politics
{  
    May 24 2009 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/times-have-changed-so-must-we-26538343.html }
So MEP Mary Lou McDonald had a baby, her second, in 2006. How inconsiderate of her. When castigated for her low level of attendance at the European Parliament, Mary Lou cited maternity leave as the reason for much of her absence during this time. Whatever one may think of McDonald's political allegiances or her opposition to the Lisbon treaty, kicking her for having a womb and using it may not be the smartest way to go about eroding her fan base in these gender-equality times. But then again ... while we're on the subject ... If we're honest, how can a woman be expected to represent her constituency adequately -- be it at council, State or European level -- if she's at home pureeing carrots and singing nursery rhymes? Surely it's a legitimate question? Women, unlike men, are legally entitled to take paid maternity leave. Many know that it's not a good career move to avail of it. But if they don't, they run the risk of being deemed bad mothers -- the worst accusation that can be thrown at a woman. Look at the backlash former French Justice Minister Rachida Dati received when she returned to work five days after having a C-section. Similarly, when Sarah Palin was back at her desk just three days after giving birth to her fifth child, her commitment to family was questioned. But most women know that having children, and taking time off to care for them, is not a good idea if you want to run with the boys in the testosterone-fuelled worlds of politics or finance. The workplace is not too good at acknowledging that some people may not only have families, but need to spend some time with them occasionally. If I had a euro for every time a mother complained to me that she had no choice but to take a back seat work-wise when the kids were born, I would be able to open my own crèche. You see, the hard truth is that children -- and family life as a whole -- need attention, and since the Victorians introduced the ideal of female "domesticity" women have been largely relegated to the private sphere to perform these jobs. Yes, times have changed, more and more women now work outside the home, but unfortunately we have failed to revamp our basic idea of how society is structured to coincide with this change. We still believe, at a fundamental level, that the man works and the woman stays home. It's enshrined in the Constitution, for God's sake, and no-one seems bothered enough to change it because at an unconscious level (and, for some traditionalists, a conscious one) we still believe that's the way things should be. Don't God, Nature and the Church say so? This may go some way to explaining our bloody awful gender balance in Irish politics, recently highlighted by a worldwide poll ranking female representation in national politics. We're a dismal 88th, down from 64th in 2004. Talk about a backlash. Kazakhstan polls better for gender equality in politics than Ireland, as do Bolivia, Sudan and Cambodia. So why do women avoid political life in Ireland? They didn't in the 19th century, when the Ladies' Land League was the most powerful political force in the land. And most of those women had husbands and families. Today the pay's improved a lot, you're not likely to be thrown in jail and the fringe benefits are plentiful. There's even a pension guaranteed. The political parties say it's not their fault, there's a lack of female political candidates to start off with. It's still touted in many quarters that women don't really like to get involved in the rough and tumble of political life. It's a rare few who have the drive, the ambition and the thick skin needed to face the political world. Not only their actions but their looks, hair, clothes and marital status are considered suitable for public debate. But this doesn't explain how other countries manage a more equitable distribution of power. Surely Irish women aren't so different from their sisters in Norway or France? But perhaps instead of wondering what is different about Irish women, we should be asking ourselves: "What is it about Irish society?" Or: "What is it about Irish men?" After all, they're the ones effectively running the system. In the main they are the ones who decide whether they should keep the old boys' network intact and, for example, put up Shay Brennan to run for election instead of the arguably better qualified Maria Corrigan. So, do the boys have a slight bias when it comes to accepting women as political leaders? Or, indeed, leaders of any kind? Are they deliberately resisting a basic change in the way the work/home balance is structured in Ireland? Are they -- let's be blunt about this -- male chauvinists who still believe that men are more suited to the public sphere than women? Some years ago, the European Commission published a report that led to the headline: "Irish and Italians 'are the sexists of Europe'." Just over half the respondents in both these countries questioned by researchers said that they had less confidence in women doing jobs than men. In Ireland, the traditional view of men as breadwinners and women as homemakers was more prevalent than in most other European countries. And a recent Eurobarometer poll revealed that most Europeans believe that men still dominate politics and women are needed to bring a different perspective. But ask many Irish women who have an interest in politics why they aren't better represented from local to international level, and one of the most frequent answers you'll receive is that they just haven't got the time. Even if they do, men still seem to dominate. Not that they don't have the interest, the intelligence, the ambition or the desire to become involved: it's that our society is still working to the old model that applied when women didn't even have the right to vote. Political life in Ireland still runs on the assumption that there's a little woman working full time at home. One should never underestimate the power of patriarchy, and in particular the way it can increase in times of economic recession. But this is not a case of, "Oh, those bloody feminists are whinging again," and we have to stop assuming that it is. When women are excluded from public life, all of society suffers. It's already been acknowledged that an overload of testosterone was responsible for some of the more foolhardy decisions made on Wall Street. Studies also show that when women exceed 15 per cent in the legislature -- hardly a dominant position -- there are clear differences in parliamentary policy agenda. What are sometimes contemptuously called "women's issues" -- violence against women, life/home balance, care of children and maternity leave -- are addressed in a way that is of benefit to all of society. So should we have a quota system to get more women represented in politics? Though I disagree on principle in appointing someone purely because of their sex, it seems to be already a practice which exists -- unofficially, of course -- for the men. What really needs to change is our basic view of society. It's time we stopped giving lip service to equality and actually changed the way society is run to reflect these ideals. A constitutional change that gives equal weight to the work of both men and women in the home, and also as parents (nowhere is the role of father mentioned), would be a start, as would the introduction of compulsory, paid paternity leave. We need a more equitable share of public and private work between men and women. Because division of labour just isn't working. Carol Hunt is going to be running/walking/crawling in Monday week's mini marathon in aid of the Dublin Rape Crisis Centre (DRCC). If you would like to support her, then please visit www.mycharity.ie, or, alternatively, call the DRCC on (1800) 778-888 
