politics
{ Maeve Dineen 
    May 04 2009 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/new-politicians-have-no-idea-how-world-works-26533301.html }
LAST year, a friend of mine who is a career guidance teacher asked me to talk to one of her Leaving Cert classes about my job. Not surprisingly, there was a moment when I felt their attention wander, so I asked the boys about their own career plans. About three-quarters wanted to go into business or finance -- this was when it was still considered cool to say you were a banker. Trawling the room in a desperate search for a spark of artistic yearning, public-service ethos or scientific curiosity, I asked the rest where their ambitions lay. One put his hand up eagerly. What was his chosen profession? Artist? Engineer? Sports star? No, he wanted to be a politician. When I asked what he would do before he went into politics, he said he would probably 'do Arts', adding swiftly that it didn't really matter as he was from a strong political family and politics was in his blood. In front of me was the new breed of career politician and not just someone looking for a career in politics. Career bankers and career politicians are receiving a lot of criticism and rightly so. These people regard the job as a calling or a vocation and their main aim in life is to advance up the political or banking pole at whatever cost. Political commentator Peter Oborne, in his book 'The Triumph of The Political Class', argues that the emergence of politics as a career has been made possible by the numerous quasi-political institutions, think-tanks and consultancies. This has increased the job opportunities for would-be politicians; therefore, they never have to work in the 'real world'. But Oborne points out that this is producing an in-bred class that lacks proper connections to the outside world. Many have no idea how the real world operates, have never run a business or worked in a large commercial institution. Many have never even managed a budget or have had to make a hard moral decision on their own. Instead they choose to operate in a political bubble. Remember, the politicians have been elected to decide the direction of the country, including the economy. The rise in politics itself as a profession is a relatively new phenomenon, mainly seen in mature democracies, especially Britain and America. A study carried out by 'The Economist' magazine showed that different countries, because of their history, cultural preferences or stage in development, seem to favour particular professions in their politicians. It's not surprising that in many democracies lawyers dominate. Their ability to argue from first principles and haggle over words means they transfer well to the political stage. After lawyers, the second most common 'profession' is businessmen; but few leaders have managed to bring the toughness of decision making to political office. In China, where spending on infrastructure is colossal, there is a strong presence of engineer-politicians. But an engineer's long-term way of thinking is not always easily transferred to their role in political office. As expected, Africa is full of presidents who won power as leaders of military coups; Egypt likes academics; South Korea favours civil servants; and Brazil has a penchant for doctors among their leaders. At home, the Dail is peppered with career politicians -- the Taoiseach and the Tanaiste being the most obvious examples. But by and large, it is full of solicitors, teachers and publicans, which means we have a good legal system, good schools and world-famous pubs. What about our financial services industry? There is a noticeable lack of business acumen in the Dail, which is clearly seen in some of the ill-informed discourse and debate that routinely comes out of Government Buildings. Whether for good or evil, politics is becoming its own profession and it's exciting enough to have caught the attention of at least one bright young student. When I asked him what was it about political life that attracted him most, he said he had always had an interest in it. A big salary and status are known attributes of political power and, let's face it, power is always interesting. 
