politics
{ Emily Hourican 
    March 25 2012 03:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/come-back-liz-all-is-forgiven-26836466.html }
She's exactly the type of politician we need right now -- gutsy, energetic, focused -- so practical and committed she even conducted interviews in her underwear. But with the collapse of her party, the PDs, Liz O'Donnell exited politics in 2007. Separated from her husband, and in a new relationship, she says she's enjoying being out of public life, and working in consultancy and advocacy. Emily Hourican reports Politics is a tough game for women. It's a world obsessed by looks, where personal remarks can be dressed up as fair comment and every aspect of appearance and personality are up for grabs. The hours are disastrous to families, especially where children are small and husbands also busy, and finally, rejection, when it comes, is overwhelming and, inevitably, personal. "It's like watching a reality TV show, except that it's your life. It is a very public undoing, quite traumatic," says Liz O'Donnell, former deputy leader of the PDs and Minister of State at the Department of Foreign Affairs about her own departure after 15 years, following the 2007 election in which the PDs were wiped out and she lost her seat in Dublin South on the sixth count. Since then, and despite being one of the most successful Irish women politicians ever, she has been adamant there will be no return, that she is enjoying life outside the arena. She is busy, with public affairs consultancy and advocacy, as well as a documentary on overseas aid, Far Away and Up Close, broadcast last year on RTE, and claims not to miss the world of politics at all. However, she has also been vocal -- to the 2009 Oireachtas report on Women's Participation in Politics, as well as elsewhere -- that "politics in Ireland is tailor-made for men who have the support of wives". A two-person job, essentially, but where the public face is a man's, with unfailing domestic back-up. Liz entered politics inspired by what she learned during her years at home as the mother of small children. Those endless days -- she was often still in her dressing-gown at noon, she once told Jonathan Philbin Bowman -- spent on the relentless monotony of housework and childcare politicised her in a way that her undergraduate years as a law student in Trinity had not. "I realised that society had not tackled the duality between career and family, and I started to realise there was a lot of unfinished business in relation to equality," she said, later adding, "some people would not even see me as a feminist. But it's part of my political personality". By the time she left, nothing had changed. Three years later, Olwyn Enright, Fine Gael TD, chose not to contend the next general election, citing the pressures of juggling family life and career, and indirectly sparking off a debate about quotas for female representation. Clearly, the wielding of political power is still primarily something for men to do; the personal compromises and concessions that it requires are more suited to the kind of set-up they still largely enjoy. Liz O'Donnell's politicisation came about when, after having children, she opted to leave her well-paid legal job, managing the litigation department of McCann FitzGerald, and stay at home to raise them. Her husband, Michael Carson, now a senior counsel, was rapidly establishing himself on the legal circuit, and so, she decided, "on the basis of where our careers were at, at that time". Nevertheless, she found it "isolating ... there was no shortage of work at home, but I found it back-breaking really. My brain was going to sponge and I was too tired to go out in the evening ... too tired even to read". This, from a woman who left London where she was working for AIB in Croydon, and greatly enjoying the freedom that went with being fresh out of school and earning her own money, in order to come home and study law, aged 21, because she felt the need for intellectual stimulation. O'Donnell must have been quite a wow in Trinity in 1977. A little older than the rest of her law class, she describes herself as, "a totally cool character, dressed in thigh-high red leather boots and tight elephant-cord orange jeans. My hair was short, a la Annie Lennox. I looked like someone with a past and wore make-up ... " She later confessed to being momentarily intimidated by the other first-year students; younger but intellectually precocious, "most were from the private Dublin schools and seemed to move in a different circle of confidence and privilege", but threw it off quickly, soon gathering around her a gang of friends from the rather vintage year of 1977. Brian Lenihan, who she describes as "a sparkling intelligence" was a scholar, Nick Mulcahy, publisher of Business Plus, was a contemporary, along with a host of other students who went on to become, variously, senior counsels, senior partners in McCann FitzGerald, leading libel and family lawyers. It was a fair distance to travel for a girl who grew up, first in the north inner city of Dublin -- her father worked for Guinness and had been a champion sprinter as well as playing senior hurling for Dublin -- and then Limerick, where she went to the Salesian Convent in Fernbank. The middle of three children, she was, in her own words, a "messer ... a bright girl who did little work and showed no ambition", but became the first of her family to go to college. Trinity is where she laid the foundations for her intellectual confidence -- her innate self-worth came earlier, courtesy of a highly supportive family -- and also where she established herself as full of initiative and guts, working part-time and every holiday to supplement the allowance given by her parents, particularly once her father retired early from a heart attack. She later recalled "grim winters spent shivering and fully clothed in bed", cycling a bag of coal down the canal during the fuel strike of 1979, living on porridge and tinned Carnation milk, summers spent working in Dutch bulb farms to pay off debts, and so many loans from AIB that, by the time she graduated, she could joke that she was "wholly owned" by them. Term-time she worked at a secretarial post, then in her final year waitressed at the Unicorn, where she made good money in tips, and great contacts among the high-profile lunch crowd. In a way, those student years forged the identity of Liz O'Donnell as poster-girl for the PDs -- bright, but without a background of privilege; determined and self-reliant; successful through her own abilities. Once married, she and Michael Carson quickly became pretty well-off, by 1996 they moved into a handsome Victorian house in Dartry with their two children, but the early achievements were driven by personality alone. On leaving college she worked for Vincent Browne, selling ads for The Magill Book of Irish Politics, then for Noel Pearson Productions, before moving to McCann FitzGerald solicitors. And yet, when first approached by Mary Harney in the early Nineties to run in local government elections for the PDs, her first reaction was to say "No way!" By then, Liz was involved with the Woman's Political Association, where she was appointed vice-chairperson almost immediately, and Harney pitched it to her that "I cannot see why you are spending all this energy and time in a voluntary organisation", as Liz later explained, adding that she found this "unanswerable". Even so, her first instinct was to turn away the opportunity. As she explained it to the 2009 Oireachtas report on Women's Participation in Politics, "I would not have crossed the bridge into politics unless I had been persuaded and facilitated by ... Deputy Mary Harney. When I was approached by Deputy Harney to think about entering politics, I thought immediately I could not possibly do that. I had never known a politician. There is nobody involved in politics in my family ... I was a highly educated adult and had two small children. I should have felt competent and confident to do that. However, politics is a daunting, frightening sort of theatre." But Liz had something to say, a series of battles to fight, initially around issues of equality and gender balance, though later these broadened out to general accountability, and so she joined. She successfully contested, first, the local elections in 1991, then, a year later, won a seat in the surprise general election of 1992, and entered the 27th Dail in opposition, where she was appointed justice spokesperson for the PDs. Her talent for media was immediately apparent -- not only was she highly photogenic, she was also a safe pair of hands, apparently unflusterable, and, importantly, well-liked by journalists, particularly male ones, for her approachability and ready availability, and because she took pains to charm them. Whether female journalists were ever as smitten is uncertain; in a 1998 interview, Brenda Power found her to be "entirely devoid of humour, anecdote, empathy, insight or depth". However, those who know her well insist that underneath the poised exterior, she is highly sociable and gregarious. There is a deep irony in the notion that Liz O'Donnell entered politics motivated by the lack of equality for women, and mothers in particular, and that in so doing had to spend so much time apart from her own small children. But it's an irony she was never blind to, telling Jonathan Philbin Bowman in 1995 that, should the personal toll of politics become too great, she would leave in a flash; "at the end of the day, when you get to heaven or hell, they're not going to ask you about how many bills you had amended. It'll be: 'Were you good to your kids?'" It's an admirably perceptive statement, but of course, it isn't given to most of us to understand when enough has become too much, until after the fact. Only the wisdom of hindsight allows that. However, as early as 1994, Liz was equally clear that "it's not easy to combine politics and family life. I tend to be particularly ruthless about protecting my weekends", adding, "personally speaking, I could not see myself spending the rest of my life in the Dail." It's something she echoed in a later interview: "There is a perception politics should suck the blood out of you, but I don't intend to be a wreck at 50." And maybe the seeds of her going were already laid in that perspicacity; certainly it seems as if she had made peace with the idea that the job wasn't worth sacrificing all. For many media commentators, O'Donnell was a classic case of "the right woman at the right time". She herself puts it more simply: "I joined a party in which there was a space for me." And, despite her obvious sophistication, it turned out that she had an ability to speak directly, believably, to ordinary people; something that was in short supply in a party where intellect was very obvious, and populism less so. She soon showed she had guts and brains, first over the Fr Brendan Smyth affair, quizzing John Bruton about the letters from the victims, (for which she claims to have received "excrement in the post and hate-mail that would stop a clock"), later by challenging a proposal to restrict TDs from making statements that could be defamatory. O'Donnell pointed out, quite rightly, that the Dail's role was as a chamber of inquiry, and that statements of this type had led to the beef tribunal. She also confronted a peculiar editorial in the Irish Times, around the time Mary Harney took over the leadership, about the PDs being in danger of becoming "a womanly party". O'Donnell rightly took issue with this strange choice of adjective, penning a rather magnificent letter pointing out that they were the only party to have 50:50 representation, and asking, fatally, was that not the aim? There is an argument to be made that it is precisely her "womanly" qualities that made O'Donnell so successful in negotiating the Good Friday Agreement. Appointed Minister of State at the Department of Foreign Affairs -- making her one of only 11 women to serve at Cabinet level -- she played a leading role in these. Unencumbered by any strident nationalist views, and willing to be agreeable, she acquitted herself most ably, dealing well with all sides and smoothing the edges of what was frequently a fraught process. John Taylor, now Lord Kilclooney, referred to her, humorously, as "Mrs Carson", while she and Mo Mowlam did a bit of bonding and were reputed to get on very well together. They may have made a physically contrasting picture -- the glamorous O'Donnell alongside a gloriously dowdy Mowlam -- but their approach was very similar. They both "came to it without baggage", O'Donnell said. "There was a common purpose to make this blinking thing work... we became firm friends." There have been embarrassing moments over the years too, sometimes because she couldn't repress her sense of humour and the ridiculous -- such as the joke during Dail questions about hoping to waltz with Prince Charles during his visit to Ireland; or the rather gushing comments about President Obama during his recent visit, "what a beautiful man. He's gorgeous, he walks like a Kenyan -- they have such elegant body movement ... " -- though others have been more serious. Since leaving politics, O'Donnell has displayed a certain amount of naivety about her enduring power to fascinate. Such as her astonishment over the reaction to her revelations about doing interviews in her underwear while still in the job. "Gone are the sleepless nights fretting about an early call from Morning Ireland, when interviews were often, I can now reveal, done in my underwear," she wrote in the Sunday Tribune. Mortified by the ensuing media storm, she explained that she had been asked, at short notice, to fill in for Nuala O Faolain who was then very ill in New York, and had intended a light-hearted piece about the joys of being out of politics; "I should have said pyjamas, not underwear!" she humorously lamented. However, it's hard to grudge her the downtime. Politics is, as she well knows, a dirty business for women -- "in politics, people have higher expectations of a woman, and I will just have to rise to it", she said shortly after being first elected, but the real problem of course is the expectations women have of themselves. The perfect wife and mother who is also the perfect career woman. It's barely possible at the best of times, and such are the physical demands of Dail Eireann -- the hours, the lack of understanding around family life, the expectation that every TD has a support-network in place to pick up the slack -- that there, it quickly becomes impossible. "I'm sure he would prefer if I wasn't involved in politics," Liz once said of her husband. "I'm sure if you asked any spouse of a politician, they'd say the same. At the time I was elected, he said it was grounds for annulment." It was, of course, a joke. Since retiring from politics, Liz has separated from Michael Carson and is currently dating John White, a managing partner in Beauchamps Solicitors. It seems beyond doubt that there will now be gender quotas imposed so as to even up the score of men and women in public life. The question is, how many women will put themselves forward? Had she wanted it, Liz O'Donnell could surely have had a second act in political life. She didn't want it -- that much seems clear from her undisguised pleasure at being out of the game. Contacted about an interview for this piece, she declined, on the grounds that it might fuel speculation that she plans to return. Now 55, she has done the state some service, and given perhaps more than she bargained for. The next chapter is hers. Sunday Indo Living 
