politics
{ Eilis O'Hanlon 
    October 25 2014 09:10 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/editorial/personal-or-political-it-is-exactly-the-same-story-30693168.html }
The important question isn't: Is the Mairia Cahill case being politicised? It should be: Given all that we know, how could the Mairia Cahill case not be politicised?  It's hard to think of anything more political than the leader of what is currently the second largest party in the State being implicated in the cover-up both of sexual abuse allegations and of an investigation of those same allegations by paramilitaries against the will of the victim. For others to raise this issue invariably risks them being hit with the accusation of making political capital at the expense of their opponents, but what are they supposed to do instead? Ignore it? Congratulate Gerry on having dodged another bullet? To suggest that Fine Gael, Labour, Fianna Fail and others are only doing so in order to snatch votes from the poor innocent hands of Sinn Fein is even more ridiculous. Not least because there is not a single shred of evidence that hardcore SF supporters give a damn what the party does in pursuit of its goals, or what Gerry Adams may have done in the past to get the republican movement to this point. His arrest earlier this year for questioning over the 1972 murder of Jean McConville caused barely a ripple in support. Nor did the question marks raised over Adams's less than transparent responses to the abuse carried out by his brother Liam. Adams insisted that he had no contact with his brother for over a decade - until it was uncovered that he did. Adams insisted that he moved to have Liam expelled from SF - though there is no evidence that he ever did. Adams insisted that he warned others that his brother should not work with children - even as he went on working with children, both in Belfast and in Co. Louth. All these questions, as Fintan O'Toole pointed out with some force last week, have still not been answered satisfactorily. The party, O'Toole added bluntly in an interview on Today FM, has an "abysmal" record on child protection. If SF supporters can stomach that, why should they suddenly care about this either? The bar of morality is set on a much lower rung by SF supporters. It's not that difficult to clear it. Equally nonsensical is the idea that SF's political opponents are only raising the Mairia Cahill scandal as an issue in the hope that any support which did leech from SF would flow back in their direction as a result. Only a buffoon would seriously expect that to happen. When SF made a hames of its policy on water charges in the run up to the recent Dublin South West by-election, Fine Gael did not benefit. Nor did Fianna Fail. Why would they have done? The votes went instead to the Anti-Austerity Alliance, as anyone with an ounce of wit would have expected. The same in this case. Even if SF supporters do surprise us all by suddenly discovering a backbone, deserting the party in droves in reaction to how the republican movement is treating Mairia, their support would go to other left-wing parties and independents, so the net benefit to the centrist parties would be exactly the same. Charges of electioneering aside, though, what really makes the accusation that Mairia is being "used" by politicians so insulting is the implicit suggestion that she can't be trusted to make that call for herself. That somehow this intelligent, capable woman wouldn't know when she was being manipulated. As if she just can't tell the difference between help and exploitation. Have no fear. She knows what being used feels like. This is a woman who, for years, had seriously intimidating people telling her what she could and could not do; what she could and could not say; who she could and could not talk to. Now others, under a nauseating cover of fake concern for her welfare, are still trying to control her, warning her off from consorting with unionists or FF, just as their predecessors warned her off from talking to the police. Because they know better. But they don't. Mairia has been telling her story to many different people behind the scenes for a number of years. Now that she is free to waive her anonymity, she has gone about things in exactly the same non-discriminatory way, seeking the support of public representatives on all sides of the political spectrum, left to right, nationalist to unionist. Abhorrence at what was done to her has united opinion across the political spectrum. In many ways, there is nothing less party political. An alliance like that doesn't just come into existence by itself. At least have the decency to credit the woman who single-handedly built that guild of good will with knowing what she's doing. She's aware of the risks and the benefits. Instead Mairia's political astuteness has been turned against her by critics who contend that she is too clever, too capable, all condescending accusations that formidable women have become familiar with down the years. What they really mean is: how dare she be a match for us? It certainly wasn't a surprise to me. Mairia is political to her fingertips. She understands politics; she grew up with politics; she has usually joined the dots on the political implications of every situation while others are still fumbling around for a pencil. It's hard to keep up with her. That should not be used to denigrate her. It ought, instead, to be a cause for celebration, because, without that sharp intellectual energy, she wouldn't have got anywhere. She'd still be on her own. The one party which chooses to snipe at her for running what they see as an overtly political campaign is Sinn Fein, ironically the most political of them all, and that's only because she's a pain in their proverbial butt right now and they don't know how to handle her, presumably because the concept of admitting that she was indeed subjected to a brutal IRA investigation, and that she shouldn't have been, and that they're sorry for it, remains foreign to them. Still they choose to posture as if it's everyone else who is out of step, not them, inwardly seething because others will not get them off the hook by sharing the blame for the ugly mess they alone created. It seems particularly callous to attack Mairia Cahill for seeking support from others who might be willing to offer it when they themselves don't offer her any support at all. It's not a choice, after all, between this type of support on the one hand and that type of support on the other. There's only a choice between the support which she has been offered - or nothing. And she's had her fill of nothing. It was SF who ultimately drove her into the arms of their "enemies", to borrow a bellicose word from Gerry Adams last week, by opting to attack her rather than formulating a more subtle strategy to deal with her questions. In so doing, they caused some disturbing damage to the fabric of civilised discourse. Many women in particular, caught between the competing demands of their feminism and their republicanism, decided that the auld women's rights stuff would have to be suspended temporarily in order to defend a few Belfast hard men who felt threatened by a woman telling the truth. Many of these SF ladies last week were like those women who fall in love with serial killers on Death Row. Rape culture, meanwhile, has been running rampant online in Ireland in a way which must be seriously disturbing to anyone who hoped that neanderthal attitudes about respectable men falling prey to the sexual wiles of manipulative young girls were a thing of the past. Far worse than politicising the case of Mairia is harnessing that machismo in a political cause and not expecting it to have unpleasant consequences. If her story has been politicised in a way some find uncomfortable, a simple solution exists. That is to stop politicising it further by self-pityingly presenting it as an unfair assault on republicanism itself. To depoliticise it instead by seeing it for what it was. One woman's fight to be heard after being silenced. It's only an attack on SF because they're the ones still doing the silencing. Sunday Independent 
