politics
{ Brian Dowling 
    January 25 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/corruption-has-poisoned-public-confidence-in-politics-26005540.html }
IT IS a strange twist of fate that Ray Burke should be jailed at the very time when controversy rages over the need to assert and defend the principle that criminality cannot be part of democratic politics. Burke's crime was to cheat the tax system. It didn't stop there. The Flood Tribunal also found that he accepted corrupt payments during his political career as a TD and Minister. That career was all but dead in 1994 until Bertie Ahern became the leader of Fianna Fail and brought him back to the epicentre of political decision making. He became spokesman for foreign affairs and when Fianna Fail returned to power in June 1997 he was rewarded with that powerful and important ministry, at a crucial time in the Northern peace process. It put him face to face with the Sinn Fein leadership. Burke detested all that they and the IRA stood for. It is now over ten years since the first IRA ceasefire, the rise of Bertie Ahern and the political resurrection of Burke. Huge changes have taken place and yet observers could be forgiven for thinking that the more some things change, the more they stay the same. Today as he spends his first full day in prison Ray Burke will hear the news bulletins on the Taoiseach's meeting with the Sinn Fein leadership. The same political leadership he faced as opposition spokesman and then Minister. The democratic process, for all its shortcomings, including the long-drawn out tribunal proceedings, has dealt with Burke. It is still struggling to deal with the unfinished business of criminality and the republican movement, in part because of the damage inflicted on politics by Burke and others. During all the years he accepted corrupt payments and defrauded the Revenue Commissioners, it is doubtful that Ray Burke ever considered that he was committing "a crime". If anything, he believed that they money he stashed away was in some perverse way, a legitimate income. Burke clearly saw politics and political office as a vehicle to be used towards his personal enrichment. Other colleagues, like Charles Haughey also believed public office could also go hand in hand with personal gain and that taxes were for "the little people". Likewise, Michael Lowry displayed a similar attitude to tax laws. Their activities were an open challenge to the democratic system and albeit belatedly, that system finally dealt with them through tribunals and tax laws. What they did, however greedy, hypocritical and reprehensible, pales by comparison to the challenge to democratic beliefs now posed by Sinn Fein and their colleagues in the IRA. However, there is no doubt that none of them, or for that matter any of the other politicians embroiled in tribunals, would have any difficulty with the concept that a kangaroo court decision to shot a woman in the head was a crime or that the slaying of Detective Jerry McCabe during a robbery was a crime. What Burke, Haughey and others did showed little more than contempt for the institutions and laws of the State. In contrast, the attitude of Sinn Fein and the IRA is far more profound and fundamental. They seek to challenge the very integrity of the State itself, the inalienable right of its citizens to frame laws that define what they consider to be crimes. From the moment he appointed Ray Burke to his frontbench and to his first Cabinet in 1997 Bertie Ahern was inviting trouble. It was only a matter of time. During the turbulent years of this first government the Taoiseach defended his elevation of Burke on the grounds that he trusted him. Reluctantly, and it was very reluctantly, Bertie Ahern was forced to allow the democratic process take its course with the establishment of the Flood Tribunal. He has since learned the extent to which his trust in Burke was misplaced and abused. We now knows that Burke lied to him, to his Fianna Fail colleagues, to the public, to the Dail, to the tribunal and to the tax authorities. Mr Ahern has also placed a huge amount of personal trust in the Sinn Fein leadership and what appeared to be their willingness to make the transition from paramilitarism to purely democratic politics. The Taoiseach and his government ministers believe that trust has been abused and misplaced. Even Mr Ahern knows there comes a time when straight answers have to be given to straight questions. That is the only way to restore trust. For over a decade the State, in its various guises, has struggled to deal with rich and powerful individuals who believed themselves to be so untouchable that they did not have to give straight answers. The corrupt deals and the off-shore scams have helped to poison public confidence in the political system. For some people that has meant looking for alternatives and Sinn Fein has eagerly exploited such fertile political ground. When those in political leadership at the Cabinet table, were so willing to give the two-fingers to the laws of the land it inevitably lowers the threshold of political values. Small wonder, then, that even when faced with huge political pressures the Sinn Fein leadership still feels it can argue that the brutal McConville and McCabe killings were not crimes. The public can only hope that the Taoiseach will continue to insist that republicans provide straight answers on their attitude to criminality and politics. 
