politics
{ John Bruton 
    July 02 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/danger-of-the-gun-re-entering-politics-here-26079024.html }
IN AN article last week Gerry Adams complained about "senior representatives" of all the main parties in the South campaigning against Sinn Fein in the recent Westminster elections, and went on to say that other nationalist parties, including SDLP, were using the decommissioning issue in a "futile attempt to arrest the growth of Irish Republicanism." The real issue here is a simple one. Who runs the "republican movement?" Is it the politicians, like Gerry Adams, or is it the army? In a normal democracy, politicians give order to soldiers. In the Sinn Fein/IRA axis, it is becoming increasingly clear that it is the IRA which is in ultimate charge. Remember that Sinn Fein solemnly promised, on Good Friday, two and a quarter years ago to use "any influence they may have" to achieve the decommissioning of "all paramilitary arms within two years following referendums North and South on the Agreement." If Sinn Fein was in charge of the republican movement, and if it was telling the truth when it gave that commitment, all IRA weapons should have been decommissioned by 22nd May of this year. The real voice of the republican movement is not Sinn Fein, but the IRA. What the IRA says matters. An insight into true republican thinking was given in a little reported speech, four months ago, in South Armagh by veteran republican by Brian Keenan. Contemplating the breakdown of the Good Friday Agreement, he said that republicans should not fear the collapse of this "phase of the revolution." Violence and political negotiations were both legitimate "forms of revolution and both have to be prosecuted to the utmost." Responding to demands that the IRA say its war is over, Brian Keenan said "the revolution can never be over until we have British imperialism where it belongs in the dustbin of history." These words of Brian Keenan explain why the IRA has no intention of giving up the possibility of using weapons again. They also show why the IRA will not say that any of its ceasefires are permanent. The IRA will not say that the war is over. Reading between the lines of Gerry Adams' press article last week, one can see that his opinion is not completely different from Keenan's, although his phraseology is more subtle. He says that the length of the "IRA cessations" shows the IRA is prepared to embrace the "possibility" of building what it calls "real politics". Only a "possibility"! "Real politics" has not yet arrived, according to Gerry Adams, despite Sinn Fein's electoral gains! Will it ever arrive? Will the IRA always need their guns? Gerry Adams goes on to praise what he calls the "continued silence of IRA guns during their cessations". The IRA guns have not been completely silent during the cessations. They have not been directed against security forces, that is all. In 1999, two years into the present cessation, an IRA team bought around 200 hand guns and sub-machine guns in Florida and sent them by post to addresses in the Republic. Meanwhile only some of the IRA's arms dumps have been inspected by Mr Ahtisaari and Mr Ramaphosa. And as opponents of a decommissioning precondition correctly point out, as long as the IRA preserves its military structures it can re-arm at any time. The world arms market would be more than happy to supply them. Sinn Fein, thanks to the peace process, is now a serious player in Southern politics. They hope to play a pivotal role in the next Dail. But, unlike their political competitors here, they are not a truly independent political party. They are the political side of a movement with an unaccountable military side. They show no sign of disassociating themselves from the IRA. We have kept the gun out of politics in the Republic since 1927. We have gone on to introduce unprecedented transparency in politics in recent times by making the financing of political parties open to public inspection. We have a Freedom of Information Act, under which every action of Government can now be scrutinised. It is not consistent with transparency in politics for the Irish people to elect TDs belonging to a political party which is supporting and is indissolubly linked to a secret army, whose commanders are unknown, whose military structures and arsenals are intact, and which exists in defiance of our constitution. Electing a political party, to the Dail which is linked to a secret army, brings the gun back into politics. As Taoiseach, one of my priorities was the preservation of the integrity of our democracy here in the Republic. That is why I raised the awkward questions about decommissioning with republicans. Not because I believed decommissioning is an end in itself, but because, if it had begun to decommission this would have been a sign that the republican movement was no longer a revolutionary one, a sign that the option of violence had been abandoned for good, and a sign that republicans did not see the present peace process as just a "phase" in long war, but rather as a permanent structure of politics in which reconciliation based on mutual acceptance could begin. * John Bruton TD is a former Taoiseach 
