politics
{ Maurice Hayes 
    September 12 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/editorial/left-without-a-political-voice-loyalists-resort-to-violence-25965927.html }
IT is perversely symbolic of the changes that have taken place in the politics of Northern Ireland over the past decade that the first shots fired against the PSNI should have come from the guns of loyalist paramilitaries, or that the first sustained use of plastic baton rounds for four years should have been directed against rioting Orangemen. The fact is that it is now working class Protestants who are more likely to be alienated. It is unionists who, although numerically the larger community, now feel and act like a minority under threat. It is they who feel the stress of changes which they fear will further undermine their position over which they have less and less control. At one level it is a remarkable example of role reversal. At another, the events in Belfast and surrounding towns on Saturday and Sunday nights bring a sickening sense of deja vu. Not since the 1970s has such savage and sustained violence been seen on the streets. There can only be a relative sense of relief that nationalists in interface areas left them to it and refused to get drawn into a three-sided fracas. The result was a series of pitched battles between police and Protestants in what was clearly an orchestrated and pre-planned outbreak of violence, a show of strength which was triggered by, but not necessarily caused by, the decision of the Parades Commission to reroute a short stretch of a postponed Orange parade away from a nationalist area and what is a potential flashpoint on the Whiterock Road. The trouble at the weekend is not only a sharp reminder of the work that still needs to be done in the process of bringing peace, order and good government to the North, but it will come as a severe disappointment to all those who had hoped that the community had put violence behind it and was beginning to settle into a pattern in which politics, however, laboured, were seen to be preferable to war. Most people will hope that it will not take the loyalist community 30 years to come to the conclusion that violence solves nothing, producing only a spiral of reactive violence, and that politics, compromise and at least minimal co-operation and an agreement to co-exist is the only way forward. It is a sad reflection of the whirligig of Northern Ireland politics that just when republicans seemed to have learned that lesson, loyalists have forgotten it. In part it is the absence of politics that has contributed to the riots. Not that those who were out with guns, with masks with matches and cudgels were likely to be much influence by political theory. The trouble has been simmering all summer and was destined to break out. The events of the weekend were neither spontaneous nor accidental. For whatever reason the loyalist paramilitaries had decided to take on the police. The Whiterock parade was simply the occasion and not the cause. Much stems too from the fact that the loyalists do not have a political voice. The rise of the DUP, in particular, had the effect of extinguishing the PUP, the political voice of the UVF, and the UDA had already ditched the UDP. Without people like Gary McMichael and Davy Adams, and with David Irvine much reduced, militant loyalism has no political wing, no Sinn Fein to go political with, even if they wished to. They had no alternative to the gun, and it must be said little sign of any desire to decommission even when the IRA threat was latent if not yet entirely removed. These people do not feel particularly well represented by the UUP, for class reasons, but they are much too secularist to feel happy in the DUP. As a result the two political parties have little real influence over what happens on the ground and less power to stop it. They do, however, by their comments encourage the belief that violence has paid off for republicans, missing the more telling lesson from Sinn Fein's progress that politics pays even better. They also have created an atmosphere of distrust by insisting that every change required to achieve equity and fairness in the society is somehow a concession and that life for unionists is a zero sum game in which they can only be the losers. Where the unionist party politicians could have influence is in talking up the prospects of political progress rather than talking it down. The Good Friday Agreement was a reasonable compromise in which unionists secured more of their core demands than republicans, yet it has been presented by unionist politicians as a loss rather than a gain and as a triumph for Sinn Fein. There is now a danger that even if the IRA decommission unionists will produce other barriers to participation in political dialogue such is the case of the Colombia Three, which could be in the courts for months. If so they will lose the plot all together. These are difficult times for the Protestant working class. The industries they worked in have collapsed and deficiencies in the school system make them less able to take the new jobs that are available. The Shankill Road was wrecked by the planners before the Provos left their bombs in it and it is no accident that the main trouble spots of the weekend were the soulless estates housing those relocated from unionist heartlands. These are frightened insecure people who are striking out blindly in the only language they know. They need political leadership and they are not getting it. 
