politics
{ Jody Corcoran 
    February 26 2017 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/which-conservative-brand-will-the-new-leader-of-fine-gael-follow-35482888.html }
The maverick Conservative MP Enoch Powell is often quoted when a politician is at his or her end: "All political lives, unless they are cut off in midstream at a happy juncture, end in failure, because that is the nature of politics and of all human affairs." Has Enda Kenny's political life ended in failure? It is too early to say, not least because it has not yet ended. The late Conor Cruise O'Brien's observation on Charles Haughey is relevant: "If I saw Mr Haughey buried at midnight at a crossroads, with a stake driven through his heart - politically speaking - I should continue to wear a clove of garlic round my neck, just in case."  This time, it really does appear as though the end is nigh. Well, in three months. Perhaps Kenny's political life is best summed up, to paraphrase Beckett, that he has failed better than others, which includes half his 13 predecessors as Taoiseach - no mean achievement, but not a great one either. *** Powell was best known for his infamous 'Rivers of Blood' speech in 1968, which pointedly criticised immigration into Britain from Commonwealth nations. The main political issue addressed by the speech was not immigration as such, but the introduction by the Labour Ggnation on grounds of race in certain areas of British life, particularly housing, where many local authorities had been refusing to provide houses for immigrant families until they had lived in the country for a certain number of years. The findings of a Kantar Millward Brown opinion poll, published elsewhere in this newspaper today, generally find that the immigration issue raised in such incendiary fashion by Powell, and which led to his immediate sacking by prime minister Edward Heath, has not gained much traction here as it has elsewhere in Europe and the United States, as represented by the election of Donald Trump. Perhaps that is a consequence of the relatively small numbers of immigrants coming here. The opinion poll finds broad acknowledgement that a more cosmopolitan society leads to a better society and broad consensus that immigrants here make a positive contribution to the economy. And so say all of us. *** A fascinating analysis of Trump's controversial chief strategist, Stephen Bannon - he of Irish extraction - is published in a recent edition of the US digital magazine Quartz. Bannon's political influence is said to be Edmund Burke, the influential 18th-century Irish political thinker, regarded to be the father of modern conservatism, whom Bannon occasionally references. In Reflections on the Revolution in France, Burke presents his view that the basis of a successful society should not be abstract notions like human rights, social justice or equality, which is a view not uncommon in Fine Gael. Rather, he believed, societies work best when traditions (privilege?) that have been shown to work are passed from generation to generation. The baby boomers, Bannon said in a recent lecture, failed to live up to that Burkean responsibility by abandoning the tried-and-true values of their parents (nationalism, modesty, patriarchy, religion) in favour of new abstractions (pluralism, sexuality, egalitarianism, secularism). For both  Burke and Bannon, failure to pass the torch results  in social chaos. *** The aforementioned Cruiser, of course, wrote a brilliant, although unorthodox, biography of Burke in 1992 - The Great Melody - having brooded on the statesman, political thinker, orator, and ardent campaigner for decades. The Cruiser also considered Powell not a racist in a technical sense, as one who believes in the natural inferiority of some races to others and in the justice of legal and social arrangements designed to register that inferiority, but took him to be a racist in the more ordinary sense, as a person who does not like  to have to associate, on a footing of equality, with persons belonging to a race different from his own. "Edmund Burke was not like that," Dr Cruise O'Brien wrote in 1989. Burke's activity as a parliamentarian and political writer embraced many concerns, prominent among which were the problems of British rule overseas, including Ireland. His name was linked most strongly to a critique of the French Revolution. He was, however, more notable as a pundit than an executive politician. That said, in my view he did not bequeath a straightforward legacy to any political party or ideological brand  of thought, though plenty have tried to appropriate him either wholly or in  part, not least the likes of Stephen Bannon. *** At the Conservative Political Action Conference in the US last week, Bannon took a run through the various brands of conservatism to which Trump has extended his dubious appeal: "populist", "limited-government conservative", "libertarian" or "economic nationalist". It will be interesting, indeed, to see which conservative brand of thought the new leader of Fine Gael will follow, now that the torch is to be passed. Young Simon Harris, at 30, would be the first to quote Burke that "the arrogance of age must submit to be taught by youth". Donald Trump is 70. Harris also raises a time-old question, however. Is a mere lad of 30 too young to lead a country? Leo Varadkar is 38 and Simon Coveney will be almost 45 when Enda Kenny has departed. For the first time, it would seem I will find myself to be older than a Taoiseach, which is a disconcerting realisation. *** This raises an interesting question all the same. There is compelling evidence that generations carry with them the imprint of early political experiences.  A recent paper by two Columbia University researchers identified five main generations of US presidential voters, each shaped by political events during their formative years: New Deal Democrats, Eisenhower Republicans, Baby Boomers, Reagan Conservatives and Millennials.  So, which political events have shaped the conservative views of Leo and the two Simons?  Answers on a postcard, please. Sunday Independent 
