politics
{ Mandy Johnston 
    February 25 2017 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/mandy-johnston/fianna-fails-balancing-act-kill-fgs-post-enda-bounce-without-triggering-an-election-just-yet-35481252.html }
'Victorious warriors win first and then go to war" - Sun Tzu. Twenty years ago, back in February 1997 before the boom began, Fianna Fáil was putting the final touches to its 'People before Politics' general election campaign. A power-hungry party frontbench applied a relentless assault to remove John Bruton as Taoiseach to get into government.  Armed with detailed politically popular policies, Fianna Fáil was chomping at the bit to oust the incumbent 'Rainbow Coalition' made up of Fine Gael, the Labour Party and Democratic Left. The onslaught was uncompromising. Eventually Mr Bruton caved to their pressure and called a general election before he should have - the rest, as they say, is history. Twenty years on, the political scenario couldn't be more diametric in its difference. Having only relatively recently survived a near-death political experience, Fianna Fáil in opposition does not want or need an election just yet. More importantly, the party doesn't want power just yet either. Its preference is to control the timetable of the next election to maximise its own seat potential - that objective is about to be seriously tested. Micheál Martin may soon have to start channelling Mel Gibson in the much-parodied scene from 'Braveheart' at the Battle of Stirling Bridge to ensure that Fianna Fáil's political fate remains in its own hands. William Wallace is depicted galloping before his troops and then urging them to wait for the optimum time to attack their enemy when it is at its weakest moment, imploring: "Hold, hold, hold!" Sound familiar? Currently skirting respectable opinion poll results in the mid-thirties, many of the newer representatives in the Fianna Fáil parliamentary party must grapple with a new phenomenon - popularity. Success, however, can bring its own problems and for Fianna Fáil, principally, it is political pressure. With the party's reputational rehabilitation in the ascendancy and with chronic obvious divisions within Government, calls have already commenced for Fianna Fáil to "step up to the plate". Fine Gael's leadership battle will trundle on until the shamrock sprouts in Washington DC. Claims of cynical self-interest on Fianna Fáils's part will grow more plentiful than high-fives on the Taoiseach's goodbye merry-go-round. Yes, Fianna Fáil TDs can expect a lot more digital discussions about how they are essentially the people in control. That they are members of the only party who can rid us of the scourge of this administration. Until, eventually, they will be charged with sole responsibility for this Government's survival. This latest debacle, which was borne out of "confusion around the truth" in Government, should not be transformed into Fianna Fáil's difficulty. But danger could evolve if the party allows external pressure to become internalised. Its challenge is to remain on message, committed to its own timetable and, most of all, remain united. Because as history has shown, power struggles in Fianna Fáil are not consumed with pleasantries, they are brutal and destructive. Fine Gael, on the other hand, deals with internal strife differently and is oh-so-very civilised, as we saw this week. Tall tales, short tempers and long knives were all given sharp shrift. The challenge to Enda Kenny's leadership was over as quickly as it began. A confrontation that threatened floors more bloody than an abattoir was effectively reduced to a pathetic dummy-spitting competition. The art of war is lost on these people. Contenders a-plenty marched up and down the hill so many times that they made Old King Cole look like General Erwin Rommel. So far, much of the discussion around the implications of the new leader of Fine Gael for Fianna Fáil has focused solely on who its new leader will be, assuming Enda ever actually leaves. Whether it is Leo Varadkar who is victorious, or if Simon Coveney simply bores everyone into submission, there are greater implications for Fianna Fáil than just that one central character. A new Taoiseach also means new ministers. New ministers mean fresh slates, clean pages and deck-clearing. Ultimately, those new ministers will enforce changes of their own (in that respect, Garda Commissioner Nóirín O'Sullivan may not be entirely out of the woods yet). Fresh faces bring fresh headaches for the Fianna Fáil. It is reasonable to expect that any new administration introducing changes will receive a fillip, firstly for simply tackling the failings of its predecessor. It is this wider issue that Fianna Fáil must work hard to curtail in the months ahead. Effectively, it needs to ensure that any political bounce Fine Gael receives is not converted into a political bonanza of seats. That means a more visible front bench, with a more aggressive attack on Fine Gael. Not an easy task whilst in a confidence and supply arrangement with the Government. Ireland's economic recovery remains tentative and uncertain given the implications of Brexit. In the meantime, the issues continue to stack up - industrial relations unrest, systemic failures in our health system, a multiplicity of housing and homelessness crises fester. With so many issues in a state of flux, the business of governing wherever it eventually falls will not be easy. Fianna Fáil will need to be entirely match-ready. The political legacy from the economic and social tsunami of recent years promised new politics. Instead, it has only resulted in greater dysfunctionality. Much hope was placed on the shoulders of new politics - now it can only be viewed as either a failed political possibility or a missed opportunity. In reality it was only ever an ethereal notion of nothing; a neat and meaningless narrative dreamed up to mask a political configuration so convoluted and contrived it was always destined to fail. If there was an election in the next few months, polls predict we would effectively return to the arrangement we have now, albeit with the two larger parties in reverse order. So instead of Fianna Fáil supporting Fine Gael, it would be dependent on the other party's support. What in the world would that achieve except to prolong a paralysed political process? Devoid of legislative structure, with little or no defined national ambition, any new government structure of this nature would be destined to simply survive, not thrive. In last year's election, the national debate was strangled by discussions about who will support who post-election. It is this nonsensical speculation that prevents us, the Irish people, from hearing what policies lie behind these people. Without more questioning about policy, we are displaying an extraordinary wilful blindness to the dangers of electing people and parties without understanding the effect of their ascension to power. It may be time to abandon new politics. If that is the case, Fianna Fáil might do better to scroll back 20 years and decide to just be honest with the electorate and state that its political objective is to try to maximise seat gain to construct a stronger stable government that can make a longer-term commitment to the Irish people. Mandy Johnston is a former Government Press Secretary Irish Independent 
