politics
{  
    March 28 2010 03:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/soldiers-and-tribesmen-make-a-first-attempt-at-political-reform-26644816.html }
Last week, our two main political parties made their first attempt at political reform. At least, it is to be hoped that it is their first attempt. From its profoundest depths, our country is crying out for change -- real change. Not change for change's sake, mind you, but an overhaul of politics to make government fit for the 21st Century. Provided they are only the start of a debate that becomes more radical, Fine Gael's New Politics document and Brian Cowen's reshuffle are a good start. In Ireland's inert, hierarchical culture, getting change of any kind is like kicking a dead whale along a beach. Brian Cowen knows this from his efforts to try and solve Fianna Fail's internal troubles. Perhaps had he made more progress there in recent years, he might have had a freer hand last Tuesday. Fine Gael's organisation is revamped and it can more credibly contemplate reforming the rest of the political system. But, before either party boasts about reform, I have a question. Why are our two largest parties still called, literally, the Tribe of the Gaels and the Soldiers of Destiny? A foreign political scientist could be forgiven for thinking our political system was designed by JRR Tolkien. Don't get me wrong, I'm an ardent fan of Celtic revivalism. But whether in Irish or English, political-party names should mean something. When, two weeks ago, Phil Hogan said we couldn't solve our economic problems until we modernised our political system, he was right. But basing a party divide on a civil war that happened 90 years ago shows that the two parties that spent the week trying to drag our politics and government into this century remain stuck in the first quarter of the last one. But the week wasn't all bad. As an alcoholic will tell you, the first step to recovery is ending denial. One party at least had the guts to clear its throat, and to stand up and admit that we have a problem. Fine Gael's New Politics document is far from adequate, as I'll explain shortly. But it is, so far, better than any other party's proposal. And the Tribe can't be criticised for not proposing an end to civil war politics. It has already done the right thing by the nation once in our generation: as those murmuring about his appointment to Anglo Irish Bank have forgotten, Alan Dukes ended our last economic crisis and got the Celtic Tiger going in 1987 by extending a hand of co-operation across the Dail, ending his own career as a result. If it happens again, it is the Soldiers' turn to support the Tribe this time out. For a decade and a half, the PDs kept public spending and borrowing in check before the Soldiers became the Socialist Soldiers and the PDs became their lapdogs. Since the Nineties, the Tribe has been too scared of other tribes -- vested interests and media pundits. Thus, it offered no real alternative vision in 2007. More than most factors, it is the past refusal to coalesce -- especially at this time of deep crisis -- that allowed every interest group in the country to drive a wedge between them, bringing the nation to its knees. But, even if that won't change in the near future, two other reforms could work wonders: on human rights grounds, let alone economy policy grounds, multi-seat constituencies should be banned by the Geneva convention. As they gather to celebrate the ban on blood sports at their ard fheis in Waterford, the Green Party should consider that humans have rights as well as animals: having party colleagues stab you in the back while official opponents stab you in the face is a cruelty even politicians don't deserve. Together with the Single Transferable Vote, this system allows the self-interested floaters to decide the outcome of an election while more loyal, nationally minded first-preference votes are taken for granted. As a result, some interest groups have more power in our democracy than some military dictators. By filling the Dail with TDs from lists selected by their parties -- according to share of the vote as the Dutch or Germans do -- we would eliminate multi-seat constituencies and transfers at a stroke, and end this tyranny forever. A list system would also bring business people, scientists and entrepreneurs into the Dail. Local government would have to be reformed, with councillors earning a decent salary and being given modest tax-raising powers to run a smaller number of bigger local authorities. That way citizens would have their local issues dealt with effectively. Instead of abolishing the Senate, it should be strengthened. If elected on a universal franchise, it is exactly what we need to monitor and stop pre-election spending binges of the kind that damn near ruined us. And it could oversee long-term economic projects. Government departments also need radical change. Who got what job last Tuesday is utterly irrelevant. What is relevant is that in the absence of any Ministry for Economic Planning, the inconsistencies across policies from bank regulation, taxation, to government spending, to spatial planning, rezoning, transport and others that were fundamental to our crisis will continue. And no, social partnership documents don't count as economic planning. And another thing: why does the high-tech multinational sector of our economy -- far bigger than agriculture and tourism -- still have no department? Clearly, the voice of a sector of our economy at the Cabinet table depends far more on its electoral clout than its importance to job creation or prosperity. That said, two good things were done on Tuesday. By taking with him responsibility for research spending to Enterprise, Trade and Innovation, Batt O'Keeffe can now focus this huge area of government spending on creating jobs rather than dissertations. And by merging labour affairs with public sector reform, the public sector has a better chance of being reformed without serious disruption to public services or political stability. A good start is half the work, as they say. The seeds of this Republic of ours were sown in 1916. We have some years before it enters its second century of independence. Let's use those years to finish the job of reform, and implement the biggest and boldest ones possible. On Wednesday at 9.30pm on Newstalk 106-108FM 'Coleman at Large' asks why, if the British proudly wear the poppy, we can't reclaim the Easter Lily from Sinn Fein, and wear it with pride. www.marccoleman.ie Sunday Independent 
