politics
{ Brendan O'Connor 
    August 18 2013 03:05 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/brendan-oconnor-dont-leave-out-the-i-dont-knows-theyre-a-major-political-force-29507672.html }
When you rule out the "don't knows", the two "major" political parties are still neck and neck in today's Sunday Independent/Millward Brown opinion poll, with Fine Gael at 29 per cent and Fianna Fail at 28 per cent. Like I say, that's when you rule out the "don't knows". But why rule out the "don't knows"? You wouldn't take out Fine Gael voters or Fianna Fail voters and work out the percentages without them, would you? So why then rule out the biggest political force in this country – the people with the conviction to say "I don't know"? When we include them, as we should, we see that if there was a general election in the morning, the "don't know" party would enjoy a landslide victory. At 37 per cent of the total electorate, (including, obviously, "don't knows"), right now, "I don't know" is bigger than the two main parties combined. Fianna Fail and Fine Gael combined only enjoy the support of 35 per cent of the electorate. "I don't know" enjoys twice the support, as a proposition, than the main party in Government does. It enjoys nearly eight times the support of the junior party in Government. You could say that "I don't know" is the political zeitgeist, sweeping the land. It is a huge movement. "I don't know" is where it's at. If people could tap into this "I don't know" movement they could be very rich and very popular. As we speak, ad agencies are doubtless trying to find out how to appeal to the "I don't know" demographic, TV producers are trying to think of shows that can harness that "I don't know" feeling and T-shirt designers are working up designs for people to proclaim their confusion. "I don't know" is the new big thing, the hottest new trend this century. It encapsulates, in many ways, the uncertainty of the age. It is the slogan for our time, a time of accelerated change, of information overload, of disruption and upheaval, when it's become impossible to tell the good guys from the bad guys in Syria and Egypt, when your job could as easily go to India as it could to a computer. There are only two types of people now. Those who admit they don't know and those who pretend otherwise. The reason that the "don't knows" get dismissed from polls so that we can glean the "real" numbers, is because we make unfair assumptions about "don't knows". One unfair assumption is the notion that "I don't know" is not really a legitimate or permanent position, that it is a holding position for someone who is waiting to decide between one of the political parties. Alternatively, "I don't know" is viewed as a position adopted by someone who can't be bothered taking some responsibility, someone who refuses to do their societal duty and exercise their franchise, their right to choose. "I don't know" is regarded not as an opinion in its own right, but as a refusal to have an opinion. In practical terms this translates into an assumption that the "don't knows" will either plump for one of the existing alternatives when there is an election, or else they won't vote, so they don't matter. So leave them out. But when the "don't knows" dwarf not just the fringe political parties, but the two mainstream establishment parties, then it is possibly time to include them, not just in the poll results but in our thinking. If the biggest political movement in the country feels disinterested, disenfranchised or disconnected, then we should perhaps pay attention to it. Maybe we need to start considering that "I don't know" is a legitimate political choice. Maybe we need to accept that "I don't know" is increasingly viewed by some people as the only sane choice to make. Maybe these people are not adopting "I don't know" as their position while they wait to consider the various political parties. Maybe it's the other way around. Maybe they have considered the parties and come to a position. The position being "I don't know". And what is it that the "don't knows" don't know? Technically, it is that they don't know what party they would vote for if there was an election tomorrow. In reality that could encompass many things. Included in the "don't knows" are obviously people who would wait until the various parties lay out their stalls before they make a decision, the kind of people who quaintly still believe in manifestos and election promises. And then there are probably people who think "I don't know if I could bring myself to vote for any of them". There are probably people who think "I don't know what difference it will make which one of them I vote for". And there are those who, having taken it all, think, "I don't know what the point would be". Many of the "don't knows" could be the people who thought that they were voting for a change in the last General Election. The last election was sold to us as a democratic revolution. We were throwing off the yoke of the bad old days and the bad old politics for a new era of reform. But since then many people have decided that the problem was perhaps not intrinsically Fianna Fail, the problem was in fact Irish politics. The new Government has continued to impose the policies agreed with Europe by the last government, promises are still not kept and the promised reform has been kept to a minimum. There have been ministers with dodgy finances, alcohol-related "horseplay" in the Dail, awkward questions arising out of tribunals, cronyism. Business as usual, in other words. No wonder the biggest political movement in the country is people who don't know anymore. The promised democratic revolution has been focused on one big idea, which is the abolition of the Seanad. Which brings us to the other interesting result in today's poll. As it stands, people do not want the Seanad abolished anymore. It seems that once they thought about it and once there was a bit of a discussion about it, more and more people have started to think that maybe we should hold on to the Seanad. Maybe people have decided that as much as the Seanad is a home for old party loyalists and future party candidates, it is also home to at least some genuine discussion and reflection. Maybe people have decided that the Dail increasingly seems like a fairly powerless institution only there to provide a backdrop to the announcement of policy by an unassailable Cabinet. And maybe they have decided that, in that context, it could be good to have a reformed version of an Upper House, that could at least give pause for thought and could at least cast a more leisurely and critical eye over legislation being rubber stamped in the lower house by a massive, whipped majority. It is a kind of a version of "I don't know". "I don't know that I trust any of these guys so let's keep a few checks and balances there." Whatever it is, compared to the 57 per cent who wanted the Seanad abolished two years ago, only 37 per cent now want it abolished. Forty per cent think the Seanad should be kept, either reformed, or as it currently is. Of course, the Government is not offering reform of the Seanad, possibly because they know they would lose the referendum if they did. It's a fairly stark, and maybe an unfair, choice to offer people. "We won't improve it. Take it as it is now or get rid of it." The vast majority of people who would like to retain the Seanad (33 per cent of all the respondents) would like to retain a reformed Seanad. It seems odd this option is not on offer. In a sense, looking at today's poll, you could think that the Seanad is an idea whose time has come. With "I don't know" being the political movement that is sweeping the country, the idea of an Upper House that might ask the kind of questions that "I don't knows" would ask, could be a good one. The rise of the "I don't know" movement also presents something for any potential new political party to think about. There is a market out there for a new party, but it would need to be truly different, truly a new kind of politics. It would need to be a party that could accommodate the vastness of those three words: "I don't know". Sunday Independent 
