politics
{  
    September 04 2009 08:51 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/enniscorthyguardian/lifestyle/id-like-to-think-a-value-such-as-honesty-is-important-in-politics-27231175.html }
'I'M STILL the youngest member of Gorey Town Council,' admits Cllr. Malcolm Byrne, revealing that it's a statistic that somewhat annoys him. 'I'd like to think that there would be somebody younger than me there. I think it's important to have more young people involved in local politics.' He's also among the ranks of younger politicians on the County Council, a seat to which he was first elected last June. Having already served ten years on the Town Council, the ambitious young Councillor had never made any secret of wanting to run for the County Council, and eventually, going further in politics. While many enter politics because of a political family name or tradition, there was no such influence for Malcolm. 'It would certainly be the case that politics and issues would be discussed around the dinner table, and even now, at family dinners we can discuss great matters of local, national and international importance,' he smiles. 'As the eldest of five, I often find there are very different views around the dinner table.' Son of Myles and Mary of Ramsfort Avenue, Gorey, Malcolm got a grounding in debating and public speaking at school, and also got bitten by the acting bug after performing a poem as part of a St. Patrick's Day Concert when he was in third class. 'Around the same time I would have taken part in Gorey Musical Society's production of 'Oliver!',' he recalls. 'I was eight, and I was a workhouse boy.' His first bigger role was 'Louis' in 'The King and I' in 1987, again with Gorey Musical Society, and between the Society, and Gorey Little Theatre Group, he has appeared in many plays, musicals, and pantos in Gorey since then. After Leaving Cert in 1991 in the old CBS, he went on to study Law in UCD, and graduated in 1994. During his final year, he got his first taste of election success, putting himself forward for Education Officer with the Student Union, and breaking the record for the highest number of votes polled. 'There were certainly things about how UCD operated and how the education system operated where I felt changes were needed,' he said. 'Part of the reason I got involved in politics was that I have a very strong belief in education as a way of developing the individual and also society.' 'During the recent election campaign, I did meet a couple of people who reminded me they had voted for me in UCD, and they would do so again,' he laughs. Two years as Education Officer with the Union of Students in Ireland (USI) followed. 'My career part wasn't one of those mapped out career paths,' he admits. 'I'm not motivated by money. I tend to be motivated more by being content in what I'm doing, and believing in what I'm doing.' After USI, he went on to work as Press and Research Officer with Chambers of Commerce of Ireland for three years. Then he spent three years with a company called myhome.ie as commercial manager. 'We helped to grow that into probably one of the most successful Irish websites of the last decades,' he says. After that, at just 28, he was appointed Chief Executive of Community Games. 'Age should not be a barrier to anything,' he says. 'I knew the organisation because I had been involved as a kid. A lot of my background had been youth work and youth policy in a voluntary capacity.' He has chaired the National Youth Parliament, and had been Vice President of the National Youth Council of Ireland, and still sits on the National Youth Work Advisory Committee. Malcolm later went on to do a project project work with other organisations, before taking up his present post as Head of Communications with the Higher Education Authority two years ago. 'I suppose it has gone full circle,' he admits. 'One Student Union leader said recently it was a case of poacher turned gamekeeper. One time I used to stand on the backs of lorries attacking the Minister for Education. Now I go on radio defending him.' Outside of work, Malcolm has been heavily involved in Gorey Little Theatre and Gorey Musical Society, and is past Chairman of both. He has a love of art, and also loves running, and will take part in his fifth marathon in September. 'I would like to think that during my time in politics I have been campaigning for facilities for young people, supporting the arts, and trying to ensure the area is planned in a sustainable way.' He has often ploughed his own furrow, speaking out, even at odds with fellow party members, when he feels strongly enough about an issue. 'One of the biggest issues that I have had fights over with the Council has been its approach to planning development issues,' he says. 'I'm strongly supportive of development but that development has to be sustainable and it has to be about building communities. I'm guided by a particular set of principles and I've stayed true to my principles.' Asked if he believes this hampered his chances at running for County Council in 2004, he says it's possible. 'I'd prefer to be true to myself than to sell out,' he says. 'Yes there are certain issues on which you can compromise, but I'd like to think that a value such as honesty is important in politics.' The June election was a tough one for Fianna Fail, and the party ran three candidates in the Gorey electoral area, with Malcolm the only one elected. ' It is arguable that if we ran two, we would have gotten two, but I would argue I should have been a candidate,' he said. He was added as a third candidate after the initial announcement of the first two candidates. His involvement in politics has also taken a personal toll. He made national news around three years ago, when another local newspaper revealed he is gay. 'You deal with these things,' he says. 'There are times you get frustrated in politics and you kind of wonder is it worth it but it's those times when you can achieve something and you get a results, either for an individual or when you are able to influence a piece of legislation, and it's those times that really make you think "Yeah it's worth it".' He found that the public was very supportive after the public 'outing'. 'I got huge support at the time. I don't think being gay is an issue in modern Ireland. Most people will know someone who is gay, either a friend or a family member. Most people today will judge you on what you believe and what you do, rather than who you are,' he says. 'An individual's private live is not public business. The unfortunate thing about politics now is there is a lot of intrusion into politician's private lives and that does put people off going into politics.' 'But at the moment, and particularly in the current climate, it's more important than ever to get good people into public life,' he comments. He adds that the issue of his private life hasn't really been an issue since. He has also made no secret of his long term political ambitions. 'Yes at some stage I would like to think I would be given a chance to contribute to national politics,' he says. 'I'd like to think I could make a difference. I don't think ambition is a bad think and the reason I'm ambitious for myself is I'm ambitious for Gorey, for Wexford, and at national and international level as well.' 
