politics
{ John Downing 
    April 26 2015 09:59 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/john-downing/now-is-the-time-to-talk-about-how-we-manage-a-recovery-31173513.html }
Accusing politicians of "playing politics" is a time-wasting carry-on. What else are they supposed to play? They're politicians.  All right, we know the term "playing politics" usually involves a politician or party allegedly using a topic in the public discourse mainly or solely for their own gain. But that should, more accurately, be called "bad politics". Because, let's be honest, politicians play politics all day and every day. The ones who are good at it persist, and they persist because we choose that they should. That tour of the bloody obvious department is of use as we head into a new week which will definitely shape all our futures, perhaps for the next decade. Tomorrow, the Fine Gael/Labour Government will tell us broadly where we are headed for the coming three or more years in terms of taxation and expenditure. Of most interest to all of us will be signals on what sectors will benefit from extra cash available to Government. And it is every citizen's job this week and in the coming weeks to recognise "bad politics". We must remember what happened in the decade which preceded the economic crash that began in autumn 2008. That recall is not primarily about apportioning blame - but you can do that also if you wish. The more important point here is to remember how little use any of the political parties were to us in that decade before our economy fell asunder. No political party helped us to foresee the economic crash. True, a series of Fianna Fáil-led governments put undue emphasis on getting re-elected in 2002 and 2007. They fed an economic cycle to suit their own political fortunes, and us voters were bought - not for the first time - with our own money. But it is equally true that all the opposition parties partook of the same political options menu. None counselled prudence or provision for a bleaker future. The nearest we came to it was the Green Party basing policies on more modest economic growth projections than Fine Gael or Labour in opposition. Signs are that this Government has up to €2bn to spare. That significant sum will not be enough to satisfy the mostly genuine and merited calls upon it from the various interest groups. Our health and education services badly need investment. Core social welfare payments were protected over the past eight years - but real poverty needs to be addressed, at considerable cost. In the middle distance there are calls to restore public service pay. Other big issues like housing and childcare are crying out for funding. All of us want a row back on taxes, especially the hated USC, and the self-employed have a special case which requires attention. Enda Kenny's mantra, and that of his colleagues, is that "there will be no return to boom and bust". But the range of veiled promises over the past six months has been considerable. In fact, last year's Budget was barely cogitated by the public before Finance Minister Michael Noonan was on RTÉ talking about tax cuts in the following year. The result was that everyone expected more money in their pockets sooner rather later. This is an election year. If this Fine Gael/Labour Government fails to satisfy key interest groups, the opposition parties and groups could well step into that void. In an election year, disappointment means political death. Experience up to now tells us that Mr Noonan and Public Expenditure Minister Brendan Howlin are unlikely to come up with some concept of prudent munificence, giving abundantly thither and yon - but always with fiscal wisdom. That concept is not of this world. But they will be working towards something vaguely resembling that, a sort of Houdini act targeting the groups which pack the biggest political punch. That is what is properly called playing politics. The need for the Government to act along give-away lines will be deemed more acute by yesterday's Red C opinion poll in the 'Sunday Business Post'. Both government parties have declined by 2pc each and have a combined score of 33pc. That is not encouraging but it leaves them with the real prospect of re-election, the more so given that they have money to spend. Yet again, Labour, on 8pc, is in the more difficult position and is at less than half its February 2011 general election triumph. Coalition party strategists will conclude that some goodies are called for and tomorrow's "Spring Statement" will be assessed in those terms. The Red C poll tells us the catch-all "Independents and Others" are still motoring well on 26pc. Sinn Féin has regained 5pc; questions about republican child sex abuse have shown to be short-lived, as it stands on 22pc. The message to both groupings here is "keep on promising". Being against everything and not having to pay for anything brings its own political freedom. The same opinion poll brought little comfort for Fianna Fáil with a 1pc increase, though it will take encouragement from the weekend Ard Fheis in the RDS. Micheál Martin's stance hardened against water charges and he made specific pledges on USC cuts, on childcare and to the self-employed. Mr Martin's warning that the Government is "trying to buy the election" means the auction is now well and truly advanced. Noises off from the political auction are also of major concern for the Government. The Siteserv and IBRC controversy risks impeding Government efforts to put the spotlight solely on matters economic this week. The Government has not handled this row over the sale of Siteserv to businessman Denis O'Brien very well. The option of moving towards a full-blown inquiry remains quite likely. Yet again, the focus will be on Labour and questions will be directed at Joan Burton about how she can tolerate the former liquidator of IBRC and Siteserv conducting this review. But that is beside the main point to be taken by all citizens from this week's events. The point is that now we are emerging from recession, the onus is upon us to try to stand back a little and assess the emerging political promises. Otherwise, we deserve to become victims of the game of politics. Irish Independent 
