politics
{  
    February 17 2011 10:52 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/david-medcalf-takes-a-ride-on-the-enda-bus-to-chat-with-the-man-who-will-most-likely-be-king-27577945.html }
IF CLIFF RICHARD is the Peter Pan of Pop, then Enda Kenny is the political equivalent. Almost eerily youthful in appearance, he jokes that he was born in 1927 when, in fact, he entered this world in 1951. Yes, shortly after he becomes Taoiseach as must surely happen early next month, he will turn sixty – even if he looks fifteen years younger. The very opposite of an overnight success, he has been a T.D. since 1975. Yet as the day of reckoning at the polls approaches, he retains as much of a spring in his step as he had when he first entered the Dáil as a raw 24-year-old. Now a veteran of a dozen elections, he will soon be 'Father of the House'. He laughs at the prospect as he sets about a relentless nationwide tour with a zest that would do credit to someone half his age. Perhaps there are long life genes in the blood - mother Eithne is very much still alive in her mid-nineties, frail and resident in a nursing home but sill taking an interest in current affairs. ' There's nothing like the adrenalin flood from the hustings,' says Fine Gael's leader and premier-in-waiting as he skips around the streets of yet another town on the gruelling itinerary. 'I love campaigning. That's the life-blood of politics, getting out there and being with the people. You meet them and they give out and they criticise and they promote and they support. Politics is always about people, first and last. If you don't like that, then you shouldn't be in the business. 'I was reared in a political household. My father, God rest him, was Dáil Deputy from 1954 to 1975 when he died unfortunately from cancer. I was elected in a by-election in November of that year - and I am still here.' Being the son of the local T.D. in Mayo gave Enda an insight into what it is like to be on call around the clock, always in demand. He was the middle child among a family of five. When Deputy Henry Kenny passed away, Enda was the one nominated to fill the paternal shoes and sit in the family seat. His two older brothers were living away from the constituency at the time, while the younger siblings were still at school. He was teaching locally and available for the job. 'My father had been a big influence of course. I campaigned in elections even as a young lad. You get to learn very quickly how things happen, to read the signs from people, whether they are supporters or what are the issues in any one campaign. But there was no sense that my da was grooming me. You don't expect your father to die.' The accidental politician was chosen at first time of asking, swept to Leinster House on a wave of sympathy for the Kenny family. During the by-election, he had the backing on the stomp of all the big hitters from Liam Cosgrave's administration. With a perilously slim majority, they needed Enda in Dáil Eireann in order to extend the life of their F.G./Labour Government. He assisted in prolonging the administration for a further eighteen months before Jack Lynch's Fianna Fáil swept to power. He recalls his lowly start as a rookie in the national parliament. ' They all said before I went into Dáil Eireann "we'll give you every assistance and help" but the day you walk in the gate, you are on your own. Jimmy Tully, Labour minister from down in Meath told me "you want to learn about this place, go down and sit in the chamber and listen." It was very good advice.' Spending many years on the back benches and in Opposition, there was plenty of time for sitting and listening. But Enda Kenny was never one to rest idle. In the days of the dual mandate, he spent two decades on Mayo County Council, a bear pit of a local authority where the rows over rates and spending were tumultuous while the meetings were often long and acrimonious. Still in his twenties when he was propelled into public service, he had the energy to continue his love affair with Gaelic football: 'I grew up in the fifties in rural Mayo. Emigration was always the thing. Football was your game and that was it, you didn't have anything else. Ours was a little club outside Castlebar called Islandeady, which I later captained and trained and managed. We won county championships, when I was teaching and when I was a T.D.' The teaching was carried out first at a primary school halfway between Westport and Leenane in a place called Carrowkennedy. Later he stood in front of the blackboard at another school nearer Westport. 'I could have been very happy teaching but that's life.' He spent just four years in the classroom going on to become a Cabinet Minister in the coalition led by John Bruton. Instead of teaching he was fated to become immersed in politics, a demanding job for a family man. Wife Fionnuala and the couple's three offspring have to put up with the fact that he spends more of his time in Dublin than in Mayo. The intensity of which has been ratcheted up since he became party leader nine years ago. 'During the normal Dáil session, you'd come up to Dublin on Monday evening. Then you could be anywhere around the country Thursday, Friday, maybe get home Saturday night. 'We have two boys and a girl - 18, 16 and 14. The muck that that flies around in politics passes over them. They were born into a household same as I was myself. They are all in secondary school and they get excited about elections but they are not out canvassing, actually. We have one doing the Leaving Cert, so she is studying hard. Our second lad is in transition year and he has been in Germany for the last four weeks. Our third is in second year. They play football and do all the other things that everyone else does. 'You try to keep Sundays for your family, obviously, but then you have championship matches to go to or maybe there might be other occasions that might arise. One of the things about politics is that there isn't any regularity about it. 'I have lived this life 35 years now. All my adult life has been involved in politics.' There is no doubting the pride he takes in having revived Fine Gael. He considers the resurgent party in large part his creation, built on the back of countless visits to every constituency from Bloody Foreland to Carnsore Point. No wonder that he responded so firmly to the attempted heave last year. Having someone else take the credit for the gains made on his watch would have been very difficult to bear. He recalls that when he was first selected as leader, the journalists attending his press conferences were sparse enough. 'When we started out in 2002, the party was demoralised and disillusioned and demotivated. There were those who gave us the last rights. The judgement days are elections and, in every election we have fought since 2002, we have gained seats, votes and support. This one coming on the 25th is the culmination of the whole lot.' The tide appears to be inexorably with him and his party. Last week his entry into the room for the launch of F.G.'s financial strategy at a Dublin business centre prompted a blizzard of camera flash. Many of the photographers present brought long lenses capable of picking up a nostril hair out of place from their place in the front row. Throughout the day the leader was followed by lap-top toting journalists, while every time he met a voter on the street, half a dozen microphones sprouted like mushrooms between politician and member of public. The Father of the House recalls very different elections. 'In 1975, never mind mobile phones, they had landlines in very few of the houses. You had the beginnings of posters and the old church gate system was very important. You would speak to people outside church, not that you ever converted anyone. It's all changed now. It's a very different proposition. Very few people will speak at church gates, though you will shake hands.' He takes the current saturation point media attention as a compliment. Asked how he switches off, he insists that he has no problem relaxing away from the spotlight. While he does not take as much exercise as he would like, he still claims to be able to run a hundred metres in around 13.5 – not bad for a 59-yearold. 'How do I switch off? Well, I could walk up the hill there or take the bike out, put on the helmet and cycle fifty miles, listen to a bit of music or read or go off for a family picnic. We go to Kerry every year for a fortnight, down to Killarney. My wife is from down there. I never have a problem switching off at all. I like sports generally. My two boys at home support Liverpool for some reason or other. I think that's because, when they went to the primary school, Liverpool was all the go.' He says he seldom has the leisure to watch much British soccer. In a few weeks time he should have even less time on his hands with a country to run. He numbers previous Taoiseach W.T. Cosgrave (along with Michael Collins) among his heroes. 'Cosgrave did a great job, building a fledgling country from the wreckage of another one. What we are facing now is analogous to that first Government creating a new economy from the wreckage of an old one. 'The reputation of Ireland has taken a serious hammering in the last 15 to 18 months. That's got to be re-built. We can get back up on the world stage again. The job of the politician is to make decisions and find solutions.' IF CLIFF RICHARD is the Peter Pan of Pop, then Enda Kenny is the political equivalent. Almost eerily youthful in appearance, he jokes that he was born in 1927 when, in fact, he entered this world in 1951. Yes, shortly after he becomes Taoiseach as must surely happen early next month, he will turn sixty – even if he looks fifteen years younger. The very opposite of an overnight success, he has been a T.D. since 1975. Yet as the day of reckoning at the polls approaches, he retains as much of a spring in his step as he had when he first entered the Dáil as a raw 24-year-old. Now a veteran of a dozen elections, he will soon be 'Father of the House'. He laughs at the prospect as he sets about a relentless nationwide tour with a zest that would do credit to someone half his age. Perhaps there are long life genes in the blood - mother Eithne is very much still alive in her mid-nineties, frail and resident in a nursing home but sill taking an interest in current affairs. ' There's nothing like the adrenalin flood from the hustings,' says Fine Gael's leader and premier-in-waiting as he skips around the streets of yet another town on the gruelling itinerary. 'I love campaigning. That's the life-blood of politics, getting out there and being with the people. You meet them and they give out and they criticise and they promote and they support. Politics is always about people, first and last. If you don't like that, then you shouldn't be in the business. 'I was reared in a political household. My father, God rest him, was Dáil Deputy from 1954 to 1975 when he died unfortunately from cancer. I was elected in a by-election in November of that year - and I am still here.' Being the son of the local T.D. in Mayo gave Enda an insight into what it is like to be on call around the clock, always in demand. He was the middle child among a family of five. When Deputy Henry Kenny passed away, Enda was the one nominated to fill the paternal shoes and sit in the family seat. His two older brothers were living away from the constituency at the time, while the younger siblings were still at school. He was teaching locally and available for the job. 'My father had been a big influence of course. I campaigned in elections even as a young lad. You get to learn very quickly how things happen, to read the signs from people, whether they are supporters or what are the issues in any one campaign. But there was no sense that my da was grooming me. You don't expect your father to die.' The accidental politician was chosen at first time of asking, swept to Leinster House on a wave of sympathy for the Kenny family. During the by-election, he had the backing on the stomp of all the big hitters from Liam Cosgrave's administration. With a perilously slim majority, they needed Enda in Dáil Eireann in order to extend the life of their F.G./Labour Government. He assisted in prolonging the administration for a further eighteen months before Jack Lynch's Fianna Fáil swept to power. He recalls his lowly start as a rookie in the national parliament. ' They all said before I went into Dáil Eireann "we'll give you every assistance and help" but the day you walk in the gate, you are on your own. Jimmy Tully, Labour minister from down in Meath told me "you want to learn about this place, go down and sit in the chamber and listen." It was very good advice.' Spending many years on the back benches and in Opposition, there was plenty of time for sitting and listening. But Enda Kenny was never one to rest idle. In the days of the dual mandate, he spent two decades on Mayo County Council, a bear pit of a local authority where the rows over rates and spending were tumultuous while the meetings were often long and acrimonious. Still in his twenties when he was propelled into public service, he had the energy to continue his love affair with Gaelic football: 'I grew up in the fifties in rural Mayo. Emigration was always the thing. Football was your game and that was it, you didn't have anything else. Ours was a little club outside Castlebar called Islandeady, which I later captained and trained and managed. We won county championships, when I was teaching and when I was a T.D.' The teaching was carried out first at a primary school halfway between Westport and Leenane in a place called Carrowkennedy. Later he stood in front of the blackboard at another school nearer Westport. 'I could have been very happy teaching but that's life.' He spent just four years in the classroom going on to become a Cabinet Minister in the coalition led by John Bruton. Instead of teaching he was fated to become immersed in politics, a demanding job for a family man. Wife Fionnuala and the couple's three offspring have to put up with the fact that he spends more of his time in Dublin than in Mayo. The intensity of which has been ratcheted up since he became party leader nine years ago. 'During the normal Dáil session, you'd come up to Dublin on Monday evening. Then you could be anywhere around the country Thursday, Friday, maybe get home Saturday night. 'We have two boys and a girl - 18, 16 and 14. The muck that that flies around in politics passes over them. They were born into a household same as I was myself. They are all in secondary school and they get excited about elections but they are not out canvassing, actually. We have one doing the Leaving Cert, so she is studying hard. Our second lad is in transition year and he has been in Germany for the last four weeks. Our third is in second year. They play football and do all the other things that everyone else does. 'You try to keep Sundays for your family, obviously, but then you have championship matches to go to or maybe there might be other occasions that might arise. One of the things about politics is that there isn't any regularity about it. 'I have lived this life 35 years now. All my adult life has been involved in politics.' There is no doubting the pride he takes in having revived Fine Gael. He considers the resurgent party in large part his creation, built on the back of countless visits to every constituency from Bloody Foreland to Carnsore Point. No wonder that he responded so firmly to the attempted heave last year. Having someone else take the credit for the gains made on his watch would have been very difficult to bear. He recalls that when he was first selected as leader, the journalists attending his press conferences were sparse enough. 'When we started out in 2002, the party was demoralised and disillusioned and demotivated. There were those who gave us the last rights. The judgement days are elections and, in every election we have fought since 2002, we have gained seats, votes and support. This one coming on the 25th is the culmination of the whole lot.' The tide appears to be inexorably with him and his party. Last week his entry into the room for the launch of F.G.'s financial strategy at a Dublin business centre prompted a blizzard of camera flash. Many of the photographers present brought long lenses capable of picking up a nostril hair out of place from their place in the front row. Throughout the day the leader was followed by lap-top toting journalists, while every time he met a voter on the street, half a dozen microphones sprouted like mushrooms between politician and member of public. The Father of the House recalls very different elections. 'In 1975, never mind mobile phones, they had landlines in very few of the houses. You had the beginnings of posters and the old church gate system was very important. You would speak to people outside church, not that you ever converted anyone. It's all changed now. It's a very different proposition. Very few people will speak at church gates, though you will shake hands.' He takes the current saturation point media attention as a compliment. Asked how he switches off, he insists that he has no problem relaxing away from the spotlight. While he does not take as much exercise as he would like, he still claims to be able to run a hundred metres in around 13.5 – not bad for a 59-yearold. 'How do I switch off? Well, I could walk up the hill there or take the bike out, put on the helmet and cycle fifty miles, listen to a bit of music or read or go off for a family picnic. We go to Kerry every year for a fortnight, down to Killarney. My wife is from down there. I never have a problem switching off at all. I like sports generally. My two boys at home support Liverpool for some reason or other. I think that's because, when they went to the primary school, Liverpool was all the go.' He says he seldom has the leisure to watch much British soccer. In a few weeks time he should have even less time on his hands with a country to run. He numbers previous Taoiseach W.T. Cosgrave (along with Michael Collins) among his heroes. 'Cosgrave did a great job, building a fledgling country from the wreckage of another one. What we are facing now is analogous to that first Government creating a new economy from the wreckage of an old one. 'The reputation of Ireland has taken a serious hammering in the last 15 to 18 months. That's got to be re-built. We can get back up on the world stage again. The job of the politician is to make decisions and find solutions.' 
