politics
{  
    December 30 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/we-have-the-rainbow-so-wheres-the-pot-of-gold-26341615.html }
In a strange sense, 2007 was the year where just about everything happened -- and yet nothing really changed. The Mahon tribunal may have shredded Bertie in a fashion no political leader has experienced since Charlie Haughey, but, in spite of his travails, our smiling banal Rain Man of a ward boss is still on top of the political pile. Nothing epitomised the nature of the year more completely than the great election merry-go-round. In January, only fools and dreamers thought the Rainbow had a chance. Yet all the smart money said the political Virgin Marys of Fine Gael and Labour were digging their heels into the neck of those Fianna Fail snakes. But, even as we enjoyed the delights of the farcical battle of Ranelagh where our timid Green muesli-eaters finally scattered the feral PD tiger, already the gyre was turning decisively. As the prospect of 'Taoiseach Kenny' sank in, by Election Day the certainty that FF's Irish RM in Tipperary, Martin Mansergh, was going to win a seat even allowed people to dream of an overall FF majority. Instead we ended up with the sort of Dolly Mixture coalition FF had scoffed at so vigorously during the election. Yet, though everything had been in an outwardly dreadful flux, nothing much had really changed at all. When it comes to the winners and losers of 2007, we'll start at the top. THE LEADERS Bertie Ahern 7/10 It wasn't quite Ali/Frazier III, but the Enda Kenny/Bertie Ahern debate was the media event of the year. Bertie may well have seen his best years, but, like a great boxer who has one last fight left, Ahern dipped into his ageless box of tricks routed the pretender and secured that coveted three in a row. As Ahern's triumph was replicated by the triumph of Eoghan "the real deal" Harris over "the Great Pretender" Dunphy, poor Enda found out the hard way that no matter how swiftly you can run, you cannot hide forever. Since then the Taoiseach has looked shot, but the Ward Boss's achievement in retaining the greasy old crown means he deservedly secures the best leader of the year award. ENDA KENNY 6/10 Close, but no cigar old son. Crushing defeat in the election debate means he will continue to be haunted by questions about his intellectual capacities; this tough-minded cunning politician is going no-where fast. There again, maybe that's the problem. EAMON GILMORE 6/10 A good start, but there again Pat Rabbitte learnt the hard way that this counts for little in the final straight. Though he has got Ahern snarling in a way that Rabbitte could never achieve, like Rabbitte the new man may be haunted by the question: has he secured the leader's crown five years too late? JOHN GORMLEY 6/10 History students will recall that after an initially rigorous sorting out period, the first English invaders became more Irish than the Irish. Gormley's status as a canny political operator isn't confined to the fact that he has turned the Greens into the strong link of the Government. His most cunning act of all was the wise decision to avoid the PDs' mistaken obsession with ettics and outsource that little problem right back to FF. Definitely more like FF than FF. As Sinn Fein/MI5 and the PDs no longer have enough seats to qualify for Dail party status (ah, isn't that just so sad?) they're not in the running here. BEST GOVERNMENT MINISTER There were no nominations for this position; no not even Mary "the lovely girl" Coughlan. Of course there is Brian Lenihan, but poor Brian is still in the political equivalent of short trousers. Now if Dermot Ahern were to be promoted to . . . oh, sorry he's already there. We never noticed. Should our Cabinet of self-regarding misanthropes (who believe it is a dreadful imposition that they are forced to come into work three days a week) learn some manners and show some courage, we'll pick someone next year. BEST OPPOSITION SPOKESPERSON It certainly has been delightful to see the damage which the incorrigible Just William- style tag team of Ruairi Quinn and Brian Hayes has done to the dignified persona of the schoolmarm Mary Hanafin FG's Health spokesperson, James O'Reilly, has also made a lively start, as has Labour's Ciaran Lynch, while Richard Bruton continues to be as reliable as a Ford Mondeo. Ultimately, Joan Burton's reincarnation as a warm, witty politician and her surprise (but not to us) triumph in the Labour deputy leadership race means she is a deserved winner of this award. WORST MINISTER So many clots, so little time. We narrowed it down to two, but, while the metrosexual agonies of Eamon Ryan are becoming increasingly tedious, there could only be one winner: how could we even think of going beyond Mary "God, are you still here?" Harney? In spite of all those simpering pieces by "experts" like Kevin Myers, the best thing this over-egotistical non- achieving political actress could do is to go, in the name of God, go. GREAT WHITE HOPE Irish politics needs a FG bad boy; or, better still, a bad girl. Since FG's Lucinda Creighton initially flattered to deceive, we're stuck with Leo Varadkar. Happily, unlike so many other new TDs, Varad the Impaler refuses to be pious or nice. Instead, the man who has a voice like a corncrake stuck in a combine and a neck that's tougher than a certain part of the Taoiseach's anatomy, will certainly make life in the Dail far more interesting if he continues his present political incarnation as the new Alan Shatter crossed with a bit of eau de McDowell GREAT WHITE DOPE Could be anything he wants, but Brian Cowen continues to seriously underperform. Nothing epitomised this minister's malaise more completely than the recent Dail bar whispers about how he was very unhappy about "that salary U-turn". Perhaps someone should tell the morose one that he is Minister for Finance -- and this means you can actually make decisions, old son. But, rather like the Ward Boss, that notion doesn't seem to appeal to old Sulky at all. As an increasing number of individuals wonder how much longer must we wait for FF's Falstaffian figure to move out of his political adolescence, the far more important question may be: how much longer will we actually care? CALAMITY JAMES AWARD FOR MOST DISASTROUS YEAR There can only be one winner here. Our hero stamped and scweamed like a menopausal Paris Hilton until he got what he wanted, led his party with all of the consistency of the Duke of York, and then lost his seat, his party and his career. Still, at least Michael McDowell does have the small consolation of making a few bob in the Law Library. We're sure his former political colleagues are very sympathetic. WEIRDEST DECISION Whoever would have thought Trevor Sargent would fulfil his promise to resign the leadership of the Greens if they went into coalition with FF? Though poor Trevor did get a little bauble of a junior ministry as a reward, we doubt the recent sight of the man who could have been Tanaiste issuing press releases about sprouts will inspire too many other politicians to follow his example. FUNNIEST SIGHT OF THE YEAR Though Graham Geraghty's noble attempt to articulate a coherent reason for his decision to run for FG ran him close, ultimately the Bull O'Donoghue's incandescent outburst on his first day in the chair -- when the turkey- necked, choleric former Zero Tolerance man almost tusked the entire Opposition out of the chamber -- just about shades it. Sadly, the old Bull has become very refined since his initial assault on the Dail china shop. BEST COMEBACK Though Jackie Healy-Rae ran her close with his election survival and securing that chairman post -- at this rate, Jackie, you'll be Minister for Finance before you're 90! -- the "Nearly there, Bev" status of our favourite Independent secures this award for the second smartest girl in the West after Donegal's own "lovely" Mary Coughlan. Mind you, she's grateful to Bertie for revoking her status as the bad girl of Irish politics, but when one looks at the activities the Ward Boss has engaged in she must wonder what all the fuss was about in her case. Of course, a class act like Bev would be far too polite to say or think a nasty thing like that. THE MICHAEL McDOWELL OLD DUKE OF YORK AWARD Will he or won't he stop supporting the Government? Oh, who cares? Let's all stop listening to Finian McGrath's high-wire act and go for a drink. After all, he'll still be racing around the plinth on a political unicycle when we get back. Mind you, in fairness, who could have predicted a year ago that Finian would replace Ivor as Bertie's closest Northside Goose Tavern confidant? Perhaps old Finian isn't as, er, eccentric as he looks after all. BACKBENCHER OF THE YEAR Surprisingly enough, there was no shortage of FF options. We suspect that when Bertie finally goes, figures like new "lovely girl" Margaret Conlon, Michael McGrath, Dara Calleary and John Curran will make their mark. But our winner is FG's Damien English. The Meath TD's amiable style disguises the fact that he is a hard-working, clever, ambitious politician who saw off the challenge of Meath's legally blond FG alternative, Graham Geraghty, with some ease. Ned O'Keeffe's courage and prescience also comes in for honourable mention. WORST BACKBENCHER/ POLITICAL GOBSHITE OF THE YEAR This was an easy choice. A raft of FF junior ministers like Jimmy Devins possessed all the qualities (well, with the exception of charisma) to follow in the footsteps of giants like Jerry Cowley and Ivor Callely, while Gerry Adams's "what country am I speaking in today?" performance in the election debate also impressed. But there could be only one winner here, and if there is any figure who best captures the mordant observation of the Green Party's Deputy Government Press Officer, John Downing -- that the Greens reminded many voters of "some English 'ould wan telling a farmer 'you can't drown a dog in that canal'" -- it is their new TD, Mary White. Ms White's Dail performances have been rare (thank God) but her hectoring, finger-wagging, self righteous vicar's wife-style lectures remind us of nothing more than Labour's 1992 class of feminist bluestockings such as Eithne Fitzgerald. If Ms White is as successful as Ethics Eithne and all that ejected crew, it'll be a good day for Irish politics. 
