politics
{ Bruce Arnold 
    April 02 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/why-shouldnt-donors-to-political-parties-be-allowed-on-inside-track-26206602.html }
THE instinct among commentators to reach for their fat files on Taca (Fianna Fail's fundraising group of the Sixties) was an understandable reaction to the Fianna Fail party's new donor scheme. Words like 'infamous' and 'elitist', as though one embraced the other, were summoned up. It was not even necessary to name the arch-Taca man, Charles Haughey, to get the message across. THE instinct among commentators to reach for their fat files on Taca (Fianna Fail's fundraising group of the Sixties) was an understandable reaction to the Fianna Fail party's new donor scheme. Words like 'infamous' and 'elitist', as though one embraced the other, were summoned up. It was not even necessary to name the arch-Taca man, Charles Haughey, to get the message across. Taca was a way of monitoring and controlling the money coming into the party and its relationship to the use of power. What was good for Fianna Fail was even better for the ambitious potential leader who, in the Sixties, became closely identified with the new, modern, mohair-suited elements in the party. It was one short step from that to the creation of Haughey's own private Taca structure, and the rest, it might be said, is history. Taca was always suspect, and given the political nature of those who manipulated it, this was justified. It distorted the image of the party and seemed to challenge the grassroots structure of funding, including the church-gate collections and other donations. That, too, however, is now history. For one thing, fewer people go to church. For another, it is not an efficient approach. We have not adequately reformed the funding of politics, nor changed the system in order to lessen the pernicious dependence on the client approach to constituency politics. Most significantly of all, we are in danger of losing what was once a quite passionate relationship - that 'What is wrong with wanting to shape also the organisation to which one contributes?' between the political party and its members. In recent times, it has to be said, Sinn Fein has set better sights on these needs than other parties. They have resolved many of their financial problems, in some of the most contemptible and criminal ways, it must be said, but nevertheless this is a party with its coffers full. It has used the money within constituencies to pay its workers, to fund every detail of its campaign strategies and has achieved a modern approach that works. Other parties need to take note of this and to work out other means of achieving the same ends. Money is still the key to it, and the hard realities give some justification for what Fianna Fail now proposes. As to the supposedly elitist payback clause, the one that gives to the donor some kind of inside track on policy, or party thinking, how is that wrong? Should the supporters of political parties give their votes and call it a day? What is wrong with wanting to shape also the organisation to which one contributes? And why should that shaping process not constitute a kind of political contract, signed and paid for? We have abjured the alternative, part of which would undoubtedly be a reform ending multi-seat constituencies on the lines favoured, among others, by Gemma Hussey. We have not structured the economics of politics on the basis of State funding. We have seen loss of confidence, uncertainty of political support, fickleness over political loyalty and a widespread dismissive view of the very relevance of those we elect. In the face of this there is a great deal to be said in favour of what Fianna Fail are now proposing. There are high-risk elements in what they are doing. The first and most obvious is the tacky public memory of Taca. Although everyone knows that nothing is equal in politics - it is indeed the most unequal of all sciences - there is a desire for democracy to be linked with equal opportunity. This is a deliberate denial of such an approach. Yet it is a denial in keeping with the modern economy of Ireland, the ruthless ambition of those who seek to get on. Business people, once the envy of the majority, are now guiding and representing that majority. They encourage and instil the very conditions that are reflected in what Fianna Fail is proposing, and both the business community, on which Ireland's current success depends, and the political party that believes it approximates closest to that class, are at one on the social and economic change. The second area of risk lies in the very real possibility that the new scheme will further bewilder people as to what the Fianna Fail Party stands for. Bertie has created a climate of uncertainty. He changed his own personal direction towards socialism only last autumn and got rid of his capitalist chum, Charlie McCreevy. That did not work too well, but it did surprise us all, since we had no idea that Bertie was one of the last remaining socialists. We, in fact, have no idea what he is. He is the most elusive leader that party has ever had. The latest proposal adds to the confusion and there is a danger that it will turn sour for the party, a danger that is also evident in the widespread criticisms of the scheme. These, I believe, are based on wrong assessments of modern political realities. There are good arguments for what is being proposed. But it does need to be promoted better. It is inevitably a Fianna Fail gamble, indicative of a sense of understandable crisis within the party. Nevertheless, grounds for the better integration of voters with the parties of their choice are undeniable, and in this sense the proposal is sound. Is it moral, in terms of democratic practice? That seems not to be a question. The controls on corruption - which was one of the fears about Taca, four decades ago - are many and various. This is not the danger we should worry about. The danger is cynicism about politics and about democracy, and forging tighter links, within the law, may well offer guidelines to all political parties. They need the support. They also need the very input that has been so warmly criticised in recent days. 
