politics
{ By MARY ELLEN SYNON 
    June 17 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/beating-up-bertie-with-a-black-sheep-26255105.html }
John Bruton should be very grateful for that Haughey  skeleton in the Taoiseach's closet, says Jody Corcoran. JOHN Bruton may not be a popular man. The electorate may not want him to lead the country. But it seems he may, at last, have found a stick with which to beat the Taoiseach, and maybe, just maybe, rescue his political career. Mr Bruton has also shot himself in the foot by opening up the possibility of Michael Lowry rejoining Fine Gael, but we'll come back to that. Recently, perhaps out of desperation, the Fine Gael leader threw down a challenge to the Taoiseach. He asked Mr Ahern to give a better public explanation of his past strong political support to Charles Haughey, given what we now know about the former Taoiseach. Mr Ahern, normally so cool in the face of such challenges, responded angrily and accused Mr Bruton of dirty politics. There was a by-election campaign underway, after all. The main political parties regularly spend many thousands of pounds gauging public opinion, and tweaking their policies to suit. It could have been with the assistance of such a poll that Mr Bruton found the bat he took so vigorously to the Taoiseach. If it was, he should sample public opinion more often, as today's Sunday Independent/IMS opinion poll indicates. When asked if Mr Bruton was justified or not in challenging Mr Ahern to offer a better public explanation of his past strong political support for Charles Haughey, given ongoing revelations about how the former Taoiseach financed his lifestyle, and his general conduct in political affairs, 56 per cent said he was justified; 32 per cent said he was not justified and 12 per cent did not know or offered no opinion. SO much for Bertie Ahern and Fianna Fáil's campaign trail outrage. It seems John Boy was spot on. What he had in mind, for example, was Mr Ahern's signing of blank cheques, drawn against Mr Haughey's party leader's allowance account. Some of those cheques ended up paying for Mr Haughey's extravagant lifestyle. It was the signing of such cheques which gave rise to the phrase Blank Cheque Bertie. That phrase stuck, but little else has to the Teflon Taoiseach. But when this finding is considered alongside two previous Sunday Independent/IMS opinion polls they showed that half the electorate did not believe, or trust Mr Ahern a picture begins to emerge. The Taoiseach, all of a sudden, looks more vulnerable. Furthermore, a significant 44 per cent of Fianna Fáil voters, and 61 per cent of Progressive Democrat voters, believe Mr Bruton was justified. Interesting times, indeed. But it's not just this finding which is interesting. Take political corruption in general. Those polled were asked, in the context of a general election, which of five suggested issues would have the most influence on how they may decide to vote. In a week dominated with an inflation rise to 5.2 per cent, perhaps predictably 30 per cent chose this issue. But 27 per cent nominated political corruption, while 26 per cent said house prices, another dominant issue last week. The issues of Northern Ireland and transport traffic/roads each registered seven per cent. (Incidentally, 16 per cent chose political corruption as their second most influential issue.) It remains to be seen, however, if the 27 per cent so concerned with political corruption will actually come out to vote. And if they do, who will they vote for? The smaller parties and independents, most likely. The Sunday Independent/IMS opinion poll has found that the issue of political corruption, despite some cynical opinion, is very much exercising the electorate at the moment. Thirty-six per cent said they were ``completely dissatisfied'' and 41 per cent ``dissatisfied'' with the explanations offered by councillors for the money they received, as contained in the Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael internal investigations into donations to politicians on Dublin Co Council. The high level of dissatisfaction is similar among supporters of each of the main political parties. Only 10 per cent were ``satisfied'' and just two per cent ``completely satisfied''. Evidence to the tribunals and media reports have shown that political donations to politicians have ranged from £500 to £50,000. The poll found that 36 per cent would regard no amount as acceptable. (However, they were not asked if they would alternatively support a tax increase, for example, to finance the political system.) Mr Justice McCracken, in his tribunal report, found that up to £500 was an acceptable political donation. Eighteen per cent of those polled were in agreement with the learned judge, while 23 per cent felt that between £500 and £1,000 was acceptable. There is little solace in the poll findings for the vast majority of politicians who received between £1,000 and £10,000. Just 13 per cent felt such sums acceptable while a mere two per cent felt anything from £10,000 to £50,000 acceptable. This question elicited one, let's call it amusing finding. Of the 1,108 people polled, just three found a political donation of over £50,000 acceptable. They were Fianna Fáil supporters. But back to Mr Bruton, the man who can't open one door without putting his foot in his mouth, as it were. If he touched a public nerve by challenging Mr Ahern's relationship with Mr Haughey, he wiped away the resultant benefit by saying that Michael Lowry could rejoin Fine Gael once he has sorted out his tax affairs and paid his debt to society. A huge 60 per cent felt Mr Bruton was wrong to make this offer, 25 per cent felt he was right and 15 per cent did not know or had no opinion. As we head towards a general election, possibly before the end of the year, it looks like we must look forward to John Bruton and Bertie Ahern bashing each other with their respective black sheep. 
