politics
{ By BRUCE ARNOLD 
    July 14 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/is-there-room-for-a-new-political-party-26113837.html }
DETAILS OF a new political party, which were published in the Irish Times last week, were tentative and uncertain. They had two significant ingredients. The first was the presence at  the centre of the party's thinking and planning of Colm MacEochaidh. The second was the intention to look for seats in fifteen marginals around the state. It has to be said that these ``facts'' were qualified. It was by no means clear whether Colm MacEochaidh, who offered the reward through a Newry law firm of £10,000 for information on planning corruption, an offer to which Mr Gogarty responded, eventually leading to the Flood Tribunal, was going to lead the new party or mastermind it. And it did seem that the very emergence of his intent came at a time not of his own choosing. A day later, in the same newspaper, Fintan O'Toole quite properly took the new party to task on its apparently circumscribed platform of only going for fifteen seats: Be national, or be nothing, he argued. If there is a problem giving rise to a political opportunity, then that problem will not be solved in the marginals. It is daunting to be so advised. Politics is a wasteland at present, inhabited by uncertain and frightened individuals. The parties seem to be getting everything wrong, the biggest governing force on their behaviour is the opinion poll, and the public's view is represented, all too often, by a collective condemnation. ``A plague on all your houses'' might sum it up. It does not seem, within the present set of political structures, that an answer exists. There is a natural gap between the fall from grace of Fianna Fail, which must take the main burden of blame and criticism for unregenerate politics in the country, and the existing opposition parties none of them blameless which are unable to take up the slack. We judge this, of course, by the opinion polls, a perpetual bane on true analysis, which we saw proved in the actual outcome of the Tipperary by-election. Nevertheless, there is a problem of credibility where the very criteria which affect the established political party, as opposed to the new and embryonic organisation, operates against the recovery of trust. And this inhibits support from the electorate. This sense of novelty, and a set of new answers, has favoured the rise to prominence of Sinn Fein as an alternative party. It offers the prospect of filling that supposed ``Fifteen-seat Gap.'' And it is a counterweight to set against the decline of the Progressive Democrats, the only successful new political party in the last three decades. I use the word ``successful'' advisedly. In its current troubles which I believe can be turned around it is part of our culture to begrudge that party even the modest benefit of pointing out just how important it was, when it first emerged, and how absolutely crucial it became in controlling two Fianna Fail-led administrations. These were the Haughey-led Government between 1989 and 1992, and the Government that replaced it, led by Albert Reynolds. And that value does not end there. The party, despite the wind that has been taken out of it by mistakes, went on making a significant contribution. And it has the potential to continue this. However, the gap remains. We face a prospect of nightmarish proportions, with independents, splinter-group parties, and above all Sinn Fein, holding the balance of power in a future Dail. Sinn Fein rich, well-organised, becomingly modest in its aspirations on the number of seats it might gain is the real threat. This is an unconstitutional party, linked to an illegal army in the State that is in possession of a vast and threatening array of weapons. And yet, in default of something better, it appears to be offering a seductive set of social recipes in the Republic that could make it a significant political force in the next election well beyond present prediction. Any analysis of what a new party must tackle, and what the existing parties must deal with, begins with this issue of constitutionality. The democracy which once we seemed to enjoy, and which now appears to be in need of rescue, requires a security bedrock which it is currently lacking. In the supposed interests of the Belfast Agreement, but in the real interests of political jockeying for the next election down here, when Sinn Fein could well have a wide appeal for potential partnerships, all the parties in the State seem to be tolerating this security anomaly. So that is the first issue. From it stem the others. We have a country run badly because of vested interests. From rewards given to the wealthiest in our society, down to the punishments meted out upon the marginalised, we have made a mockery of another constitutional base, that of equality. There is a chronic defect in the principle of equality before the law; there is a separate and distinct defect over equality of opportunity. There is a structure of privilege within our society. It is of long duration, in respect of the Roman Catholic Church. It is of much more recent history in respect of the ability of wealth and political influence to combine together in the corrupt distortions of their effect and influence over decision-making, and over the preservation of that wealth. We have been instructed by the various tribunals in the nature and extent of this corruption. But we are not in any way assured of retribution; in fact, quite the reverse. Experience has taught us the dismal lesson of looking on impotently as wrong-doers are revealed in what they do, but not punished. A new political party has no claim over the agenda of remedies. It is reassuring that part of Colm MacEochaidh's political make-up, as far as we can discern it, is to be representative of the marginalised. And this seems to be at least one of the main platforms of his fledgling organisation. While the same objectives are followed, with painstaking care, by politicians in other parties, they currently run the gauntlet of public disapproval for reasons which are difficult to analyse, even harder to justify. Any catalogue of the problems which seems to embrace Church and State, Public Service, Judiciary, Banks, professions, local authorities, as well as the politicians themselves is likely to add to the collective gloom and the sense of despair about recovering faith in our public representatives. It is perhaps better and more positive to identify the individual's rights under the law, and question where they are blocked or impeded and why. Choosing security, equality, privacy, protection of family, and judging political performance against such absolutes might be better than a blanket accusation of sleaze or corruption which is both manifestly unfair, and deeply depressing. On such a basis both the old and the new in our political life have a future. 
