politics
{  
    December 16 2012 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/john-drenna-the-last-political-bruiser-pulls-no-punches-on-vote-28948170.html }
After yet another week that brought us yet 'another fine mess', this Government cannot reach the sanctuary of the Christmas recess fast enough. The Laurel and Hardy-style regime of Enda and Eamon will survive but the damage done by the departure of a single TD, Colm Keaveney, is the measure of the palsied state of the 'grey old men'. In a reverse of the old adage about how the punch you don't see coming is the one that does the damage, the irony surrounding Keaveney's decision is that Labour saw that particular danger clearly. This meant that having been forewarned, forearmed and having babysat Labour's turbulent priest at great peril to their personal sanity, the departure of Keaveney, amidst a flurry of tributes to the excellent work Joan Burton was doing, was all the more alarming. It wasn't just that suddenly, in one dramatic flounce, the dream result where, after all the pre-budgetary dramas, all the Labour and FG TDs in the Coalition bed would roll over without anyone falling out, had been ruined. The real problem was that a government, which had been grievously wounded by Senator John Whelan's lacerating "grey men out of touch" characterisation, suddenly looked very fragile. Gilmore could just about survive waving goodbye to the turbulent Keaveney; who could yet turn out to be one of those flamboyant peacocks the party so often attracts... or a Haughey in temporary exile. However, such now is the uncertain state of Gilmore's tenure that had one or two more TDs jumped the shark, the Labour leader could have been facing the sort of spontaneous revolt that was last seen when FF rebelled against Biffo's first budget as Taoiseach. And we know how well that ended up. The initial situation was so serious that the party's doyen Pat Rabbitte was needed to stabilise the patient. The last political bruiser remaining within the Grumpy Old Men managed a fair job in that regard for there was weight in his warnings against the evils of "political narcissism". In fairness, Rabbitte's warning that "we can't afford self-indulgence at this time" echoed that of Gilmore. But it was Rabbitte's critique of the politics of "pirouetting on the plinth", where TDs go "parading their struggle with their conscience and saying, watch me now as I agonise", which put some colour into the bloodless cheeks of the Labour deputies. It may be difficult for a party that embraces individualism – in the way that one of Fianna Fail's core values is the herd instinct – to understand, but political courage is not always about rushing into the valley of death to rounds of applause from those who have no skin in the fight. However, Rabbitte at least showed some recognition of the quieter school of political courage as he praised the loyalist TDs for taking "the hard decision... to bring in a Budget that offers us the prospect of protecting the poor". In fairness, whilst Rabbitte may have been correct in his critique, the unease amid the Labour backbenchers is not that surprising. Individual ministers like Rabbitte, Quinn, Burton and Howlin have at least been efficient but the problem the party faces is that the political narrative of the Labour wing of the Government is entirely negative. They are well intentioned, but the story they are trying to sell is the negative one of preventing even greater disasters rather than the creation of anything positive. Nothing epitomised this flaw more than the party's anxiety to push through the message that it had imposed €500m extra in taxes on the wealthy classes in society. There is nothing wrong, of course, in soaking the idle rich for a few hundred million in extra taxes. But, in spite of the eternal strength of the Irish begrudgery gene, taxing the wealthy is not going to improve the mood of the despairing squeezed middle. They want Labour to do something for them rather than seeking glory for pauperising everyone in the State. Labour is also being destroyed by its status as the designated advocacy group for a public sector that constitutes little more than a tenth of the electorate and who are also, as FF found to its cost, well capable of stunning their political suitors with their self-interested ingratitude. Before we fall into the trap of consigning the blame for every failure of the Grumpy Old Men to Labour, we should, though, remember Fine Gael is as responsible for the ongoing degradation of this Government's political currency. Labour may be experiencing a bad case of writer's block, but Fine Gael appears to have abandoned any attempt to construct a political narrative. The party's claim that it would bring a new ethos of reform to government has been collapsed by the utter ineptitude of three of its senior ministers. Phil Hogan, the former enforcer, is now a politically gun-shy public laughing stock who had to be saved from his own ineptitude on the house-hold charge by Michael Noonan. That fine fat sinecure for not so Cute Old Phil can't come quick enough for Phil, or Enda, or Fionnuala. The stature meanwhile of James Reilly is epitomised by the comment of one senior Labour mandarin that "we love him in Labour, we want to keep him in Health, he takes the heat off us," whilst Alan Shatter is, well, Alan Shatter is Alan Shatter and that is damage enough for any political party. The exiling of the defeated reformist wing of the party, Leo Varadkar and Richard 'the lesser' Bruton to the periphery of the 'Dear Leader's' court means that the template of the Fine Gael wing of this administration has been set by Kenny and Noonan. It would perhaps be cruel to say that their political performance has consisted of a latter-day version of masterful inactivity for the two doyens of the Grumpy Old Men have not been inactive. Sadly, they haven't been too masterful either. Instead Noonan, despite his status as the designated national grandfather, has essentially embraced the sort of elegant pessimism that believes there is little point in embracing too much change since generally all change is for the worse. Kenny, meanwhile, has been a Taoiseach without a purpose beyond hoping that if one waves to the people enough, a great rise in national morale will sweep away the greatest fiscal crisis the country has faced since the civil war. The natural caution of this duo is epitomised by the central strategic response of this administration to the fiscal and moral crisis which they inherited. They may have talked a great game in Opposition but in Government, just like their Fianna Fail/Green predecessors, appeasing heads were bowed as the Grumpy Old Men set about their task of being fiscal undertakers for the troika. The desperate spectacle of the leaders of a nominally free State acting as book-keepers for the troika is now reaping a bitter political harvest. In the Budget debate, loose threads are appearing everywhere and whilst the loss of a Colm Keaveney may be sustainable, should the Opposition pluck too vibrantly at the property tax issue, the entire thing could begin to unravel. And the loosest thread of all may arrive in three months time, for the end of the Budget will only facilitate the reopening of the even more challenging promissory note front. In fairness, a Government that may not be brave or clever but which continues to be politically astute has scented the danger courtesy of Pat Rabbitte's blunt 'can't pay, won't pay' stance. The somewhat disapproving response of Enda Kenny would have given Sir Humphrey a run for his money, but insofar as one could understand the gobbledygook about wanting to be "in a position to arrive at a conclusion", the kindest analysis was that the Government's ongoing policy of 'softee softee catchee ECB money' will be maintained. The Taoiseach had better hope it works, for if it doesn't, the bell signalling the end of the Government with the largest majority in the history of the State will ring a lot more swiftly. Last week may, however, provide the grey Grumpy Old Men with one critical lesson, for if they want to avoid such a denouement, Enda and the rest of the Cabinet should adopt the straightforward analysis of a Rabbitte as their domestic and foreign template. Such a move might not make the narrative any sweeter but it would imbue it with the rough honesty that people respect. Sunday Independent 
