politics
{ Ray Kinsella 
    December 06 2014 10:03 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/reform-bill-could-bring-a-new-era-of-positive-political-change-30805010.html }
The Dail will soon get an opportunity to put up, or shut up, about political reform. The Parliamentary Representation and Conscience Bill is scheduled for its second reading in the next few weeks. It is a private members' bill tabled by Peter Mathews, TD. If it is not impeded by the major political parties, it will - finally - give the Irish people a grown-up political philosophy to underpin whatever party arrangements emerge in the aftermath of the General Election. It is difficult to think of a public-interest issue that has generated more rigorous analysis than political reform. Nor is there any topic that has absorbed more printer's ink in newspaper column inches. The Irish Water charges protests have given enormous impetus to the public's desire for political reform. Political reform is widely seen as being mainly about political structures and political parties, based on ideologies or tribal allegiances. These are, of course, important, especially at present, when the established glacial orthodoxy in Ireland is fracturing. But the effectiveness of parties and structures rests on something deeper. It rests on the relationship between elected parliamentary representatives and the Constitution. This raises a number of questions: to whom should the TD ultimately be accountable - to party bosses, or to the people as a whole? Equally, with whom should the elected representative take counsel, when there are serious and substantive issues of conscience involved - the chief whip or their conscience? There need not be a conflict between, on the one hand, the expectation of political parties of a reasonable loyalty on the part of their elected representatives and, on the other hand, the expectation of the public that their TDs will not be bound by the orders imposed by an oppressive whip system. TDs should, instead, have an individual obligation to be representative of the whole people and to their own conscience. That is what 'political reform' should, ultimately, be about. But such a reflective model is anathema to the mainstream parties, where political power is esteemed far above individual parliamentary responsibility. The public do care about reform. The rejection, against the odds, of the proposed abolition of the Seanad shows this to be the case. But the most the public hope for is to preserve some vestige of parliamentary accountability in a Dail emasculated by treaties, the Troika, the Fiscal Council and, also, by shadowy groups that thrive in the penumbra of power. In the Dail itself, the matter of political reform is relished - much like the prospects of Ireland winning the Six Nations. When politicians are pushed, there are broadly two views on offer. The minority, glancing nervously over their shoulder, will say: "Well, of course, we need reform. But it's not going to happen." The second will respond along the lines of: "Reform? Why do we need reform? Sure, don't we have the best little system in the world?" For the mainstream parties, political reform has its place - between the covers of election manifestos and as a mild diversion at summer schools, but hardly in the domain of practical politics - real reform might lose them the election. The irony is that the status quo in the Irish system of parliamentary democracy - which has set its face against any 'reform' that does not simultaneously concentrate power in the centre - is not even 'Irish'. It's a mongrel amalgam bequeathed by the British, whose own system of constitutional governance is currently being radically reformed. Our legacy system of political representation is not remotely fit for purpose. Political principles are a 'moveable feast', to be traded for acquiring and retaining power. We have serious political scholars, but our political system does not have a philosophy. It is more a collection of cliches and blather that does not engage with the possibility that there are countries such as Switzerland where the people really are at the heart of the political representation. Ireland's is a cruel system that is intolerant of new ideas and differing views. It will not countenance reform itself, and it deters entry from those who would reform. It has led us to dark and dangerous places. The Parliamentary Representation and Conscience Bill grounds party politics in a philosophy that resonates with the people's experience and with their fears. It addresses the abuse of democratic representation in Ireland - and its vulnerability to intimidation, patronage and the suffocation of independent and reflective thinking. It is a very short Bill - basically a one-liner. It simply provides for transposing Article 38(1) of the Basic Law - the German Constitution - into the Irish Constitution. Article 38(1) was included in the Basic Law to prevent, ever again, the subversion of representative democracy in Germany. It confers a solemn individual and representative responsibility on all members of the Bundestag. Pressure on members to vote the 'party line' when they feel that to do so would be wrong is a violation of the Basic Law. It works - and it works within the context of a vigorous political party system. Party discipline is based on the convictions of members - and not intimidation from political handlers. There is every reason to believe it would work in Ireland, if it was given half a chance. Transposing Article 38 (1) of the German Basic Law to the Irish Constitution would simply involve amending Article 15 of the Constitution by inserting a new Article 16 whose wording would be identical to the wording of the second sentence of Article 38 (1). So, the Bill provides that: "The members of each House of the Oireachtas shall be representatives of the whole people, not bound by orders or instructions, and responsible only to their conscience". It would attract support from the overwhelming majority of voters. It would transpose Ireland into a whole new era of positive political change and innovation. What's wrong with that? Professor Ray Kinsella is an economist and affiliated to the International Academy of Retail Banking Sunday Independent 
