politics
{ John Drennan 
    January 17 2015 10:21 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/john-drennan/noonans-next-great-task-is-to-save-enda-fine-gael-and-labour-30915991.html }
It might appear to be the case that Michael Noonan would be an unlikely habitue of  Quentin Tarantino's Pulp Fiction.  However, throughout the lifetime of this Government he has become the equivalent of Harvey Keitel's 'The Wolf'. For those who haven't seen Pulp Fiction, 'The Wolf' is a 'cleaner' who sorts out crime scenes and disposes of any embarrassing evidence. Our canny Finance Minister certainly played this role to perfection when it came to the most embarrassing U-turn yet by this Coalition. Back in 2012, when it was first ushered into the world, the promise of a 'seismic deal' that would reduce Ireland's retrospective banking debt was marketed as the Coalition's great triumph. This was the 'Dear Leader' Enda's equivalent of the Good Friday Agreement, which would secure his political legacy. Last week, as the great 'seismic deal' on Irish banking debt finally did the decent thing by rolling over and dying, it was left to Noonan to play the undertaker's role. In typical style, the Finance Minister disposed of the mess on the political carpet so astutely, the great reverse was barely noticed. As Mr Noonan put the best foot forward by blaming Fianna Fail for €40bn of the debt and praising Fine Gael and Labour for sorting out (hopefully) €20bn of the banks' woes, the minister's claims that the glass was half full were decidedly optimistic. It was, however, enough of a bone to divert attention away from the dropping of the 'seismic deal' into a pauper's grave. For some, the minister's elegant retreat was symptomatic of his perhaps too-clever-for-our-own-good political style. In fairness, whilst the three-card trickery sometimes grates, at least Mr Noonan brings a bit of art to his political discourse. One of the more intriguing features of the rest of the current Coalition is how tin-eared they are when it comes to politics. They may occasionally be efficient administrators, but success in politics is about the capacity to seduce the voters. And these guys have, in that regard, been striking out a lot recently. Mr Noonan, by contrast, is one of the last of the political Mohicans who actually understands how to secure the support of the voters. His mastery of imagery and language has created the intriguing scenario where though Enda is the nominal 'boss-man', Noonan has become the glue that holds the Coalition together. This is both internal and external, for our designated national grandfather is, uniquely in this Government, surrounded by feel-good sentiments from an electorate who see him as being 'a safe pair of hands' who has the 'wise old head' and sparkling wit of Goldsmith's schoolmaster. They are not exactly glamorous traits, but in an unstable political landscape they became newly fashionable. And they are particularly critical within a Coalition which has been far less stable than outward appearances have suggested. This may be the Government with the biggest mandate in the history of the State, but its underlying fragility is captured by the departure of one-third of its original Cabinet for vastly varying reasons. Amidst all of this chaos and incompetence, Noonan's reputation has risen exponentially as he guided through three slash-and-burn budgets with minimum casualties. One of the more curious features of his status is that few finance ministers have retained a lower political profile than Noonan, who has often disappeared from public view for entire months. That very distance, however, may have secured the confidence of an electorate often suspicious of politicians who are too anxious to be loved. Ultimately, the most intriguing features of the Noonan reign is that his rising power has been a source of stability. Normally, given the succession vane in Irish politics, a powerful finance minister has the opposite effect. In this regard, Master Noonan is the best finance minister any Taoiseach could dream of, for whilst the 'Dear Leader' is certainly on the decline, it is unlikely Michael harbours too many dreams of tusking Enda out of the Taoiseach's office. Sadly after the initial enchanted years, life has not been entirely perfect for Michael recently. The great destruction wrought upon Budget 2015 which, far from rescuing the Coalition, instead, like some changeling child, lived and died in a day left the Finance Minister in a state of deep unhappiness. The minister's state of dolour will have raised concerns amidst the more discerning ranks of Fine Gael. He may for now be the 'Comeback Grandfather' of Irish politics, but there is a darker side to the Noonan fairytale. When he was elected to the leadership of Fine Gael in 2001, the expectation was that Master Noonan would sort out Bertie Ahern with the elan of a large Christian brother who has seized a chiseller robbing apples. Instead, Noonan's leadership evolved into a poignant morality tale about how politicians can shrivel under the pressures of power. The pressure is certainly back on Mr Noonan now, for what he does over the next year will decide the future of Fine Gael and the Coalition. The problem is that, as his past illustrates, if Mr Noonan has a fatal weakness it is that he is prone to occasional outbreaks of political melancholy. Or to put it at its cruellest, he is not always first on to the pitch when the battle is at its hottest. And it is all set to get pretty warm over the next 15 months as we prepare for one of the most crucial elections in the history of the State. Mr Noonan, having inherited and stabilised a bankrupt economy, finds himself facing the task of saving a Coalition sliding into political receivership. In theory, this should be Dear Leader's job, but the escalating political weakness of Kenny means that Mr Noonan - a politician who offers us the greatest proof yet that there can be happy second acts - must provide the necessary generalship. Noonan may be the original 'safe pair of hands' who has mastered the critical art of appearing to say something of utter profundity without actually saying anything. The erosion of Mr Kenny's own political position means Noonan must take real 'leadership positions' on national and internal political issues. His party colleagues will be fervently hoping that it goes a whole lot better than the last time. NAME: Michael Noonan AGE: 71 POSITION: Minister for Finance IN THE NEWS BECAUSE: Increasingly he is the only figure possessing the credibility, and more important still, the cunning to ensure the Coalition wins the most critical election we face since Bertie ambushed the poor naive Rainbow non-warriors of 1997 Sunday Independent 
