politics
{ Mary Kenny 
    May 11 2009 03:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/george-and-joanna-rescue-politics-from-the-doghouse-26535152.html }
So -- what do George Lee and Joanna Lumley have in common? Is it possible that they both represent a new way of doing politics? Mr Lee is moving from the public media role analysing the woes of the country to standing for the Dail: he'll find that answers are tougher than questions, but he is using the base of his celebrity to seek constructive political change. Good for him. While Ms Lumley -- if Tory leader David Cameron has any sense -- is a very likely future appointee to the House of Lords. Incidentally, for those who advocate the abolition of the Irish Senate, there might be another pointer to "modernisation" here: a second chamber can be a most useful forum for individuals who have made a political (or other notable) contribution to the common weal, but do not wish to seek direct political power. What they can bring to the service of the public is experience, and, in the triumphant case of Joanna Lumley, a passion for a cause. In a week when Westminster politics was falling apart with charges of financial corruption and snouts in the swill of public expenditure -- with characters like Hazel Blears, the outspoken Lancashire redhead regarded as a future potential leader, in the spotlight for embellishing three homes at the taxpayers' expense -- Ms Lumley seemed like an untainted angel of light crusading for the rights of Gurkha regiment soldiers to live in Britain. Joanna -- best known to older TV viewers for her role in 'The Avengers', and to slightly less older ones as the incorrigible Patsy in 'Absolutely Fabulous' -- fervently embraced the Gurkhas' cause initially because her own father's life was saved by a gallant little Gurkha (they come from Nepal, and often are short of stature, but fierce in fighting). Although, as Joanna's followers have pointed out, all kinds of folk are allowed residency in Britain -- from Afghan aeroplane hijackers to Romanian rapists -- the men who served in the Gurkha Regiment had no such entitlement, because they were not part of the Commonwealth. But just like Moses -- and indeed Bernadette Devlin when she first appeared at the House of Commons, calling out in ringing tones "Let My People Go!" -- Joanna had one, simple, clear message. If a man is prepared to die for a country, he should be allowed to live in it. It couldn't be simpler. The Gurkhas have served Britain for 200 years: they should be permitted residency. The one, uncomplicated, clear message was echoed left, right and centre. Joanna Lumley has many advantages as a public figure: a celebrity profile, a mature beauty, and -- an under-rated virtue these days -- a beautiful, mellow Cordelia-like voice. But she also showed, over the past week, that she had some shrewd political instincts, and effectively boxed her opponents into a corner with the easy grace of a chess grand master. She never indulged in "ya-boo" politics -- as in raining insults on her opponents. Quite the contrary: she was extraordinarily polite. She gave a televised press conference in which she used an advocate's skill, Portia-like, saying that Gordon Brown was a person of utmost integrity, that he had a moral compass (Gordon seldom leaves off about his famous moral compass), and that he would surely do right by the courageous Nepalese soldiers who had unstintingly given their all for the defence of the realm. So, when Gordon Brown met with her -- although previously opposed to allowing the Gurkhas their residency (on the advice of the Treasury, I am told) -- he was so dazzled by her sweet words about his integrity, that he found himself entering into an implicit agreement. His Immigration Minister Phil Woolas was also turned to gentle mincemeat by Ms Lumley: the TV clip of her charmingly coaxing a "Yes, they can stay" out of him is a little like the kindly Head Girl of a school for young ladies giving a tutorial to a backward younger pupil. Woolas walked right into a exquisitely laid trap when he said that allowing the Gurkhas to come to the UK could "open the floodgates" so that any soldier, right back to the Second World War, could claim asylum. "But I'm an old-age pensioner, Mr Woolas," replied Joanna, her voice dripping honey with just a tinge of sharpness, "and I was born after the Second World War." (She was born in 1946.) So there couldn't be many living vets from 1939-45 seeking residency, could there? The whole campaign has been a triumph for Lumley (who has won the public's outright support for the Gurkhas, and is assured of a final victory in the cause) -- especially at a time when politicians in general are, to put it mildly, in the doghouse of sleaze. The case also shows there are other ways of doing politics, besides the usual path of joining a party and getting a seat. Voting certainly brings legitimacy to a candidate, but there is more than one way to skin a cat, in that unlovely phrase: there are also more elliptical routes to political influence. George Lee has won his spurs by his economic expertise in the public forum of the TV screen: and he seeks to bring that knowledge to the sphere of political power, and the service of the country. His path to that goal has been different from those in the party political system. Joanna Lumley does not want direct power, but she has shown that she can muster political influence through the adroit use of a well-timed and inspiring public campaign. Such fresh faces are good news for political discourse at a time when the electorates are open to fresh ways of organising democracy. mkenny@independent.ie 
