politics
{ Anita Guidera 
    December 06 2013 09:36 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/soldier-of-destiny-or-shameless-opportunist-29817280.html }
When I met Colm Keaveney (42) for lunch in his native Tuam on September 25, there was no hint that he was on the cusp of joining the party he had so recently described as a corrosive and destructive force. But what was in evidence on that sunny September afternoon was a smooth-talking and ambitious politician who couldn't mask his distaste for the isolation he felt as an Independent TD, as the new Dáil term got under way. "I went from being the highest speaking TD to being cut out, left without a voice," he said bitterly. Self-assured, bordering on grandiose, he talked up the need for a new type of politics, his fearlessness of elections and how he had never chosen the soft or populist road. "People want conviction politics. You get what you see with me," were his parting words. Before last Tuesday's bombshell, I had spent five days trying unsuccessfully to contact the Galway East TD to update this interview for publication. I suspected something was afoot but figured he might have been on the verge of declaring his candidature for the European elections. In the light of what has now emerged, his passionate calls for a new type of politics in Ireland that day must be viewed through a different lens. In hindsight, there were some clues. Over the relaxed two-hour lunch at the stylish Corralea Court Hotel, there was scarcely a word of criticism for the party he once claimed had run the country into the ground. All his ire was vented towards Labour, his political home for 20 years. Vacillating between restraint and abandon, he repeatedly berated Labour leader Eamon Gilmore, brandishing terms like "brass neck" and "machoism" and alluding darkly to the clinking of champagne glasses in Sandymount. Labour under Gilmore, he said, was in "terminal decline". Both men are Galwegians who honed their political skills in student and trade union politics but he was scathingly dismissive of the obvious parallels. He pointed out that, unlike Gilmore or Pat Rabbitte who were "unelectable" in their home constituencies of Galway and Mayo, he had maintained his roots in the west. "The reality is if I was to choose the soft road, or the easy road, the populist road, I would have bailed out of this constituency and looked for a leafy suburb in Dublin," he sniped. He grew up, the son of a publican and the youngest of six, around the corner from the Corralea Court on High Street. His family was not very politicised, he recalled. "I was never indoctrinated. I couldn't say to this day how they vote. It was always the local man." Impressed by Dick Spring, a "giant in Irish politics", and the role he had played in the Northern Ireland Peace Process, he was drawn to the Labour Party. "That whole era had a very big, strong impression on me. "I gravitated towards what I believed was a cleaner, more straightforward party. "I was more comfortable with the value systems they ascribed to. I felt my value systems were most compatible with that. "If I was interested in populist politics, I would have joined another political party," he echoed. How he has taken the tough road is a recurring theme in his rhetoric and his story is littered with references to American politics. "I suppose it's the whole American thing. You can never be your true success unless you fail a minimum of three times. "I lost two general elections. I lost more than I won but I never lost a seat that I took and anything I have ever won, I have fought for and retained. Nothing was ever given to me easy. It's the only way I know things." He recalled campaigning through the freezing temperatures of the winter of 2010 and how the electorate was baying for blood. "The vast majority of people who supported us in the general election, in actual fact, lent us their support. I remember people who had for the first time ever in the lineage not voted for Fianna Fáil. "I have a vivid memory of how profound the economic situation was and the lack of hope there was. "Labour in power had promised a tsunami of reforms, a bonfire of quangos. We were going to change the world." Labour, he said, had failed to heal the fears and divisions that had been manipulated by the previous government and had broken a faithful pledge to the people who had lent it their support. "The most cynical thing you can do to offend the public is to betray them". But he insisted the experience hadn't left him cynical. "I pinch myself at how lucky I am to have what I have. It is without doubt the greatest honour to have people put faith in you and I know I have done it right." Married to Deirdre, whom he described as his "rock", he's up before 6am every morning to walk the family labrador and fix lunches for their three sons, Luke (13), Liam (10) and Naoise (5). He does the school run before embarking on the two-and-a-half-hour journey to Dáil éireann. Although unhappy as an Independent TD, he seemed nonplussed at the prospect of being part of any new political party. "The public underestimates the difficulties in creating a new political party. "Certainly there is an appetite out there and a need for new politics but the current political system prevents the emergence of new politics." It seemed on that day at least, his focus was on the possibility of running in next year's European elections. Big on his agenda would be revisiting how the blanket guarantee came about and examining how Ireland could be relieved of the €200bn debt. "The solutions to Ireland's problems don't rest in Dublin any more, they rest in Berlin. "All of these cuts will mean nothing at the end of the day, if we don't resolve how we got into this problem with the €200bn debt and how we are going to socialise that debt across Europe." But he was clearly troubled by how he would meet the considerable campaign cost, which could be in the region of €200,000. "I haven't two red pennies to rub together. I have lost everything to the party. They have taken everything back. It is a very uneven battle." Otherwise, he seemed buoyed at the prospects, vowing he would top the poll and blithely dismissing the current crop of MEPs. "Europe for them is about group water schemes and roads and, yes, while that's an important part of Europe, in terms of our strategic interest at the moment everything is immaterial until we can get this debt question answered." When passers-by inquired about his well-being, he adopted a mock wounded demeanour. "Doing well now under the circumstances," was his stock reply. A local man who runs a successful property business in the Mediterranean slowed to pass the time of day. "You wouldn't have a 'shtart' for me, would you?" joked Keaveney, in seamless Tuamese. "You'd never know," came the bemused reply. Indeed. Irish Independent 
