politics
{  
    September 13 2014 12:38 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/how-dr-no-turned-into-a-chuckle-brother-and-made-history-30583840.html }
Ian Richard Kyle Paisley had a lengthy career full of discord and division, religious conflict and political confrontation that spanned the course of the Troubles. And yet in his utterly-astonishing final phase, he became a peacemaker, turning a somersault which landed him in government with one of his life-long enemies, one-time IRA commander Martin McGuinness. Arguments will continue for decades as to why exactly this 'road to Damascus' conversion came about, but perhaps the key factor was that, after decades as the agitator, in 2004 he finally found himself as the leading figure within Ulster unionism and therefore in line for the post of First Minister. For decades he had mercilessly harried those in mainstream unionism and the major Protestant churches he considered too soft, too ecumenical and too accommodating. This was after all the man who had declared: "Are we going to agree to a partnership with the IRA men of blood who have slain our loved ones, destroyed our country, burned our churches, tortured our people and now demand we become slaves in a country fit only for nuns' men and monks' women?" Since the 1960s he was a towering figure - both politically and literally - in the small pond of the North. He had a huge appeal for many of his fellow-Protestants, who looked to him as a source of strength in times which they viewed as changeable, insecure and dangerous. The charge against him, levelled by many within Unionism and most outside it, was that he first helped start the Troubles and then helped to keep them going through incendiary anti-Catholic and anti-nationalist rhetoric. He dismissed such allegations with his trademark guffaws and counter-attacks, brushing aside allegations that his intemperate style could have cost lives and made reconciliation much more difficult to achieve. To accusations that he fostered disharmony and helped keep the two communities apart, he cheerfully entered a plea of guilty. During one sermon he summed up his philosophy: "If you compromise, God will curse you." Ian Paisley was the son of a Baptist preacher. Ordained a minister by his father, he went on to become moderator for life of his own sect, the Free Presbyterian Church. In the 1960s he became a formidable street demagogue before turning to party politics. He came to the fore when his threat to remove an Irish tricolour flag from republican premises on Belfast's Falls Road spurred the authorities to move in and seize the offending flag. Many were injured in the resulting two days of rioting between republicans and police. It was the first of scores of Paisley agit-prop stunts which he staged first against the Catholic church and later against the civil rights movement. It was an extraordinary career, encompassing the pulpit, marches and rallies and two brief spells in jail, a career packed with incident and drama, with a thousand demonstrations, diatribes and walkouts. He was a major cause of the breakup of the one-time monolith of the Ulster Unionist party, which had until the 1960s successfully acted as a broad church for almost all strands of Protestants and Unionists. Terence O'Neill, Unionist prime minister in the 1906s, struggled to refute his accusations that Unionism was going soft. At first derided as a pantomime demon, Paisley's success at the ballot-box demonstrated that he had political as well as rhetorical clout. Other troublesome figures had been bought off by being brought inside the fold. But since Paisley was not interested in joining any team there was no real way for O'Neill or anyone else to silence his disruptive dissent. He staged an almost ceaseless series of demonstrations, among them a protest against the lowering of the flag on Belfast City Hall to mark the death of Pope John XXIII. He led a thousand supporters in a protest against "the lying eulogies now being paid to the Roman anti-Christ". His flair for articulating - and amplifying - the deepest fears of many Protestants meant he harvested votes in large numbers. He formed first the Protestant Unionist Party and later the Democratic Unionist Party, which was to constitute a force in unionist politics throughout the troubles. In 1966 he launched the 'Protestant Telegraph' weekly newssheet and the Ulster Constitutional Defence Committee, a "united society of Protestant patriots". From this sprang the Ulster Protestant Volunteers, whose members featured in many street clashes. In the same year there were violent scenes during a Paisley demonstration at the Presbyterian General Assembly meeting in Belfast. The fact that the media were universally antagonistic towards both his beliefs and his methods was in the end of little moment to him: he realised at an early stage that any publicity was good publicity. Although the media tended to portray him as an anachronistic crank, it became obvious that he had substantial support within a section of rural and working-class Protestants. His mix of religious fundamentalism, political opportunism, personal charisma and talent for self-publicity was a potent one. When the descent into widespread violence came in the late 1960s the official report into the disturbances by Lord Scarman cleared him of either plotting or organising the disorder. But it commented that his language was "likely to rouse the enthusiasm of his supporters and the fury of his opponents," noting with regret that the price of free speech was often "exaggeration, scurrility and abuse". By the mid-1970s his DUP was taking an average of 11pc in elections, which was a solid base but not large enough to surpass the main Ulster Unionist party. However, his loud voice and flair for showmanship meant that he was always a highly visible figure. British ministers who had dealings with him generally found him frankly impossible, none of them ever managing to build him into their attempts to build political initiatives. Former British prime minister James Callaghan accused him of "using the language of war cast in a biblical mould" while prime minister Edward Heath called him a demagogue and a wrecker. Even John Major, normally slow to criticise, described him as mischievous, histrionic, and "hell-bent on destroying" his peace efforts. His own verdict on British politicians was equally damning: "When I consider the drunkenness, lewdness, immorality and filthy language of many MPs, I care absolutely nothing for their opinions. Ulster Protestants are not interested in gaining the goodwill of such reprobates." His insistence on being the boss led him to have his own party, his own church, and even his own personalised version of the Orange Order. The charge levelled against him by his numerous enemies was not simply that he was anti-Catholic or anti-accommodation but that he coarsened Northern Ireland politics. His instinct of going for the jugular, particularly when dealing with rivals within Unionism, was accompanied by a relish for rude and unpleasant personal attacks. Yet he could switch in a moment from growling belligerence to an unnerving charm. He was also a devoted family man. He could on occasion be quite hilarious, either in private or public. These mood swings, always unpredictable, led former civil servant Maurice Hayes to give this thumbnail sketch of his larger-than-life character: "He is a complex personality. I have often thought there are about six Paisleys. Two of them are very nice people, two quite awful, and the other two could go either way. He worked unceasingly for all his constituents regardless of religion." All the condemnation never cost Paisley an hour of sleep. "He sleeps like a baby," his wife Eileen once said. To his mind, he was very obviously never in the business of winning friends and influencing people. The only audience he cared about was the Ulster Protestant, and in the process of increasing his support within that enclosed world cared little for what others thought. He proved the greatest individual vote-getter the North has ever known. His best performances came in European elections, when everyone could vote for him personally. These victories, in addition to boosting his ego, served as ominous reminders to successive Ulster Unionist leaders that many of their voters harboured Paisleyite sympathies. The result was to create a permanent inhibition on leaders who contemplated accommodation. For most of his career Paisley stressed that he was dedicated to the dictates of the ballot box: he even incorporated the word "democratic" into the name of his party. Yet everyone knew that he had on occasion flirted, and more than flirted, with dark paramilitary forces operating outside the law. His dubious associations fell into several phases. In the late 1960s some of his early followers took to activities such as setting off bombs. Rumours that Paisley was acting as a mastermind remain unproven and are probably untrue. Then in 1977, after years of condemning the loyalists which had killed hundreds of Catholics, Paisley somersaulted and linked up with them to stage a large-scale strike. When the stoppage failed he coolly reverted to denouncing his one-time allies as murderers who besmirched the Protestant cause. In the mid-1980s he closely associated himself with a technically legal but highly dubious group, Ulster Resistance, which staged theatrical rallies attended by uniformed men. Paisley himself, to thunderous applause, donned the organisation's red beret. By the time some members strayed into illegality, however, he had dissociated himself from the whole thing. This familiar pattern of a feint in the direction of militancy, followed by a hasty retreat did not alienate Protestant voters. It did however generate wry smiles among nationalists, as he criticised republicans from a posture of pure pacific democracy. One part of his epitaph will be making the DUP the primary Protestant party and keeping it that. Other parts will be full of irony: that the great opponent of the peace process should have become one of its main political beneficiaries, that the great opponent of accommodation should in the end come to countenance a deal, so personally close to Martin McGuinness that the two became known as the Chuckle Brothers He was in his 80s by the time his party, and indeed his church, decided the time had come for him to step down, and he was scalded when the men in grey suits tapped him on the shoulder. His was an outsize personality, a man who put little or no effort into winning friends and influencing people outside the Unionist community and who therefore collected a huge number of enemies. His late apparent openness to reconciliation will be remembered; but his long-standing reputation for bigotry, intolerance and trouble-making will not soon be forgotten. Irish Independent 
