politics
{ Mandy Johnston 
    September 02 2014 10:27 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/holidays-are-over-as-politics-returns-with-think-ins-30557052.html }
As the political silly season comes to a close and the salubrious summer schools are but a dim and distant memory, the real political activity will commence again next week. This will come courtesy of the annual political party conferences or "think-ins", as they are known in the fish-bowl of Leinster House. Traditionally, think-ins are used as a vehicle by party apparatchiks to provide a platform for their political masters to set out their respective political priorities for the forthcoming Dail session. If everything goes according to plan, such gatherings provide easy access to a travelling press corps with open microphones and empty column inches. This guarantees coverage for well- rested and reinvigorated TDs to begin again with a new and improved political agenda. However, as we know, in politics things are rarely that simple. As the main parties and their friends from the media gather in sumptuous hotel settings outside the Pale, what normally ensues is a political version of 'It's a Knock Out'. The back-room spin doctors endeavour to stay on message as members of the pesky press attempt to knock them off course. Awkward questions from political-news-starved journalists coupled with unscripted comments by TDs during unscheduled, dreaded "doorstep" interviews have at times created some very tricky situations that are more reminiscent of the Wild West than 'The West Wing'. Party conferences may sound like a perfect opportunity to brainstorm politically high ideals - one would be forgiven for thinking that whiteboards and felt-tip markers are ten a penny - but think-ins are much more about what goes on outside the work rooms than what happens inside. The reality is most of the conclusions are agreed well in advance. In simple terms, it is an away day of political choreography. In addition to public representatives, carefully selected non-elected speakers are chosen to introduce an element of credibility to proceedings. External speakers, who are not overtly linked to the party, deliver more integrity when it comes to political coverage. Sure, who believes a politician any more? An example of this was the attendance of Father Sean Healy at the Fianna Fail conference in 2004. No one remembers what Fr Healy said, they just remember that he was there. Party conferences have become more important recently because of their proximity to the announcement of the annual Budget in October. Political correspondents watch developments closely to assess party priorities to spot potential kite flying for the Budget or possible dichotomies in policy preferences, particularly between the coalition partners. The opposition parties will be afforded an opportunity to set out their own stall and tell us about their plans also. However, with the Budget looming, all eyes are really on the Government at this juncture. We can anticipate even more fevered activity than usual as the Government parties will try might and mane to promote a cohesive agenda which puts them back into the driving seat. Battered by a series of political developments, post troika departure, (mostly of their own mismanagement), Fine Gael and Labour limped to the summer recess and must have welcomed the final day of the Dail with all the enthusiasm of a primary school child on the last day of school. New ministers have had the summer to read themselves into their briefs and decide where their priorities lie. With a Budgetary Estimates (spending) process ahead, that leaves little room for self-determination - every choice they make now is crucial. Finally, we should not forget the all-important party conference photo-call. The think-ins provide a fabulous, fun-filled day of photo opportunities and frolics. Expect lots of smiling faces, back slapping and meaningless finger pointing. Pictures of women in bright new colourful suits and lots of middle-aged men in grey suits holding cups and saucers as they sip their Lapsang Souchong tea. God forbid you would be caught on camera with an obesity inducing fizzy drink or a pint of plain in your hand. That's the other thing - sure, no one ever drinks at a party think-in! Irish Independent 
