politics
{ Mandy Johnston 
    October 08 2016 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/mandy-johnston/budget-will-consolidate-new-politics-into-reality-35113746.html }
Until very recently, Budget day was seen as the main set-piece of the political year for the public and for members of the fourth estate. General elections aside, the annual Budget is essentially a party political pageant, used to portray the economic and political character of the Government. It was a veritable bonanza of keynote speeches, marathon day-long TV and radio coverage, with photo calls and press opportunities galore. If you are looking for intrigue and suspense from Budget 2017, do not waste your wifi. It's mostly on the pages of newspapers and on social media already.   Thrill-seekers beware, Budget 2017 is likely to be about as satisfying as a Kinder Surprise - nicely packaged, heavily promoted and you might even get a fleeting sugar rush. However, expect to be disappointed with the token present cocooned within, it will probably be gone from your pocket by the end of the week. A combination of increasing EU demands for advance approval and clearance on fiscal matters and domestic political interests claiming credit for measures that make the final cut has resulted in most of the Budget detail being in the public domain before officials even print off the minister's speech. Nonetheless, the political system clings to the dying and increasingly redundant tradition of Budget day. Interested actors will play their parts, waving Budget briefcases, while a sceptical public looks on with suspicion and self-interest.   Any remaining 'known unknowns' for Budget 2017 will be trotted out in the Dáil on Tuesday as the Government outlines its spending and taxation plans in earnest.   Political observers will slavishly scrutinise the set-piece in search of evidence that the objective of this Government goes beyond the fiscal implications: they will look at the politics of this Budget.  However, there is something unique about this year. As this is the first Budget from the coalition of Fine Gael and a collection of Independent ministers, it will be important to look at how the ministers are allocating funds and not just what they are spending money on. Tacit external support from Fianna Fáil is to be tested for the first time to see if long-term planning extends beyond making it to the end of the year.  With more than a billion euro available for tax cuts and spending increases, Minister for Finance Michael Noonan and Minister for Public Expenditure Paschal Donohoe will be busy with their crayons this weekend, putting the final touches to what they hope will be a masterpiece of political cunning and clever accounting. But, crucially, is there any vision and long-term planning beyond individual survival and political ambition? In times of economic prosperity, the Budget, for all its failings, is still seen as the mechanism by which Government rewards people with largesse by increasing spending and reducing taxation.  As a spectacle, there are largely three elements to the Budget - or financial statement, to give it its technical name.  Those elements are: taxation, spending and vision.  The suspense of the taxation element has largely been taken away from us - stolen by wily Michael Noonan, who let all the air out of the tyres when he announced the guts of the taxation package to his Cabinet colleagues a number of weeks ago.  The entry point to the USC charge is likely to be raised - a costly measure, but one he must make if he is to make good on at least one Fine Gael election commitment to reduce USC (he actually promised to eliminate it, but that is not likely). A line in the sand was drawn on taxation before any bartering with Fianna Fáil really began. Clever.  This will not stop Fianna Fáil claiming victory on the two-to-one ratio of spending to taxation. This is a development that may never have happened if Fine Gael were in a more powerful position than it is now.   Ironically, Fianna Fáil's insistence on the weighting of spending over taxation helps the Independent ministers most - as they are the ministers who get to spend, spend, spend.  Katherine Zappone is simply beside herself, killed caring about the underaged. Not since RTÉ's Tommie Gorman pleaded with Roy Keane in Saipan has the refrain 'what about the children?' rung so loudly in the national psyche.   At the other end of the spectrum, the elderly are in danger of being over-run with the love and affection of politicians. Fianna Fáil, which is flexing its political muscles for pensioners by demanding a €5 increase in the State pension, is in danger of coming out the loser if less is delivered.  The aftermath of the Budget will consolidate 'new politics' into a political reality.   Fianna Fáil nervously waits to discover what 'confidence and supply' support really means. There may be enough to placate the Fianna Fáil leadership, but the real test of a Budget only comes in the days following, when TDs depart the capital for their clinics. Then the real test begins.  And so for the third leg of this shaky stool - the vision.  In its first five months, the Government has not presented itself as a cohesive collective.  Similar to its issues with Labour in the previous administration, Fine Gael has difficulty playing on a team that takes in players who do not come directly from its own gene pool, and the art of political cooperation still looks as if it is beyond the leadership and the backroom teams. They have spent their time bargaining over the airwaves with ministers who are supposedly already committed to Government.   To date, the only vision and motivation of the Government's main players seems to be political survival or ambition. Presentation and communications will play a pivotal role in Budget 2017, and so far, this Government has not covered itself in glory in terms of public relations.   It has a chance to change all of that on Tuesday.  Mad men of Madison Avenue, watch out.  Irish Independent 
