politics
{  
    July 04 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-teflon-taoiseach-has-become-unstuck-25937623.html }
Bertie Ahern's once-solid bond of trust with his public has ruptured into open hostility. And now it's  hitting where it hurts him most - in his refuge from the turmoil of political life, the football ground. BRIAN DOWLING reports Throughout the last government, the Taoiseach's elder brother never once felt compelled to give testimony to the old adage "blood is thicker than water". In recent months though, it has only been a matter of when, not whether, Maurice Ahern would enter the fray. The elder Ahern could live with the flak that has engulfed the Taoiseach since the General Election in May last year, as long as it remained within the political sphere. 'I'm a purist, I suppose. I still believe that sport is sport and politics is politics. They shouldn't be mixed," Maurice reflected this week. It is a measure of Bertie Ahern's fall from grace that the public anger in the aftermath of the election has followed him into the country's sporting venues. Croke Park, Lansdowne Road, Dalymount Park or Tolka Park were once safe havens away from the political cauldron. They offered a secure refuge to unwind and simply enjoy the little leisure time the Taoiseach actually manages to fit into a hectic schedule. As the seeds of last year's election triumph continue to bring a bitter harvest, the Taoiseach is paying the price. Once, his Teflon coating was impregnable; now it looks increasingly ragged and worn. There were times during the last government term when it seemed that nothing would ever break the remarkable bond that Bertie Ahern had forged with the public. It was a simple chemistry - people liked Bertie and he loved them. It was a uniquely personal rapport, nurtured and sustained by the public belief that whatever else happened, they could depend on Bertie. Above all, they trusted him. Almost unbelievably, Mr Ahern has managed to do what no other politician would have dared to believe possible; he has ruptured that bond of trust. It has manifested itself in the polls over the past year, the often raw hostility in radio phone-ins and television chat shows and even in the simmering unrest in his party. Most hurtful of all, though, it has spilled over to the football grounds. His one refuge from politics has been taken from him. His presence at major football games, whether soccer or GAA, has been attracting scorn and booing from sections of the crowd. Not even the near sanctity of the spectacular opening ceremony for the Special Olympics at Croke Park could spare him. As he took to the stage in an arena graced by Eunice Shriver and members of the Kennedy family, Nelson Mandela, Muhammad Ali, Roy Keane and U2, along with other big names from sports and entertainment, the Taoiseach faced the indignity of booing when some of the 80,000 spectators used the opportunity to vent their anger. Last Saturday was the final straw for Maurice Ahern. He went with family and friends to Clones for the Dublin-Derry clash. The booing of the Taoiseach by a small section of the crowd cut deep. He had already witnessed this new phenomenon in Croke Park and Lansdowne Road. Maurice Ahern won't say it, but it's clear the hostility from the stands and terraces is hurting. Throughout last weekend the latest episode in Clones festered away until he could no longer let it go. On Monday morning, he drafted a letter to the national newspapers complaining that the Taoiseach's lifelong commitment to sport, and especially his beloved Dubs, deserved "acclamation, not disdain". It was almost a cry of despair. At times over the past year, the Taoiseach's Fianna Fail-Progressive Democrats Coalition Mark 2 has appeared to be the living embodiment of the Groucho Marx dictum that "politics is the art of looking for trouble, finding it everywhere, diagnosing it incorrectly and applying the wrong remedies". Some of those sentiments were evident this week as the Taoiseach found himself again in the wars, this time over the resignation of Feargus Flood from the planning tribunal. In truth, much of what happened was outside his control, but crucially, he brought needless trouble down on his own head by not informing the Dail sooner about when he knew of the judge's intentions. A survey of the bigger political landscape shows that after five years of surfing the greatest economic boom in the history of the State, the Government is facing a mountain of problems, all of them deep-rooted and few of them tackled in any meaningful fashion when the resources were plentiful. The scale of the reforms needed in the health service would be enough to test the mettle of any government. Alas, it's not just the health service - it is also the roads, rail, schools, crime, disability, agriculture and the economy. The Celtic Tiger has been well and truly buried and if the economic trends evident in the mid-year Exchequer figures released this week continue, Mr Ahern's government could find itself joining the Celtic Tiger in the political boneyard. Bertie Ahern and Fianna Fail have tried and failed to shake off the charge that they conned the public in the General Election. Privately, senior figures in Fianna Fail accept they have lost that battle. It is time to try to move on. The change of tack was taking place behind the scenes even as the Government was planning its defence of the first year in office. The defence was planned for months, with the aim of launching a counter-attack in May consisting of Fianna Fail's own documents and the Government's first-year progress report. The strategy exploded in their faces. As Fianna Fail launched a document defending last year's election campaign, Fine Gael obtained government documents showing the extent to which communities around the country were hoodwinked with election promises on school building projects. Likewise, the publication of the Fianna Fail-Progressive Democrats progress report descended into farce when it initially appeared no questions would be allowed. Yet, if anything epitomised the capacity to look for trouble and find it everywhere, it was Education Minister Noel Dempsey's surreal attempt to re-introduce third-level fees without any political support from his own ministerial colleagues or the PDs. In the midst of all this, Bertie Ahern quietly asked P J Mara, the man who steered him to two election victories, to return to the helm. Since last May, Mara has been holding almost weekly meetings at Fianna Fail headquarters with the Taoiseach's inner cabinet of Gerry Hickey, Mandy Johnston, and Gerry Howlin. In recent times they have been joined by Peter McDonagh, who previously served as a policy advisor at the Taoiseach's department. The aim is to restore order and direction to a government that has been floundering since it returned to office and in so doing to halt the slow, but steady, downward slide. Morale and confidence have been badly dented, especially by some of the self-inflicted political wounds. Some senior party figures dare to hope the political blood-letting that marred the first anniversary of the return to government might mark a turning point. "We've had a bad year. All the accusations about conning the public erupted openly in May and June. It was like lancing a boil. It's been done now and there's no point in looking back; we need to focus on the future," said one insider. In a sycophantic biography, 
Bertie Ahern, Taoiseach and Peacemaker, published in 1998, Mr Ahern also looked to the future and a life beyond politics. "I would love to be the president of some sporting organisation. Any sporting organisation. GAA, soccer, athletics. I love sport," he mused. Politics and sport have always been the two great passions of Bertie Ahern's life. It is understandable that Maurice Ahern rues the fact that the political flak is now flying at hallowed sporting venues. But the cheap stunt involving a plane carrying a 'Thank you, Bertie' banner flying over Croke Park at the closing ceremony of the Special Olympics shows some of the Taoiseach's supporters also remain only too ready to exploit sporting occasions to suit their political ends. 
