politics
{  
    October 30 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/democracy-lies-wounded-as-military-hail-pfp-victory-26261527.html }
Last week, the convention that the military stay out of political matters was broken over the issue of joining the PfP. Gene Kerrigan ponders the implications HOW COME there isn't a big fuss about the politicisation of the military? We are in the process of being taken into a Nato programme called PfP. There's not much point complaining about this, as the Nato supporters have the deal sewn up. Pressure was put on by Nato countries, decisions were made behind closed doors. A commitment to a referendum, given at the last election, was discarded. The public has no input into such matters. So: game, set and match to Nato. However, in the course of bringing us into the Nato programme, the political establishment had the vocal support of the military establishment. This was casually accepted. It is allegedly a cornerstone of parliamentary democracy that the military stands aside from all political matters. There is a very good reason for this. The military in any nation possess all the hardware they need, to at any stage take over the running of the country. They have the tanks and the guns and the command structure. Huge numbers of heavily armed soldiers are trained to unquestioningly accept the orders of their superiors. In theory, in order to protect the citizenry from the potential ill-effects of such a concentration of raw power, the military firmly suppress any political aspirations, on any issue, within their ranks. In theory, the army is a tool, totally at the disposal of the civil power. The senior ranks accept orders from that civil power as unquestioningly as the lower ranks accept orders from their superiors. If senior officers guardians of a formidable source of power develop political positions of their own, they risk putting themselves on a par with the civil authority. At a minimum, this could potentially result in pressure being felt to adjust defence policy. It could mean the civil power having to consider ``what will the army think?'' of one policy or another, trimming its sails to accommodate a potentially powerful opponent. At the extreme, it could lead as it has done in countries from Chile to Pakistan to politicised officers deciding to take over the running of a country where the civil power is acting in a manner which the officers believe is against the national interest. In Chile, an elected government with as real a mandate as Bertie Ahern has was shot and bombed out of existence by its own military. That isn't likely to happen here next month or next year; there is no suggestion that the current military establishment has any such tendencies. There is political stability. But that hasn't always been the case, it may not always be the case in the future. And the convention that the military stays out of political matters has been broken, and there has been little comment. ALL of this, incidentally, is basic civics, elementary democracy. It should be as natural to a serving army officer as saluting is to a private. That the military establishment breached this convention is no small matter. It began with statements commenting on the desirability of membership of the Nato programme. Traditionally, former officers are used when the army's political position is being expressed. That happened, and those asking for the promised referendum were dismissed by a former chief-of-staff as ``self-appointed'' cranks. But it went further. A serving senior navy officer publicly enthused about the prospect of enjoying Nato manoeuvres. The current chief-of-staff of the army expressed his approval of the Nato programme. Last week there was embarrassment after the military had to withdraw from its website a premature celebration of the Dáil vote to join the Nato programme. The position of senior military ranks on this political issue has been trumpeted. All of this went unremarked upon by the political establishment. They share the military establishment's enthusiasm for the Nato programme. It wasn't until Proinsias de Rossa asked a question about this, that the Minister for Defence, Michael Smith, expressed his ``concern that members of the defence forces should not make any comment whatsoever on matters of a political nature''. There was no suggestion that any officer who had made such comments would be taken to task. Suppose the chief-of-staff of the army had criticised the move towards the Nato programme. Suppose he had expressed a political position opposed to that of the political establishment. Would he have been reprimanded?  Is military intervention on political issues okay as long as it backs the Government line? That the intervention occurred is regrettable. That the political establishment was so ready to find the intervention acceptable is more than that. 
