politics
{ Alan Ruddock 
    December 07 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/press-council-is-bad-news-for-a-free-and-honest-media-26237702.html }
POLITICIANS like to fret about public perception: they worry when they are all dismissed as a bunch of crooks, are hurt by suggestions that they are overpaid loafers  and are worn down by the unrelenting demands of their constituents. The Tribunal Age  has helped to foster ever deeper public cynicism about politics; it has helped, too, in the rise of Sinn Fein as a political f POLITICIANS like to fret about public perception: they worry when they are all dismissed as a bunch of crooks, are hurt by suggestions that they are overpaid loafers and are worn down by the unrelenting demands of their constituents. The Tribunal Age has helped to foster ever deeper public cynicism about politics; it has helped, too, in the rise of Sinn Fein as a political force on this side of the border. For those with short memories, or conscious amnesia, Sinn Fein represents politics without the taint of corruption because no businessman, or developer, has ever lobbed squillions at a Sinn Fein TD or councillor to win a vote. Mention the far deeper corruption of Sinn Fein's attitude to democracy, or its addiction to violence and you are met with bemusement, or downright dismissal. It is the cruellest twist of all that the cynicism brought down by the tribunals has also, for far too many people, pardoned Sinn Fein's years of terror. And yet our political leaders, for all their hand-wringing concern about public perception, rarely miss an opportunity to increase the cynicism. Charlie McCreevy, the Minister for Finance, super-sized the concept of parish-pump politics on Wednesday when he announced plans to scatter the civil service to virtually every electoral ward in the country without so much as a whiff of a thought-through and justifiable strategy. It was a stroke: nothing more, nothing less, and it was designed to distract the public - or at least their go-betweens in the media - from the dullness of a budget that was concerned, primarily, with paying public sector wages. It demonstrated, too, the chaotic nature of this leaderless government (of which Michael Smith remains a member): instead of a decisive decentralisation plan, we get scatter-gun politics to placate rumbling party rebels rather than to create more efficient government. A tough call would have been to identify a small number of areas for high concentrations of civil servants, but that would have caused the now customary cabinet revolt. Mr McCreevy is not, sadly, an aberration: his announcement was greeted by toe-curling cries of self-congratulation from government TDs as they fell over themselves to tell their constituents how their relentless endeavours had delivered scores of jobs for the community. Pork barrel politics, as Gay Mitchell, the Fine Gael TD, so rightly called it. And yet they wonder about public cynicism, and blame the media when they can. The power, and abuse, of patronage is a cornerstone of our political culture, whether it shows through a stroke like 'Politicians dislike the media, blame it for their ills and constantly seek to influence it by fair means or foul' Charlie McCreevy's, or through the hundreds of appointments to State boards, review groups, prison visiting committees: anything, in fact, that is at the discretion of the governing party or parties and can be doled out as reward to the party faithful, regardless of merit. With appointments, whether to the board of Aer Lingus, to the RTE Authority, the Arts Council, the Broadcasting Commission and, in time, to the new Press Council that is on its way, come prestige, status and some perks. No fortunes will be made, but the lucky recipients can strut a little more proudly and can feel grateful to the man, or woman, who has bestowed such an honour upon them. It will, too, encourage others to be a little more conscious of the service they can give a political party if they want to participate in the next round of largesse. We accept the culture mutely. When ministers make scores of appointments in the dying weeks of an administration, we shrug: that's the way it's done. We may, subsequently, complain about the performance of a state-owned company, like Aer Lingus, or Aer Rianta, or Iarnrod Eireann or even RTE, yet the pattern of appointing people because of their party affiliations, rather than their specific expertise, receives only sporadic condemnation. Every party does it (though Fine Gael, under Garret FitzGerald, was said to be exasperated by his naive belief that appointments be made on merit), so political outrage can't be taken seriously. Patronage is the currency of Irish politics; there can be no sustained campaign against it. Its inevitability, its unavoidability, make Michael McDowell's fascination with a government-appointed Press Council doubly dangerous. No matter what protestations to the contrary, it is a given that party loyalty and party service will play a role in determining its members (as well as, one would suspect, a hint of mischief). Politicians dislike the media, blame it for their ills and constantly seek to influence it by fair means or foul (like vexatious libel claims); a Press Council is a perfect opportunity to exact revenge, especially since it is proposed that the newly formed council author a code of practice for journalists. Manna indeed. It is, of course, possible that a political appointee can be competent, but if he or she is, that is a pleasant accident: it was not the reason for the appointment. There are exceptions. Emily O'Reilly was a brave choice as ombudsman. She is independent, bloody-minded and not afraid of confrontation. John Waters, the former and current Irish Times columnist, has just joined the Broadcasting Commission of Ireland, a role in which he may prosper. He has outspoken, and credible, views on media responsibility and will take his position seriously. The idea of a government-appointed Press Council should be resisted in any democracy, but in our own, where politics is contaminated by unbridled patronage, the concept is an even greater abomination. There is no possibility - absolutely none - that it can be created by government in a way that is free from political influence, and no possibility that it will not interfere with the print media's freedom to publish - a freedom that is already heavily constrained by the existing laws of the land, and soon to be further restrained by a privacy law. If there has to be extra regulation of the media, then it can only come through a rigorously thought-through system of self-regulation, working to a concise code of ethics that covers off those areas of media intrusion and error that aren't already punishable in the courts. For it to work smoothly, there needs to be a reform of the defamation laws (otherwise, for example, a swift apology by a newspaper will still be construed, legally, as an admission of liability); it is not a hugely complex issue, and neither should it be hugely contentious. The bottom line is clear, and simple: government regulation of the media is undemocratic and must be resisted. If it is allowed to happen, prepare for the worst. In time the Press Council will accumulate its share of loyal party servants, its membership just another dollop of patronage waiting to be served up. And the politicians wonder why public cynicism continues to grow. 
