politics
{  
    April 21 2015 11:34 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/deaths/obituaries/taoiseach-led-the-many-tributes-to-liam-31159241.html }
The death occurred on March 14 of Wexford native Liam O'Neill. Liam (77) who died at Dalkey Lodge Nursing Home, Liam was the beloved husband of Thérèse and loving father of Pádraig, Éamon, Declan and Bairbre.  Taoiseach Enda Kenny led the long list of tributes to Liam who hailed from Bernadette Place. Liam was a political journalist and analyst for the Irish Examiner for 30 years prior to his retirement in 2001.Taoiseach Enda Kenny said he was saddened by the death of Liam and heralded the former journalist's work 'Liam was a very astute political analyst and a very experienced journalist having written about most of the big political stores over the last number of decade. He was well respected by all politicians and the political writers who worked around Leinster House and will be missed. Liam learned his trade at the Wexford People newspaper before his move to the Irish Press in the late 1960s. From there he joined the Cork Examiner to become its political correspondent. Irish Independent editor Fionnan Sheehan said Liam was an enormous encouragement for him to get involved in political coverage adding he had huge admiration for him. 'As a young reporter starting out covering politics Liam was always hugely encouraging to me and always willing to share his vast knowledge. A thorough gentleman, his integrity shone through in his coverage of politics for the Cork Examiner, the Examiner and the Irish Examiner.' A keen gardener Liam was a devoted family man and was also a well known contributor to radio.  Tánaiste Joan Burton said she was saddened to hear of Mr O'Neill's death. 'Liam was a fine journalist, an incisive and insightful political analyst, but most of all, a true gentleman', she said.  Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin said Mr O'Neill was a leading political journalist who covered a wide range of stories over the course of a 30-year career. 'He was a well-known figure in Leinster House during his time as political editor with the Irish Examiner. Liam was a true gentleman who always gave a fair hearing to people from all walks of political life. He regularly met groups visiting the Dáil and would be very generous with his time for them.; A retired colleague, Jim Morahan, who worked with Mr O'Neill for many years, said he was a very principled person. 'A highly accurate journalist, he confounded other political correspondents when he accurately forecast that Jack Lynch would lead Fianna Fáil to a landslide victory in 1977,' said Mr Morahan. Mr O'Neill joined the Irish Press in the mid-1960s before joining the Cork Examiner, as it was then. He was made political editor in 1991 and covered all of the major political events until his retirement in 2001. He is survived by his wife Thérèse, children Pádraig, Éamon, Declan and Bairbre, son-in-law Adrian, daughter-in-law Lisa, grandchildren Thomas, Elizabeth and Isabelle, his brother Sean, sisters Lal, Celine and Marie, extended family and many friends.   Wexford People 
