politics
{ AIDAN O'CONNOR 
    June 28 2011 03:15 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/enniscorthyguardian/opinion/tribal-differences-likely-to-persist-in-our-politics-27248191.html }
IF PAT Rabbitte was to achieve nothing else for the duration of his political career, he'd get my vote for standing up to a member of the audience on the Frontline TV programme a few months back. You might remember it, when a member of the audience lashed out and told the panel of politicians (that included Pat Rabbitte) that 'ye politicians are all the same'. Surprise surprise, fiery Pat lost the rag, telling the audience member that he was sick to the teeth of being told 'ye're all the same'. You see, Pat was merely echoing what most politicians affiliated to political parties really feel. They hate being told they're 'all the same'. Coming up to the last general election, the last thing practically every politician wanted – including some Fianna Failers – was to be told they're no better than the shower of Fianna Failers who had messed up the country. The key to success in the last election was to play the ABF card – Anything But Fianna Fail. The trouble is, Pat and the majority of politicians who have gone before him have failed to explain - in ordinary and simply language - why it is that they're 'not all the same'. Because for so many voters and taxpayers in this country, politicians are a species and members of the varying political parties are merely a specific breed. By in large, most of us see politicians as cute hoors, thundering hoors or lying hoors. But they're all hoors, nevertheless. This at best is a pity and at worst is just downright flippant and blatantly wrong. Rabbitte was right: They are not all the same and there are distinct differences between the main political parties. But the problem at the root of that perception is the very same as that which lies at the core of the disconnect between politics and the electorate – communication. For years now, political parties have tried to distinguish themselves from each other on the details of fiscal, economic, taxation, education or public expenditure policy. They like to think that they have succeeded. Anecdotal evidence, at least, would suggest they have failed miserably. Fianna Fail didn't get annihilated at the last election because droves of the electorate believed they had the wrong policies. A more likely explanation was that the electorate believed Fianna Fail made a complete mess of implementing whatever policies they had. And an unquantifiable yet significant portion of Fine Gael's success must surely be owed to the fact that they simply weren't Fianna Fail. The publication this week of the history of tribal differences between two of the main political parties, Fianna Fail and Fine Gael, is bound to be of interest to some. But it does little in helping to answer the one question that still hangs on the lip-verges of most floating voters: What is the difference between the two parties? The research found that after identifying the surname origin of every one of the 1,100 TDs ever elected, 64 per cent of Fianna Fail TDs have names of exclusively Gaelic origin, compared to 51 per cent of Fine Gael TDs. And more Fine Gael TDs were likely to have old or new English surnames. Those findings support a widely-held view amongst voters that Fianna Fail and its predecessors are a bit more Republican than Fine Gael and that Fine Gael and its predecessors are a bit more pro-British than the rest. To an extent, that is historically true. But is also true that party politics continuously evolves. It is shaped primarily in response to shifts in the needs and views of the electorate. As of now, the differences between the main parties don't lie so much in what needs to be done as in more how parties plan to do it. For example, practically all political parties favour a reasonable personal taxation system; the differences in policy are found in the detail of tax rates and tax bands. Good Friday, 1998, was a marvellous day for this island. It marked the end of many years of work in efforts to bring about lasting peace; the beginning of a new way of life for thousands north and south of the border. But it also marked a consensus between all the main political parties on the one issue that had identifiably distinguished them for so long: The Northern question. Not alone did all of the main parties in the Republic agree on peace, they all agreed on how to bring it about. Perhaps it was the final nail in the coffin of civil war politics. And God knows that was no harm. So as of now, personality politics still prevails. Local elections are the proof. All over this country, party politicians are still romping home in council elections despite their party performing poorly in national polls. The converse is also true. It would be too personal to name individual TDs whose knowledge of policy on any issue could be written on the back of a cigarette box – yet they sail home at election time. For a very significant amount of us, we still vote for who we like best, who we think works the hardest, who has been most hard-done by in the past or who is the best hoor among the pack of hoors. Party policy still doesn't shape the landscape of national and local government. It doesn't because political parties and their representatives continue to fail to tell us why they're not all the same. And that's a pity, because Pat Rabbitte is actually right. 
