politics
{  
    September 18 2010 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/cowens-got-to-change-and-heres-how-to-do-it-26681811.html }
After the week Brian Cowen and this country have just had, we could ask: does our drinking culture have a politics problem? Bleary-eyed, remorseful and embarrassed, our fragile Morning (after) Ireland mood has not been helped by the tut-tutting of the international media. By yesterday afternoon, the story of Brian Cowen's early-morning blues had been reported by 500-odd news organisations in 26 countries around the world. Fianna Fail initially tried to blame Simon Coveney's tattle-telling tweet, before prodding the Taoiseach into making the kind of half-hearted apology you hear from hungover types who still can't see what all the fuss is about. Those defending Cowen have tended to be mostly from an older demographic who are more understanding about a man having a "few social pints". Many younger voters have been pointing to fit, energetic and health-conscious leaders like Barack Obama and David Cameron and making unfavourable comparisons with our own Taoiseach. The apologists talk about our famous drinking culture asa part of who we are and a big part of how business here has always been done, especially for our largest political party and the favoured few who caroused through the Celtic Tiger years inside a booze tent at the Galway Races. It is the image we present to the world. When major political figures visit Ireland (including, in the past, US presidents Reagan and Clinton), the main photo opportunity always sees them standing in a pub with a pint glass in their hands. In France, statesmen are brought to the Louvre, in Ireland, we bring them (and the world's media) to the nearest pub. They celebrate heroes of the past like Charlie Haughey, who resurrected his political career by spending years on the rubber-chicken circuit with Brian Lenihan, getting his pint spilt by the back-slapping, grassroots boyos who wouldn't get a look-in when the party moved on to Patrick Guilbaud's. Politics in the US (where John F Kennedy once drank daiquiris late into the night with his favourite newspaper men) and most of Europe may have largely sobered up. But Irish political life is still largely lubricated by alcohol. "We have a drinking culture in politics because we have a drinking culture in Ireland," says David Cochrane, online editor of the politics.ie website. "In Irish politics, it's accepted. It's always been done on a wink and a nod." "What happened this week was that the people outside the traditional press corps brought up the issue and suddenly made it okayfor the journalists who were actually there with Brian Cowen in the bar to talk about what went on." Cochrane says fans of the classic Irish political heave have spent most of the week watching Cowen being inched towards the trap door. "We initially saw all of the ministers and backbenchers standing with Brian Cowen on Tuesday when he tried to kill the story and put the blame on Simon Coveney. "Since then, the backbenchers have gone very quiet. They are not falling over themselves to support the party leader and you have Micheal Martin talking about lessons that have to be learned and Chris Andrews tweeting that Brian Cowen has questions to answer. Brian Cowen may be hanging on to the leadership simply because no cabinet minister with any sense would want to take over the party now." Cochrane says his website, which has 26,000 active registered users, had its "busiest day since we set up eight years ago" after the Taoiseach's Morning Ireland interview on Tuesday. And he says his website registered around 10,000 new international visitors, who had found their way to politics.ie by using search words including "Irish Prime Minister + Drunk" and "Irish Leader + Hangover". "It's embarrassing for this country. The perception of Brian Cowen's behaviour is reinforcing a negative image we have internationally," says Cochrane. The online editor points out that young Irish people trying to start a career abroad do not need to be going to potential employers "worrying about this paddy-whackery, drunken Irish stereotype that has got a lot of play internationally this week". Fine Gael MEP Sean Kelly, in his previous role as president of the GAA, took on the drink culture within the association by setting up a national drugs and alcohol awareness programme, run today by designated officers in every GAA club in the country. Now in Brussels, Mr Kelly says that while getting out and meeting people is a big part of his job, he does not miss much of what is euphemistically called the "socialising" involved in traditional Irish politics. "You do face a lot of demands to socialise and sometimes, like when I have been off the drink for Lent, I have got resentment from some people, just a small few but it is there. "You might ask for a glass instead of a pint and be told that there is no way you're having a glass, so I've found that if you just have a bottle that keeps people happy. But it's difficult if you don't want to join in, there comes a point in the night when you either endure it or just leave." The Munster MEP believes that a culture which called on politicians to be one of the boys and drink with the best of them is now dying out. "People want to see focus and commitment. I really don't think the vast majority of voters care any more about how good you are in a social setting. Hopefully that part of Irish politics is dying out." There is no doubt that late nights and too much to drink affect productivity and performance -- the most recent study estimated the cost to the Irish economy of alcohol abuse at €1bn a year or 3pc of GDP. Researchers also identified a problem dubbed "presenteeism", a term that refers to workers coming to work hungover, turning up without actually working and being accident prone. Studies carried out suggest that workers involved in "presenteeism" may actually cause more problems for businesses than those who simply stay at home with a hangover. "There is no doubt that the misuse of alcohol has a very serious effect on the Irish economy," says Dr Declan Bedford of the faculty of Public Health Medicine at the Royal College of Physicians Ireland. "Unfortunately, it is an issue that we have consistently failed to face up to. It is very difficult, politically speaking, to take action because the drink industry are such powerful lobbyists." Dr Bedford believes that urgent action is needed on the issues of alcohol sponsorship, advertising and education for young people in particular. There has been much speculation that this week's events will finally change the drinking culture in Ireland. However, David Cochrane is not convinced. "It may go behind closed doors but it is not going to go away," he says. "As long as alcohol is such a big part of Irish life, it's going to be a big part of our political scene. Lessons won't be learnt here, unfortunately. "All you are going to see is a couple of lame jokes about early mornings at the next Fianna Fail conference and maybe the party handlers in the hotel bar telling the lads to keep it quiet." Irish Independent 
