politics
{  
    June 19 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/dont-turn-away-from-politics-young-people-urged-27550318.html }
THE MAYOR of Sligo, Sinn Fein Cllr. Sean MacManus has claimed that a whole generation of young people are in the process of turning their backs on politics and political life as a result of ongoing political corruption scandals. In a speech delivered to a meeting of Sligo/Leitrim Ogra Sinn Fein (SF Youth) activists in Ballinamore, Cllr. MacManus said that unless the political establishment and the establishment parties get their act together and root out once and for all those involved in corruption and dishonesty, those involved in allowing it to happen and those who helped to cover it up, then the brightest of Irish young people would turn their backs on what they view as a corrupt system. "Young people are the future, untainted by the misdeeds of certain political parties of the past two decades. We need their input, their enthusiasm, their ingenuity and their vision if the public are to regain any confidence in the political system or in politicians in general. "The days of cronyism and shady dealings in Irish political life, which has done such damage to the reputation of politics in general, must come to an end. While many of us are involved in politics for genuine reasons, representing individuals and local communities in a completely honest and open manner, those politicians and parties engaged in wrongdoing over the past few decades have damaged the reputation of us all and have brought politics into disrepute,'' he said. He concluded: "I want to urge young people however, not to allow these people to win. I want to urge them to involved themselves in politics at every level, to ensure that they are registered to vote and to use that vote to create a brighter future for themselves. The active involvement of young people is a necessity if political life in this country is to regain any form of credibility and to prevent a whole generation of our youth from turning their backs completely on the political system as a whole.'' 
