politics
{  
    December 01 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/political-differences-laid-aside-to-bid-final-farewell-to-charismatic-former-minister-27125114.html }
THE heavens opened as Patrick S. Donegan made his final, poignant journey from the Church of the Immaculate Conception in Tenure on Tuesday afternoon; the heavy rain adding to the tears of pain and sorrow for Irelands greatest Minister for Defence. Political differences were forgotten as public representatives of all allegiances united to bid a final farewell to the charismatic former Deputy, who died last weekend at the age of 77, following a long illness. It was the final chapter in a colourful career, during which he served Louth as a Fine Gael TD for 22 years, and was credited with revolutionising the structure of the Defence Forces. After ‘Nearer my God to Thee’, the opening hymn at Requiem Mass, his son Vincent and daughter Annette, took the first readings. Chief celebrant and a relation of the Donegan family, Fr. Sam Millet, told mourners how Paddy Donegan had lived the full span of life and fulfilled his years in a full and fruitful way. A man with ‘burning vitality’, he was also a big-hearted and generous man, without guile, a principled man who would never deliberately hurt anyone. Fr. Millet recalled that during one General Election campaign, Paddy, who was at that stage busily immersed in the cut and thrust of political life, remarked: ‘I’m sorry I can’t wait, I’m going out to knock sparks off Fianna Fáil.’ A friend to everybody, there was a keen sense of loss at his passing, but his life and death were joined today by another life and death, that of Jesus of Nazareth. Fr. Millet said in wintertime, death was all around, growth had come to a standstill, but when one of our human family died, someone who walked, talked and laughed with us, we were compelled to ask why. Even in Paddy’s latter years, when his health deteriorated, he was full of life, and then came the awful silence of death. ‘We believe that in Jesus of Nazareth, there was something, some energy, some power that cut through death, and that was the resurrection. There is a truth in saying that Paddy Donegan will not be buried today, but our faith is that Paddy is alive for ever with the living God,’ said Fr. Millet. ‘With his big heart and his generous nature, he is keeping a banquet and a place in heaven for us all.’ During the Prayers of the Faithful, special mention was made of Paddy’s wife Olivia, and her tireless love and devotion to her husband. Some of their grandchildren presented symbols of his life during the presentation of the offertory gifts. Among them were a book on Michael Collins, a briefcase, a riding cap, racing colours and a yachting outfit. Sympathies were passed to Paddy’s wife, Olivia, their daughters Rosanne and Annette, and sons Vincent and Thomas. Their loving husband and father was laid to rest in Monasterboice cemetery. Among the mourners were former Taoisigh, Fine Gael leader John Bruton and Liam Cosgrave, Deputy Brendan McGahon, Senator Fergus O’Dowd, Mayor of Drogheda Councillor Frank Godfrey, Drogheda Town Clerk, Brendan Hoey; Councillors Oliver Tully, Terry Brennan, Finnan McCoy, Michael O’Dowd, Captain Michael Tracy, ADC to President Mary McAleese, Cmmdt. Michael Kiernan, ADC, Taoiseach Bertie Ahern and Lt. Col. David Griffin, representing Chief of Staff, Lt. Gen. Colm Mangan; Fine Gael Chief Whip, Charlie Flanagan, former Senator Larry McMahon, former Minister Tom O’Donnell, former Ceann Comhairle, Tom Fitzpatrick, Deputy Seymour Crawford, former Minister Paddy Cooney, Deputy Michael Bell, Conor Cruise O’Brien, MEP Avril Doyle, Senator Paul Coughlan, Deputy Gerry Reynolds, former Minister Padraig Faulkner, many other family members, former colleagues and friends. Clergymen included Auxiliary Bishop of Armagh, Dr. Gerard Clifford, Fr. Kevin McArdle, CC, Tenure, Fr. Brendan Dorian, PE, Kilsaran, Fr. John Hanratty, PE, Termonfeckin, Fr. Patrick Kelly, PE, Mell, Fr. Larry Caraher, PP, Tullyallen, Fr. Martin Kenny, PP, Mell, Fr. Stephen Duffy, PP, Monasterboice, Fr. Robert McCabe, Defence Forces chaplain, Gormanston and Monsignor Francis Donnelly, PP, Drogheda. TRIBUTES to the late Paddy Donegan have been pouring in since the former Louth TD and Minister for Defence died on Sunday. Described by some as forthright in his opinions, by others as ‘a man of the people’, but by all as an extremely able politician, Mr. Donegan’s passing is considered the end of an era in Louth politics.  Fine Gael TD Brendan McGahon said that Paddy Donegan was a colossus in Louth politics and a very significant figure in his national political career. ‘Paddy was an extremly straight person and had that certain border bluntness which many of us have. He never spoke out of the side of his mouth, you always knew where you stood with him.’ ‘He was an engaging conversationalist and I respected him all my life. He was a great colleague of my old dad on Louth County Council. No one will ever forget his uncompromising stance against the IRA which in the early 1970s caused so much damage to the Irish nation.’ ‘He and Paddy Cooney and others made a very solid opposition to the IRA which is in total contrast to today’s politicians and their politics of appeasement. He served the people lf Co. Louth and of Ireland extremely well and while some of the liberal pinkos in the press attacked him over the O Dalaigh affair, he never lost any stature here in Louth.’  Minister for Social, Community and Family Affairs Dermot Ahern TD said that when he first entered public life in 1979, Mr. Donegan was on Louth County Council and he described Mr. Donegan as a politician with ‘a keen social conscience’. ‘He was one of those people I was in awe of’, the Minister said. ‘It wasn’t often that he spoke, but when he did speak, everyone stopped to listen and it was usually something very profound. Any time I came across him in public life, you could see he was a very able politician with a keen social conscience. I would like to pass on my condolences to his family’.  Michael Bell TD was Mr. Donegan’s successor to Dail Eireann in Louth in 1982, a year after Mr. Donegan retired. ‘In my opinion, Paddy Donegan not only served the constituency of Louth as a Fine Gael TD, but also made a major contribution to the industrial and commercial activities of the town of Drogheda and the County of Louth. He was in my opinion a gentleman. I was very proud to say that when he retired as TD in Co. Louth, I replaced him. ‘I don’t think anybody can underestimate the contribution that he made in particular as Minister for Defence. He took the Defence Forces out of the gutter in one fell swoop. He was forthright in the sense that he always spoke the truth and said what he had to say truthfully, and I admired him for that. He will always be remembered for the contribution he made to the many hundreds of people he employed and the service he gave to farming. I would look on Paddy Donegan as a man of the people. He always had the common touch and could mix with millionaires or people on social welfare. He could straddle the differences between the various sections of the community and that was one of his greatest attributes. ‘On behalf of my wife Betty and I, I would like to convey to his family our deepest sympathy and regret on his death.’  Philomena Bell, Mr. Donegan’s Secretary for 24 years, expressed her sadness at the passing of ‘one of Louth’s most beloved sons’. ‘It was my great privilege to serve with Paddy (PS as he was affectionately known) at local level and in his Department of Defence from 1973 to 1977, and later in the Department of Forestry and Fisheries. He was held in the highest esteem by all who served under him in these departments because of his caring, outgoing, down-to-earth personality and his great ability to deal competently and devotedly with all matters connected with the various portfolios. ‘His work for the constituency was ceaseless, covering from Drogheda to the Cooley Peninsula and very often beyond the environs of Louth into Northern Ireland from where many requests for his assistance came. Hours of work meant nothing to Paddy. He had a great concern for law and order and an intense dislike of violence. His generosity was immeasurable. ‘Paddy’s devotion to his wife Olivia (to whom many tributes are due) and to all the members of his family was limitless and to them I extend my most heartfelt sympathy in their terrible loss. Paddy was a big man - not alone in stature, but in generosity of heart and brilliant mind. The big man passed away on the Feast of Christ the King. May he grant to Paddy the reward which eluded him in this life when he crosses the great divide’, Ms. Bell concluded.  Senator Fergus O’ Dowd said: ‘Paddy was a tremendous character and a dedicated public representative. He was a first class Minister and a real family man. He was a great soldier for Co. Louth and fought very hard for the county, particularly mid Louth and south Louth. ‘Since he ceased being a Minister, Drogheda has lost out. He was at the centre of power for many years. Of course he was a very colourful character and very outspoken, but I think that made people like him all the more. He was respected for being so forthright. While on Drogheda Corporation, he worked hard for the people of Drogheda and particularly places like Pearse Park and Ballsgrove. But he was very popular in all parts of town. ‘He definitely had cross party support within the county during his time as a Minister. He was always present at St. Patrick’s Day celebrations and was the life and soul of those occasions. He was a great employer and employed many many people over the years. ‘In the farming community, he was very well known and well respected. His wife Olivia was always at his side and they were very much a couple. You could always rely on the Donegans to turn up at the Fine Gael conventions’.  Fine Gael leader John Bruton described Paddy Donegan as one of the best Ministers of Defence the country had ever had. ‘He was deeply committed to ensuring that the armed forces had the equipment they needed to do their job’, Deputy Bruton said. ‘He had a deep affection for all those who served at all ranks in the armed services and this generally assisted their morale at a time of almost unprecedented threat to the security of the state. Paramilitary organisations were exceptionally active and brutal in their methods and Paddy Donegan’s work in strengthening the armed forces of our democratic and accountable state was a vital contribution to the preservation of democratic life on this island. ‘Paddy Donegan was a successful businessman and farmer. He brought this expertise into politics and acted with distinction as a Fine Gael front bench spokesman on business and agricultural matters. He had a direct, no-nonsense style and was able to speak his mind effectively in the Dail. ‘He had a personal intense loyalty to Liam Cosgrave and to the traditions of selfless public service and to the Fine Gael party. He had a lively mind, an infectious enthusiasm and an unparalleled capacity to endure adversity. Despite his illness, he continued to support Fine Gael functions in his later years. To his wife Olivia, and to all his family, I extend the deep sympathy of the Fine Gael party’.  Deputy Seamus Kirk also extended his condolences to Mrs. Donegan and family. ‘He was a TD for Louth for all of 27 years. In that time, he had a colourful political career. He was a senior cabinet Minister from 1973 to 1977 and made a very significant impact on the development of the defence forces. He was a very able representative for the constituency of Louth and really was a father figure for Fine Gael in Louth. His passing is a great loss not only to his wife and family but also to the wider Fine Gael organisation. ‘He had been successful in business and brought a direct decision-making to politics. It was unusual for the time to have such a forthright political style, but his supporters appreciated that’.  On behalf of Drogheda Corporation, Mayor of Drogheda, Cllr. Frank Godfrey said that Mr. Donegan had served the people of the town and Louth well during his political career. ‘He was a very flamboyant politician. He did a lot for the people of Drogheda, particularly in the 1960s. He was a very popular figure in Drogheda and did a lot of good work for the people, he will be remembered most in the area for that public service. He always took a keen interest in the affairs of the town and always got a good vote here. ‘He was a very likeable politician who acted very bravely while serving as Minister for Defence’, Mayor Godfrey continued. ‘When running for the Dail, there was a lot of great competition between him and Padraig Faulkner. He was also very popular with the Army, he was very much a man who put a case forward for the army in this area, particularly Gormanston, and for the improvement of the Defence Forces. The Corporation will be extending its sympathy to Mrs. Donegan and family’.  Current Chairman of Louth County Council, Nicky McCabe said that Mr. Donegan had been a very able Chairman during his seven years in that role. ‘It’s the end of an era, really’, Cllr. McCabe said. ‘He worked very hard on behalf of the people of Louth in general. There were many political arguments I had with him in my time, but we always ended up the best of friends. He was a tough political opponent who could have a heated argument with you, but it would all be forgotten the next time you met him. ‘He was a very generous man and gave good employment to many people. He will be remembered with affection by everybody who knew him as a good, honest man who worked hard and was very approachable. He was a very good Minister for Defence’. 
