politics
{  
    October 07 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/battle-of-the-sexes-we-dont-have-the-time-26323223.html }
The three of us are convinced that we are being very Sex and the City meeting up for drinks mid-week after work. "And I'm definitely Samantha," says the friend. She explains: "I always assumed that I had a pathetically boring love life but according to the Irish Times I'm an out and out tramp." She is referring to the rather astonishing news published last week which stated that on average, Irish women had between one and three partners. And no, that's not per year, it's per lifetime. "It doesn't give a percentage for women who have had more than 10 partners," says 'Samantha', "So that means most women I know aren't represented in that survey". "Yes, they are," says the 'Miranda' of our group. "They're the ones who found the lack of a '10-plus' category so hilarious that they wrote down 'virgin' instead." "Well, if I'm a tramp, at least I'm an honest one," says 'Samantha', "And I also pay for my own drinks," she hands her credit card to the waiter and nods at the table beside us where three twenty-somethings are enjoying the patronage of much older men. Which brought us a discussion on the main finding of the aforementioned report: that the most important issue for most Irish women today is financial independence. Neither of my friends are married and argue that for them, financial security is much more important than for women with husbands. (I'm not sure if I agree with that point, especially as we all know a couple of women who married precisely so that they could achieve financial security.) Strangely enough, after financial independence, the most important thing in their lives is not their partner or children but personal grooming. It's hard to know how to take this. Do they mean making sure they brush their hair and put on a bit of lippie before they leave the house in the morning or are we talking botox and boob jobs? I have a dreadful suspicion that it may be the latter, as Jordan currently outsells the Booker nominees on both sides of the Irish Sea. And despite the fact that most women value equality between the sexes, few will admit that feminism has any importance in their lives. Hello? There seems to be some sort of contradiction here. How on earth can a person value equality and have no time for feminism? Feminism is all about equality. And not that ridiculous 'new' feminism which seems not just to tolerate but cultivate cultural sexism, but the old feminism. The feminism that got us the vote; that lifted the marriage bar; the feminism that got a train to Belfast to buy contraception and when the gardai tried to confiscate it told them to go get their own. I know that by calling myself a feminist, I am likely to be viewed as out of touch by a younger generation, who grew up believing that equality for women was what their grandmothers had to fight for. The battle has been won, so they say. We now live in a post-feminist age where women can pole dance, strip for lads magazines, enhance their breasts to ridiculous proportions and engage in public girl-on-girl snogging because they want to and not just to curry favour with the boys. But what have we won? We don't have equal pay and we certainly don't have equal representation in government. In Ireland we don't have the right to choose whether to continue with a pregnancy or not. But for the majority what the women's movement has achieved seems to be enough. Most women now work for financial gain, contrary to our Constitution's admonishment that a woman's work should be within the home. Mind you, most women still do the lion's share of the housework. So even if they do work as long and as hard as their male peers in the outside world they do not do so to 'the neglect of their duties within the home' as De Valera's manual for a perfect patriarchal family says. Which doesn't leave the average woman much free time for taking much interest in what's going on around her. According to the report last week, participation in any type of leisure or sporting activity drops off as women get older and have families. And this may be one of the reasons (but certainly not the only one) why politics ranks as being of little importance to women in Ireland today. This is, quite frankly, a shocking revelation. The level of female participation in political life is also appallingly low. In this country you seem to need to be called 'Mary' and have a brother or father a TD before you can choose a career in politics. Politics in Ireland is seen as belonging to a particular group of insiders, who regularly jostle for power between themselves but who are viewed by an apathetic population as 'each being as bad as the next'. And what does politics have to do with the twenty-something surgically-enhanced Posh wannabe who goes to lap dancing clubs with her boyfriend? Or the forty-something mother who just wants to collapse at night with a Chardonnay and the latest Cathy Kelly? Well, I hate to break everyone's comfortable little stupor, but politics matter. (And I don't just mean what goes on in Dail Eireann). It's only through politics that good laws can be made and bad ones changed. It's due to politics that equality legislation was introduced and that boys have the right to buy condoms over the counter; that women can take the pill. Can't get your mother a bed in the hospital? That's politics. Can't find a school nearby with a multi-denominational ethos? Ditto. Love the new bridge over the Liffey? Hate the smoking ban? Well, I don't have to go on do I? I'm sure you get the picture: Politics matter because when you join the dots everything we do is political. We need to start seeing the big picture and realise that the public impacts hugely on the private. I'm not advocating that we all run out and try to be the next Mary O'Rourke or Niamh Breathnach, although that's always an option. In Australia, they have a political party called "What Woman Want", which is a party dedicated to advancing issues that affect Australian women. I'm not suggesting that we establish a similar group here -- just think of the derision from the 'post-feminist' brigade -- what I'm saying is that women need to acknowledge how much politics really affects their lives and act accordingly. And not just leave it to the men. Because, naturally they will end up making laws that suit men -- not women. It's not that long since it was legal for a man to rape his wife, or when a woman had to leave her job when she got married. Vigorous political activity from women changed these laws. Whether they admit to being feminists or not, the vast majority of women believe that equality is very important in their lives. Well, if that's the case they need to protect that equality and get political. It's the only way we can ensure that all our future 'Samanthas' can continue to enjoy a rich and varied sex life while paying for their own drinks! 
