politics
{ Eoghan Harris 
    December 10 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-weak-in-politics-shall-inherit-rte-26419552.html }
LAST Sunday's Week in Politics was the most pretentious programme I have seen for a long time. This was not the fault of Frank Luntz. It was the fault of Sean O'Rourke and a reverential production team who fawned over a group of fake floating voters and a pompous panel, both of whom suffered from a severe case of hindsight. Hindsighters have no shame. Hence, the hindsighters who supported the invasion of Iraq and are now inveighing against it. Hence, those who first predicted that Bertie Ahern was finished, changed their minds after his chat with Bryan Dobson, and could be seen changing it, yet again, on the Week in Politics - when, after a full seven weeks, they told us they had not been taken in at all. Let me pause to put a rhetorical question. Suppose in 1939, Neville Chamberlain and the British people knew that declaring war on Germany would result in the deaths of some 51 million people on the Allied side. Would they have declared war or demanded further "diplomacy"? The reason I call the question rhetorical is because any retrospective answer has no moral value. We have to act in the here and now. We see a child trapped in a burning house, we have to pull the child free. Even if he later grows up to be Saddam Hussein. * * * BUT there is a big difference between pundits who can make an educated guess about the near future and hindsighters who pomp away about the recent past. Among the former are commentators like Marc Coleman, business editor of the Irish Times, who in the course of a penetrating critique of the Budget, gave Fianna Fail a grim warning about the politics of stamp duty. Among the latter are the alleged "floaters" and the pompous panel on the WIP show last weekend. I say "alleged" because there is no such thing as a pure group of floating voters. Many loyal members of Fianna Fail "floated" when Haughey held power. Every WIP floater has some previous political history. And that history was all over their body language. The WIP floaters were smugly conscious they were on camera and stayed within a consensus. Like laboratory rats, they soon learned to produce predictable tics, grimaces and self-consciously cynical responses when the names of Ahern, Kenny and McDowell came up. Exactly the same consensus responses you get from any group of strangers in a public bar, before they relax and reveal their real politics. The panel of pontificators - Terry Prone, Noel Whelan and Ivan Yates - were equally predictable, although Yates made good points. Naturally, I felt I could have made a more cogent contribution. After all, neither Prone nor Whelan predicted precisely - as I did - how the Ahern affair might pan out, in advance of what actually happened. With the benefit of hindsight, the panel performed a political version of Wordsworth's "emotion recollected in tranquillity". So I was not completely convinced when, a full seven weeks after the Ahern affair, Noel Whelan told us he had not been impressed by the Bryan Dobson interview. Terry Prone, always articulate after the event, seemed to feel the same. So what did I learn from the WIP Luntz show? That politicians reading out lists of achievements are boring? I was telling Fine Gael politicians that back in 1990. That Pat Rabbitte is rated highly? This column has continually argued that if Fine Gael and Labour merged in a social democratic party under Rabbitte they would rip through Fianna Fail. That Michael McDowell, like all politicians, is boring when making a case rather than telling a story? First thing I told Mary Robinson. Been there, done that. * * * BUT what really got my goat was WIP's reverence for Luntz's little gadget which measures emotional response as a politician is speaking. You can make one of these gadgets at home. Fifteen years ago I was giving media groups sheets of A4 paper with the word "winning" on one side and "losing" on the other. As we played a tape of a politician speaking they would turn the sheet back and forth to show their gut feeling. Crude but highly effective. But neither a card nor an electronic gizmo can give you a guide to the future. Like Hollywood focus groups, they can tell you what an audience thinks of your film after you have made it. But they cannot tell you how a hit film works before you make it. When it comes to hits, as William Goldman famously says, nobody knows anything. Which is another way of saying that great film directors and great politicians do their own thing. But, at the same time, politics is also a craft. And Luntz has two good ideas about craft. But I wish RTE radio would stop marvelling as if they had never heard these two ideas before. Because if they were not so blinkered by begrudgery, they could look them up in the RTE library, in two essays I wrote on politics and mass media: Television and Terrorism (1987) and Selling Unionism (1997). Long before Luntz, I was publicly preaching his two basic lessons: that politics is not making a case but telling a story, and that feeling trumps fact. Furthermore, my ideas were not merely theoretical, but were were tested in four successful media campaigns - Proinsias de Rossa's European election campaign, Mary Robinson's presidential campaign, the Teachers United campaign, and David Trimble's reaching out to the Irish Republic. In proof of which let me quote from my essay, Unionism and the Mass Media, in History and the Public Sphere: Essays in Honour of John A Murphy (CUP 2005). For purposes of clarity I have changed the phrase "unionist spokesperson" in the original text to "political spokespersons" here, because the same lessons apply to all politicians. "Political spokespersons are seen to be too wedded to text over tone, to what is said rather than to who says it, to the song not the singer. Their preference for content, not form, means they come across on mass media as more concerned with the calorific value of the political meal, rather than how it is cooked or presented on the plate, or whether it is served with goodwill or not. "Poor political spokespersons also seem more concerned to make a case than tell a story. They are seen to treat the television studio as a court of law, in which the plaintiff with the strongest factual evidence is entitled to win. By contrast, good communicators see the studio as a fireside around which various factions contend for victory by telling a story that is superior to that of other narrators in plot, character and dramatic conflict. "Modern society always favours emotional integrity over exact and emotionally inert factualism. Accordingly, poor communicators' passion for text comes across on television as a finicky preoccupation with footnotes and fine print. This can make poor communicators sound prolix and even petty." Luckily, the unionists have learned a lot since 1997. Paisley now sounds like Trimble. And Trimble, not being a begrudger, admits that I gave him a few tips.  Eoghan Harris 
