politics
{ Eoghan Harris 
    March 26 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/why-attack-a-bulwark-of-democracy-in-this-country-26409878.html }
ONE of my favourite sayings is the famous aphorism of the economist, Arthur Cecil Pigou: "What everybody knows is wrong." Admittedly, the aphorism does not apply to the general public which, given time, usually comes to the correct conclusion. But it always works when applied to the Irish media in mob mode. As it was last week when it set out to lynch Michael McDowell. To recap: Michael McDowell made a ridiculous attack on Richard Bruton and then an apology, which was accepted with good grace. After the apology most ordinary people I met thought better of both men. By contrast, the mainstream'McDowell never attempts manipulation of media. Anyone who catches him on TV sees suits that look like they've been slept in and teeth as God gave them' media (apart from Stephen Collins and Bruce Arnold) agreed that McDowell had made a major political blunder because of his alleged "arrogance". Meantime, the marginal tribal media used the mainstream media as a Trojan Horse to settle scores with McDowell. In this column I want to challenge all these assumptions. I do not believe Michael McDowell did himself any political damage. I do not believe he is arrogant in any important sense of the word. I do not believe the affair has any political significance - apart from revealing the real agenda of many of those who attacked McDowell. Let's me take these three points in turn. * * * FIRST, let's check out the alleged political damage to McDowell's State car after the crash. And guess what? Fianna Fail polls show that McDowell will head the poll in Dublin South East. Which prompts a question. Why do so many of the new breed of political pundits think that political commentary is just a matter of taking a taxi and joining the driver in jeering at McDowell? There are two answers. First, many media colleges are producing radical-chic critics rather than real reporters. Second, many of the new journalists are joiners. Instead of standing outas individuals they cravethe consensus of their colleagues - what I call 'cabin fever'. * * * BEYOND that, many of them lack the elementary emotional intelligence that comes from working in the real world. Combined with 'cabin fever' this is a lethal cocktail which causes them to reach for the adjective "arrogant" whenever McDowell's name is mentioned. And arrogant is the wrong adjective. Michael McDowell has many faults. Some of them I share. He has a short fuse, he likes to show off, he thinks he is the brightest boy in the class. Furthermore, as soon as he comes to a firm conclusion he feels that everybody should feel as strongly as he does about his new faith. But anyone who thinks that this amounts to arrogance needs a life lesson. After 40 years in the company of political activists who were purportedly committed to an idealistic cause, I came to some hard conclusions about political character. And I learned a lot more about arrogance than the political pundits who have only recently darkened the doors of DCU or Dail Eireann. In my extensive experience, there are two types: (a) truly arrogant people who do not appear to be arrogant; (b) people who appear to be arrogant but who are actually quite humble. And the first thing to be said about truly arrogant types is that they are never found standing on the street shouting about their political opponents. Truly arrogant people are almost always strong silent types. They are secretly so satisfied with themselves, so sure of what they want, so confident of conning everybody around them into doing their bidding, that they frequently affect a fake humility to mask their massive ambition. Gerry Adams comes to mind. How the hell can anyone who calls himself a reporter really regard Michael McDowell as an arrogant politician? Because if McDowell was as arrogant as Adams, he would hand down decisions without debate, be prissy about his personal image, and speak to the media only in carefully controlled conditions. McDowell never attempts any Adams-style manipulation of either his personal image or of media conditions. Anyone who watches Adams on television sees Armani suits, expensive molars and carefully coiffed hair. Anyone who catches McDowell on television sees suits that look like they've been slept in, teeth as God gave them, and a shining brow that badly needs a mopping from a make-up person. Likewise, instead of controlling his media appearances, McDowell is incontinent in his willingness to call up a radio show at a moment's notice and render himself open to attack by almost anybody who wants to abuse him. Far from holding himself arrogantly aloof (as Adams does) McDowell has absolutely no side when it comes to making a point. How many Government ministers or senior counsel would climb a ladder like a monkey to make a political point? In sum, behind the bluster, McDowell is a determined democrat, heedless of how he looks, and always available for an argument. In America or Britain he would be put down - in every sense of the phrase - as a popular populist politician who needs to press flesh. So how come the mainstream Irish media - as distinct from the tribal media which has another agenda - keep calling him arrogant ? The answer can be found in one of the less appealing aspects of the Irish national character. By and large Irish politicians do not like to lay things on the line. Against that blurry background a conviction politician like McDowell, who speaks as plainly as possible, can easily sound extreme. In Irish politics, moral clarity is called personal arrogance. * * * FINALLY, as well as failing to come up with an adequate concept of arrogance, the mainstream media allowed itself to be used like a Trojan Horse last week by elements in the tribal media who hate McDowell for the hard line he has taken on the Provos. The worst offender was the Irish Examiner. Naturally it was no surprise to find Daily Ireland and Phoenix peddling the line that because McDowell had no right to call Richard Bruton Dr Goebbels he also had no right to call the Provos fascists. That does not follow. Provo tactics such as demonising Northern Protestants, using the baseball bat as well as the ballot box, and infiltrating state institutions, can be aptly compared with Nazi tactics the Thirties. What was worrying was that last Wednesday both Harry McGee, political editor of the Irish Examiner, and a contributor, Dan Buckley, essentially repeated the same charges against McDowell as Phoenix and Daily Ireland. In particular, both McGee and Buckley complained about McDowell attacking Daily Ireland. Can the Irish Examiner explain two things to me in trade terms? First, why is Harry McGee so protective of Daily Ireland - a trade rival, albeit one which sells only a few thousand copies to fanatics down south? Second, does the Irish Examiner really believe it can build up circulation by parrotingthe politics of republican-socialist rags like Phoenix and Daily Ireland ? The Irish Examiner must know that the market proves that Irish people prefer pluralism. So why does it give such a prominent platform to the parrot politics of people who cannot seem to see that, as far as middle Ireland is concerned, Minister Michael McDowell is one of the main bulwarks of Irish democracy? 
