politics
{ John Drennan 
    March 26 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/and-vegetables-theyll-have-the-same-as-me-26409918.html }
NOW that the hysteria and the sleepless nights over Michael McDowell's grotesque, unbelievable, bizarre and, eh, unprecedented Goebbels moment have finally ebbed away, it's time to reveal the cruellest truth of all. To paraphrase another great old fraud, McDowell's undergraduate junior chamber of commerce style attack on Richard Bruton wasn't a "great" insult. Worse still, it wasn't even very good. The biggest problem with McDowell's attack was the failure to realise that the really memorable political attacks have always mingled the venom with a sliver of truth. Anything else is just rhetoric. In fairness to McDowell, such a lethal combination occurs so rarely, Irish politics has only ever witnessed one perfect example of the art. Back in the 19th Century, as the Kitty O'Shea scandal gathered pace, Parnell was at the point of retaining the leadership of the Irish Parliamentary Party when he made the fatal error of saying that he was still its "master". Seconds later the career of Ireland's greatest constitutional nationalist was in tatters when Tim Healy snarled: "And who will be its mistress?" Parnell was dead within a year while Healy subsequently became the first Governor General of the new Free State. The honour of being the British Crown's last lackey was a dubious one. However, it did reveal another eternal truth about those who master the art of the vicious insult. For some reason, their careers soon falter. One of the classic modern examples of this is Willie O'Dea. Nothing epitomised O'Dea's capacity to wound more completely than his cutting observation that John Bruton must be "the first intellectual in history who has yet to experience an original thought". Six months later John Bruton was no longer the leader of FG. However, in spite of his achievement in replacing Bruton with Michael Noonan, poor Willie had to languish on the disregarded junior ministerial benches for four more years, before his talents were fully recognised. In Irish politics no one likes a smart arse. This, however, has not deterred the desire to wound enemies. Surprisingly, in spite of Sean Lemass's dismissal of Fine Gael as being "the nicest, most harmless, inoffensive body of men he ever had the privilege to meet", the Blueshirts have been the most enthusiastic practitioners of the politics of the poisoned barb. Mr McDowell's attack on Richard Bruton looks relatively harmless when compared to Garret 'the good' FitzGerald's attack on Charles Haughey's "flawed pedigree", and his melodramatic musings about how Haughey's motives could only be "judged by God". However, Garret was also on the receiving end from a most surprising source, when a few whiskeys before an FG ard fheis speech loosened the tongue of the normally dour Liam Cosgrave, to the point where he attacked FG's "mongrel foxes" who might be "gone to ground, but I will dig them out and the pack will chop them when they get them". Even this high standard was surpassed by Dick Spring's attacks on Haughey. The references to political viruses, cancers in the body politic, and the claim that Haughey was "the evil spirit that controls one political party in the Republic, and which has begun to corrupt the entire political process in this country", would not have been out of place in the Treaty debates of 1922. Of course, Mr Haughey was no saint, though he reserved his greatest contempt for his own ministers. His attitude was most memorably captured at one Cabinet dinner when Haughey, having ordered the meat, was asked by the waiter: "What about the vegetables?" and he sighed: "Oh, they'll have the same as me." We can only wonder how Haughey could treat intellectual giants like Gerry 'Don't burst up the party, Albert' Collins with such contempt. Sadly, Bertie Ahern is far too obsessed with his tarnished man-of-the-people image to treat us to any wild flights of rhetoric. However, the mask did once drop after the fall of Albert, when a bewildered Gay Mitchell was told: "You're a waffler. All you've done around here for the last 20 years is waffle." The cruelty of the phrase was somewhat enhanced by its accuracy. Surprisingly, the irrelevant office of the Presidency has conjured up some of the most dramatic political insults. There was Pee Flynn's attack on Blessed Mary Robinson's "new hairdo" and "the new interest in the family", while the claims by our own Eoghan Harris that the present FF Joan of Arc could represent "a tribal time-bomb" was mild mannered when compared to Paddy Donegan's claim that the then President O Dalaigh was "a thundering idiot and a f***ing disgrace". Some of the most colourful exchanges have occurred at that uncertain interface between politics and journalism. Sean Duignan's description of Fergus Finlay as resembling "an Old Testament whirlwind of wrath, biblical beard quivering" and Mary Robinson's "moonlight on a tombstone" visage are as perfect as a sonnet by Shakespeare. Of course, vulgar abuse is always welcome too. The finest example of this occurred during a row between Pat Rabbitte and Damien Kiberd, who noted of Rabbitte's high media profile, that "Today FM is the only studio in the country you haven't your own make-up room in". Rabbitte immediately hit back with a cruel reference to Kiberd's diminutive stature, and his rather large car. As Rabbitte chortled that if Kiberd was ever "seen in my constituency, you'd be mistaken for a joyrider because you couldn't be seen over the bonnet", at least Kiberd could console himself 'The first intellectual in history who has yet to experience an original idea' with the knowledge that he was not the only victim. On another occasion, poor Dick Roche was informed he was "a slithering political lizard", though even this was surpassed by a memorable bilingual barrage of insults which ended with Martin Cullen being informed by Aengus O Snodaigh that he was a "slibhin beag bideach" (translation: "a tiny, little bigot"). When it comes to the art of the political put-down, we'll leave the last word to the great modern master. Others might have been flummoxed by the Taoiseach's claim that he was one of the few socialists left in Irish politics. Joe Higgins noted that up to that moment, he had thought he was as alone as the last of the Blasket Islanders, but Bertie's admission had inspired him to think, "Taoiseach, there are two of us in it now and we will go down together." Sadly since then, Joe subsequently learned that Bertie's conversion was as definitive as one of Ray Burke's lines in the sand. Still at least the insult has survived. In Irish politics it's about the only political trait that lasts. 
