politics
{  
    May 13 2012 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/tomas-kafka-too-much-anger-can-impair-our-political-health-as-we-search-for-the-new-european-design-26852816.html }
The time when it was enviable to be a European politician seems to be gone. Nowadays, the converse is the case -- being a top politician in an EU member state has become very difficult. The recent elections have shown that this tendency towards difficulty has not come to its end quite yet. While it is often highlighted how big the "anger factor" is for voter's motivations, another aspect, however, has been forgotten so far: the angrier the voters are with their politicians, the bigger are the tasks they are entrusting to them. Political constellations after an election are often tougher than the ones before. Emotions accompanying the current political riddles could easily stir up some political memories. In the Seventies, as the feminist movement in West Germany filled the streets, one of the beloved slogans sprayed on walls claimed: "You have no chance -- go for it!" Perhaps voters in some European countries feel that those German feminists from decades ago reflect current feelings. However, there is a huge discrepancy between then and now. The feminists like similar emancipating movements sought to gain acceptance in society by changing the mainstream. Angry Europeans do not have any big issue with emancipation -- they are, perhaps, emancipated more than they may like to think they are. What they are looking for is rather a kind of social protection -- their protest against political authority is at the same time a call for more political authority. No wonder that such a message is confusing for both politicians and citizens. No wonder that the simple reading of the results may lead to the false conclusion that rejection of the status quo is the answer to the current malaise. No wonder that the poorly articulated longing for strong political leadership and accountability is hijacked by extremist parties like the Greek Golden Dawn or the French National Front carrying on just their timeless fight against tolerant centrists. No wonder that under such circumstances the power of the mainstream is Europe-wide sentenced to ail. One of the last bastions of the once so-powerful mainstream is embodied by the German Chancellor Angela Merkel. It could be suggested that her preference for austerity measures as an economic remedy appears too narrow-minded or, apart from in Germany, outdated. But she remains an undeniable authority against which her European peers measure themselves. Unquestionably, her stance occasionally makes her a solitary figure -- it is, however, a very useful stance since it gives others a forum for factual debate. After the French presidential election I asked the seasoned German political journalist Michael Frank what was his assessment about the genuine reaction of German political leaders to this new president. His comment was surprisingly positive. He said that the election of Francois Hollande, who is calm and factual like Angela Merkel, can mark the beginning of an overdue political exchange within the EU which would not tend to be political wrestling, but a search for a new big European design. Angela Merkel, according to Michael Frank, may be misinterpreted as being a stubborn politician with limited political fantasy. However, the truth is that she is a politician who does not like to give in to political pressure and emotional outburst. Her scientific background has perhaps taught her how to be convincing, yet that same background is also responsible for her willingness to be convinced. The fact that the world has been experiencing Angela Merkel rather as more convincing than convinced is (following this logic) owed more to the failure of Angela Merkel's opponents than her own. Michael Frank begged me to understand that his interpretation of Angela Merkel should not be misread as a kind of cheap propaganda. It should rather stress the fact "that we have still a chance". If this perspective sounds too narrow-minded there is of course the option to continue our traditional emancipating fights. This time, for a change, we can try to fight against our anger. Too much anger may impair our political health. Tomas Kafka is the Czech ambassador to Ireland Sunday Independent 
