politics
{ Miriam O'Callaghan 
    December 01 2019 07:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/miriam-ocallaghan-in-shallow-politics-of-optics-a-principled-man-looks-like-a-joke-38742205.html }
A few years ago, I told a former political colleague that I admired Jeremy Corbyn. They laughed. "God, you're gas". The exchange went like this.  Jeremy Corbyn? Sure he's useless. He's a joke.  Really? How is he useless? How is he a joke?  Well, I suppose I don't know anything about Jeremy Corbyn, really. But all the media and the politicians say he's useless anyway. That he's a joke. Well, he is? Isn't he? Is he?   Once, that kind of parroting told us that the fundamentals were strong and property was not over-priced and the landing would be soft and Morgan Kelly was an eejit. Today, political parrots slap themselves on the back, line up to tears and cheers, tell us that we live now in a modern, "compassionate" Ireland.  So modern and "compassionate" that tented-living creeps like knotweed through our towns and cities; that when our homeless children are not being fed on cardboard in the street, they're developing anxiety disorders, delays in speaking, walking, chewing, because the Government crates them like veal calves in hotels.  The sheer vapidity of that political parroting, suggests equal vapidity of ''insight'' into the ''useless'' and ''joke'' conviction politics of Jeremy Corbyn.  The morning Corbyn was elected Labour leader my sister and I toasted him in honour of our late father - proud tradesman, union man, Sick Poor man, who shared his passion for social justice, a good life, a decent wage and living, education and opportunity for all. In reference to Dr Noel Browne, my father used to say the good man will be the hunted man when he threatens the status quo. So, while we toasted Corbyn, we also feared for him. A politician who believes in the good of the many over the few, who would galvanise the ''power of the powerless'', would be hunted from the ''natural'' entitlements, emoluments held by status quo.  We looked at the privileged few controlling British finance, politics and media, seeding their culture of division and fear, of scapegoat and target, of haves and have nots, winners and losers, them and us, a poor both self-made and undeserving, that would go on to encompass letter boxes, bank robbers, bum boys and Piccaninnies, and thought, you know something? They'll flipping do it. They'll take their wealth and power, stop at nothing, stoop to everything, to prevent a man of the many having his head or his way.  We were right to fear. The non-stop stooping came to pass. And when the threatened few flicked through their collection of smears, they found nothing as toxic, vile or delicious as anti-Semitism. A case of the old ''who cares if Jeremy Corbyn is not an anti-Semite? Let's see him deny it.'' Anti-Semitism was the versatile smear that would take them from early-morning radio news, right through afternoon talk-shows to prime-time TV outings at night. Not to mention the jollies in the panting Tory print, be it in the long posh papers or the squat ones they hold their noses over but use all the same. Twitter? Ideal - 280 characters devoid of any of historical context, complexity, continuity about Corbyn.  With exquisite ease they mantled the man most likely to know and say that the Holocaust didn't start with round-ups, ghettoes and transports, but with small mutterings that addressed people no longer as individuals, but as classifications. Not him, or her, or you - only Jew. And so, despite spending his career fighting injustice, racism and sectarianism of every kind, Corbyn would be mired in a confected, calculated and highly calibrated controversy.  Cue the scions of the status quo: ''Now come on, Mr Corbyn. Tell us. When did you stop beating your wife? Will you accept that nobody had to call the police for your not beating your wife? Will you apologise for it? Will you? Will you? You won't." He didn't. And he was right. Why? Because the Andrew Neil interview was spectacle, all about the optics, the thrill, a political hybrid of Reservoir Dogs and Cirque du Soleil.  In fact, Corbyn had apologised to the Jewish community for anti-Semitism in Labour more than a year before; not at the dog-training command of a braggadocio BBC interrogator, but out of the warm relationship he enjoys with many Jewish communities throughout Britain and a lifetime actively supporting them against attack and smear. In fact, when the Tory press launched their "character assassination" of Ralph Miliband, father of David and Ed, it was Jeremy Corbyn who took up his cause.  In fact, when his Centrist Labour ''betters'' were having their colours done by international PR companies, their political loveliness buffed and fluffed to status-quo acceptability by marketeers, Corbyn was out with the jumper, slacks, placard and megaphone. No to war, No to racism, No to fear, No to hate, No to division. Fortune rarely favours the brave, but division always favours the few. For him, this was the real Battle of Britain: Billionaire Boulevard versus Cable Street, where in fact, his own mother  had stood with the many Jews  and communists and socialists against the fascists and Oswald Mosley.   Headlines next day? More gobbledegook of optics.  'Corbyn humiliated, bruised, refuses to apologise for not beat- ing his wife when the police were not called.' My favourite? 'Corbyn's attack on billionaires destroyed by Andrew Neil.'   That the BBC interview was done in the week the broadcaster was apologising for the "mistake" of a TV cut-and-shut, lethal to public trust but flattering to Boris Johnson, matters. It raises questions about a Politics of Optics, from which seriousness and sequence, complexity, continuity and the consequential have been excised. The BBC's "mistake" of taking real time and bending it, being a case in point. The trouble with Jeremy Corbyn then is the trouble with politics generally. Universal truths, timeless values, what we mean when we talk about a good life, a rich life - the essence of his conviction politics - don't lend themselves to our minuscule attention as defined, demanded and devised by media and addressed by Neil Postman.  On social media, it's even worse. Less is not just more, it's everything. And that everything is immediate, discrete. Never mind that Corbyn spent decades fighting racism and sectarianism. It says here he's an Anti-Semite. Reply, like, retweet. Jo Swinson says he is "unfit" to be PM. Until someone breaks the cheap immediacy with the rich continuity: Corbyn was fighting anti-Semitism before she was born. The Politics of Optics is ideal, though, for the convenience politicians. Devoid of conviction, depth, seriousness, values, it has no past, no future, just the urgency and demand of the now. On the turn of a poll, politicians who are ''passionately'' pro-life can become ''passionately'' pro-choice. The optics demanding the Damascene conversion.  In the shallow politics of optics Finance Minister Paschal Donohoe can be seen to challenge Independent TD Noel Grealish on his statement on monies going to Nigeria, while at the same time, giving his full support to Verona Murphy who campaigned on the risk of Isil toddlers and migrants indoctrinating Irish society.  In those same shallow politics of optics, the Taoiseach can be seen to tut-tut about Verona Murphy in Dublin, but go black-ops in Wexford, buddying up with her to win a seat. It was an extraordinary and signal move by the leader of the country in the week the Garda Commissioner was warning of "right-wing extremism lapping at our shores".  In the shallow politics of optics, Micheal Martin can be seen to ''lash'' the Government on the crisis in health and housing in the morning. In the afternoon he can vote with them to keep the housing crisis going.  In the shallow politics of the optics, FG's Emer Higgins can be seen to campaign on housing while the Government party she is running for is responsible for the crisis.  In the shallow politics of optics Maria Bailey was not wrong to exaggerate her injury in a personal injury case. Her ''offence'' was to offend FG chances of a seat.  Judging by the polls, we seem to love the politics of optics. We read it, hear it, buy it, tweet it, like it, lap it, vote for it.  Channel 4 has made a video of Jeremy Corbyn over his political career. Same values, same battles, same convictions, same passion for social justice, democracy, freedom, opportunity, beginning to end. None of it for the optics.  Two thousand five hundred  years ago, the Greek philosopher Xenophanes said that men make their gods in their own image. If we do the same with our politics, what does Ireland look like in 2019? Sunday Independent 
