politics
{ Alan Kelly 
    July 30 2017 05:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/time-for-political-class-to-show-a-bit-of-altruism-on-water-35981129.html }
I am a dad to Aoibhe and Senan, who are seven and five. I love them more than the world. Every day I wake up, I think of their future before I think of my own. Why? Because that's what parents do everywhere across the world every day. When someone enters political life in Ireland, I believe that the majority do so for the right reasons; to help people and to improve the lives of their communities, and this is true across the political spectrum. The vast majority do not enter politics for personal gain. I also believe that politicians, when they begin their individual political journeys, believe in providing for future generations. Political electoral requirements often get in the way, however, and we all lose much of that ethos. The issue of how we as a country are managing our future water and sewerage infrastructure requirements is the greatest modern example of this. My own party, the Labour Party, and other parties don't have a clean pair of hands in this regard. We were part of a Government that abandoned water charges in 1996 for electoral considerations. That was wrong. We also made commitments in relation to opposing water charges before the 2011 election. That was wrong too. Water charges were committed to by Fianna Fail on three occasions before that 2011 election: the River Basin Management Plans; the Programme for Government with the Greens and in the EU/IMF agreement. Try as they might, they can't rewrite history. So the hard decision and commitment to bring in water charges had already been made by Fianna Fail and following the 2011 election, the Labour/Fine Gael government made the decision to proceed with that. That was the right decision. However, the scale of this project, the timeline for doing it and the communication level required was completely underestimated. For example, the quality of the infrastructure that was being handed over to Irish Water by local authorities was not like anything expected and the timeline set out by my predecessor, Phil Hogan, for implementation was, to be kind, unrealistic. When I became Minister for the Environment in 2014, I had to manage this project. I did that over the next two years to the best of my ability. I may have made mistakes - who doesn't - but that's for other people to judge. The facts are that within six to nine months, 65pc of the population had paid water bills - and if you add in those on group schemes or with wells, three in every four people were making a small contribution to help our environment and, by extension, our economy for future generations. Interestingly, by comparison, how many were paying their TV licence nine months or indeed nine years after it was introduced? History will always remember the water protests and rightly so. I often protested myself on many issues close to my heart and I'm sure I'll do so again. Paul Murphy won a by-election and Sinn Fein flipped position, followed by Fianna Fail - incredibly followed later by Fine Gael. Populism had become the dominant position in Irish politics and the race to the bottom of the political pit, to see who could 'outdo' one another, had begun. The Greens are an honourable exception in understanding the need for sustainable financing for water infrastructure and the benefits of metering in ensuring water conservation. In many ways, water charging was a rallying call for a deeper frustration within the Irish population and I can understand that. However, there were also the 65pc who made a contribution and they need to be represented proportionally, too. Domestic water charges were to bring in €271m per annum. That allied with borrowing capacity would create a multi-billion euro fund to deal with our infrastructure requirements. Then, unbelievably, Simon Coveney capsized the whole water funding debate live on Prime Time after the last election and allowed Barry Cowen to drive his tractor through Irish Water leading to the suspension of water charges. We then had an independent expert commission. That was followed by an Oireachtas Water Committee that was charged with finding a way of paying for water without actually charging anyone for it. Their ridiculous findings were described by Simon as "a victory for sensible politics". But it was the complete opposite - and under EU law it will be shown to be illegal when the EU Commission investigates and brings Ireland before the Court of Justice in Luxembourg to face massive fines. Look at what the European Commission's Aurel Dordea said at the Water Committee. This will happen. Now Drogheda has happened and suddenly the issue of funding water and sewerage infrastructure is a hot topic again. Some politicians are blaming Irish Water for not knowing the pipe would burst. More importantly, Sinn Fein is organising a protest. Paul Murphy hasn't found Drogheda yet. Of course, few of my political colleagues are talking about the elephant in the room. How will we find €13bn over the next decade to repair our water and sewerage infrastructure and who will pay for it? They don't want to talk about it because they are afraid to speak the truth for fear of possible electoral damage. The facts are that under the 'proposed' funding mechanism, the taxpayers of Ireland will pay for it. Working people will pay for everyone. The Taoiseach's supposed people "who get up early in the morning". Business people and many in rural Ireland will actually pay twice now. All politics is about choices. So what funding stream is now going to suffer because general taxation is being used? Paschal Donohoe needs to be honest. The economic pie is not infinite. We don't live in a utopian state. So which areas of health, education or social protection are going to lose out? Be honest with the people. Or is somebody going to shout stop, that politics is failing the people, that this is the greatest modern day example of it and we as a country need to wake up? Will it take the Vartry pipe to fail and ensure hundreds of thousands of people in Dublin have no water in order to do that? When will the political class of 2017 stand by the principles of our Republic and show a bit of political altruism again for future generations? Labour Party TD Alan Kelly is vice-chair of the Public Accounts Committee Sunday Independent 
