politics
{ John Drennan and Anne Harris 
    November 01 2014 08:33 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/water/nations-reaction/open-revolt-shock-poll-reveals-coalition-in-meltdown-30710576.html }
The Irish public is in open revolt against its political structures and is calling for radical change.  A new Sunday Independent/Milward Brown nationwide poll reveals the three main political parties combined would struggle to form a coalition and that Sinn Fein has - for the first time since polling began - overtaken Fine Gael to become the largest party in the country. Almost half the electorate wants a new political party. In stark contrast with his party's popularity, public disapproval of Sinn Fein President Gerry Adams has risen sharply. The disconnect between Government and the people is illustrated by Finance Minister Michael Noonan's dismissal of the marchers and the coalition's announced intention to "get tough" on the anti-water charge movement. According to the poll, only two in five people will pay the water charges and over half resent Irish Water's demand to divulge their PPS numbers. The poll was conducted against the backdrop of two major controversies - the water charges and the Mairia Cahill rape and IRA cover-up allegations. Despite two weeks of public controversy over the Mairia Cahill sex-abuse scandal Sinn Fein support has jumped four points to 26pc. This means Sinn Fein - which is poised to win up to 40 seats - could become the dominant party in any post-electoral Coalition. However, voters have reacted to the Mairia Cahill scandal by punishing Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams. His dissatisfaction rating is up 8 points, from 48pc to 56pc. Significantly, one in five Sinn Fein supporters are now dissatisfied with Mr Adams's leadership. The poll interviewed almost a thousand people face to face and was conducted over 10 days up to and including last Friday. Based on these findings, Fine Gael, at 22pc, stands to lose up to 45 seats in the next election, with Labour facing wipe-out as support drops back to 7pc. Writing in today's Sunday Independent, former Tanaiste Michael McDowell said: "The overwhelming public interest would now be served by a bold political initiative by all those who want to be part of a new political order." The poll results come as up to 150,000 people took to the streets yesterday in anger in more than 90 separate anti-water charge protests in towns and cities across the country. In another example of public mistrust of state institutions, over half those polled (51pc) said they were "very uncomfortable" with giving their PPS number, while just 29pc said they were comfortable with handing over the information. Despite the improving economy, the Government's handling of the water charges fiasco has left the Fine Gael/Labour coalition facing a backlash similar to that experienced by Fianna Fail and the Greens in 2011. Less than one third of voters (29pc) said they had any level of trust in the current party political system. And less than one in 10 (8pc) feel that the much-vaunted "end-of-austerity Budget" has left them better off. "Governance is in crisis and the main political parties seem unable to address it," one political observer told the Sunday Independent. One Labour TD ruefully admitted: "We are in crisis - there has been no Budget bounce and no Burton bounce." The poll results highlight the widespread disillusionment reflected in yesterday's unprecedented country-wide 93 protests against the water charges. As half the voters say the embattled Coalition will run its full term to 2016, the margin of Sinn Fein's lead over Fine Gael will come as a significant blow to Enda Kenny, whose already shaky leadership is coming under increasing pressure. The Taoiseach's personal popularity rating has plummeted by six points to 25pc; meaning Mr Kenny is nudging up against the record lows of Brian Cowen and Eamon Gilmore. By contrast, Leo Varadkar - who was openly criticised by Enda Kenny during the summer - has emerged as the clear favourite to succeed Mr Kenny as leader of Fine Gael, he has 28pc support - more than double the support of his nearest rival Simon Coveney, with Michael Noonan trailing in third. Infighting is likely to accelerate within Fianna Fail in the wake of today's Millward Brown poll. In yet another example of the alienation of the electorate from the political establishment support for Micheal Martin, in common with all party leaders, is down. The main opposition party, which is down one point to 20pc, has utterly failed to capitalise on public fury over cronyism and water-charges. Voters are clearly keen to fill the political vacuum as support for a new party soars. Almost half of voters (up 12pc to 47pc) want a new party to be formed soon. Today's poll, though, shows a new political party could compete with Sinn Fein to secure the support of an alienated electorate. Support for a new political party has soared as voters look for an alternative to the old order. Mr McDowell said the poll findings illustrated a high tide of support for a new party. "The opportunity exists to create in the last year of the life of this Dail a coherent competent and responsible political force," he said. The former PD leader noted that the €25m in public money parties such as Fine Gael will secure during the lifetime of this Dail was indicative of how the dice are still loaded against the formation of a new party. But, he said, this should not deter the putative membership of any new party from having the courage "and the generosity of spirit to put such a new movement before their own immediate interests and ambitions".   Sunday Independent 
