politics
{ Jody Corcoran 
    March 31 2007 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-white-haired-lowry-is-a-changed-man-but-certainly-not-a-broken-man-26286424.html }
IAM on the telephone early to Michael Lowry. "Do you want to do that interview?" Now that all his turmoil is behind him, or almost - he awaits Mr Justice Moriarty's verdict - the former minister agrees, and adds: "There are a few things I want to get off my chest." He says the interview will be exclusive - "I'm not talking to anyone else" - and that he will answer any question I ask. It's 8am and I haven't had my first cigarette of the day. "Did you dye your hair before it turned grey?" I ask. "I'll tell you later," he says, chuckling. Although, later, I discover it is a touchy subject. Four hours on, in the Berkeley Court Hotel, Albert Reynolds is in a corner, his voice instantly recognisable, charming a group of Middle Eastern businessmen. "No problem, I can do that," I hear Albert saying, doing another deal, selling oil to oilmen, probably, or snow to Eskimos. When I tell Lowry that Albert is in the bar, that it might be a little awkward, Lowry says he could not care less. He has discovered a lot about himself these last few years, and about others, too. Albert was never the worst of them, he says. That morning's newspapers had portrayed Lowry as almost a broken man: thin, grey, a shadow of his former self, when he was Minister for Transport, Energy and Communications in 1994, tilting at windmills, real and imaginary. He looks thinner, but then he always had that gaunt appearance, like a greyhound. But his suit fits well and his shoes are shiny. The hair is greyer, certainly, but he is 53 now. He had just turned 40 when his world began to fall apart. Soon I discover that while Michael has a changed in many ways, physically and mentally, he has lost little of his chutzpah. Rather than the broken man he is said to be, he is, in fact, buoyed, not only because his days in a tribunal are behind him, but because he performed well, certainly in the final two days, when he turned the tables on his adversary - the lawyer, Jerry Healy. It had to do with something called the 'Glebe Trust', a British Virgin Islands trusts, more of which elsewhere. We shake hands and he sits in a comfortable armchair. I produce a tape recorder. Immediately, he is awkward. He asks that I take notes instead, and says he will talk slowly. I order tea and scones. He has his tea black, without sugar. He picks at a fruit scone, no cream or jam. I place the morning papers on the table. He turns to a page reporting his final day in the box and reads it for the first time, not seeming particularly interested. Inevitably, the conversation turns towards the Glebe Trust, evidence in relation to which, it had emerged the previous day, showed he had no connection to Denis O'Brien's purchase of the former Doncaster Rovers football ground. My eyes glaze over. "Michael," I say, "I don't want to go over all of that stuff. I'm not interested, you're not really interested, and our readers are certainly not interested. I want to know how you are." Michael Lowry resigned as Minister in November, 1996 when it emerged that his house extension in Tipperary was paid for by Ben Dunne, in a roundabout kind of way, for services rendered by Lowry's refrigeration business. "It was a bleak Christmas that year, I can tell you. The darkest moment of my life." Surely not the darkest, I say. Surely there were darker in the last 10 years or so. "It was a hugely traumatic experience. My business transactions overlapped into politics. For me, I didn't realise in my wildest imaginations what was ahead of me for the next 10 years. Normally, in politics, when you get into trouble, it subsides quickly enough and you get on with your life. With me, that didn't happen. It became intolerably repressive." That's the kind of stuff I want to know about, I tell him. What do you mean when you say "intolerably repressive"? "My life in the past 10 years has been in turmoil," he says. "But for the support of family and friends, I wouldn't have been able to cope. I am thankful, too, that I discovered I have the mental strength, the inner courage to confront the many problems that I had. "During that time I have seen the best and worst sides of human nature. Plenty of people have surprised me with their support. I got generosity that I didn't expect from some people . . . then, others, they surprised me with how they . . . " he trails off. How did they surprise you? "I was particularly impressed with the non-judgmental attitude of what I call ordinary people. I was only judged by the hob-nobs. Let's just say, I felt the chill wind when some previous friends decided to pull down the shutters. People were fearful, shall we say, of cross-contamination. "Don't get me wrong. I have a lot of wonderful friends, but some people were conspicuous by their absence in time of need." I ask, obviously, who these people were, these former friends. But he doesn't want to name names. "The hob-nobs you mentioned," I say, "Who are they?" "Ah, leave out that word," he says. "Hob-nobs, I don't know if I should say that . . . " I remind him that he had said he would answer any question, and that the interview was entirely on the record. He explains: "You just get dropped off the invitation lists, the social functions . . . that's it." "After 10 years, I've got to know my real friends. In all the swell of rumour, innuendo and gossip, the people of Tipperary - my own people - were absolutely magnificent to me." What about Ben Dunne? "I have no difficulty with Ben Dunne. I never had any difficulty with Ben Dunne. If I met him I would have no difficulty in exchanging pleasantries with him. I was caught up in . . . I don't hold him to blame . . . but I was caught up in exceptional circumstances at an extraordinary period in Ben Dunne's personal life. I and many others suffered serious fallout from that unfortunate episode. But I've paid my tax now, I am making good on it. I'm moving on from all of that." Generally, then, I ask, what has it been like? He had likened the tribunal to a cancer. "If you had been mauled . . . over the past 10 years every aspect of my life has been trawled over. Not just mine, but family as well. My mother, an old-age pensioner, she is 84 now, she had her financial affairs gone through, my five brothers, my sister, all of them, the same. "That intrusion in itself, and others that were close to me at that time, they had their financial affairs examined. That takes its toll. You're visiting your trouble upon others." Others that were close to you, I say. Are you talking about Geraldine Mahon here? Geraldine Mahon, a glamorous and wealthy socialite, had been romantically linked to Lowry for several years while he was enjoying the spoils of ministerial office. Michael winces here. "That's over," he says. "To be honest, I don't really want to go into that." But I do, I say. Remember, no question left unanswered. "No, I can't . . . I can't go into all of that again. She went through a terrible time of it," he says, as I remind him of the tabloid photographs of them holidaying together in the south of Spain. I pause to pour more tea. What are you telling me, I ask. "It started off where this frenzy created the impression that I had a pot of gold hidden some place. After 10 years of worldwide waivers from me to the tribunal, so they could search every bank in the world, it turns out there was no pot of gold at the end of the rainbow." Several years ago, on a Saturday morning, I remember driving to Michael Lowry's home at Holycross in Tipperary, when he was hot news. His daughter answered the door, and went to fetch her father. As I waited, I was struck by the incongruous sight of a grand piano in the round hall. For some reason, it seemed to me that it had never been played. Michael came down the spiral stairway, dressed in a white bathrobe. He was gracious, despite being called upon at an early hour. I'm not sure what happened to the story I was working on, but I do remember being impressed by his daughter's courteousness when she opened the door to another journalist working on turning her father's life inside out. "I have two boys and a girl. They are grown up now, but 10 years ago they weren't. I'm pleased my kids have been able to come through this, mature and well-adjusted, and have been able to deal with it. It hasn't been easy for them. "I cringed for them in the knowledge that they had to be embarrassed by a lot of the stuff that was said and written about me. I talked to them about it, assured them that I had done nothing improper. They are relaxed enough about it now, and understand and are supportive. Remember, McCracken cleared me of any 'political impropriety'. That was important for me and them. He criticised me concerning business transactions and the tax implications, but for me and my children, that I was cleared of political impropriety was good. "The last 10 years have been stressful and turbulent. I suppose almost anything that could have happened to me did happen, in a negative sense." Here, he is not talking about his business and political life, but about his personal life again. That weekend in Tipperary, I attended a Michael Lowry political event in a local hotel. The level of local support was impressive. I remember one young man in a queue coming forward to shake his hand. "My father said to tell you there are seven votes for you in our house." Lowry was grateful, and said to thank the young man's father, whose name he mentioned. That evening, by his side, was Catherine McGrath, Michael's wife of many years. Even then, I knew, that their marriage was in trouble. But she had turned out to be by her husband's side when he needed her, to help him be re-elected as a poll topper. The marriage has now ended. He, and Catherine, had to contend with the break-up at the height of Michael's turmoil, which is noeasy task. "The most overbearing thing was trying to cope with a multitude of issues at the one time. I had an ongoing investigation by the Revenue, Mary Harney had an authorised officer in my company, there were daily inquiries from the tribunal, all against a background of daily negativity in the media. "I was finding it difficult to maintain my business contacts, while at the same time trying to maintain a political base in Tipperary, at the same time as everything else. "I recall one of my concerns at the time was whether I could retain my financial independence. I was worried I was going to lose the business. I thought the tribunal, the Revenue, defending myself against consistent and sustained attack, was going to make me go under. "One thing I learned: in the morning, when you get up and can't pay the bills, nobody is going to pay them for you. When it comes down to it, you are on your own." I ask if he had ever thought of packing his bags and running away. "At an early stage I received advice that I would be better off in a corner of South Africa somewhere. It crossed my mind to do it, but I never gave it serious consideration." Did you ever think of suicide? "Fortunately, I was never that low. After all that has happened, after everything I have been through, I am certainly a stronger person. I know my personal weaknesses. But I am really grateful that I don't have any bitterness or resentment towards my detractors. I am not embittered as a result. "But eventually it destroys you inwardly. Here is one of the things I want to get off my chest: I was disappointed that a system in any democracy would download to such an extent on any individual or citizen. I have felt a sense of State oppression against me. I got a sense of the power of the State's institutions, how domineering and controlling they are when they turn their sights on you. I had the Revenue after me, the authorised officer was up my arse, and McCracken and Moriarty were there as well." Surely, I say, that was your darkest hour, not Christmas 1996. "I had many long days, many dark nights," he said. "There were nights, many nights when I couldn't sleep, and times when I had to force myself to get up to take the consequences of another day." That sounds like depression to me, Michael, I say. "Yeah, well . . . ," he says, nodding his head. "One thing I have learned," he says, by way of shutting down the subject, "One thing I have learned, on a simple level, is the value of a good night's sleep. Without sleep, I couldn't function, I couldn't focus. And there were many nights without sleep." Looking back now, I ask, what would you have done differently? "I had helped to put the Rainbow Government together, and was seen as a performing minister, capable, with a bright future. I became a victim of my own success. "I mean that in the sense that I wasn't politically mature, I didn't have the maturity, politically, to see the pitfalls, the consequences of my political elevation. "You remember that time," he says, "The Tuffy letters, the golden circle. They did target me. I stuck my head too high over the parapet and there were politically motivated people queueing up to take my head from my shoulders. The thing was, I made it easy for them. The thing with Ben Dunne. It was a business arrangement for services provided. But Ben being Ben, he did it his way. "The other thing, of course," he says, "is that I resigned 10 days before I was entitled to a ministerial pension. I could do with that pension now." And what about the Government merc, I ask, and the Champagne receptions at Punchestown? "I was never into that. I enjoy a good social life, don't get me wrong. I love going racing and to hurling matches. Another thing, now, is that when I go through the turnstiles, nobody ever troubles me or bothers me." "The Government Merc was a great experience. I can understand why so many of the present Government would do anything to cling to power and its status. But I don't miss it. I'm happy living day to day. I'm happy, I'm grateful that I have the mental strength to cope, personally, and to survive, in politics and business. I have never been, or I hope I haven't, I have never been undignified." So what was it all about, Michael, I ask. "That is the question. What was it all about? Why did the State invest mega-millions without any return? I was a football in the middle of a political game. "In the case of the tribunal, they couldn't get me on the telephone licence thing. They flogged it for 10 years, they have done everything to me. They allowed accusations, unfounded, to fester and damage me, and at the end of it, there was not a shred of evidence to say I did anything improper with the licence or that I received one penny farthing from anybody in return for political intervention." Judge Moriarty, of course, will eventually decide on that. I ask Lowry if he now regretted having a pint with Denis O'Brien in Hartigan's pub on Leeson Street on that fateful evening after a day in Croke Park. "It was a bottle of Heineken," he says. "The tribunal and the media focused on a bottle of Heineken with Denis O'Brien, but completely ignored that I met every one of the competitors, all the consortia, including Persona in a bar in the Killiney Hotel. "If that standard is to be applied, the Fianna Fail tent in the Galway Races should be quarantined for six months before and after." So what about O'Brien, I ask. How do you feel about him now? "At the time, my concern was - and this is the truth - my concern was that if he got it, not that he got it unfairly, because he did get it fairly. My concern was had he the capability to make a success of it. Had he failed, then I would have been accused of making a bad decision. As it transpired, he confounded all the critics and rolled out the network exceeding all expectations. "At the time Denis O'Brien arrived on the scene, there was a need for his vision, his conviction, his brashness to shake up the monopoly over which I was presiding as Minister. He was the first version of the Michael O'Leary brand. It is no coincidence that both have been so hugely successful. "I always enjoyed a good relationship with Denis O'Brien. I respect him and admire his business acumen." Lowry believes he will end his political career as an Independent, although his heart with be in the CityWest Hotel this weekend, at the Fine Gael Ard Fheis. "There is a mood for change out there. The Opposition's task is to convince the public that they can be relied upon to deliver a workable alternative. Enda Kenny has done a marvellous job. The mantle of Taoiseach will rest easy on him." "These days, though, I go into the Dail and do my business for my constituents," he says. He is aware, though, of the whiff of controversy which still lingers. "When I walk the corridors, or in the restaurant, I am careful not to put anybody in an embarrassing position," he says. And so, I say, as we come to the end, did you used to dye your hair? "Worry certainly greys you," he says. Come on, Michael. Is there a new woman in your life? Does she like your grey hair? "I've heard a lot of stories over the years about my hair, none of which bears any truth to the reality." Not good enough, I say: did you dye it or not? "There is no individual without a blemish," he answers. 
