politics
{  
    August 18 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/time-to-end-sinn-feins-free-run-in-politics-26250280.html }
The willingness to tiptoe around Sinn Féin in order to  preserve the peace process has made a mockery of  democracy, says Frank Callanan. WHETHER or not the peace process survives its current difficulties, it is no longer possible to ignore the adverse consequences for political life in Ireland arising from the Irish government's chosen mode of engagement with the peace process. The government's approach has been predicated on the belief that the furtherance of the peace process necessarily required a cessation, or an indefinite suspension, of any challenge to the democratic credentials of Sinn Féin. At the very outset of the peace process there might perhaps have been a temporary justification for this, as Albert Reynolds sought to put the pieces in place. However, this was calamitously permitted to define, and to set in stone, the relationship of the Irish government to Sinn Féin within and without the peace process thereafter. It was treated as axiomatic that the government would assume some kind of hegemonic pan-nationalist role, and that it would sponsor and protect Sinn Fein's induction into democratic politics, on the pretext of achieving democratic inclusiveness in the pursuit of peace. This of course reflected a grotesque underestimation and misunderstanding of Sinn Fein. It was also a major abdication of the position and role of the Irish State, and a major deviation from the course of Irish politics since 1970. The most alarming consequence of the protective deference accorded to Sinn Fein was a moratorium in southern politics on serious criticism of Sinn Fein's claim to be a constitutional party. Since 1970, politicians of all parties had articulated a strenuous moral and political repudiation of the IRA and of Sinn Féin and of their repulsive pretensions to act and speak on behalf of the population of the Republic. This position was common to all the significant parties in the State and was fundamental to the defence of the institutions of the Irish State and its democracy throughout the Troubles. The potentially catastrophic consequences of the effective abandonment of the democratic challenge to Sinn Féin have begun to become apparent. It is now clear that large numbers of younger voters are perfectly prepared to regard Sinn Féin as if it were an entirely normal and legitimate political party with no questions to answer. On the other hand, Sinn Féin is invested with a special glamour that could never attach to ordinary democratic politicians whose commitment to democratic values have never been in issue. A highly-resourced, aggressive and ruthless organisation, Sinn Féin has not been subjected to the mildest democratic scrutiny. Its advance has been significantly assisted by the practice of self-censorship, largely in well-intentioned furtherance of the peace process, by democratic politicians and by media, with some honourable exceptions. Certain obvious questions suggest themselves. Does Sinn Féin still stand over a campaign of sectarian assassination of Irish Protestant men and women, and the killing of members of the British army and the RUC, not to mention the Garda Siochána? What was the role of the leaders of Sinn Féin in relation to those murders? Where are the bodies of those killed by the IRA in enforcing its writ? What about the continuing punishment beatings? How has Sinn Féin been financed in the past and at present? How has Sinn Féin permitted its henchmen to act as enforcers against those it judges to be involved in drug-dealing? What about intimidation and personation? IT is of course a bitter irony that the emphasis on decommissioning within the peace process has, in southern politics, to some extent played into the hands of Sinn Féin. It has acted as a perfect decoy, as if it were the only issue concerning its bona fides as a democratic party which Sinn Féin was required to address. It is considered somehow mischevious to raise these obvious questions: unhelpful to the peace process. Never was a sense of diplomatic politesse more misplaced, or contemptible. If Sinn Féin is putting its candidates forward at a general election then it must be subject to ordinary democratic scrutiny, peace process or no peace process. One may ask when it is proposed to engage in a sustained debate on the democratic legitimacy of Sinn Féin. Can it seriously be suggested that this is something that can be left to a general election campaign? As matters stand all we have had from the government at least is the Taoiseach's episodic attacks on Sinn Féin's sanctimonious self-promotion in the course of the referendum on the Nice treaty. While better than nothing, it is not remotely equal to the threat. It also suggests an ominous belief on the part of the Taoiseach's advisers that attacks on the democratic credentials of Sinn Féin can only be launched under the cover of a special context, such as that afforded by the Nice referendum. A direct consequence of the indulgence afforded to Sinn Féin was the overtaking of the SDLP by Sinn Féin at the Westminster elections. While Sinn Féin is for a variety of reasons a notoriously formidable force, I don't believe that this could have happened without Sinn Féin being able to assert that the Dublin government was at least neutral as between Sinn Féin and the SDLP. I don't think this was in fact the governments position, but Sinn Féin was once again permitted to surf triumphantly and unchecked on the wave of the peace process. There is something ugly and something corrupt in what has become by default the slide towards the appeasement of Sinn Féin in southern politics. We all know this in our hearts but are loath to confront it. One episode exemplifies the pernicious role of Sinn Féin, and the quiescence of the southern political establishment and media in response to it. As leader of Fine Gael, John Bruton supported and when Taoiseach advanced the peace process. He was not however, a pan-nationalist, and believed that the southern state should assume a more even-handed position as between the two communities in Northern Ireland. For Sinn Féin and the IRA this was not good enough. They sought to impose a form of veto on Bruton's return to office. In an artful reprise of an earlier attempt to impose a veto on Bruton becoming Taoiseach, which was formally expressed, and which backfired, they achieved this by discreetly disseminating the threat that Sinn Féin would stall the process or that the IRA would abort the peace as a likely consequence of Bruton's election as Taoiseach. IT is no answer to say that John Bruton's prospects of emerging as Taoiseach after the general election appeared in any case limited, that Sinn Féin and the IRA would not necessarily or could not have, made good their veto; or indeed that Bruton in the event lost the Fine Gael leadership for unrelated reasons. The attempted veto was there, an indication of just how ruthlessly qualified and cynically self-serving Sinn Féin's commitment to parliamentary democracy was. No one took serious exception. No one defended the importance of the principle of John Bruton being able to engage in ordinary democratic politics as leder of the opposition without being subjected to extra-parliamentary menaces from Sinn Féin and the IRA. Sinn Féin's veto was treated as if it were somehow a normal incident of democratic politics, and entered into the calculus against Bruton for so long as he was leader of Fine Gael. Retrospectively, what seems extraordinary is an alacrity, the lack of reflection, and the absence of reservations, with which the lessons of the experience of the Irish State since 1970, drawing on political traditions which went back to the foundation of the State, were unravelled in favour of an accommodation with Sinn Féin. The government is as a result deprived for the present of its flexibility of action within the peace process. Its inability to engage in a contest of wills inwith Sinn Féin, in relation to the peace process, on its own terrain has been quite significantly eroded. If we do not face down the threat we will be drawn ever deeper into moral compromise and evasion. There is still time to bring to an end Sinn Féin's free run in Irish politics. * Frank Callanan is a senior counsel and author of The Parnell Split and T M Healy 
