politics
{ EDITORIAL 
    June 10 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-electorate-is-jaded-with-too-much-scandal-26255006.html }
Entranced by the tribunal soap opera we're ignoring the political crises of today, says  @@STYL cf,hlnb John Drennan. IN Britain, last week's major political crisis occurred when Tony Blair suffered a slow hand-clap at a Women's Institute meeting. Happy days. Over here it's all starting to resemble Brett Easton Ellis's American Psycho. Axe murderer or respectable Yuppie? Nobody knows until the blade comes down. In fairness, when it comes to explaining the present psychosis, the dice is loaded against our lads. If it's not Justice Moriarty, then somebody is singing like a canary in front of Justice Flood. Like a penitent sinner facing death, Mr Ahern's Government has spend the last six months confronting the accumulated sins of two decades. Are we surprised, therefore, that another normal week in Irish politics started with the Government poised to fall as we waited for the report of the FF Ethics Committee? A grim Brian Cowen was dispatched to RTE to play the samurai warrior with his party's reputation. There were hopeful nudges and murmurs about the PDs suffering an attack of ethical politics. But by Wednesday evening the crisis had gone. Mr Cowen was off to ask the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiria would they buy a few oul' cattle, Liam Lawlor was commended for the nobility of the way he fell on his sword and the PDs observed that the wisdom of any Independent in supporting the finest-ever Government outweighed any youthful indiscretions. As is the way these days, this picture was shattered within hours. Compliments about Liam Lawlor were noticeably thinner among the FF ranks as Lawlor claimed that one of the Taoiseach's closest political allies, Des Richardson (the party's main honeypot for those sweet, sweet corporate donations), had offered Lawlor £100,000 to act as a consultant in the Phoenix Park consortium. Before the Opposition could even begin the usual hue and cry about Mr Ahern's central position within a web of corruption, Mr Richardson raced out with a press release claiming he had approached Lawlor as a favour to some friends but had never offered him any money. A rare bird indeed. The Opposition retreated into their fox-holes. As Mary Harney has discovered, it's dangerous staying out too long on that high moral ground. At least it was a quiet week in the tribunals. Mr Haughey's relationship with Brian Lenihan's liver money is old news. These days it takes a donation of £8,500,000 to get the forces of moral indignation out of bed. Happily, those fans of the sex-and-shopping school of political scandal were in for a treat. The O'Flaherty affair (remember that?) reared out of the grave a second time as Limerick lecturer Denis Riordan's appeal against the appointment of Hugh O'Flaherty to the European Investment Bank rewarded us with a dissertation about the ``special relationship'' between O'Flaherty's wife and Ahern's mistress and between Sheedy and the builder, and Ahern and Ahern's mistress, etc, etc. Amidst all this, the receipt by GV Wright of the occasional 10 grand from likely lads Owen O'Callaghan and Frank Dunlop was almost unnoticed. Even the Opposition wasn't that fussed. After all, wasn't GV a grand chap (no pun intended) and sure wouldn't anyone get confused over whether it was a solicited or unsolicited donation? The result is a deeply confused political landscape. Previous crises were generally monochrome affairs. Haughey or FitzGerald. Harry Whelehan or Opposition. Guns or government. The present mosaic is too rich. But one thing is clear. The events of the past few months have devalued the term ``crisis''. Like a shell-shocked soldier, we're desensitised. Analysis and logic iare lost beneath the weight of facts and counter-theories as the scandals chase after each other like sheep leaping over a fence. No-one knows if accepting one, 10 or 30 grand is a resigning matter. No-one in Dáil Eireann is sure if there's a crisis out there. The Government could collapse in six weeks or two years. No-one is sure if the Government has been destabilised, though the smart answer is No. The dagger would have to reach into the very heart of the administration and take out Mr Ahern. One of his colleagues isn't enough any more. Ironically, not everyone is unhappy about the present scenario. A TD who wasn't preparing for an early election remarked, ``Fianna Fáil are delighted with the tribunals. We set them up to divert you from the strokes we're pulling now.'' It was meant as a joke, but was not as off-beat as it might seem. Now that even George Redmond is waxing lyrical about the Flood tribunal's powers, it is not politically correct to suggest that our tribunals are imperfect. But you should always be wary when your enemies praise you. The weekly soap opera of what Mr Haughey/Redmond got next is a fine successor to Scrap Saturday. However, the continuing plight of the Bailey Hillbillies is indicative of the dangers of placing too much faith in our tribunals. Last week's farcical episode, where we relived the great fire of Finglas which destroyed the company records (all that was missing in the tale of poor Tom beside the burnt-out trailer was a few bars of There's a Hole in My Bucket, Dear Liza) indicates we are fooling ourselves if we think the Baileys are senior players in the corruption stakes. These fellows were too stupid to even have an Ansbacher account. But our fascination with figures like Haughey, Redmond and that unfortunate jumped-up county councillor who will be forgotten before his epitaph is written (Michael Lowry) is allowing the Government a free run as the serious scandals of today are virtually ignored. Five months after the PAC Report was accepted, commended and binned in the same day, tax inspectors are claiming that the policy within the Revenue is to hound medium and small-scale businesses and use the lightest of fingers when dealing with corporations. This obsession with the past has served the interests of the Government in other ways. Mr Haughey's romps have diverted attention from Bertie Ahern's callous indifference to the drugs crisis. Meanwhile, we wait and wait for a report on the Abbeylara killing, the Minister for Education culls the legal rights of the children his schools brutalised, the Minister for Health displays indifference towards the pain of the old, the sick and the handicapped, and the Minister for Social Welfare casually presides over streets clotted with the silent forms of the homeless. In a politics dominated by the eternal soap opera of what Bertie knew, the focus on the bread and circuses of our tribunals has facilitated the rise of a new theocracy of grubby little Ansbachermen with their allies amongst the politicians, banks, auditors and Law Library. As the bloated ticks sup contentedly at an unsupervised trough with nothing to disturb their perfect world except for the occasional need to squeal about the damage the greed of our nurses, bus drivers, teachers and junior hospital doctors will do to the economy, do we really think our tribunals will rectify this? Ansbacherman must be laughing all the way to his new bank in Togo-land. The biggest challenge in politics will be to redefine what constitutes a scandal. Now that normality in Irish politics consists of a permanent flux of scandals, the new difficulty facing politicians and the media will be to pick and choose between them. Otherwise, just as concepts like openness and accountability have lost their meaning in the political lexicon, the idea of a crisis may also lose its teeth. If everything from a £500 donation is a scandal, then nothing, to the point of another Hepatitis C controversy, is a scandal. As for last week: a hurricane or a storm in a tea-cup? A crisis in the State or another normal week in politics? For the moment our money's on the latter. But we may have to wait until the Tipperary South by-election to find out. The unsettled state of the body politic is epitomised by the dangers this poses for John Bruton, Ruairí Quinn and Bertie Ahern. The problems being faced by the first two are widely known. However, if Mr Seamus Healy wins or the poll drops below 35 per cent, it is the Teflon man of Irish politics who may be in trouble. After all, the drip, drip, drip method of Chinese water torture always works eventually. 
