politics
{ BRUCE ARNOLD 
    October 29 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/why-leadership-is-the-real-issue-in-tweedledum-and-tweedledee-politics-26136896.html }
ON THE rather narrow basis of the Labour win in Dublin South central, Ruairi Quinn is to be congratulated. His excellent candidate, Mary Upton, deserved to take her brother's seat, and the resolution of difficulties in the constituency between Labour and the former Democratic Left candidate, Eric Byrne, will have significance in the general election. Whether it will lead to two seats is still widely open to question. But nothing hard and fast can be drawn from the statistics in the face of the historically low poll. Quite properly, this is seen as a problem for the future, variously ascribed to apathy, disinterest, comfort, well-being, and disillusionment with politics. Most public comment deplores this, going so far, in the case of John Gormley of the Green Party, as seeing in it a `crisis'. Yet there is another way of looking at it entirely. During the latter stages of the by-election campaign Jack Lynch died. In the course of many tributes paid to him there was considerable emphasis on the threat to democracy which he was seen as confronting and defeating in 1969 and 1970, over the Arms Crisis and the challenge to his leadership from Charles Haughey which followed the verdict in the second of the two Arms Trials. There was a genuine crisis then, and there has been an understandable focus on it, with much conflict over cause and effect. The essential argument was about whether or not republicanism achieves its aims by peaceful means, or by violence. It divided Fianna Fail at the time, and to a lesser extent the other political parties. And it represented a genuine difference which was worth votes, and which defined who held power. Not surprisingly, there was at the time intense interest in politics, and a genuine sense of crisis circumvented. The central issue is of course with us still, though with much less of the divide, and none of the covert action which led to Haughey's dismissal and his later appearance in court. Those events would be unthinkable now; consensus is widely in favour of peaceful means. And if all subscribe, it may even lead to the Good Friday Agreement coming into force. In this, as in so many other areas of former public strife, consensus has in fact become a political force itself, capable of neutralising conflict and taking issues out of the old-fashioned political arena in which party candidates opposed each other in elections, and went on to oppose each other in the Houses of the Oireachtas. Broadly speaking, there is agreement on much of what we wish to achieve, as a society. How we do it, what pace we set, how we share out benefit, how we care for the poor and the marginalised, attracts attention and debate. But that we have to do a given number of things is not really open to any fundamental argument or challenge. Furthermore, our achievement of these aims is affected much more centrally by law and by our rights, and much less by favouritism and political leverage, or by the corruption which was an inherent part of that system. Like the Church, politics held sway in a society which was ignorant of what its rights were, and timid about demanding them. It once seemed easier to seek a favour than to demand a right. Mercifully, that has changed in a fundamental and welcome way. It is therefore not surprising that one of the biggest political challenges currently facing Bertie Ahern revolves around historical facts concerning his role when Haughey was leader of Fianna Fail, rather than in any immediate and current controversy. And the major stories running in the newspapers and on radio and television, electrifying though they are, deal with events ten or more years ago. In the face of Flood and Moriarty, in the face of the £200 in cash paid by Charles Haughey to Anne Lenihan for her brother's medical expenses in America, there is no possible contest from today's politicians for our interest or excitement. They all broadly agree with each other. They are all moving in roughly the same direction. They are all demonstrating great caution lest they should stray from the broad parcel of objectives to which we all subscribe. And there is nothing objectionable in that, nothing to be deplored. A European sameness of life prevails. The unique character of Irish political life, once so obsessively followed by so many people with nothing better to do, is being transformed. And not surprisingly, it persuades fewer people going to vote. There is certainly no crisis in this. We are moving along in a slack period, from the point of view of political controversy, feeding voraciously on the iniquities which are being dredged up out of the past, and being wise and judgmental about others, when in fact we should be blaming ourselves for letting it all happen when it did. The difficulties are evident in the performance of the opposition parties, and of the two leaders, Ruairi Quinn and John Bruton. Instinctively, one has sought more from them. Their public stance, their policies, their actual performance, seem passive and quiescent. If we are rational about this then the obvious fact emerges: they would do the same, broadly speaking, on virtually all the public issues of moment at this time. Even on Northern Ireland the perception a year ago, that only Bertie Ahern and Fianna Fail in power would work, is seen today in a different light. If anything works it will be consensus, and credit will be broadly shared by those in power and those in opposition. Small turnout or not, the stability of the share of votes going to each party gives satisfaction to each. The comfort factor, which might have given Fianna Fail a greater vote in view of unprecedent national wealth, is offset by the sleaze factor. The party behaved oddly in the past, Bertie Ahern more oddly than the rest, and it has not abjured this. While the rest of the country continue to be fascinated by the revelations, Fianna Fail are shamed by them, and have still not worked out a collective response, settling the past, and redefining the present and future. This process does not invite opposition involvement. Neither John Bruton nor Ruairi Quinn can do themselves any good by adding their interrogations to those of the estimable lawyers tracking through the documents on the personal and political financial histories of those who once governed us - some who still do - and which we now find so engaging. It is remarkable that these continue to be the main political stories. And it may in part explain the apathy of political party support in the by election combined with its basic stability.  In a general election context this will change. The intense focus then will be on leadership and all its attributes, how these mattered in the past, how they seem marginal now. But the by-election is a fair reflection of how much or how little we care about the way things are going. 
