politics
{ BRUCE ARNOLD 
    June 18 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/elections-outcome-and-the-future-for-irish-politics-and-the-voters-26147528.html }
THE PRESS, together with radio and television, have for months shown prodigious energy in reporting and analysing the work of the Tribunals dealing with possible corruption over planning and the payment of money to politicians. It has been a primary focus of attention, eclipsing the Peace Process, Kosovo, the success of the economy and its impact on property prices. We have had the facts. We have had the analysis of the facts. We have had the re-enactment by actors of the various exchanges before the judges, and various figures, including barristers, the judges themselves, and most notably Mr Gogarty, have become part of a modern folklore. The folklore has its villains, towering above whom is the person of Charles J. Haughey. And predominantly, the villains belong to, or are secretly supporters of, the Fianna Fail Party. This is not exclusively the case, but largely so. VIVID ACCOUNT The one-time hero of the earlier folklore saga about how Ireland became a modern economy has, like the whole of Serbia, been degraded. And the latest episode in the story, involving Sweetie and the conflict in the views of Kevin O'Connor and Ruth Henderson about the injuries sustained in 1970, has given us yet another titbit of folklore to chew over. I visited Kinsealy at the time, and was shown by Charles Haughey himself the gap in the guttering above the stable door, and the piece of metal gutter leaning up against the wall. He gave quite a vivid account of the attempt he made to reach up and lift himself off his horse. And foolhardy though this piece of stable bravado seemed to be, it was a plausible explanation at the time. One believes things, for want of something better, for knowledge of something worse. It is hard to reconstruct what people believed at the time. Leaving aside the vexed question of what Charles Haughey achieved or did not achieve in power, there was a period when he was seen to be grappling with a central political problem, that of transferring political initiative from the control of a lethargic public service into the hands of a new and dynamic elected force. This was broadly represented by the Fianna Fail Party. BUT THE real inference was that the achievement, such as it was, lay in Haughey's own hands; and furthermore, the future, if he obtained overall power and control, would be even more brilliant. He sustained this image through his first decade in power, the 1960s. It ended in the ruin of the Arms Crisis and the trial, which was followed by his futile challenge against Jack Lynch. He rebuilt his own particular folklore of economic dynamism and political shrewdness during the 1970s, and became leader. That also ended badly. He couldn't win enough votes. He couldn't govern without getting his hands covered in black treacle. But he did sustain and expand the dark side of his own and Fianna Fail's politics during the whole of this period, the concept and practice of clientalism. Based on the idea of patron and client, and as ancient as the art of politics itself, it inevitably involves money buying favours, and runs counter to all the fundamentals of democracy as we know it. All political parties, by the nature of the game, offer some kind of return to their supporters. Democracy wouldn't work without this, and really does not work with it, since it is at odds with the democratic principles of egalitarian and fairness. The offer is often deliberately ill-defined in some areas, generalised in others, specific in very few; it ranges from ideologies and principles to jobs, contracts and planning permissions being dependent on what your politics are. And for the past three decades, Fianna Fail has been associated with the latter end of this list rather than the former. Various tribunals have identified how it worked and why it worked, and have inevitably located their findings in the past, a kind of political history over which towers the figure of Charles Haughey. He created a political culture, and it became a legacy. The party is still linked to that in a number of different ways. Now that the whole country knows how it works, where it worked, what kind of figures were involved, who operated the system best, and what a huge nonsense much of it was anyway, what has been the result? The answer is: very little. Clearly, from the election result, while Fianna Fail did not increase their support, and had the misfortune of losing a seat to Dana in the European elections, thus reducing their representation, there is still solid backing for what they represent. POLITICAL DIFFERENCE The degree to which the tribunals and other associated revelations, the most recent of which, leading to the resignation of Paddy Duffy, has a strong whiff of clientalism about it, have made any political difference is hard to measure. Does it mean that the supposedly important arm of democracy, the press, and radio and television, designed over centuries to protect freedoms and to expose activities which are an abuse of power, works away at this task, from time to time completes part of it, and then nothing happens? People read and follow events with the level of fascination given to good films and novels, or successful soap operas on television, but see no connection with their own lives, and are prepared to take no action other than continuing their support for their chosen newspaper and their interest in their favourite radio and television programmes. HAS THE information explosion, the right of access to documents, the sustained interrogations conducted by tribunals, Dail committees, the courts themselves, rendered us morally and politically sterile? Does the public view the apparent duel going on between the politicians and the media as a form of spectator sport in which they have no role except that of audience? Opinion polls and elections suggest as much. Bertie Ahern's ability to excuse himself on every question raised about what he knew and what he did about it, seems also to confirm this curious form of moral sterilisation. What we that is the people, do about it is more than just an electoral matter; or at least, it should be.  If a moral vacuum is being created, and the contest between the media and politics turned into a spectator sport, then action to rectify the dilemma falls back on the public's shoulders. How they deal with this is one of the most crucial issues for the coming century. 
