politics
{  
    October 24 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/mcdowell-is-political-catch-of-the-day-26107530.html }
MICHAEL McDOWELL is right to set a high price on his  own head. It teems with brilliant ideas, which seem currently in short supply in the political arena. It carries within it a  distinguished political pedigree. We are all broadly aware  that it has guided him through a brilliant career so far. And it even looks noble. He really is quite a catch. He belongs to a distinguished strand in political life, rather like John Kelly,though he was an academic lawyer rather than a practising one. They occupy a special political niche, one that seems to give them the right and even the duty to act as critics of themselves and those closest to them, in the belief that the public has an indulgent view of their kind. They are a special breed, lofty patrician voices who occupy the throne of grace in public affairs in a way that the normal run of political scrubber does not enjoy. So did it go wrong because the noble lord demanded too high a price for the spreading of his shadow over the shattered remains of the Progressive Democrats? And is that the end of the story? To answer the second of these questions first, one need only point back over the past dozen years. Virtually every political decision concerned with the process of coming to power has involved political parties in tedious and protracted negotiations that have rarely come right in the first instance. It need be no different here. If there is a measure of logical reasoning behind the efforts to amalgamate the revered name and lofty heritage of the Attorney General with the bruised fortunes of Mary Harney and her party, then it should not founder on the failure of both sides to find common ground at this stage of developments. The Progressive Democrats should be well experienced enough in the process to know this, as should Michael McDowell. Back in 1989, as those in the party who are still around will remember, the eventual arrival of Desmond O'Malley and Bobby Molloy in Charles Haughey's Government, with Mary Harney as a junior minister, followed long and protracted discussion and argument. Not the least of this took place within the party itself. Grim though the prospect was, the importance for the country was unarguable, and the deal was made. It meant, two years later, the overdue removal of Charles Haughey from power, and the movement towards a different era on Irish politics. A parallel experience, when the Reynolds' Government collapsed, and the Rainbow coalition was formed under John Bruton, ended less happily. But the needs were different, as was the handling of the process, which involved the mistaken blocking of the inclusion of the Progressive democrats by Labour. So none of us should write off a deal which has the highly important merit of offering to a party in disarray a genuine new departure in political thinking and the acquisition of an able and dynamic figure who has already distinguished himself in public life. McDowell's demands, of course, are outrageous. He is behaving true to form, in the career sense. As a leading barrister who can anyway return to practice at the bar when he gives up as Attorney General, he will no doubt make parallel demands in the private sector, in the form of fees for his undoubtedly brilliant services. But much more is at stake. What Desmond O'Malley recognised, when he steered the Progressive Democrats into power with Fianna Fail under Haughey, was the transcendental importance of his actions in terms of Ireland's needs. He did not want to help Haughey. He wanted to protect his country from a politically unsafe relationship with a leader running out of control. Michael McDowell needs to be brought to his senses on this level of action. The Progressive Democrats are not there as a vehicle purely for his ambition. And he is not there just to further that ambition. There is a country to govern. There are worthwhile and intelligent decisions to be made. There is power to be used for the benefit of people. There is trust to be restored. There is a shortage of confidence in those who rule over us, and this needs tobe recovered. And is it not also important that a measure of inspiration and belief be injected once again into the body politic? I would say, without too much hesitation, that the deal we see in tatters on the floor today has considerable promise for the future, and should in no sense be abandoned. It clearly has appeal in many respects. But it also has its enemies, and a good deal of personal arrogance is gumming up the process of reaching a new political structure. It will hardly be recovered in time for the Progressive Democrats conference in a fortnight's time. But that is of far less significance than the resurrection of thinking and of negotiations in the immediate days ahead. McDowell is wrong to rubbish the party's name. It is an honourable one, and much of the so-called ``baggage'' it carries has served us well. He should see himself as joining it, not remaking it. The rejoining process, if successful, will inevitably lead to reconstruction. The party badly needs that, as it badly needs a person of established political and legal talent to perform on the hustings. Which brings me to the second mistake I see in Michael McDowell's negotiations so far. ``Party President'' is a fine title, and a fine concept. But Michael McDowell is better than that, and needs less than a title in order to operate to the benefit of Mary Harney and her followers. It should not be all that difficult to reconstruct a deal. Michael McDowell still needs it. So do the Progressive Democrats. Let it be started up again. 
