politics
{ By MAURICE HAYES 
    August 21 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/bitter-turf-war-shows-the-bloody-rift-in-loyalism-26112078.html }
THE LATEST bloody turn in the feud between loyalist  paramilitaries should be a cause of worry not only to the security forces but to the wider community. There is of course an element of turf war as former muscle men relesed from prison on the early release scheme under the Good Friday Agreement return to their own stomping ground and seek to reassert themselves, to regain the ground they have lost while in jail, and to attract new young followers. There are also very clear indications of a commercial war associated with protection rackets on building sites and local businesses. More crucially, there are bitter competitive struggles between various groups engaged in drug trafficking to which loyalist paramilitaries have increasingly turned. As so often happens in these cases, those most at risk, apart from the combatants, are those who in opposing drug trafficking as a serious social evil, attract the wrath of both factions. More seriously in the long run, the struggle is about power and control and who will exercise it and also about strategy and tactics. It also reflects the breakdown of traditional political structures in what were former strongholds of unionism, the loss of power and influence by traditional leadership elites, and a general weakening of self-confidence which is also typical of the wider unionist community. It might also indicate that the delicate balance between politics and violence which is typical of paramilitary organisations on both sides is beginning on the loyalist side to tip once again away from the ballot box and towards the gun and the pipe bomb. In this respect, what is happening within loyalism is mirrored in the renewal of activity by the Real/Continuity IRA, the attempts to recruit new adherents to the old cause or to provide a refuge for those who had become disillusioned by the lack of the progress they had anticipated on the political front. This is much more loudly expressed within loyalism where paramilitary activities had always been more fragmented and in most ways less disciplined than their republican counterparts. There is as yet no sign of republican dissidents on the scale that is now being expressed in loyalist areas or the loss of influence by the political direction of Sinn Fein. For loyalist groups now to turn against politics and away from the influence of those who have tried to steer them in a political direction over the past few years would be profoundly destabilising and brings risks not only to the political process but to the community at large. Part of the problem has been the failure of political parties representing loyalist paramilitary groupings to gain sufficient success in the elections. This is particularly true of the UDA the largest group, for whom the LVF is often regarded as a flag of convenience, or a means whereby the more belligerent and irreconcilable faction can let off steam or worse. The failure of Garry McMichael, David Adams and John White to secure election to the Assembly left a considerable vacuum and devalued much of the patient and extremely courageous political work they had done over the past few years and severely weakened the UDP. The PUP, coming from a UVF background, did rather better with the election of Billy Hutchinson and David Ervine, surely the most persuasive advocate of a moderate approach to the resolution of conflict through the political process. However, the PUP, like the Women's Coalition, although vitally important in a catalytic sense for the progress of the negotiations which produced the Good Friday Agreement, lacked the critical mass to secure a seat at the Executive table. This perhaps exposes a flaw in the structures which reserved executive places for those representing the big battalions and left vitally important sections of society not only unrepresented at this level but aggrieved. It is a sore point for loyalists that they wield no power at ministerial level while their traditional enemies the republicans hold two important offices in Education and Health which not only affect the day to day life of their community but are extremely high profile in the public eye. One striking image of this disenchantment of politics is the attack on the house of Gusty Spence for years an iconic figure in loyalism and a man much respected in that a community as one who shared its values and had defended them by the use of arms. For a mob to attack the home of an elderly and sick man with that sort of record is an indication of the bitterness of the division and the extent to which nothing can any longer be regarded as sacred. Gusty Spence is a remarkable man and was extremely influential in turning loyalism towards politics and securing the concurrence of the prisoners in the peace process. Jailed for involvement in one of the earliest murders in the present troubles, it was while in jail he became a changed man reflective, analytical and passionately objective. Under his influence the prison became the political research centre and think tank for loyalism. Many of those who have led loyalist politics in recent years came through this school, and were strongly influenced by Spence. His was the voice which announced the loyalist ceasefire and did so in terms of regret for suffering caused which attracted much attention at the time. Perhaps it is significant too that most of the recently released prisoners were men who were not in jail with Spence, who were convicted after he had been released and who did not therefore come under his influence. This new generation competing for loyalist leadership are unlikely to be bothered by the niceties of political argument. In the present state of loyalism, they are more likely to strike out in a violent fashion. If they are not attacking each other or deed as an attempt to unite against the common enemy they might well turn to attacking Catholics in Catholic areas. There may even be an attempt through such attacks to provoke a retaliation from the IRA and thus restore the certainties of the traditional struggle with which they are much more comfortable. 
