politics
{  
    July 22 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/friend-of-bertie-welcome-to-the-board-25976737.html }
In the world of state jobs it's definitely who you know that makes the difference. Willie Dillon reports on our cosy system of political patrongage which exploded this week. Whether he realises it or not, Bertie Ahern struck a blow for transparency and accountability when he appointed his old girlfriend this week to a State job for which she has no obvious qualifications. In a single magnificently ill-judged decision, he managed to put tthe spotlight on a cosy system of political patronage which taoisaigh and isters generalgenerally prefer not to talk about. It's a process which discreetly oils the wheels of power wwhile also rewarding political loyalty and hard work. In a single magnificently ill-judged decision, he managed to put the spotlight on a cosy system of political patronage which taoisaigh and ministers generally prefer not to talk about. It's a process which discreetly oils the wheels of power while also rewarding political loyalty and hard work. Crudely put, it's known as political cronyism - jobs for the boys and girls. It's not exactly a State secret that governments appoint their own buddies and supporters to the boards of major public organisations. But as far as a great many politicians are concerned, the less the general public knows about it the better. Bertie's decision to elevate Celia Larkin to the board of the new National Consumer Agency was as good as 10 public service broadcasts on what really happens in the often feverish world of raw politics. That somebody in the beauty trade should be given this position while the Consumers Association of Ireland, which has battled for many years to promote consumers rights, is excluded, is frankly inexplicable. Until you factor in the role which party affiliation frequently plays in making such appointments. Ms Larkin's new job is not earth-shattering in itself. In the overall political scheme of things, it ranks well below getting a seat on a big State board. But neither is it an insignificant position. The new consumer agency is a national body whose role will be to protect all of us from being ripped off when purchasing goods and services. Her appointment highlights everything that's wrong with the current system. She has no known specialist knowledge in this field. The most she will possibly bring to the job is her own business experience. Rightly or wrongly, people automatically assume she got the position purely because of her personal connection with the Taoiseach. Semi-state boards are peppered with prominent party supporters and activists. Some of Bertie's most trusted political allies sit in the best boardrooms. Business consultant and Fianna Fail strategist Chris Wall is a director of Aer Lingus. So is solicitor and party fundraiser Ivor Fitzpatrick. Aer Lingus refuses to say how much the two men and their fellow board members are paid. The company says it is not obliged to make this information public. In actual fact, Aer Lingus directors receive ?12,697 a year. The Taoiseach's close friend Joe Burke is chairman of the Dublin Port Company for which he receives ?15,236. Celia Larkin's remuneration will be about ?5,000. In general, however, the money is irrelevant. Being on the board of a major State organisation confers considerable authority, status and prestige. It opens doors - political and business. Your views are taken seriously. The main benefit for the Minister is having a reliable set of eyes and ears, and mouthpiece, at the table when important decisions are made. "It's all about ego," says one well-placed observer. "That's why people are on boards. It's not about the money. Some of them in fairness are very good. But if you're doing it for the money, you're in the wrong job." None of this is to suggest that all government appointees are political puppets, or that they are unsuitable or unfit for the job. Most of them, in fact, have no political connections. But the appointments system lacks transparency and has little accountability. And of course, it's not just Fianna Fail. All parties do it when they are in power. Everybody is against it until they get the opportunity to do it themselves. But Green Party leader Trevor Sargent insists they would be different. He believes such positions should be filled by a Public Appointments Commission, with proper assessment and scrutiny. The Greens will be proposing such a body in any negotiations to form a government after the next election. "It would be more scientific and objective than what seems to be the case at the moment where, all too often, mediocre appointments are made largely on the basis of political affiliation." But how successful will he be in persuading his two potential coalition allies to support such a major change? "That remains to be seen. It depends on how serious they are, or whether this is a type of indignation that comes easily in opposition but seems to evaporate in government. I can't prejudge that. I have to take people as I find them and they're telling me that they regard it as unacceptable that political appointments are made in this fashion. "Under the present arrangement, the party in power is more interested in putting their canvassers and party workers into positions of control than ensuring public administration is of the highest standard. That's the bottom line and I think they should reflect on the impression they're giving by arguing for a continuation of this system." But as a politician, surely he can see just how tempting and attractive such power would be? "Well, it's tempting at times to abolish democracy," he laughs aloud, "if it doesn't go the way you want. But that's no excuse simply to do it. We have to have certain basic standards that form a civilised society and I think this is one system that's badly in need of reform." Deputy Sargent says that, if he was in government, the existence of an appointments commission would not prevent him recommending somebody for a post. But that person would then be subject to proper independent scrutiny. This would stop people from "riding roughshod" over the system, as currently happens. Asked why he thinks the Consumers Association was denied a seat on the new consumer agency, he says: "Maybe they didn't canvass for Fianna Fail. I don't know. That's the only rational explanation I can give." In this matter the Greens are political virgins; they have never been in power. The Labour Party, who know what it feels like, take a slightly different view. In essence, their view on this delicate topic is that they are open to partial conversion. They are prepared to give up this sweet vice, but not totally. Labour say they have proposed important reforms aimed at making ministers and governments more accountable. There should be greater Oireachtas scrutiny of such appointments. But ultimately, the power should continue to rest with the individual minister, rather than "an unaccountable quango". Cronyism is not confined to major semi-state boards. There are hundreds of other bodies and organisations - some high-profile, others not - to which a hard-working party activist can be appointed. A popular one is a place on a prison visiting committee, preferably at the far end of the country to enhance the mileage expenses. Ms Larkin's new job greatly strengthens the case for a more open system. Without intending to, the Taoiseach has made the most trenchant argument for greater transparency. Even if he had left the matter to the relevant minister, it wouldn't have looked quite so blatant. In a business where perception is everything, most people believe he has scored a personal own goal. Bertie isn't the first senior member of the present government to be in this kind of position. There were rumblings in the undergrowth in early 2001 when it emerged that Tanaiste Mary Harney was in a relationship with a man she had just appointed chairman of Fas. But it was quickly pointed out that she had announced her intention to give Brian Geoghehan the job before they actually became a couple. The appointment came first and the relationship followed. The two were subsequently married. In Bertie's case, the relationship came first and now an appointment has followed. Regrettably it seems there will be no similar happy ending for himself and Celia. 
