politics
{ Michael McDowell 
    November 01 2014 08:31 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/independents-cannot-unite-to-fight-for-ireland-but-a-new-party-could-30710515.html }
In recent months I have written here about the possibility of a political earthquake - a possibility even now acknowledged by veteran political analyst Stephen Collins. Today's opinion poll shows that the process of meltdown of support for the old political order is continuing.  Total support for Fine Gael and the Labour Party has now fallen below the one third support levels they have enjoyed in recent times. For Labour their 7pc support leaves nearly every seat vulnerable to Sinn Fein and Independent left-wing candidates, whose support is rising. The Coalition - which obtained two thirds of the seats in the last election with a enormous majority - now faces an election in which they can look forward to having 70 seats at the most - and possibly as low as 65. For Fianna Fail, the outlook is very bleak. The possibility of it forming a government is ever receding. Fianna Fail politicians know that to enter a coalition with Fine Gael would spell the end of their party. A Fianna Fail/Sinn Fein coalition would probably have the same result. Middle Ireland wants - and needs - a government which will manage our economy competently and steer a steady course between austerity on the one hand and left-wing ideology on the other. Support for a new party has reached an all-time high. This suggests that, in the last year in the life of this Dail, the opportunity exists to create a coherent competent and responsible political force which can ensure for middle Ireland the kind of government it wants. Independent and non-party TDs fall into two categories, which are broadly left and far left on the one hand and centrists on the other. Shane Ross is hoping to earn himself a place in Cabinet by acting as promoter or agent for a loose collection of Independent TDs who would support a government, including himself. Lucinda Creighton, on the other hand, stands halfway between her Reform Alliance and the formation of a new political party aimed at social conservatives in the main. Her problem is that the Reform Alliance was born out of the abortion controversy and still attracts a pro-life image. Stephen Donnelly, for his part, is a socially-progressive liberal who sees little to attract him in a socially-conservative party built on the foundations of the Reform Alliance. Other Independents - including Denis Naughton, Noel Grealish, Mattie McGrath - who are not regarded as left or hard-left in their politics see little advantage in exchanging their Independent status for a backbench role supporting Shane Ross, Lucinda Creighton or Stephen Donnelly in office. This week, Shane Coleman queried whether any of the existing TDs with ambitions to create a new movement enjoyed the public stature to carry off its creation. In my view, the most important factors which will decide on the viability and practicality of a new political party are the vision it offers, the competence it can demonstrate, the capacity to sustain a government and to influence its policies. Yes, the dice are loaded against new political parties (Fine Gael will receive almost €25m in public money by way of support in the lifetime of this Dail) and yes, the political commentariat may well doubt whether those elected public representatives who might form the nucleus of a new political party have the courage to do so (not to mention the generosity of spirit to put such a new movement before their own immediate interests and ambitions). Even so, it seems to me that the overwhelming public interest would now be served by a bold political initiative by all those who want to be part of a new political order taking the form of a worthwhile and coherent political party. Loose alliances of Independents, by their nature, amount to a very flimsy foundation for a government intent on carrying out major reforms. Herding mice is a futile political skill when the alternative of forming a cohesive party is available. Michael McDowell is a former Tanaiste, Justice Minister, Attorney-Gerneral and leader of the Progressive Democrats Sunday Independent 
