politics
{ Dan O'Brien 
    November 15 2014 10:01 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/as-political-centre-teeters-europe-is-on-edge-of-abyss-30748029.html }
Enda Kenny is now the sixth longest serving leader among the 28 member countries of the EU. He has achieved that level of seniority despite being Taoiseach for just three-and-a-half years. This is not merely an interesting fact. It says a great deal about European politics since 2008, a year that increasingly looks to be the dividing line between two eras and potentially as significant for the 21st century as 1989 or 1945 were for the 20th century. For some considerable time, journalists and commentators have spoken a great deal about the rise of political extremism in Europe during the era of austerity. In some countries the electoral successes of some parties whose democratic credentials are weak has been a worrying trend, but the much more marked trend in European politics has been less dramatic. For every voter who has shifted from a mainstream party to an extremist party, many more have moved from one mainstream party to another. Apart from Hungary, all the other 27 countries in the EU - and countries such as Switzerland, Norway and Iceland - continue to be led by mainstream democratic parties. An anti-incumbency bias, rather than a collapse of the moderate mainstream, has been the most important trend in European politics since 2008. But those who have argued that the current era mirrors the 1930s, when the political centre didn't hold in most of Europe, now have a stronger case to make. The remarkably similar recent developments in Ireland and Spain, along with longer-standing trends in Greece which could be coming to a head, suggest that after six years of economic crisis the political centre may no longer be holding in the countries worst affected by slump. All three countries will soon hold their second general election since 2008, and all the indications are that political turmoil is coming down the line. With each new opinion poll here at home, the collapse of the centre looks to be less about mid-term blues or even coalition incompetence, and more to do with a structural shift in Irish politics. In the Sunday Independent/Millward Brown poll of two weeks ago, the combined support of the three mainstream parties was below 50pc. If this were only to do with the low levels of support of the governing parties, it could be attributed to the anti-incumbency bias that has been so prevalent across the continent. But it is not. The strongest evidence pointing to a collapsing centre in Irish politics is Fianna Fail's performance. Not only is it failing to pick up any of the support the Government parties are losing, it is losing support itself. The most recent poll in this newspaper showed that it has lost almost one-third of the support it had earlier in the year. Now, on just 20pc, one of the most electorally successful parties in Europe over almost a century is only winning slightly more support than it did when it suffered an unprecedented drubbing at the last general election. It is probable that if faced with a snap election tomorrow, more voters would support the mainstream when choosing a government in the ballot box than they do when answering pollsters' questions. The state of the economy is another factor that could aid the centre ground. If the recovery continues on its current very positive trajectory, at least some of the disgruntled and disillusioned who now support Sinn Fein and Independents should switch back. But the weakness of the three mainstream parties in opinion polling looks so consistent, and the trend towards vote fragmentation so strong, that even in the best case scenario for Fine Gael, Fianna Fail and Labour, it is increasingly hard to see them winning 60pc of the vote combined. If that were to happen, Ireland could well be heading for ungovernability, as this column first argued last April. Now consider Spain. In its politics and economy, the Iberian country has been remarkably similar to Ireland. A boom, based much too heavily on property and construction, roared until 2008. Then came a violent crash landing, followed by an EU-IMF bailout (although one more limited than the Irish rescue). Spain's politics has mirrored Ireland's as closely as its economics. There was a huge swing away from the governing socialist party in the first general election following the crash and a massive majority for the centre right popular party. But the new government quickly lost support, and, despite an economic recovery taking hold, it is not recovering in the polls. Nor is the opposition socialist party benefiting from its rival's weakness. For the first time since the return to democracy in the 1970s, opinion polls are showing that support for the two big parties has fallen below 50pc. That is mostly because a new political party has emerged, almost out of nowhere, to become the best supported party in Spain. Podemos was set up at the beginning of the year and is breaking the effective duopoly that the big centre-left and centre-right parties have had since the end of dictatorship in the 1970s. Podemos is no mainstream party. Established by academics who have links to Venezuela's authoritarian regime, it advocates hard-left populism and claims that all Spain's ills can be overcome by painlessly defaulting and taxing plutocrats until the pips squeak. However bad things are in Spain, importing Latin American populism and thuggery would fail economically, and, more importantly, undermine freedom and democracy in Spain. If Spain doesn't lurch towards extremism at its next 2015 election, the chances are that Greece will. Of the longer established European democracies, it is the one in which the centre ground has looked shakiest. The centre-left Pasok party, whose cooking of the books triggered the entire eurozone crisis, has all but disappeared, having been one of two dominant parties since Greece returned to democracy in the 1970s. The centre-right New Democracy party, which currently leads the government, is struggling. While much of the international attention on Greece has focused on the fascist New Dawn party, it stands no chance of getting its hands on power and in a poll last weekend won just 4.5pc support, down from 10pc at its peak last year. The fortunes of the extreme left Syriza party have been very different. It increasingly looks like taking power at the next election. It overtook New Democracy in the polls earlier this year to become the largest party. It was four percentage points ahead of New Democracy in the May European Parliament elections and has consistently topped opinion polls since, often with a lead greater than that of the election six months ago. With an electoral system that gives the best supported party a 50-seat automatic bonus (in a parliament of 300), the chances of Syriza becoming the first extremist party to lead a government in the eurozone are considerable. Six years on from the collapse of Lehman Brothers and well into the second electoral cycle since the age of austerity began, the first serious signs of a collapsing centre are appearing. Those who have warned about the political effects of the economic crisis now really do have something to worry about. Twitter @danobrien20 Sunday Independent 
