politics
{  
    December 20 2011 12:44 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/johnny-fallon-how-keeping-it-in-the-family-has-done-us-as-much-good-as-bad-26803999.html }
POLITICAL dynasties have produced some of the most enduring characters and personalities from Irish history. Members of these families have held key roles and been at the heart of all major decisions for generations. The family still holds a particularly strong place in the Irish psyche. Most people seek to emulate or enhance their family name and in politics this sense is even more heightened. While some famous names have disappeared from the political map many are still instantly recognisable to even the casual observer of current affairs. Irish history has been moulded by many of these figures and there is little doubt but that their upbringing, sense of values and priorities were all influenced by the families they belonged to. The state owes a huge debt of gratitude to the Cosgrave’s for their place in the foundation of the state and as the only dynasty bearing a father and son Taoiseach combination their place is cemented in the annals of history. Their influence of state policy and their calm, if conservative approach, had a huge impact upon the state during some precarious times. The De Valera family is likewise secure in the knowledge that its place in the political hall of fame is certain. They also show us however, that it is not always easy to follow in the footsteps of such an all powerful predecessor. Equally the early election tribulations of Sile De Valera and Eamon O’Cuiv along with other dynasties such as the Kitt family prove to us that just holding a family name is not always a pass to guaranteed electoral success. Figures from the Lenihan family have always been larger than life and well liked. From the reforming days of the sixties, through the economic upheaval of the seventies, the crisis of leadership in the eighties, presidential elections, and banking bailouts the Lenihan dynasty has been in the rooms where decision matter and the future of the state is shaped for generations. They have held some of the most senior and influential ministries in our state and have been close to political intrigue over that time. Mary O’Rourke may have been a friend to Bertie Ahern but Brian Lenihan jnr. was most certainly not. The tug of war for power even recently within Fianna Fail was influenced hugely by the actions of the Lenihan family. Policy decisions, be it from the expansion of University places, law reform, reform of public transport, privatisations, children’s rights or bank guarantees, there are very few people whose lives have not been affected in some way by decision that were taken for better or worse. Political figures often trade on the capital of their predecessors. Achievements can be passed from one generation to another as a claim to fame. Equally it can represent a burden and someone like Sean Haughey represents a highly unusual figure in the political landscape. On one hand his father, while strong on many policy issues, is very much at the end of a spectrum all political parties, especially Fianna Fail want to leave behind. On the other hand his grandfather Sean Lemass is a polar opposite in that he is exactly what many political figures are trying to emulate and represents the Fianna Fail that Micheal Martin would like to revive. Irish politics is highly personal. Loyalty is often given to the individual ahead of the party. As such it is no surprise to find dynasties of Independent candidates and there was probably none more influential than that of the Blaney’s in Donegal. Other examples such as the Healey-Raes' and people like Michael Lowry have shown us that when an individual leaves a party they often bring the supporters with them and these supporters can remain over subsequent generations. Dynasties are not all just about the parent to child relationship either. Many siblings have enormous influence over our lives through their political connections. Few could argue but that Bertie Ahern and his brothers possessed a stranglehold on politics, particularly in Dublin for many years. Having a sibling you can trust at your side counts for a lot in politics. There can also be no doubt that no siblings have ever had as much influence over the policy, course and direction of a party as John and Richard Bruton have held over Fine Gael. The have held the key posts and they most important roles in the party and been the heart of its direction and its fate for over 20 years. Enda Kenny himself is from a political dynasty having succeeded his father as a TD and again he can rest assured that as he climbs the ladder his patch at home is safe as his brother keeps an eye from his position as councillor. The 2011 general election saw some very big dynasties fall. History shows us that such dynasties are also tenacious and it would be unwise to be against at least some of these names reappearing in the future. Equally, we can be assured that as some of the ‘new’ politicians establish themselves and make a name for themselves, when the time comes there will be a generation ready to follow in their footsteps and create a whole new set of dynasties. As voters we tend to like a name we know.  Dynasties : Irish Political Families
by Johnny Fallon New Island) €16.99. 
