politics
{ John Drennan 
    April 05 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/politics-is-on-trial-and-the-verdict-rests-with-an-angry-public-26526282.html }
This week politics will be on trial in Ireland in a manner that has not been seen since the civil war. Now, as then, the verdict of the international markets and the people will have real implications for the existence of the State. If they mess this one up -- and the barometer is very delicately poised -- the very legitimacy of FF, FG and Labour will also collapse, for if the politicians fail the people next week the streets will be on fire by the autumn and it will be hard to condemn the fire-starters. Since they have not been in government, Fine Gael and Labour may believe it unfair putting them into the same dock as Fianna Fail. However, the Olympian levels of stupidity and sloth which has seen FF, the social partners and our top mandarins wreck the country, mean we can no longer afford the luxury of ignoring parties who could be in power before the summer. Of course, in a real sense the trial has actually started. So far it has gone badly for the defence because the indictment is a simple one. A corrupt plutocracy of bankers, builders and inept regulators which turned a prosperous exporting economy into the Wild West of Europe has left us at the very gates of a debtors' gaol for countries that go bad. We are, as of now, going to take in €34bn (if we are lucky) of tax revenue, spending €21bn of that on social welfare alone and that's before we get to the civil service pay and the rest of the €60bnplus apparatus of government. As the real economy seizes up like a car without oil, by the close of the year half a million of our best and brightest citizens are poised to experience the financial and psychological strain of being unemployed. Nothing captured the bankruptcy of the political class more than the performance of Simon Coveney on Questions and Answers last week. John Bowman's query as to what Fine Gael's budgetary strategy would be provided Simon with a perfect opportunity to articulate a compelling political agenda. Instead, Coveney whined, dodged and blustered in a manner that would have almost embarrassed a Fianna Fail minister. MAEVE SHEEHAN & NIAMH HORAN Page 26 The essence of Coveney's position was that because the Government had not provided Fine Gael with all the figures it wanted, he and his party would not be providing the country with any leadership. Seeing as the biggest Sun-reading simpleton who spends his day sitting in a bar knows the basic structure of the nation's finances it is frightening to think this hapless political aristocrat believes he needs to have his hand held by Brian Lenihan and told he's a great lad for coming in before he will come up with an idea. In a real sense it is a bit unfair to pick Simon out as his twittering was only the opening salvo of a political Dutch auction of irresponsibility. The survival of the Irish economy and our status as an independent state is predicated upon a budget that will inspire phrases such as 'shock and awe'. If we are to regain our credibility as a mature nation we have to deal with the position where we are employing 60,000 more public sector workers and spending €6bn more than we can afford. In short we have to reform ourselves today rather than tomorrow. But the Opposition's obsession with the Lilliputian gamesmanship of political advantage means they took their eyes off the economic ball last week. In a pre-budget briefing Fine Gael decided €3.5bn was as far as they would go. You, the members of the jury, are not impressed? Well, hold on to your seats for at least Fine Gael have the nerve to come up with 60 per cent of the loaf. In contrast Labour's Pollyannas came up with €1.9bn. Sure, Eamon, if the problem is that small we don't need an emergency budget at all. When it comes to accusations of talking the talk but not walking the walk Labour still trail a long way behind the worst government we have had since the Irish parliament of 1801. As with every other crisis the Government has spent the lead-up talking tough but there are real signs that they are about to go soft. That at least is the only explanation for the unique response to our €20bn-plus borrowing crisis which appears to consist of a proposal to borrow another €2bn. Such a terrifying absence of courage has not just left our political establishment open to the charge that when it comes to next week's trial our defendants are of a mind to skip bail and flee the country. It also contrasted with the Eighties, for back then when FF had their first go at bankrupting the country at least the party contained free-thinking, courageous, straight-talking dissenters such as Charlie McCreevy. Last week the silence of the current careerist political mice was only broken by James McDaid's warning that he would vote against the budget if it wasn't tough enough. With the best will in the world, if Jimmy is FF's last hero then we are in trouble. In the Eighties Garret FitzGerald was offering a tough-minded alternative to Haughey's reckless prioritisation of the interests of FF over those of the nation. Today we have Enda Kenny and, God help us, his putative successor Simon Coveney. The inadequacy of the budget submissions also suggested our politicians do not realise that when it comes to the legitimacy of conventional political parties Ireland is at a real tipping point. Sinn Fein may have debased the concept of the political mandate but if democracy is to operate satisfactorily political parties must have the acquiescence of the population. The current shaky status of all our parties was epitomised by the feral anger of the audience during a recent Late Late Show debate on the Seanad. Afterwards there was much criticism about the decision to let a 'mobocracy' loose on our poor senators. The problem we, however, have with these fine-minded critics of the gathering mob is that it actually consisted of what politicians normally refer to in their own gloriously condescending manner as 'ordinary people'. Such 'ordinary' people are not the mob 'type'. However, in these abnormal times the State would be wise to realise that revolutions are generally led by dispossessed primary school teachers or architects, tradesmen and barristers, rather than working class rioters. As Mr Cowen, 'I'm-all-right- Jack' O' Connor, and a cabinet of political adolescents, who are as open to charges of treasonable behaviour as our bankers, finalise their deliberations they would be well advised to bear one small thing in mind. If the people are that angry about the harmless Seanad what will their response be if our political heroes mess up the budget? 
