politics
{ John Drennan 
    September 06 2014 10:38 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/coalition-must-resist-the-easy-politics-of-promises-30567483.html }
It might be thought the return of what Tanaiste Joan Burton calls, "a modest prosperity", can only represent good news for the embattled Coalition.  However, one of the more intriguing features of this happy change in our fortunes is the anxiety of Ms Burton to ensure the "modest prosperity"phrase enters the political lexicon. Ms Burton has many political qualities, but a taste for understatement is not one. The excitement of others is, of course, understandable for after seven years of economic famine and seven months of post Troika political famine, the political equivalent of dry land can be seen. But the Tanaiste knows all too well that one of the greatest dangers those rescued from famine face is that they eat and drink too much in the immediate aftermath of their rescue. This knowledge means a curious synergy is emerging between Joan and Micheal Noonan, whose long-term plan of patience, caution competence and cunning is, after recent difficult electoral times, becoming attractive once again. They may still be an unloved Government, but should the Coalition Duracell bunny keep going at a slow uneventful pace, it is now possible they can, preferably in the first months of 2016, pass out their Fianna Fail, Sinn Fein and Independent nemeses as our 'modest prosperity' slowly sucks the political juice out of them. The one problem with that particular dream is that, on more than one occasion, good news appears to pose as much of a threat as a promise to the Coalition. This is an administration that has displayed a great facility in managing bad news. By contrast, as the chaos that necklaced itself around the Troika exit revealed, they have been extraordinarily bad in handling good tidings. In fairness, last week Joan Burton, Michael Noonan and Enda (yes he's back just in case you hadn't noticed the Dear Leader's extended departure) sounded like political Siamese triplets as they tried to set a political agenda of 'careful now'. The problem, though, is that after seven years of famine, the accelerating decline of the Iron Age of austerity may release forces the Coalition will struggle to control. It does not help in that were Irish politics recast as a musical, the cheery amoral 1960s show, Promises Promises would be about as good a template as you could find. The ongoing popularity of the politics of Promises Promises is all the more surprising given that, if only for the good of our Dear Leaders there is surely an argument for putting the EPO of promises on the political equivalent of a list of prohibited substances. Nothing haunts our politicians more than the miles they have to walk to try and slide past the promises they make to secure power and office. However, despite the various morality tales from 'honest' Jack Lynch's great giveaway in 1977 to Labour and 'Every Little Hurts' or even Pat Rabbitte's woes, promises are the equivalent of the hive that, like bears in the woods, our politicians cannot keep their noses out of. They may suffer the sourness of being stung more often than the sugar and spice of free honey, but the promise of sweetness keeps them going. Now, sadly, despite all the pious talk of 'never again' our politicians haven't been able to pass the first open bar they met without falling straight back into drunken sailor mode again. It was started by Leo who has trotted in the door like a clever cattle dealer in a 1950s fair, telling Brendan Howlin that "for a mere €500m boss" we'll have a 'deal' on the HSE bill. As we wonder will Enda play the role of the 'tangler' in a horse fair who will drag the two together shouting, "ah lads there's no difference between the two of ye, come on there now spit on it and we are done". Leo's half a billion is only the start of it. Intriguingly even the nose of the budgetary Grand Inquisitor, Mr Howlin, has also been snuffling around the budgetary pot as Labour attempts to rekindle the lost love of the public sector. Should Leo get his 'modest' half a billion, how sacrificial will his constituency running mate Joan, or Lady Frances in Justice, who wouldn't mind recruiting a few boys in blue prior to the elections, or Education Minister Jan O'Sullivan feel? And if FG is getting its tax cuts surely the Tanaiste will also be seeking to a reverse of those politically wounding child-benefit cuts and to perhaps even bring back the old Christmas bonus. That isn't the end of it either, for ministers of a most variegated hue are talking of a menu of tax options from cuts to USC, cuts to the top tax rate, cuts to the lower tax rate and income tax bands. The slight problem with all this, alas, is that whilst the ministers mean only one of four options, Paddy, who as we have noted before always prefers a nice story to the real story, will start to look for all four. The prospect of budgetary easing is already changing the political dynamic for the worse. Despite the 'steady now' performances of Joan and Michael, who are swiftly evolving into our national grandparents, an air of post Troika madness is back. It is a fever which, if not controlled, offers real challenges to the Taoiseach and a Finance Minister who must now adapt to the difficulty of managing a culture of dealing with modest prosperity in a country that really only likes the extremes of boom and bust. Whatever about Mr Kenny, our Captain Mainwaring of a Finance Minister and his new ally Joan are wise enough to know a return to modest prosperity, or more accurately a milder form of insolvency poses the Coalition with new and equally dangerous dilemmas. In Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening, the poet Robert Frost famously wrote: "the woods are lovely, dark and deep, But I have promises to keep, And miles to go before I sleep." Though they are dark and deep, sadly the Irish political woods are far from lovely when it comes to a Coalition that has many miles to travel, if it is to keep old let alone new promises. Sunday Independent 
