politics
{ Ciarran Walsh 
    May 14 2014 05:09 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/the-facebook-election-how-important-is-social-media-30274962.html }
Karey McHugh (24) thinks the biggest mistake ever made in Irish politics is the way 'they' managed to cause so much mistrust between her generation and the political establishment.  "An awful lot of people my age would never trust a politician," she says. McHugh's declaration echoes the judgment Pearse passed on the political establishment in Ireland a hundred years ago, the modern version of which would go something like this: the fools, the fools, they've left us with a mountain of debt, poor health services and charge after charge. The people of Ireland are seething with frustration and next week's election will be an opportunity to take revenge. McHugh is running as an ex-Labour independent in the Tuam area in Co Galway and she is one of the candidates hoping to capitalise on the widespread feeling of disenfranchisement. I talked to 10 candidates who are running for the first time and asked them if the era of the middle aged, middle-of-the road teacher/solicitor/farmer/accountant acting as local representatives is coming to an end and what role, if any, social media will have in changing the face of Irish politics. I also asked what motivated them to get involved in politics and what training, if any, they received. Some of the candidates come from political families with a background in politics. Others have no political experience as such and got involved in politics through college or community work. The overriding motivation seems to be a feeling that local politics doesn't work and that people in this age group are fed up. McHugh made the move from voluntary community work to politics and was 'welcomed' into the Labour Party but became disillusioned by the disconnect between the local and national organisation and a one-size-fits-all approach to local issues. "It's time for a new point of view" she declares in her election material. Her father manages her campaign and her family and friends are involved in a traditional canvas that is backed up by a visually strong and interactive online campaign managed by McHugh herself. Facebook and Twitter are as important as posters and handshakes. Gavin Nugent (23) is running in Gorey, Co Wexford. He thought about supporting an existing candidate but, 10-12 weeks out from the election, he realised his generation is not represented at any level in Irish politics and decided to run as an independent. He is managing his campaign with a core of 10-12 supporters drawn from family and friends with a wider network of supporters drawn from school friends mainly. He is paying for his campaign from accumulated holiday pay and he traded in his iPad to pay for his campaign leaflets. He is not using posters. He has very little experience of elections but studied commercial campaigns in college and has adapted this to his election campaign. His analysis is succinct and politically smart. He believes that the micro-campaigns made possible by social media can be effective. Assuming a 50-55pc turnout, he could squeeze in on 850 votes but would need 1,200 to be sure. His posts on Facebook never get less than a thousand hits and regularly exceed 3,000. Demographics are an issue though. Social media has less penetration in the 40+ demographic, getting young people out to vote is always a challenge and canvassing remains hugely important to his campaign. Adrian Kavanagh of NUI Maynooth, the go-to source for statistics on the election, has blogged that there are more independents running in the 2014 local elections than ever before. The key issue, according to Nugent, is how that vote breaks down – whether it goes to the left or to independents across the spectrum. All eyes are on Sinn Féin and the People Before Profit Alliance. Martin Grehan (29) is running for the Alliance in Maynooth. The impact of austerity has led to an upsurge in support for his party. It is fielding 43 'activists' in 20 urban centres across the country, half of which are in the greater Dublin area. It will be using a combination of poster, canvass and Facebook to get the vote out. Part of the attraction of the Alliance, according to Grehan, is that they will not behave like other local representatives, if elected, having nothing to do with the 'junket' mentality associated with County Councils. Fintan Warfield (21) is running for Sinn Féin in Dublin 6W and, in some ways, he is the poster boy for the new face of local politics. He is as close to a celebrity candidate as Sinn Féin gets. He studied media and communications at third level before he joined trad music outfit Derek Warfield and the Young Wolfe Tones. "I have one suit," Warfield says, laughing, but adds quickly that "it is important to look like you take politics seriously, that you do take your candidacy seriously and that you communicate it by dressing appropriately." And he is serious. He entered politics at 16 years of age and was asked by Sinn Féin to run in Dublin 6W in this election. He represents the cutting edge of the 'Mary Lou' effect, Sinn Féin's strategy of fielding young candidates who are untroubled by 'legacy issues' and are positioned to benefit from McDonald's performance on the Public Accounts Committee. A breakthrough in Dublin 6W would be significant. Sinn Féin is seen as setting the pace and the main political parties are playing catch up. It looks like this election has the highest number of candidates aged between 18 and 35 of any election to date. They have little or no track record – something that counts a lot in local politics – and very little experience of the mechanics of getting elected. Some of them were running their own campaigns while others were relying on mothers and fathers who have experience of electioneering. The candidates who are members of a party have more support in terms of training and campaign management. Among the independents there was very little training available. Some had studied a mix of media, public affairs and political communication in college and have the theory of local government but no idea of how to canvass, manage votes or deal with a frustrated electorate. Are they making it up as they go along? Not really. Most have a plan and have received advice on how to canvass for votes. People Before Profit provided coaching for candidates and canvassers on personal presentation and "how to operate in an efficient manner (and) deal with the small number of people who come out roaring and screaming at you or a door is slammed on you – maybe three times in a couple of thousand knocks" according to Grehan. In terms of the candidates who have come through the party system, training was available through a series of seminars and workshops, but most seemed reluctant to talk about it lest it be seen that they were following a party 'handbook' and were constrained as such as individual candidates. Being seen to be 'toeing the party line' was something they wanted to avoid at all costs. I spoke to Kate Martin (26) of Fianna Fáil, Cillian Griffey (23) of Fine Gael, Claire Byrne (37) of the Green Party, Daithí De Róiste (26) of Fianna Fáil and Martina Genockey (29) of Labour. Martin is running in Cork. She is a novice but has an extensive family background in politics and is struggling to impose her own identity on the ticket. Griffey is the youngest candidate ever selected for FG in Clare. Byrne has a wealth of party political experience, having worked as a personal adviser to Eamon Ryan while he was a minister. It feels like a different election. Whether it is training or campaign management, there is a sense of being careful of party positions. This lessens the impact candidates as individuals can make, something that is apparent in the sophistication and uniformity of party candidates' online campaigns. Two candidates did stand out for their passion and conviction: De Róiste in Ballyfermot and Genockey in Tallaght. Genockey is from Jobstown, Labour heartland, and her mother, an effective activist in her own right, had a huge influence on her decision to run for Labour. Her campaign builds on her involvement in community development and is heavily supported by the party. Daithí De Róiste, or David Roche, changed his name to Irish long before he got involved in politics and, while he is deeply committed to the language, he doesn't believe it is an issue in this election. There is no history of politics in his family but he has been interested in politics since he was in primary school. He has a degree in politics and a masters in Public Affairs and Political Communication and he served an apprenticeship as a community representative for two years before being selected to run in the election. De Róiste is running a back-to-basics campaign, trying to resuscitate Fianna Fáil "after it was smashed, and rightly so, in the 2011 election". He sees "an electorate that is disconnected from and distrustful of politics ... people are just fed up with what's there. They think it's time for a new generation to come forward and represent them. "You hear that this is the 'New Generation' or 'Facebook election' and, while social media have a prominent role, they can't take away from being out there knocking on someone's door. Nothing will ever beat the personal approach. Social media only works if you put yourself out there." Putting yourself out there can be tough. All the candidates have tended to play down the level of aggression they experienced but there have been unpleasant incidents during the campaign. Genockey and her mother were confronted by 'protesters' during a canvass and videos of the encounter were posted online. It was apparently linked to a series of personalised and offensive posts on her Facebook page that Genockey has described as a campaign of cyber bullying. Genockey is well aware of the need to get past that anger. The best advice she got was to try and meet as many people as possible and, in general, she hasn't had many bad experiences. "There are people who don't want to talk to you and there are others who rant and rave a bit but you've knocked on their door and you have a duty to listen. Others tell you to eff off, and you do, you eff off. But most people who are angry are civil about it. "What happened the other day was very different, it had nothing to do with the canvass or with representing Labour." It does highlight an aspect of social media that has positive and negative consequences for candidates. The down side is that the internet never sleeps and politicians are no longer insulated from the pent up frustration of some constituents. The positive side is the interactivity and dialogue that comes with social media. Working the crowd and pressing the flesh at funerals is less important and politicians now have a set of accessible and interactive tools that can reach beyond the poster and 'brand' a candidate like never before. This is where Facebook comes into its own. Candidate 'branding' was pounced upon in the blog 'Irish Election Rides'. Claire Byrne and Gavin Nugent both featured in it. Nugent was nonplussed and even a little embarrassed but Byrne was much more pragmatic. "It added a bit of fun to the campaign," she says, but it does raise the issue of image management and "the whole question of posters, which is something that seriously needs to be discussed. Facial recognition is important (but) I think it would be inaccurate to assume that people vote solely on the basis of someone's visage rather than their policies and integrity." It's a view that's shared across the board. 'Grooming' is not a major priority. The candidates dress for the job in hand. All of them equate personal presentation with seriousness of purpose and dress accordingly. The other risk posed by social media is the chance of something nasty lurking in the back pages of Facebook. None of the candidates had to scrub their pages. Most of them are private – or became private as soon as they decided to run. Claire Byrne thinks that most people are realistic about social media. "We have social lives and this is who we are." No big deal. The people I spoke to are representative of a group of young candidates who make up around 12pc of the total number of candidates. This is a local election and will be decided on local issues in parishes across the country. The big questions are whether social media can swing things in favour of the brat pack or will the party system, with its superior resources and campaign management, prevail. Do demographics favour the status quo or will the people of Ireland have their revenge? Will Nugent get 1,200 votes without posters, will the rebranding of Sinn Féin deliver a seat in Dublin 6W and will Tuam elect a renegade? And what happens in the centre? Will it hold? Can De Róiste resuscitate Fianna Fáil and will Tallaght forgive Labour? We'll know on the 23rd. Weekend Magazine 
