politics
{ Olivia RYAN 
    June 30 2011 11:22 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/a-man-almost-too-decent-for-politics-26954757.html }
THE young Seamus Kirk, who made his name as a prominent player with the Louth GAA team in the 1960s, isn't, I imagine all that different from the man who reflects now on a political career spanning five decades. From his first foray on Louth County Council in 1974 to taking the 'top seat' at Dail Eireann as Ceann Comhairle in October 2009, he has been a key player in national and local politics, and a first hand witness to the rise and fall of Fianna Fail. But through it all, one word has characterised the man who has been described as 'almost too decent for politics'-modest. 'I always had sense that if you could do some good in the community, you should. It's a case of looking at things and saying 'how can we do better for the people of this community',' says Seamus. He admits that this sense of 'civic or social responsibility' has somehow become lost in Irish society, either chewed up by the celtic tiger, or missing from communities struggling to survive during the recession. 'I think a lot of this voluntary work used to be done by religious orders, and by the church in local communities.' Not wanting to be drawn into a debate on the clerical sex abuse scandals that have dogged the catholic church, he adds: 'I think a lot of them (priests) have been unfairly treated.' He admits that from the outset he 'threw himself into politics wholeheartedly', and decided he would be the sort of public representative who would always be available to his constituents. 'I went into politics with the ethos that I'd be available to people on a twenty-four-seven basis, and I'm still like that really.' ' To be that sort of politician has a huge impact on family and your personal life of course, but it was the only way I knew how to be. It was important for me to be there for those who elected me and continued to support me.' The 1970s were, he says, a busy time, as his career progressed. Working a farm at his family home in Knockbridge, he also acted as an agricultural adviser, and with his wife Mary watched their family grow (they have four children). The 1980s, he reflects, were a tough time in politics, and in Irish society as a recession took hold and mass emigration began. 'People were leaving the country in huge numbers then, maybe even more so than now. The economy was in chaos, and there were huge protests on our streets. It seemed that there would be no end to the turmoil.' As with the recent economic downturn, politicians struggled to provide solutions to the chaos, and it was at this time Seamus Kirk took up his first ministerial post. Appointed as Minister of State at the Department of Agriculture and Food from 1987 to 1992, he described it as a 'privilege, and a highlight of his career' ideally suiting his own agricultural background. 'The economy began to turn around as well in the 1990s, and the country started on a new positive path.' True, by the end of the decade Ireland had come into its own as a strong and confident modern nation. In that time, Seamus Kirk's commitment to Fianna Fail was rewarded with the position as chairman of the Fianna Fáil parliamentary party, which he held from 2002 until October 2009. 'There was a lot more work involved for me, a lot of meetings, but I hugely enjoyed it. It was a chance to really make an impact, and I was personally involved in developing Bord Glas.' An unsuccessful candidate for election to the European Parliament in 2004 in the Leinster constituency (running mate Liam Aylward took a seat for Fianna Fáil), Seamus continued with a mantra of 'fair and honest' representation for the people of Louth. The highlight of a lengthy political career came on October 13th 2009 when Kirk succeeded John O'Donoghue as Ceann Comhairle after O'Donoghue resigned over an expenses controversy. Nominated for the post by the then Taoiseach Brian Cowen, he still speaks of the pride at assuming the position. 'It was a bit unfortunate that I got the job because of someone else's .' misfortune,' says Seamus, with typical modesty. 'But it was important role to take on, especially at the time, when the temperature in the house was high! It was a very difficult time for the country, and still is He speaks of having 'no regrets' but feels a deep sense of sorrow at the economic downturn that catapulted the country into recession. 'I really feel for people who are stuck with huge debts and mortgages. I think its important that we have a sense of compassion, that cannot be lost.' The role Fianna Fail played in the economic downturn is one he surely has been pressed on before? ' Yes, of course there were mistakes made. I have no doubt that of the decisions taken, if they had to be made again, they might be taken differently. 'It's clear that we simply didn't have a regulatory system that was fit for purpose. It is a different situation now, which we all welcome.' He argues that the only way forward for the country now is 'tackling the issue of competitiveness.' 'We cannot give on the corporation tax issue, we simply can't. This wrestling with banks and bondholders has to stop, we need a longer term plan.' But, he insists, we must remember what happened in Ireland was part of a larger picture, and produces a copy of the front cover of a controversial new book I admit I have heard of. Called 'A Colossal Failure of Common Sense - The Incredible Story of the Collapse of Lehman Brothers' by Larry McDonald, it catalogues the litany of failures in the sub prime mortgage sector which were behind the toppling of the US economy. 'When I read this book it opened my eyes to what went on, how the sub prime mortgage sector was so deeply embedded in the American economy.' The rippling affect of the US economy's struggles were profoundly felt in Ireland, he insists, where American investments provided thousands of jobs for Irish workers during the 'Celtic Tiger' era. 'Since then we have so many companies closing, and in towns like Dundalk, almost all of the traditional industries are gone.' 'But out of all of this I think we have seen some inspiring examples of ordinary people building up their own businesses, almost block by block. Foreign Direct Investments by multi national companies will have their roles to play of course, but I hope we see more indigenous companies.' Returning to a 'transformed Dail' in March this year was 'unbelievable' says Seamus. 'I still can't believe how different it is, but that's the nature of democracy, and we are in a new era now.' Fianna Fail are, he insists adopting a 'spiritual approach' and intend to spend this time in opposition to 'recharge.' 'There is a spirituality about the party now, they recognise the need for rebuilding. I think its important for better communication, and in Michael Martin we have not only a very able leader, but a great communicator.' He says that the need to transform Irish politics is linked to electoral reform. 'We probably do need to change the electoral system, in fact I think this is a more urgent need than abolishing the Senate, but I don't see it happening tomorrow.' The death of former Finance Minister, Brian Lenihan only a few weeks ago had a resounding affect on the party, given his running for the Fianna Fail leadership just months beforehand. 'He had been in great spirits well after the election, but that changed in the last six weeks of his life. It was clear that his health wasn't good.' 'Brian was a very affable person, very amiable, and well liked by the people. He will be sorely missed.' Committing himself to running again in the next election, he adds: 'As things stand I intend to run again.' It may be too early for talk of the legacy he will leave behind on Irish politics, but when asked how he would like to be remembered, Seamus Kirk is modest again in his response. 'The people who matter most to me in politics are the electorate. I'd like to be remembered as someone who did some service to the community.' THE young Seamus Kirk, who made his name as a prominent player with the Louth GAA team in the 1960s, isn't, I imagine all that different from the man who reflects now on a political career spanning five decades. From his first foray on Louth County Council in 1974 to taking the 'top seat' at Dail Eireann as Ceann Comhairle in October 2009, he has been a key player in national and local politics, and a first hand witness to the rise and fall of Fianna Fail. But through it all, one word has characterised the man who has been described as 'almost too decent for politics'-modest. 'I always had sense that if you could do some good in the community, you should. It's a case of looking at things and saying 'how can we do better for the people of this community',' says Seamus. He admits that this sense of 'civic or social responsibility' has somehow become lost in Irish society, either chewed up by the celtic tiger, or missing from communities struggling to survive during the recession. 'I think a lot of this voluntary work used to be done by religious orders, and by the church in local communities.' Not wanting to be drawn into a debate on the clerical sex abuse scandals that have dogged the catholic church, he adds: 'I think a lot of them (priests) have been unfairly treated.' He admits that from the outset he 'threw himself into politics wholeheartedly', and decided he would be the sort of public representative who would always be available to his constituents. 'I went into politics with the ethos that I'd be available to people on a twenty-four-seven basis, and I'm still like that really.' ' To be that sort of politician has a huge impact on family and your personal life of course, but it was the only way I knew how to be. It was important for me to be there for those who elected me and continued to support me.' The 1970s were, he says, a busy time, as his career progressed. Working a farm at his family home in Knockbridge, he also acted as an agricultural adviser, and with his wife Mary watched their family grow (they have four children). The 1980s, he reflects, were a tough time in politics, and in Irish society as a recession took hold and mass emigration began. 'People were leaving the country in huge numbers then, maybe even more so than now. The economy was in chaos, and there were huge protests on our streets. It seemed that there would be no end to the turmoil.' As with the recent economic downturn, politicians struggled to provide solutions to the chaos, and it was at this time Seamus Kirk took up his first ministerial post. Appointed as Minister of State at the Department of Agriculture and Food from 1987 to 1992, he described it as a 'privilege, and a highlight of his career' ideally suiting his own agricultural background. 'The economy began to turn around as well in the 1990s, and the country started on a new positive path.' True, by the end of the decade Ireland had come into its own as a strong and confident modern nation. In that time, Seamus Kirk's commitment to Fianna Fail was rewarded with the position as chairman of the Fianna Fáil parliamentary party, which he held from 2002 until October 2009. 'There was a lot more work involved for me, a lot of meetings, but I hugely enjoyed it. It was a chance to really make an impact, and I was personally involved in developing Bord Glas.' An unsuccessful candidate for election to the European Parliament in 2004 in the Leinster constituency (running mate Liam Aylward took a seat for Fianna Fáil), Seamus continued with a mantra of 'fair and honest' representation for the people of Louth. The highlight of a lengthy political career came on October 13th 2009 when Kirk succeeded John O'Donoghue as Ceann Comhairle after O'Donoghue resigned over an expenses controversy. Nominated for the post by the then Taoiseach Brian Cowen, he still speaks of the pride at assuming the position. 'It was a bit unfortunate that I got the job because of someone else's .' misfortune,' says Seamus, with typical modesty. 'But it was important role to take on, especially at the time, when the temperature in the house was high! It was a very difficult time for the country, and still is He speaks of having 'no regrets' but feels a deep sense of sorrow at the economic downturn that catapulted the country into recession. 'I really feel for people who are stuck with huge debts and mortgages. I think its important that we have a sense of compassion, that cannot be lost.' The role Fianna Fail played in the economic downturn is one he surely has been pressed on before? ' Yes, of course there were mistakes made. I have no doubt that of the decisions taken, if they had to be made again, they might be taken differently. 'It's clear that we simply didn't have a regulatory system that was fit for purpose. It is a different situation now, which we all welcome.' He argues that the only way forward for the country now is 'tackling the issue of competitiveness.' 'We cannot give on the corporation tax issue, we simply can't. This wrestling with banks and bondholders has to stop, we need a longer term plan.' But, he insists, we must remember what happened in Ireland was part of a larger picture, and produces a copy of the front cover of a controversial new book I admit I have heard of. Called 'A Colossal Failure of Common Sense - The Incredible Story of the Collapse of Lehman Brothers' by Larry McDonald, it catalogues the litany of failures in the sub prime mortgage sector which were behind the toppling of the US economy. 'When I read this book it opened my eyes to what went on, how the sub prime mortgage sector was so deeply embedded in the American economy.' The rippling affect of the US economy's struggles were profoundly felt in Ireland, he insists, where American investments provided thousands of jobs for Irish workers during the 'Celtic Tiger' era. 'Since then we have so many companies closing, and in towns like Dundalk, almost all of the traditional industries are gone.' 'But out of all of this I think we have seen some inspiring examples of ordinary people building up their own businesses, almost block by block. Foreign Direct Investments by multi national companies will have their roles to play of course, but I hope we see more indigenous companies.' Returning to a 'transformed Dail' in March this year was 'unbelievable' says Seamus. 'I still can't believe how different it is, but that's the nature of democracy, and we are in a new era now.' Fianna Fail are, he insists adopting a 'spiritual approach' and intend to spend this time in opposition to 'recharge.' 'There is a spirituality about the party now, they recognise the need for rebuilding. I think its important for better communication, and in Michael Martin we have not only a very able leader, but a great communicator.' He says that the need to transform Irish politics is linked to electoral reform. 'We probably do need to change the electoral system, in fact I think this is a more urgent need than abolishing the Senate, but I don't see it happening tomorrow.' The death of former Finance Minister, Brian Lenihan only a few weeks ago had a resounding affect on the party, given his running for the Fianna Fail leadership just months beforehand. 'He had been in great spirits well after the election, but that changed in the last six weeks of his life. It was clear that his health wasn't good.' 'Brian was a very affable person, very amiable, and well liked by the people. He will be sorely missed.' Committing himself to running again in the next election, he adds: 'As things stand I intend to run again.' It may be too early for talk of the legacy he will leave behind on Irish politics, but when asked how he would like to be remembered, Seamus Kirk is modest again in his response. 'The people who matter most to me in politics are the electorate. I'd like to be remembered as someone who did some service to the community.' 
