politics
{ Yvonne Galligan 
    May 01 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/women-may-have-won-the-vote-but-few-can-legislate-26046567.html }
WOMEN make up half of the population, but in this  election they make up under one-fifth of candidates. This is  no improvement on the gender profile of candidates in 1997. The desire to see equal numbers of women and men in the Dail echoes the demand of 19th century women for the right to vote. A whole century separates these campaigns, yet little has changed for women in politics. Men continue to dominate the legislature. In the outgoing Dail men hold 145 seats, women a mere 21 (12pc). This puts Ireland 12th place in the EU and 59th place in the world. We may appear to have come a long way since 1927 when women were excluded from jury service. At that time, the idea that women should have a role as citizens outside the home was strongly resisted by the government of the day. In the view of one newspaper editor, women had no desire to be "wrenched from the bosom of their families, from their cherished household duties, from the preparation of their husbands' dinners". Today, over 70 years later, such attitudes are still embedded in political party thinking. Parties hold the view that elected politics is the preserve of men. Party leaders speak fine words about encouraging more women into politics in between elections. When it comes to the crunch, though, they favour men to carry the party banner. Over the last year, selection conventions ratified male candidates with only token nods in the direction of women political hopefuls. Fianna Fail chose 13 women and 93 men. Of all parties, Fianna Fail is the least inclined to select women candidates. But while Fianna Fail is consistently poor at choosing electable women, the Progressive Democrats' record has collapsed. This time around, they are putting forward 5 women and 13 men. PD women now account for 28pc of the party's candidates. In contrast, in 1992 and 1997 the PDs ran almost equal numbers of women and men. The 2002 figures show how all parties fare in gender-balancing their candidate slates. In today's climate this record is nothing short of disgraceful. Fianna Fail has 13 female candidates (12pc), 93 males (88pc); Fine Gael 15 women (18pc), 70 men (82pc); Labour 11 women (24pc), 35 men (76); Progressive Democrats 5 women (28pc), 13 men (72); Sinn Fein 7 women (19pc), 30 men (81pc); Green Party 9 women (38pc), 15 men (62pc) and Socialist Party 2 women (40pc), 3 men (60). Overall, there are 62 women candidates (19pc) compared with 260 men (81pc). In defence of their record, parties will argue that they can't find "suitable women" to run as candidates. They conveniently forget that "suitable" women (and men) learn the business of politics at local level. Women comprise 15pc of local councillors. In other words, parties are not encouraging women into local politics to begin with. The culture that surrounds political activity inhibits women's involvement in politics. The late hours, the "boy's club" atmosphere and the point-scoring turns many women off politics. Parties know this, but don't respond. They do not want to know about childcare needs. They ignore the fact that women join parties to get things done, not to talk about getting things done. They do not value women's different leadership styles. They do not respect the different experiences women bring to everyday issues. The views of voters are clear. In electing two women presidents in succession, voters were saying that the time had come for women to take their equal place in politics with men. At this election, many ordinary people are asking why there are not more women in politics. The answer is because political parties don't particularly want to let women share power with men. It is very worrying that in 10 constituencies voters will not get a chance to vote for a woman candidate from any party with a Dail presence. And in 20 constituencies, almost half the country, FF or FG voters won't get the opportunity of casting a vote for a woman candidate. In excluding women from electoral politics, the interests and experiences of one half of the population is absent from national decision making. The right of women to run for elected office is denied. In many countries, measures are taken to ensure parliaments reflect the composition of the population. Targets are set for the election of women and minority groups. We in Ireland need to have these debates also. No better time than during an election campaign. Dr Yvonne Galligan is director of the Centre for Advancement of Women in Politics at Queen's University, Belfast. 
