politics
{  
    February 18 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/show-me-the-clean-money-26247200.html }
The public funding of politics is a small price to pay for the restoration of confidence in the political process, says Pat  Rabbitte, TD THE low esteem in which politics is now held has turned politicians at Westminster "whey-faced", according to Andrew Marr in The Telegraph. In reality, he says: "The reward-risk ratio in politics is terrible the high chance of being kicked out, the low chance of exercising real power, the very low status, poor pay ... ." It is little different at Leinster House. While the suspicion remains that private money can buy public men (or women), the attrition against the once noble profession of public service will continue. That is the conviction behind the Labour Party Bill to stop corporate funding of politics. The public, as Michael Noonan put it, no longer distinguishes between "dirty money" and "clean money". The subliminal vibe in the media certainly doesn't distinguish between a modest donation at election time and a bribe. No more than it distinguishes between a local authority employee who designs a porch for the mother-in-law and the County Manager at the centre of a corrupt ring. All effort to convey proportionality, such as it is, is lost in the welter of gleeful commentary. Since politicians put the tribunals and other investigations in train and since politicians enacted legislation such as the Freedom of Information Act, why is information elicited through these instruments a cause to denigrate all politicians? The cynicism about politics is corrosive, debilitating for the practitioners and, in the longer term, inimical for society. It is curious that when this country was impoverished and haemorrhaging emigration, politicians were regarded with respect, even deference. Thankfully that day is gone. But now that we have discovered immigration and relative affluence for many of our citizens, politicians are to be sneered at and debased. Now that the Catholic Church, the judiciary, politicians and the Gardaí are under the cosh, surveys tell us that journalists alone stand out as a beacon of light. In some quarters journalists have begun to behave as if they believe it. If all that stands between us and barbarism and corruption are journalists, may the Lord protect our great little country. Of course, just as it is misleading to write about "the politicians", it is misleading to write about "journalists", a generic designation that comprises the good, the mediocre and the indifferent like politicians actually, except typically they work half the hours. Since the modern journalist appears to be so empirically dismissive of the undoubted imperfections of politicians, I know of no impediment disbarring them from the Dáil, except the need to persuade enough of their fellow citizens to vote for them. The manner in which the largest party in the State has responded to the crisis in politics has only deepened cynicism. Fine words are all very well, but when a Bill to allow Fianna Fáil to spend an extra million pounds in the coming general election takes precedence over housing rents and road safety, the public is not fooled. IT is utterly disingenuous for the Government to respond that the limits for the other parties are also being increased the other parties don't want the increases and don't have the money to use them. However in order to compete, if the new limits are enacted, other parties will feel obliged to attempt to utilise their allocations. In the old days the uniform response of the Fianna Fáil voter who wanted to conceal his or her voting preference was "Sure ye're all the same!" Since the Haughey affair first broke, the modern orchestrated version is, "Sure they're all at it!" Well they are not all at it. This is the Fianna Fáil way of protecting their hegemony. Since the sleaze factor has principally involved leading figures in Fianna Fáil, that party would be better concentrating on learning the lessons of the tribunal age rather than trying to spread the muck. One of the main lessons is that the public will continue to believe that private money can purchase political influence for as long as the present dispensation applies. The Government argument that the taxpayer shouldn't be required to pay for politics is disingenuous and populist nonsense. The annual cost of funding politics out of the public purse is estimated at between five and six million pounds an amount that would scarcely buy the goalposts for the Bertiebowl at Abbotstown. The annual cost of the public funding of politics in the future is but a fraction of the cost of the tribunals that are investigating the private funding of politics in the past. The public must make up their minds: either they put up with more of the same or they welcome politics being funded out of the public purse. Of course, consistent opinion poll data would suggest that about one-third of the people are not at all concerned about what has been going on. This one-third seem to believe that Fianna Fáil is a little bit corrupt and they are not especially unhappy with that. It is, after all, the task, nay the responsibility, of the opposition parties to ensure that it doesn't get worse than a little bit. A little bit we can put up with, so long as our crowd are in Government and I'm doing fairly well. If it gets worse than a little bit, then the offender must be sawed off and airbrushed from the party annals. If it were otherwise, as Des O'Malley pointed out in this newspaper last Sunday, several prominent figures would not have been elected and re-elected down the years. The public funding of politics is a small price to pay for the restoration of confidence in the political process. Let the cynics suggest what is the viable alternative. 
