politics
{ Alan Ruddock 
    May 04 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/noonan-fails-to-pack-a-punch-26241045.html }
The Fine  Gael leader needs old-style bruiser politics to transform sympathy into actual voter support, says Alan Ruddock THERE are times when it is impossible to feel anything but sympathy for Michael Noonan, the leader of Fine Gael. Last week, the first full week of the election campaign, should have been the point when his party started to rattle the Government. A few clever stunts, some aggressive interviews, some innovative strategies and maybe some potential voters would have their dull certainties dented. Instead, the highlight of Michael Noonan's week was getting a pie in the face. Much was made of his good humour in the face of a witless assault. No John Prescott-style punch, just a shrug, a smile, a change of clothes and at long last there was something positive to say and write about a man destined for another long spell in the political wilderness. Sympathy, however, does not last for long. If Mr Noonan and Fine Gael end up in opposition again, they will have no one to blame but themselves, because never before could an opposition have been faced with a government so vulnerable to attack, yet fail so miserably to land any significant blows. On one level, Mr Noonan's problems are easy to understand. Take Saturday's Irish Independent. In an analysis of an opinion poll that showed Fianna Fail heading for an overall majority, Chris Glennon wrote: "After five years of a government that delivered higher living standards, tax cuts and hundreds of thousands of jobs ... " No doubts there: all that economic progress, all those jobs, have been delivered by the Government. For opposition parties, it is an unpalatable fact of life that governments can take credit for periods of economic boom even when they have done little to either create or sustain that boom and the casualness with which a newspaper can accept and propagate the myth must drive them to despair. This Fianna Fail/Progressive Democrat Government should have limped, not strutted, into a general election campaign. After five years of plenty, the health system is in shambles, parents are keeping our schools open so that their children can have uninterrupted examinations, our transport system is gridlocked, murder and violent assaults are commonplace and affordable housing is a thing of the past. To top it all, this Government has so frittered away the public finances that the incoming government will not be able to make much difference. The boom years have been wasted, and this Government cares not one jot. Its priority is power and the continuance of power, it venerates style and personality over substance and it has no political purpose. Yet it will be re-elected, no matter how much Mr Noonan huffs and puffs. This is more than puzzling, it is downright perverse. Serial political failure should, on its own, diminish a government's prospects of re-election. When that failure is layered upon a corruption so widespread and so ingrained, it beggars belief that its reward should be even greater public support. Set against the context of this government's "achievements", Mr Noonan's failure to make any political headway as leader of Fine Gael is truly appalling. He hasn't been helped by Ruairi Quinn, the Labour Party leader, whose strategy appeared to be to position his party as a possible partner for Fianna Fail, not Fine Gael, after the election. But it is his own failings that have contributed to a situation whereby Ireland's most corrupt political party is Ireland's most popular political party. Mr Noonan had some credibility, and some appeal, as an unpleasant political bruiser with a hint of passion about his politics. As leader of Fine Gael, we have seen instead a man who appears to have been reprogrammed by focus groups. There have been flashes in the past 10 days of what might have been, as the election teases out a sharper Michael Noonan, but it all far too little, far too late. Perhaps his confidence was shattered by the Hepatitis C scandal, perhaps personal traumas have refocused his priorities, but whatever the reason Mr Noonan has not led his party with passion and focus. He has failed to make this Government synonymous with failure in the eyes of the public, and he has failed to present Mr Ahern as a symbol of political corruption, the natural heir of Charles Haughey's discredited regime. While Mr Noonan tours the country trying to make up in two weeks the failure of his party's five years in opposition, and his own wasted time as leader, Fianna Fail will send 100,000 activists into the field, spreading the message that ... what? Corruption is all right? Failed public services are all right? That nothing really matters if you can jangle some change in your pocket? That Bertie's a decent skin? It is hardly a message that will send passions soaring, but then Fianna Fail needs only to keep a lid on things for a few more days and the election will be all but over. And who can blame the party or its strategists? The onus for debate, for ideology, for ideas has to fall on the men and women who seek to oust the Government, and they have all come up empty. Irish politics has become a peculiarly bloodless affair, marked by consensus rather than competing visions. With the exception of Sinn Fein in a few constituencies, there is no threat from the extremes, no far right or far left parties to startle the voters and inject passion. Millions march in France, but what would make the Irish take to the streets other than a quarterfinal victory in Japan? So as Mr Noonan wears out the shoe leather, it is possible to feel some sympathy for the man. His failure, and his almost inevitable political demise after the election, may be of his own making, but he is also fighting against an electoral complacency that is difficult to fathom. We apparently care little for honesty or integrity in our political leaders and we do not expect much performance either, so long as the economy is ticking along nicely. Instead of being outraged by tribunals, we are bored by them and moan about the costs rather than the revelations. We are apparently satisfied by promises of more spending on health, or education, or transport, but never wonder why the money that is being spent delivers so little. Michael Noonan preaches quality of life, but like his counterparts in the rest of the political system, he ducks the central issues that force underperformance on the Irish public sector. Foremost among them is the failure of this Government, and previous governments, to tackle the vested interests that prevent taxpayers from getting value for money (it's ok to kick soft targets like taxi drivers and pharmacists, but not consultants, or teachers, or transport workers). All tough decisions are diverted to task forces or committees of some description: bland consensus is the modern Irish ideal, and no one personifies that spirit more than Bertie Ahern. He is, truly, the man of our age and there is nothing that Michael Noonan can do about it now. But two weeks of old-style bruiser politics would be a healthy start, and might encourage some sympathy to harden into actual support. 
