politics
{  
    May 22 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/woman/celeb-news/just-a-political-gun-for-hire-26259454.html }
GEORGE Stephanopoulos's All Too Human: A Political Education (Hutchinson: £17.99) represents the tip-head of the anticipated avalanche of instant-books following on the conclusion of the impeachment trial of President Clinton. Let's hope that at least a few of those to follow are more worth bothering with. If Monica's story was kiss-and-tell (so to speak), this offering by the president's former ``senior adviser on policy and strategy'' is brown-nose and tell. The author relates one instance after another of his fawning, pandering, and (to use his own phraseology) giving the ``full suck up,'' mostly but not exclusively to Clinton. This is a self-portrait of a weak man, whose moods and convictions seem to be wholly dependent on public opinion, on what the polls say will sell with the American electorate. He begins the book with a dream he claims to have had involving Clinton. It struck me as transparently bogus which suitably sets the tone for what follows. ``How could,'' the author laments in connection with the Lewinsky affair, ``a president so intelligent ... act in such a stupid, selfish, and self-destructive manner?'' I have a revelation for the guy: it was sex, stupid! Nothing about the affair itself was difficult to understand. What was, and remains, impossible to believe even now when it has all passed before our eyes was the attempt by the Republicans to drive a president from office over his private behaviour. Instead, however, of this simple recognition, the author buys into the mindless pap about all of it constituting a ``tragedy'' for the Clinton presidency. This is soap opera masquerading as political analysis and speaks volumes about the job the guy left the White House for. You guessed it providing ``political analysis'' for one of the American television networks. And here, let us recall, that he was the first such pundit to describe the rumours concerning the president and Lewinsky as serious enough to warrant impeachment, if proven true. Some friend. All of this ought not to be too surprising. The author is, after all, a political gun-for-hire that relatively new breed of political strategists who hire out their expertise at reading the tea-leaves of electoral success to whoever will have them, regardless of party, regardless of policies. To give him due credit, Stephanopoulos repeatedly claims various core political values. But little enough of this comes through in his detailed descriptions of political or legislative campaigns. Here it is all political process as process. With one exception, he never describes the substance of any of the many pieces of legislation he dealt with. The sole exception concerns affirmative action but, even here, what the author relishes is the procedural battle, the manoeuvrings and the out-wittings and the high-fives with which victory was gleefully celebrated. Worse is the author's determination to lace each account of his political battles with high doses of maudlin self-pity about his burdens and doubts and the stress of it all. This is a shame because the guy actually does have a finely tuned political antenna. He describes, for instance, Ross Perot as ``the weird little man who was a ventriloquist's dummy for voter anger,'' and the infamous Dick Morris as having the look of ``a B-movie mob lawyer.'' He is open about his enjoyment of political celebrity (and what being so well known would do for his career), and his frequent depictions of the genuine affection between Clinton and his wife conveys the reality of their marriage and a welcome relief from all the petty-minded and mean-spirited ``analysis'' which the media pundits seem to so delight in. Perhaps his most telling contribution, though, is his conclusion that the Republicans were determined to get Clinton not just because he consistently out-manoeuvred them legislatively but because his term in office promised a return to that era, begun by FDR, of a Democratic dominance of the presidency which faded with John Kennedy's assassination and Lyndon Johnson's descent into the quagmire of Vietnam. CURRENTLY, in addition to his television chores, Stephanopoulos is an adjunct professor at Columbia University where, he mentions, he is teaching a course on the presidency. It could be a very good course. Certainly, his astute political antenna also picked up the solitary realities of the job. In speaking of the unity so often demonstrated by the small group of men who, at any given time, have served as president, he writes, ``what unites them, ultimately, (is that) only they know what it's like to be president ... to sacrifice privacy in return for power ... to sit alone in the Oval Office late at night and contemplate the imperfect choices that are the stuff of history.'' Let us hope that, in his role as teacher of the young, he avoids the self-puffery, the self-pity, and the vengeful self-interest which have distressingly animated this book.  George Dempsey 
