politics
{ Maurice Hayes 
    January 18 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/why-its-time-for-sf-to-grow-up-and-face-political-reality-26004401.html }
IN THE current search for roots, some people might be interested to know that James Joyce supported the Arthur Griffith version of Sinn Fein but not "the old pap of racial intolerance." Oddly too, in Ulysses Stephen refers to the archpriests of Sinn Fein coming with a naggin of hemlock. Hemlock indeed is what most of the other parties would seem to want Sinn Fein to take large draughts of. As if that would cure the present ills of the body politic in the North. Sinn Fein continues to deny IRA responsibility for the Northern Bank raid, almost every other party remains convinced that they did it. The questions that arise from the political fallout are whether this was officially sanctioned and whether the political leadership knew. If they knew, they are branded as duplicitous. If it was IRA and they did not know, they are seen as not being in control of the situation, and the political process at the mercy of the militants. In either case, not very good partners in a lasting agreement. Politically, while all this might do some damage to Sinn Fein in the South, in the North, where an election is pending, it will do them very little harm. In a straight past the post election, they are likely to gain at least one seat. Whether they take more depends on the SDLP which is in a poor state of morale, divided on whether or not to go it alone, and appearing to want to disown the legacy of John Hume. Hume at least will find justification in that what is being taken now is paper money and not human lives. Sinn Fein, for their part will regard a good election result as having strengthened their mandate. But a mandate for what? A mandate is not a blank cheque : certainly not for bank robbery, for intimidation, vigilantism and terror. The growth of support for Sinn Fein can be explained in part as an encouragement to them to pursue a peaceful solution and the full completion of the Good Friday Agreement. What an increased mandate would give Sinn Fein is the opportunity to rely on that alone and to divest itself from any possible connection with arms or criminality. Martin McGuinness has said the bank raid was a crime. Gerry Adams has declared criminality to be incompatible with republicanism. In a recent case of murder and rape, which he denounced as a crime, Mr McGuinness called on those having information to give it to some responsible person. If he were to do the same in relation to the bank robbery he would at least be making his position clear. Crime would not cease were the IRA to pack it in, and it would be unreasonable to hold Sinn Fein, or any other political party responsible for all crime in the areas they represent. What is important is that there should be no linkage, hidden or overt, in organisation or personnel to any group purporting to operate as a normal political party, and it is up to any party claiming to rely on its democratic credentials to make this abundantly clear. If there are indeed republicans intrinsically linked to criminality, it is time for Sinn Fein to decouple and disown, to rely on its political support and to make manifest its support for policing and the rule of law in dealing with criminals who threaten the stability of the state and the political process. That SDLP wish to broaden the debate beyond Sinn Fein and the DUP is all to the good, as would engagement with DUP, but it is unlikely to go further. Recent history shows that exclusion does not work. Stormont fell because Catholics withdrew consent. Sunningdale fell because a majority of unionists refused that form of rule. To imagine that an arrangement which excludes the elected representatives of 60pc of nationalists requires a leap of faith of heroic proportions. The Sinn Fein leadership has invested too much in the process over the years to let it all go now. The British and Irish governments have made an investment of political capital in both. To suggest that if politics is not seen to work the position will worsen should not be taken as a muted declaration of the possibility of a return to war, but a recognition of reality. Politics must be seen to be the way forward if Northern Ireland politics is not to relapse into the dreary cyclical pattern of failure and disillusion leading, in time, to further violence. This places an onus on all the parties, and on none more than Sinn Fein. 
