politics
{  
    February 28 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/editorial/weekend-of-hypocrisy-from-sinn-feins-brand-of-politics-26018665.html }
SINN Fein and the IRA are having their annual shared conference this weekend and will be indulging in the usual hypocrisy of discussing their democratic mandate. This mandate is not normally the subject of comment by other political parties. They do not need to state the obvious. They share a common bond with elected representatives from the Left, the Right and the Centre. What distinguishes Sinn Fein and the IRA is that they get to be part of the political process North and South, while at the same time running an illegal army in both parts of Ireland. It is not all that they do. The shared membership among its supporters between the two sides of the organisation, Sinn Fein and the IRA, is part of the hypocrisy, and brings the "Army" into the council chambers of the "party" and vice versa. The holding of arms in secret locations throughout this island is another distinguishing feature. The use of brutal punishments, particularly in Northern Ireland, but in the Republic as well, is another part of what makes the combination unique. It is glaringly so, and repulsively so, and will remain that way. It is why we have a crisis now, affecting all the parties, and why we are likely to go on having that crisis, despite the widespread condemnation of the double standard from all parties, both here and in the United Kingdom. This political approach is unique in Ireland today. It is not unique as a political approach, historically. The National Socialist Party in Germany in the 1930s followed a similar pattern, as did other fascist groups. They were politically successful with their violent methods. They rampaged to power, brutalised the countries where they exercised that power, and ended up subjecting the populations over which they had sway to some of the worst crimes of the 20th century. Within Ireland the people North and South are voting for this hypocritical mixture and have increased the mandate enjoyed by that partnership of political party and private army steadily. Among all leaders in the Republic, Gerry Adams has the highest rating of public approval. The dual organisation he runs will continue to make political gains, and he and those sharing his platform this weekend will brazen out the hypocrisy charged against them by politicians on all sides. It has been a crisis within our democracy, and has been so for the past five years and more. It was allowed to become so because, in both parts of Ireland, a compromise was made in respect of the violent side of militant republicanism in order to persuade the organisation to "come in from the cold" as it were, and join the kind of politics pursued by other parties. They have resolutely failed to respond to this offer. The compromise was arguably justified in the early stages but is not justified any longer. It has become too high a price to pay for a peace that never materialised. And this has led to the whole political system being destabilised , not by the compromise allowed to Sinn Fein-IRA, but by the compromise in which all politicians, whether in the United Kingdom or the Republic, are part of. We brought it in. We cannot get rid of it. The democratic crisis has led to a level of virulent condemnation of Sinn Fein-IRA that is welcome where it is genuine. But it is not altogether clear how far this goes, and how far it is motivated by political opportunism, leaving aside the question of legal obligations by people who still use arms and violence for political power. Instead of Ireland moving forward into the peaceful reconstruction of democratic self-government in the North and an evenly balanced political competition for European seats everywhere, we are instead engaged in a strategy of isolating and diminishing the appeal of Sinn Fein. Many would say too little too late. Many more would question whether or not it will work. The talks in the North are effectively stalled for the foreseeable future. The consideration of a number of issues will of course go forward. These include voting procedures, the passage of legislation and how it can be improved, discussions about the Three Strands - Northern Ireland, North-South and East-West -will continue. The DUP will stay in these talks and will ignore David Trimble's advice that unionists should pull out. It is in Ian Paisley's interest to go through the processes, come forward with positive ideas and proposals, putting the issue of Sinn Fein on the shelf until the inevitable point where it has to be confronted, which lies well on into the year, arguably in the autumn. By so doing, the party reinforces its electoral position in advance of the European election in Northern Ireland. This will be frustrating for Sinn Fein and the IRA. They are already confronted by the charges of lying and hypocrisy. These are directed at them on all sides, but Sinn Fein, without the restoration of the Executive and their own position within it, cannot fight these charges in any meaningful way. Nor can they create an effective electoral strategy against such attacks. This is not to say that their vote will decline. They have created a powerful mandate machine. It may be hypocritical in all its propaganda, but it does work on the ground, and this fact is concentrating the minds of all the other parties. A further potential blow is likely to land upon them if and when the Monitoring Body reports. Their report, which is expected to be timed for May when it will have maximum impact, is also expected to find against an organisation that has so blatantly sustained an illegal and violent alternative in Northern Ireland to the PSNI, which it refuses to acknowledge and support. In practice, if the Assembly is in abeyance, there will be no scope for using the Report to "punish" Sinn Fein. But the theory is that the findings, if, as expected, they condemn the continued existence of the IRA as well as its practices, will be expected to lessen the electoral impact of Sinn Fein in those summer elections. It should be a healthy development for the parties pursuing exclusively democratic objectives and methods. But the lessons that Sinn Fein have taught the other parties, both here and in the North, are sombre ones. The party works as an organisation, and works with both skill and energy. It appeals to voters. It is winning seats. It has been formidably successful in Northern Ireland and it is frightening political parties here in the South. It has the appeal to its followers of being a "movement", not just a party. Other parties need to take note and find answers to that. The global strategy, affecting Northern Ireland talks, monitoring, PSNI actions against criminal gangs and murder squads, will not be sufficient to diminish electoral support. It requires more action on the ground, more action locally, a more sophisticated rationale for combating this quasi-fascist organisation that is so often, and so threateningly, a stranger to truth. 
