politics
{  
    August 20 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/sf-uncertainty-creates-perfect-void-for-sinister-real-ira-revival-26370608.html }
THERE is an unfortunate sense of deja vu in the reports of burning warehouses in Newry, burning stores in Dungannon, the attempted bombing of Lord Haughey's new house in north Louth and the disruption of North/South rail links and road traffic in and round Newry. All have been attributed to the Real IRA, which might well be taken as a good sign by those who require reassurance that the Provisional IRA is holding to the declaration a year ago to desist from violence. The reality could be more worrying. The apparent rise of the Real IRA in those areas where the appeal of the political direction being taken by the leadership of Sinn Fein was weakest, and the apparent impunity with which they can raise the tempo, should concern the police on both sides of the border and the political establishments. For one thing, it suggests the Real IRA, although currently small, is regrouping and attracting recruits. These may be young firebrands (in every sense of the term) and, most likely, disenchanted former Provisionals. The fact that the attacks came apparently out of the blue suggests the Real IRA, which at one stage had been penetrated by Garda intelligence to the extent that main players were taken out of circulation and many planned attacks frustrated, have succeeded in tightening up the organisation and making it more impermeable to penetration. The Real IRA activity may, or may not, be the forerunner to a sustained campaign. The signs are probably otherwise. But what it does demonstrate in the areas where it is now strong is a parallel weakening of the control formerly exercised by the IRA and of the influence of Sinn Fein. At the beginning of the year, there was graffiti on a roadside trailer near the border denouncing Gerry Adams and calling for his removal. The wonder at the time was that some republicans had the temerity to put it there in the first place, and that it was allowed to remain for so long. It should come, therefore, as no surprise that this area should emerge as the epicentre of the Real IRA activity and of opposition to the political direction of Sinn Fein. Apart from being a show of strength, or an attack on the burgeoning prosperity of Newry, or a matter of finding work for idle hands, the political purpose of the attacks is clearly to queer the pitch for Sinn Fein ahead of the resumption of political talks at the end of the month. The firebombs and the threats are a clear attempt to heighten tension and to incubate unionist fears and phobias. The purpose is to ensure there is no political progress. The campaign will therefore play to that element in the DUP which will not be prepared to sit down with Sinn Fein until every last trace of criminality has been eradicated from Republican areas. There is a growing belief in the nationalist community (and not only among Sinn Fein supporters) that this element in unionism does not wish to share power, will never envisage a situation where they recognise the electoral strength of Sinn Fein, and will keep discovering new tests for them to fail. Some republicans will look at the year since the IRA statement and ask what has been gained as a result. The purpose of the decision then announced was to open the way to democratic politics and Sinn Fein participation in a restored executive. Since then, there has been no discernible political movement. The DUP still refuses to consider Sinn Fein as partners in a dialogue - never mind as colleagues in government. The parties are not talking to each other. The rhetoric of the DUP has become more strident, and few people - apart from the governments - believe a resolution leading to the restoration of the institutions is likely to be achieved before November 24. A failure to achieve political participation and the social stability that would result will not only prolong the interregnum, but will severely weaken the present Sinn Fein leadership which has brought the major part of the republican movement so far along the road to politics and away from armed struggle. The lack of a visible end-product will severely damage their credibility and their ability to influence behaviour in the areas they represent. The Real IRA campaign carries the stark warning that, for some republicans, there is still an alternative to politics. The challenge for all the political parties is to ensure politics remains the first, indeed the only choice, and can be effective. That the Real IRA can sustain activity at this level indicates the vacuum in policing which only Sinn Fein can fill, and the resultant ability of those who wish to prevent political progress to act outside the law. The lessons that might be drawn are, for the unionists, to engage seriously with Sinn Fein in political discussions; and for Sinn Fein, to sort themselves out on policing. 
