politics
{  
    October 28 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/mcdowell-jettisons-a-pd-lifeboat-strategy-and-sets-out-radical-stall-26257039.html }
Jody Corcoran, Political Editor, exclusively reveals the Attorney-General's new plan for his old party. FIRST of all, an irony. Michael McDowell's grand plan for the future of the Progressive Democrats may have emerged a little earlier, but for the O'Flaherty affair. In a letter to PD leader, Mary Harney, on July 10 last, Mr McDowell said: ``I attach without any amendment the text of the Where Now? document on which I was working in May. I stopped work on it when the O'Flaherty affair blew up.'' When you consider the damage that particular debacle inflicted on the party the current Attorney-General wants to be president of, you have to chuckle. But there's little else in Mr McDowell's correspondence for the PDs to smile about. Oh, all right, the bit about winning the environment issue back from ``tree-huggers'' was amusing. Mr McDowell wants to be radical or redundant. Get this for radical: ``We need to demonstrate a capacity to deal with the North in a new way which really tries to progress the project of Irish unity in the new, post Good Friday, prosperous context that exists. Young people want Irish unity.'' Here's essentially what the A-G wrote: ``Events since May first made me hesitate. However, I have since become more and more convinced that there is both an appetite and an opportunity for a fresh initiative in Irish politics and that the PDs will be swept aside in the wake of political change if they miss this particular boat. ``What I referred to as the Lifeboat Strategy is not viable. Even if a very good opportunity to exit Government onto the moral high ground were to present itself, the people will make their decision in the next election on the basis of their future needs and not... past achievements. The next election will not be about awarding medals ... Posthumous awards are of little political significance. ``Now is the time to anticipate the next wave in Irish politics and to harness the energy and the novelty of the next new wave to the philosophy and values that brought the PDs into existence. When you think about it, we got 12 per cent support in the 1987 election and we stood at 11 per cent after the rather insubstantial New Deal conference in Bunratty in 1996. I feel that the electoral support of voters has become highly mobile and volatile. The MacEochaidh idea seems to be based on a similar perception.'' [Colm MacEochaidh, a barrister, is one of two men who offered a £10,000 reward which subsequently led to the establishment of the Flood tribunal. He is now proposing to found a new political party.] ``We now have the opportunity to take our courage in our hands, start afresh and offer the people a credible political choice. We would not be starting from scratch. We have credibility in terms of integrity and proven capacity the very qualities that Des had going for him in 1985. ``What is needed now is a sense of vision. We need to sustain economic success but at the same time meet challenges in the areas of quality of life and social fairness. We need to demonstrate a capacity to channel growth into planned infrastructural development. We need to connect with younger voters. We need to demonstrate a capacity to deal with the North in a new way which really tries to progress the project of Irish unity in the new, post-Good Friday, prosperous context that exists. Young people want Irish unity. ``We need as well to take a different tack on Europe. There is scope for an Irish party that is clearly for a confederation-type EU rather than a federal superstate. ``The environment issue can be won back from tree-huggers by radical, well thought-out policies. The process of economic liberalisation and de-regulation has only started. ``I am particularly concerned about creating the political movement that is attractive to younger voters. I believe that everything about a transformed party should appear to be radical, straight-forward and commonsense. I very strongly believe that all of what we have stood for in the past can be summed up in the word Republican. Our value, however, really does come down to the old catch phrase I used in Cork in 1988 we have the choice of being radical or being redundant. ``It seems to me that it is absolutely essential that a newly relaunched party should contest the next election on an independent basis and that it should have no alliance, express or implied, with Fianna Fáil or the Rainbow group. ``Last Tuesday I set out as best I could (bearing in mind the scepticism of some) the elements of what is now needed. ``I have to emphasise that what I am suggesting corresponds to my own judgement of the minimum that will suffice in present circumstances. It wasn't, and isn't, a shopping list of proposals put forward in the expectation that only half of it would be realised. On the contrary it is my deeply-held conviction that all of this is needed. As I indicated, I do not believe that circumstances permit any member of the Parliamentary Party to perform the role of transformation that I have described. `` ... Your own jobs are all full-time jobs. As Tánaiste and as an economic Minister there is simply no reality in asking you to rebuild the Party. Additionally there would be a huge conflict between the need to create political expectations in reviving the Party while at the same time damping them down to coexist as the minority party in the Coalition. It is for that reason I have suggested a Party President who would in effect be the chief executive of the Party organisation. ``In order to give that position some credibility and status, the rules of the Party would have to be changed. Your role as Leader of the Parliamentary Party and Tánaiste is to be in charge of the Party at Oireachtas and Government levels and to take responsibility for the implementation of the Party's Government mandate. ``I have no doubt at all that the great majority of voters want you to stay at the table and play out your hand. In addition, the reorganisation which I am proposing needs as much time as possible, preferably the entirety of 2001, after the relaunch in November next. `` ... I am convinced that the Party must be relabelled and remodelled. The idea that hordes of young people are going to join a party that appears marginal and that has a fair amount of negative baggage of one type or another is a forlorn hope. Likewise, I have indicated to you that I believe that the Party must be organised nationally. It would be my aim to set up a party presence in every Dáil constituency and to contest as many constituencies as possible. This does not mean that the national resources of the Party should be spread across all these constituencies equally, no matter what the electoral odds. ``I am particularly clear that the relaunched renamed party must reach out to every part of the country and as long as it does not do so, opinion poll support (which colours public perception on credibility) will remain very low ... ``As regards timing, matters have moved on since May. However, the viability of the whole idea remains crucially dependent on a rapid implementation programme. Otherwise events may well overtake us.'' [Mr McDowell then sets out a timetable, before continuing] ``The foregoing is designed to lead in to a properly prepared and structured relaunch National Conference in November in Cork. ``A publicity strategy (including a `non-publicity' strategy) will have to be carefully worked out. ``I hope that in this letter and accompanying documents I have clearly explained my proposals. I realise that some people may think that ... changes such as those proposed are too dramatic. My view is that there simply must be a demonstrable new beginning and that a gradualist, incrementalist approach would wither on the political vine. ``I believe these proposals would enjoy strong support from the overwhelming majority of members, former members and supporters of the party. More important still, I belive they would have the strong support of a significant section of the public which is looking for a new political beginning.'' Here's essentially what What Now? said: ``The Progressive Democrats are, in present circumstances, at best marginally viable and, at worst, in a slow descent into oblivion. To an outsider, the party seems to be ticking over as a shell; branches, constituency councils, and other organs are meeting very, very infrequently, if at all. National opinion poll support seems to be stuck in a groove between 3 and 5 per cent. The likelihood of new blood in the form of new candidates and members is very low. The outcome of an election is at best very problematic. ``Two strategy options are open: * The Lifeboat Strategy: To carry on in the hope that something will turn up probably in the form of a post-election small part in government, or a post-election political realignment which might offer a lifeline to the small number of TDs who are reelected; or * The Radical Strategy: To adopt a rebirth strategy now while in government and to avail of the next six months to put in place a political option which is new, capable of growth, and is likely to capture the mood of the moment in the next election and capturing at least 10-15 seats. ``This paper is concerned with the second option. ``The tribunal-related flood of scandal adds to the potential demand for a new political initiative. The public is likely to look for a new beginning. If things go on as they are, that support may well go to the Greens among middle-classes and Sinn Féin among working classes, and to Independentsand regional candidates across all classes. ``Nonetheless, voters are concerned with safeguarding the new prosperity; they need competent, reliable, market-oriented politics. SF and the Greens don't offer that. Independents and regional candidates can't promise stability and continuity. ``There is a big gap in the market for economically liberal, competent and honest politics, with a `can do' image, and driven by a sense of purpose. ``As Tony O'Reilly asked: `There may be a gap in the market, but is there a market in the gap?''' ``This paper is concerned with answering that question ... by a plan. THE PLAN ``The basic plan is to build a new and attractive political force using the PD building blocks ... The new force would look outside the PDs as well. ``Starting in June 2000, the PDs would adopt a set of rules to create the opportunity for a rebirth at a National Conference/Launch Meeting in Cork in November. Those rules would allow for a transformation process to take place between now and the next general election. ``Central to the short-term strategy would be a commitment to deliver on the ... Programme for Government. Unless some unforeseen circumstance intervenes, voters want the Government to stay for the rest of its natural term. The new rebirth process has to take place separate from, and parallel to, the Dáil agenda. The PD parliamentarians would `play out their existing hand' while at the same time assisting in the process of building the new force for the next election. ``One of the elements of the new force is a new label to be adopted in Cork ... The new name has to be catchy and punchy. ... it is suggested that a single, strong word be adopted. The name `Radical Party' is suggested. It connotes change, strength, thoroughness, youth, vision, vigour, rigour and vitality. It is a label which attracts youth and reformers. It suggests a strong agenda. ``Another new element is the notion of political flexibility. Local and regional politics demand the capacity to set up alliance of sister parties to contest elections. For instance, the Radical Party could have as a sister party in Dublin city and county a Dublin First party with membership overlap and the potential for different memberships. The same could apply to other regions. ``Flexibility could also include Euro-constituency parties. Pat Cox could have a Munster Euro-party with common membership with the Radical Party in that region. Marian Harkin could organise a political movement in Connacht-Ulster and combine with the Radical Party to fight a Dáil seat. Separate local sister parties could organise at the same time in Galway and Sligo to fight the local elections, and combine, say, for BMW regional purposes. ``By introducing a new, variable geometry to Irish politics, the Radical Party could be the anchor-point for a much broader base. One of the features of the existing larger parties is the extent to which they have become a political franchise operated locally by independent organisations and figures. By concentrating the efforts of the Radical Party as a franchise for general elections and creating flexibility for Euro, local and regional politics, a new set of opportunities could be created. ``In order to create the new wave, there has to be a break with the past. The PD label is dated and carries a lot of negative baggage of economic elitism, FF factionalism, niche ambitions, revisionism and smallness. ``On the positive side, its image is liberal, honest and straightforward and as having had many of its good ideas stolen.'' 
