politics
{ Emer O'Kelly 
    May 03 2014 09:22 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/our-councillors-are-not-our-fixers-despite-the-self-serving-posturing-30242179.html }
A number of years ago, shortly after I bought my house, there was a minor issue in the area concerning street lighting. It got sorted fairly quickly and efficiently. And shortly after that, I received, as I presume everyone in the area received, communications from every local councillor from all parties represented on the city council, each of them claiming personal, total, and sole credit for "intervening" and "achieving" the result. It was an interesting insight into the way local politics operate. I am prepared to accept that local councillors in small towns and rural areas may indeed have some power. In the cities they have none; that is why, presumably, local politics in cities are such a dog-eat-dog operation. It is the paid executive, the city managers and their heads of department who make the decisions as to what work is carried out and when it is carried out. Local councillors may well write letters and then clog up the mails by writing to residents enclosing copies of the letters they have sent to the paid executive. But it's a dance of death, and achieves nothing. I was once told by a fairly high-level employee of a city council that when they get such letters from councillors, they are likely to put the issue at the bottom of the pile for attention, they find them so irritating. And they find them irritating because they know, and know the councillors know, that the letters are merely a box-ticking exercise for the next election. This ridiculous waste of time (and money), with the accompanying self-serving posturing, is actually not entirely the fault of the councillors themselves. We, the electors, buy into it every time we make contact with a local councillor (or indeed a TD, when double-office holding was allowed). It is a perpetuation of the clientelism that has bedevilled our society since independence. We are encouraged to believe that the individual citizen has no power, and that getting his or her rights is at the whim of the political system. The system was introduced at national and local level at the time of independence because an enormously high percentage of the population was illiterate, hence the title TD (Teachta Dala): "messenger" to the Dail, not legislator. The origin of poster blight at election time stems from the same patriarchal structure: pictures were to show the electors what the candidates looked like because they would not be able to read a manifesto. And we continue to buy into this demeaning and insulting system. When any of the myriad local issues of concern arise, application is made to the councillors, who are only too glad to give the impression that they are the "fixers". It almost never occurs to people to apply directly to the city manager's office, stating the concern in question, asking for information on the progress being made in solving it, and pointing out that the council is failing in its statutory duty when it does not resolve the issue. The mention of possible legal action, should the issue be serious, would be far more effective than meaningless letters from councillors, all of whom are looking over their shoulders at their rivals ... including their rivals in their own parties. Very few men and women standing at local election time have the slightest interest in local politics: their eyes are fixed on the Dail, and they regard the local council as the grooming chamber for national politics. It is entirely understandable, then, that we have such a low level of ability at national politics; potholes, hedges, graffiti, slurry pits, and nursing their own backyards remain the focus of supposed parliamentarians who have served their time at local level, with frequently dismaying results. The reality is that the kind of person who makes a good local councillor thinks small, and is entirely unsuitable for national office. Equally, the kind of person who makes a good legislator (the kind of person we should be encouraging to enter the political arena: it's called statesmanship) would not merely resent the pettifogging of local politics, but would also resent having to engage in it. You do get the odd local councillor who will admit (only in private, of course) that they are utterly powerless, and that the endless letter writing and point-scoring is futile. But, they add, it keeps electors "happy". And of course, as long as the electors are fooled by the posturing, it will continue. If it happens that an issue does get sorted immediately, following the promised "intervention" of a councillor, the odds are that it was scheduled for resolution in any case. And, of course, on top of all the posturing, the electorate is faced with a slew of faces pretending to be our long-time best friends. A week ago, a candidate's minder knocked on my door. I took the flyer pleasantly enough, when he said (as the candidate came galloping across the street), "Of course, you'll have met him loads of times". I started to laugh: no, I said, never. Candidate offered his hand, minder said, "This woman is laughing at the thought she has met you." "I've been a councillor for three years," candidate said indignantly. I didn't feel like telling polite lies, and replied truthfully: "And this is the first time I've even heard your name." End of conversation. Another candidate, who seemed to have difficulty understanding English, continued to try to engage me in conversation when I said (again, politely) that I didn't have the time or inclination to listen to an election spiel. "But I want to explain why I'm standing," she kept repeating. If they're Opposition candidates, they want to tell you that they personally will fix the country's finances, and solve every local issue the day following the election. If they're from the Government parties, they want to tell you that they personally have fixed the country's finances ... and will solve every local issue the day following the election. We have additional clientelist problems of recent years: when the scandal of men and women holding local council as well as Dail seats was ended, nothing happened that would differentiate local politics from Dail politics, despite the sanctimonious promises. The anti-democratic political dynasties became enforced: sons and brothers, daughters and sisters, aged grannies; out they came from the woodwork, settling their bums on the still warm seats vacated by their elders. And what all of them will actually do, if elected, is pocket a huge allowance of taxpayers' money. I know of at least one local councillor (no longer in politics) who lived very comfortably on her "allowances" without having to have any gainful employment. And they will, of course, continue to write those letters. If we swallow the posturing. Sunday Independent 
