politics
{  
    January 08 2011 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/reform-sick-seanad-dont-make-it-a-sacrificial-lamb-26612221.html }
If there is one thing I'd like abolished immediately it is any talk of getting rid of the Seanad. The Standards in Public Office Commission should be charged with giving on the spot fines to any politician who even mentions the notion between now and the general election. Listening to all the "debate" on the issue I can only compare it to a major fire raging in your house and pausing to have a chat with the neighbours over whether you should try and put in a dramatic effort to save the conservatory. We need the Seanad -- not in its current form, but greatly reformed. However, what we don't need is Fianna Fail, Fine Gael and Labour being allowed the political sop of closing it down to shut off the other far more pertinent discussions on political reform that we should be having. Conversely, on a political level, I'd like to see a lot more of Ivan Yates, well at least more Ivan Yates-like behaviour. For almost 20 years now we've had to rely on the apology from Ben Dunne, delivered after his 1992 trip to Florida involving cocaine and a call girl, as the best example of how to say sorry publicly and move on. Yates, possibly one of the better political leaders we never had, gave a master class this week on how to handle a horrible situation and come out of it looking like you had done your best, and were not thinking of yourself when there were lots of loyal employees about to lose their jobs. I'm not comparing snorting coke and soliciting a prostitute with your business going bust in a recession, just the manner in which both men dealt with the fallout of their respective situations. Ivan's tale has a particular resonance given that if he hadn't decided to give up politics for business almost 10 years ago there is a distinct possibility that he could have been our current Fine Gael Taoiseach in waiting. He's talented and bright, although also somewhat brash with a very healthy ego, and I've often thought him a bit of a caveman when it comes to gender issues. He is a definite loss to politics at present, if not as Taoiseach, then as a member of the next cabinet. He may have sought out some PR advice ahead of his announcing that his business empire had collapsed but at least he listened to it. It's well rehearsed how the Government spend millions on political advisers and PR advice, but you wouldn't often notice the investment in practice. Ivan says that his "mojo" is in no shape at the moment to be considering a return to politics but this is someone who would make an excellent member of a -- reformed -- Seanad once the next Government is formed. His telling it as it is this week was such a contrast to the nonsense we've been listening to concerning a referendum on the abolition of the Seanad. Fianna Failers, who haven't had much chance for a laugh recently, must have been sniggering up their sleeves at how they have managed to manipulate the national debate on our Upper House. Defence Minister Tony Killeen threw out the notion on Sunday of a referendum abolishing the Seanad on the same day as the General Election and my, how we (media and public) fell for it. Apart at all from the possibility that this totally daft proposal could lengthen the lifetime of the current Dail through the need for detailed legislation, it has proved to be a magnificent distraction from more pertinent issues. It's well over a year since Fine Gael leader Enda Kenny said he would abolish the Seanad. The proposal was as populistic then as it is now. It took Labour and Fianna Fail a while to jump on the bandwagon but they are now firmly on board. They recognise it as a sure-fire crowd pleaser. The idea was one of those contained in Labour's political reform document published this week. Now all sides are attempting to cynically use the idea to make like they are serious about political reform. Our Seanad is definitely a very sick institution and in chronic need of reform. At either end it's a launching pad and retirement home for political careers: in between it's a puffed up and costly talking shop. There are times, although too few and far between, and recent examples are hard to find, where it has proved, if not quite it's worth, then a glimpse of how good it could be. For what it's worth, I believe that a properly functioning upper house is something we actually need. Who could argue against Irish TDs needing oversight? Properly reformed, including its electoral and expenses system, the Seanad could more than prove itself. But it looks like it is set to be a sacrificial lamb. For years to come politicians will have it to point to in a "we-abolished-the-Seanad-what- more-do-you-want" kind of way. The fundamental question about the strength of our parliament and how it is able to hold our Government to account -- very weakly at present -- is the main one that needs attention. Others include the hours the Dail sits; the appalling gender imbalance in national politics; how we elect our politicians; how much time they spend divided between local and national issues; the role of Dail committees; transparency in government and how our public service operates. Instead, we're having a false argument about getting rid of the Seanad, a move that might temporarily satisy an electorate demanding political heads, but in the longer term simply allows a lot of the other things that are rotten in our body politic to remain. Irish Independent 
