politics
{  
    March 12 2011 04:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/top-lawyer-a-political-animal-who-is-virtually-unknown-to-some-peers-26712670.html }
IN appointing a backroom star of the party as Attorney General, Labour has left itself open to the accusation that it has engaged in an act of political cronyism that not even Fianna Fail could trump. Earlier this week Senior Counsel Maire Whelan, who transformed the Labour Party's finances as its national treasurer -- reputably working up to 40 hours a week for the party -- made legal history when she became the first woman to be appointed Attorney General. Whelan, a married mother of one, has broken the mould and not just because she is the first female to become chief legal adviser to the State. Her appointment has also revived a series of age-old disputes about the complex relationship between law and politics in the aftermath of the formation of a new Government. Maire Whelan was not regarded, prior to her appointment, as a member of the Law Library's "mensa set". The mensa set is not a formal group. Rather it is an ideology or an attribute bestowed on some lawyers who have garnished the respect and admiration -- often bordering on awe -- of their colleagues. They typically work in complex areas of the law and are handsomely rewarded for their genius -- some were reputed, prior to the collapse of the Celtic Tiger, to have taken home in excess of €2m a year. It is from this set, or mindset, that the prototype Irish Attorney General or senior judge is traditionally born. That expectation has heightened in recent years owing to the unprecedented financial crisis and the reliance placed by governments on the Office of the Attorney General. Whelan's appointment has not just offended the mensa set. It has also sent Fine Gael legal luminaries into a state of apoplexy because they have, for a second time, been ditched at the altar. The Law Library Blueshirts were similarly convulsed in the 1990s when the Fine Gael/Labour coalition appointed John Rogers, then recently elevated senior counsel, as Attorney General. Dick Spring had nominated Rogers for the post and Rogers went on to become one of the country's most celebrated attorney generals. Similar waves of protest have been simmering in the Law Library at Whelan's appointment: it's not personal, just political. Lawyers and judges have talked of little else since the electorate awarded a mandate to Fine Gael and Labour to steer Ireland out of its crisis. Most rumblings relate to the fact that Whelan was, prior to her appointment, an integral part of the Labour Party's election success. Others relate to the fact that she is "virtually unknown" even to some of her own colleagues. But are these charges unfair? Should the Attorney General be a household name prior to their appointment and is political nous a handicap or requirement for what is ultimately an inherently political role? Throughout her life Whelan has been breaking the mould and bucking trends. The eldest of seven children, who were reared on a small farm in Kinvara, Co Galway, she was the first of her family to attend secondary school and university. She studied political science at NUI Galway, and Michael D Higgins, one of her former lecturers, recalls a young woman who was steeped in the sociology of law. "Maire was a very active student," says Higgins. "She excelled at everything, she was such a hard worker. She began her legal career as a criminal lawyer and as a former chairperson of the Free Legal Advice Centres she understands the position of the ordinary citizen who comes into contact with the legal system." Like many barristers, Whelan set about building a general practice, but in later years honed her craft in areas such as trust, probate, family and child abduction law as well as property law and conveyance. She recently wrote a reference guide to the National Asset Management Agency Act and is primed to steer the Coalition through the choppy waters of public sector reform. Colleagues who are close to her say that she is intensely private and she is rarely seen on the Law Library circuit of social events. Her legal credentials are impeccable, but the fact that she was an integral part of the Labour Party's electoral machine is inescapable. The reality, however, is that almost all attorneys general appointed in the State have been political animals and had obvious party political affiliations. All were identified by their colours including the late Rory Brady (FF) and Peter Sutherland (FG). "To criticise her because she is political is absurd," said one senior legal official. "An Attorney General has to have political nous and has to have a feel for what is going on in politics." The exception to this trend is Paul Gallagher, appointed by Fianna Fail because of his outstanding merit at the bar. Fianna Fail also won plaudits for appointing a series of High and Supreme Court judges including Frank Clarke, Kevin Feeney and Donal O'Donnell who have no affiliations to the soldiers of destiny. The debate around Maire Whelan's appointment speaks volumes about the political currents that run deep in the law. Irish Independent 
