politics
{ Enda Kenny 
    September 29 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/enda-kenny-seanads-never-been-check-on-dail-29618460.html }
IT isn't often I find myself agreeing with Micheal Martin. But there is one thing he said that I think is absolutely true – the referendum taking place next Friday is a defining moment for the political future of our country. It is. It is about moving away from the old politics which can't let go of the failed institutions and policies of the past. It is about moving towards a new politics which is modern, forward-looking and fit for purpose. Micheal knows a thing or two about old politics and about failed policies. We all do, after 14 years of Fianna Fail governments left the country in a sorry state from which we are emerging slowly. But that's another story. This referendum delivers on a commitment I made before the last general election with a simple and clear choice for the people – vote Yes to abolish the Seanad, vote No to keep it. Some say the Seanad acts as a vital check on the Government, as an essential balance to the Dail. The truth is it never has. Others say the Dail is the problem, not the Seanad. The truth is the Dail does need reform, but that's not an argument for retaining the Seanad. The one thing that no one is saying, on any side, is that the Seanad works. Four years ago, before I went to the people at general election time with a promise they'd have their say on abolishing the Seanad, I instituted an in-depth examination of the political system. I saw how, for 75 years, the political establishment had debated reform of the Seanad. And how after 75 years, and 10 separate reports on Seanad reform, nothing had changed. And I came to the conclusion the Seanad is unreformable. And unnecessary for a country of our size. Ireland is one of six European countries with a population of between four and six million. None of the other five has a second house. In fact, some of the most effective democracies in the world have abolished their second houses. Like all of the Scandinavian countries. Like New Zealand which, like us, inherited its political system from the British empire. Why should Ireland have more politicians than other small countries? In the last five years, our country has been through an unprecedented crisis. A crisis that has wrought devastating consequences on families and businesses across the country, that forced every household, individual and company to face changes that have not been easy, to make sacrifices that have been painful but are beginning to pay dividends. Politics can be no different. I believe we can do more with less. More than that, I believe we can have a new politics, a better politics, with fewer politicians and at less cost. We are already reducing the Dail by eight TDs with a saving of €2m. We are reducing the number of city and county councillors by 40 per cent. We have cut the pay of Cabinet and all politicians. We have halved the cost of ministerial transport. We have ended the policy of paying TDs' pensions before they are 65 and ministers' pensions while they are still sitting TDs. We've done away with unvouched expenses and severance pay for ministers. All of this, and abolishing the Seanad, are part of a wider programme of political reform. We've made some important progress such as ending corporate donations to political parties and introducing gender quotas in the selection of candidates for elections. We extended the remit and accessibility of the Freedom of Information Act, protected whistleblowers and legislated for Oireachtas inquiries. It's a start. But it's only a start. A new and better politics can do more. A one-chamber parliament, the Dail, which is more responsive, more democratic and more accountable. Those who argue that the Dail will never be reformed are wrong. It is already sitting longer and working harder but we are increasing sitting times further. The Dail will spend more of that time on proper legislative debate. We will bring greater openness to the law-making process so that the views of civil society, advocacy groups and individuals can be heard. We are changing the Budget process so the people's elected representatives will be more involved. The people's elected representatives. That's not a phrase you could use to describe the Seanad. The Seanad which is elected by just 1 per cent of the population. The Seanad which has only the power to delay legislation, not overturn it, and hasn't used that power in 50 years. The Seanad which almost everyone agrees is a failed institution. So why pretend there is a reform option? That if we really put our minds to it we can come up with important things for the Seanad to do. That if we change a little bit here and a little bit there we can justify continuing to spend €20m a year on it that we can ill-afford. Next Friday, the people will have their say. The fate of the Seanad rests with them. It is my hope that they will see this referendum as a step along the path to a new politics which is ambitious and embraces change. It is my hope that they will vote Yes. But the power is in their hands. Enda Kenny is a Fine Gael TD for Co Mayo Sunday Independent 
