politics
{  
    November 11 2007 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/besieged-health-system-is-wallowing-in-disaster-26330971.html }
Mary Harney, the Minister for Health and acting leader of the Progressive Democrats, is wallowing in disaster. What started as a courageous venture to clean up the polluted waters of the Department of Health has turned nasty. Public confidence in the delivery of health services has collapsed and the reform process she trumpeted has been shunted into compromise and disarray. Instead of facing her disasters head on, she turns away from them, avoiding interrogation and shirking responsibility, taking her lead from Bertie Ahern, the Taoiseach who takes responsibility for nothing. The result is deeply damaging, both for her and for the health service over which she is meant to preside. Unless she can summon the energy to change course, her legacy will be one of unmitigated failure. Harney and Ahern have tried to claim that the current crisis in the health service stems from human error, not from systemic failure. The truth, however, is that the misdiagnosis of patients with breast cancer is a direct result of the Government's failure to implement reforms that would have put patients' interests at the very centre of the health service. Human error may, or may not, have been directly responsible for the mis-diagnoses, but the toleration of a system without proper checks and balances and without uncompromising standards of excellence is a direct result of this Government's failings. Political failure, not medical failure or mechanical failure, was the real reason that all women experienced the nightmare of doubt that Portlaoise Hospital's errors generated. It is a failure that Ahern and Harney refuse to acknowledge, and that refusal guarantees that there can be no prospect of positive change. For both of them, it is enough, apparently, to vote through a massive budget, employ 120,000 people and "expect the staff to be doing their best", as Ahern told the Dail earlier this week. That is Ahern's definition of leadership and sadly Harney has shuffled into line behind her Taoiseach. If she were just any old Fianna Fail hack, her performance would be understandable. Brian Cowen, the Taoiseach-in-waiting, spent two years with the health portfolio before escaping to the unchallenging waters of the Department of Foreign Affairs; Micheal Martin was in office for five years, and no one -- apart from smokers -- really noticed. That's what you expect from Fianna Fail ministers -- keep the head down and survive. Harney promised much more, so her reversion to Fianna Fail type has been both more depressing and more damaging. She raised expectations, threw encouraging shapes, but then ducked away when the going got tough. There can be no doubting that Harney's intentions were good, but they have been undone by a combination of political cowardice and managerial incompetence. She was right to press ahead with the abolition of the regional health boards and the creation of the Health Service Executive, but she then neutered the HSE at birth. The reasons for getting rid of the health boards were sound. They had politicised and fragmented health care and their existence frustrated national policy. They worked against proper use of the taxpayers' money because of unnecessary duplication of services and lack of co-operation between the boards. The health boards' weaknesses were political, medical and managerial -- patients did not get the best possible health care because money and resources were wasted. But Harney's abolition was in name only: the health boards and their staff were subsumed into the HSE, and the Department of Health was left untouched. A fragmented bureaucracy became a centralised bureaucracy and the message went out from the top that change was notional, not seismic. The politicisation of health care -- the hospital in every town mentality -- was not eradicated, it just went below the radar. For all their faults, the regional health boards at least allowed us to see the parochialism that blighted the health service. Once they were removed, the parochialism carried on, but at a different level. Politics continues to frustrate reform and Harney has failed to face it down. Medical politics, too, play a pivotal role in frustrating reform -- but how can they be taken out of the equation if the minister will not first excise the parish pump? The HSE, as created by Harney, and the Department of Health, which she runs, are not fit for purpose because she has chosen not to make them so. And even if the HSE were a lean, dynamic and efficient organisation, it would still be prevented from delivering a decent health service because Harney has allowed politics, both medical and parochial, to influence decision- making. The patient is forgotten while the votes are counted and the medical egos are massaged. Harney, of course, must operate in the bizarre political universe created by Bertie Ahern, but that is her choice. It is Ahern who sets the tone for Irish politics, and it is Ahern who champions the parish pump over the national interest. Ahern is happy to have Ministers of State, like Jimmy Deavins in health, who share his desire to have it both ways. Deavins supports the concept of centres of excellence for cancer care, but naturally will fight locally to ensure that Sligo does not lose out. Ahern appoints his junior ministers not because they are competent or well-suited to a role, but because of their geography. He embraces rather than confronts trade unions, handing out massive pay increases to the public sector without demanding reform, asking for support in return for leaving their fiefdoms intact. His implicit pact with the unions rules out serious reform, but that does not prevent him talking the talk. It is the emptiest of rhetoric, because the non-reform deal has already been signed and sealed. It is a style well suited to winning elections on the back of economic booms, but it has nothing to do with political leadership or delivering high quality public services. Harney, though, chooses to serve under Ahern. She has chosen to prop up his governments and she has chosen to operate to his terms. She cannot use Ahern as an excuse for her failure to challenge or change the culture. The consequences of her failure spread throughout the health service and erode confidence. How can you champion reform if you will not reform from the very top? (Or how, indeed, can a taoiseach champion wage restraint while trousering an increase of 15 per cent for himself?) And how can you create confidence in the decision-making of the HSE if you fail to excise political interference? When the HSE decided that the taoiseach's constituency was the best place to put the new National Children's Hospital, it was difficult to avoid the suspicion that politics had played its part, no matter how vigorously it was denied. And when the HSE announces the locations for its much-trumpeted centres of excellence in cancer care, it will be equally difficult to take its decisions at face value. Why will Dublin get four centres? Why not three, located in the three teaching hospitals? Who decides, and why? What evidence will be produced to support the decisions? Why will different types of cancers be split up between Dublin's hospitals, and not centralised? There may be valid reasons for every decision the HSE makes, but those decisions will not command confidence because Harney has failed to remove politics from the decision-making process. The failures go far deeper than the management of the health service. Under Ahern's three successive governments, taxpayers have chosen in droves to buy private health insurance to supplement the national service. Those that cannot afford it, or who choose for ideological reasons not to buy it, suffer. That is an indictment of Ahern's 10 years, and it makes a mockery of the five-fold increase in health spending that he has sanctioned. His health ministers have all failed to deliver a reform of the funding and incentivisation of the health service that would reward hospitals and doctors for treating as many patients as possible, as quickly as possible. Instead, Ahern continues to throw money at a public system that is designed to create waiting lists and that benefits from empty wards or blocked beds because efficiency is punished, not rewarded. Harney has been right to champion the involvement of the private sector in the health service, but she has categorically failed to win the argument because she has created the impression that private involvement will exacerbate the inequities of a two-tier system rather than ease them. She has also dragged her feet on more basic issues: three years in the job, and still there is no proper regulation or licensing of hospitals, no regular audits to ensure high standards. She has, without question, failed to deliver on the promise she engendered when she took the job. It was always going to be difficult, and the disappointment comes not from the failure but from the manner of that failure. Harney last week was indistinguishable from her Fianna Fail colleagues, a minister without fire, without passion and without hope. She has been swallowed by the culture she promised to reform, trapped in a world that shoots messengers and tries to silence critics.Her time, sadly, has passed. Once a champion of a new politics and a leader who exuded courage and conviction, she now exists as a minister at Ahern's whim, and her only usefulness to him now is to take the fall if public anger does not abate. Real reform will have to wait for a new taoiseach, and probably for a new government: this one only dresses windows. 
