politics
{ Kim Bielenberg 
    October 24 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/talking-politics-in-the-classroom-26326919.html }
TDs and civil servants are moving into classrooms in a bid to generate excitement about politics among young people. As part of a new Oireachtas initiative, politicians are visiting second-level schools right across the country in order to give pupils the benefit of their wisdom. Politicians may have noticed that many Junior Cert students have little difficulty naming characters from Coronation Street or Celebrities Go Wild. But when it comes to the faces of political leaders they can still be flummoxed. Last year, Ireland's Chief Examiner reported that "relatively few'' students could identify Mary Harney, Enda Kenny or Pat Rabbitte when asked to do so in the Civil, Social and Political Education (CSPE) exam paper at Junior Cert level. Somehow they managed to recognise Bertie Ahern, however. CSPE -- formerly known as Civics -- was introduced a decade ago at Junior Cert level in response to a perceived apathy about politics and active citizenship among young people. CSPE teachers have been working valiantly to stir up interest in current affairs among pupils with mock elections, visits to the Dail and projects connected with issues such as the environment and human rights. But the teachers will readily admit that the subject continues to be something of a poor relation; a "filler subject'' allotted one period a week in the timetable. One student in an internet chatroom probably spoke for many when he described it as a "Mickey Mouse subject''. Principals complain that it is hard to find CSPE teachers because of the subject's low status. But there is also recognition that if it is well taught, CSPE could play an important role in encouraging active citizenship and teaching pupils the rudiments of democracy. CSPE teacher Bernadine O'Sullivan, of St Mary's School for the hearing impaired in Dublin, welcomed the initiative by the Oireachtas to introduce a parliamentary education programme. She said she hoped the organisers would meet teachers in order to develop the initiative. Ms O'Sullivan, who is treasurer of the Association of CSPE Teachers, said she hoped the subject would be boosted when a Political and Social Studies course is eventually introduced at Leaving Cert level. "Even though the subject is compulsory (at Junior Cert level), it is still not given much value. There is a huge turnover of CSPE teachers in schools. "Continuing the subject at Leaving Certificate will help to make politics more relevant for young people. The students are more mature and they can relate issues to themselves. "Trying to make politics as relevant as possible to young people is a good idea. It is important however, that the parliamentary programme reaches as many pupils as possible and is not just confined to a few schools.'' The parliamentary education programme is being spearheaded by the Ceann Comhairle of the Dail, John O'Donoghue. "I feel that it is very important for young people to understand how our parliament works. It is important that we do not take our democracy for granted. "We are trying to bring the political system to the kids. "If politicians go out and meet students in schools, the pupils will be able to touch it and feel it. They may then feel it is more relevant to them.'' John O'Donoghue points to recent research showing that 60pc of people do not regard the work of Oireachtas as important. One fifth of people surveyed did not know what the Dail and the Seanad actually did. The half-day programme where politicians and civil servants go to schools to talk to CSPE students is currently being piloted in a number of schools. It will be rolled out to all to schools from next September. The precise details of how the programme will work remain sketchy -- and there are concerns that individual politicians could promote a partisan view. "This is not really about politics and promoting one view,'' says John O'Donoghue. "It is about telling people how the parliamentary system works.'' Caitriona Nolan, CSPE co-ordinator at Cabinteely Community School, said pupils were prepared to ask tough questions when local TD and Education Minister Mary Hanafin visited recently. "The pupils were very interested to meet politicians and to talk to them,'' says the CSPE teacher. "I believe a CSPE course can work very well if it is well-organised. Last year, a group went to the Dail and organised the trip themselves. "In Third Year, there was a mock election, which coincided with the general election. That created a lot of interest. "We encourage the pupils to read the papers and to watch the news, and to discuss what they see. A typical issue that the students would learn about is the situation in Burma.'' The CSPE course is not all about politics. During the Junior cycle, Cabinteely pupils are also learning about the environment and animal rights. "They organised a visit by local Gardai, and they were very interested to learn how the Gardai operate.'' Siobhra Aiken, a Fifth Year student at Ashbourne Community College, says CSPE is a useful subject, but it is not always taken seriously by students. "Because it is only one period every week, it is not considered to be as important as other subjects. Sometimes it is used as a way of filling up a teacher's timetable. "That is a shame, because it is an opportunity to learn about rights and responsibilities. The political content is also very important, because there is no other place on the curriculum where you learn how our political system works.'' When she was doing CSPE, Siobhra Aiken took part in a project about a local animal rescue centre. n Siobhra Aiken is president of the Union of Secondary Students. 
