politics
{ Declan Lynch 
    October 07 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/dylan-had-right-take-on-trivial-politics-26417333.html }
Six One News (RTE1) The Week In Politics (RTE1) Scannal (RTE1) 30 Things To Do With Your SSIA (RTE1) WHEN asked if he was a "political" singer, Bob Dylan supposedly replied that he wouldn't concern himself with anything as trivial as politics. Which at one level is just a smart answer, and on closer inspection is as deeply wise as an Oscar Wilde epigram. Watching the past week in Irish politics, it was often hard to tell what was actually important, and what was given importance by the political reporters in order to maintain their own sense of importance. It can be hard for them, at times, to come across as big players, when they're seen on the Six One News crowding around Bertie in Tipperary, which is a long way to go, just to inform the viewers that Bertie says he has nothing to say. In the midst of this ruck of reporters, I espied a spin-doctor who used to be a reporter. Or has he left the spin-doctoring and become a reporter again? Looking at this abysmal scene, it was almost impossible to tell which side he was on. And frankly, even back in the days when he was definitely a reporter, it was still hard to tell which side he was on. You must remember this, when you see the media foaming at the mouth in this fashion - half of these characters will probably end up working for the same politicians into whose gobs they are thrusting their microphones. In this incestuous context, the odd Leinster House furore is needed to keep the whole circus on the road, to give the impression there's still a bit of life in it, that it justifies the attentions of such significant media figures. Otherwise, the space taken up in newspapers by the chronically dreary activities of Fine Gael or the Greens would rightly be given over to sport, which in Ireland has long ago replaced politics as the main topic of debate among intelligent people. A rough impression of the average 'Q&A' audience would reveal that political enthusiasts are increasingly drawn from the wilder shores. And then, late on Sunday nights when most normal people are abed, there's The Week In Politics, which is an immensely dull programme. As a member of the media classes, I would have an incurable addiction to this sort of thing, and yet I can't get any sort of a buzz out of it. This is probably not the fault of presenter Sean O'Rourke, whose energy is that of an increasingly weary schoolmaster trying to motivate a class of messers. The fault is mainly with the contributors, and the plain fact that most of them just can't talk very well. You could watch the Tory Conference last week, and see some minor figure in the local politics of Ashby-de-la-Zouche, rising to heights of oratory which have been unknown in Leinster House since the days of James Dillon - at least they all say that Dillon could talk very well, but then the same boys say that Michael McDowell has a brain so huge, it is actually two brains. Anyway, whatever excitement we get from Irish politics, it's not going to come from great flights of rhetoric. It's going to come from the sort of characters featured in last week's Scannal programme dedicated to the Flynnasty of Castlebar, mainly Pee and Beverly. By a dark coincidence, this featured another scene of someone making a graceless last stand in the Dail - in this case, Beverly spoke while behind her in the frame sat two men, poker-faced as she made her statement. They were Mr Sean Doherty and Mr Liam Lawlor. This was the only bit of perspective we got all week. NONE of which should be taken as an endorsement of Eddie Hobbs's attitude, as expressed in his new series 30 Things To Do With Your SSIA. When Eddie quips that something is "so simple even a backbencher could understand it", thinking he's Lenny Bruce, somehow we are all diminished. If everything in Ireland eventually gets turned into cabaret, including politics and economics, then this is cabaret of the lowest kind. From the embarrassing opening blast of Eddie in Trainspotting mode, to the completely pointless and unfunny scenes involving a heavily-disguised Eddie trying to fool "members of the general public", this is Eddie the Eejit making the parade of hollow men on The Week In Politics seem strangely impressive. When you realise there's two more of these, you start losing the will to live. 
