politics
{  
    April 02 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/sandra-is-youngest-27438506.html }
By Simon O DuffyWomen in general have had as tough a time breaking into the political arena as they have had with just about any other structure of society.    By Simon O’ Duffy   Women in general have had as tough a time breaking into the political arena as they have had with just about any other structure of society. “ I am determined to effect change where I see something wrong with the community”, says Sandra, who is the youngest candidate running in the council elections. “That’s what politics is about; doing something because you strongly believe in it, regardless of what others might think. My father and mother always encouraged me to do what I wanted to do even if it wasn’t popular, like playing soccer or touch rugby. If you want to do something you just have to get out there and do it”. Such was her proficiency and enthusiasm that Sandra was nominated to deliver the Breast Check case to Enda Kenny in Templemore two years ago. “He was very impressed; I’d sold our position to him. And that’s when it dawned on me. That’s when I knew I wanted to get involved in politics. So when Kathleen told me to think about becoming a Labour candidate my mind was already somewhat made up. I suppose I always sort of knew I’d be representing my community because that’s what I’d always wanted to do. I just got out there, got great support and was nominated for the Party. And now here I am”. In spite of her youth the Knockanpierce girl, working as a nurse at Nenagh Hospital, has a whole host of accolades to boast of, including four diplomas and a BSc in Nursing from the Royal College of Surgeons, an Order of Malta Cadet of the Year Award and the Tom Keogh Memorial Shield for First Aid. She holds the positions of Secretary/Events Manager of Nenagh Hospital Action Committee, Secretary of the National Interim Steering Hospital Committee and PRO of the Nenagh Choral Society to name but a few. “I’m not on all these committees to get elected”, she maintains. “I’m on them because I believe in what they stand for. It will be the same if I get on the Town Council”. Should she achieve her latest goal and get elected this June, Sandra has several issues she’d like to bring to the fore. Nenagh Hospital will take centre stage, as Sandra seeks to retain all those services threatened by the Hanly Report in Nenagh and insure that the hospital is not downgraded. She is also keen to initiate a closer sense of community in the town, and proposes the construction of a community centre to facilitate this end. “Nenagh is one of the biggest towns in Ireland and yet we don’t have a community centre”, she laments. “That’s just not good enough”. Another of Sandra’s aims is to integrate Nenagh’s youth into politics. “Young people just don’t get involved in politics”, she says. “They don’t vote, a lot of them don’t care. But you can’t blame them. You look at what the government are doing. They promise you two thousand beds in six months, you get five hundred in two years; they promise to clear waiting lists, the lists are never cleared; every day you hear about new scandals and tribunals. So of course there’s apathy out there”. But at twenty-two, going on twenty-three, Sandra has a substantial degree of faith in the political system and is prepared to fly the flag for the youth of this town. “I want to help young people to help themselves, to be their voice in the wider community. Politics is about empowering people and young people definitely need their voice to be heard out there. I want and need their support because I can’t go anywhere without it, but I can do so much with it”. Sandra is the first to admit that, being one of the youngest (
if not the youngest) political candidates in the country has a lot of attached preconceptions, as she discovered when she opted out of politics earlier this year with a view to concentrating on university studies. “I was going to have to go to Belfast to do my Masters”, Sandra explains, “but then, as luck would have it, the same course became available in Limerick, so I was able to stay put here in Nenagh and continue studying. So I got back into politics again, and people were thinking to themselves ‘oh, she’s indecisive, she’s only twenty-three, she doesn’t know what she wants to do’. But that’s not how it is. I’m fully committed to what I’m doing. I’m staying put here in Nenagh now, where my community is. I’m not going anywhere”. As for being a young woman, Sandra is not at all phased at the prospect of entering the patriarchal world of local politics. “I don’t really think the gender issue matters anymore”, she insists. “The opportunities are there for women, who do the exact same job as men, so why shouldn’t we be successful in politics? I know the typical image of a politician is a fifty year-old man in a suit. I’m not happy with that because I know that I can do just as good a job and people are aware of that. I think that attitudes are changing in society in general”. Of course, being young has its advantages for Sandra, whose ambitions and future aspirations are far-reaching to say the least. “Going for the Town Council is like a stepping-stone for me. I’ll see how it goes but four or five years down the road I’ll be trying for the County Council. I’ll keep my feet on the ground and learn from my mistakes – I’m young enough for that. Our end goal is to win a seat but I’m only twenty-three and should be having fun too, and it’s certainly been fun so far!” In parting Sandra expresses her enthusiasm for the elections to begin come what may. “I’m looking forward to the challenge, I always do. It’s been a roller-coaster ride of ups and downs as far as here, but I know this is what I want. Even if I don’t get elected I’m still going to be out there representing the people in my community, confident that I can do it. I’m young, fresh, I’ve got a great team behind me and I’m doing what I believe in”. And remember you read it here first! 
