politics
{  
    June 11 2009 10:15 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/lifestyle/mixed-emotions-expected-for-the-election-results-in-mallow-27070429.html }
On this Friday the people of Mallow will cast their votes in the Mallow Town Council elections. On Saturday the fate of some candidates will hang in the balance as the count commences at 9am. The Mallow count will be held in St. Patrick's Boy's National School Hall. Count day is full of anxiety, pressure, tears, cheers, firm handshakes, back slapping, hugs, kisses, bitter disappointment and full blooded celebrations for the candidates, their families and the loyal supporters who trekked the, streets, lanes, boreens and roads of Mallow over the past few weeks with the hope of winning that precious seat in the Town Hall chamber. The count centre is full of activity for the first few hours as tallymen huddle in various groups as the papers are being taken from their boxes and put in the individual candidates' 'pigeon holes'. Scratch pads, voting sheets, mobile phones and in more recent times the laptop are at the ready to reveal a somewhat close account of where those all important number one votes go on the ballot sheet. In the Mallow Town election the first count is normally announced around lunchtime, which will give, all present an important inclination of success or failure in the hours ahead. It is the first time in 40 years that the ballot papers are without the name Sherlock. The late Joe Sherlock dominated the town elections for many years and for a short period his son Sean was a clear winner before he gave up his seat when he was triumphant in his first attempt in the last General Election in 2007. This time out the 800 plus Sherlock votes in the town election are up for grabs but who will gain from it. The town election is often seen as more of a personality battle rather than a political contest and the majority of votes won are on a personal basis. On Saturday the Labour side will be confident of gains from these votes but you can never be too sure at this level in local politics. It must be remembered that the electorate personally know most if not all of the candidates in contention so it is a fact that friendship can be a winner over traditional and staunch party support as seen in county and general elections. For one well known Mallow family in particular this years Mallow Town Council elections present a dilemma. Sylvia Ward (nee Byrne) is married to Fine Gael newcomer Eddie Ward while her younger sister Elaine Sheehan is wife of Labour's Ronan Sheehan who is also running for the first time. The Byrne sister's uncle, Fianna Fail veteran, David Willis, a seasoned player in this contest, is also in the race, while cousin Roy Willis is a first timer for Fianna Fail. It would be some experience to be a fly on the wall in the Byrne household. The quota in Town Elections over the past 15 years is an average of 400 votes, so to secure a safe passage a candidate would need at least 280 first preference votes to overcome obstacles as the PR system kicks in to action on each count. Noel O'Connor of Fine Gael is running in the Elections. The former teacher is one of the busiest councillors in the race and his political experience is solid. O'Connor won the 6th seat in the 14th count with 218 first preference votes in his first election in 1994. In 1999 he was elected in the second count with 368 votes to win the fifth seat. In 2004 he took the third seat in the first count with a personal vote of 460. Dan Joe Fitzgerald is a seasoned campaigner and well liked in the community. He scored 329 personal votes in 1994, which secured the fifth seat. Five years later he took the second seat with a fine 578 vote while in 2004 it was the second seat with 515. Out going Town Mayor James Kennedy of Labour is also vying for a seat. The Dairygold Lab technician has left his mark in local politics. He won the fifth seat with 364 votes in 2004 Popular Southsider Willie O'Regan was the new kid on the block five years ago when he won the fourth seat in the second count, which surprised the most experienced of local political analysts. O'Regan is destined to take the fourth seat and could hit the jackpot earlier to the expense of Kennedy and Fitzgerald. Many of the old Sherlock votes could come his way on Saturday. In the Sinn Fein camp it is hoped his surplus will come to the aid of party colleague Stella O'Sullivan on Saturday who may be in contention for a later seat. Labours Jerry Mullally is running his third contest having taken the seventh seat in 1999 and the eight seat in 2004. In his career he was very vocal on many town issues in the Council chamber. The popular GAA figure Ronan Sheehan makes his debut in local politics and is one of the most talked about candidates in the race. David Willis is the most seasoned player in this election. The popular television presenter won the fourth seat in 1994, the third seat in 1999 and the sixth seat in 2004 with a good healthy average of 400 first preference votes. As regards party politics Willis will be one of the only runners who will receive staunch party votes. Fine Gael candidate Richard Dempsey is another experienced player in the field. In 1999 he won the sixth seat with 268 first preference votes while in 2004 he took the final seat with a personal tally of 268. Dempsey could do a little better if O'Connor's transfers go in his direction. Colourful candidate Johnny 'Bottles' Griffin could rattle cages in this contest. The popular coach and D. J. is running independent for the first time and by all accounts he is delighted with the response he is receiving at the doors on his canvass. Roisin Lucey is the fourth member of the Labour team. She contested the County seat vacated by Sean Sherlock with colleague Jerry Mullally but lost in the vote. If Labour votes transfer well she could be a new member of the Town Council in the heal of the hunt. Deeply involved in charitable work Roy Willis is another newcomer who is popular in Mallow affairs. He could be in the shake up in the late evening. Local bookshop owner Eddie Ward of Fine Gael is a new candidate running for a seat on Mallow Town Council. Fine Gael's Breda O'Riordan is running for Fine Gael vote and with the help of O'Connor's transfers she could be in the shake up at the latter end of the count. Eddie Finn is another newcomer contesting the Local Elections this time around. On this Friday the people of Mallow will cast their votes in the Mallow Town Council elections. On Saturday the fate of some candidates will hang in the balance as the count commences at 9am. The Mallow count will be held in St. Patrick's Boy's National School Hall. Count day is full of anxiety, pressure, tears, cheers, firm handshakes, back slapping, hugs, kisses, bitter disappointment and full blooded celebrations for the candidates, their families and the loyal supporters who trekked the, streets, lanes, boreens and roads of Mallow over the past few weeks with the hope of winning that precious seat in the Town Hall chamber. The count centre is full of activity for the first few hours as tallymen huddle in various groups as the papers are being taken from their boxes and put in the individual candidates' 'pigeon holes'. Scratch pads, voting sheets, mobile phones and in more recent times the laptop are at the ready to reveal a somewhat close account of where those all important number one votes go on the ballot sheet. In the Mallow Town election the first count is normally announced around lunchtime, which will give, all present an important inclination of success or failure in the hours ahead. It is the first time in 40 years that the ballot papers are without the name Sherlock. The late Joe Sherlock dominated the town elections for many years and for a short period his son Sean was a clear winner before he gave up his seat when he was triumphant in his first attempt in the last General Election in 2007. This time out the 800 plus Sherlock votes in the town election are up for grabs but who will gain from it. The town election is often seen as more of a personality battle rather than a political contest and the majority of votes won are on a personal basis. On Saturday the Labour side will be confident of gains from these votes but you can never be too sure at this level in local politics. It must be remembered that the electorate personally know most if not all of the candidates in contention so it is a fact that friendship can be a winner over traditional and staunch party support as seen in county and general elections. For one well known Mallow family in particular this years Mallow Town Council elections present a dilemma. Sylvia Ward (nee Byrne) is married to Fine Gael newcomer Eddie Ward while her younger sister Elaine Sheehan is wife of Labour's Ronan Sheehan who is also running for the first time. The Byrne sister's uncle, Fianna Fail veteran, David Willis, a seasoned player in this contest, is also in the race, while cousin Roy Willis is a first timer for Fianna Fail. It would be some experience to be a fly on the wall in the Byrne household. The quota in Town Elections over the past 15 years is an average of 400 votes, so to secure a safe passage a candidate would need at least 280 first preference votes to overcome obstacles as the PR system kicks in to action on each count. Noel O'Connor of Fine Gael is running in the Elections. The former teacher is one of the busiest councillors in the race and his political experience is solid. O'Connor won the 6th seat in the 14th count with 218 first preference votes in his first election in 1994. In 1999 he was elected in the second count with 368 votes to win the fifth seat. In 2004 he took the third seat in the first count with a personal vote of 460. Dan Joe Fitzgerald is a seasoned campaigner and well liked in the community. He scored 329 personal votes in 1994, which secured the fifth seat. Five years later he took the second seat with a fine 578 vote while in 2004 it was the second seat with 515. Out going Town Mayor James Kennedy of Labour is also vying for a seat. The Dairygold Lab technician has left his mark in local politics. He won the fifth seat with 364 votes in 2004 Popular Southsider Willie O'Regan was the new kid on the block five years ago when he won the fourth seat in the second count, which surprised the most experienced of local political analysts. O'Regan is destined to take the fourth seat and could hit the jackpot earlier to the expense of Kennedy and Fitzgerald. Many of the old Sherlock votes could come his way on Saturday. In the Sinn Fein camp it is hoped his surplus will come to the aid of party colleague Stella O'Sullivan on Saturday who may be in contention for a later seat. Labours Jerry Mullally is running his third contest having taken the seventh seat in 1999 and the eight seat in 2004. In his career he was very vocal on many town issues in the Council chamber. The popular GAA figure Ronan Sheehan makes his debut in local politics and is one of the most talked about candidates in the race. David Willis is the most seasoned player in this election. The popular television presenter won the fourth seat in 1994, the third seat in 1999 and the sixth seat in 2004 with a good healthy average of 400 first preference votes. As regards party politics Willis will be one of the only runners who will receive staunch party votes. Fine Gael candidate Richard Dempsey is another experienced player in the field. In 1999 he won the sixth seat with 268 first preference votes while in 2004 he took the final seat with a personal tally of 268. Dempsey could do a little better if O'Connor's transfers go in his direction. Colourful candidate Johnny 'Bottles' Griffin could rattle cages in this contest. The popular coach and D. J. is running independent for the first time and by all accounts he is delighted with the response he is receiving at the doors on his canvass. Roisin Lucey is the fourth member of the Labour team. She contested the County seat vacated by Sean Sherlock with colleague Jerry Mullally but lost in the vote. If Labour votes transfer well she could be a new member of the Town Council in the heal of the hunt. Deeply involved in charitable work Roy Willis is another newcomer who is popular in Mallow affairs. He could be in the shake up in the late evening. Local bookshop owner Eddie Ward of Fine Gael is a new candidate running for a seat on Mallow Town Council. Fine Gael's Breda O'Riordan is running for Fine Gael vote and with the help of O'Connor's transfers she could be in the shake up at the latter end of the count. Eddie Finn is another newcomer contesting the Local Elections this time around. 
