politics
{  
    May 09 2009 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/people-say-im-mad-but-maybe-we-need-a-bit-of-madness-26534582.html }
It is not the critic who counts, not the man who points out how the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood, who strives valiantly ... in a worthy cause. Theodore Roosevelt, the author of the words above, must be smiling fondly down on George Lee today. On Monday morning, the country's best-known economics commentator chose to hang up his boots from the premier league of Irish broadcasting to climb into the murky, cut-throat world of politics. The time had come for him to put his money where his mouth was, to walk the walk instead of talking the talk, to leave, in his own words, his dream job and try to make things better. But by Wednesday afternoon, there was little sign of the super-cool Lee, who has made the so-called dismal science of economics so accessible in his daily reports he can scarcely step onto the street without being asked the definition of GDP. As he prepared to meet his new boss Enda Kenny for the first time since making his decision to run in the June 5 by-election in Dublin South, it wasn't so much a case of striving valiantly into the political arena as Roosevelt might have hoped, but trying to calm the sense of fear and dread in the pit of his stomach over what the future might hold. "It's like going to the top of a big diving board. When you look at it from down below and say 'I'm going to jump off that', you think, 'Oh God, no!' -- and you get the willies. Now I've jumped and I'm in that great big pool, but I have no idea what's underneath the water. I know people say I am mad. But maybe we need a bit of madness. And anyway, madness is only someone else doing what you would not dare. "Yes, I'm taking a huge risk. Leaving RTE is like leaving a family behind, but apart from that there's all the financial upheaval. "I'm walking away from a €150,000 job, a secure salary, which is such a treacherous thing to do. We're a single-income family so there is a risk for everyone, not just me. That would give you the blooming willies too." On Monday, the 46-year-old Dubliner broke the news to his two children, DIT student Alison (20) and Harry (12), that his face would no longer be appearing on the nightly news but on local lamp-posts instead as his campaign for a Fine Gael seat in the Dáil got under way. Up to then, the only person he had discussed it with was his wife and closest confidante, Mary, who works in the home. "It was the last thing they expected," he says. "We are not financially secure. I bought my house in Cabinteely 11 years ago so I don't have massive debts and I drive a 10-year-old Mercedes. I didn't get caught up in the glamour of the Celtic Tiger so we're lucky in that regard -- but it is frightening to turn your back on that security. "I'm a bit like a salmon swimming against the river. I'm not sure what is driving me to do this, but I know my own instinct and that it is the right thing for me. If we all go along refusing to leave our cocoon, the world would be very boring and nothing would get done. "It would have been so much easier for me to stay where I was. I had the dream job in RTE but there is an extent to which I was trapped by the comfort of it and the fact that I might be having an impact. "I was among the highest paid in the newsroom, but I didn't want to be trapped by money any more. At the end of the day, you can't take it with you. For me, the most important thing in life now is freedom. "Freedom to know, go, do and be. When I look at the economic collapse, I see so many people who are trapped with massive mortgages and other debts and I feel hugely for them. The same people are losing their jobs, they are filling the dole queues, suffering from the lack of economic opportunity and the collapse of the banks. They have lost their freedom. I don't want to waste the opportunity to play a part in trying to give it back to them." The second youngest in a family of eight, George Lee grew up in the middle-class suburb of Templeogue in south Dublin. His father was a motor mechanic, his mother a hairdresser. He was educated by the Christian Brothers at Coláiste Éanna in nearby Ballyroan, a school which also produced the country's two finest golfers, Padraig Harrington and Paul McGinley. His parents, who died more than a decade ago, were not political people. "I don't even know who they voted for," Lee claims. It was education that was the focus of everyday family life. But at school, he shirked economics and business, focusing on maths, his forte and great love. His goal back then was to become a primary teacher. "I went off to do a commerce degree on a grant, which I didn't want to do. Everyone else thought that would be a good idea for me." Six weeks later, he left the course and joined the civil service, spending two years in the Central Statistics Office. "Economics seemed like too much reading to me but to keep the people at home happy, I did an evening course in it while I was working. That was my introduction to it, and it has been at the core of my being ever since. "If you ask me what I am, I am an economist. I ended up doing pure Economics at college. I got a scholarship to study at the London School of Economics. I would have been top of my class all the way. I started off as an economist in a stockbrokers. I worked in the Central Bank. I lectured in Economics at college. Yet like journalism and politics, it was always something I was never going to do." What ultimately steered Lee to change the course of his life so dramatically this week was the recession. Month after month, as he reported on what was unravelling into a catastrophic economic crisis, he found himself unable to switch off after a day at the office. "I suppose I was taking work home with me. There were many times when my mind would be racing at night because I could see a massive collapse coming down the tracks and the type of landing Ireland was going to have. I'd have to get up in the middle of the night and do something else before I could go back to sleep. "We are the greatest riches to rags story that's ever been told in the industrialised world. We've gone from a situation where we had low national debt to one where we're bailing out the banks with €70bn to €90bn of debt on the basis of a six-page summary in a consultant's report. Give me a bloody break. "What has brought me into politics is the complete cock-up in economic management where you have people who are absolutely economically illiterate wallowing in their political arrogance and making absolutely ridiculous mistakes. They wanted to present themselves as if they could walk on water and deliver everything to everybody, then smile and walk away. They have left us in one hell of a sorry mess. "We had massive wealth, but it's gone. Where has it gone? What happened to all that money? What did they do with it? "In my opinion, the most horrific thing that emerged during the Celtic Tiger was the 40-year mortgage. The idea that a house was suddenly affordable because you could buy it over 40 years was insane. "You had 25-year-olds being told they could have a 40-year mortgage for a two-bed-apartment 70 miles from where they worked and weren't they really lucky? Pass me a bucket. A person can't live like that." Since he disclosed his plans to run in the election, Lee has faced a storm of criticism from political circles and the media, some of it roundly justified. He has no proven track record in politics. No-one knows what his policies are. Is he expecting to get elected because of his celebrity status? Has he been fooling the public by purporting to be politically neutral on the news when all the time he was in bed with Fine Gael? And was it all about some burning ambition to get a grasp of the nation's purse strings? "None of this was planned, I swear to God," he says. "I know it is hard for some people to grapple with, but the key reason I am going into politics is to try and make things better. I didn't want to have to do it and I'm not looking forward to it. But the country needs an alternative and the opposition needs more strength. "If in the end I can strengthen their resolve and influence their economic policy, that's enough for me. "I'm not in it for a job or to become Taoiseach or Ireland's Barack Obama. I promise, cross my heart and hope to die. I have never had a discussion with Fine Gael about what job they are going to give me. I don't have to be the person making the decisions. I'm number seven out of a family of eight. I was never the boss. I had no difficulty being in that position. I am not motivated by power. "And no I don't have a track record -- but if you took that approach, nobody would ever go into politics. That's a load of bull. I have spent 17 years of my life trying to explain to the public what was going on in the economy, informing them about pensions, tax, wealth. That's what I've done for my community. "All that time, my economic commentary has been done in the full glare of the public and up against all forms of scrutiny. You show me a member of the Dáil with that sort of track record? 'People like to paint me as a prophet of doom but I was just doing my job. I was the dog that barked but that doesn't mean the dog is vicious. He was only doing his job. "As for the celebrity, it is purely accidental. I mean who would ever imagine that the grim science of economics would turn you into a celebrity? "I think people know my politics. I don't want government to interfere with or run anybody's life, but you have to ensure the economy is in such a strong state that people have the choices to live their own lives. "The number one thing for me is protecting jobs and helping those who are unemployed -- the 388,600 people at the last count who are on the dole, heading up to 600,000 by the end of the year." As he embarks on a new chapter in his life, Lee is looking forward to reverting to a less complicated life and "being human again". "I like the simple things in life, going to the cinema and being with the family. I'd love to do a little bit of art or drawing, just something quiet. I took a holiday on a boat two years in a row, which was great. I just loved the peace and quiet. I might do that again." But come Monday morning, when the reality of everyday political life kicks in, the country's star business reporter will find himself on the receiving end of phone calls about pot-holes and plumbing from would-be constituents touting their votes. "Won't that be great? Roll on those calls, I say. Plumbing and potholes are not beneath me. I can't wait to start dealing with the public. They're great craic. "I've done all sorts of jobs and I will find my way. If I fall flat on my arse, I still have a first class honours degree. "RTE won't let me back and I probably wouldn't go back anyway because I couldn't go back to the job that I had. But I know there will be mornings when I go out and absentmindedly drive towards Montrose. On autopilot, that's where I'll go." 
