politics
{  
    February 12 2017 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/brendan-oconnor/brendan-oconnor-can-harris-be-our-unlikely-saviour-of-irish-politics-35443641.html }
Consider something for a second. As unlikely as this might sound, what if young Simon Harris is the one we've been waiting for? What if he is the disruptor? What if he is the one who is finally going to change politics in this country? My generation thought we would be different. That our politics would not be like that of our parents. And certainly, things changed a bit. There's a lot of people spouting a lot of hot air and getting furious with each other on the internet. And there are a few more women and a few more guys without ties in the Dail. And there is confidence and supply. But essentially it's the same faces, the same types, the same parties, the same big stitch-up between them all. In Ireland, it's clear now the disruption is not going to come from the left. It certainly won't come from the far right. And it's doubtful that it will come from Sinn Fein, who are basically just working towards becoming the new Fianna Fail. So maybe then, the disruption we seek needs to come from the inside. So what have we got? We have Leo, the charismatic, enigmatic leader. He inspires fierce loyalty in some and he seems vaguely emblematic of some sort of new Ireland, whatever that is. But vague is the word for it. No one is quite sure what Leo is all about, what he stands for politically. But the idea of a new gay Camelot in Ireland is an appealing one. Simon Coveney represents both a more technocratic, and also a more patrician strand in Irish politics. Born for great things, and conscientiously serving his time and working his way up, Coveney is currently being tested. And he has put his head down and taken on the challenge. But Coveney will never be the disruptor. Coveney is a man who believes in the system, and who works within it. He represents responsible technocracy. He is trying to bend existing systems to his will, working within the rules to do the right thing. And then there is Simon Harris. Harris's narrative is that of a political nerd, who has been elevated at a young age due to a certain competence and loyalty. He can string a sentence together. He is plausible. But is he just another chancer? Like Leo, he gets very upset about aspects of the health service. He was heartbroken, that phrase that has been overused to the point of meaninglessness, about the waiting list revelations on Prime Time. So just another spoofer then? But maybe not. For one thing, Simon Harris came into politics through activism. In fact, Simon Harris's introduction to politics was through activism around autism, which was something that affected his family. Nobody understands the levels of waste, inefficiency and ineffectiveness in our health system quite like those with disabilities and their families, loved ones and advocates. Except perhaps those with children with long-term illnesses. So Harris being made the Minister for Health is, in some ways, quite a radical move. While the previous two incumbents in Health have represented the health-professional side of the equation, Harris could be seen to represent more the 'service user' side of things. And being a service user or an advocate brings a very different perspective on the health service, one that is usually based around frustration with the system. For another thing, Simon Harris has made more noise than any minister in years about making managers in the health service responsible for the areas they are supposed to manage. He said again last week that those who don't measure up will be sacked. Then, last Friday the front page of the Irish Independent made it very clear that no manager in the HSE will lose their jobs for incompetence. The worst that can happen is that they can be moved to another job. Presumably on the same pay. So Harris seems to be challenging the notion that the problems of the health service are always about more resources needed, and instead he is suggesting that those in the system need to manage it properly or else face sanctions.  But the system has made it very clear to him that this is not how it works.  There are no real incentives for any manager in the health service to do a good job. Certainly the odd one will get a promotion, which could be a reward for a job well done, but most of them will get their pay rises and their increments anyway, and none of them will lose their jobs, no matter how bad they are at it. It is, in a sense, a denial of human nature. From when human beings are very young we need incentives to make an effort. We are all driven by the carrot and the stick. For HSE management, it was made clear last Friday, there is no stick, no matter what the minister says. So the question now is how radical is Simon Harris really? This is his opportunity. He is a young man, from a new generation, who has a unique understanding of the frustrations of those who deal with the health service. So is he just a spoofer? Or is he prepared to actually follow thought here, and take on decades of bureaucracy? Our generation thought we would wipe out bureaucracy too. Twenty-five years ago in UCC we learnt about how the old Soviet-style bureaucracy was a thing of the past. There were exciting new companies, like Apple, who organised differently, to allow people to excel, to work in teams, to step outside their boxes within the bureaucracy, to be more creative, to think of new solutions to problems, new ways of looking at things. And we all know how that ended up. It meant free food in Google so you worked over lunch and mobile phones and iPads so that we could all be available for work all the time. And somehow these new organisations ended up with even more job titles than the old bureaucracies. Because bureaucracy is a virus, and it is hardwired to survive and protect itself no matter how much the world changes around it. You can keep dismantling it, but like some kind of shape-shifter, it will reassemble itself and put up even more brick walls. Nowhere is this truer than in the public service, those State monopolies that are largely impervious to a changing world. And among those, the health service has proved especially resilient. They try to reorganise it but it's futile because the old systems and people can't be got rid of. So they learn to change shape slightly, but the monolith is preserved, and most importantly, it is impenetrable to outsiders. No one knows where to start attacking it. And again last week, between the Garda and Tusla and the health service, we learnt that many people are incompetent and should not have their jobs. People screw up and do bad things in work all the time. There's need for incentives to get them to try harder. It would be nice to think that Simon has figured that the best way to eat an elephant is one bite at a time and he sees the first bite as being to tackle the notorious layers of management in the HSE. Others have tried and failed to tackle the HSE, but that's no reason not to try again. What does young Simon Harris have to lose? He has many more years in politics and doubtless he will occupy many more positions. If he actually does this, if he actually changes the whole narrative around the health service, if he actually starts to chip away at the edifice, he could change the whole way politics work in this country. He could threaten the whole game, the whole stitch-up between senior civil servants and politicians, all in the game together to get the next pay rise. So what are you, Simon? Are you just a spoofer like some suspect? Or are you the one we've been waiting for?  Are you the disruptor? Is the most radical politician of this generation going to turn out to be a political nerd from the most conservative party in the State? We live in an age where the nerds have changed the world. They are the new captains and kings.  Why shouldn't it be a nerd who disrupts politics in Ireland? Sunday Independent 
