politics
{  
    December 08 2013 12:33 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/gene-kerrigan/forget-keaveney-think-about-callinan-29819346.html }
Wouldn't your heart go out to Colm Keaveney TD? Last week, the poor sod took a momentous step – he, a former Labour Party chairman, joined Fianna Fail. And he found himself at the heart of discussion about the state of Irish politics. For about eight seconds. Then, the Smithwick report into alleged garda collusion with the IRA came out. At which point the media and the political establishment decided it was time for a kick-about with Gerry Adams. And poor Colm's momentous step became as newsworthy as last week's weather forecast. Not to worry – citizens and journalists of a political bent were sure to keep alive discussion of Colm's momentous step. Then Nelson Mandela died. A man at the centre of a massive political struggle to do with human freedom, political courage and the fate not just of a continent but of a significant portion of humanity. The political journalists all ran to their keyboards to mourn. Meanwhile, poor Colm and his momentous step weren't just on the back burner, they were right off the stove. Ah, Colm, we didn't forget you. The Soapbox Academy of Political Footnotes to History has observed your momentous step, and we'll come to you presently. First, though, like Judge Smithwick, we must explore an unusual case of collusion – between Gerry Adams and the media. I'm not suggesting this was a conspiracy to let the Garda Commissioner off the hook, but if it was – well, it couldn't have worked out any better. Judge Smithwick, most agree, seems to have done a professional job of investigation, and he didn't cop out when reporting his conclusions. Now, Gerry Adams could have brought some expertise to any Dail discussion of this matter. "As a long-term IRA activist, with experience at several levels within that organisation, I can assure you that . . ." But, since Mr Adams denies ever being a member of the IRA, he has no more expertise in the matter than you or I. He could, therefore, have grasped a fine opportunity to keep his mouth shut. Instead he criticised the security arrangements surrounding the RUC visit to the South, during which the IRA killed the two officers. Now it's true that those arrangements were long ago criticised by RUC officers and others and were open to criticism by anyone who's watched more than two episodes of Spooks. But, unlike Gerry, the RUC and other critics of the security arrangements were not long-term members of the IRA, with experience at several levels within that organisation. The Sinn Fein leader's intervention allowed the media and political establishment to avoid the potential political crisis involving the Garda Commissioner. Instead, the establishment spent days kicking several shades of crap out of Mr Adams and his comments. What potential political crisis, I hear you ask, involving the Garda Commissioner? Well, Commissioner Callinan apologised for any collusion with the IRA by any member of the force, as found by Judge Smithwick. But he rejected an equally significant part of the report. Judge Smithwick's report expressed his belief that "there prevails in An Garda Siochana today a prioritisation of the protection of the good name of the force over the protection of those who seek to tell the truth. Loyalty is prized above honesty." He referred to: "An ingrained culture of prioritising loyalty to the good name of the force over the legal, moral and ethical obligation owed to give truthful evidence to the Tribunal." This, startlingly, is an allegation that members of the force refused to give truthful evidence to the tribunal. He further said: "The integrity of and confidence in An Garda Siochana can properly be maintained only if suggestions of inappropriate or illegal conduct by members are taken seriously, transparently and thoroughly investigated and, above all, not tolerated or ignored on the basis of some misguided sense of loyalty to the force or to its members." Judge Smithwick went further. His life experience, he said, told him that this culture is not confined to the police force. "The culture of failing adequately to address suggestions of wrongdoing, either for reasons of political expediency or by virtue of misguided loyalty, has been a feature of life in this State." Judge Smithwick, in short, set the failings of the garda culture firmly within the failings of the political culture within which it exists. And who, considering honestly what has happened within the political, business, banking and even judicial culture could deny his point? With this report in our hands, who can possibly deny that there's a culture of loyalty before honesty, not just in the police, but in the political parties and further afield? If we think merely of the failure of Fianna Fail to deal with the Haughey corruption, until it poisoned the party: the failure to deal with the origins of Bertie Ahern's dollar and sterling deposits. The failure of Fine Gael to deal with Lowry and related matters. The failure of Labour to deal with the Gilmore/US embassy controversy. The failure of Sinn Fein to deal with the "I was never a member" farce. What was the garda response to Judge Smithwick's conclusions? "I have read those comments," said Garda Commissioner Callinan. "I have to say that the police force that is described is not the police force that I lead. Everything we do in An Garda Siochana is designed to establish the truth." The Garda Commissioner – in all sincerity, honestly holding his views – publicly rejected the Judge's conclusions. In his own words, he can't even recognise the description of the culture Judge Smithwick discovered within the force. How can this Commissioner initiate the reforms the judge indicates are necessary, if the integrity and reputation of the force are to be restored? Already, one Cabinet member has agreed with Judge Smithwick that there is a job to be done within the force: "I think what has to happen now," said Leo Varadkar, "is the Garda Commissioner in particular needs to make sure that the culture of the gardai is always to root out the bad apples, and to demand honesty and probity." Can the Cabinet accept portions of Judge Smithwick's report, as the Commissioner has done, and reject others? If it accepts the conclusions, and believes there's a reforming job to be done – and evidence of the need for reform has been glaring, long before Smithwick – can it have confidence that Mr Callinan, who cannot see that such a job needs to be done, is the man to do it? Indeed, does the Cabinet recognise Judge Smithwick's description of the force? Judge Smithwick engaged in an exhaustive investigation into the murder of two police officers in 1989. The IRA killed them, he found, and there was garda collusion. He found the force did not adequately investigate claims of collusion. He further found that there exists within the force today a culture of loyalty above honesty. He found that this culture exists within a wider culture in which a failure to properly inquire has been "a feature of life in this state". It's easy to get into a moral lather about Gerry Adams. It's much more difficult to confront the culture identified by Judge Smithwick. Yet, if anyone gives a damn about the killing of those two officers, and the culture that failed them and us, we need less of the moral lather, and we need to accept Smithwick, with all its implications, and act on the report – or wallow in the culture of denial. Now, to more important matters. It seems to me that Colm Keaveney's momentous step . . . (continued on page 94). Sunday Independent 
