politics
{ Darragh Gannon 
    July 16 2017 05:23 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/the-strange-rebirth-of-ireland-after-the-rising-35935061.html }
One hundred years ago, on July 11, 1917, Eamon de Valera, the senior surviving commandant of the 1916 Rising, was declared victor in the East Clare by-election, defeating his opponent by 5,010 votes to 2,035. De Valera emerged from the Ennis courthouse to a "tornado of cheers" from the crowd. Enthusiastic supporters waved autograph books, uniformed Volunteers chanted The Soldier's Song, while election campaigners marketed republican badges. Tricolour flags coloured the scene. 
Close
 A Joseph McGuinness election poster from South Longford / East Clare marked the third successive, and most significant, victory of Sinn Fein over the Irish Parliamentary Party since the Rising. How had Irish politics changed between 'Sinn Fein rebellion' and Sinn Fein election? Artefacts and objects present exciting new sources for understanding the emergence and expansion of this 'new' nationalist movement in 1917. The executed leaders of the Rising were given a political afterlife in the summer of 1916. The Catholic tradition of the Month's Mind Mass for the dead brought members of the public to churches across the capital in late May. Ritual attendance at these ceremonies involved the purchase of Mass cards, recital of prayers and displays of reverence towards the deceased.  "Public sympathy," the RIC Inspector General noted frustratingly, "has been stimulated by the sale of photographs of the rebel leaders." Images of the widows and children left behind by the Rising's dead, published in the Catholic Bulletin, evoked further sympathy. Roger Casement's conversion to Catholicism on the day of his execution at Pentonville Prison in London (on August 3), meanwhile, enshrined him as another nationalist martyr.  
Close
 Eamon de Valera election material from Ennis / Shrines to the Rising also came in the form of accessories and materials. Members of the public were increasingly seen to wear tricolour buttons, pins and badges, employees were noted to dress in republican colours - meanwhile, GAA teams sported green, white and orange jerseys.  Sinn Fein was definitely "in" during the summer of 1916. Both participants and observers of this emerging trend referred to it as a popular political movement.  Ernie O'Malley wrote in On Another Man's Wound of the "strange rebirth" of politics in late 1916: "it was manifest in flags, badges, songs, speech, all seemingly superficial signs." CS Andrews commented similarly of a nascent movement: "these little badges…evoked mutual recognition and sympathy among a large section of public opinion". Writing of public opinion on August 14, the RIC Inspector General estimated that more than 36,000 people were broadly sympathetic to the rebels, but reported concernedly "about 7,000 persons… [who] have been noticed wearing Irish republican and mourning badges." The purchase and display of 'Sinn Fein' materials, he considered, was sufficiently widespread to be considered "organised disloyalty". This was particularly significant in the ongoing context of the World War.  The rigours of the Defence of the Realm Act prohibited the holding of political meetings, the carrying of arms or the publication of seditious literature. Material culture indeed provided a means to circulate political dissent across the Irish world.  Between October 14-22, the American-based Irish Relief Fund opened a bazaar at Madison Square Garden, in which Irish-American patrons were encouraged to purchase artefacts of the Rising. Buying into the Sinn Fein movement provided the cultural resources to develop a collective form of political protest in late 1916. The North Roscommon by-election of February 1917 was cumulative and confirmative of the change in popular politics which had materialised since the Rising. The death of the IPP's James Joseph O'Kelly created an opening for an alternative nationalist candidate to run against the Irish Parliamentary Party.  Count George Plunkett, significantly, was nominated by local activists. Plunkett's candidacy and campaign were symbolic of this "new nationalism". Although widely cited as the "Sinn Fein contestant", Plunkett ran as an independent, acquiring support from a spectrum of alternative nationalists, including recently returned Frongoch internees such as Michael Collins.  His platform was built around criticisms of the Irish Parliamentary Party and the British state.  Voting for Plunkett, it was argued, was a vote of solidarity with his family's 1916 sacrifice. Constituents were identified, and self-identified, with Plunkett's candidacy, through displays of material culture. Kevin O'Shiel, one of his campaigners, noted the proliferation of tricolour buttons and badges at Plunkett's meetings; his platforms were draped by tricolour flags in contrast to the IPP candidate's green Home Rule flag, while tricolours were flown from the cars of celebrating supporters travelling back to Dublin.  These scenes followed Plunkett's successful polling of 3,022 votes, to the nearest candidate's 1,708.  Only after his by-election victory did Plunkett announce a policy of abstention from Westminster. John Dillon's speech in the House of Commons, on the part of the Irish Party, neatly bespoke politics in Ireland since the Rising: "the British government have been manufacturing Sinn Feiners by tens of thousands". The popularity of the 'Sinn Fein' brand, however, was not sold on all advanced nationalists. The mercurial Count Plunkett had designs on leading an alternative, republican organisation - the Liberty League.  Among the remaining 1916 prisoners at Lewes jail, meanwhile, Eamon de Valera expressed concern for any "reversion to the old Sinn Fein political movement". However, the emerging Sinn Fein party, nominally under Arthur Griffith's leadership, was becoming a skilled electioneering machine.  This would be in evidence during the South Longford by-election in May. The death of Irish Parliamentary Party MP John Phillips on April 2 prompted an almost immediate response from a group of advanced nationalists (including Plunkett, Collins and Griffith), to select Joseph McGuinness, the Longford-born Lewes prisoner, as the Sinn Fein candidate.  The party also evidenced an increasingly sophisticated approach to electioneering: pamphlets, posters, postcards, journals.  Perhaps the most influential example of the party's propaganda arrived on polling day itself, when organisers reprinted the Archbishop of Dublin's denunciation of the IPP on partition, in the form of Sinn Fein handbills. In a remarkably tight election, McGuinness polled just 37 more votes than the Irish Party candidate. His victory, however, was significant for its solidification of Sinn Fein as the party of opposition to the Irish Parliamentary Party.  McGuinness and the remaining 1916 prisoners were returned to Dublin on June 17. A year after the Rising, they were feted as heroes by crowds of 10,000 across the capital.  Among the arrivals was  Eamon de Valera, the new Sinn Fein nomination for the East Clare by-election.  The vacancy had arisen following the tragic death of William Redmond, John Redmond's brother, at the Battle of Messines Ridge 10 days earlier.  Assessing de Valera during this period, his biographers Lord Longford and TP O'Neill commented: "politics and soldiering were not yet fully sorted out in his mind".  De Valera would blur the lines between militant and constitutional politics during the East Clare by-election campaign.  Speaking from platforms he declared "you have no enemy but England" but later advised that "every vote you give now is as good as the crack of a rifle in proclaiming your desire for freedom". The iconography of military leader was carefully cultivated. De Valera featured in Volunteer uniform in election material, while he himself frequently addressed crowds in full military regalia.  On the announcement of his victory on July 11, armed Irish Volunteers paraded past de Valera. By the end of July, 336 Sinn Fein clubs had been established across Ireland. "Sinn Fein," Michael Laffan has written, "was the fad or the craze of 1917."  Misapplied to the Easter rebels, the 'Sinn Fein' label gradually evolved from a fashionable form of political protest to an influential form of party politics. In the emergence and expansion of the 'new' nationalist movement, objects mattered. Darragh Gannon is the author of Proclaiming A Republic published by Irish Academic Press which accompanies the free exhibition 'Proclaiming A Republic' at the National Museum in Collins Barracks Sunday Independent 
