politics
{  
    November 11 2012 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/were-tiring-of-temerity-and-need-to-see-results-28894880.html }
Despite his schmoozing, the Finance Minister has yet to deliver a deal with our EU masters, writes John Drennan No matter what way they spin it, egg is now strewn across the Government's face over the great bankers' pension debacle. And surprisingly, the man who is most busy wiping a glutinous mess off his chin is not the 'Dear Leader' Enda. Instead, the current occupant of the political ducking stool is our Finance Minister, who dismissed the possibility that our bankers could be forced to reduce their pensions with a worldly disdain. The error was all the more surprising, given the status Mr Noonan has acquired as the one Fine Gael minister who is irreplaceable. Of course, in politics there are always alternatives. But ironically, with the possible exception of Leo Varadkar (sorry, Richard Bruton), they come from the Joan Burton/ Ruairi Quinn Labour wing of the Grumpy Old Men and Women -- and that would be politically unfeasible. And even Joan would struggle to match the metamorphosis where FG's gnarled survivor from the political knife-fights of the Eighties has become this administration's equivalent of Brian Lenihan. Within the private power structures of the Government, the political implosion of not so Cute Old Phil means the Finance Minister has secured the role of being the Taoiseach's trusted consigliere to such an extent that some irreverent souls speculate about how the Finance Minister has become Enda's brain. Other, even less deferential newer TDs, sometimes even dare to suggest that Enda is actually Noonan's smiling, deferential puppet. Before anyone gets too excited it should be noted that the Finance Minister's status is helped by the fact that like the best of mafia lieutenants Mr Noonan is seen to be a man who no longer possesses leadership ambitions. However, such rare political asceticism does not mean that the growing importance of Master Noonan is not politically dangerous for Kenny in other regards. For now, almost uniquely amongst a Government that evokes an increasingly chilly response from its disdainful citizenry, Noonan has become the comfort blanket of the nation. Within a State that is becoming divided between possessor and outlier classes, Noonan is seen as being a grandfatherly, straight-talking honest broker. Though voters do not actively dislike Enda, they suspect that he is a bit of 'an idiot abroad' on economic matters. Of course, Noonan is a tad conservative but after years of bombast and bluster the one thing our disillusioned electorate craves is the sort of stability provided by the Captain Mainwaring school of bank managers who would have fainted at the sight of a 100 per cent mortgage. As individual ministers are submerged by their ministries -- and in some cases by their own perennial political failings -- Noonan, Burton (and to a lesser extent Kenny) are the last high-profile ministers who retain the respect of the electorate. The problem with this, however, is that should Noonan forfeit the support of the voters, the Government will begin to become alarmingly detached from the electorate. On one level this makes Noonan's apparent blunder in being so timorous over the banking debacle all the more difficult to comprehend. However, any close analysis of his essential political persona means we should not be quite so surprised. The description of Noonan, in reverent tones, as the Government's chief -- if not only -- strategist is undoubtedly correct. But few, particularly among his own, look as closely at the actual strategy the Finance Minister is following as they perhaps should. One of Noonan's most respected political qualities is his wily capacity to lower expectations until passivity resembles activism. Nothing epitomises this more than the ongoing march through the desert towards some imagined resolution of our banking-debt crisis. Those who have watched the progress of this fiscal trench warfare are less than surprised that the initial hopes that Kenny's 'seismic' courtship would be consummated by October are still frustrated. Since coming into office Noonan may have become the Finance Minister who is never at home but, increasingly, all these 'whistle-stop' tours across Europe are failing to convince -- because a deal never appears on the table. Up until recently, his ongoing failure to secure this Holy Grail did not upset anyone too much. Instead, a people who are terribly short on self-confidence were strangely relieved when our man returned to tell us the Germans were quite impressed with us now. However, that honeymoon period is ending and the Finance Minister's temerity is beginning to grate. Of course, it is a wise thing in a domestic and EU fiscal landscape that is littered with every conceivable variant of economic landmine not to kick every sleeping dog. But under the Finance Minister's all-encompassing ethos of 'careful now' an awful lot of dozing fiscal mongrels -- from mortgage debt, banking debt, Croke Park, bondholders, mandarin salaries and banking pensions -- are nestling on pillows that have been fluffed up by the sweating taxpayers. And significantly, Noonan's 'reform, no, don't fancy that' strategy is fostering a growing level of factionalism in a country where even the rabbits in the fields know something is rotten in the State. In such sickly political circumstances, the only thing that can facilitate the return of national cohesion is the surgical excision of the various cancers that afflict the State. Instead, under the guidance of our 'wise old owl' of a Finance Minister, the Government's response has consisted of a debilitating caution where the Grumpy Old Men wish only to restore our current sinking ship of pirates to the same condition as that of 1997 from whence we set out towards the current crisis. Sadly, the downside to this fearful politics is that we are already, after less than two years, edging towards the denouement in Animal Farm where the poor shivering Irish voters look at the coalition pigs and the Fianna Fail humans and wonder what on earth the difference between the toxic characters is. If the electorate comes to believe that Noonan, far from being the national grandfather, is the willing facilitator of a toxic political troika of 'dumb' austerity, the absence of reform within the State and appeasement of EU bankers, support may melt away from this administration. Limerick's 'Comeback Elder Lemon' would be wise to realise the days of confining your ambitions to the current dead politics of 'careful now' are coming to a close. As we face into a Budget that may yet evolve into the fiscal equivalent of the child discovering that there really is a monster hiding under the bed, the electorate will be able to accept, and might even be secretly relieved, to find out that the Taoiseach is the Finance Minister's puppet. They will, however be far less impressed if they discover that Noonan far from being a puppet-master is one of the puppets too. Should that happen, the question Noonan will have to answer is, who exactly is pulling your strings, Michael? But there again, perhaps we already know. Sunday Independent 
