politics
{ John Drennan,  Daniel McConnell and Jerome Reilly 
    November 22 2014 11:47 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/politics/a-political-earthquake-30766626.html }
The water charges revolt has led to a seismic shift in national politics which seems to be unstoppable this weekend. The political maelstrom is forcing lines to be formed around a new centre-right political party; a formal alliance of Sinn Fein and left-wing parties; and a potential coalition between Fine Gael and Fianna Fail. The Sunday Independent can reveal that Lucinda Creighton is preparing for her new political party launch early in the New Year - by February at the latest. However, a Red C opinion poll with the purpose of measuring the popularity of potential leaders has found Shane Ross to be the favourite ahead of Ms Creighton. An alliance between Sinn Fein and left-wing parties with the support of Siptu, the country's largest union with 200,000 members, now plans to maximise the popular revolt with a street campaign against the Universal Social Charge (USC). Also last week, Fine Gael's former strategist Frank Flannery said that Fine Gael and Fianna Fail need to "join together to form a new party". Mr Flannery told the Sunday Independent: "The people of Ireland have written the Civil War conflict out of Irish politics. It's up to the political slow learners to follow.'' The success of street protests against water charges, which led to a dramatic Government U-turn last week, is causing barely concealed panic among the established parties. Last night, Health Minister Leo Varadkar conceded that the Coalition had lost the confidence of the public and would not be re-elected unless it changed its political strategy. He said economic success alone would not secure the second term for the Coalition: "From now on we will pay much more attention to public confidence and trust.'' But Jack O'Connor, general president of Siptu, told the Sunday Independent that Labour's minority position in Government has been "ruthlessly exploited" by Fine Gael. According to the Red C poll, which was commissioned by supporters of Shane Ross, the Dublin South TD is the favourite to lead a new political party. Asked their leader preference, the nationwide poll of 1,005 voters found: Shane Ross (22pc); Lucinda Creighton (18pc); Roisin Shortall (13pc); Stephen Donnelly (9pc); Michael McDowell (8pc); Declan Ganley (4pc); Peter Mathews (1pc); others (1pc); none of these (19pc); and no interest in a new party (8pc). Among voters who say they intend to vote Independent, Mr Ross extends his lead to 30pc while Ms Creighton remains at 18pc. Mr Ross has more support among working-class voters (22pc) than Ms Creighton (15pc) but Ms Creighton has more support (21pc) than Mr Ross (19pc) among middle- class voters. Younger voters and women voters favour Ms Creighton. Against a backdrop of continuing anti-water charges protests, SIPTU's Mr O'Connor has said that there has been a "seismic shift in Irish politics" and says his union will now begin an agitation against the USC. In an interview with the Sunday Independent, he also said that a left-wing alliance of Labour, Sinn Fein and socialist Independents, behind a concerted campaign to abolish the USC, could win power, but probably not before the next General Election. "It's not possible to do it while Labour is in Government and I wouldn't advocate that Labour should leave the Government," he said. Mr Flannery, meanwhile, has warned that a collapse in support for the two Civil War parties means a merger of Fianna Fail and Fine Gael is "inevitable". The idea of a possible coalition between the two parties was floated last weekend by Mr Varadkar who said: "Coalition with Fianna Fail would be a little like a same-sex marriage: it would seem wrong at first but would probably work out fine in the end." Yesterday, Mr Varadkar told the Sunday Independent: ''2014 has been a good year for Ireland. Employment, exports, average incomes and retail sales are all up. Unemployment, the deficit, emigration, the debt and mortgage arrears are all down. But ironically, for the Government parties it's been a terrible year.'' Yesterday, Foreign Affairs Minister Charles Flanagan said: "The debate on the water charges clearly shows us the terms of the shape of our future under a Sinn Fein/Independent alliance." Meanwhile, a separate Red C Poll in today's Sunday Business Post has found that support for Fine Gael has dropped four points to 22pc in a month, putting them neck and neck with Sinn Fein (22pc). Support for Labour (8pc) and Fianna Fail (18pc) is unchanged. Independents and others are up two points to 30 pc. Sunday Independent 
