politics
{  
    September 28 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/is-politics-short-changed-if-its-all-down-to-business-26367366.html }
IRELAND is caught up in the middle of a puritanical witch-hunt against private money in politics. The zeal with which this is being conducted is exaggerated and disproportionate, and is having a damaging effect on our political system and on democracy itself. The Bertie Ahern episode will only serve to make us even more averse to the presence of private money in politics. Let's admit at the outset that there are some good reasons for this aversion. Corruption Corrupt politicians are a fact of life, and it is chiefly private money that makes them corrupt. There are other reasons. Even when a politician doesn't do a direct favour for a benefactor, we wonder whether the existence of benefactors creates a mentality of dependence. We fear that politicians or parties who become dependent on rich benefactors to meet their political expenses will ensure that their policies suit the benefactors, even if the benefactors never explicitly ask for anything in return for their money. Private money in politics also offends our sense of fair play. Why should rich people have more influence over the political system than poorer people, we ask? But here is a brutal and immovable fact of politics: political parties can't run on air. They need money and the money has to come from somewhere. In Ireland, because of our puritanism about private money, it is now coming increasingly from the State, to the tune of millions each year. Our political parties are increasingly dependent for their continued existence not on private money, but public money. Naively, we think this doesn't create any problems. We imagine that if our political parties are being funded out of the public purse, rather than by wealthy individuals, there can be no possibility of corruption. But this is true only to the extent that it rules out personal corruption. It ignores the fact that bankrolling the political system from the public purse can actually be highly damaging to democracy. The main effect of bankrolling the political system with public money is that it locks in the advantage of the already established parties making it extremely difficult for new parties to break into the system. Advantage A political party can only access public money in large quantities when it has managed to win a decent share of the popular vote. However, and here is the catch, to win such a share, you generally need money, private money, and lots of it. But given the restrictions now placed on private money, coming by it in sufficient quantities to give yourself a chance in an election isn't easy, and while it's true that local candidates can make a break-through, and often do, political parties with national ambitions don't. If the PDs were starting off today the restrictions on private donations would make it far more difficult for them to get off the launching pad. Is it really to the advantage of democracy that it is more difficult than ever for new parties to make a real national impact? Is our democracy better as a result? Or have we become somehow less democratic, the system less fair given the advantage large amounts of public money gives the established parties by effectively turning them into political versions of Semi-States? The restrictions on private money have the effect of increasing the power of the media. The harder it is for a political party to by-pass the media and get its message directly to the public, through, for example, political advertising, the more reliant it becomes on the media. And the more reliant a party becomes on the media, the more it feels obliged to dance to the tune of producers, editors, correspondents and presenters. No-one elected journalists, so why should they have such power? Indeed, what sane person is going to argue that increasing media influence over politics makes us more democratic, or more politically pure, much less decreases the power of private interests over politics? So it seems that we need to rein in our our puritanical aversion to private money in politics. Public money has its own way of corrupting the system and we badly need to wake up to this fact. PS. Several readers have been lambasting me in the letters page for daring to point out in last week's column that secular ideologies, chiefly Nazism and Communism, were responsible for the deaths of 150m people in the last century. We're neither Communists nor Nazis, the readers protested, objecting to having to take the fall for these ideologies. Fair enough. But the principle aim of secularists is to relegate religion to the private sphere and in the 20th century this aim was pretty much achieved, in Europe at least. Did peace and goodwill among all men ensue as a result, and as they predicted? No. The 20th century was instead the bloodiest in history, as a matter of record, the ideologies that did the blood-letting were secular. Email: dquinn@iol.ie 
