politics
{  
    September 26 2010 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/a-man-who-can-make-us-believe-26683975.html }
Watching Michael McDowell's contribution to RTE's Ireland's Greatest series on Monday night was a stark reminder of everything that is missing in Irish politics. Both the subject of the programme and the storyteller exhibited the very qualities that we are all crying out for in this country. Many of us felt that John Hume was a shoe-in to win the Ireland's Greatest title after Miriam O'Callaghan's passionate outing on The Late Late Show, but since Monday everyone I've spoken to says they'll be voting for Michael Collins, even without seeing the rest of the series. It was almost painful to be reminded of what a remarkable man, among other remarkable men, Collins was. Envy for our ancestors was the primary emotion elicited by vignettes of Collins speaking in public, surrounded by thousands of people, without a PA, but making up for it with passion. We were reminded, too, of Collins's competence -- how he went away and learnt his trade -- both as revolutionary and statesman. Embedding himself in the heart of the empire, finding out how these things tick, and all the time studying warfare, organisation and politics. He coupled his learnt knowledge of how politics and empires tick with an innate knowledge of what makes people tick. But communication and competence would have been nothing without the sheer force of Collins's patriotism. His passion, not to die for his country, but to make a country worth living in, was almost alien to us, given what we're used to these days. Collins was a giant compared to the men who aspire to be leaders in this country now. He was inspirational, charismatic, powerful, but above all, selfless. Collins was devoted to a higher cause. While the religiosity with which our forefathers imbued their political beliefs was not always healthy, and was often what led to the irrationality that allowed them to dehumanise and thus butcher each other, Collins seemed to find a place between believing in nothing but yourself and believing in too much. Collins had a faith and a higher calling, but it stopped short of the belief in a blood sacrifice. Collins may have seen killing as a grim necessary evil now and then for a greater good, but martyrdom and bloodshed never became an end in itself for him. Collins's patriotism is of course best remembered in his signing of the treaty. This was his ultimate act of putting country, and actual political convictions about what was best for his country, ahead of his own career. Not only did Collins believe he was putting at stake his career and his reputation when he signed the treaty; he believed he was putting at stake his own life. It's all a far cry from, say, a bunch of senior politicians coming out to defend Brian Cowen for his "hoarseness" last week. We've become used to this by now, that convenient untruths are the language of politics in Ireland, that our politicians skirt around the question and obfuscate in whatever way they need to in order to get through another day. And if they get through another day, they are one day closer to getting through another Dail term, which makes- them a little bit closer to making it to an election, and the longer they can hold off that election, the happier they all are. Because, who knows, things might be a bit better next year. And it's not just the Government that's taking it one day at a time and not rocking the boat -- the opposition are at it, too. They no more want to become the Government now than anyone in Fianna Fail wants to take on the leadership. And none of them wants to be one of the many casualties an election will see. So what is good for the country needs to go on the backburner for now. But it wasn't just Collins who made you nostalgic for how politicians used to be. McDowell reminded us of a more recent time when politicians seemed to have a passion for more than holding on to their seat. McDowell was appealing on Monday night for many reasons. On the most superficial level, the fact that he has either had laser surgery or got contacts meant that he has lost those awful glasses. Suddenly he no longer looks like a Nazi from an Indiana Jones film. The piggy look is gone, and instead we had an urbane, reasonably attractive (everything's relative) man who could have been an off-duty architect, rather than the uptight accountant he resembled before. He seemed less tetchy and defensive than he seemed during the latter days of the PDs. And he clearly had a passion for the story he was telling, and he told us a story, an inspiring story, something we could believe in, and he communicated it well, and he seemed relaxed. And you realised that what McDowell was being was a salesman. He sold Collins to us all over again. And he did it well, even managing to square with himself and with us some of the more unsavoury aspects of Collins's career. And you realised, watching him, that this is something we are missing in politics now -- good storytellers, good salesmen, people who can make us believe. And you realised that what McDowell was demonstrating was actually leadership. He led us on a journey through the origins of our republic, and we followed him. You could be churlish and say that if McDowell admires so much the unselfish patriotism of Collins, then why doesn't he now answer his country's call? But it's possibly a bit more complex than that. Watching Collins the other night, you realised that this country needs a hero. But McDowell is probably not populist enough to be that hero. You can't really choose to become a hero. The people choose their heroes. Right now, the closest we have in politics to the heroic is Brian Lenihan. Last Thursday's opinion poll showed this again -- he is a sort of a people's champion for all kinds of reasons. We believe in Lenihan, and he should probably lead the country -- at least for a while. But McDowell has a role to play, too. Most people agree that we need another political party. When support for Labour apparently doubles overnight just because it is not Fianna Fail or Fine Gael, then you know people want change. When support for a party whose policies no one is actually sure of goes through the roof, then we can only imagine what the support would be for a real alternative. We need radical change and reform of our political system, and it's not going to happen without a new force in Irish politics. We have shown that we have no appetite for taking to the streets about our current dissatisfaction, probably because most of us know that the veneer of constitutional politics in this country is still young and thin and underneath it there still lurk many sinister forces. We know what awaits us if we take a step back from the ballot box for which we fought so hard. So there is general agreement that, no matter how dissatisfied we are, we don't trust unrest or the forces that would attempt to take advantage of unrest. So a change in the very DNA of the political system here, a change that will infect every cell in it, every attitude of every rural TD, needs to come from within the system. But we know, too, that those in charge of the system will never really reform it. What we need is a fundamental realignment of politics in this country, a new type of politics and a new type of politician. And to many people, McDowell is the man to orchestrate the infiltration by the forces of realism of our unreal political bubble. Whatever you think about him as a person, he at least has passion, convictions, doesn't need to hold on to his seat at all costs, has lived and can live in the outside world, and has a sometimes-kamikaze willingness to say what he thinks rather than court popularity. But McDowell has been burnt badly and humiliatingly by Irish politics. He has had to watch as gombeens and slieveens and hillbillies all over the country got Dail seats while he was rejected. And he does just fine without politics, probably making a better living in real life than he was when he was a TD. So it would not be an easy thing for McDowell to put himself up there again. He would face ridicule and abuse from the public and the media, and he may still believe that he would again face rejection. Indeed, maybe it is no coincidence that McDowell looked so relaxed on Monday night -- a few years away from Leinster House have clearly been good to him. And it may not be good for McDowell to go back in there, but that's what he needs to do. If he truly values selfless patriotism, he needs to come back and try and start a third force, one that could be pivotal in changing Irish politics. He has done it before and he could do it again. And maybe what he needs to do to ensure a good reception is to explain, to communicate, that he is not doing this for himself or his pocket or his vanity, to convince people he doesn't need it but he'll do it because someone has to. And maybe then Michael McDowell will be embraced, not even back into a career in politics, but certainly as a one-term catalyst to break the mould again and move things on. And when he has gone through the stagnant pool that is Irish politics like a bottle of Domestos, then he can retire again, his unfinished business finished, he having been true to himself and his country and ideals of his hero, Collins. Lenihan and McDowell. The hero and the reformer. I'd vote for that. Wouldn't you? Sunday Independent 
