politics
{ John Drennan 
    April 03 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/mums-the-word-for-a-worried-mr-martin-26219269.html }
LAST week two major political events - and no, the smoking gun in the Dail bar is not one of them - went a long way towards explaining why there is such a lack of respect for politics today. As the Dail Sub Committee on Justice, Equality and Women's Rights issued its response to the Barron report, the smallest boon which the unfortunate victims of the Dublin/Monaghan bombings deserved was a brief moment of rough honesty. They should have been told that there can never be justice for the victims of a terrorist atrocity. Instead they got the sort of soft answers and easy promises which will only increase the misery of the survivors as they are plunged into a wilderness of inquiries which will achieve nothing. The inanity of the response was epitomised by its decision to call for an inquiry into the activities of an unnamed man who stayed in the Four Courts Hotel between May 15 and 17, 1974 - no we're not making it up - and its other demand for an inquiry into the Garda investigation of 1974. Since most of the main players in the latter are dead all we can do is to hope the inquiry has a plentiful supply of clairvoyants and Ouija boards. The popularity of the new politics of soft smiles and vague answers goes a long way towards explaining why Micheal Martin has slipped past Brian Cowen in the heir apparent stakes. The Midas touch which has suddenly adhered itself to Micheal Martin was epitomised by the sight of the Opposition's lead spokesperson on Justice becoming the first casualty of Micheal Martin's new anti-smoking dispensation. That's the sort of silky touch we associate with the cutest and most cunning section of the Bertie Ahern handbook on politics. We should not be surprised by Martin's elevated status. The Health Minister always appeared to have the sort of qualities which would take full advantage of the new celebrity politics whose dominant impulse consists of large dishes of sanctimony garnished with a light drizzle of stupidity. However, up to three months ago Martin still had not fulfilled his potential. When tough decisions had to be made on issues such as the Lindsay inquiry political observers noted Micheal Martin's very being went into meltdown. You could almost feel the self pity rising from his boots as the ears flattened in a manner which was not disimilar to a frightened rabbit. Sweat would begin to bead his furrowed brow whilst even his eyes took on a piteous aspect. Within the Cabinet real political bruisers such as Charlie McCreevy left poor Micheal with few doubts as to the reality of his status. For a while the consultants openly defied him and Michael Smith humiliated him. In politics, and particularly Irish politics, everything is flux. Martin's new status has nothing to do with any political triumph like the implementation of the Government's health strategy. However, the anti-smoking legislation has elevated him into a very special position. With one bound the Minister has escaped from all of the failures of his past and been elevated to the position of the great worried mum of Irish politics. In doing so Martin has tapped into the obsession with health which is seen in a thousand television advertisements about the dangers of fridges, barbecues and not washing your hands. However, the Minister's new status transcends these concerns. In a nation which is drowning beneath a great flood plain of self-pity he is our caring psychologist - the political equivalent of Maureen Gaffney or Big Brother's Geoffrey Beattie - who wants nothing more but to save us from ourselves. Being the great worried mum of Irish politics has other benefits. Bertie Ahern's success was built around his capacity to be seen as being 'one of the lads'. However, Micheal possesses another great virtue. This is the quality of empathy for unlike the Victorian dad-style personality which accompanies Cowen the Health Minister is a man who can emote for Ireland. He might not actually be able to do anything about it but it's the sharing of the 'hurt' that counts. This great quality means even his defeats are turned into triumphs. Every failure, from the collapse of the Hanly strategy to the spectacle of Niamh Brennan knocking on the door of his Department asking was there a chance her list of reforms might be implemented, infuses the nation with sympathy rather than anger. It must be the fault of someone else other than worried mum. Brian Cowen might be an intelligent, forensic, thoughtful politician. These, however, are not qualities which are celebrated, or even noticed, in our public discourse. For the moment within FF the heart says Brian Cowen. However, in politics the slaps on the back you receive in the Dail bar only last until the end of night. In the cold light of day the head asks whose face do you want on the posters. Victorian dad or worried mum? What do you think? 
