politics
{  
    March 19 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/religion-still-has-casting-vote-in-us-26253852.html }
Conor Cruise O'Brien on how faith and politics are interlinked in AmericaRELIGION has long been much more salient in American politics than it is... Conor Cruise O'Brien on how faith and politics are interlinked in America RELIGION has long been much more salient in American politics than it is now in any European country. The European consensus has long been that a person's religion is that person's own affair, and that political candidates should not harp on about religion. In America, where religious belief and religious practice are far more general than they are now in most of Europe, it would almost certainly be impossible for a candidate who avowed that he did not believe in any form of religion to be elected to any high political office. In consequence, expressions of religious fervour by political candidates are common form in American elections, particularly in the celebration of electoral victories. Thus, the two candidates who emerged as frontrunners in the present electoral contest George W Bush for the Republicans and Al Gore for the Democrats have both taken care to make known their personal Christian zeal. Asked who his ``favourite political philosopher'' is, Bush declared, ``Christ, because he changed my heart.'' And Gore, when asked what comes to his mind when he is faced with a difficult question, replied, ``The initials WWJD: What would Jesus do?'' Such generalities come trippingly to the tongue of electoral candidates at times like these. That is simple enough. But the actual area where religion and politics overlap, in a hard-fought contest, can be very tricky indeed as George Bush in particular has found. When, after early unexpected defeats at the hands of McCain, Bush was desperately anxious to win South Carolina where Protestant zealots are strong and influential Bush visited Bob Jones University, the sturdiest stronghold of the zealots in question. It is generally agreed that that visit clinched Bush's victory in South Carolina and rescued his campaign from the doldrums. But the trouble is that hisassociation with Bob Jones, most advantageous in South Carolina, could hurt Bush in many other states, where Catholics and Jews and Blacks all targets of Bob Jones are strong and influential and it is bad news to be associated with Bob Jones. For example, the following message is still prominently displayed on the Bob Jones website: ``Catholic Church is not another Christian denomination. It is a satanic counterfeit, an ecclesiastical tyranny over the souls of men, not to bring them to salvation but to hold them bound in sin and so hurl them into eternal damnation. It is the old harlot of the Book of Revelations the Mother of Harlots.'' And so on; not the kind of message, one would imagine, that would go down well in Boston for example or in New York, or in Los Angeles. Yet as the results showed on Super Tuesday, the Bob Jones courtship did Bush surprisingly little harm. In the remainder of the campaign, after having won in South Carolina, Bush set himself to win back Catholic votes, Jewish votes and Black votes, all of which one might have thought had been alienated by the ``Bob Jones'' factor. But not so, it seems. Some damage was probably done in New England, but elsewhere Bush's related courtship of the relevant blocks seemed to have worked well enough. And McCain's attempts to use the Bob Jones factor against Bush seemed to have hurt McCain more than it did Bush. There seems to be a weird sort of pan-religious politics at work. Even the most bigoted forms of Christianity seem to be tolerable, if not fully accepted, to other American Christians. If Catholics are courted where they are strong as in New York and California they don't seem to care much what may be said to happen in areas about which they know little, like South Carolina. So Bush's ``religious'' appeals, even if weirdly dissonant in their regional applications, seem to have paid off quite well for him in the pattern of overall results. These rather sophisticated interactions of religion and politics don't surprise me very much. We have seen such sophisticated interactions in our own politics Jack Lynch was a master in that line. There was only one case in the political life of what is now the Republic where an explicitly Catholic note was publicly struck by a government. This was the message sent to the Pope by the new Interparty Government, in which the most influential figure was Sean McBride, immediately after its formation in 1948. They sent a telegram to the Pope, desiring ``to repose at the feet of your Holiness the assurance of our filial loyalty and of our devotion to your August Person as well as our firm resolve to be guided in all our work by the teaching of Christ, and to strive for the attainment of a social order in Ireland based on Christian principles''. There was never a message quite like that before, from any Irish government, and there was never to be one again. That Government crashed after a few years mainly because of the crass and blatant overplay of the Catholic card. As long as the Catholic Church had strong influence over the electorate, the card in question continued to be played in subtle and deniable ways by Fianna Fáil. That influence has now entered into a period of terminal decline, and if that card is now played at all, it is only in subliminal ways and in rural districts. Strong though our ties with the US may be, we are today, in the matter of the relation between politics and religion, much less like Americans and much more like our fellow Europeans. 
