politics
{ STEPHEN McGRATH 
    July 09 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/burke-informed-ahern-of-fund-after-by-election-26143653.html }
EX-MINISTER Ray Burke told Taoiseach Bertie Ahern of the existence of his political fund on the night of the by-election for his seat, he told the Flood Tribunal yesterday. Mr Burke said about a month after he had told the Taoiseach he had contacted a Mr Richardson who was at that time head of the fund-raising effort on behalf of Fianna Fail. The witness said he informed Mr Richardson of the existence of the fund. He did not inform either the Taoiseach or Mr Richardson of the extent of the fund. He had informed the Taoiseach in a corner of the Lord Mayor pub in Swords. That was March of 1998. He had informed the Taoiseach of the fund in the course of a wide-ranging discussion. Because it was a broad discussion and a chat in a pub it later dawned on him he had better inform the fund-raiser officially. About a month later he rang Mr Richardson and told him. Mr Burke said he would not have expected the Taoiseach or any other individual to discuss at a national level their own personal fund-raising. It was an unfortunate fact of political life that it was necessary to secure funds to continue with political life. The salaries TDs got were inadequate to keep the level of demand that they had to meet. Deputies would never discuss their personal fund-raising with headquarters. ``It would never be done that way because if it was done that way quite frankly headquarters would probably try to secure some of it,'' said Mr Burke. He told the tribunal chairman he would do the nation a great service if he mentioned fund-raising in his report. Fund-raising left itself open to the type of allegations that he was subject to. The question of how politics was funded was something that had to be tackled. John Gallagher SC, for the tribunal, asked Mr Burke when and from what funds he had cleared off monies he had borrowed from the Ulster Bank on or about August 4, 1989. Mr Burke said it was from an account in the Lombard & Ulster Bank which had been lodged on June 6 and 9. The total lodgement at the time was £36,100. It gained interest until December 6 and the sum transferred was £37,278. Mr Gallagher asked Mr Burke if boththe monies sumhad been political donations to him. He said the sums had been received by him in the course of a general election as political donations for use in the general elections and for his on-going political work. Mr Burke said in his political life he had taken the lesson from the best coach he had available to him, his late father, who used to say the campaign started the morning after the count. ``That was the way I operated, so my political campaign was not three weeks, it was from the morning after the count. So my political campaign was an on-going political exercise,'' said Mr Burke. Mr Gallagher asked Mr Burke if on December 6, 1989 his own personal overdraft had been reduced and that he had personally benefited from the funds lodged into it. The witness: ``My life was seamless to the extent of politics. I was a politician from the time I got up in the morning and went to bed at night.'' Mr Burke said all of his funds, whether they were Dail salaries or travelling expenses, went into the same fund. He said he ran an overdraft and used the current account for whatever political purposes were going on. He ran up an overdraft and then transferred funds to cover the overdraft.  These were matters that were relevant for discussions between his advisors and the Revenue Commissioners rather than for the tribunal, he said. 
