politics
{  
    July 20 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/political-apathy-at-the-heart-of-middle-america-26181074.html }
The new America seems to have lost interest in politics to a huge and disturbing degree, writes William Rees-MoggTHE New York Times recently published an interview with George Bush junior, who is the Governor of Texas. He is currently the frontrunner for the Republican nomination for President in 2000. For the potential leader of an opposition campaign, the interview he gave was amazingly non-political, but he is probably correct in his judgment of the American mood. There now seem to be no great political issues exciting the American people, and politics is largely discussed in terms of celebrity, when it is discussed at all. There are, of course, political buffs who are fascinated by every detail of the political process, but outside Washington they form a specialised minority. This apathy about politics owes something to the paradox of President Clinton. Americans are mostly content with their President and give him high approval ratings in the job, but they do not admire him personally or in terms of character. His period of office has been one of general prosperity, perhaps the longest period of prosperity the United States has enjoyed in the 20th century. He has, at least, done nothing which interrupted the boom. He has an unfailing gift for the appropriate response on camera, pitched to this American mood. Yet all the scandals have tainted his personal reputation. As an American once said to me: ``I have voted twice to put him in the White House, but I'm not sure I would want to invite him into my own home.'' Hardly anyone sees Bill Clinton as a great President, even though he does the job in a way that is professionally satisfactory. Naturally this contrast makes Americans think of him in terms of celebrity and scandal, rather than of policies or ideals. This mood will not last for ever, because no boom lasts for ever. Sooner or later the Greenspan/Clinton boom will come to an end. The economic cycle will turn down, the stock market will suffer a correction, perhaps even a crash, life will become much less easy. When this happens, the American people may turn on their politicians and blame them for disappointed expectations. But this is all still to come and the momentum of confidence is so great that the next recession is probably still some way off. This momentum has now spread into almost all asset values, including the housing market, and it feels good to the American people so long as it lasts. In the current world America is the most successful and the most powerful of human societies. Americans do not spend a lot of time thinking about defence, but the United States is the only surviving defence superpower, with unmatched technology. In economic terms, America has dominated the mass industry of the 20th century, and has now established an equal or even more commanding lead in the information age. The United States has often looked as though it might fail to solve its problems, or might be overtaken. In this century it has proved far more resilient than its critics, its competitors or its enemies. Yet one feels a certain anxiety about the growth of political apathy. It is worrying to see the United States moving into a post-political mood, in which a majority of people may not even bother to vote. It is strange to see how Americans have become political spectators, watching the scandals of their political life as though Washington were a mere soap opera. Of course, many Americans do feel both responsible and disturbed. Constitutional democracy made America a great nation, but democracy will never be safe if Americans start to believe that politics is such a dirty business that it is best left to dirty people.  (The Times, London) 
