politics
{ John Drennan 
    October 18 2014 08:51 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/john-drennan/political-classes-fail-to-spot-growing-moral-crisis-30674802.html }
The problem with the current politics of a- crisis-a-week is that they   can resemble the tale of the boy who cried wolf.  Sadly, this means that when the existential crisis does gallop into town looking for peasants and virgins to devour, no-one actually notices. While you're always reluctant to proclaim that Irish politics is experiencing an existential crisis on the basis of two by-elections and a water charges demonstration, on this occasion, the wolf may be in the political village, given the scenario in Dublin South West - where the big three of Fianna Fail, Fine Gael and Labour secured the support of just over 25pc of the voters. The scenario in Roscommon-South Leitrim, where Fine Gael and Labour secured the votes of less than 25pc of the electorate, is not much prettier. Those who actually realise a great repudiation of conventional politics has occurred, will date the beginning of this development back to 2008. Ever since the weave of the political system was warped by the Mahon Tribunal, a citizenry - whose hearts have been turned fanatic by the absence of hope and an excess of deceit - have lost faith in politics in a remarkably similar manner to the way in which they walked silently away from a once all-powerful Church. Nothing epitomises the collapse in faith in politics more than the Irish Water fiasco. The Leinster House foxes may find it difficult to comprehend, but it is the perceived lies about the role and function of this astonishing creature rather than the tax on water that has infuriated the voters. Of course, it would be crediting Paddy with far more Germanic tendencies than he possesses were we to say that cash is not a factor. However, what has really enraged the citizens is the belief that duplicitous politicians and self-interested mandarins who want to create Irish Water's version of the gold-plated ranks of the civil service, are conspiring against the voters. Again. In that regard, one of the more dramatic features of the by-election was that the voters declared a plague on all political parties. Were it just Fine Gael or Labour or Fianna Fail who suffered, the result could be safely laid in the 'plus ca change . . .' wing of the political hospital. However, in a scenario set up for Sinn Fein to thrive, the voters decided the Shinners were auditioning to join the establishment and ran them out the electoral gate too. The party could just about deal with the Roscommon South-Leitrim result, but the spectacle in Dublin South West where a verbose former MEP, who secured a humble 8.5pc in the Euro elections, gazumped Sinn Fein, wounded the party deeply. The electorate appears to have dismissed Sinn Fein as an establishment party before the poor political suckers ever got a chance to join it. It goes without saying, of course that the fundamental swing, where the electorate is now deliberately seeking out Independents that they can cohere with, has been utterly missed by the Leinster House Lilliputians. Instead, the Coalition stupids and the Fianna Fail equivalents are still engaged in the usual cheerleading and begrudgery. They would do well to realise that the new existential crisis in Irish politics is not about Irish Water, or tax and spend, or what FF did. It is, instead, about the apparent incapacity of our political system and mandarins to treat the voters with civility or respect. Or to put it the other way, Enda - it's about morality, stupid. Sunday Independent 
