politics
{ John Drennan 
    May 24 2009 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/breakout-boyle-has-left-the-greens-cruelly-exposed-26538346.html }
The palpable air of nervousness that surrounded the Greens' Euro election campaign launch was very understandable. It was bad enough that Dan Boyle had gone missing, but the real concern nagging John Gormley is that his entire party could experience a similar fate. The similarities between FF and Sinn Fein are few, but one trait these Irish political Leviathans share is that no one who goes into coalition with them gets out alive. Last week, as John Gormley speculated nervously about the possibility of Fine Gael taking out the Green wing of Garret's lost political children in the same ruthless way they finished off the PDs, it was clear it is not easy being Green any more. Three years ago they were the political equivalent of those Italian bespoke kitchens which were so popular during the Celtic Tiger. However, though the voters ultimately decided that there was too much of the politics of nasty associated with the Sinn Fein brand, and the PDs were simply too uncouth for our sophisticated tastes, the final triumph of the Greens was a close-run thing. They may have been the only small party who managed to fight off the big squeeze from the major political tribes in 2007, but the Greens' lease on the six seats they won is as fragile as the hold the PDs had on the eight they secured in the 'triumph' of 2002. Of course, when they initially came into power any nervousness the Greens may have felt was dissipated by the cover the ornate nature of the coalition Bertie Ahern put together gave them. Last week, however, not even John Gormley's claim that the high point of the Green Party's term in office had been the manner in which 'we led the way in energy efficient light bulbs' could hide the fact the honeymoon was over. The most surprising feature of Dan Boyle's political 'breakout' is that it has been so long in coming. The implosion of the Government's majority means that over the past six months the Green Party has essentially held the balance of power. In better times this would be good news, since their new status means the former Green ingenues are now the political bosses of Fianna Fail in a far more real way than the PDs ever were. Back in 1997 Mary Harney's trembling bottom lip may have created some fraught moments for Bertie Ahern, but the PDs were never able to brandish the threat of political annihilation at FF in the way the Greens can now do. But it is far more likely that Boyle's demarche was informed by the fear among the Greens that the public are starting to blame 'nice' Eamon Ryan, Trevor Sargent and John Gormley for the survival of the most unpopular government in the State's history. However, it was still difficult last week to take Boyle's 'breakout' seriously. If Dan, who is only in public life by the grace and favour of Bertie's decision to appoint him to a Seanad sinecure, has only discovered now that FF has made a mess of the property boom, banking regulation and the public sector, the calibre of our public representatives must be worse than we thought. The heart could only sink further as this was followed up by a comical spat where Brian Cowen cut the legs from under John Gormley and his apparent desire to renegotiate some thing called the Programme for Government. Apparently Mr Cowen's preference was for a review rather than a renegotiation but seeing as the three leaders who negotiated it and the programme itself are in the political boneyard it was hard to see what all of the fuss was about. However, governments have fallen over smaller differences and two other factors will not have eased the nerves of our FF back-benchers. It was bad enough that Boyle's 'breakout' looked like a classic case of 'beginning of the end country'. Ultimately the most surprising feature of it all was that Mr Cowen was apparently taken unawares by the Greens' demands. Once again, as is so often the case with our flying-by-the-seat-of-his-pants Taoiseach, we appeared to be back in 'it wouldn't have happened to Bertie' country. In spite of the best efforts of Eamon Ryan, the mini-soap opera that gathered around Boyle's attempted 'breakout' intensified the morbid atmosphere that is beginning to cover this Government like a shroud. It may well be that a Green Party, which is experiencing a torrid election campaign, was simply trying to box clever by increasing its profile and distancing itself from the Fianna Fail/PD wing of this government. Boyle's 'breakout' may also have been an unsubtle attempt by the Greens to flex their newly acquired political muscle. They would, however, be wise to be careful for, as Michael McDowell found out the hard way, sometimes in Irish politics you really can be too clever for your own good. In politics, as in war, loose lips can sink the most carefully crafted of ships. On this occasion the Boyle declaration did not spin out of control, but it was hard to avoid the impression that our Green political ingenues were like children playing with matches -- that always tends to end badly. In fairness, the unease of a party which has become tangled up with a Fianna Fail corpse is completely understandable. The problem the Green Party faces is not just that the rest of us, who are chained to our concrete block of an economy, can hardly be condemned for not really caring about its fate. The cruel truth of things is that Ireland and the Government have enough on their plate without our attention being diverted by some minor Bertie Ahern-style 'will-they- or-won't-they-leave' political soap opera. In a scenario such as this, the kindest thing that can be said to the Greens and Fianna Fail is that they should swiftly go to counselling -- for Ireland cannot afford to be governed by a distracted Cabinet that's caught up in an apparent death wish. We do not care if you want to separate or to take the quickie DIY divorce route but the electorate will not be grateful if the country is forced to experience months of some elongated dance of death between parties who may no longer like each other enough to want to stay but who are too frightened to leave. Happily even as we braced ourselves for a reprise of the Albert Reynolds versus Dick Spring showdown there was one piece of good news courtesy of the claim by 'breakout' Dan that most of the Greens' objectives in government have now been secured. It was as well he said it, because the revelation came as news to us. 
