politics
{ Joanna Kiernan 
    July 02 2014 11:25 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/a-more-scenic-route-to-the-top-of-the-political-tree-30402855.html }
After Pat Rabbitte said he believes ageism is creeping into politics, Joanna Kiernan looks at five major figures who are showing age is no barrier when it comes to reaching the top of the political tree When Barack Obama was elected as the president of the United States, the world shifted on its axis slightly – not because he was the first black president, but because he broke the mould of what we all thought a politician should be. Obama changed the way in which younger people in politics were viewed, and inspired a whole generation of people to get motivated by those already taking part in public life to shout louder, rather than spending the traditional decade "doing their time" before finally poking their head above the parapet. But this shift towards the younger, more photogenic and image-conscious politician seems to be taking its toll on the more senior figures in Irish politics. Some, like Pat Rabbitte (pictured), who joked during a radio interview yesterday that he will not be retiring as he is "very bad at gardening", have learnt to take it in their stride. "For a programme that's normally so politically correct, this trend towards ageism is very disturbing," he remarked on the interviewer's line of questioning. However, as Ruairi Quinn announced his resignation yesterday ahead of next week's cabinet reshuffle, he made particular reference to his wish to create "an opportunity to give a new generation a chance to lead". But it has been a long road for many of the world's top statesmen and women, so perhaps there is something to be said for taking one's time. Michael D Higgins, President of Ireland (73) Age was a subject that dominated Michael D Higgins's presidential election campaign back in 2011. However, the President has managed to surprise many of his detractors with the energy and enthusiasm he has shown for the role. Born in Limerick in 1941, but raised in Co Clare, Michael D Higgins began his career as a factory worker, before becoming the first in his family to go to third-level education. After years working as a lecturer in political science and sociology in the National University of Ireland in Galway, and in the United States, Higgins entered politics and spent 25 years as a member of the Dáil, nine years in the Seanad, and was Lord Mayor of Galway twice. Since his election, President Higgins has become one of Ireland's most celebrated and unifying first citizens. In April this year, Higgins paid the first state visit to the UK by an Irish president and stayed as the Queen's guest in Windsor Castle. Angela Merkel, German Chancellor (59) Best known as the first female chancellor of Germany and one of the main architects of the European Union, Ms Merkel trained as a physicist before entering politics after witnessing the fall of the Berlin Wall. The daughter of a Lutheran pastor and teacher, she joined the Christian Democratic Party (CDU) in 1990, where she rose through the ranks and gained the position of chairwoman. A short time later, she was appointed as the Minister for Women and Youth in Helmut Kohl's cabinet and, following Kohl's defeat in the 1998 general election, she was named as the secretary-general of the CDU. Although Angela Merkel became the leader of the party in 2000, she was not chosen as the party's candidate for chancellor in 2002, losing out to her party colleague, Edmund Stoiber. However, in her 50th year, Ms Merkel finally became Germany's first female chancellor following a narrow victory, winning by just three seats. Known for her strong views and straight talking, Merkel made headlines across the globe last year when she reprimanded the USA over reports that US intelligence agents had tapped her telephone. "Spying among friends is never acceptable," she remarked. Hillary Clinton, Possible US presidential candidate (66) Former US first lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton, who describes herself on Twitter as a "hair icon, pantsuit aficionado" and "glass ceiling cracker" took the scenic route into politics. Following her husband's exit from the White House, the trained lawyer, mother and soon-to-be grandmother served in the US Senate for eight years, before she was appointed by President Obama to the position of Secretary of State. Hillary was the Democrats' leading candidate for the presidential election in 2008, but lost out on the party's nomination to Barack Obama. Obama later appointed Clinton as the US Secretary of State, where she was at the fore of the US military intervention in Libya, and visited more countries than any other Secretary of State. Mrs Clinton has just released her new book entitled Hard Choices – a memoir chronicling her four years working as US Secretary of State, which many believe is a strong indicator of her intention to enter the 2016 race for the White House. Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission nominee (59) Jean-Claude Juncker knows a thing or two about staying power. As the former prime minister of Luxembourg, he became one of the longest serving democratically elected leaders in the world, and the longest serving head of government in any European Union country, from 1995 to 2013. Juncker also held the position of Minister for Finance from 1989 to 2009 and became the first permanent president of the Eurogroup, which is made up of the Ministers of Finance from the eurozone, from 2005 to 2013. He is said to have been instrumental in leading Europe through the financial crisis in this role. On March 7, 2014, he was elected as the candidate of the European People's Party (EPP) for the presidency of the European Commission at the EPP Congress, which was held in Dublin. It was here he announced his three key values: "Experienced and efficient leadership, solidarity amongst people and nations, and a strong vision for the future." On June 27, the European Council officially nominated Juncker for the position of President of the European Commission and a vote is expected on this at the European Parliament on July 14. Joan Burton, Minister for Social Protection (65) Unlike Pat Rabbitte, Joan Burton is an avid gardener, but she has no intention of making an exit from politics just yet. She has come a long way since her first job in Dunnes Stores, but it has taken years for her political career to really flourish. As Minister for Social Protection since March 2011, she has made huge strides in transforming the system of social welfare, and encouraging unemployed people back into the workforce, as well as launching a major crackdown on social welfare fraud. First elected to the Dail in 1992, Burton was the first female finance spokesperson in any major Irish political party. Burton is hotly tipped to take over from Eamon Gilmore when he steps down as the leader of the Labour Party later this month. Irish Independent 
