politics
{ Editorial 
    October 18 2014 08:51 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/editorial/time-for-politics-to-find-new-way-30674814.html }
Second opportunities come rarely in life and are even more abnormal in Irish politics. This truth means the inability of the Coalition to make the most of what appears to be an improving fiscal landscape is as worrying as it is astonishing. The fault in that regard lies not in the stars, but in the astonishing ineptitude best epitomised by their apparent determination to replicate the debacle of the HSE in the establishment of Irish Water. This, of course, is only symptomatic of a far wider disease, for the Achilles heel of this Coalition is its default political ethic of ambivalence in dealing with fierce political creatures.  This intrinsic caution was understandable when a new Coalition with scant political capital in Europe was attempting to loosen the binds of the iron age of austerity. However, increasingly a governing elite - who like the quiet life far too much for our good - appear to have adopted ambivalence as an article of faith. Ambivalence though, particularly within the Irish context, is the political equivalent of dry rot. In the case of this Coalition, its core value of ambivalence has created a health service that continues to be dangerously unfit for purpose. This appeasing ethic has also facilitated our inglorious surrender on the 'seismic' banking deal. The timorous caution that informs too many of its actions means a housing crisis - where home ownership is increasingly the privilege of millionaires - has sauntered unhindered into the political drawing room. Ultimately, nothing epitomizes the threat posed to the Coalition by the politics of ambivalence more than the escalating debacle of Irish Water. In this ongoing saga, we see writ large the ongoing failure of the Taoiseach's "democratic revolution". The public's utter disenchantment with the political scene is writ even larger in their frank disbelief of this administration's claims that Irish Water is about investment in infrastructure. They have seen through that fine drapery and know this is nothing more than a revenue-raising garotte. The anger of the voters is not so much over the extent of the charges, as the inability of our political and mandarin classes to treat us to the small respect of straight talking. The latter are within the safe confines of Leinster House complaining bitterly about the embrace of nihilism by an insatiable, cynical electorate. They would do better to understand that the electorate - insofar as they are guilty of anything - are, when it comes to cynicism, engaging in the ageless act of 'monkey see, monkey do'. The escalation of voter alienation, far from being self-indulgent, is the logical response to the fearful, 'too cute for our own good' school of ambivalence Fine Gael and Labour still cling to. This appeasing instinct means that - even as Ireland lies poised on the cusp of renewal - the alienation of the citizens has turned into a political nosegay that may lead a still fundamentally-unreformed Sinn Fein into government. Ironically, the thing most likely to sever that particular ambition is Sinn Fein's own fatal attraction to the politics of ambivalence. Mr Adams should note that the inadequate response to the suffering of raped children was the cancer that hollowed out the once all-powerful Catholic church, until all that was left is the current skeletal remnants. Last week, Michael Noonan spoke about the virtues of taking less travelled political paths. It is a message that all our parties - but particularly Sinn Fein - would do well to heed. Sunday Independent 
