politics
{ Mandy Johnston 
    February 13 2015 11:38 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/mandy-johnston/hes-no-panti-bliss-but-ff-needs-to-heed-pat-carey-30991450.html }
The campaign for a Yes vote in the marriage equality referendum has a significant ambassador in the unlikely and unassuming figure of Pat Carey, former Fianna Fáil TD and minister. He is no Panti Bliss, you will not see him waving a feather boa down O'Connell Street to campaign for gay rights, but his entry into the debate is very significant. Electorally speaking, Carey's demographic will prove most critical in deciding who wins the forthcoming referendum on marriage equality. Political love is fickle. For the most part, our political masters weave a fine line between political principle and expediency. Following in the brave footsteps of Leo Varadkar, yesterday Pat Carey declared that he is a gay man. More importantly, he warned of political complacency in relation to campaigning for a Yes vote. In particular, he mentioned the lack of activity in his own party. I am sure for many, his news resulted in a simple shoulder shrug; so what? The fact that Pat Carey now feels comfortable enough to publicly declare his sexuality is telling, not only about our society but about politics in Ireland today. It is also a timely wake up call for Fianna Fáil that their political constituency is moving on, perhaps without them. As the paucity of policy continues within Fianna Fáil, they are destined to simply follow the political agenda of others on social and economic issues without defining a new identity of their own. Whilst yesterday's development is a positive one, it is a great pity that Carey has never felt comfortable enough to live his life openly in his political family of Fianna Fáil before. In his own words, he never had the "confidence or courage" to tell his story. It may be fair to say that the overtly laddish culture within the Fianna Fáil parliamentary party and wider party beyond does not lend itself to "sensitive souls". You could say the same for other parties too. But there are real opportunities for Fianna Fáil now to lead on social issues like this from the front, if only they could get over the political paralysis. Carey is correct; this campaign will not be won on good wishes alone. It will require political management and a lot of political muscle. If politicians are really serious about delivering equality on this issue and not just paying it lip service, then they must actively campaign for it. To date, Fine Gael and Fianna Fáil have a small number of big person-alities who are leading from the front on this. The Taoiseach, to his great credit, has learned lessons from previous referenda and is delivering an impressive understanding of the complex and delicate issues surrounding this debate. Similarly, Jerry Buttimer, John Lyons, Senator Averil Power and others have been to the fore when it comes to advocating the merits of a Yes vote in May. Pat Carey is correct to shine a light on others who have been remarkably slow to put their shoulder to this wheel, and seem to expect external campaigners to bear the brunt of the campaign. We are only a year away from a general election and public representatives who are largely neutral on this issue are unwilling to divest finances or political capital on an altruistic cause, that won't benefit their bottom line politically. In essence, they do not want to approach a doorstep asking for a vote on soft liberal issues like "gay equality" when they will need to return in a couple of months asking for solid votes to return their seats. The sad reality of this campaign is that, for the most part, seats are taking precedence over social progress. What is at stake is change which, if effected, might deliver a real change for many same-sex couples and also mark important progress for our society. For the campaign to depend on the gay and lesbian community alone to deliver a Yes vote is simply too lazy and in the end they will fail because they will only deliver a niche vote. To reach the much-needed wider demographic, this campaign requires political will and impetus. Civic leaders must play a role. And that is what Pat Carey has done. For bringing the debate to a different audience, Pat Carey might never trend on social media or receive a 'Thunderclap' to challenge Stephen Fry on Twitter, but he certainly deserves a round of applause. Well done, Pat. Irish Independent 
