politics
{  
    August 08 2010 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/john-drennan/john-drennan-labouring-too-hard-and-saying-nothing-26670213.html }
Some may say Eamon Gilmore is too prim and proper, but in an age of austerity, an increasing number of voters now say he is pink and perfect. Michael McDowell's Delphic utterances about the gap in the political market may have led to much speculation that a new version of the PDs might transform the Irish political system and ensure the wonderful work of Ms Harney in getting us to where we are today would be continued. But, as is often the way with McDowell, though part of what he said was right, most of it was utterly wrong. There is a gap in the market and we need new and better alternatives but it increasingly looks as though the party coming to fill it will be the oldest political movement in the State. Of course, even the world of Mr Gilmore is not perfect, for one of the more pleasant summer diversions has been to watch the colour drain from the face of a Labour TD when you suggest that Eamon Gilmore could be the new Bertie. It is true that like those Anglo Irish Bank shares you are using for cat litter, there has been a serious collapse in the political currency of the former loved Taoiseach. However, that does not mean that possessing the same traits as the man who won three elections in a row for a FF party that had almost been destroyed by the schismatic Haughey era is entirely bad. Mr Gilmore has certainly acquired one of Bertie's more attractive political traits for he has enjoyed the luck of the devil since taking office. Since the Great Disruption began, Fianna Fail has resembled one of those encumbered 19th century ascendancy estates where the last master of the house has taken to the bed. Normally when it is an offence against the laws of moral hazard to vote for our permanent party of government, Fine Gael step into the gap in the market, but they now look like a party that needs to be put in a nice padded cell for their own good. 'Slow-learning stenographers still think a Labour Taoiseach is as likely as the abolition of gravity' The similarities with Bertie are not confined to perfect Eamon's status as a lucky general for the Labour leader is an equally enthusiastic follower of the Ahern-style cautious politics of 'fools like Enda race in where angels fear to tread'. The wary soul of the perfect Mr Gilmore may irritate those of us who like politics to resemble a soap-opera every week, but like Bertie, Labour's 'sociable loner' has his own plan and will saunter along at his own exceedingly slow pace. So far Labour's slow burning plan has been to make politics a three-way contest and to then set out to win that battle. In fact, Gilmore's strategy has worked so well that the peripheral hollowed-out state of FF means that only 'perfect' Eamon or Kenny 'Lite' can be Taoiseach. Slow-learning stenographers still think a Labour Taoiseach is as likely as the abolition of gravity, but if FF continues to be the unforgiven and FG embrace the abyss, what else will we have but Gilmore? And as Fine Gael decline into their perennial status as the sick man of Irish politics, Mr Gilmore has, with the kind collusion of the fates, carefully staked out a battlefield where the dominant feature of our next election will be a decisive east coast-west coast divide. Under this strategy Labour will seek to secure a compelling advantage in Dublin and a commuter county region that stretches from Louth through Meath, Cavan-Monaghan, Longford, Westmeath, Kildare, Laois, Offaly, Carlow, Kilkenny and Waterford. If Labour picks up the majority of those impaired FF seats then Mr Gilmore will have created an impressive bulwark against what will be a poor performance west of the Shannon. However, if Labour can sneak a couple of 'surprise' gains there and pull off a couple of 'shocks' in Munster via constituencies such as Cork East and Clare, there is a real possibility that FG and Labour will be neck and neck. Should that happen Gilmore may yet seize the top job for himself and fulfil Leo Varadkar's wish that after the next election Enda might secure a grand harmless job as Minister for Foreign Affairs. It was, after all, good enough for Dick Spring when Labour were the minor partners in the last rainbow coalition. Mr Gilmore has not propelled himself into this position by accident for he has acquired a fair few more spanners from the former ward bosses' unique political tool kit. Like Bertie, perfect Eamon may speak softly but he carries a big stick, for whilst a record of continuous political success tends to erase dissent we have never seen such a pliant Labour Party. Under nice, pink-cheeked Mr Gilmore there are no agonised debates over who they will go into coalition with. Instead, the leader proposes and disposes and when figures like the veteran Labour contrarian Tommy Broughan engage in harmless dissent over the stags they are erased from the party's ranks. There is, however, one question Mr Gilmore has yet to answer. Whilst his status as the new Bertie has been good to Labour as a whole, we still do not know if it will be good for us. Even in the good times some characteristics of Mr Ahern were not attractive and one of the more intriguing similarities between our new political twins is that Mr Gilmore is very good at creating the impression that he is going on the same road as you. However, when you look back at what Cautious Gilmore has said he has in truth only gone a little part of the way. Like Bertie, the Labour leader is respected but even his own know little about their perfect leader. The problem with Mr Ahern was that by the time we unveiled the real Bertie it was far too late. In the case of Mr Gilmore the difficulty is that when it comes to leaders keeping secrets, the mood of the electorate is one of 'fool me once, shame on you . . . fool me twice shame on me'. Mr Gilmore is at some stage going to have to stop the dance of the seven veils and tell us who his friends and enemies are. His natural caution means he may be reluctant to emerge from the burrow, but before he gets too entrenched Mr Gilmore would be wise to remember the fate of his poor disregarded rival. In election 2007, Enda took the easy road, decided not to confront FF on the economy, and essentially went on the run for the campaign. As a strategy it initially worked --but in all wars there does come a time when you must turn and fight. And when the hard men of Irish politics, such as Biffo, finally got a hold of Enda's collar they dispatched him with the ease of a farmer throwing a sack of unwanted puppies into the river. Mr Gilmore may for now be our pink-perfect new alternative. But there will come a time when his political accounts will be scrutinised as carefully as his soulmates' personal finances. When that moment arrives Labour must hope Gilmore has better answers than Mr Ahern or perfect Eamon will have to adjust to his status as our new Micheal Martin whilst the rest of us learn to love Enda as Taoiseach. Sunday Independent 
