politics
{  
    May 10 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/sorry-spare-me-your-irish-politeness-26231329.html }
A View From Abroad: I love Ireland but how do I know if the Irish really like me, asks Ivanka Zorich THIS FEELS like some nice person has invited you for dinner. Food was lovely, wine even better, atmosphere warm and friendly, and then somewhere between main course and dessert, he (or she) sits across the table and lets you talk. About him/her and his/her family. What do you, really, from your perspective, think of him/her? And, mind you, without trying to be nice and polite. Straight to his/her face. Like it is not such a big deal. That's what my position is. I'm writing this hoping to be given understanding for what I'm about to say. After all, it's your house that I'm in. I do this, not only because of the situation described, but also because I know (a little) about your main mode of communicating, easy to describe in one word: politeness. That all-embracing and incredibly obvious politeness is one of the first things that a foreigner (except Americans, of course; "have a nice day") will notice. My first week in Ireland was really rainy and grey. I was standing in front of a bank, waiting for The Man. I was looking around, minding my own business. Suddenly there's a voice from my right. "Hi, how are you!" It belongs to a 60-year-old lady with a smile all across her beautiful face. "I'm fine. Thank you for asking," I hear myself say, thinking she must be a bit weird. I quickly move to the other side of the painted-glass door, next to the pleasant gentleman in his early forties. He is wearing a grey bank-administrator suit and looks like his only sin could be the forbidden cigarette he is having. Thirty seconds later he turns his face to me, asking, "How are you today?" Cornered, I say fine and ask how is he today. And there it is - a conversation about weather (yesterday, a month ago, last year), the place I'm from and finally Ireland and how I like it. "Fantastic," I comment, "it's just that I'm a meteopath and this rain and all this grey sky really make me feel miserable." Raising his eyebrows, he throws away a wet cigarette saying, "Well, that's Ireland, you know, and that's part of it. If you don't like it . . . . " He smiles and disappears behind the glass door. " . . . you may as well piss off" was the part of the sentence that he never said, but it was there, suspended between me and the painted glass. Later, I describe the situation to The Man (almost Irish), and he implies rudeness on my side. "But he's (more than anything else) Irish, that's why he doesn't understand you," said the voice in my head. Scene 2: One of my first visits to a pub. Amazed, I'm looking at the stampede before bar-closing, just to get the last few rounds. I said to my new Irish friend that it was really unusual to see people who love alcohol so much. "Well, you'd better get use to that, orrrrr . . . ." Or go back to where you came from, was the rest of the sentence that he, being a polite Irish guy, never said. But it was there! I know it was, because I felt so guilty, and decided to shut up for the rest of evening. Closed mouth gathers no feet. Politeness in communication makes you feel good in a supermarket, a post-office and a bank. It's so friendly and warm you find yourself feeling nice and smiling and repeating "sorry" all the time, and talking to complete stranger about your husband's habits, and your child's measles. But, what after that? Is there a deeper level? The one where all our frustrations, thoughts and feelings come together? Where you break from convention and make bonds washed with tears, words and thoughts? When you say what you really think and feel, no matter what? You simply can't be polite all the time, it's impossible! I have some examples. Take The Weakest Link, the British TV quiz, whose main point is Anne Robinson's mean, offensive and sarcastic attitude. The show was franchised all over the world, Ireland included. Apparently the meanest journalist in the country, Eamon Dunphy, was hosting it. And he was awful. Because he was so nice and polite. The meanest Irish public figure looked like Princess Di visiting Calcutta. Or take your Taoiseach. To me, he looks so nice that I can't think badly of him. But it seems to me that if I spent three months with him trapped on some desert island we'd never get close. He would be the same nice gentleman saying, "I'm terribly sorry," after my hysterical demand to get us out of there. I've violated Irish politeness more than twice. Sitting in the pub with a friend, I've found the comfy spot under the James Joyce portrait. We were discussing pub culture. In the middle of the conversation he asked do I know the guy above my head. "Of course, Joyce's face hangs in so many Dublin's pubs." I said that Joyce's face all over Dublin sometimes reminded me of countries where the president's face hangs on every wall in public places. "I guess if you are a poor painter, the easiest way of making some money is to paint a Joyce portrait, there's always some new pub with only one of them, maybe even without any." It's too late to stop myself. He doesn't even look at me any more. His eyes are fixed at some point under the table. Tension - and then, visibly upset, but still nice, he asks: "Who do you think you are to have such a hard opinion?" "No one," I said, "but why do I have to be Someone to have an opinion?" Silence. And I know, I'm allowed to have one, but not allowed to express it loudly. Over-exposed to politeness I finally learn to be cautious. Today, I know that saying aloud what you really think is not very clever. Simply because what we think often is rude and not polite; because the world, people and life are like that. I've also learned that someone's politeness, exchanging mobile numbers, the air-kisses and promises that "we must meet some time and grab a pint" doesn't really mean that. It doesn't mean that someone even likes me. One doesn't really know what others think of you. Well, our dinner at your place is nearing the end. Desserts are finished, cognac is running out. It's getting late. I've chosen to be honest about your politeness but don't you dare to think that I don't love a million things about you, because I do. You're going to smile now, slightly more distanced than in the beginning, and say how wonderful this evening was, and how we must meet some time soon. You'll hold my coat, kiss me and close the door. And I'll hate myself on the way home because there's always that feeling that I've said something I shouldn't have. How come I can't learn to communicate your way? And I can't even share my frustration with The Man, because I risk a big fight followed by silence in the bed. And no sex. But that's another subject. 
