politics
{ John Drennan 
    December 19 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/sf-shown-the-door-after-short-romp-with-middle-ireland-26227611.html }
OVER the last decade the political and media establishment has consistently under-estimated the growing power of SF/IRA. Last week, as SF/IRA bounced off the glass ceiling of Irish democracy, perhaps it was time to wonder if we are now in danger of over-estimating their capacities. As the Irish political establishment - well, with the exception of Fianna Fail - finally took on SF/IRA, the facile little sneer by Gerry Adams about how "the photographs are dead and gone and buried in Ballymena" offered us an indication of just how stunned SF/IRA's little heads were after their encounter with the ceiling. In the aftermath of the collapse of yet another historic dispensation, the only thing which is dead is SF/IRA's political privileges. Mind you, as Wellington noted after Waterloo, the triumph of democracy was "a damn close run thing". A disgraceful alliance of Fianna Fail, Tony Blair and the sort of effete RTE/Irish Times appeasement process "sophisticates" who believe it is a "betrayal" of "the people" not to believe every word the IRA army council says, had brought us to a point not dissimilar to the fateful moment when Weimar Germany settled for an easy life and let the wolves in. In the North this has already happened. That poor failed entity now has to experience the delights of a modern version of the Stalin/Hitler pact, where the province is divided into spheres of influence and any one who votes against the SF/IRA junta is automatically excluded from office. There's democracy for you, SF/IRA style. Happily in the south, thanks to the success of the British in laying the seeds of a parliamentary democracy, we will always kick over the traces when SF/IRA attempt to impose their version of the sort of politics we associate with some Balkan fiefdom. It took the guts of a decade, but last week the Opposition and the PDs revolted against the cultural reign of terror which the apologists for our quasi-fascist appeasement process have tried to impose on both sides of the border. In the closest modern equivalent of Dessie O'Malley's 'I stand by the republic' speech, Enda Kenny told a miserable Bertie Ahern that he would no longer support the sort of political process which is driven by "secret side deals" and the ethical equivalent of "blank cheques". Though Fine Gael believed in a bipartisan approach, they would no longer stand silently by "when the institutions of this State need to be defended from forces which have never shown any allegiance to this State". For a moment it was as though we were hearing a re-run of one of those old civil war debates as the Fine Gael leader tore into the appeasement politics of fear, blackmail and silence where "some people in Fianna Fail and Sinn Fein have questioned my democratic right to ask questions in this house". As Kenny noted, the moral bankruptcy of SF/IRA had infected Fianna Fail to the point where "one could be forgiven for wondering if the putative FF/SF coalition was already taking shape". But an alternative Rainbow was evolving, courtesy of PD Senator John Minihan's scintillating attack on SF/IRA's a la carte version of democracy. Minihan's attack could not be greeted by the usual squeals of "political opportunism". His status as a former army officer who swore an oath of loyalty to the State means he is uniquely qualified to know the treason which lurks in the soul of a party which refuses to do so. The alternative Rainbow was completed when Pat Rabbitte warned our appeasers that "political blackmail" would not stop "the Opposition doing its job" and issued a tart reminder to the FF/SF/IRA coalition that "this is our country too". They have developed a habit of forgetting that. SF/IRA's new circumstances were not confined to the rather ethereal territories of the Dail chamber. The public revolt against Bertie's humiliating surrender on the McCabe killers suggests that SF/IRA's advance into middle Ireland is rather less unstoppable than conventional wisdom suggests. Instead, the relationship is starting to resemble the sort of romp which can occur between a neglected Dublin 4 wife and the plumber. It all goes well, until the plumber asks for a permanent arrangement and the wife runs away shrieking. By the close of the week, the scale of SF/IRA's political defeat was epitomised by the wails about how, in exposing the fraudulent nature of the great agreement, Enda Kenny was "playing politics". There is a reason why SF/IRA hate the great game of "politics". SF/IRA don't like us to be "political" because the pious deceits they practisemelt under the heat of real analysis. Last week, when the Opposition shone a spotlight on that party's hypocritical soul, the emperor's clothes were ripped off. After the brief struggle, middle Ireland realised they had actually been flirting with a band of politically uncouth, egotistical fascists whose endemic criminality was unveiled by Enda Kenny's prescient comment that SF/IRA now look like an organisation where "money and not the ideal is the driving force". The worst cut of all for SF/IRA was the unveiling of its political stupidity. After years of blithely skipping over the trapdoors which catch every other politician, SF/IRA got too cocky and overplayed its hand. In spite of the end of the age of deceit, there is still some hope for SF/IRA. If they are as bright as their media supporters claim, they might learn a few lessons from the response of Bertie Ahern to a similar scenario. 
