politics
{  
    October 11 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/schmoozing-at-the-political-party-26236089.html }
THERE are many occasions where a girl would feel seriously uncomfortable wearing a denim mini and red stilettos, and one of them is most definitely the annual Fianna Fail Ard Fheis. Sartorial considerations aside - since fashion is clearly not a priority at the Ard Fheis - we went down to scope out the atmosphere at the annual Fianna Fail celebrations. We had been warned beforehand - expect a hardcore piss-up. The Ard Fheis, we were told, is like a Christmas party for Fianna Failers, (a few inconveniences of an official nature to get out of the way, but all-in-all a jolly good time). Amongst the usual flurry of the standard pomp and circumstance of an annual party conference - poster, banners, high security, camera men, photographers, and countless official-looking people with name badges, we entered the Gleneagle Hotel in picturesque Killarney secure in the knowledge that we would fade, wallflower-like, into the frenetic crowd. But how well does a group of four twentysomethings, able-minded females fit into the scene at an Ard Fheis? The answer is, of course, not well. As I scanned the hotel lobby, it became clear than we were instantly conspicuous, and this seemed mostly to do with our age. The red stilettos, which at home in front of the mirror had made me feel a bit like Cameron Diaz, here seemed to positively scream the word "tramp". The lobby was littered with a crowd which consisted mostly of late to middle-aged men, who seemed incensed, rather than encouraged by the sight of some new blood showing an interest in the event. Now, when I was a student, I listened to many a fervent activist whingeing on about political apathy among modern youth, but until this moment, I hadn't realised quite how dire the situation actually is. There wasn't a single person under the age of 30 in sight. And the sharp looks thrown our way seemed to convey a toxic mix of curiosity and horror. Press officers swirled around us as we waited for the Taoiseach to make his grand entrance. Now, reporters at these kinds of events are probably always regarded as troublesome, and dressed as we were, ready to hit the town, the impact of our presence was magnified. Despite expressing a desire to have our picture taken with Mr Ahern, we were kept firmly out of the way. In fact, any which way we turned, several large bodies stood shoulder-to-shoulder in order to thwart any attempt to approach the head of state. I am sure that it was just a case of conscientious security, in which case you couldn't deny that the premier's sidekicks were doing a great job! Worse was to come . . . the following morning - and despite previous agreement with Olivia Buckley in the press office that we would gain access to the event according to the normal procedures for reporters - we were left standing out in the cold for an hour. Myself and the other 03 team girls sure as hell could find better ways to spend a precious Saturday morning! Having been passed from one faceless representative to the next, it was finally admitted to us that we had been refused entry. Do they think Bertie has something to fear from the 03 girls? That is why this week's picture is taken outside the venue - out in the cold in more ways than one! Truth be told, we left the hotel feeling more than a little unwanted. Perhaps that will remain as our abiding impression of the Fianna fail party? Julia Molony Young will have to vote for change When I heard that the 03 team were going to "getz going" down to Kerry to the Fianna Fail Ard Fheis in our Hyundai Getz I was quite surprised! But adopting my usual optimistic outlook on events I went along to Killarney with high expectations. Unfortunately, it did not take long for me to realise that we would be scorned. The attitude we encountered was - how are these girls qualified to pontificate on Irish politics? But they forget young people are the future of any political party. Despite my lack of political savvy I arrived at the event with an open mind. In the past week I have been infuriated by the government on a number of issues. From the DART, which they were planning to cancel at weekends, to the totalitarian, no-smoking ban proposed from January, one does not know where to look for solace! But one still cannot begrudge FF their annual piss-up! One avid supporter in the Failte Bar said: , "I am a publican from Thurles and I am here to oppose the smoking ban." When asked how he felt in relation to the ban, he said, "Nobody gives a shit about the government. But there is a belief out there, even among the grassroots, that the ordinary Joe is not getting his say." Of the people who spoke to the Sunday Independent , it was widely believed that the Ard Fheis was a forum to address the hundreds of issues which aggrieved supporters wished to address. One member stated, "For Irish people we feel like this government is robbing us of our cultural debating forum; the pub. We feel like they are alienating people who smoke in bars." One Fianna Failer asked what our motives were for talking to people in the bar. When I replied: "Well, it's the best place to find out what's going on." He replied: "Exactly, this government is willing to sacrifice the free choice and expression of Irish people, to enforce the smoking ban. It's farcical and we're here to attempt to stop this." Another issue which an ardent support wanted to address was the removal of the VTOS child care scheme. The 03 team may not have moved milestones in Irish politics but we believe the youth of this country should start voting or things will never change in the current political climate. Siobhan O'Connor Almost drunken, dizzy buzz is palpable AT ANY Ard Fheis, regardless of which political party, there's a few certainties that you are bound to witness. One is sure to see numerous men in tweed caps of the Jackie Healy-Rae school, whether in Kerry or Dublin. A few members of the youth wing of the party are bound to have prominence amongst the masses - whether because they bear a resemblance to Harry Enfield's 'Tory Boy' or because they simply stand out in their normality. At the other end of the age scale, the elderly members always seem to ensure their presence, to remind everyone what politics in this country was like before, when the Civil War politics were what really mattered. But middle-aged women in brightly-coloured suits, and middle-aged men who resemble doctors always dominate the field. Another certainty is the behaviour of delegates at the conference, and the Fianna Fail Ard Fheis this weekend this was no exception. The exception was that we were there! At the build-up to the arrival of the leader an almost drunken, dizzy buzz is palpable in the atmosphere at the expectation of the captain of the club, the chief, the hero of the party. This pattern is apparent in almost every Ard Fheis, regardless of whether the leader is suffering a dip in popularity, regardless of whether they have recently holidayed in France or Ireland, or have been embroiled in controversy or is about to implement some extremely unpopular legislation. The delegates will protect this figure to the hilt from impostors who may wish to harm him with their words - like us 03 girls - and the possibility of our stark political analysis of the weekend. Or someone could dare to "take the piss" whilst posing in a photograph with him. Have you ever known the 03 girls to do such a thing? Who needs bodyguards from four lovely ladies, when you've got a hungry pack of the faithful? Like on a bee farm, the source of the honey was Bertie himself where all the nectar was made and the drones were the masses, come too close and you might just get stung. Or simply pushed out of the way, all in pursuit of a photo op with the man of the moment, our country's "great leader". My guess is that the other party leaders would be only too delighted to pose with the 03 girls. Who knew Bass-drinking Bertie was so selective about the company he keeps? Emma Blain There's something about Bertie THIS weekend was the first time I have ever been to a political conference, I'd normally prefer to be out with my friends having a few drinks at a club rather than mingling with politicians. Which just goes to show how inspiring the leaders of this country are to people my age. But this time I thought I'd make an exception and travel to Killarney with the girls in the hope of seeing what Bertie and his cronies are really like. I have to admit that I've always had a bit of a thing for Bertie, the man of the people that he is. There's something about his persona that I have always found quite fascinating. So along with Siobhan, Julia and Emma, I went to the Fianna Fail Ard Fheis. In my view, it was farcical. It was meant to be some sort of milestone in the fact that the Ard Fheis was held in Killarney - the first time in 67 years that it's been held outside of Dublin. You'd think that the people of Killarney might be at least a little interested in the fact that there were so many important politicians on their doorsteps - they could voice their opinions on the real issues that mattered to them, like the proposed smoking ban. There was more than a little irony in the fact that the event was held in the town that is being described as the nerve-centre for the anti-smoking ban lobby. Yet we saw no signs of a hostile stand-off between the publicans and the politicians. A few signs on pub doors declared defiance to the proposed ban, which was the clearest sign of how political issues are having an impact on peoples lives, yet the politicians seemed happy to schmooze and booze around the streets of Killarney regardless. Bertie is meant to be a man of the people but all he really is is a typical guy, never listening to anyone. We're all aware of that Fianna Fail catchphrase, well in my opinion they're right in that they have a lot more to do, that is to listen to the people.  Sonia Harris  O3 team 
