politics
{  
    July 27 2018 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/boland-back-on-the-beat-37145504.html }
After 14 years where he said he had 'a long rest' Cathal Boland has taken a seat once again on Fingal County Council and says he is looking forward to getting into the political fray again. Cllr Boland is to take the seat vacated by Cllr David O'Connor recently and will finish out the current council term which ends next May with the 2019 local elections. Cathal Boland is a well-known political figure in Fingal and has 21 years serving the county council already under his belt so this 'new' councillor is no novice. Cllr Boland had hoped to restart his political career four years ago when he stood for election to Fingal County Council in the 2014 local elections, but on that occasion, he fell short of the vote he needed. In that election he ran as an independent for the first time and he will serve as an independent for the remainder of this council term. The switch from decades as a loyal Fine Gael man to becoming an independent public representative came as he grew frustrated by how Enda Kenny's Government were dealing with the economic crash. He explained: 'I retired having served 21 years and in my view, I made my contribution and I closed down politically and said it was other's people's turn now. I did that until about 2012 and then one day, I woke up and I said: 'This isn't working. This Government isn't working.' 'There were issues developing here and we needed to look at the social fabric of the society we were allowing to develop. We were not actually meeting the needs of the people.' Despite that split with Fine Gael, Cllr Boland acknowledges that there are people out there who doubt his independence but he insisted they are wrong. The local councillor said: 'I was nominated as an independent by an independent and that is how I intend to serve out my time on the council.' He said that far from being an ally of Fine Gael these days, he said there are elements within the local party who wished he had never made a return to political life. He claimed: 'I am conscious of the fact that there are elements within Fine Gael who are very unhappy at the idea I was being co-opted and set about looking at ways and means of trying to disrupt that co-option.'  However, the independent councillor said he is prepared to work with any and all parties on his agenda and he will honour the cross-party pact entered into by his predecessor, Cllr David O'Connor to ensure a majority on the council for key decisions like passing the budget.  He said: 'I will honour the commitments that David made. I was actually involved in the negotiation of that agreement. I was brought in by David to act as a moderator in terms of putting the independent dimension of it together.  'I used my contacts in the other groupings to ensure that the independents were in position. I don't have any problem doing business with people  'You don't have to like or admire people to do business with them but that's not to say that I don't like or admire all of them.' Cllr Boland was co-opted onto the council by Cllr O'Connor but said he does not intend to make this one year his last year on Fingal County Council and confirmed his intention to run to retain the seat in the 2019 local elections. He said: 'I will contest the next local elections.' However, it is not clear which local electoral area he will contest as elements of his political base will be split across two new electoral areas at the next election.  He explained: 'It's a new ball game and the situation is that I made a commitment to service the Balbriggan Ward to the best of my ability for the remainder of this term.' But he is hedging his bets on which area he will contest next year, explaining: ' I was out at 6 o'clock on Tuesday morning last week at the rail station in Skerries. I was in Rush and Lusk on Wednesday morning and I was in Donabate on Thursday. So we'll see where it goes.' So after 14 years 'resting' from political life, why come back at the age of 68 to do it all again? Cllr Boland answered simply: 'I had a long rest. I enjoy representing people and I like helping people.' He explained: 'The greatest pleasure I got in politics and it might sound ridiculous, but it was when someone came along to you and said they were living alone in a rural area and they needed a light outside the door. Every time you pass and that light is there, that gives you a buzz. You are able to do something that really means something to somebody.' Cllr Boland's return to the council is not without its controversy. He was one of the councillors investigated in the Flood Tribunal on planning decisions made by Dublin County Council and while that tribunal accepted his evidence that there was no link between any political donations he received and his votes on planning matters in the council, a Fine Gael investigation into the issue failed to reach any particular conclusion. It's evident that whole episode in his political life is still quite raw for the councillor who became emotional at times when reflecting on it. He clearly still carries some anger, particularly against the then Fine Gael leadership who he feels, by insisting that Fine Gael councillors take a united stance on planning issues, acted against what the individual councillor's role in issues of rezoning, was supposed to be. He explained: 'It doesn't matter how the whip system works, if you stand up for the law and for what's right, you should be applauded, not crucified.  'When you vote on issues of zoning, you act as a de facto juryman and you must approach the issue with a clear mind. You cannot enter with a pre-determined idea. Even if you are the proposer of the motion, you should go in proposing the motion but also being prepared to listen to the other argument.  'That's what you supposed to do. You can't go in as a group and decide what you are going to support this - that's actually wrong,' On the Tribunal, he said: 'I'm the only guy who insisted on giving evidence at the Tribunal.' He added that the Tribunal ultimately found his evidence to be credible. Despite his issues with Fine Gael in the early 2000s, he remained loyal to the party for many more years and said that the party was 'part of what I believed in and it was an extremely difficult thing to walk away from'. He said his treatment by Fine Gael was 'morally corrupt, unjustified and outrageous'. Cllr Boland has no doubt his political opponents will use some of that history to attack him, particularly on planning matters on the council but he said he is ready to defend his position. He said: 'If they want to drag it up, I have no problem with it. I will debate all day long with them because the facts are there. I know what the tribunal findings were and I equally know what the minutes books tell us so I have no difficulty.' Cllr Boland's predecessor was well known for being a voice for the rural communities of Fingal but the newly co-opted councillor said that is something he has been doing all his political life and something he will continue to do. His home sits in the Parish of Ballyboughal but has a postal address in Oldtown, a place he said has 'saved his bacon' in more than one election. He said: 'I have an affinity with the rural area and I live in the rural area.'  Known for his combative style in the chamber, it seems Cllr Boland has already identified a target or two and said that some current members of the council 'demonstrated how extremely rude and ignorant they can be'. He added: 'I don't want to get more specific but I'm quite sure my views will become apparent as the year goes by.' In the meantime, Cllr Boland said he will spend the summer reintroducing himself to the people of Fingal. He's already personally dropped 3,200 campaign leaflets in various parts of the county and said: 'I am knocking on doors and telling people I'm here and I want to listen.' Fingal Independent 
