politics
{ JOHN DRENNAN 
    June 26 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/filling-the-next-generations-cap-26259851.html }
Such is the influence of the Healy-Rae dynasty in south Kerry that partisan disco-goers took to chanting `O'Rae, O'Rae, O'Rae, O'Rae' during the election campaign Michael Healy-Rae has been accused of being a clone of his father, but John Drennan found the Dolly comments were a load of baa, baa, baloney FROM the Springs to the O'Donoghues a feature of politics in Kerry has been the creation of the sort of political dynasties you'd associate with the royal families of Europe. But the recent success of Jackie and Michael Healy-Rae, in winning two seats and holding the balance of power in Kerry County Council, suggests that the old order is being replaced by some usurpers. The rise of the Healy-Raes was unexpected. In 1997 when Fianna Fail decided to reject one of their oldest soldiers, the astute PJ Mara noted he, for one, wasn't going to try to teach his Grandma to suck eggs. As it turned out, Grandma needed teaching, for the worldly electorate of postmodern Ireland fell in love with the man whose political career began in an era when the FF core vote consisted of ``auld lads wearing roundy hats and waistcoats, emerging to answer Dev's call''. The country might have been soused in political apathy but in Kerry the punters had cheered ``O'Rae, O'Rae, O'Rae, O'Rae'' at discos, as Jackie appeared to the strains of Simply The Best and the cows in the fields danced to the Irish music blaring from his campaign cars. His strength was most accurately summarised by that astute adviser to Jim Mc Daid, Bart Cronin, who warned some of d'intelligentsia from Dublin 4 (who had been sneering at Healy-Rae's capers) not to underestimate Rae. He was a man from the real Ireland and spoke like a man from the real Ireland. Prior to the council elections, questions were being asked about the future of Rae who has been a more non-descript figure in the Dail than a FF back-bencher. Down in Kerry, however, the myth is still kicking. In Scotts Hotel in Killarney, the exploits of Jackie cover an entire wall. There are photographs of our man heading up to Dublin on his first day, like a modern Dick Whittington, and tales from the campaign such as one encounter with a Nora Batty type who ran Jackie's canvassers with the warning: ``I'll not vote for that lad. He's the man of the nudie beaches. He wouldn't look too nice on a nude beach.'' The reason behind his popularity is revealed in one quote which notes: ``His first job was plucking turkeys in Kenmare. By keeping the Government in power, he's plucking them and the £5 notes are falling all over Killarney.'' Jackie has no time for talking. He's too busy delivering. Kerry delivered right back. As the local press said Healy- Rae had ``begot a political heir'', it was evident that, like his father, Michael Healy-Rae was not the sort of man given to understatement. He once claimed that his defeat of Johnny, er, Porridge O'Connor for the last seat in the Killorglin Council ``was the biggest greatest battle of all times, the likes of which was never seen in Ireland''. It moved one bemused observer to sigh: ``He's like a clone of his father. He's Dolly Healy-Rae.'' Our friend Porridge was philosophical about the defeat, saying: ``Ah well, tomorrow 'tis to milkin' cows and making cheese.'' Kilgarvan is an unlikely location to found a political dynasty. The road to it follows the gash cut through the county by some prehistoric glacier. Apart from some scattered acres etched out of furze and fern, it is a wild, arid place where stumps of granite rear out of the soil like tombstones. There is one oddity. Despite the bleakness, the road is as smooth as the bottom of an aristocrat's baby. The roads, not to mention the continuing survival of the local garda station (open every day in the battle against Kilgarvan's, em, crime crisis), is sufficient to tell us this is Healy-Rae country. Kilgarvan is also an unlikely setting for these larger-than-life characters. The main street is deserted, save for two sheepdogs soaking up the heat of a heavy sun. In Rae's pub, the decor has an uncompromising Seventies look with its plastic barstools and singing lounge. There are few mementoes of Healy-Rae's triumph. One poster. The odd cartoon. A `Jackie Healy-Rae Best Value' sign. Jackie carries his status lightly. You're more likely to see a picture of Rae with the local FCA after winning a shooting competition than with CJH. In the bar the talk is more likely to be about the wonders of nature rather than politics. One local recounts the time he saw a fox tossing hay with his nose. He didn't know whether ``I was drunk or he was drunk'' until he realised the fox was ``looking for frogs''. The most dramatic sight is at the end of the village where a life-sized portrait of Jackie wearing his chain of office thanks you for shopping at Michael's Mace supermarket. The statue has evolved into a tourist attraction. People often stop to have their photographs taken. It also led to a scabrous row between Michael and another independent FF councillor, PJ Cronin, who claimed the chain of office of Kerry County Council was being used for commercial gain. As PJ wailed ``I'd beg for money before I'd use the the chain'', Michael went on local radio to defend the family honour. One local claimed ``t'was like D'Unbelievables'' as Michael ``totally retaliated [sic] the allegations'' and warned PJ that ``t'would be more in your line to be watching the hedges and the potholes and leave a small shopkeeper on the side of the road in Kilgarvan alone.'' PJ's wails of ``how low do you go to make money'' were met with the tart reply that when PJ had the chain ``t'was very seldom 'ou would take it off, except mebbe to go to bed'' before the interviewer ended the spat amidst a cacophony of ``come here, I want yous'' and ``don't mind throwing your dirt now's''.
 A valuable lesson was learned, however. Michael is the proud owner of a very fine '97 Merc. After the row with PJ, the Merc disappeared during the recent council elections. In the flesh, the similarities between Michael Healy-Rae and his father are un-nerving. He looks exactly the same as Jackie did 30 years ago. Like his father, his cuteness has too much of chivalry and divilment to be compared to a snake. It is more that of a fox. The rolling vowels, that cap and a natural intelligence that colleges can't teach complete the doppelganger effect. A tie that is vaguely connected to his neck is swiftly taken off as the young Healy-Rae leaps up to show the scars of his start in politics when ``at eight or nine or ten I destroyed my nose falling from a telegraph pole putting up a poster for Maire Geoghegan Quinn''. The family's subsequent revolt from their status of `political bagmen' is evident in his sardonic remark: ``I'm sure she's very grateful for it. Does Maire Geoghegan Quinn know I fell off a telegraph pole for her?'' He was a member of the FF national executive the night the PDs ``pulled the plug on Charlie''. That meeting finished at 4.40am. ``Yerra, Jesus Christ, that and the knife stabbin' before Doherty that gang around Maire Geoghegan Quinn ... t'was interesting like, t'was worth going up to Dublin for.'' Those days of the innocent little delligate up from the country are over now. He's more concerned about his recent local election campaign. In the convention for the last local elections, he lost the selection battle by eight votes. It had been a tough election. The Opposition had attempted to claim he wasn't from the electoral area ``bullshit like, you could throw a stone from where I am and hit Killorglin''. Even Vincent Browne attempted to raise the issue, only to be silenced by Healy-Rae asking: ``Do 'ou know a lot about Kilgarvan?'' When Browne said ``No'', Rae replied with: ``Well, there you go then.'' Like his father, he did the `speeches outside the church' trail. ``I still have the milk crate in the boot of the car. I've great faith in that and the loudhailer. Let the people see what they're getting.'' He twangs his braces with excitement, then thumps the couch with a rolled-up dishcloth as he notes that, despite FF pouring money into Killorglin, ``at all costs they didn't want me elected. I took them on and all their bloody money.'' The exegesis on money in politics is swiftly followed by the warning that of course ``they're all good people''. Michael Healy-Rae has learnt the valuable lesson that, in Irish politics, personal denigration doesn't go down well with the punters. The dogs in the street might know that the relationship between the O'Donoghues and the Healy-Raes is fratricidal, but when Michael Healy-Rae is asked about it, he's all sweetness and light. He sighs about how ``'tis a great thing to have a minister in South Kerry. 'Tis great.'' He also has his father's sense of chivalry. When Browne attempted to draw him out about Charlie he refused to take the bait, noting that: ``I'm afraid of no man, but under no circumstances will anything make me kick him when he's down on the ground.'' His views on John Bruton, who famously compared his father to a character out of Sean O'Casey, are less warm. In Michael's view, the real circus had been ``Bruton on his own in south Kerry''. Bruton's attack also went against his view that it takes courage for ``a man to stick his nose out'' in an election. Despite claiming that he's not a replica of his father ``I'm able to make up my own bloody mind'' Michael Healy-Rae's political philosophy mirrors his father's definition of politics. He believes politics is about helping the small man. ``If you can succeed, 'tis the same as scoring a goal in an All-Ireland final.'' Being an independent fits neatly with his belief that it's all about being a ``servant to the people not the party this, the party that.'' There's no chance of a reconciliation with FF. The memory of his own railroading in 1991 (``God blast it, all I wanted was a fair convention'') and the fate of his father rules that out. ``They are going wrong, and for my part they can keep going wrong. I'm not going to tell them.'' Asked if the dynasty is here to stay, he says ``that's up to the will of the people''. For the moment, Healy-Rae the Younger is only interested in Killorglin for the next five years.  Despite his modesty, it looks as though quite a few generations of the FF party will ``have to dance to the music of the Healy-Raes'' if they don't want to find themselves ``whistling their ducks to water'' (Rae-speak for `put up or shut up'). 
