politics
{ Maurice Hayes 
    February 05 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/man-of-vision-and-champion-of-politics-over-violence-26015182.html }
THE announcement that John Hume will not run for Europe and his effective  retirement from active politics on health grounds marks not only the end of an era in Irish politics but the conclusion of a career which was as expansive and courageous as it was long. Few will forget the fresh faced young man who led the Civil Rights movement with such passion and force, who yet had the clarity of mind and the strategic vision to realise that the way of politics was the only sure way of resolving conflict, of removing inequalities and of alleviating disadvantage. He saw the Civil Rights movement rise and fall, overtaken by violence and inter-communal conflict, but having created a constituency for change, and developed the consciousness and the language of human rights and the need to make common cause across sectarian and communal barriers his influence endured. He was there too at the founding of the SDLP, in forging it into a potent political force, and as a Minister in the post Sunningdale Executive showing that power sharing could work if given a chance. It was his courage and his vision in initiating and continuing the Hume-Adams dialogue that provided the opportunity to draw republicanism into the political process, to begin to end the conflict, to move, however uncertainly, from armed struggle to the democratic process. Paradoxically it was the success of this process which enhanced the profile of Sinn Fein as a serious political force and increased its electoral appeal at the expense of his own party, the SDLP. John Hume, therefore, leaves the stage at a dramatic interlude in Northern Ireland politics. On the SDLP side the main players who carried the party through three decades of honourable struggle have left the stage together, leaving a very weakened leadership and, in the aftermath of the Assembly elections, a much weakened cadre of potential leaders. Sinn Fein has moved to centre stage at a time when the political tide within nationalism appears to favour them. On the other side John Hume's fellow Nobel Laureate, David Trimble, has also been severely wounded and may not in the foreseeable future with a deeply divided party be in a position to recover the ground lost to the DUP. That the two main politicians who led the search for settlement which produced the Good Friday Agreement are no longer in a position to take the lead role in the current review creates a worrying degree of uncertainty as to the outcome. However, it is in relation to his membership of the European Parliament that John Hume's absence will most be felt by his party in the run-up to the election and more widely. John Hume was the quintessential European: fluent in French and at home in Europe; Strasbourg was his favourite political venue and his network of contacts among European politicians, particularly the socialists and his knowledge of the anatomy and the pathology of the European bureaucracy made him an outstanding representative there. John Hume absorbed the European ideal early. He was a European before almost anything else, seeing the opportunity through membership of the EEC (as it then was) not only to promote economic and social development in Ireland, North and South, but the possibility of solving within interlocking European relationships, the centuries old conflict in Northern Ireland. He saw the EU more than anything as the means whereby the conflict and animosity in Europe, particularly between France and Germany, had finally been put to rest and he saw this as a template for the resolution of conflict in Ireland. John Hume will be a hard act to follow in Europe. He was not only a widely respected figure on the European stage but he secured many advantages for Northern Ireland, not least when he was working successfully in harness with his fellow MEPs, Ian Paisley and James Nicholson. Together they achieved much. Working together they were a potent image of what could be achieved in Northern Ireland if the parties worked together. The SDLP will be hard put to find a candidate of stature sufficient to retain the vote. Brid Rogers or Seamus Mallon might do so, but are unlikely to run. John Hume too garnered many unionist votes and these are unlikely to be as freely available to another SDLP candidate and not at all to Sinn Fein. Nevertheless Sinn Fein must be beginning to fancy their chances of taking their first European seat. John Hume broke the mould of Northern politics and cast unity in a new light. He put people first before ideology, before territory. The border he wanted to remove was not primarily a line on a map but in the minds of men. So many of the seminal phrases and concepts of the past 30 years come from him and his role is often unremembered and undervalued - the three dimensional model, the totality of relationships, the principle of consent, the salience of politics and above all his passion for peace for non-violence for simple humanity. What we need to remember is that John Hume was a teacher and that what was sometimes mildly mocked as the single transferable speech was the powerful tool of the teacher: exposition, explanation and reiteration. John Hume whose passion for politics, whose care for his country with his commitment to the course of reconciliation he set out on all those years ago, cannot have taken this decision likely. He must now be allowed to recuperate in dignity and to apply himself to other private things. A favourite memory of mine is of the night the Executive fell in 1974. Brian Faulkner, generously, but it must be said uncharacteristically, gave his staff a bottle of whiskey. As we sat there somberly John Hume came in with a stoical observation: "There's always drink at a wake." Let's hope that the other wake is long delayed and that he and his family and his mainstay Pat can enjoy the tranquility and the absence of stress which for so long they sacrificed to the common good. 
