politics
{ Editorial 
    March 21 2015 11:05 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/politics/editorial-political-reform-still-unfinished-31085356.html }
The statement by the Public Accounts Committee member John Perry that hiring his wife as a parliamentary assistant was just a temporary little arrangement has failed to erase the concerns raised by his action. Whether Mr Perry likes it or not, the facts are that, at a time of high unemployment, he hired his wife, at the expense of the taxpayer, as a parliamentary assistant to do that which, according to Mr Perry, she had previously been doing on a "voluntary basis".  The apparent fury of the Taoiseach Enda Kenny was entirely understandable. Since the beginning of the new year, following a spate of public furores over issues such as cronyism, during which even the Taoiseach was left in a politically vulnerable position after the McNulty debacle, the Coalition is, thanks to the absence of any realistic alternative, experiencing a modest revival. Its revival, though, remains highly vulnerable to the slightest hint of frost. Though Mr Perry eventually moved to defuse the situation, he was a day and a dollar late. Once again, the impression has been created that being elected is the equivalent of spinning the wheel on Winning Streak. You may not win the biggest prize, but, there are still plenty of taxpayer-funded consolation prizes. In that regard, Mr Kenny, who, despite Mr Perry's tangled affairs appointed his supporter in the leadership challenge of 2010 to a ministry whose portfolio included the issue of credit for small businesses, has questions to answer too. The Taoiseach may have come swiftly out of the traps with a warning that the hiring of family members was "not good practice". But it is a practice that has continued in full spate under his premiership without any apparent sanction. The failure of Mr Kenny to end that, which to the citizens looks like jobbery, is the latest example of how, when it comes to the Irish 'democratic revolution', talk is never followed by action. Mr Perry is not free of this issue either. His status as a member, by decision of Mr Kenny again, of the Public Accounts Committee means that he more than other TDs should adopt the Caesar's wife principle. At a minimum, in the wake of last week's revelations, Mr Perry's credibility as a PAC inquisitor has been bruised. Should he stay, it is unlikely to ease the still-keen voter sensitivity over the issue of political reform. This ongoing anger is a measure of the failure of the Government to implement the 'brightest colours' of the democratic revolution that Mr Kenny spoke about so passionately four years ago, for generally, political ethics is a concept which is only of interest to the enclosed monastic order of TDs, Senators and political correspondents. It should be noted that when it comes to ethics, too much of the politics of Caesar's wife can be as bad as too little. That said, to date in Irish politics, the permissiveness of a Caligula has flourished somewhat more than the code of Caesar. The concern of the public is justified too, given that the implosion of the first Republic was guilelessly facilitated by a political system rendered unfit for purpose by sloth, cronyism and graft. After the many fine words about political renewal, deeds rather than words are now required if Mr Kenny is to convincingly respond to the public's belief that the politics of 'the money was only resting in my account' is still endemic in the state. In that regard, Mr Perry may yet end up being of some accidental service to the state, for he has given the Taoiseach an opportunity to end a practice he criticised so clearly last week. Given that he is actually the Taoiseach; Mr Kenny should seize it. "Sinn Fein do not take their responsibilities seriously and regard the whole business of government as a game, the purpose of which is to say what your supporters want to hear all the time, and blame someone else for everything. This is a juvenile approach to politics. It is just not serious, and voters deserve politicians who are serious about their work." John Bruton, former Taoiseach, on the Belfast agreement talks. "The underlying principle of Sinn Fein politics is, what's in Sinn Fein's interest is in the national interest. Not unlike what Fianna Fail were like under Charlie Haughey. Instead of rise and follow Charlie, it's rise and follow Gerry." Brendan Howlin, Minister for Public Expenditure. "The Tricolour belongs to no one particular party although it has been widely used and sometimes misused by Sinn Fein and other political organisations." Catherine Byrne, FG TD. "To marry a politician is one thing, to give birth to one is inexcusable." Words of the late Mai Flanagan, wife of the late Oliver J Flanagan and mother of Foreign Affairs Minister Charlie Flanagan, revealed at her funeral last weekend. "There is a nasty undercurrent of bigotry. They are trying to establish an association that somehow gay, lesbian and bisexual people can't be trusted with kids. I find it deeply ironic that this sort of implication is coming from the same organisation that did more damage to children in this country than any other…There are brave individuals in the Catholic Church and I do not want to tarnish them, but what the hierarchy is involved in is nasty and disgusting." Richard Boyd Barrett, People Before Profit TD. "Too often we have taught people to look on God as a relentless judge. When we think in that way, our faith becomes harsh and we become harsh within ourselves and in our interaction with others and we then betray the real truth about God, that he is love." Diarmuid Martin, Archbishop of Dublin. "The government of the right is in danger. Leftist activists and the foreign and international media are conspiring to get (other parties) elected via illegitimate means using innuendo and foreign money. Those foreign organisations understand that if (the other parties) are in charge, they will give up everything. They'll withdraw to the 1967 boundaries and they will divide Jerusalem…They know the Likud and I will never surrender to pressure." Benjamin Netanyahu, election eve message that saw him ­ re-elected. "I have the feeling that my pontificate will be brief. Four or five years, I do not know. Even two or three. Benedict should not be considered an exception but an institution." Pope Francis. "We oppose gay adoptions. The only family is the traditional one. No chemical offspring and rented uterus. Life has a natural flow, there are things that should not be changed. Procreation must be an act of love. You are born to a mother and a father, or at least that's how it should be. I call children of chemistry, 'synthetic' children. Rented uterus. Semen chosen from a catalogue. The family is not a fad. In it there is a supernatural sense of belonging." Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana, fashion designers. "How dare you refer to my beautiful children as 'synthetic'. And shame on you for wagging your judgmental little finger at IVF - a miracle that allowed legions of loving people, both straight and gay, to fulfil their dream of having children. Your archaic thinking is out of step with the times, just like your fashions. I shall never wear Dolce and Gabbana ever again." Elton John, singer. Sunday Independent 
