politics
{ Alan Dukes 
    May 02 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/bright-future-in-the-challenges-of-enlargement-25912762.html }
THIS YEAR'S enlargement is the most significant since the European Economic Community was founded in 1957. There have been five previous enlargements  adding between them nine countries to the original six member states. Each of these enlargements had political implications, since each one of them expanded the area of application of a series of values, principles and rules of behaviour. Each of them involved a further widening of the pool of sovereignty shared by the increasing number of member states. Each one of them, therefore, was politically significant. Some, however, were more heavily 'political' than others. Greece's accession in 1981 brought in an economically weak country with the avowed intent of supporting and strengthening a recently re-emerged democracy. Much the same arguments applied on the accession of Spain and Portugal in 1986. Each of those states had recently emerged from a period of dictatorship and re-established democratic government. Each was significantly weaker in the economic sense than any of the previous member states. The enlargements which brought in Ireland, Denmark and the UK in 1973 and Austria, Finland and Sweden in 1995, were of quite a different character. While Ireland, Denmark and the UK lagged behind the original 'Six' in 1973, they were, nevertheless, relatively developed economies and were all mature democracies. At the time of their accession, Austria, Finland and Sweden were well up to the political, social and political development standard of the twelve previous member states, so that it was a case of the strong joining the strong. This year's enlargement is different from all previous enlargements. First, it is the biggest enlargement so far. It brings in ten new member states (two more - Bulgaria and Romania are waiting in the wings). It will bring the biggest increment of population and the greatest expansion of the cultural and political diversity in the history of the EU. Second, it is the biggest step so far in the political re-assertion of a specifically 'western' European identity, even greater than the re-unification of Germany. In many ways, it re-establishes the political and economic development path blocked first by Nazism in the 1930s and then stifled by the Soviet system after the end of the Second World War. Third, it brings in countries which are still grappling, to varying degrees, with the political, social and economic challenges of the transition from external domination to sovereign, democratic political and economic decision-making. All ten of the new member states have reached a certain stage along that path (having fulfilled the 'Copenhagen Criteria' and adopted the existing body of Community law), but they clearly have a great deal of catching up still to do, whether that be measured in social, political, economic or administrative terms. Thus, making a success of this enlargement will be a greater task than was the case on any previous occasion. The prospects, however, are good. The history of the EU since 1957 demonstrates conclusively that economic integration works in broadly the way identified in the economic theory which was part of the original rationale of the EEC. That same history demonstrates also that there are significant gains to be made from political integration. EU membership has shown its value in the preservation and promotion of democracy in Greece, Spain and Portugal. Political solidarity in the EU has been an important element in Ireland's political, social and economic development since the early 1970s. In areas where the member states agree to work together on external policy issues, they have increased the effectiveness of their action. The system of governance, and particularly the decision-making system, must take account of the effect of increasing the number of voices in the debate. It is the capacity of the EU to serve its citizens (and others) better that is at stake in the debates that will take place in twenty-five national Parliaments when, as is hoped, the Irish Presidency secures agreement on the text of the draft Constitutional Treaty next June. In a larger EU, the issues at stake are even more momentous, and affect an even greater number of people. More people need a more effective EU. 
