politics
{ Shane Ross 
    March 20 2016 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/shane-ross/political-reform-lost-in-the-fog-of-old-style-horse-trading-in-smoke-filled-back-rooms-34555821.html }
Thirty-five years ago, I was sitting beside Fianna Fail general secretary Seamus Brennan at a charity do in the Mansion House.  I was contemplating a shot at the Seanad. Following a 1979 referendum, Seanad Reform was in the air. So I asked the late minister whether he felt that the Dublin University seats would be abolished or reformed before the pending 1981 election. Brennan responded that he expected that Seanad reforms enabled by the referendum would be enacted before polling day. I reckoned I was goosed.  Today, we are still waiting. Last week, the media in Leinster House was sniffing around every corner for news of the government formation. Stories of splits, plots and treachery were circulating. Secret Fianna Fail-Fine Gael meetings were suspected. Mutterings that talks with the smaller parties and Independents were being exploited by the insiders - merely for the optics - abounded. The sudden fad for political reform was seen by sceptics as a flag of seduction being waved temptingly at smaller groups by all big parties. The real action was elsewhere. Lurking in the background, behind the sudden, paper-thin public commitment to political reform, lay a frenzy of old-style horse-trading that would make Machiavelli blush. Politicians in the corridors of power were not obsessed by minor matters like government-building. The Seanad election was the only game in town. Today's Seanad elections are a living testament to the rude good health of unreformed democracy Irish-style. The fierce resistance to even minor proposals of Seanad reform over the last 35 years bodes ill for the credibility of the larger parties' conversion to political change. Nobody, bar insiders, really understands how the Seanad is elected. That is exactly the way the big parties want to keep it. Suffice to say, the process is Byzantine, elitist and incestuous. Let me first confess to having benefited personally from the Seanad. Seamus Brennan's forecast of an imminent change proved naive. I was elected many times on the unreformed Dublin University (TCD) panel. The university seats received more reprieves than the Aintree Grand National. I accepted my good fortune while constantly advocating Seanad Reform. Indeed, the first motion I ever placed on the Order Paper back in 1981 was about the need for radical Seanad changes. A senior civil servant promptly sat me down and upbraided me for upsetting the apple cart when I was only a wet day in the Upper House. The big parties never reformed the university seats. Easy targets, regularly derided as 'rotten boroughs' despite their combined electorate of nearly 200,000, they were the most democratic feature of an inherently undemocratic house. Insiders rightly feared that disturbing the Independent seats might attract the searchlights on their own senators and their unique method of election. So the system survives, unreformed to this day. Outside the six university seats, 43 senators are elected onto five panels. They are supposed to represent various vocational interests, but they are really tailored to elect party politicians. It is hard to secure a nomination for the vocational panels. Unless you are already a senator, a defeated TD or a favourite of one of the parties. Then it is much easier. The simplest route is to ask four of your party pals in the outgoing Seanad or the incoming Dail to sign your papers. If they agree, you are out of the traps, up and running. Ordinary citizens do not normally have four pals in the Dail or the Seanad. Each TD or senator nominating can only sign one candidate's papers, so the nominators' signatures are gold dust. Sometimes they come at a heavy price. Horse-trading would be a euphemism for the activities that accompany the extraction of a signature from a current Oireachtas member to a candidate. There are no free lunches in Seanad politics. Alternatively, a candidate can secure a nomination (just to run) from one of the so-called nominating bodies. These bodies are often drawn from the politically favoured, even the grant-aided bodies of Irish society. The dreaded social partners, Ictu and Ibec, use their surprise status as nominating bodies to run candidates for the Seanad. So all candidates must be nominated by political insiders or politically-favoured organisations. The competition in both categories is intense. Furthermore, no nominating body with an ounce of political 'nous' would nominate anyone who does not already have impeccable political connections, and, consequently, a chance of ultimate election by his cronies. So the selection process is utterly loaded in favour of the political establishment. Outgoing senators nominate the incoming. The first part of the exercise is self-perpetuating. The second part is worse. Once candidates are nominated, they are on their own. Out they go into the political jungle to meet their electorate. Fortunately for them, the political jungle is an insider's comfort zone. The electorate is a pool of political professionals, just like themselves, commonly known as city or county councillors. There is no more canny electorate on God's Earth than this collection of political geniuses. They are delightful people, but tiger-shooting with them could be hazardous. Political intrigue is their survival kit. Many of the Seanad candidates are themselves county or city councillors, seeking the votes of fellow county councillors, having been nominated by TDs or senators from their own party. They all know each other of old, many are veterans of the infamous county council conference circuit. The electoral battle is an internal party turf war. Candidates usually only canvass their own party's councillors. Councillors rarely, if ever, cross party lines when voting. The number of seats a party will win in each panel is predetermined by the number of party votes. The only question is which individual party member comes out on top. The result is an orgy of blood-letting and back-stabbing. Fianna Fail, Fine Gael and Labour candidates tour the country in search of councillors of their own persuasion. The canvass often consists of persuading their own party's councillors that they are more loyal to the leadership than their rival party colleagues contesting the same panel. Or that they are more likely to win a Dail seat next time round. National policy takes a back seat. Or no seat. Talk of Seanad reform would go down like a lead balloon as the Seanad election is the councillors' moment of power. The 2011 electorate consisted of over 1,000 voters. Not all of them were councillors because - just to seal the deal - outgoing senators and incoming TDs join them as electors. Not only do current Oireachtas members have rights to sign nomination papers, but they cast priceless votes on all five panels as well. The electorate is tiny, political insiders to a person. The quota varies from panel to panel but it is not unknown for Seanad candidates to emerge successful with fewer than 30 votes. On the university panels you would need a minimum four-figure tally. In the past, Independents have found it impossible to gain seats on any of the vocational panels because they were designed to give party candidates total domination. This time round one or two Independents could slip through because of the spike in the number of Independent councillors returned at the 2014 local elections. Seanad reform could be forced from outside. If it happens it will be over the dead bodies of those parties now protesting a devotion to new politics. The issue of Seanad reform has been ducked for 35 years. The last government was possibly the worst offender of them all. Today, as the party chiefs enter dialogue for a politically reformed Dail and a new government, familiar plots are being hatched under their noses by the hour. Voting pacts are being struck by the bucketful. Cabals and caucuses are being held in smoke-filled rooms. Old politics is thriving. The affairs of the nation play no part in the Seanad election. Sunday Independent 
