politics
{ David Quinn 
    June 03 2011 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/david-quinn-forget-corporate-donations-its-gender-quotas-that-worry-me-26738966.html }
I WAS delighted to read the following headline in this paper on Wednesday: 'Government reneges on pledge to outlaw corporate donations.' They shouldn't be banned. On the other hand, there was the very bad news that the Government will use state funding of political parties to blackmail them into ensuring that in the future, 30pc of their general election candidates must be women, rising in time to 40pc. The fact of the blackmail is worse than the imposition of the quota. In fact, this truly awful initiative, about which quite a few women TDs and senators are commendably wary, is a very good argument in favour of banning state funding of political parties, not corporate funding. State money belongs to all of us. Corporate money is private money. The basic argument against corporate funding is, of course, that it either directly corrupts the political process in the most basic sense -- that politicians will do favours in return for the money -- or else that it gives rich people an advantage, in that parties with their money can use the loot to win more votes. What stopped the Government from banning corporate donations altogether was a certain quaint notion called 'freedom of expression', which is protected by the Constitution (yet another reason why Labour wants to change it). One way to exercise your freedom of expression is to give money to a cause you like. Banning corporate donations would be a direct attack on that freedom as, in my view, is curtailing them as much as we have. Instead of banning or restricting corporate donations, what we should do instead is publish the name of any person or corporation that donates above a given amount. If, say, Michael O'Leary wants to donate a million euro to a given political party, he should be let do it, so long as we know that he is the donor and then we can factor that in at election time. Money for political parties must come from somewhere and given how hard it has become to obtain it from private sources in any great volume, that somewhere has become the State. What almost no one to date has commented on is the fact that this, too, can be deeply corrupting of politics, not to mention undemocratic. It is corrupting because it makes the political parties susceptible to political blackmail of the sort being engaged in by Phil Hogan -- although I find it hard to believe that he really believes in gender quotas -- he seems too sensible for that. But it is undemocratic in that it turns the existing parties into a sort of political cartel, who last year were funded by taxpayers to the tune of over €13m. Given how the members of the cartel have rigged the system in favour of themselves, it is now even harder for any newcomer to break in. Previously, it was possible for a newcomer to raise money from a relative handful of private sources, which is what the PDs did. Now that it has become much harder to raise private money and with the parties who are already in the cartel having the advantage of receiving millions in state funding each year, the cartel is more invulnerable than ever, bar some cataclysmic event such as happened to Fianna Fail. This is why pumping state funds into the political parties and placing so many restrictions on private funds is so undemocratic. It is already hard enough for new parties to emerge, without these further handicaps. With tongue only slightly in cheek, can I suggest that the Competition Authority look into it? The fact that state money can be used to blackmail the parties into accepting this or that politically correct measure only adds to the problem. TODAY it is gender quotas, tomorrow, what? We're told more women in politics will make our body politic more democratic in that 50pc of the population are women. But if that's the logic, why not introduce age quotas and race quotas and religion quotas and disability quotas and sexual-orientation quotas and so on and so forth? And before you know it, the make-up of the Dail will have been practically decided before any of us even casts a vote. What is more, even if in the future 30pc of TDs are women, many will represent the interests of women like themselves, that is women who want full-time careers, at the expense of all those other women who favour a different mix of home and work. So, as usual in this country, we have grabbed the wrong end of the stick. Instead of corporate funding of the parties being our target, it should be state funding of the parties. We need to cast a much colder eye on this source of funding than we have to date and the debate over the new Electoral Bill would be a very good place to start. Irish Independent 
