politics
{ Will Pavia 
    March 01 2014 08:06 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/the-clintons-fight-to-become-americas-first-family-again--30052956.html }
When Chelsea Clinton was a toddler, visitors would stoop and inquire if she too planned to be governor one day, just as they might ask any other four-year-old if they would like to be a doctor or a firefighter.  At high school, boys would shout out nasty things about her parents; on the radio, Rush Limbaugh referred to her as the White House dog. After spending her student years flanked by Secret Service agents, she emerged from the shooting gallery that is the Executive Mansion surprisingly intact. She lives in Manhattan with a loving husband. She has a respectable job. She jogs along the Hudson River and rides the subway like any other New Yorker. Yet, in a short while she could find herself pushed back into the firing line. She could become the first person whose parents have both served as president of the US. Reports of Hillary Clinton's presumed candidacy are piling up. Last week, the former presidential runner John McCain told Piers Morgan that if there was an election now, Hillary would win. Last month, the website Politico broke the story of a meeting at the Clinton home in Washington, held last summer, at which aides and campaign veterans gave a detailed presentation on the gargantuan field operations required to mount a 2016 campaign. "Clinton listened closely but said little and made no commitments." Around the same time, Hillary had made her debut on Twitter. BuzzFeed noted that her assistants quickly changed the mini-biography on her Twitter page, moving "wife" ahead of "mom" and her various other roles: "lawyer, women & kids advocate, FLOAR, FLOTUS, US Senator, SecState, author, dog owner, hair icon, pantsuit aficionado, glass ceiling cracker, TBD . . ." what really caught the public imagination was the final three letters. To be decided. The Clintons have always been a nuclear family with a megaton payload. Focus groups assessing the Bill and Hillary partnership in the summer of 1992 complained that Hillary was a little bit "too political". It is hard to imagine the prospective First Husband being described in those terms now: in his case political is less an adjective than a noun. He is politics. And there are now three people in the partnership: three public figures tempered and tested by a lifetime in politics. America knows of sprawling political dynasties – the Kennedys, the Bushes – but it has never seen anything like this. "Chelsea is not an appendage," says Alan Patricof, a venture capitalist, Democrat fundraiser and a summer neighbour of the Clintons. "She has stature and intelligence; she's someone to keep your eye on in the future." Around this super-enriched core, an army of veterans from past campaigns are staking out positions. The Clintons seem to provoke extraordinary loyalty: "The Clintons make you feel like you're part of their family; that's just who they are," Donna Brazile, a vice-chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, told The New York Times. Their political network is sprawling. On the day Obama was re-elected in 2012, two devoted Hillary-ites began organising a national campaign called Ready For Hillary. Another, called Correct the Record, assembled to defend Hillary from personal attacks that would be triggered by her announcement. There have been reports of infighting among the troops as they wait to see whether or not their general will lead them into battle. And at the still centre of this are Hillary, Bill and Chelsea, the enigmatic triumvirate who could be back in the White House, but who will have to go through a war to get there. Already, old incidents are being re-examined. One reporter from The Washington Free Beacon, a conservative-leaning newspaper, went to the University of Arkansas library to examine the papers of Diane Blair, a political science professor and close friend of Hillary who died in 2000. They contained treasures: a detailed record of the two friends discussing the various triumphs and disasters of President Clinton's two terms. "I know it confuses people when I change my hairdos, I know I should pretend not to have any opinions," said the First Lady on Thanksgiving Day in 1996. "HC still in despair that nobody in the [White House] tough and mean enough," Blair reported another time. Hillary was said to be trying to "work through her anger". In the temper-tossed days after the President acknowledged "a relationship with Miss Lewinsky", they talk about the novel Memoirs of a Geisha. Hillary felt it showed "what a woman had to do to get power". Then they looked directly at the thing itself: "He has been her best friend for 25 years, her husband for 23 years, they're connected in every way imaginable, she feels strongly about him and family and Chelsea and marriage and she's just got to try to work it through," Blair reported. Although it was "a huge personal lapse, she believed they had suffered various personal tragedies while adopting a public strategy, of acting as tho [sic] it didn't bother them . . . She didn't realise the toll it was taking on him . . . She has friends like me she completely trusts. He does not." It's a curious portrait: the President to whom no man was a stranger, unable to confide in a soul while the woman whom focus groups were describing as "ruthless" and "tough" could enjoy warm conversations with a close circle of confidantes. Max Brantley, senior editor of the Arkansas Times, says he recognises at least some of this picture from the Clintons he knew. "I think she was just crazy about the guy," he says. He recalls seeing Bill early one morning at the airport – "our kids went to a German language camp every summer" – and hearing him regurgitate everything Hillary had learnt at a conference from which she had returned that night. "There was always this sort of sync between them," he says. "A sort of mind-meld." Their partnership is also a political operation: this shines out of the Blair papers. We should not be surprised if they make personal decisions with political ends in mind, says Brantley. "If you're an automechanic, you are going to make decisions partly based on your job. [Yet] it is somehow unseemly for a politician to make a decision based on politics." Brantley describes Chelsea as "an extremely smart kid" and a good mediator. "If there's been a bridge between Bill and Hillary when times have been tough, it's been Chelsea," he says. She too would become a student of public policy. "The question that has not been answered yet is whether there is a political career for her," he says. "She doesn't have her father's political skills but she's getting better. She doesn't have his charisma but that is sui generis." Perhaps it would be surprising if she did. As a child, she had to grow a skin like Kevlar. She arrived at Stanford as a freshman in a motorcade with a small army of guards. A friend recalls seeing her walk into a bar and thinking that this might be his chance to snog the daughter of a president, he deployed a chat-up line he had carefully crafted in advance: "Chelsea," he asked, "is your telephone number a state secret?" "No," she replied. Could he have it then? "No." It is a good thing that she does not have her father's openness, at least when being propositioned in bars. Blair wrote that Bill treated glad-handing and flesh-pressing as a form of relaxation. Brantley thinks he may have shaken hands with most of Arkansas. A year after he left the White House, Bill started his foundation, focusing on health care, HIV treatment and then a steadily expanding list of causes. Bill was the rain maker: busy lobbying governments and pulling in donations from all quarters. There were concerns, however, and The New York Times reported that consultants, brought in to examine the books, had noted that the foundation was running multimillion-dollar deficits. There were also suggestions that the former President's mélange of charitable, political and business interests could conflict; such scrutiny would be magnified a thousand-fold were his wife to seek the presidency. The name of the foundation was changed to the Bill, Hillary & Chelsea Clinton Foundation: Chelsea, who had a background in business consulting, was said to be conducting some thorough "housecleaning". She now serves as the vice-chair and is said to be steadily taking over the day-to-day running of the organisation. "She always used to have an office at the foundation, that she never used," says a former employee. "Now it's her day job, she's highly invested." If both parents hope to reoccupy the White House, they will presumably need to detach themselves from the foundation. They will also presumably want to leave their daughter to look after the shop. "If you're running a grocery store, you generally want your child to take over," Brantley says. Hillary has an office at the foundation too and is due to open another in Manhattan. After stepping down as Secretary of State last year with sky-high approval ratings, she has been working on a book about her time in the State Department with the aid of her former speechwriter. "It will be very important in terms of the scandal of Benghazi, in setting out an explanation of her position," says the Democrat strategist Hank Sheinkopf. In January, the Clintons appeared at the inauguration of Bill de Blasio, New York's first Democrat mayor in two decades. Alan Patricof described the appearance as part of the Clintons modus operandi. "They are very loyal people. They pay back people who are helpful to them." Will she soon call in those favours? "I don't know if she will run," he says. "I don't know if she knows herself." Her daughter claims not to know either. "My crystal ball is no more clear than yours," she said this month at a human rights conference in Las Vegas: "I will support my mother in whatever she chooses to do." That, of course, is TBD. Irish Independent 
