politics
{  
    April 03 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/why-are-we-funding-secret-political-advice-26258763.html }
The `Communications Unit' which costs £180,000 a year advises the Government on political issues, but a Freedom of Information Act loophole prevents us from knowing what it's telling them, writes Colum Kenny WHY are taxpayers footing the bill for political advice to government ministers? The use of public resources for partisan gain is precisely the sort of thing which politicians say they are now trying to root out of Irish politics. Yet five full-time civil servants are assigned to a special `Communications Unit' headed by political appointee Marty Whelan, and they are costing the taxpayer over £180,000 each year. Their unit provides political advice to the Taoiseach and his ministers, as well as simply informing government departments of media coverage relevant to their work. Fine Gael has accused the government of ``subverting public money and civil service resources for party political business''. But the government argued last week that much of the monitoring being done by the unit is neutral and saves money because it was previously contracted out to news recording services. However, Labour's Pat Rabbitte claimed that ``the reality is that the media monitoring unit is a Fianna Fáil espionage unit funded by the taxpayer to monitor what its political opponents are saying about Fianna Fáil. It is Fianna Fáil's very own little GCHQ.'' And in a twist to the controversy, the official Information Commissioner, Mr Kevin Murphy, has ruled that the Freedom of Information Act does not apply to the records of this unit whenever its work is of a political nature. The government set up the `Communications Unit' in 1997, ostensibly to provide a comprehensive information service to government ministers and their departments on government policy initiatives and developments. But the Information Commissioner has now found that the unit has a dual function, partly informing government ministers on policy matters but also briefing Fianna Fáil and Progressive Democrat ministers on the public's perception of members of the government in their party political role. Unit manager Marty Whelan refused last week to quantify what proportion of his unit's work was political. He said, ``I am a political appointee of the Taoiseach. I am accountable to the Taoiseach who is accountable to the Dáil about it.'' Mr Whelan added: ``I do not speak to people about the work that we do. I just do it.'' THE Information Commissioner has refused to order the release of certain documents relating to the `Communications Unit' because one of a number of loopholes in the Freedom of Information Act rules out the disclosure of any official records created for or held by a government minister as a member of a political party. The Commissioner found that ``much of the language (used in the records) is indicative of a party political approach'' and that particular documents ``were created for the Taoiseach in his capacity as a member of a political party.'' Commissioner Murphy has listed some of the records of the `Communication Unit' which he says are political. These include a note in relation to the use of radio by certain politicians whom the Commissioner does not identify. Also getting the attention of the civil servants for political purposes were interviews by politicians on news programmes and the use of radio by government and opposition politicians. The files contain a note too on independent radio stations and the Broadcasting Bill, a further note relating to government commitments to independent radio stations and a synopsis of media issues associated with commitments given in party election manifestos and the Programme for Government. With no similar civil service resources being made available to opposition parties or campaign groups, the existence of the `Communications Unit' once again highlights the role of `Special Advisors' such as Marty Whelan. These advisors are appointed without the usual open competition required to join the civil service. Under recent legislation, passed in 1995 and 1997, such advisors are not excluded as are civil servants from providing advice to an office holder in his or her role as a member of the Oireachtas or a political party. So the law allows public money to be spent on appointing a political associate as a special advisor to government and it further allows that person to use his or her public employment to give partisan political advice to ministers. It now appears that the government is also permitted to assign as many full-time civil servants as it wishes to help that special advisor and that at least some documents based on their work may not be accessed by the public under the Freedom of Information Act. The existence of the `Communications Unit' raises questions about the commitment of Dáil Eireann to rooting out cronyism and the abuse of the public purse at a time of great public disquiet about the holders of public office. It also underlines the fact the Freedom of Information Act has various loopholes which may be used to avoid precisely that sort of accountability which politicians who championed it stated was their objective.  * Dr Colum Kenny lectures in communications at DCU. 
