politics
{  
    April 25 2010 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/no-captain-to-catch-winds-of-change-26652772.html }
We have rarely been at such a crux in our history. The country is crying out for political leadership, and instead what we have is a battered Government on auto-pilot, a Fine Gael party without the killer instinct and a Labour party prepared to play the safest vote-getting policy. Last weekend's Labour Party conference must surely rank as one of the most cynical exercises in recent Irish politics. Instead of strong fearless ideas about the economy and the state of the nation, we got an event -- and a concluding leader's speech -- strong on rhetoric and mercilessly short on detail. We got a vague idea about a development bank, and a constitutional rewrite with citizen's participation. There was virtually nothing about crime -- in the week when a young Polish lad was stabbed to death in Cork. So much for Labour being in touch with those working class communities suffering from crime. Worst of all, on one of the central issues of the moment, public sector pay, party leader Eamon Gilmore couldn't endorse the Croke Park deal -- which union leaders Jack O'Connor and Blair Horan support. This is populism of the most cowardly sort. Gilmore will endanger the Exchequer rather than alienate voters. He melodramatically accused the Taoiseach of "economic treason", but surely this is even more treason. Did he not think that O'Connor, attending the conference, might have welcomed his support? It is big-tent politics at its most calculated and as bad as anything we've seen from Fianna Fail or Fine Gael. Gilmore claims that it is best that he doesn't interfere in the union members' decision on the Croke Park deal. This is absolute baloney: what is wrong with giving a lead, especially if you have an opinion on it? And especially if you think it is the right thing for the public sector and the country? Politics is also about giving a lead now and then, instead of following the polls. But this failure of leadership by Gilmore, real leadership involving telling the country they must make sacrifices and face the realities of a recession is symptomatic of the malaise at the core of Irish political life. There is little sense of doing what is good for the overall community, and the economy, instead of what is good for one's party base. Worse still, the political media seem to go along with it, accepting that this is our system. And worse still again, the public seem to accept it, fatalistically resigning themselves to this cynicism and a Punch and Judy show at the Dail. But there is a demoralised quality out there, and people feel helpless. Nor does it help that the entire political culture still refuse, in the face of public anger, to thoroughly reform their system of perks and pensions. Again, on Joe Duffy's 'Liveline' during the week, we heard the passionate and eloquent anger of ordinary citizens about profligate ministerial pensions, and in some cases politicians on multiple pensions. Meanwhile, the same politicians make a whipping boy out of banker Richie Boucher to satisfy public anger. As for the long delay in reforming the Oireachtas expenses system, this is just the cynicism of the already condemned. Milk it while you can, boys, they'll rubbish us anyway. And yet the public is also crying out for real change, and real leadership. Thus the initial success of George Lee, but alas he hadn't the patience to see his impact through. And he is an individual whereas maybe what we need is a new party the way the PDs emerged in 1987. So what are our options then? National government is dismissed by the politicos but can they not at least consider a temporary arrangement to see us through the crisis? Fine Gael claims it was not rewarded electorally the last time it offered the Tallaght strategy but why should that happen again, if it is confident of its poll numbers? Why not make the leap of imagination necessary in such a crisis for which constructive support you will certainly be credited? It is better than endless shrill-voiced opposition. In Britain too, people are tired of the old ding-dong two-party system and have surged forward in support for Nick Clegg. But there is one crucial difference. In the UK, the political landscape is divided according to ideology. This gives coherence and clarity to political ideas. In Ireland, it is two parties that are essentially the same and offering 'all things to all men'. And now you can add a third since Labour is not a disciplined left-wing party, but another catch-all organisation, which can't give a clear lead on public sector pay. It is thus simplistic to suggest Gilmore as a Clegg figure. Gilmore is part of the same political culture, not outside it. Also, Clegg would provide stable coalition with either the Tories or Brown's Labour, whereas Fine Gael and Labour offer instability and division. However, again, the electorate is also to blame here, for they have created and sustained this big-tent party and also the culture of clientelism and fudge. In fairness, this has worked in the past, given the size of Irish society and its consensus-driven culture. The absence of a large industrial base meant the lack of strong socialist tradition, or its big business opposite. But now something different has happened. During the Tiger years, people wanted it both ways -- Swedish-style social services on American-style taxes. Our public posturings mirror this; we say left, but we do right. Until this dilemma is resolved, there will continue to be an impasse. But there is no reason, even with the existing system, that change cannot be made provided we have the leadership. But we are not getting it from the current crop. Cowen is stymied. The job came to him complacently, after a life in politics, and now he is just besieged. As for Kenny, he will always be a super-fit centre forward rather than an out-and-out striker with imagination and conviction. Gilmore is simply leading the wrong party. Maybe he should complete the journey and go over to Fianna Fail. Other than that, we must look outside the party political system, but to where? Charles de Gaulle came back from retirement to 'save' France in 1968. Can we get some former luminary to do the same for us? The brave Des O'Malley perhaps, if he was only younger or eager. Or perhaps we should look away from the current leaders, at other assets in the parties. What about getting Gay Mitchell back from Europe? He may be the man for a crisis -- a working-class Fine Gaeler who is hugely popular and yet not afraid to take strong and unpopular positions. Or Micheal Martin for FF -- who retains his popularity even when he's putting the knife in. We need someone fresh and new. The people are crying out for leadership, but we don't know from where it will come. Sunday Independent 
