politics
{ John Drennan 
    September 20 2014 02:39 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/so-you-want-to-be-the-taoiseach-heres-how-to-do-it-30602282.html }
One supposes we should be grateful that our politicians are such strange creatures for it would be a tedious enough old game without the hint of madness.  Happily, in our case no other group in society - not even lawyers, celebrities or hospital consultants - are possessed by the same chaotic mix of ego, altruism, greed, idealism, opportunism, venality, dreamy hopefulness and sheer oddity as our politicians. But, when it comes to our funny-peculiar politicians, one subset stands out. Most of our politicians are happy careerists who, after a brief bout of youthful vigour, want the easy life. However, an even odder group exist who want to become the Taoiseach, Dear Leader, Prime Minister, Duce or Putin, who guide the destiny of a nation. It is, alas, not an easy task to secure the leadership of a citizenry whose dreams, vices and weaknesses bear a far closer resemblance to our often condemned political class than the voters would like to think. As an act of kindness we have therefore decided to lay out a road map for the Leos, Aodhans, Simons, Frances, Niall Collins, Alex Whites and Mary Lous of Leinster House detailing how they can become the next Haughey, Bertie, Biffo or Kenny Lite. Those who possess delicate moral sensitivities should be warned, my new book, Paddy Machiavelli contains episodes of cynicism, duplicity, deceit, rodomontade, insincerity and avarice. Be assured we take no pleasure in detailing such traits and characteristics, but this is a scientific study of the Irish politician in all their questionable glory and there are darker arts the young politician must learn if they are to get along. In fairness, Paddy Machiavelli also contains examples of courage, will and determination, for though our politicians may, like Philip Larkin's mum and dad often 'f**k you up', for all their flaws they are always, or at least mostly, well intentioned. Anyway should you still, against our advice, want to be Taoiseach, Paddy Machiavelli contains over 200 tips and case studies that helped our eponymous Tom Jones reach the Promised Land by his seventh decade. Detailed below in edited form are eight of those tips. TIP 1: Paddy Mac selects the good wife Paddy Mac, whether he wants to or not, will have to get married. We may be the progressive society and all the rest, but no one is comfortable with a long-term bachelor TD. This is not even a matter of sexual orientation. The cruel truth of things is that voters like solidity, and there is nothing as stolid as a man that is married . . . to a woman preferably. And marriage is not that bad a thing anyway, for once they are reasonably pretty, like most men, one woman is the same as another. As part of your ongoing plan to be seen to be respectful to women in your private life, it is important that Paddy Machiavelli marry that strange thing called 'a career woman'. This shows he respects women as being equals. Of course, in marrying a 'career woman' Paddy Machiavelli should not engage in anything too excessive. A teacher, nurse or any of the caring professions is more than sufficient, for you do not want to end up being attached, as was the case with poor Michael McDowell, to someone who is seen as being more intelligent than you. No one respects a politician whose spouse has a mind of their own. Marrying a nice member of the caring profession is also to be encouraged, for it implies you might be a bit of a carer yourself. Given the nature of pay and conditions in the caring professions, it is also easier to persuade them to return to the bosom of the family home when, Paddy Machiavelli's respect for career women having been displayed, convenience dictates that she look after the children. TIP 2: How new TDs should treat Ministers Our Aspirant Prince must learn one other critical lesson. When a member of the Cabinet deigns to acknowledge their existence, our man's mood at all times must be one of "fantastic". He might think that when the minister solicitously asks, "how is it on the ground" that he wants a full run down on the difficulties the citizens and Paddy Mac, as their representative, are facing. But when he is spoken to by the minister, he shouldn't complain. The minister does not want to know about Paddy Mac's woes, for the whole point of being a minister is to escape from such petty concerns. He instead wishes to be praised and desired. The meeting is all about him, not about our Aspirant Prince. The occasional bleat may secure a fool's pardon, but should our man wish to continue on in this vein, the minister will grimace politely and move swiftly on. TIP 3: Do appear to be harmless even when pretending to have your own ideas Though Paddy Machiavelli is engaged in the brave less-travelled road of cultivating, - or rather borrowing - his very own ideas, our Aspirant Prince must keep his eye on the prize of never appearing to be too dangerous. He can't have people thinking he is one of those Mc Dowells. Such a set of criteria means, oddly enough, that Enda is the perfect role model for our Aspirant Prince. Unlike rougher beasts such as Haughey, it is safe to treat him with contempt because he will not bite or leave in a huff. In fact it is very difficult to get rid of him at all, for you can insult Enda all you want and, like the cat they could not kill, he will still be there, smiling affably as he remembers every word you said. There is of course method behind the merriment, for in a land where ideology is treated like a porcupine, Enda has no views beyond the desire to win elections and, hopefully, to create a nicer world as a side effect. The former, of course is something Mr Kenny has done in spades, even while we mock him. TIP 4: Dealing with the 'moral issue' Sometimes, no matter how hard he tries or how carefully he treads the utterly unexpected occurs and the Aspirant Prince is confronted with that appalling vista known as the 'moral issue'. So how should our Aspirant Prince respond to this less than pleasant new world? His first instinct will, rightly, be to run away as fast as he can. Though this would be both logical and nice, if our man is to be a Dear Leader he must take the harder road of running away in the intellectual sense while appearing to engage with the terrible thing in public. Though the response will vary depending on whether our Aspirant Prince is in government or opposition two key constants transcend these vastly different scenarios. The first is that Paddy Machiavelli will above all else be 'concerned'. And far more importantly still our Aspirant Prince will also be anxious to ensure no one attempts to 'play politics' with this issue for, god forbid, that politics might ever be deployed to resolve a serious 'moral issue'. Having erected that bit of decent drapery, if he is in opposition, the priority of Paddy Mac must be to mine much political capital by noting, in 'concerned' tones that the Government has a responsibility to deal decisively with a problem he personally has absolutely no intentions of going near. For the Government this, alas, is not as easy as logic might suggest. Ireland's centrist, not so Cute Old Phil Hogan-style school of politics where everyone within Labour, FG and FF is essentially on the same side, is not designed for difference. So when the 'moral issue' arrives, the fellowship of Leinster House lads are, like the crew of the Starship Enterprise, flying blind into a galaxy they know nothing of. The 'moral issue', particularly if it is the abortion thing, is not a problem that can be solved by a deal or a few quid or the nuzzling of a few TDs' ears in the Dail bar. Instead it will expose our poor TDs to angel-on-a-pin-style debates over whether we should have flying columns of doctors to ascertain if heavily pregnant women are suicidal or not. When it comes to morality therefore, Paddy Mac must at all times be aware that he lives in a political system where the real moral issue, let alone an independent conscience, attracts the same fearful wonder as the Aztecs felt when they saw Cortes on a horse. Amid all this chaos, be he a minister or a TD, the one thing that Paddy Machiavelli must not do is to take a personal stand or be any way outspoken. Morality in this regard is a matter for 'the boss' and Paddy Mac's role, once 'the boss' has spoken, is to remember that in matters like this, the ethos of 'all the lads together' means the turnip who puts his mind away in a dusty corner - and votes, speaks and thinks in the same way as his betters - is far more valued than the Peter Mathews variant of the species. TIP 5: On the virtue of pet mavericks One of the gentler deceits Paddy Mac should engage in is the keeping of company with mavericks. Though he should never be one of them himself, the wise Aspirant Prince should always try to keep a couple of them as pets, for while they can bite, exotic pets secure attention and denote status. It is like the keeping of tigers by boxers such as Mike Tyson. However, there are real benefits too, for by cultivating the company of the maverick, Paddy Mac is like the old aristocratic lord who acted as the patron for an impoverished poet. As with the best of aristocrats, Paddy Mac can create the impression of being a free-thinker who is iconoclastic and receptive to new ideas without uttering any himself. Paddy Machiavelli, however, should also realise some mavericks when kept as pets may be more dangerous than others. The classic example of this is Lucinda Creighton, who, in a FG party dominated by the turnip-class was seen as a maverick because she both possesses and speaks her mind. Paddy Machiavelli should recognise hanging around with Lucinda is of great value if he wants to differentiate himself from the herd. Though life will never be dull around Lucinda, the Aspirant Prince must approach someone like Lucinda with great caution, for the problem with Lucinda is that she might expect him to act as he speaks. And, worse still, she might be quite vocal if he doesn't. TIP 6: On how to deal with becoming a Minister for Serious Things/leadership contender Generally the signal for being a leadership contender is that he has either to become Minister for Finance, or some journalist casting around desperately for names to pad out a piece about a possible leadership challenge to Paddy's own Dear Leader decides to include our Aspirant Prince's name because there is no one else left. When it comes to the latter, which might be termed the Jim Hacker route, the most important thing is that when Paddy Mac's name is mentioned, nobody laughs. Should that boon occur then he really is on the road. Of course, once anointed to his new status as the Minister for Serious Things, Paddy Machiavelli must immediately embark on a swift process of reinvention. A critical first step here is the curious art involved in the taking of 'leadership positions'. This delicate process should only occur if the party is in trouble, since if you are popular with the people there is no need for leadership. In fact quite often the reason you are popular with the people is because of the absence of leadership. Should the opposite be the case, our Aspirant Prince must make it absolutely clear any taking of positions should be informed by the innocent desire to give the Dear Leader a hand. Others may speculate all they want (and hopefully they will), but Paddy Mac is merely helping the struggling Dear Leader by articulating the plaintive cries of the citizenry that the Dear Leader is too busy to hear. TIP 7: Do remember youth will not have its fling So outside of authenticity, what precisely do our electorate, and far more importantly still, his colleagues, require from Paddy Machiavelli before they usher him into the Dear Leader's suite? There is of course much wish fulfilment by our intelligentsia in this regard. Many quills are dipped and much ink is wasted prophesying that what the people want is youthful, reforming vigour. Paddy, of course, in theory is for this, but, only if it does not affect his perks and privileges, for rather like our 19th-Century peasantry, whose core political value was the keeping of the land, Paddy the voter today is happiest when politicians leave him alone to live in a gentle, amoral Mediterranean sort of way. This desire means the only honest answer to any cri de coeur for youthful radicalism is that in Irish politics, with rare exceptions, youth will not have its fling. The UK and America may have a tradition of youthful leaders such as Thatcher, Blair, Obama, Clinton and Cameron. We, however, prefer our leaders to resemble the elderly habitues of a bishop's conference. That FG sobersides Liam Cosgrave, for example, even when he was young, was not youthful, Garret was a national grandfather, Jack Lynch came draped in the sepia of de Valera's Ireland, while Albert, though lively, was a child of the showband era ruling a country nudging the envelope of the Celtic Tiger revolution. Lemass might have been in a hurry but he was an old man. Haughey too was past his best by the time he secured power, though that may have been a good thing. Mr Bruton, though youngish in years, was a figure who gave the impression of a man who would have been more at home within the Irish Parliamentary Party. Bertie Ahern was seen to be a man belonging to a youthful age, but he too was a creature who belonged intellectually to the age of putting posters of de Valera up by gaslight. As for Enda, he is a child of flaming turf sods and Liam Cosgrave. So should a young Leo come trotting in the door planning to shake the thing up, well you can forget about that son, for Aspirant Princes and young men in a hurry come to a bad end in the land of 'whoa, what's your hurry son?' TIP 8: How to kill the king So now endurance, resilience and some luck mean Paddy Mac is almost there. But the moment when it becomes clear that the current Dear Leader is sick - perhaps to the point of political death - is the time of clearest danger for Paddy Machiavelli. Politicians may be instinctive sole traders, but, the one occasion that they flock together is when the fine carrion scent of change is in the air. At such times they gather in small groups beside the stricken leader, watching with inquiring bright acquisitive indifferent eyes as the broken form, lying on its knees, moos softly as it struggles to lift its head. Before he gets too content with himself Paddy Mac should note, however, the lead-up to the death of the Dear Leader contains all sorts of hidden traps. This is particularly the case should he choose to force the issue for it may be the case that the Dear Leader is not half as sick as the ambitious plotters hope he is. It is unfortunate if this is only uncovered when the plot to behead him fails. And in this regard, the most critical thing our Aspirant Prince must understand is that should he attempt to take out a Dear Leader against his will, he is playing with a rigged deck of cards. The great advantage the Dear Leader holds is the hard currency of power called patronage. It is not just that he has Ministries, Junior Ministries, Committee Chairs and Vice Chairs. More importantly still he has the invisible power to promise to confer future grace and favour on to those who do not currently possess such delights. This strategic advantage is not merely applicable to heads of government. The happy success of Enda Kenny shows the invisible strength of power, even when it is of the diluted sort retained by an opposition leader. In looking at the failed coup d'etat of the innocents in 2010, it is in retrospect clear that the first fundamental error occurred when in an attempt to destroy the Dear Leader's confidence, ten of Enda's front bench resigned. The innocents might have thought this would see Dear Leader Enda collapse in a heap. But, this actually strengthened the leader's hand for outside of showing Dear Leader Enda the full hand of his enemy, suddenly ten vacancies existed. And at that moment 20 of the stupidest FG TDs realised that whatever chance they might have of securing jobs were Enda to win, why on earth would they support the side who would return straight back to those front bench seats if they won? 'Paddy Machiavelli: How to Get Ahead in Irish Politics' by John Drennan, is published by Gill & Macmillan at €16.99 and is available now Special offer for LIFE readers: To get 'Paddy Machiavelli' for just €12 (including free p&p within Ireland), tel: (01) 500-9570 and quote LIFE Magazine when placing your order Sunday Independent 
