politics
{  
    June 19 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/nice-put-party-politics-aside-27550299.html }
SPEAKING at the F.G. selection convention on Sunday last at the Park Hotel, Sligo, Joe McCartin, M.E.P. said: "The main political parties must resolve in the future to put aside petty political divisions when considerations of national importance are involved. Our leaders buried SPEAKING at the F.G. selection convention on Sunday last at the Park Hotel, Sligo, Joe McCartin, M.E.P. said: "The main political parties must resolve in the future to put aside petty political divisions when considerations of national importance are involved. Our leaders buried in the still fresh bitterness of the civil war to manage the needs of our people through the emergency of the 1940's. Taoiseach, Jack Lynch and F.G. leader, Liam Cosgrove worked together to bring Ireland into Europe in 1973. The three parties agreed without political conflict to break the link with Sterling and join the EMU in 1979. "There was never a bigger issue in which the Irish people were involved than the creation of a cohesive and democratic European Union. The E.U. does not depend for its existence on Ireland but participation offers us the opportunity to work for the greatest project for the creation of peace through co-operation that has ever been taken in the history of mankind. "What's been remarkable about the creation of a United Europe is the passion of those who oppose it and the passivity of those who support it. It was very disappointing to observe the difference of the people who had gained so much and the complacency and lack on concern of moderate leaders in politics and in the social partnership. "Political parties do not need to create artificial disagreements in order to justify their existence. We don't have to jeopardise the national welfare to offer alternative programmes for Government to maintain healthy political competition. People who buy Europe on the basis of selfish gain are likely to sell it again when they see a profit. "The Dail debates on Nice included a lot of party political point scoring and worst of all the Government did not report what happened at Nice but boasted of a defeat of the threat of a Common European taxation system. Charlie McCreevy got involved in an unnecessary and damaging argument with the Commission, which worried and embarrassed the Irish community in the institution. Mary Harney with one jealous eye on Pat Cox who will be the next President of the European Parliament and the other eye on her diminishing 3% of support is laying claim to the euro-sceptics ground. It is time for the main political parties to confront this Euro-scepticism and nationalism and Fianna Fail has the biggest task in this respect. Immense damage has been done to our image in the world and it will take years of political resolve and co-operation to restore our image as a progressive and generous people". 
