politics
{ John Downing 
    March 22 2017 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/john-downing/over-50-years-he-took-the-ira-to-war-to-armed-peace-to-politics-35553974.html }
Martin McGuinness was a central figure in the IRA's brutal "long war" in the North - but he was equally central to the long quest for peace. His death, aged 66, will speed up a generational change in the leadership of Sinn Féin. Last September Gerry Adams conceded for the first time that he would be standing down as party leader after 33 years - but remained coy about when this would happen. Mr McGuinness shocked the Irish public on both sides of the Border as he emerged on television in January as a frail and weakened figure stricken by illness which suddenly had terrible effects. His final political act was to shut the North's power-sharing government and trigger early elections amid much acrimony towards the Democratic Unionist Party.   Soon afterwards his place as Sinn Féin leader in the North was taken by Michelle O'Neill, who is 26 years his junior, demonstrating that we are in the midst of a generation change in the party.   Both Mr McGuinness and Mr Adams have dedicated all their adult lives to the Republican cause and in the process provided the vital links as the IRA/Sinn Féin moved from armed struggle, via political action, to armed peace, and finally to arms beyond use. Along the way they moved from shunning the Dáil and the Assembly in the North, while still boycotting Westminster. This complex 50-year journey, at best at the pace of two steps forward and one step backward, was led by the Adams-McGuinness duo working side by side without much apparent tension between the pair. A political world without either or both will take some adjusting to for their followers, many of whom will hope a dangerous vacuum will not ensue. A 19-year-old Mr McGuinness became active in the IRA in his native Bogside, in Derry, at the outbreak of the North's Troubles in 1969. By 1971, he had already served terms in prison on both sides of the Border, when he became leader of the Derry IRA. While his fellow Derryman, John Hume, was busy engaging in the civil rights movement and moving towards elected politics, Mr McGuinness's business was terrorism at a time of ferocious sectarian local conflict. His status within the western section of the IRA was recognised in July 1972 when he was included, along with 22-year-old Mr Adams, in a delegation which was flown to meet Northern Ireland secretary William Whitelaw in Downing Street, in London, during a short-lived IRA ceasefire. Again in collaboration with Mr Adams, Mr McGuinness was among a number of young Northern IRA activists which effected a coup, switching control of the movement from the Republic to the North. For a time he led the IRA's Northern command - and while he favoured developing a political strategy from very early, he was always rated in Dublin and London as an IRA leader. Read more: Terrorist turned Statesman: McGuinness walked political tightrope in final decade of career Mr McGuinness was a staunch supporter of the Sinn Féin decision to stand the hunger striker Bobby Sands in a Westminster by-election in April 1981. It was in retrospect an emblematic move towards political action. But he would later argue that the party would at all events have stood in the North's assembly elections the following year. He is credited with playing a pivotal role in the debate on ending Sinn Féin's abstention at Leinster House, held among delegates at the Mansion House in Dublin on November 3, 1986. It was noted that he confidently said that the "IRA will not split", and his assurance that the armed wing was on board was crucial. After the Irish Government suspended the Section 31 broadcast ban in 1994, as a goodwill gesture before the IRA ceasefire, Mr McGuinness became almost as well known as Mr Adams to Irish television viewers and radio listeners. Even though he was, for many northern unionists, the personification of the organic link between the IRA and Sinn Féin, he was named as education minister after the Good Friday Agreement. Soon after this the party quietly abandoned abstentionism in the Northern Ireland assembly. No Irish republican party or grouping had ever before taken such action. The first attempts to establish the Belfast power-sharing government under Ulster Unionist David Trimble and SDLP's Seamus Mallon stopped and started over several years. Finally, Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionist Party emerged alongside Sinn Féin in 2007. Irish viewers were treated to the astonishing spectacle of Mr Paisley, the hardline unionist leader, who once led his own paramilitary style group, and Mr McGuinness, the former IRA leader, sharing government leadership. The 'Chuckle Brothers' as they became known had a very cordial and well-functioning relationship.  The astonishing had now become normal. But it was also the high watermark in DUP-SF relations. In 2008 Mr Paisley's successor, Peter Robinson, took over and relations were less cordial than the one between Mr McGuinness and Mr Paisley, who died in 2014. A year later Mr Robinson and Mr McGuinness faced controversy over the €1.6bn sale by Nama of its Northern Ireland portfolio to the US firm Cerberus. Last January Arlene Foster succeeded Mr Robinson as first minister. Relations appeared strained from early on and she spoke of the difficulties she experienced with Mr McGuinness, due to his graveside oration at the funeral of the man who, she believes, tried to kill her father. But they appeared to overcome this and also cope with being on opposite sides in the Brexit referendum. The four-month-old row over the so-called 'cash for ash scheme' changed that. Before Christmas, Mrs Foster insisted she had "nothing to hide" over this scandal and refused to step aside pending investigations as Sinn Féin had demanded. Mr McGuinness kept insisting Mrs Foster should step aside to "allow a time-framed, comprehensive, independent investigation". Thus Mr McGuinness announced he would resign in protest, bringing the whole administration down also. The ensuing election, which saw major gains for Sinn Féin, appeared the culmination of a lifetime's work. Sinn Féin also dealt a devastating blow to the SDLP by outpolling it in its Foyle constituency heartland, as Derry is known, for the first time ever. Mr McGuinness's home town had long been regarded as an SDLP citadel, home to its current leader Colum Eastwood and its best known figure, former MP John Hume. While Sinn Féin had been edging closer to its nationalist rival in recent elections, there was huge symbolic significance in finally coming out on top in Foyle. Things had come full circle as Mr McGuinness's parents always voted for the old Nationalist Party. Irish Independent 
