politics
{  
    March 06 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/am-i-that-crazy-to-want-to-become-a-politician-26011164.html }
This week, yet again, sensational allegations of sleaze and corruption made the front pages of  every newspaper. For many people politics has become a dirty word. So why has leading print and television journalist Mairead McGuinness decided to seek election as an MEP? I never imagined how much reaction there would be to an apparently straightforward decision to try something new. When I agreed to allow my name go forward as a possible candidate for the European Parliament, I had no real sense of what would unfold. But then this past week hasn't been a great one for politicians, so it really should have come as no surprise to me that people would wonder why anyone in their right mind would willingly choose politics, with pillars of the political establishment being named and shamed at tribunal after tribunal. At each and every tribunal there has been damage inflicted on politicians and politics generally and we are all, including myself, more cynical as a result. But cynicism is no excuse for remaining on the sideline. So when I let my name go forward, the reaction ranged from shock to delight. Ordinary people with an interest in politics, which has been heightened and not diminished by tribunals, are thrilled that someone new is coming into the political arena. They have told me of their delight in seeing a new face eager to get involved in the world of politics. But that reaction has been overshadowed by a sense of shock among many as to why anyone would touch politics with a barge pole. I'm told you would want to be mad to get involved. Yet despite all the negativity towards politicians, there was little sign of disillusionment with the political process in Slane, Co Meath, on Monday night as Fine Gael delegates gathered at a meeting to nominate candidates to contest the European elections. Two names were already on the list to go before convention and I had decided to allow my name to go forward too. Of course I was nervous. There was no going back now that my name was in the public domain, but niggling in the back of my mind was the worry about how delegates, ordinary members of the Fine Gael party, would react. I need not have worried. There was an enthusiastic reception, a stirring proposer of me as a possible candidate and an equally robust seconder. The two other candidates in the race at that time also received enthusiastic responses. The speeches of Lord Henry Mountcharles and Cllr Michael O'Dowd dealt with many of the serious issues facing the country. They spoke from the heart and without notes. I also addressed the meeting, simply asking delegates to give me their support and in return promising that I would give my best to the party and the campaign. By the end of the night, I had received the nomination, putting me on the path towards the Fine Gael convention on March 14, when the party will select their candidates for the European election. Afterwards I met many people, the foot soldiers of the party. These are the individuals, men and women, who give of their time and energy to Fine Gael and who are never found wanting when it comes to canvassing at election time. They are in all political parties. They remain loyal through the worse of times and the best of times. They regaled me with stories of past campaigns. They all professed that they were bitten by the political bug and - come hail, rain or snow - would do whatever was asked of them by the party at election time. These are the people who have kept faith with politics despite all the stories of corruption. Many promised to assist me, should I get beyond the convention next week. I hope I will be calling on them. Naturally these committed Fine Gael people want change. They believe it will come and they welcomed me warmly into the fold. The morning after the night before and the phone never stopped ringing. The majority of calls were urging me on, promising support. A few sounded like they were sorry for me, asking if I knew what I had let myself in for. I am no different to anyone else. I have found the last few years in this country rather depressing, as stories unfolded of corrupt payments and unhealthy links between some elements of business and politics. It does not inspire confidence when there is a widespread feeling about that "they were all at it". Years of tribunals have dumbed down politics, made us suspicious of all politicians, and generally diminished the whole political process. The genuine politician, the hardworking Dáil deputy with a mission to serve his constituency has been damaged just as much as the sleveen with his hand in the till. Sometimes I dust down the Report of the Tribunal into the Beef Processing Industry, published in July 1994, to remind me of what Ireland Inc was once like. Sometimes I wonder has anything changed. The past is once again being dragged up in the Mahon Tribunal - and proving to be very murky. Many people think back to 1987 when some of this was going on and recall how difficult things were back then. The annoying thing is that while we were struggling, others were juggling with vast sums of cash in brown envelopes. So why am I entering the political field? While my late father was a Fine Gael activist as a younger man, I have spent the last 24 years in journalism, covering the politics of farming and food. I'm told I have the ideal career. The TV programme which I have been with for 11 seasons, 
Ear to the Ground, has been a great success, attracting urban and rural voters. My job as Agriculture Editor of the 
Irish Independent is the pinnacle of agricultural journalism. But for some inexplicable reason I am keen to give politics a go. I have been around politicians and politics for a long time now and I do believe that I have something to offer. I have watched the current Minister for Agriculture and Food, Joe Walsh, a consummate politician and survivor, handle his brief. His appointment of me as chairperson of the Department's Consumer Liaison Panel helped nurture my desire to enter the political ring. I am fascinated with systems and people and why there is always a reason for not doing something, rather than enthusiasm for positive change. It is too easy, but too soul destroying when people just put up with things as they are, rather than fight for a better way. In the stressful run-up to announcing my decision, some wise heads in politics whom I admire, put it to me straight: "If you have any inclination to give politics a go, get in there now and do not look back in a few years and regret that you stayed on the fence." Armed with that honest advice, I have taken the plunge. 
