politics
{ Gene McKenna 
    June 27 2007 03:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/call-for-review-of-donations-as-fianna-fail-records-none-26300322.html }
THE ethics watchdog has called for an urgent review of the laws governing donations to political parties after it emerged that Fianna Fail produced a "nil" return for the first time last year. Fianna Fail was one of nine parties - Fine Gael, the Progressive Democrats and six minor parties - which disclosed no donations for 2006. This has led the public watchdog on spending, the Standards Commission, to call for an "urgent" review of the legislation governing donations to political parties. It says that there is a need for greater transparency and that parties should be required to specify all donations. Figures released by the Commission yesterday reveal that disclosed donations to political parties for 2006 amounted to €140,753.35. Four political parties disclosed donations valued in excess of €5,078.95, which is the limit above which disclosure must be made. Sinn Fein declared donations with the highest value, €87,233.80. The Green Party disclosed donations totalling €30,600, while the Socialist Party and the Labour Party declared donations of €11,819.55 and €11,100 respectively. In its report to the Ceann Comhairle, the Standards Commission notes that last year was the first in which Fianna Fail produced a nil return. It points out that Fine Gael has done so since 2001, that the Labour Party produced nil returns in 2004 and 2005, while the PDs have produced nil returns since 2003. The independent commission, chaired by Mr Justice Matthew Smith, oversees ethics and electoral legislation and one of its tasks is to check donations made to political parties. It points out that it was not known how the political parties funded their 2007 general election campaigns and that parties were soliciting donations below the disclosure threshold. Ethics watchdog seeks urgent action to ensure more transparency The commission says a new approach is needed for the funding of political parties, for increased transparency in such funding and for greater scrutiny of political party expenditure. It calls for implementation of Council of Europe recommendations on rules against corruption in the funding of political parties and electoral campaigns. Political parties, it says, should be required to keep proper income and expenditure accounts, these accounts should specify all donations and, in the case of donations over a certain value, donors should be identified. Accounts of political parties should also be presented at least annually to an independent authority. Each of the 13 political parties are required under the Electoral Acts to furnish a donation statement to the Standards Commission indicating whether any donations exceeding €5,078.95 in value were received by them during 2006. The maximum value of donations which a political party can accept from the same donor in the same year is €6,348.69. Meanwhile, Donegal County Council is remaining silent on the issue of councillors and council employees who failed to make any declarations of interests to the Ethics Register for 2006. Up to 18 councillors could face prosecution for failing to return any declaration of interests and donations for the same period. Some of these are widely known to have substantial business, land and property interests. Only two Letterkenny town councillors returned their declarations, while no staff members there have made a return. 'The Donegal News' reported last month that several councillors have multi-million-euro land and property interests. Attempts to get answers on the matter from the county registrar over the past three weeks proved unsuccessful. However, Letterkenny town clerk Paddy Doherty said he would be writing to councillors and employees about their failure to make declarations. All councillors are obliged to make a declaration under the Local Government Act 2001. Declarations to the County Council were to have been submitted by January 31 while the Town Council deadline passed on February 28. It is an offence for a councillor or a local authority employee to either fail to complete an annual declaration or to provide false information according to a spokesman for the Department of Environment and Local Government. 
