politics
{ Ed Power 
    December 03 2016 07:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/television/tv-news/can-rte-do-satire-des-bishop-is-about-to-find-out-35261996.html }
Donald Trump was an irresistible punchbag for comedians in the run up to the American Presidential election. What a jolly time time they had chuckling at his tantrums, his hair, his uncouth patter. With Trump on the stump, the gags wrote themselves.  But who is laughing now, with the boorish former reality TV host en route to the White House? The question will be wrestled with on Monday by stand-up comedian Des Bishop as he brings his new satirical current affairs show, 'This Is Ireland', to RTE2. Following from his successful election special last February, the four-part series will see the Irish-American comic providing quippy commentary on events of the week just gone (the show will record 24 hours before transmission, before a live audience at An Draiocht Theatre, Blanchardstown). Expect Bertie Ahern's mooted return to Fianna Fail, rumblings over water charges and ongoing Brexit fallout/confusion/farce to feature prominently. And yes, we expect one D Trump of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue to merit the occasional mention too. Bishop isn't reinventing the wheel here. 'This Is Ireland' is clearly inspired by American news satires such as 'The Daily Show' and 'Last Week Tonight'. Bishop even has the requisite American accent, all the better for dishing out the snark. Yet, in the post-satirical age we are apparently about to enter, have chuckle-merchants such as Bishop lost their potency? In the weeks since Trump's shock election victory, a school of thought has emerged that political comedy is now redundant. Facing the nightmare alternative reality of a Trump presidency and a post-Brexit Europe, shouldn't we be doing something more constructive than pointing and giggling? That satire has outlived its usefulness was recently broached by comic writer Armando Iannucci, creator of barbed political comedies 'The Thick of It' and 'Veep'. With the electorate polarised and unwilling to listen to opposing opinions, it was, he suggested, harder than ever to skewer politicians. The left has fallen victim to humourless political correctness, Iannucci appeared to imply, while Trump and other demagogues are so over the top as to constitute their own punchline. In such circumstances, with voters split between po-faced and hopping mad, what is the point of political comedy? The viewpoint is not necessarily shared by the team behind 'This Is Ireland'. They see Trump as good for business. Irish audiences have spent the past several months feasting on political comedy from the United States, as the 'Daily Show' and 'Saturday Night Live' had their fun with the Republican candidate. Appetites here have been whetted for more of the same, only with a local twist. "Trump is a very big and broad topic and is positive for a comedy audience. He is very good for us," says Seamus Cassidy, one of the producers of the new series and a former senior commissioning editor for comedy at Channel 4, where he commissioned 'Father Ted', 'Whose Line Is It Anyway?', 'Drop The Dead Donkey' and 'Brass Eye', as well as helping to set up 'The Panel' with Dara O Briain. Cassidy gives short shrift to the idea that 'This Is Ireland' is essentially a re-themed 'Daily Show'. Ireland isn't the United States, and an Irish political comedy will, by its very nature, have a distinct voice. "We've all loved the 'Daily Show' and the 'Colbert Report'," adds co-producer James Cotter, who also co-created 'Republic of Telly' and produced 'Tubridy Tonight'. "The point is, there were lots of similar shows before that. They were by no means the first of their kind. There is a long tradition of such comedy, although not so much over here." The boundaries of political humour were tested on election night in the US as comics such as the aforementioned Stephen Colbert struggled to raise a smile as it became clear Trump was about to win. A palpable malaise hung over American comedy for days afterwards, as chat show hosts and presenters tried, and largely failed, to make sense of one of the biggest upsets in American politics. "There can be no disputing that the special, called partly 'Stephen Colbert's Live Election Night Democracy's Series Finale', was unique," wrote the 'New York Times' of Colbert's election night broadcast. "But surely not in the way the politically liberal Mr Colbert, his guests or his audience had expected… With pre-election polls suggesting a Hillary Clinton victory, Mr Colbert and his guests were buffeted throughout the broadcast by the growing realisation that Donald J Trump had won the presidency." In the main, hosts resorted to platitudes about America having overcome worse upsets before. 'Saturday Night Live' struck an especially bizarre tone when comedian Kate McKinnon queasily impersonated Hillary Clinton while singing Leonard Cohen's 'Hallelujah' (a gag that may have made sense in the writers' room but was dead on arrival on screen). Only John Oliver - a Brit transplanted to Manhattan - looked genuinely aghast. "If we don't get actively involved to at least mitigate Trump's damage, things will not be okay," he said, cautioning against the temptation to "normalise" Trump and accept his racism and misogyny as mainstream opinions. Whatever about the United States and its present anguish, there is every reason to believe Ireland is perfect for political comedy, say the creators of 'This Is Ireland'. We are fascinated with politics and adore seeing famous people brought down a peg or three. "Irish people like poking fun at our politicians," says Cotter. "That is why satire works so well. We want to make fun of these lads because, at the end of the day, we know that they are just as big eejits as we are." What about the argument that Irish comedy suffers from low expectations? The received wisdom for decades was that RTE, especially, didn't "do" funny. That perception has arguably started to change - though many viewers will still question whether the national broadcaster has the rigour for proper comedy (exhibit a: 'Brigid and Eamon', amusing in the way contagious rashes are amusing). "There has been a lot of comedy coming out of RTE in the past 10 years. Not everything is going to be a hit. However, a lot of it has been successful," say Cassidy. "Our distinctive sense of humour means that Irish people will always want Irish comedy. Comedy from other English-speaking countries may perhaps seem slightly generic. Irish comedy has a particular feel to it." Ultimately, 'This Is Ireland' will live or die according to whether it is funny, he says. Political commentary is not the overarching goal. The show will succeed only if it makes people laugh. "You can make a current affairs programme and it can be incredibly badly done but if the story is strong people will respond to it," explains Cassidy. "If you make a comedy show and people don't laugh, then you are dead." 'Des Bishop: This Is Ireland' starts on RTE2 10pm Monday Irish Independent 
