politics
{ Samantha McCaughren 
    January 11 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/polls-apart-how-politics-here-has-picked-up-posturing-26279660.html }
THE upcoming general election is set to be the slickest this country has ever seen and advertising tactics are already playing a key role in the battle. THE upcoming general election is set to be the slickest this country has ever seen and advertising tactics are already playing a key role in this political battle. So-called 'negative advertising', which aims to rubbish opponents, and the importing of international spin doctors indicate just how important marketing tricks have become to politics. Millions will be spent on marketing and advertising in the coming months, but how much difference will it actually make? Colm Carey, consumer psychologist of the Research Centre, said: "Most of this advertising and marketing is targeting what they call floating voters." He said there were three type of voters which politicians can anticipate - supporters of the party, the personality and the principle. This first type is the party stalwart. The second type votes for the individual, which is reflective of the parochial nature of Irish politics and ongoing support of Michael Lowry is an example of this. The third type of voter will back a politician campaigning on issues of concern to them such as patient waiting lists. "It's the other group - the floating voter - that everybody is after," he said. "People in this group claim not to have made up their mind and could go to the wire right up to the polling booth. They can be influenced by the media and advertising." Mr Carey said that he was wary of personality-based politics, which is being imported from the US. If something goes wrong for the party leader, a party can be left high and dry. Mr Carey also said caution should be exercised in relation to another marketing tool in politics - focus groups. He said the real concerns for people are often found in what they aren't saying. "If you take what people are saying literally, you aren't getting to the substance of it," he commented. Conor Carroll, a lecturer in marketing at the University of Limerick, also said that the cult of the leader could backfire for parties. "National political advertising now really focuses on the personalities and leadership styles of their party leaders, they personify their respective parties, rather than politics," he said. "If the public don't like or have confidence in a party's leader, then they are on to a loser straight away." He said that the advertising would certainly reach voters, but not necessarily have the desired impact. "The advertising blitz which will take place in the run-up to the election will garner huge awareness levels for the parties, and individuals concerned, but it will not alter people's voting patterns," he said. "Their hearts and minds will be swayed by key political issues and events, and the track record of the politicians at a local and national level," he added. There is evidence that such campaigns have backfired in other countries As with other marketing experts, he is suspicious of campaigns which try to undermine opponents, such as Fine Gael's Michael McDowell poster. There is evidence that such campaigns have backfired in other countries. "Negative campaigning can act as a double-edged sword - as Brendan Behan famously said, 'There's no such thing as bad publicity, except your obituary'," said Mr Carroll. But from a media owner's point of view, the expenditure ahead of the election is great news. Ciaran Cunningham, chief executive of media agency Carat, said that the ?1bn advertising market was set for another good year, with the election contributing to growth. "Outdoor and press will be the real winners due to restrictions on broadcasters with regards to political advertising. A cap on spending in the two months before the election has meant that parties are starting earlier this time around, and that is why we're already seeing a lot of marketing activity." Mr Cunningham said there are international cases whereby a successful campaign has been credited with influencing the result of an election. "A clear and concise message can have a significant impact," he said. He added that marketing tools are going to be an inevitable part of politics in the future. "Parties are following what's happening in the States and they see the power of advertising to influence in all walks of life - why not in politics," he said. 
