politics
{  
    March 25 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/kenny-counting-on-experience-26396167.html }
Interview Brian Dowling Political Correspondent FINE Gael leader Enda Kenny is planning to tour every constituency at least three times before the general election is called next year. As he celebrates 30 years in politics, Mr Kenny knows the next 12 months will make or break his political career and his bid to become the next Taoiseach. Party strategists have already mapped out a monthly campaign plan up until the calling of the election, likely in May or June. Against the odds, Mr Kenny has brought about a recovery in his party's fortunes since the election disaster in 2002. Nonetheless, he faces a huge challenge with the Labour Party to win enough seats to form the next coalition. Working with Labour leader Pat Rabbitte - a fellow Mayo man - he has forged a pre-election alliance in a bid to offer a clear alternative government to the electorate at the next election. To mark his 30th year in politics we put a series of questions to Mr Kenny. If you were coming out of Croke Park on a warm summer day, dying with thirst and the only nearby pub that was open was Fagan's (the Taoiseach's favourite watering hole) would you go in for a drink? Yes, I've been in Fagan's several times although Bertie wasn't there. The great thing about the GAA is you can leave the differences behind after the game. If the Taoiseach had been there I'd have bought him a pint! Can you ever see the day when you would wholeheartedly trust Gerry Adams? I'd like to believe this day will come, and that will be progress in its own right. Who or what inspires you? Courage. I have great admiration for people who push themselves to the limits of human endurance to achieve a goal. What was your worst day/best day in politics so far? The counting of votes in the 2002 general election was a really, really awful day. I managed to hang on myself but it was terrible to see so many colleagues falling like ninepins right around the country. I'll tell you this, though, the best day is on its way! Will there be a united Ireland in your lifetime? I believe it is much more important to build and develop political structures that will allow us all to work closer on economics, sporting, tourism and so many other common areas that can deliver long lasting peace and prosperity. Was the original abortion referendum a mistake? In hindsight, it was a mistake. It gave rise to a lot of confusion and proved to be very divisive. What is the first policy change you would want to see fully implemented if elected Taoiseach? I want to see the changes to the Freedom of Information Act reversed. I still don't accept the decision of the existing government ministers to curtail the scope of this law. Of all the people you have seen enter or leave the Dail who is/was least suited to a life in politics? I suppose the one person I felt who it all went wrong for was the late David Thornley. He was a brilliant man. Then again, you look at the likes of the late John Kelly and few would have thought he would make an impact coming from an academic background. Yet he thrived on politics and was hugely influential. All kinds of people come into the Dail with the power of the ballot box and some never get past one Dail term. It's a tough business. Is ruthlessness a necessary quality to thrive in politics? It's not. But decisiveness is. If you are going to do the job well you have to be decisive and make decisions on what you believe is right. Is Bertie Ahern really just a good spoofer as distinct from being a good Taoiseach? I try to avoid reducing politics to personalities. But it is fair to say this: Bertie Ahern came to office with a lot of hopes and he could have achieved so much more over the years. Is President George W Bush a force for good or bad? Well, history will judge that. There is no doubt, though, that he has polarised opinions on a range of issues. Be that as it may, he is still the democratically elected leader of the United States. If you had to cast Michael McDowell in 'Juno and the Paycock', would it be as the under-achieving work-shy, Captain Boyle or as the scheming, chancer Joxer Daly? I would not cast him in either role. In the week that's in it, some of the roles I have in mind might be misconstrued! Maybe I'll settle for understudy to Captain Boyle. Have Bono and Geldof more political clout than government leaders on issues related to Africa? Yes, they can, and do, influence political leaders and there is no conflict here. It is critical they deliver their message and that leaders take that on board. It is not a question of who has the most clout. What is your biggest political weakness? There's enough people out there only too willing and ready to do that job so I'm not going to help them. Was Brian Kerr's record with the Irish team really that bad? He did his best for the country but he seems to have lost the dressing room battle. He became manager of Ireland around the same time I became leader of Fine Gael. I'll tell you, I certainly envied some of the media coverage he got at the outset. Now that Roy Keane is coming to the end of his football career should he be asked to sort out the A&E crisis? His very distinctive trait of insisting that things get done, and get done right is certainly badly needed to deal with the A&Es. Mind you, Roy sent a few to the A&E during his playing career. He served the sport well and whenever he decides to hang up his boots he deserves some peace. Looking back, did the formation of the PDs inflict a long-term body blow to Fine Gael? I think it did have an impact, particularly in the beginning. But we have lost seats, won back seats. Wait until after the next election and you will get a better answer to that question. To become Taoiseach how many parties would you be willing to take into a coalition? We have entered an alliance with the Labour Party to fight the next general election on a shared platform. The people will make a judgment on that. SAM SMYTH 
