politics
{  
    June 23 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/no-damage-done-as-wind-shakes-the-pds-barley-26381186.html }
WHAT a lively little party the Progressive Democrats are, full of vim and vigour, relentlessly forcing themselves on our attention no matter with what. The latest spat has been elevated to a crisis, but it might just as well be seen as an effective public relations exercise, raising the profile, demonstrating the abundant talent, offering evidence of performance prospects that WHAT a lively little party the Progressive Democrats are, full of vim and vigour, relentlessly forcing themselves on our attention no matter with what. The latest spat has been elevated to a crisis, but it might just as well be seen as an effective public relations exercise, raising the profile, demonstrating the abundant talent, offering evidence of performance prospects that are anything but exhausted. I start from a position that is often stated. I admire the Progressive Democrats, want them to stay in business, believe in their contribution to political life and like the way they think about politics and the way they operate in power. I think they will face difficulties in the next election of an unprecedented kind and that a great deal of their thought and energy - and now their strategy, on which they have agreed - is directed towards achieving power again at the next election though with a different electoral approach from that adopted in 1997, which changed again for 2002. Their task will be more difficult than before, but not impossible. The rationale for continued partnership with Fianna Fail is less clear-cut than it was in the last election. Nevertheless, it is still there. And it is still governed by the fact that writing off Bertie Ahern and Fianna Fail for a third term in power is foolish thinking. Consequently the importance of the Progressive Democrats staying within that partnership is an obvious one. At the same time the PDs are the only party that lies easily in the middle between either a Fine Gael-led administration or one with Bertie at its helm. They have been open and up-front about this potential diversity of role. It is one of their great strengths as a political organisation that they move easily within the political circus, offering an attractive mix of ideology and personality, of talent, and of a certain elusive, political charm. I like the dogged way in which Mary Harney took on the worst possible department, that of Health, and beavered away at what seemed a virtually impossible task - of getting health right. As for Michael McDowell, he has been brave, resourceful and intelligent in handling most issues in Justice. Perhaps not all of them, it must be said, but he has been competent and enlivening to a degree. We need to remember that this is a very successful political party. It works as an organisation and it has enjoyed a quite remarkable share of power since its foundation. It changed Irish politics in a radical way when it took on the role of political watchdog over Charles Haughey, forcing him to accept coalition and demonstrating that it was not done for his sake but as a protective mechanism for the country against his possible excess or misdemeanour. That was how they viewed him, and they were right so to do. They performed a similar task with Bertie Ahern and have been responsible on a number of specific occasions in keeping him up to the mark in terms of the integrity of office. They have managed this without undue pomposity or any hard-line ideological structure. They are pragmatic and realistic, and it makes them a significant and flexible political force when contrasted with their coalition partners. They are as flexible with the other three parties with whom they might form the next administration. All of the other parties have ideological hang-ups, Fianna Fail with republicanism, the Greens with a list of issues as long as your arm, Labour, currently, with not wanting to join with Fianna Fail, and Fine Gael with the same identity issue. Part of the attraction of the PDs is that they move easily within this compelling matrix of Irish political life. A great deal more of the attraction, however, is due to the party's disproportionate level of talent and good judgment. Good judgment is an unusual criterion. I rate it very highly and always look for it first in political decision-making. Applied to all the parties, irrespective of their size and political strength, a surprising order of merit emerges, with PDs first, Greens second, Labour third, Fine Gael fourth, Fianna Fail fifth and Sinn Fein sixth and last by a long measure. It will immediately be seen that the limiting factor, the one that brings down the quality of judgment, is concern with party objectives at the expense of national ones. This is certainly the worst aspect of Sinn Fein and is a serious handicap with Fianna Fail. It is less so with Fine Gael, and in the case of Labour is ameliorated substantially by the quality of thought and justice that the party has applied to so many social issues in working out what it stands for. The Greens are similar; they believe in so many good things and are only handicapped by the fact that too many voters fail to support their green earth dreams, or their organic interpretation of life. If at this point, dear reader, you are wondering why I have not related the matter of the political attributes of the PDs to their week of leadership dispute, I will tell you. As Gene McKenna wisely described it yesterday, the reported dispute between Mary Harney and Michael McDowell was "a mini-crisis". That is how I rate it. Michael McDowell is likely to succeed Mary Harney but more appropriately after the next election rather than before it. She is quite correct in claiming that she will fight the leadership contest after the election is over; that is her right, and the decision is consistent with the electoral strategy agreed this week, a strategy designed to see the party back in power again. In what I think is probably the unlikely event of this failing there is every possibility that she would be defeated and who then would succeed her is dependent on how other members of the PDs conduct themselves in that election and which of them retain their seats. Neither I nor the PDs see that eventuality in present circumstances, and the mini-crisis reinforces my gut instinct that it really is mini. It will not damage the party in any serious way. It will not harm Mary Harney nor Michael McDowell, nor will it undermine the positions of other members, a surprising number of whom are potential leadership material. Can one say the same of Fianna Fail? Is not Bertie showing signs of battle fatigue? Are any of his senior lieutenants demonstrating even an ounce of the outspoken, liberal activism of members of the party with whom they share power? Does one see an equivalent abundance of talent ready to take over from Enda Kenny, in the event of him failing to win, or of Pat Rabbitte in the same circumstances? I think not. The situation within the Progressive Democrats includes lively competition and this must mean they have confidence in their own future and in their ability to survive and prosper. And I mean all of the party, its whole membership, from the two leading ministers to the grass roots. Nothing serious or fundamental has shaken them. The shaking has been like wind in the barley, a newspaper story that has let us in on party behaviour and debate with the result of healthy analysis and speculation. That is all that has happened. Mark my words. And such a relief after Haughey. 
