politics
{ Colin Murphy 
    July 05 2008 04:02 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/incoming/playing-at-politics-26459577.html }
Six years ago, an awkward attempt by a leading writer to merge the personal and the political in a play based at least in part on the life of an ex Taoiseach led to some stringent criticism. Now, another writer is tackling the private life of another Taoiseach. Patrick Talbot, artistic director of Cork's Everyman Palace Theatre and first-time playwright, is, you might think, either very brave, or very naïve. Sebastian Barry's Hinterland met with some good reviews and good houses on its short tour in 2002. But a vitriolic response from some leading commentators -- Eileen Battersby in the Irish Times found it "a vulgar travesty" and "silly trash" -- saw Barry denounced for a gratuitously hurtful invasion of the private lives of the then-ailing Charles Haughey and his family. Barry denied the play had anything to do with the Haugheys: he said he had simply used some of the architecture of events that surrounded them to write a play that was in fact, allegorically, about his own family. Barry was hurt by the rejection of his play, which in many cases extended personally to its author. But if that wound must have largely healed with the success of his 2005 novel, A Long, Long Way, the failure of Hinterland may have had more lasting impact elsewhere. It was a salutary lesson to anyone with ideas of putting Irish politics, or politicians, on stage. It is striking how little we have seen of such political theatre in Ireland. There is a small handful of political plays in the canon (Sean O'Casey's The Plough and the Stars; Brian Friel's Translations; Frank McGuinness's Observe the Sons of Ulster Marching Towards the Somme) and a scattering of contemporary writers (such as Dermot Bolger and Donal O'Kelly) who insistently tackle political issues. But this work all tends to deal with the impact of high politics on 'low' people, rarely tackling the politicians themselves. (O'Kelly's Operation Easter, about 1916, was a gratifying exception.) And in the country that has supposedly raised tribunals to an art form, there has been little interest in making art out of the tribunals. While the Tricycle Theatre in London has forged a theatrical movement out of Britain's public inquiries, our tribunals have merely given rise to nightly re-enactments on Vincent Browne's late (in both senses) radio show, and a stage revue which arose from them. Is there something missing in the Irish theatrical psyche? "We tend to be very slow to react to current events here," says Patrick Talbot. "And Irish theatre has tended always to focus on the personal rather than the political." One of the most exciting theatrical experiences Talbot has had in recent years was on a Saturday afternoon at The National in London for David Hare's Stuff Happens, a part-documentary, part-fictionalised treatment of the run-up to the invasion of Iraq. "It was so refreshing to watch theatre unfold almost as the real events were happening," he says, calling it akin to "theatre as journalism". Talbot is a fan of the tribunals and of their innate, if understated, theatre. Some time around the end of last year, an image came to him, "of a Taoiseach visiting his ex-wife very late one particular night, because he has run out of places to go. "He says: 'I'm not one to hide, but I've run out of places where I can be myself'." The image became a play, and the Taoiseach became Willie Dunne, from Dublin's Northside. Dunne's finances are being investigated by a tribunal. One Tuesday, news leaks that the tribunal has in its possession a recording of a conversation 15 years previously, when Dunne was Minister for Finance, between Dunne and a developer. There is a media storm. The tribunal announces it will release the transcript of the tape on the Thursday. Dunne is "a Taoiseach under siege": he seeks "sanctuary" in the family home, says Talbot. But there are tensions there, as well, as his daughter learns of elements of her father's past from the newspapers, not from him, and because Dunne's ex-wife, Rita, faces the prospect of a new independence, should her ex-husband be forced to retreat from the public glare. The plays' three key scenes are set in her home, and Talbot called the play after her, Rita Dunne. He explains his play's relationship to actual politics cautiously, but insistently. "The events of the Mahon tribunal are the springboard for the play ... But this is not, in any respect, an impersonation of Bertie Ahern. Willie Dunne is a very different person." For all Talbot's interest in political theatre, this is not explicitly a political piece. Rather, he says, it is about the potential conflict between the private and public lives of politicians; in particular, "how public controversy is dealt with privately". Will that be enough to keep the critics, and commentators, from calling foul? "I don't know these people at a private level," says Talbot. "This can only be an imaginative act." Sebastian Barry might have said the same. If Talbot's play is to be at all successful in probing the private aspect of a public figure whose circumstances are based on those of Bertie Ahern, then the play will inevitably run the risk of accusations of insensitivity. But the reaction to it will, in the first place, depend on how good it is. (Talbot has kept the script close to his chest, not wanting it to be pre-judged.) If he can succeed in illuminating the personal at the heart of the political, provoking us to greater insight into the lives and struggles of the people who become our leaders, and those who stand behind them, he will have done the state some service. Rita Dunne opens in the Civic Theatre, Tallaght, on July 8, and moves to the Everyman Palace, Cork, on July 21 cmurphy@independent.ie 
