politics
{  
    November 17 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/fine-gael-to-go-for-two-candidate-strategy-26924967.html }
Two separate battles, at opposite ends of the constituency, are to decide the front runners for Fine Gael at the next General Election. The party, determined to avoid the mistakes of 1997, when it disastrously ran a three-member ticket instead of two, is on a mission to perfect its vote management strategy. The pain of the last election is still palpable .. it came tantalisingly close to securing two Dáil seats, when Fergus O’Dowd lost out by a mere 381 votes. His consolation prize was a Senate seat....but this time he’s aiming higher. Party chiefs preparing for the election, and in the shorter term, this Thursday’s selection convention in Castlebellingham, say Senator O’Dowd and Councillor Oliver Tully will battle it out in the south of the constituency. In the north, there is drama of a different nature. This week heralded the end of one of the most colourful political careers in the country, when the party’s sitting TD Brendan McGahon, announced he would not be seeking re-election. ‘I will not be standing for the election, even if the Holy Ghost contacts me,’ he said on Tuesday, referring to his famous decision to contest the 1997 election after conferring with the Holy Ghost. Up to 600 delegates will be entitled to vote at this Thursday’s FG selection convention to select what many hope will be two candidates – the final say, of course, resting with the National Executive. Some believe it’s a neck-and-neck battle between O’Dowd, who has built up his national profile as a Senator, and Baltray Councillor Tully, who has taken credit for introducing several new members to the party. The other big contenders are Deputy McGahon’s brother Johnny, Terry Brennan and Jim Lennon. Finnan McCoy and Jim D’Arcy bring to seven the number of nominations, and all are sitting Councillors. The consensus among delegates seems to be in favour of a two-member ticket, proving that the memories of the McGahon-O’Dowd-Brennan strategy last time, only succeeded in splitting the vote. Deputy McGahon’s decision not to accept a nomination to run again, marks the end of almost two decades of political involvement at national level. He is nationally renowned for his outspoken views, most controversially on the IRA and on working wives, during his 18 years in Dáil. And he says now is the ideal time for Fine Gael – whom he refers to as ‘the party with standards’ – to capitalise on sleaze factor in Irish politics recent years. ‘The next election will not be as much a test of the political system as a test of the Irish people; what do they want in politics? The revelations of the last five years have been horrifying and disillusioning to me. ‘What has come out has been awful, hasn’t helped the political system and caused an awful lot of disillusionment with young people. In the next election, the ball will be in the people’s court,’ he said. This, and other factors, have led to his own disillusionment with the political game. As far back as 1993, McGahon said that: ‘despite the man in the street’s opinion, a TD’s life is a bloody awful one’. His feeling now about politics is that everyone is dispensable. ‘I was never fully in love with politics and the political system. I did enjoy working for people and got personal gratification by helping people, but as for the snarling – bullshit. I didn’t go a political meeting until I was 42, I really did not have any aspiration at all, but I was the type of person that had strong views and I always reserved the right to express them. ‘I grew disillusioned over the years with the political system, but having said that, I think we have a wonderful country today because of that system.’ He said he had mixed feelings of relief and regret over what is now certain to be his final farewell to politics, but said he would remain actively involved in Fine Gael and will be assisting the election campaign and proposing his brother Johnny for the nomination. Deputy McGahon’s straight talking has not always been directed at elements outside Fine Gael. He angrily claimed that his own members ‘unceremoniously dumped’ him twice while a sitting TD. He made headlines again in 1993 when calling for the death sentence for IRA terrorists. In 1986, he said young people out of work should be given a shovel instead of social welfare. 
