politics
{ Carol Hunt 
    June 16 2013 03:05 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/carol-hunt-opportunist-allies-are-a-total-turn-off-29348151.html }
For a few moments it seemed like there was hope for Ireland. The meeting room was thronged; all seats taken, people standing, sitting, and spilling out in to the hallways and on the staircase; the political handlers excitedly attempting to clear the entrance for the two speakers of the evening. There were, the posters had assured us, Alternatives for Ireland, and an angry and disillusioned people looked to have come out to hear them. Perhaps a new political party would emerge from this meeting, perhaps there was another way? But just two minutes after the first speaker (economist Professor Ray Kinsella) took to the stage, it was obvious that this wasn't a gathering of citizens interested in changing the face of Irish politics; this was Rent-a-Crowd. For about an hour, the good professor explained to the adoring crowd how "abortion and misguided austerity are interconnected". I kid you not. This father of 10 children insisted that "austerity and abortion are inextricably bound up, both destructive of the individual and both are being pursued contrary to the truth and the facts". It was then that a few of us realised we were outsiders at a "Pro-life" rally. I wished I hadn't worn such a bright red top – this crowd didn't look as if they would have much time for a pro-choice, atheist member of the "liberal media". Was I imagining the dirty looks from the front row of very young people? "I didn't come here to listen to an economist talk about abortion," shouted a brave voice from the back. "I'm pro-choice and I thought I was coming to a political meeting," said another. When Kinsella asked to be allowed to say his piece uninterrupted, the overwhelming cheers, stamps and roars of approval ensured that no-one dared express a pro-choice view for the rest of his – or Declan Ganley's – speech. Ah, yes Mr Ganley. Nattily dressed in a light brown jacket and blue shirt, the hero of the evening took to the stage amid thunderous applause. He said he was humbled and overwhelmed. He didn't look it. He started off by comparing himself to Winston Churchill: saying, "success is the ability to go from one failure to another without any loss of enthusiasm". "I'm a natural optimist," he said, "but there's not much to be optimistic about in Ireland at the moment." The crowd cheered. Ganley has some good ideas. He said the tax system could be made fairer by abolishing loopholes availed of by the richest members of society, and using the proceeds to cut taxes for the middle class and those who worked hard for low pay. He said those who work hardest are punished for it. He talked about the hardship of people in debt, the unemployed; of parents with children on the other side of the world. He wants to reform the welfare system to provide a guaranteed single payment for the unemployed – and for the "genuinely in need". "It's not fair," he said controversially, "that some families are earning a living on welfare while the rest of us work." He believes bankruptcy should not be "a life sentence of debt servitude", that "talented people" who fail should "find the floor quickly" and then get a "second chance and a third and fourth chance if necessary". Ganley also believes in a federal Europe where power comes from the bottom up. Many would agree with him. He believes that we need to forget consensus politics and get on to conviction politics. Where our parliament is concerned, he quipped: "Mr Kenny wants to abolish the Seanad but he has turned the Dail into a creche." But none of this was what the vast majority of the crowd had come to hear – politics, schmolitics, you could almost hear them say – go on Ganley, get on to the REAL topic! They wanted to hear the "A" word – and not the austerity one. Ganley didn't disappoint. "Issues of conscience should never be the subject of a whip," he said. "Hear, hear!" yelled the crowd. "I don't think any Fine Gael TD went into politics to vote for Eamon Gilmore's conscience," he said (roars of approval). And the anti-abortion rhetoric continued: "I believe in life. I believe in human rights, in the sacred idea that no human life is the property or can be wholly owned by another. I believe in the conviction that every individual is created equally and uniquely and it is never our right to take another human life as individuals or the State." The crowd was jubilant; or at least the 80-plus per cent who seemed to be part of the "pro-life" lobby. The rest of us – even those who may have agreed with some of Ganley's arguments; who would like to see his suggestions discussed in political circles; who are desperate to see a new political party – just felt alienated. And therein lies the problem with this "Rent-a-Crowd" approach to politics. Yes, it's nice to have allies, to have people cheer and clap you, and tell you you're a great man. But this particular lobby group has only one aim: no legislating for the X-case. No abortion in Ireland. Ever. But in a few months this legislation will be passed and Ganley's usefulness in highlighting their cause will have ended. Meanwhile, those citizens who are genuinely concerned with reform, with new politics, who may have been persuaded by Ganley's reforming ideals, will have been turned off by his current allies. It looks suspiciously like opportunism, you see. And not particularly clever opportunism at that. Advice to Mr Ganley? Choose your advisers and your allies wisely. Because you know what they say: by his friends shall ye know him. Irish Independent 
