politics
{  
    October 12 2008 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/man-of-mystery-or-an-open-book-just-who-is-the-real-brian-cowen-26484033.html }
THE Lions Club "do" at the Bridge Hotel in Tullamore was the kind of knees up that would normally be right up Brian Cowen's street. Fed up with being left to hold the fort for the Ladies Lunch organised each year by Cowen's wife, Mary, the menfolk of Offaly retaliated last Friday week with a lads only charity fundraiser. No champagne and dainty canapes here. There were free pints of Guinness and Carlsberg in the lobby and a hearty meat-heavy buffet. Johnny Giles gave them a pep talk and the host was Michael Duignan, the Offaly hurler and panellist on their favourite TV show, The Sunday Game. All that was missing was Offaly's most famous son. "A lot of them would be his closest colleagues, all the business people in town. He would've loved it," said a friend and fellow Offalian. "Someone reported that Cowen's helicopter had flown into the Tullamore Harriers and would he show. . ." He didn't. As his county-men revelled in drink and song, Cowen spent the night at his family home, on the road to Birr, preparing for an early morning cabinet meeting to consider the most onerous and hair shirt Budget this country has seen in decades. "In a different situation, he would have been in the middle of that, you know," said his friend wistfully. Times have changed for Cowen. High office has tempered his socialising and he puts in "savage long days", said one source. The job has also attracted curiosity about his private life, something friends say he detests. One of the first things he told the media was that his family were off limits. He and Mary have two daughters, Sinead, 16, and Maedhbh, 10, both of whom attend local schools. But with the status of Taoiseach comes the demand for his story. Cue the first biography, Brian Cowen: The Path to Power, by Jason O'Toole. Due out next month, it remains to be seen whether the biography will reveal new depths to the man once known as the "country" version of Bertie Ahern. Cowen was not averse to shedding light on himself, sitting down to several hours of interviews with the author over the summer months. The choice of author was also interesting. Some believe it a measure of the man that the worthy cabal of eminent political biographers was passed over in favour of a Hot Press journalist who specialises in in-your-face interviews in which some politicians court cool by confessing to past indiscretions. When O'Toole interviewed him for the music magazine before last year's general election, Cowen admitted to smoking a joint. "Anyone who went to the UCD (University College Dublin) bar in the Seventies that didn't get a whiff of marijuana would be telling you a lie. I would say there were a couple of occasions when it was passed around -- and, unlike President Clinton, I did inhale," he said. Spliffo Biffo went the headlines. Far from being annoyed, Cowen struck up an unlikely acquaintance with O'Toole. When the journalist was promoted to senior editor at Hot Press a few months after doing the interview, Cowen sent him a text message saying "congratulations". O'Toole reciprocated on the day Cowen became Taoiseach. "Just who is Brian Cowen?" goes the blurb, hinting at hidden depths to be plumbed. To the party faithful in his home constituency of Laois Offaly, there is no mystery. He's the guy who would have been in the middle of that knees up in the Bridge Hotel in Tullamore, his big face upturned, eyes closed, bellowing out some ballad or other. It was Bertie Ahern, his predecessor, who was the enigma, the Teflon Taoiseach who was loved by strangers but, in some ways, a stranger to even his closest colleagues. He was the man Charles Haughey famously described as "the most skilful, cunning and devious of them all". "For all his popularity there were some backbenchers and junior ministers who would not dream of approaching him. Others did," said one former political colleague last week. Not so Cowen. Despite his Rottweiler image, his supporters speak in unison of his loyalty, friendship and candidness. He has ambitions, not notions, he is one of their own. The Sunday Independent report of the newly crowned Taoiseach on his holidays this summer, unpretentiously dunking digestives while sitting in a neighbour's mobile home in Galway did more for his tribal appeal than anything a PR man could dream up. Cowen owes much of his kudos with the party faithful to his sturdy Fianna Fail lineage. Raised in Clara, once a prosperous trading town on the River Brosna in Offaly, his grandfather, Christy, was a councillor and founding father of Fianna Fail. His father, Bernard, was a councillor and TD, during the Seventies and early Eighties. He supported Charles Haughey against Jack Lynch in 1979, and was rewarded with a junior ministry in agriculture. Bernard and Albert Reynolds, then a Longford TD, used to travel to Dublin together. All of that bestowed a certain status on the family, and ensured a comfortable income, supplemented by the pub, an undertaking business and, at one stage, a butcher's shop. There was also a parcel of land which they farmed. Bernard and his wife, Mae, had three sons, Christy, Brian and Barry. They went to the local national school and from there to the Cistercian college in Roscrea, where his uncle was a priest. Cowen was blooded in the art of political rhetoric as a teenager. He was the warm up act for his father after Mass during election time. He learnt who to trust working in his father's pub. "I was reared in a pub -- as a young fellow serving in the pub, I learnt far more there about human nature than I learnt in any university or school. I think it gave me a great insight into people." He likes to give the impression that he never had to work that hard for his success. He told one interviewer that he chose to study law at University College Dublin because there were only eight hours of lectures in first year. "I liked law. I found it did not over-exercise my time," he said. He was also pragmatist. Within a couple of years of graduating, he set up his own legal practice. He was 24. That year, his father, Ber died suddenly at the age of 52. A few months later his son won the by-election to take his father's place as TD for Laois Offaly. Cowen later cited his father as his political hero, wishing that he had more of his "reserve". In Leinster House, Albert Reynolds took him under his wing. Cowen supported Reynolds in the heave against Haughey in 1991. Reynolds later plucked him from the back benches at the age of 32, making him Minister for Labour in 1992. There was no over the top display of gratitude. "I was called into Albert's office 35 minutes before he went into the Dail. He said he was giving me the Department of Labour and that he thought I should be part of the team. I said thanks and hoped it would work out," he said matter-of-factly at the time. That sort of insouciance typified Cowen. He was not one to be seen to be getting overexcited. He assumed an insolent-looking slouch in his seat in Leinster House. He dismissed political ideologies as mumbo jumbo. Centre left or centre right? "People in this country don't have to listen to that sort of nonsense," he said in an interview in 1997. On another occasion many years ago he dismissed the Greens as a luxury enjoyed by the affluent. "People who don't have problems anymore have the luxury of voting Green ... ", he said. In the early years, some quarters complained of his unkempt appearance. Cowen made his name amongst Fianna Fail backbenchers by tearing strips off enemies in the Dail, elaborate wind-ups and mimicking his colleagues in the Dail bar. One story has it that his talent for mimicry tricked a fellow deputy into believing he had landed a junior ministry. It was 1989 and Charles Haughey was picking his juniors. A call came through to the TD from Padraig O hUiginn, asking him to stand by for a telephone call from Haughey. The anxious deputy spent the day on tenterhooks in his office, waiting for the phone call while Brian Cowen was downstairs in the Dail bar regaling colleagues with his prank. He was also belligerent. In 1991 Jim McDaid was forced to stand down as Minister for Defence after a photograph emerged of the Donegal TD cheering with the IRA Maze escapee, James Pius Clarke. Michael Noonan, the Fine Gael TD, led the opposition outrage. On the night he stood down, McDaid retired to Jury's with his pals, including Cowen. When the hapless Noonan wandered into the bar that evening, Cowen squared up to him angrily. Skin and hair didn't fly that night but Noonan was treated to a choice stream of verbal abuse from the salty-tongued Offaly deputy. In those days of late nights and long lunches, drinking was unquestionably socially acceptable amongst the professional classes. In fact, it was McDaid who highlighted the culture. McDaid later wondered if he was demoted from his junior ministry after a particularly riotous Fianna Fail think-in in Inchydoney. Although once pals, Cowen berated McDaid last week for failing to show for a crucial Dail vote on the banks bailout. Newspaper profiles of Cowen never failed to include discreet references to his enjoyment of "a pint or two". Nor was this something he ever tried to conceal. However, Cowen was livid when his presentation of his first budget as Minister for Finance in 2004 was accompanied by allegations of after-hours boozing in the hostelry he retired to after delivering his speech. The political commentator, Olivia O'Leary, wrote witheringly several years ago that he had yet to learn that leaders can't behave like corner boys. The finesse he has since tried to cultivate on attaining high office is prone to lapse. During his first cabinet meetings, government sources commented unhappily on his dictatorial style. He jeered that he could have Enda Kenny, of Fine Gael, silenced in the House. Kenny retorted by characterising him as an "out of control" control freak. The public saw the force of his blunt tongue when an expletive laden aside was unwittingly caught on the Dail microphones. During a heated exchange, he turned to Mary Coughlan, his Tanaiste, and said "get those f*****s on the phone". His spokespeople later apologetically insisted that he was not referring to the opposition. It appeared little had changed from 10 years ago when he declared in a newspaper interview: "I rebel against uniformity in politics. I rebel against blandness in politics. I am probably inherently politically incorrect. I revel in that because I don't want to be politically correct. I regard politics as a real business. It's about real people and you have to be real yourself. I am who I am. There are things that people may find not very attractive in my personality but that's who I am." Cowen's boot boy image is at odds with what he is like in private. "He doesn't act aggressively like that in company or individually. He is extremely sociable and very open about things. He is very frank, even about his colleagues or anything. I have often had a few pints with him and you could draw him out about anything," said a one-time political rival. Barry Cowen, the Taoiseach's younger brother, and himself a Fianna Fail councillor said last week that what you see with Cowen is what you get. That may well be, but there is a lingering whiff of enigma around his succession of Bertie Ahern in April. Did Bertie go or was he pushed? Brian Cowen has always said that he brought no influence to bear on Ahern's decision to resign. However, informed sources say his departure was the result of weeks of careful choreography by Cowen and his senior cabinet colleagues. He was already planning his take-over before Bertie Ahern was gone. The Mahon tribunal had been chipping away at Bertie Ahern over his finances and it was true that Cowen batted for the then Taoiseach. He had been anointed as Bertie's successor, his apparently effortless popularity wiping the eye of would-be rivals in Dermot Ahern and Micheal Martin. "Why would he need to push," said one associate. "And remember his loyalty. The last thing he would want is to be seen plotting against a Fianna Fail leader." The turning point for the party came when Mary Coughlan appeared on The Week in Politics. She refused to endorse the Taoiseach, dodging questions about whether she believed his evidence. That effectively signaled the end of the Ahern era. According to informed sources, the approaches from Cowen to Ahern began soon afterwards. "Cowen and Bertie had several meetings about the mounting concern both within and outside the Fianna Fail party about Bertie's personal finances," said a source. While there was a deep sense of loyalty to Bertie, Cowen raised the impact this could have on the image of the government, the party and on Bertie himself. The turning point for Bertie Ahern, however, came just before Easter week -- and Cowen was not even in the country. He was on holiday with his family in Vietnam. Ahern's former secretary, Grainne Carruth, testified tearfully about the infamous sterling lodgments to his account. The public perception of Bertie's troubles shifted. One supporter of Bertie Ahern said he was deeply wounded by what he felt was the false characterisation that he had hung out his secretary to save his own ass. Bertie Ahern kept a low-profile during Easter week. Cowen flew back from holiday that Thursday and went straight to a meeting with Ahern. Cowen later confirmed that when he left the meeting, he knew that Ahern was already considering his position. "There was no conditionality or coercion, that is not the relationship I have with Bertie Ahern," he later said. "Over that weekend I know he was considering the position and I respect the conclusion that he came to." Ahern resigned on the Tuesday following that meeting. An informed source said Cowen's face to face meetings with Bertie certainly helped things to happen sooner than they would have otherwise. Interestingly, Barry Cowen said last week that his brother had had weeks to prepare for becoming Taoiseach. "As regards his accession to Taoiseach, he had a few weeks to prepare. He knew he would be in the running for it," said Barry Cowen. "He did take time to consider his options, and spoke to his family about it. I certainly wouldn't seek to influence him in any way. My advice was if you feel up to the job, and you have the support of the family, then take it." Cowen is reported to have given a frank account of those encounters with Bertie Ahern to his biographer. But we will need to hear Bertie Ahern's side of the story to know whether Brian Cowen shares some of the skill, deviousness and cunning once attributed to his predecessor. 
