politics
{ Esther HAYDEN 
    August 14 2009 08:37 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/lifestyle/movies-and-politics-always-had-a-central-part-in-the-life-of-keith-27327084.html }
TO SAY Keith Doyle has a mixed political background is understatement. The Enniscorthy native has just been elected to Wexford County Council at his first time of asking on a Fianna Fail ticket, having being a town councillor for the past fifteen years. While politics has always been part and parcel of the Doyle family, anyone interested was allowed to plough their own furrow and the views of the father were not foisted on the son. Keith's grandfather, Tom, was a Fine Gael councillor while his late father Andy was a Labour councillor. Keith himself was a member of the now defunct Progressive Democrats for a few years before jumping ship to the Fianna Fail camp as he believed at the time they took care of the young, the old and the infirm. 'I think the mixed background is why I get on so well with other parties. At my first ever county council meeting the Labour councillors were congratulating me and I have a high regard for them. I also work well with Paddy Kavanagh of Fine Gael,' he says. 'My grandfather was in the old IRA before the Fenians and fought in Enniscorthy in 1916. He was captured in Wales and while imprisoned aligned himself with Michael Collins and that's how he became involved with Fine Gael. ' My father got involved with Labour as at the time Johnny O'Leary was running for the Dail my father and grandfather backed his campaign because they wanted a local TD. He became a Labour TD for Wexford and that's how my father became involved with Labour.' Despite the political divide between father and son Keith said there was never any problem with him joining first the PDs and then Fianna Fail. 'My father never allowed politics to cause animosity between us. In fact once he knew I wanted to join Fianna Fail he spoke to Michael Sinnott and Peter Byrne to pave the way and between them they made representations on my behalf and I became a member in 1980.' Keith left the PDs in favour of Fianna Fail because although he didn't think much of Charlie Haughey he liked their policies and felt he could do more for Enniscorthy as a Fianna Fail councillor. However he did make his mark in the PDs and was the first speaker at their inaugural conference in Dublin. But it was more accident than design. 'I was only 19 years old at the time and I put in a motion for the conference. When I arrived I was seated in the fifth seat and was preparing myself to speak. I hadn't even put on my jacket or tie but when the conference started the first four speakers were late and I was called up. It was funny as I was putting on my jacket and tie while going up to the podium to speak!' When Keith's father, a sitting Labour councillor, died in office Labour co-opted one of their own to his seat but in 1994 Keith, running on a Fianna Fail ticket, took back the Doyle seat, albeit under different colours. However he missed his first ever council meeting as he had already booked a holiday to America to watch the World Cup. During his 15 years as a town councillors where he learnt his trade from party colleagues such as John Browne and Peter Byrne and Fine Gael's Ivan Yates, he held the chair three times, the most memorable of which was in 1998. 'It was a very high profile year because of the 1798 celebrations and there was a lot going on. I got to visit a lot of countries representing Wexford and the most interesting trip was to Newfoundland because of their connection with Wexford.' Growing up Keith worked in the family business of Astor Cinema on Weafer Street in the town. 'One of my greatest memories is when the Life of Brian came out. My father banned it in the cinema but I was able to get a bootleg copy of it and my friends and I watched it.' The cinema remains in his blood long after the family had any vested interest in it. 'I actually still live in the cinema and I have kept it as true to form as possible. The stairs are the same and the height of the roof is the same. My kitchen used to be the projection room. I tried to make it as much into a living area as possible but kept it as much as I could like a cinema. I still have an old projector and we kept the old seats too. They are now in my brother's house in America.' A keen GAA enthusiast Keith follows the Wexford football team all over Ireland for league and county matches and while fortune didn't smile on the team this year he said he had seen their potential building over the past five years. He is also a regular umpire. He also has a love of horses although his involvement has waned since his youth. 'I used to work for Jim Bolger when he was in Clonsilla and I learnt a lot from him. Unfortunately I didn't stay in the industry because at the time the country was heading into a recession and the prices of horses collapsed. I didn't think there was much future in horses but things came back. 'My father also had a good horse called Daring Run which was placed a few times in Cheltenham and won the Irish Champion Hurdle three times. He also came fifth in the Irish Grand National.' Keith said that although the country is in the grips of a recession councils need to be planning ahead to improve services in the town. 'If a town council is stagnant in its progression of amenities and streetscapes it doesn't help a town attract new businesses and services.' However despite his obvious love of politics it has taken its toll on his personal life. 'Politics consumes your life. It is hard work and I take my hat off to anyone it in. It has affected me personally. Any girlfriend never understood politics. It is very hard on them. It is different if you are married and you go into politics. If you are going out with someone who doesn't understand the nature of politics that if you are out socially people can come up and interrupt you it can be difficult. It certainly has impacted on friends who are not so involved in politics and who don't understand the level of commitment needed.' In these difficult times Keith said the betterment of Enniscorthy is still his number one priority. 'We have a project of pedestrianisation on the main shopping areas and we have put money aside to do up all the parks and an extension of the walkways by the River Slaney is also planned. Every local authority needs to be imaginative now in how their conduct their business.' 
