politics
{ Mandy Johnston 
    February 18 2017 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/mandy-johnston/the-taoiseach-and-his-advisers-have-turned-mismanagement-of-a-crisis-into-a-veritable-art-form-35461374.html }
There is always one fate-defining moment in the demise of a political leader. Taoiseach Enda Kenny had his moment on RTÉ's 'This Week' programme last Sunday. During the interview, by default or by design, the Taoiseach began to spin a web that would put his Government in jeopardy and plunge the Fine Gael party into crisis. Whilst the burden of responsibility for the events of the last week must fall squarely on Mr Kenny's shoulders, in Government no man is an island. Serious questions must extend to those charged with handling issues behind the scenes at political and official level. For the most part, we only ever see our politically elected representatives as the public face of Government. However, just beneath the political surface lies a large coterie of unelected officials. Some are members of the civil service, others are political appointees. In crisis management situations, such as this one, backroom political advisers should play a significant role. Complex and complicated circumstances involving a multiplicity of differing positions from government departments and state agencies require deft management to establish a path to the truth. Clear positions and accurate responses must be worked out behind the scenes and not in front of TV cameras or live microphones. If that process of information gathering is abandoned, every subsequent communication effort is lost before it even begins. Only when actuality is clearly defined can politicians deliver facts to communicate a way forward to political peers, the press and to the public. In that regard, this administration has never grasped the whistleblower issue effectively. Like a grenade with the pin removed, the matter has repeatedly bounced around the corridors of power waiting to blow up for years now. Every single time it has surfaced, the Taoiseach and those around him have displayed an alarming capacity to escalate its status from manageable drama to full-blown political crisis. In doing so, they have made how not to manage a political crisis into a veritable art form. As the media exhausted superlatives to describe the dysfunctionality inside government, no one was attempting to control the agenda as a political collective. Instead assortments of political cabals were operating independently with their own self-preservation evidently more pressing than any notion of collective Cabinet responsibility. When politicians were eventually hounded in the public domain, they made contributions that rivalled the BBC political satirical spoof 'The Thick of It'. For example, the Taoiseach's interview last Sunday was a missed opportunity of epic proportions. Approached correctly and positively, the interview could have proved a perfect platform to reassert authority and to take control of a potentially lethal political situation before it became a complete fiasco. Instead he approached it entirely defensively. The Taoiseach appeared ill-prepared and unsure. Who (if anyone) prepared the Taoiseach for this interview? Surely if any basic preparation had been conducted, the anomalies surrounding the meeting with Children's Minister Katherine Zappone would have at least been exposed and avoided?  Sounding like he was hearing many of the answers himself for the first time, Mr Kenny stepped through the looking glass to another little world of his own. Almost simultaneously, in another parallel universe across the lawn in Montrose, his Justice Minister Frances Fitzgerald was doing the same thing on TV. Unlike Mr Kenny, she had done her homework and was prepared. With more notes in front of her than the National Concert Orchestra, she dealt with her interrogation forcefully. Ultimately, however, she too failed to convince. Notwithstanding the fact that they are both seasoned politicians who had days to prepare, both made a bad situation even worse. Ms Zappone returned to La La Land and launched herself on to a soundbite-starved press, giving an emotionally charged performance befitting of the Abbey Theatre. With the gusto of someone who had downed a vial of truth serum, she told the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. God help Enda. There are no perfect prescriptions for dealing with crisis management in Government.  However, here is what could have happened. Once the Tusla issue was live in Leinster House, the Taoiseach should have requested that Ms Zappone not travel to the States. The Taoiseach's programme manager should have immediately taken control of the situation and summoned all relevant officials, political and press advisers from the Departments of An Taoiseach, Justice, Children and Health. A full list of questions, however unpalatable, should have been drawn up for response with an agreement to consult political masters to complete and contrast answers. Once a comprehensive document of questions and answers was finalised and agreed by all parties, this text should have then formed the basis for all future communications for the media and for politicians in Dáil Éireann. Known in the business as "singing from the same hymn sheet", it is really based on the principle that information is power - it's hardly rocket science. Now all we can do is wait for the Taoiseach to outline his exit plan, which increasingly appears more like an order than an option. Let's pray for the sake of his political legacy that his backroom team manages his departure better than it mounted his defence. Mistrust, untruths and obfuscation at Cabinet level in relation to the treatment of Sergeant Maurice McCabe have for once and for all sealed the fate of one man. It has signalled the political end of Mr Kenny. Once hailed as more amiable chairman than ruthless chief, this week Mr Kenny appeared at times like a pointless spectator in the farcical charade that exposed deep levels of dysfunction at the heart of Government. Neurotic survival might be the only reasonable way to adequately describe the efforts of an embarrassing and shambolic administration completely immersed in chaos entirely of its own making. Remember, these people are also charged collectively with protecting and progressing our economic welfare, our social development, the delivery of our services, our education and health system. We, the Irish people, have  become accustomed to an extraordinary level of mediocrity in relation to what passes for political activity. Cabals within government are not unusual but they are rarely so politically self-serving. The business of governing appears completely paralysed. Holding on to power has become the unedifying spectacle overarching our political system. Fate is fickle, power is cyclical and new politics seems doomed to propel us backwards, not forward. Next! Mandy Johnston is a former Government Press Secretary Irish Independent 
