politics
{  
    May 15 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/poll-topper-lowry-seeks-re-election-27447803.html }
"It is never easy as an Independent. You are taking on the establishment, you are taking on the firepower of the main   By Cian McCormack Michael Lowry sits in the corner of a quiet public premises. He is preparing for battle. There’s only a week to go to the General Election, and the campaign is in full swing. Lowry’s face is prim, proper, blank and lifeless. He does not display his emotions, not even the pressures of the General Election. It’s a Saturday evening and Lowry has managed to swamp Nenagh with eighty-three canvassers and an old VW Beetle armed with a mega-phoned voice calling for No. 1 support for the independent TD. That’s what Lowry wants, number ones. He is depending on number ones and says he is fearful of "waiting around for preferences that may not arrive". "Transfers", he says, "I am not going to get a massive transfer of votes from the main political parties. I am asking people to give me their number one and give their number two to the candidate of their choice. I will not be presumptuous and tell them who to give their number two vote to," he says. The North Tipperary TD was never going to give up easily. The self-styled whipping boy defied the political odds after he was spat from mainstream party politics in 1996. The business man turned politician launched a successful Independent campaign in the 1997 General Election when he secured over 11,000 votes and was elected after the first count. The suave former Fine Gael politician, who fell from grace after his commercial interests with supermarket tycoon Ben Dunne were revealed, has been involved in the Buchanan inquiry; the McCracken tribunal; Minister Harney’s investigation of his Garuda company; the Revenue Commissioners as well as the Moriarty tribunal. Despite topping the poll in the last General Election, the Holycross based politician says this election bout has not been easy. "It is never easy as an Independent. You are taking on the establishment, you are taking on the firepower of the main political parties and I think it is unrealistic of me or anyone to perform as well as I did in the last General Election," explains Lowry. But Lowry’s popularity is measured by his ability to get things done and he says he is getting a good response at the doorstep. "I have done a lot for this county in the past twenty-three years. I have helped people on a local level countywide. I brought a third level institution - the Tipperary Institute - to North Tipperary, I cleared the Semple Stadium debt by organising the Féile concerts and I drained the Mulcaire River after years of false promises. I have served the people of North Tipperary well for over the past twenty-three years and I am hoping people should recognise that," says Lowry. After the next election Lowry believes his position, as a politician, will be elevated although he is not aligned to any particular political party. "When the next election is over I think that Independents are going to have a huge influ ence in the formation of the next Government. I have no doubt that my vote will be important when the new Dáil is reconvened," he says. The question remains: Who will Lowry support in the formation of a Government after the next General Election? Will he support Fine Gael, who currently appear to have no room for him in their party or Fianna Fail? "I would certainly like to be in a position to support a Fine Gael led government but that support would be contingent on negotiating a package in the best interests of the people of North Tipperary. “In the event of Fine Gael not being in a position to lead a government I would have an obligation and a responsibility to look at other options including the option of supporting an alternative government," Lowry says . In the foreseeable future Lowry will remain an Independent. It is simple. His old party don’t want him back. "Fine Gael have made statements in relation to their position. All I can say is after the next General Election, should Fine Gael be in a position to form a government, they will be damn glad of my vote," says Lowry Despite being ejected from Fine Gael, and mainstream party politics in 1996, into the limbo of independent public representation Lowry refuses to rule out any possible reinstatement to his old party in the future. "Circumstances change, times change, events lead to change. All I can say is I don't know what the future holds for me. All I know is that as of now the future for me in politics is as an Independent candidate here in North Tipperary," says Lowry. "Michael Noonan is making announcements in relation to my future. The fact is that if Michael Noonan does not become Taoiseach after the next election he will have to confront his own critics within the party and will face an uncertain future". When Lowry’s links were severed with Fine Gael in 1996 he was hurled into emotional turmoil. "It is difficult to put into words your feelings," he says. "My emotions at the time of my resignation ... well ... It was a traumatic experience for me, there was a huge sense of loss. “It was difficult to cope with the emotions privately but I also had to cope with them in public - that was very humiliating. I gradually came to terms with that. But it was effectively my whole life turned upside down. Not alone had I lost my Ministry but I was a high ranking official within the Fine Gael Party and I went overnight from the top to nowhere, I wasn't even a member of the party," he says. "It hit me badly and was a deeply traumatic experience. Although it was difficult to cope with it, inwardly in myself and in my heart I knew that there was no political wrongdoing. "I went from having a promising career within the Fine Gael Party to not even being a member of the party over night. I sat down and analysed the situation, it was a case of either staying in politics or disappearing," says Lowry. This was the crucial stage for Lowry. With his supporters behind him he embarked on his Independent political career. "From the interaction with people, in 1997, it was evident to me that people wanted me to stay in politics. I decided to stay in politics and the only avenue open to me was the Independent line. "At the time there were people who questioned my judgement in relation to that, there were people who felt that I wouldn't get elected as an independent but I got overwhelming support in the constituency because people made a distinction between my political career and my business life," he says. "Despite everything that has happened to me I am still very much determined and committed. I have a self belief and I have a contribution to make into the future in this constituency". "Since I left mainstream party politics there has been a lot said about me. There has been a lot of unfounded and unwarranted allegations made about me. I can say without fear of any contradiction that any of the political decisions that I made as a Minister were all appropriate and above suspicion of any outside influence or ulterior motives," says Lowry. "My departure from Fine Gael came about not because of any political wrongdoing but because of my commercial agreement with Ben Dunne. When I made that commercial agreement with Ben Dunne I could not have foreseen that years later my commercial and political life would overlap and cause my political downfall. I would always like to make a distinction between that," he adds. "I made some decisions at that particular time in relation to my commercial and business life that have come back to haunt me. I made them in good faith, it turned out to be a mistake and I paid a high price for that," says Lowry. "Since all this started seven years ago the accusations that have made about me through the national media have been simple. There have been allegations of corruption, bribery, and political wrong doing on my behalf. Seven years later, and many investigations and inquiries later, there is not a shred of evidence to substantiate any of those investigations and there never will be because there has not been any," he adds "I think it is fair to say that I have received unfair attention from the national media in the context of everything that has happened in this country. I have been held up to ridicule on a persistent and prolonged basis. As I say the underlying charges that have been laid against me are based on the false presumption and the false notion that there was something wrong with the manner in which the second GSM mobile license was given to ESAT," says Lowry. "Any examination of that licence will totally justify the political decisions that were made by me. There was never any political interference or never any attempt by me as Minister to influence the outcome of that decision. “I am keenly looking forward to Mr Justice Moriarty's report and particularly looking forward to the section dealing with the Tribunals examination of the award of the second mobile licence. I am utterly convinced that I behaved properly in all of my dealings in relation to the licence," Lowry says. 
