politics
{ John Drennan 
    December 06 2014 10:01 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/john-drennan/burton-and-mary-lou-go-to-war-over-sf-or-labours-way-30804969.html }
For those of us odd people who reside in Leinster House, the recent encounters between Mary Lou and Joan Burton have become our little equivalent of Thursday treat day.  Formerly, when Mr Gilmore was the Labour 'Dear Leader', questions to the leader on Thursday was the political equivalent of down-time. There was, alas only going to be one result when Superquinn Mum took on the Mrs Doubtfire of Dun Laoghaire. Now, though, the wars between Enda, Gerry and Micheal Martin are the mere warm-up act. Instead, Joan versus Mary Lou is now the political equivalent of Super Thursday, where the blood spills freely into the political water. Given the fate of all those who opposed Sinn Fein in the past, some will wonder why Joan has gone to war so willingly with these rough beasts. Like so many other power games within the Coalition, it does appear to represent a somewhat unfair carve-up of responsibilities, where Enda will take on the paper tigers of Fianna Fail while Joan tries to catch the very real Sinn Fein wolf. The unfairness is doubled by the happy circumstance, for Enda, where he must only face Gerry Adams. Enda has his own woes, but Mr Adams, too, is now a political wraith, all of whose triumphs now reside in the past as distinct from the future. Mary Lou is a different kettle of fish. She is the leading shock-trooper of the Sinn Fein Scientologist charge to secure the votes of the simpleton middle classes whose political memory resembles the goldfishes'. The reasons why Joan has decided to front up and take on Sinn Fein come from the very core of her political persona. It is said that Irish politics offers us the best living proof of the old Chinese saying that if you wait long enough by the river, the bodies of all your enemies will float past. Ireland, though, has its own unique variation of that truism, for in Leinster House, that political corpse you have seen on its back in the water, floating past, is more than capable of regenerating itself. The modern version of this Frankenstein's tale is the arrival on to the Irish stage - a decade after we thought the great age of tribunals had put a stake through the heart of the Haughey era - of Gerry Adams dressed up in what looks astonishingly like the same political suit Mr Haughey used to wear. Of course, Mr Adams does not have a big house, or a yacht, or an island or an Ansbacher account. But, the politically opportunistic 'now you see it, now you don't' economic politics, the secrecy and the cult of the leader that accompany Sinn Fein, are a mirror image of the politics of that age. In the case of the rise of Sinn Fein, in a country with a long-term memory problem, the similarities between new Sinn Fein and Haughey's Fianna Fail is what has put the steel into Joan Burton's spine. Longevity is not always a vice in politics, if it is accompanied by the capacity to learn. Ms Burton's formation during that period of ancient history where the great political beasts such as Haughey, Lawlor and Burke stalked the land has informed Ms Burton's distaste for the amoral opportunism that informs the current exquisitely planned Sinn Fein power-grab. She saw the devastation wrought upon the State and her own community by the moral cowardice and political darkness of the Haughey age, which stretched from Dublin county council to the Taoiseach's office. Ms Burton also empathised deeply with those many victims of a church whose response to the living evil of sex abuse consisted of nothing more empathetic than silence, lies and the taking of notes. She also knows enough about the ethic of soi disant 'freedom fighters' in Africa, and the similarities between those individuals and the IRA when it came to the sort of droit de seigneur they believed they had an entitlement to. The iciness between Ms Burton and Mary Lou is not about place or position, or whether Sinn Fein's Superquinn Mum is poised to knock Joan off her designated status as the people's Queen Mum. Ms Burton's concern is that SF, far from building a bright new future, will plunge us back to a dark past. And, happily for us, Joan is not prepared to stand idly by while a peaceful Provo coup d'etat is ushered in the door by the Sinn Fein Scientologists. The even better news for we political voyeurs is that, while Ms Burton believes she is on the high moral ground, when it comes to taking out Sinn Fein, Saint Joan is more than capable of elbowing an opponent in the ribs when the referee is not looking. And she is also well able to stand on the fallen foe's hand, as they writhe on the ground, while Joan waves concernedly at the referee. For the moment, despite the Thursday morning successes, Sinn Fein are still riding high However, a softening-up process has begun, where Joan is looking to work the body rather than going for the head shots too early. Sinn Fein are still soaring in the polls. But, unlike the rest of the establishment, who appear sometimes to be involved in a race to roll over before the Sinn Fein advance, Ms Burton sees weakness in the lantern-jawed ranks of those who oppose her. Her own core philosophy of Moral Methodism means she is more qualified than most to discern the heart of the Sinn Fein Scientologist problem. She believes Sinn Fein are genuinely struggling to deal with the responsibilities that come when you are no longer a cult. The displays of Dail hysteria are a symptom of the difficulty the slow political learners of Sinn Fein are experiencing when it comes to normal political discussion and accountability. Ms Burton believes there is deep confusion and unease in a party that does not possess definite ideological bearings beyond the desire for power. Of course Ms Burton has more challenges to deal with than the tantrums of a Mary Lou Her primary political intent is to ensure that: ''a country that has been seriously damaged by a decade of austerity takes the first steps towards a great new age of State-building''. But she has also ceded that the Government also needs to send out the message that in terms of tax increases, the Coalition has finally recognized that: ''The threshold of public consent has been reached.'' It might be observed that this is a statement of the obvious. But the abyss of political intelligence dogging this administration means even mere statements of the obvious have been beyond the purview of the Coalition. Ms Burton is, of course, acutely aware too, that in terms of mere party issues, she needs to engage in a sustained period of Labour party building too. There is, after all, little point in saving the State from one set of wreckers if you are only paving the road for another queue of them to come pouring through. The good news for us is that when it comes to knocking SF off their current happy perch, this means that for the rest of the term of this Government, when Joan meets Mary Lou, there is always going to be trouble. Labour might still go down, but at least they will go down fighting.   FACT FILE NAME: Joan Burton AGE: 65 POSITION: Labour leader IN THE NEWS BECAUSE: despite the ghoulish poll figures, Ms Burton has decided to take the war to Sinn Fein. The consequent clashes with Mary Lou have evolved into the most existential gunfight in Irish politics since Garret 'The Good' and Charles Haughey. Sunday Independent 
