politics
{ Mandy Johnston 
    January 14 2017 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/mandy-johnston/welcome-to-la-la-land-as-ni-politicians-risk-hard-won-peace-for-party-gains-35366917.html }
The movie 'La La Land' is expected to sweep the boards at the upcoming Oscars, and back in little old Ireland we are about to enter a blockbusting La La Land of our own. Following Martin McGuinness's decision to step down as deputy first minister, the political signals are that the Northern Ireland Assembly will be dissolved and elections will take place in Northern Ireland in March or May. Before this election even starts, it is mired in individual political party interests on all sides. And with no one quite sure what it is they are seeking to achieve, it will open a dangerous vacuum. Effectively the political establishment in Northern Ireland has chosen to embark on a perilous road trip to an unknown destination. As a nation, we are slightly prone to hyperbole and so every election in Northern Ireland tends to be touted as historic. However, an election held in the current climate could indeed prove momentous - for all the wrong reasons. In addition to the enormous social and economic instability it will heap upon the people of Northern Ireland, it will also have massive implications for Ireland's relationship with Europe and the UK. It will affect how the UK commences its extrication from the EU, and potentially it could seriously damage the Good Friday Agreement. Political party machinations have always played a significant role in the peace process - this election will be no different. There is no obvious answer to Sinn Féin's appetite for an election now, other than a sneaky suspicion that it might mask other issues for the party - like changes to its leadership structure on both sides of the Border, or other unknowns. Only time will tell. But Sinn Féin has a canny knack of styling adversity into political advantage for itself. Before the ink was dry on the McGuinness letter of resignation, Sinn Féin was reaching out to other sections of the community, ethnic minorities, women, LGBT and anti-Brexit supporters to widen a flagging support base, whilst at the same time accusing the DUP of "crude and crass bigotry". It never misses a trick. Sinn Féin is rarely, if ever, forced into political corners. That is not to suggest that the DUP is faultless when it comes to assigning blame. One only needs to listen to the interview on RTÉ's 'Morning Ireland' with Máirtín Ó Muilleoir, Sinn Féin finance minister, and DUP MP Jeffrey Donaldson, in the wake of Mr McGuinness's resignation to get a fleeting glimpse of the potential tone of the debates that lie ahead. High on rhetoric and history lessons, the exchange was littered with personal attacks. Neither party made even a veiled attempt at improving the delicate and volatile situation. An element of playing to the gallery and assuaging party political audiences has always been tolerated as part of the rough and tumble of Northern Irish politics. Truth be told, at times of acute political strain, much of what is aired publicly on the airwaves or in press conferences is already loosely choreographed behind the scenes in advance. This enables all parties to become familiar with the boundaries of what is required to bring all sides along simultaneously, and, crucially, to avoid public confrontations. The practical facilitation of such workings is only possible and effective if all parties are committed to moving forward with some clear political reward in sight. No such cooperation is evident now. There is the added danger that those running for election anywhere now will take their lead from US President-elect Donald Trump in the belief that the more disdainful of the system one is, the more electorally appealing you are as a candidate. In the coming weeks "to hell with it" candidates may well emerge from the woodwork in Northern Ireland leading passionate claims that the current format as prescribed by the Good Friday Agreement is not working. Plain-speaking politicians who appeal to voter's deepest anxieties are not a new phenomenon. However, in modern politics that reality is further compounded by social media. There, a band of keyboard warriors and cyber campaigners use venom, insults and misinformation as their tools. Their communications are often delivered with anonymity and abandon, and can prove dangerous and destructive. It is also likely to feature heavily in this campaign. In terms of communicating its message, Sinn Féin has proved a master of the dark arts. More than any other politician in Northern Ireland, Mr McGuinness truly understands the value of political communication. While many politicians profess to understand its usefulness, few can execute messaging and manipulate the media to their advantage in the way that Mr McGuinness can. In that respect for Sinn Féin, he is both master and commander. While there are undeniable flaws in the totality of his own personal history, the honesty that he brings to the negotiating table has made people on all sides trust him more. In negotiations, the man is steely and determined, but always sane, sensible and effortlessly articulate. He has also shown an undeniable self-effacing humility which has proved a vital component in moving the workings of a power-sharing arrangement from a set of words on paper to a practical reality. Possessed of a consistent ideology and an amiable personality, he has had the mind-set and stamina to challenge any government official or political peer. If he is to play no role in this election, Sinn Féin is heavily on the back foot before it even starts. When it comes to accepting the importance of communication, DUP leader Arlene Foster sits on the other end of the spectrum. She has not yet grasped the value or the potential dangers of communication in relation to maintaining political stability in Northern Ireland, particularly in relation to cross-community sensibilities. A larger and more elusive weakness is that she exudes entrenchment. She seems to lack a shred of feeling for those who have embraced compromise and played by the rules as set out in the Good Friday Agreement. There have been numerous occasions in recent months when Mrs Foster has played directly and exclusively to her own audience without any consideration for other political viewpoints. Introducing the possibility of disregarding the mandatory element of coalition power-sharing is provocative but it is commensurate with views she expressed back when she was a member of the UUP. Maintaining respect for all political party considerations and a common adherence to the basic principles of mutual respect and cooperation have effectively maintained this peace to date. A constantly shifting political arrangement, the Assembly is imperfect and fragile. Politically speaking, it has been taken for granted by many. Now attention must be paid by all political parties North and South, and by the governments in Ireland and the UK. No matter which side of the Border you live on, when looking at the political or economic standing of this country in international terms, without a shadow of a doubt "peace" is the most precious commodity we have right now. While the future may not look worse than the past for Northern Ireland, we are certainly entering unpredictable territory. In politics, there is only one certainty - things can always get worse. Irish Independent 
