politics
{  
    May 22 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/understanding-political-parties-26049100.html }
Sir  In the aftermath of the General Election, it is impossible to listen to any political analysis without hearing  about the new political landscape in terms of political ideologies and concepts. Sir In the aftermath of the General Election, it is impossible to listen to any political analysis without hearing about the new political landscape in terms of political ideologies and concepts. For the first time in Ireland, political parties are beginning to be analysed in ideological terms, according to socio-economic indicators. The left-right political spectrum, which related to the seating arrangements at the Estate General during the French revolution in 1789 with the radicals seated on the left and the reactionaries on the right, is an outdated, inaccurate, measurement of modern political alignment. The system was even outdated in the 1980s when terms like the "new right" were used to describe the political creeds of Thatcher and Reagan in the UK and US respectively a new right that drew from classical liberalism originating in the late 19th century, preaching free market economies and absolute freedom and primacy of the self in an economic sense. This new right seems more like old left or libertarian thinking. It is an example of an ideology borrowing heavily from principles seemingly contrary to its own founding political principles. Political movements like ecology and feminism have absolutely no place in this form of left-right political spectrum. Most political commentators have mistakenly attempted to place the Green Party on the left of this outdated spectrum. But it is obvious that the Green Party represents a new unique political phenomena. Parties like Sinn Fein and the Socialist Party appear to represent left principles as associated with their placing on the political spectrum. Their socio-economic policies, while obviously with modern aspects, do appear to merit their placing on the left of the political scale. Parties like Labour have, however, adopted such diluted and diverse policies that their location within this spectrum is highly debatable. We no longer describe the universe in pre-Einstein relativity terminology. New standards and associations have been invented to describe the modern telecommunications world regarding the Internet, mobile phones and computers. We no longer describe automobiles and their features with 1900s lingo. If we did, we would have a difficult time describing catalytic converters and electric windows in terms originally used to describe Henry Ford's Model Ts. It's about time we stopped trying to force parties into some form of outdated category to describe them politically and attempted to create a new scale to measure or understand a political party's founding principles and policies. Cathal Horan, Stillorgan Rd, Co Dublin 
