politics
{  
    February 14 2010 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/public-contempt-for-politics-risks-our-democracy-26632134.html }
A bad week not just for Fine Gael but for Irish politics, proclaimed pundits and politicians alike in response to George Lee's sudden flight from the rough-and-tumble of the Dail back to the cosseted comfort of RTE. Both assertions, for reasons to which I shall return, are arguably wrong. But his resignation did expose a depth of popular contempt for Irish political structures that, if left unchecked, could ultimately pose a threat to Irish democracy. Unsurprisingly, contempt and disillusion were most apparent in the nation's best-loved emotional vomitorium: Joe Duffy's Liveline programme, when 83 per cent of the 16,000 respondents to an instant telephone poll backed Lee. That bald statistic, however, is less significant than the anti-democratic and authoritarian language of some of his supporters. The most alarming contributions came from two women, both, coincidentally, identified only as Bernadette. Bernadette One began by asking Duffy to "stop trying to crucify this man. He's an honest man. He's principled, he's full of integrity, he's the best economist Ireland has" -- a claim so extravagantly ludicrous that one suspects even the self-regarding and listening Lee may have blushed with embarrassment. But there was worse, much worse, to come. "This man loves his country. He doesn't love a little party. He loves his country. Fine Gael had a jewel in their crown and they've let him go. We need this man. There's nearly half a million people unemployed. There's nothing or nobody for the young people to look up to, but now, today, they have someone to look up to. They have a young, fresh, honest person. And that's what we need. "I'm disgusted with Fine Gael ... we don't know half their policies because they're not really an opposition party. If they were, they'd have every Irish person out on the streets right now asking to have a new government." This chilling equation of political opposition with street politics was followed by a concluding plea to arise and follow Georgie. "Hold steadfast, George. Maybe you can set up your own party and you can gather people like yourself with principles and integrity and a love for Ireland. This country comes first before any political party." Such pseudo-patriotism also featured in the contribution of Bernadette Two: "I absolutely support George Lee. He's a man of vision, which is what we really need. He's a man of leadership. He's a man on a mission ... The Irish people need somebody like George Lee. We have no leadership in this country ... We're looking at a system that's broken down and we need somebody there that has the guiding light." Sound familiar? Economic recession, mass unemployment, crucifixion, someone to look up to, love of country, mobs on the streets demanding a new government, country before party, man of vision, country first, man of leadership, man on a mission, system broken down, guiding light. Here are echoes of the 'All Hail the Leader' sentiments that paved the path to power of Hitler in Germany, Mussolini in Italy and, closer to home, that prompted Fine Gael to choose Eoin O'Duffy as its first leader in 1933. There are, thankfully, no reasons to suppose that Lee has any authoritarian aspirations to national leadership. Nor indeed would it be fair to suggest that those who so emotionally support him on radio would like to see such an outcome. On the contrary, Lee has said again and again that he did not want to be on the frontbench, that he did not seek influence. All he wanted, he said repeatedly in best economist speak, was "to have an input" -- or, as he said on another occasion, "I don't want power. I just want to save the economy." The distinction is, again, characteristic of an economist's mentality and reveals an extraordinary naivety about both politics and history. He failed to understand that, as the great British political columnist Alan Watkins said, "politics is a rough old trade"; nor did he understand that politics is more a matter of running a marathon than a 60-yard dash. The best Irish historical analogy is with Noel Browne, whose petulant behaviour over the Mother and Child scheme brought down the first Fine Gael-led government and who was a divisive influence in the political parties of which he was a member: Clann na Poblachta (1947-51); Fianna Fail (1953-57); the National Progressive Democrats (1958-63); Labour (1963-77); and the Socialist Labour Party. The analogy breaks down inasmuch as Lee, unlike Browne, chose to resign rather than to serve as an independent TD. He clearly lacks Browne's remarkable political stamina and, for the moment at least, seems to have lost all appetite for electoral politics. But where it may yet prove apposite is in regard to John Horgan's assessment in the Dictionary of Irish Biography of Browne's continuing "to act as a political magnet" for all those who saw him as the apostle of urgently needed change. Also apposite is that Lee, like Browne, is a force for political destabilisation -- which is why, in the long run, the departure of Lee and his I'm a Celebrity, Get Me Out of Here approach to politics may well prove more of a godsend than a loss for Fine Gael. Much, much better that he go now than after he became a cabinet minister -- as he would undoubtedly have done when, as still seems the likeliest outcome, Fine Gael forms part of the next government. So, too, with the repercussions for Enda Kenny's leadership, which had already become an issue after his disastrous performance on the Late Late Show and Fine Gael's slippage in the latest opinion polls compounded by his own persistently poor leadership ratings. Here, indeed, one must endorse George Lee's own assessment that last week's debacle served only as a catalyst. The stark reality for Fine Gael is that if it is going to change its leader before the next election, the sooner it does so the better, but that is a matter for another column. The irony is that, notwithstanding the sensationalist furore surrounding the Lee debacle, this has been a good week for Irish politics, or at least -- and this is much more important -- a good week for Irish democracy. Why? Because the EU's response to the Greek crisis -- the greatest crisis to date in the history of the eurozone -- shows that Ireland's stringent recovery plan is sufficiently credible to have won the respect of our partners. Although the closure of the Bank of Scotland (Ireland)'s branch network and of Halifax suggests that we are far from out of the woods, we are no longer linked with Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy -- the ignominiously christened Pigs -- as among the sickest economies of the eurozone. In the midst of the current storm of criticism of our system of parliamentary party democracy, it is therefore worth hoping that the much maligned Irish body politic may have begun to surmount its greatest economic crisis since independence. We might also do well to call to mind what Winston Churchill said from the opposition benches in the House of Commons in 1947. "Democracy is the worst form of government except all those other forms that have been tried from time to time." Ronan Fanning is Professor Emeritus of Modern History and Director of Archives Acquisitions at UCD Sunday Independent 
