politics
{ Diarmaid MacDermott 
    March 18 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/guerrillas-use-talents-on-northern-voters-26285950.html }
THE great Prussian military theorist Carl von Clausewitx once wrote, "War is a continuation of politics by other means." For the new political soldiers of Sinn Fein the concept has been turned on its head, and they are now practising their own definition: "Politics is a continuation of war by other means." The outcome was seen in the recent dramatic results to the Northern Ireland Assembly, where Sinn Fein won 28 seats and became the second-largest political party in the North through a ruthless application of military-style tactics to electoral politics. When the IRA announced the end to its military campaign last year, many assumed that Sinn Fein was about to become simply another political party with a slightly dodgy past but fully committed to normal electoral politics. But the election results have shown that Sinn Fein is no ordinary party, but one that is now using tactics learned by its former military wing, the IRA, during its 30-year "war" with Britain. While many IRA "volunteers" retired with the ending of the campaign, many others turned to becoming full-time Sinn Fein activists or "community workers", bringing with them their experience as guerrillas to Sinn Fein's electoral intervention. The Independent Monitoring Commission reported last week that the IRA "does not engage in acts of violence and has instructed its members not to do so. The leadership continues to encourage members to undertake political or community activities". The results in West Belfast dramatically illustrate how Sinn Fein and its new breed of "militarised politicos" operate. The constituency was literally carved up by Sinn Fein to ensure that all five of the party's representatives won a seat. With Gerry Adams getting just over the quota and the remaining four SF candidates each within a couple of hundred votes of each other's vote and of the electoral quota, Sinn Fein showed that they have mastered proportional representation, quotas and vote transfers. They also ensured that no transfers went outside their own "tribe", with not one of Gerry Adams's votes transferring to the DUP candidate. The seeds of Sinn Fein's approach to electoral politics were sown in that hotbed of political ferment that was Long Kesh in the 1970s. Many of the IRA's and Sinn Fein's current leadership came into contact for the first time then with the political ideas of the left, and the works of Che Guevara, Lenin, Marx, Mao and Trotsky were eagerly lapped up and applied to Sinn Fein's traditional analysis. Brian Keenan, who was one of the IRA's key thinkers in the 1980s, was also a committed revolutionary Marxist who developed the IRA's strategy of combining a terrorist campaign with a political campaign. The new Sinn Fein that emerged after the first IRA ceasefire and that is now challenging the traditional political systems, North and South, is a far cry from the traditional support group for physical force republicanism. The party operates a form of "democratic centralism" borrowed from the Leninist model adopted by most Communist Parties. This means that the leadership decides on policy; there is internal discussion of the policy, but it is rigorously implemented at all levels within the organisation and no dissent is allowed. Witness the recent Ard Fheis where several motions condemning the leadership's decision to support the PSNI were not even discussed - never mind voted on. Sinn Fein activists, from GerryAdams down to the local party man on the street, operate with one voice. Electoral politics does not mean the same for Sinn Fein as it does for other political parties. The classic liberal democracy sees democratic parties competing for their share of the vote, with the end result being the formation of a government based on who wins the majority of the vote. For Sinn Fein, electoral politics is another battlefield where they can pursue their ultimate goal of a united Ireland by whatever means necessary. Having exhausted their military campaign, republicans are now concentrating their forces on winning in the electoral field. What are the repercussions for politics as traditionally practised in the Republic? The established political parties are in for a rude awakening when the Sinn Fein machine comes to town. Firstly Sinn Fein will and already has picked its target constituencies where it feels it has a real chance of winning seats. Party activists have already carried out registration drives, ensuring that first-time voters and those who traditionally don't bother to vote are registered for election 2007. Once the general election campaign begins in earnest, the full weight of the Sinn Fein machine will move into gear. Activists from all over the country - and especially from the North - will descend on the chosen constituencies to ensure maximum delivery of votes. Housing estates will be canvassed with a military-like discipline, and local activists will ensure that any spare votes are snapped up. Sinn Fein have become masters at using local and national media to get their "brand" across, and full use will be made of Gerry Adams - who consistently polls well in opinion polls. It remains to be seen whether Sinn Fein will make the dramatic breakthrough it so desperately wants in the forthcoming election, but even if it does not, the party's brand of militarised politics should provoke thought among the traditional political parties. Diarmaid MacDermott is managing director of Ireland International News Agency 
