politics
{ David Quinn 
    November 18 2016 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/david-quinn/trumps-win-was-a-crushing-blow-to-political-correctness-35225459.html }
What happens to political correctness when its ability to bully everyone into silence comes to an end? The Donald Trump victory signals that it is coming to an end. Strange as it may seem for someone like me to say, if it came to a complete end, that would be a bad thing because the basic instinct of political correctness is good; protect minorities.  The problem with political correctness is that it has completely overreached. By shouting 'bigot' too often, by completely failing to distinguish between reasonable and unreasonable critics, it is getting closer to wearing out the power of the word 'bigot'. It's not there yet by any means, but give it a few more years.  In addition, in its eagerness to protect minorities it has covered up some terrible abuses perpetrated by those same minorities, including sexual abuse (just like the Church did), and voter fraud.  Mr Trump basically set out to defy almost all the conventions of political correctness. He turned its censoriousness to his own advantage. He seemed to know that the more politically incorrect he was, the more publicity he would attract. He also seemed to sense that because political correctness can't distinguish between reasonable and unreasonable criticism, and shouts 'bigot' at absolutely everyone, he might as well be hanged for a sheep as for a lamb. That's what happens when you impose the 'death penalty' for all offences. You tempt some people to commit a big offence. Lots of people who wouldn't agree with some of Mr Trump's more outrageous statements - for example, ban all Muslims (later nuanced to 'vet Muslims') - still voted for him because they were sick and tired of being shouted down all the time. Mr Trump might be a barbarian, a club-wielding caveman, but maybe it took someone like him, instead of the more polite critics of political correctness, to deliver a mighty blow to it. The danger here in Ireland is that the shrill and unthinking defenders of political correctness will in time give rise to a similar, home-grown version of Mr Trump because nothing else seems to get through to them.  They are impervious to reason, assume the bad faith of everyone they disagree with and go from zero to total denunciation in the time it takes you to blink. I wish there was a term better than 'political correctness' to describe 'political correctness'. I could say 'cultural Marxism' but almost no one would know what that means. As mentioned, political correctness is concerned with protecting the rights and status of minority groups. The reason it is so concerned with language, is that the wrong kind of language can demean a group. That is why 'Tinker' changed to 'Itinerant' and then to 'Traveller', for example. We won't even mention the 'K' word. Nor will we mention the 'N' word, for very obvious reasons, but even good-willed people aren't sure whether to say 'black' or 'African-American'. There is no organisation called 'African-American Lives Matter'. It's 'Black Lives Matter'. So, can it really be racist to say 'black'? We should sometimes have to think twice about some of the language we use to describe this or that group. The trouble is that political correctness has us thinking three, four, 10 times about the language we use and has reached the absurdity of seeking to make us fear whether it is safe to call a man a man or a woman a woman in case the person prefers some gender-neutral term. And if you don't use the right term, you are, of course, a 'bigot'.  A few months ago, Health Minister Simon Harris wrote a ridiculous defence of political correctness and warned us to be 'afraid' of anyone who warns that it has gone too far. At the time, I gave some examples in this newspaper of it doing precisely that, for example, 'safe spaces' and 'no platforming' at universities, so-called 'anti-hate' laws, the shutting down generally of one debate about another through scaring people rigid in case they say the 'wrong' thing. I ought to have given some even worse examples, for instance, what happened in British towns like Rotherham, Rochdale and Oxford. In those places, Pakistani men were guilty of sexually assaulting and raping hundreds of girls, often underage, over a series of years but the whole thing was covered up by the local authorities, including politicians, in case the revelation incited racism. Similarly, when 'men of North African appearance' sexually assaulted women in the centre of Cologne and elsewhere on New Year's Eve last, the German police initially covered it up. It came out on social media and the dreaded Breitbart website. In Tower Hamlets in London, meanwhile, voter fraud was covered up because, again, those responsible were from a racial minority. You won't have heard of Nissar Hussain, who has been subjected to brutal assault and had to be moved to a safe house by the British police within the last week. Why was he so moved? Because he is a Muslim convert to Christianity. Why haven't we heard of him? Because his assailants are Muslims. When political correctness is crushing free speech, and covering up sex assault, physical assault and voter fraud, that should absolutely scream that it has gone too far, that its anxiety to protect minorities has spun completely and dangerously out of control. The topic, 'has political correctness gone too far?' has never been properly debated in the Irish media because, presumably, such a discussion would itself be politically incorrect. The more we stifle debate, however, the more people are condemned for saying reasonable things that defy the PC orthodoxies, the more we see terrible human rights abuses covered up in the name of those orthodoxies the more likely it is that we will have more Donald Trumps. For the sake of civility, we need a mild form of political correctness, but the totally virulent form of it currently on the loose threatens to destroy it completely.  Irish Independent 
