politics
{  
    September 09 2010 02:28 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/news/i-didnt-want-to-fade-out-and-i-dont-like-the-idea-of-coasting-along-tributes-paid-to-inspirational-woman-27637278.html }
A WEEK is a long time in politics and Deputy Liz McManus is a perfect example. Last Friday she announced she would not be contesting the next General Election while this Friday she will be watching her eldest son get married. Her decision to quit national politics shocked many around the county as she had successfully contested every general election since 1992 and looked a shoo-in for the next election. 'I had been thinking about it [quitting] for quite a while', said McManus (63) 'and I spoke to Eamon Gilmore at the start of the summer and he made some points which I thought about but by the end of the summer I had made a very clear decision. 'I think it is good for the party and good for Wicklow to have new young candidates. We are very fortunate that a number of people have put their name out there and I expect Labour to do very well. 'Eamon Gilmore is an inspired leader and there is a need to offer an alternative Government. People are turning away from Fianna Fail in their droves and they are looking to Labour for leadership. 'I believe it is the younger people that are carrying the burden of this Government's mistakes and their children are going to keep carrying their burden. It's like a monkey on their back. It is vital therefore that they have representation in Dail Eireann. Fianna Fail has caused all this and they should definitely be out of office. I hope to see a Labour-led Government and we need a mix of people. A mix of experience, wisdom, youth, male and female.' If Labour does get into Government Liz looked odds on favourite for a ministerial post but she said you can't be sure of anything in politics. 'No one can ever say they can expect a ministerial post. I never expected to be a junior minister and I hope I did a good job. This is a game of chance and very good people in the past have been overlooked for all sorts of strategic reasons so it is not a given in this business.' With a number of names already in the mix to look for the nod from party HQ Liz said it will be up to the members to decide who goes forward. 'It is not up to any individual to decide who will represent us. I am delighted that so many people have put their name forward.' Currently Labour only has one seat in Wicklow and Liz is hopeful of securing two in the next General Election. However she feels the absence of her name on the ticket won't scupper Labour's chances of getting a duo elected. 'I think it [my absence] opens it up. There is always a danger on the incumbent to mop up votes and then it is hard for a second person to get in. When times are looking good opportunities need to be seized and if we plan strategically... 'In Wicklow there has always been a geographically element and I think there is a chance of getting two seats. It will be hard but I believe we can get two seats.' However despite Liz's retirement from national politics the election ticket may still bear the McManus name as son Ronan, a Bray town councillor, has signalled his interest in contesting the next election. 'Ronan has made his own decision. Frankly I didn't encourage it and I pointed out the pitfalls. However I am extremely proud and he was very successful in the local elections.' Liz's decision not to seek re-election comes hot on the heels of a similar decision by Laois Offaly TD, Olwyn Enright. Enright is stepping down to concentrate on her family as she is now pregnant with her second child. Their respective decisions not to seek re-election have focused the nation's minds on female quotas in Dail Eireann and McManus has been an advocate for such quotas for a long time. She said Labour is streets ahead of their Fianna Fail and Fine Gael counterparts in this respect. 'It is a defective parliament that has so few women on it and one of the reasons that Olwyn's decision and mine have created interest is because we are women. However the Labour Party can stand over their record. When I was elected to the Dail in 1992 the outgoing government had no women but Labour now has one third representation. Other parties have got to do the business. Fianna Fail and Fine Gael need to get one third representation.' In last year's European elections Labour's commitment to female representation was also seen with Liz taking on the role of director of elections for the ultimately successful Nessa Childers. 'Female quotas are a national issue and it has to be done by legislation. It is a battle and it is a challenge but the Labour Party is extremely committed. Women have and will continue to have a very important role and I would encourage young women to think about the local elections.' Having being elected to the Dail in 1992 to as a Democratic Left Liz has seen much change over her tenure. 'One of my biggest highlights was getting elected. People thought Shane Ross was going to be the TD for Wicklow and I think I was a little surprise for people. I was very grateful to get elected and I had great support from people. 'Another highlight for me was getting a Junior Ministry as it was unexpected. I was a junior minister for Housing and Urban Renewal and I was able to bring new housing schemes to Wicklow and I also launched the homeless initiative. 'Being deputy leader was also a very exciting time. It was a difficult time for Labour as Fianna Fail were riding high and a lot of lies were being told. People felt something ominous was going to happy but nobody expected things to be so severe and people's eyes have been opened now.' Although not seeking re-election Liz won't be coasting along until the election and remains committed to her constituents. 'My plan for the moment is to work as hard as ever until the next election and also to work hard to get two Labour TD's elected in Wicklow. There is a shift in public perception and people want rid of Fianna Fail. A lot of former Fianna Fail votes have turned to Labour and that's why I am so positive. I intend to stay an active member of the Labour Party and I still have a contribution to make. 'Other than that I haven't set myself any particular project targets. I didn't want to fade out and I don't like the idea of coasting along. If I had waited until I was 70 I don't think I would be working at full throttle.' Spending time with her grandchildren is also high on her agenda. GLOWING TRIBUTES have been lavished on Deputy Liz McManus since her announcement that she will not be contesting the next general election. Fine Gael deputies Andrew Doyle and Billy Timmins commended her strong work ethic and wished her well. Deputy Doyle said as ' one of the first women TDs in Wicklow she was instrumental in breaking the mould where women and politics are concerned. I know that women's involvement in politics is something she holds very dear and I have no doubt that even though she will not be seeking re-election to the Dáil that she will continue to advocate for women's involvement in the political arena. 'No-one could dispute Liz's work ethic and dedication to her profession as she always made herself available to people at all corners of the constituency. Deputy Timmins said 'she will be a loss to politics particularly in county Wicklow. She was a tireless worker for people right across the constituency and her work rate never flagged. She had a deep intellect and will be sadly missed. Liz was never afraid to make the hard decisions and I wish her well now and into the future.' Chairman of Wicklow County Council and party colleague Tom Fortune said he was surprised to hear Deputy McManus would not be seeking reelection. 'Liz has been a great ambassador for the Labour Party and for Wicklow. She has worked very hard for the County she brought vast knowledge and experience to the various roles she was involved in, especially as spokesperson on health and as junior minister for housing.' Cllr. Nicky Kelly said 'Liz will be a major loss to the constituency. She represented the people of Wicklow with distinction over many years both locally and national ly. Liz's natural ability to articulate the needs of the public at large was a great gift and the county will suffer a major loss as a result of her departure. She will be a hard act to follow.' Wicklow MEP Nessa Childers said Deputy McManus has been an inspirational figure in Irish politics. 'Liz McManus has been an inspiration to me and to countless women in the Labour Party and in public life in general. She is an accomplished, compassionate and visionary politician who has served both Wicklow and the State with enormous distinction since she was first elected to public office in 1979. 'Liz is a special person to me and I owe a sincere debt of gratitude to her trademark skill, resourcefulness and organisational ability, all of which she deployed to great effect in her role as my Director of Elections in last year's elections to the European Parliament. Sinn Fein's John Brady also wished Deputy McManus well and said he hoped to see more female candidates contesting the next general election while Fianna Fail's David Grant, Chairman of Bray Town Council, praised her commitment to the people of Wicklow. 'Deputy McManus has made a huge contribution to Bray and to Co. Wicklow during her 31 years of public service. Over these years Deputy McManus involved herself in a range of local issues and causes and championed many of them at national level. There are many groups throughout the constituency that have benefited from the support they received from Deputy McManus. 'Deputy McManus has always shown herself to be passionate, positive and pragmatic in all her activities as a public representative. There is no doubt that her contributions will be missed from local and national politics.' A WEEK is a long time in politics and Deputy Liz McManus is a perfect example. Last Friday she announced she would not be contesting the next General Election while this Friday she will be watching her eldest son get married. Her decision to quit national politics shocked many around the county as she had successfully contested every general election since 1992 and looked a shoo-in for the next election. 'I had been thinking about it [quitting] for quite a while', said McManus (63) 'and I spoke to Eamon Gilmore at the start of the summer and he made some points which I thought about but by the end of the summer I had made a very clear decision. 'I think it is good for the party and good for Wicklow to have new young candidates. We are very fortunate that a number of people have put their name out there and I expect Labour to do very well. 'Eamon Gilmore is an inspired leader and there is a need to offer an alternative Government. People are turning away from Fianna Fail in their droves and they are looking to Labour for leadership. 'I believe it is the younger people that are carrying the burden of this Government's mistakes and their children are going to keep carrying their burden. It's like a monkey on their back. It is vital therefore that they have representation in Dail Eireann. Fianna Fail has caused all this and they should definitely be out of office. I hope to see a Labour-led Government and we need a mix of people. A mix of experience, wisdom, youth, male and female.' If Labour does get into Government Liz looked odds on favourite for a ministerial post but she said you can't be sure of anything in politics. 'No one can ever say they can expect a ministerial post. I never expected to be a junior minister and I hope I did a good job. This is a game of chance and very good people in the past have been overlooked for all sorts of strategic reasons so it is not a given in this business.' With a number of names already in the mix to look for the nod from party HQ Liz said it will be up to the members to decide who goes forward. 'It is not up to any individual to decide who will represent us. I am delighted that so many people have put their name forward.' Currently Labour only has one seat in Wicklow and Liz is hopeful of securing two in the next General Election. However she feels the absence of her name on the ticket won't scupper Labour's chances of getting a duo elected. 'I think it [my absence] opens it up. There is always a danger on the incumbent to mop up votes and then it is hard for a second person to get in. When times are looking good opportunities need to be seized and if we plan strategically... 'In Wicklow there has always been a geographically element and I think there is a chance of getting two seats. It will be hard but I believe we can get two seats.' However despite Liz's retirement from national politics the election ticket may still bear the McManus name as son Ronan, a Bray town councillor, has signalled his interest in contesting the next election. 'Ronan has made his own decision. Frankly I didn't encourage it and I pointed out the pitfalls. However I am extremely proud and he was very successful in the local elections.' Liz's decision not to seek re-election comes hot on the heels of a similar decision by Laois Offaly TD, Olwyn Enright. Enright is stepping down to concentrate on her family as she is now pregnant with her second child. Their respective decisions not to seek re-election have focused the nation's minds on female quotas in Dail Eireann and McManus has been an advocate for such quotas for a long time. She said Labour is streets ahead of their Fianna Fail and Fine Gael counterparts in this respect. 'It is a defective parliament that has so few women on it and one of the reasons that Olwyn's decision and mine have created interest is because we are women. However the Labour Party can stand over their record. When I was elected to the Dail in 1992 the outgoing government had no women but Labour now has one third representation. Other parties have got to do the business. Fianna Fail and Fine Gael need to get one third representation.' In last year's European elections Labour's commitment to female representation was also seen with Liz taking on the role of director of elections for the ultimately successful Nessa Childers. 'Female quotas are a national issue and it has to be done by legislation. It is a battle and it is a challenge but the Labour Party is extremely committed. Women have and will continue to have a very important role and I would encourage young women to think about the local elections.' Having being elected to the Dail in 1992 to as a Democratic Left Liz has seen much change over her tenure. 'One of my biggest highlights was getting elected. People thought Shane Ross was going to be the TD for Wicklow and I think I was a little surprise for people. I was very grateful to get elected and I had great support from people. 'Another highlight for me was getting a Junior Ministry as it was unexpected. I was a junior minister for Housing and Urban Renewal and I was able to bring new housing schemes to Wicklow and I also launched the homeless initiative. 'Being deputy leader was also a very exciting time. It was a difficult time for Labour as Fianna Fail were riding high and a lot of lies were being told. People felt something ominous was going to happy but nobody expected things to be so severe and people's eyes have been opened now.' Although not seeking re-election Liz won't be coasting along until the election and remains committed to her constituents. 'My plan for the moment is to work as hard as ever until the next election and also to work hard to get two Labour TD's elected in Wicklow. There is a shift in public perception and people want rid of Fianna Fail. A lot of former Fianna Fail votes have turned to Labour and that's why I am so positive. I intend to stay an active member of the Labour Party and I still have a contribution to make. 'Other than that I haven't set myself any particular project targets. I didn't want to fade out and I don't like the idea of coasting along. If I had waited until I was 70 I don't think I would be working at full throttle.' Spending time with her grandchildren is also high on her agenda. GLOWING TRIBUTES have been lavished on Deputy Liz McManus since her announcement that she will not be contesting the next general election. Fine Gael deputies Andrew Doyle and Billy Timmins commended her strong work ethic and wished her well. Deputy Doyle said as ' one of the first women TDs in Wicklow she was instrumental in breaking the mould where women and politics are concerned. I know that women's involvement in politics is something she holds very dear and I have no doubt that even though she will not be seeking re-election to the Dáil that she will continue to advocate for women's involvement in the political arena. 'No-one could dispute Liz's work ethic and dedication to her profession as she always made herself available to people at all corners of the constituency. Deputy Timmins said 'she will be a loss to politics particularly in county Wicklow. She was a tireless worker for people right across the constituency and her work rate never flagged. She had a deep intellect and will be sadly missed. Liz was never afraid to make the hard decisions and I wish her well now and into the future.' Chairman of Wicklow County Council and party colleague Tom Fortune said he was surprised to hear Deputy McManus would not be seeking reelection. 'Liz has been a great ambassador for the Labour Party and for Wicklow. She has worked very hard for the County she brought vast knowledge and experience to the various roles she was involved in, especially as spokesperson on health and as junior minister for housing.' Cllr. Nicky Kelly said 'Liz will be a major loss to the constituency. She represented the people of Wicklow with distinction over many years both locally and national ly. Liz's natural ability to articulate the needs of the public at large was a great gift and the county will suffer a major loss as a result of her departure. She will be a hard act to follow.' Wicklow MEP Nessa Childers said Deputy McManus has been an inspirational figure in Irish politics. 'Liz McManus has been an inspiration to me and to countless women in the Labour Party and in public life in general. She is an accomplished, compassionate and visionary politician who has served both Wicklow and the State with enormous distinction since she was first elected to public office in 1979. 'Liz is a special person to me and I owe a sincere debt of gratitude to her trademark skill, resourcefulness and organisational ability, all of which she deployed to great effect in her role as my Director of Elections in last year's elections to the European Parliament. Sinn Fein's John Brady also wished Deputy McManus well and said he hoped to see more female candidates contesting the next general election while Fianna Fail's David Grant, Chairman of Bray Town Council, praised her commitment to the people of Wicklow. 'Deputy McManus has made a huge contribution to Bray and to Co. Wicklow during her 31 years of public service. Over these years Deputy McManus involved herself in a range of local issues and causes and championed many of them at national level. There are many groups throughout the constituency that have benefited from the support they received from Deputy McManus. 'Deputy McManus has always shown herself to be passionate, positive and pragmatic in all her activities as a public representative. There is no doubt that her contributions will be missed from local and national politics.' 
