politics
{  
    May 15 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/from-the-blackboard-to-politics-27447816.html }
"My interest in politics was revived in a new way when I returned to Nenagh. I believed the council needed the input of younger people. A rural town such as Nenagh, is the same with regards decision making and policies, it needed younger blood"   By Cian McCormack When Máire Hoctor was given the ticket to run for the General Election it marked a watershed in Fianna Fáil politics in North Tipperary. Long-standing former Minister Michael O’Kennedy was retiring from politics and someone was needed to take his place. Schoolteacher Máire was deemed to be that person, and she traded the blackboard for a chance to represent the people of her constituency in Dáil Éireann. Sitting in her well-organised office at Kickham Street in Nenagh, Fianna Fáil’s female election hopeful is preparing for an interview. She is well groomed and knowledgeable - a far cry from your average gombeen-man politician. A busy hum of traffic passes from the street outside. Máire, originally a secondary school teacher, leans forward at her desk. She is at home in her new surroundings - the world of Irish politics. She started where many other political greats began their careers - at the parish-pump. Her first step into politics came in 1994 when she was elected as an Urban District Councillor in Nenagh. Back then things were different, Máire was not wholly focused on politics because she was teaching at Nenagh CBS. But now, far away from the chalky blackboard, Máire explains why she left her vocation as a religion teacher to follow her dream of representing the people of North Tipperary in Dáil Éireann. As a child all Máire wanted to do was teach. "I knew from a young age that teaching was what I wanted to do," Máire says as she begins to explain her career path to politics. "Primary teaching was my first option, after I finished at St Mary’s Convent in Nenagh, but that didn’t work out for me. "So I was quite happy when a position in Maynooth College came up in the Theology and Arts Course. I took that up and never regretted it," she says. Following her Arts Degree at Maynooth, Máire studied her Higher Diploma in Education. She then taught in Waterford until she returned to her native town to teach at Nenagh CBS at Summerhill. Unlike many other politicians Máire did not get her first taste of politics when she entered academia at Maynooth. In fact, she never graced a political society or party with her presence when she was undertaking her third level education. Her first taste of politics came at an earlier age. She sampled North Tipperary’s grass-roots politics as a child when she went to Fianna Fáil Cumann meetings with her father, Mick. "My father was a member of the local Nenagh MacDonagh Cumann. I would have accompanied him to the meetings as a young teenager at the time, in the mid and late 1970s," says Máire. "During my time in Maynooth College I was not politically active. I don’t know if there even was a particular Cumann in the college at the time. My political involvement with the local Cumann would not have really recommenced until I returned to teach at Nenagh CBS," Máire explains. "My interest in politics was revived in a new way when I returned to Nenagh. I believed the council needed the input of younger people. A rural town such as Nenagh, is the same with regards decision making and policies, it needed younger blood "The local Cumann asked me in 1994 would I stand and represent the party in the local elections. I resisted the idea at first but they wouldn’t take no as an answer. "I though it would be good to give something back to the town. Rather than people being critical and making judgements about what should be done, I felt, I should do it rather than be a hurler on the ditch," says Máire. "I made my decision to run, I was quite happy about the decision, and I still am. I stood for the local elections in 1994 for the Urban Council only," says Máire. But at this stage Máire says she had no ambition to run for a general election although everyone knew Michael O’Kennedy would retire in the near future. "That [running as a General Election Candidate] was something way off in the horizon. It was something that I wasn’t particularly interested in at the time. It was the local commitment that preoccupied me at the time," says Máire. But then Máire’s political ambitions began to grow. In 1999 she stood for election for both the County and Urban Council and she topped the poll in both. At this time Máire was balancing her job as a teacher and her role as a local politician. As her profile grew, her workload did simultaneously. The convention for Fianna Fáil’s Dáil election candidates, which took place in September 2000, was a watershed in the party’s North Tipperary history. People realised Michael O’Kennedy was retiring and somebody, preferably based in the Nenagh area, was needed to replace him. Máire Hoctor was deemed to be that person. But as party members ratified her selection she had to decide about her future as a secondary school teacher. Summers of voluntary work in faraway places like Nigeria with the Sisters of Mercy, things that teachers have time to do, had to be sacrificed. After her nomination to run in the 2002 General Election Máire left Nenagh CBS to concentrate on her political career. "One of the obstacles at the time was my full-time work as a teacher. There was absolutely no way that I was going to be able to do the work that there is to do prior to the general election. So I decided to take a career break. I just decided that I would go without pay for a year and give my full undivided attention to the constituency and to the people," says Máire. "The office here is a party office, but I am on bread and water courtesy of the Bank of Ireland," she quips. Now, on the run-up to the election Máire is looking to the future. She says it is difficulty to tell what the line-up of the next government will be but she is certain of one thing – she will not replace Michael Smith. "I am not sure what Michael’s intentions for the long-term future are, but I would believe, with the two seats returned for Fianna Fáil, that there would be at least one Minister in this constituency. Máire is certain that a Fianna Fáil government can deliver for North Tipperary in the future. "I believe that any constituency, or any town such as the size of Nenagh especially with a growing population, needs to have representation at Dáil level so that the interests are represented and voiced at Dáil level, and more important again at Cabinet table level. "Nenagh and North Tipperary has benefited with the presence of Fianna Fáil Ministers down through the years at the cabinet table. Industry has grown in North Tipperary with the efforts of Michael O’Kennedy. That shows the major benefits that have accrued for Nenagh because of his Ministerial position," says Máire. "I take pride in the fact that I am a hard worker and I am committed. I feel that I am close to the people and that they are close to me. That is the first thing that any public representative needs and particularly at Dáil level. "I can see the needs that are there already, for example, the input of greater industrial growth here in North Tipperary in general. Places like Thurles are really and truly in dire need of industrial input. "In the town of Nenagh I believe that the population we have will sustain a new industry and thankfully there are moves a foot with major developments in the town on the Dublin Road and the Limerick Road and I would certainly stand full square behind them in all the assistance they need to fast track their applications in planning and any forthcoming grants that they will qualify for," she says. But what will happen Máire Hoctor, and her political promises, if she fails to get elected? "I have not ever given that much thought to that situation, and that is being absolutely honest. I just see the General Election ahead and I am determined to be elected. ‘Maybe it is foolish of me not to think what the alternative is because if it happens that I am not elected then certainly I’ll have to make decisions. "I cannot see, at the moment, any other way but being elected. "I have always counted myself lucky that I have always loved teaching and so many people find themselves in jobs that they don’t like but I absolutely love it. I found it quite difficult to leave it behind last September. However that does not mean that I will go back to it immediately afterwards. "I suppose the opportunity to stand for the Seanad is one that will face me but it is not one that I am prepared to settle for at the moment," she says. 
