politics
{  
    July 24 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/there-was-no-pretence-it-was-a-political-donation-26081372.html }
BUILDER Tom Brennan told the Flood Tribunal yesterday he was never interested in a pretence or charade in giving a £60,000 political donation to former minister Ray Burke. Under cross-examination by Dominic Hussey, SC, for auctioneer John Finnegan, Mr Brennan said a political donation was money given to a politician or political party "for the work they do". Mr Hussey put it to him that the person receiving such a donation would need to know where it came from, and in this case, he said, Mr Finnegan did not know Mr Burke. Mr Brennan said the two men had never met in his company. Mr Hussey said Mr Finnegan had not paid any money to Mr Burke except out of the Canio funds the offshore account owned by Mr Brennan, his partner Joe McGowan and Mr Finnegan where it was put down as "architects' fees". The senior counsel said it had been suggested that the money was intended as a bribe, but Mr Brennan said as far as he was concerned it had been a political donation. "There was not any favour as far as I was concerned." The tribunal heard yesterday that the first item on the agenda after £420,000 was transferred to the Canio account was to pay Mr Burke the £60,000; £50,000 of which was from Mr Brennan and Mr McGowan's share. Mr Hussey asked why was there a pretence of a reserve fund if all the parties knew it was a political donation. But Mr Brennan said he was never interested in any pretence. "I just gave a political donation." He said there was no need for a reserve fund anyway. Mr Hussey also said the suggestion was that the planning permission the builders got in 1992 on lands at Sandyford was as a result of a payment to Mr Burke some years earlier. This was also refuted by Mr Brennan who said it had "nothing to do with it". He said Manor Homes initially got planning permission on lands in the area and then they had got it too. Mr Brennan said the reserve funds referred to in correspondence between the various parties in 1984 was "always £60,000 for a political donation". He told Mr Hussey that regardless that Mr Finnegan's company was giving £10,000, described in correspondence as for architects fees, he and Joe McGowan were going to make up £60,000 for a political donation. Mr Hussey said Mr Finnegan's position was that he never agreed that £10,000 would go to Mr Burke. "If Mr Finnegan agreed to give £10,000 to Mr Burke, why keep up the pretence of a reserve fund," Mr Hussey asked him. Mr Brennan said he did not know that answer to that. Mr Hussey said Mr Finnegan did not know the payment was for Mr Burke, but Mr Brennan said Mr Laurence Wheeler, solicitor for Canio, knew Mr Burke was to get £60,000 and he got "instructions from somebody to carry it out". After fees were deducted from the £420,000 there was £412,000 left to divide between the three individual companies owned by Mr Brennan, Mr McGowan and Mr Finnegan, and Mr Hussey said the "number one item on the agenda" at the first meeting was to see that Mr Burke got his £60,000. Brennan the builder was Fianna Fail foot soldier TOM Brennan was not an "Armchair General" for Fianna Fail, he told the Flood Tribunal yesterday. He said he was very much a "foot soldier" for the party. Meanwhile political donations were given to Fianna Fail by builders Tom Brennan and Joe McGowan relative to funds available at a given time, he said in reply to his counsel Martin Hayden, SC. The builder was one of the men on the ground working for the party back in the 1960's and wore out shoe leather canvassing door-to-door on large housing estates. Mr Brennan was cross-examined yesterday about money given to Ray Burke and said it was given as "political donation" not as favours. "As far as I was concerned it was going to Ray Burke and Fianna Fail." BUILDER Tom Brennan told the Flood Tribunal yesterday he was never interested in a pretence or charade in giving a £60,000 political donation to former minister Ray Burke. Under cross-examination by Dominic Hussey, SC, for auctioneer John Finnegan, Mr Brennan said a political donation was money given to a politician or political party "for the work they do". Mr Hussey put it to him that the person receiving such a donation would need to know where it came from, and in this case, he said, Mr Finnegan did not know Mr Burke. Mr Brennan said the two men had never met in his company. Mr Hussey said Mr Finnegan had not paid any money to Mr Burke except out of the Canio funds the offshore account owned by Mr Brennan, his partner Joe McGowan and Mr Finnegan where it was put down as "architects' fees". The senior counsel said it had been suggested that the money was intended as a bribe, but Mr Brennan said as far as he was concerned it had been a political donation. "There was not any favour as far as I was concerned." The tribunal heard yesterday that the first item on the agenda after £420,000 was transferred to the Canio account was to pay Mr Burke the £60,000; £50,000 of which was from Mr Brennan and Mr McGowan's share. Mr Hussey asked why was there a pretence of a reserve fund if all the parties knew it was a political donation. But Mr Brennan said he was never interested in any pretence. "I just gave a political donation." He said there was no need for a reserve fund anyway. Mr Hussey also said the suggestion was that the planning permission the builders got in 1992 on lands at Sandyford was as a result of a payment to Mr Burke some years earlier. This was also refuted by Mr Brennan who said it had "nothing to do with it". He said Manor Homes initially got planning permission on lands in the area and then they had got it too. Mr Brennan said the reserve funds referred to in correspondence between the various parties in 1984 was "always £60,000 for a political donation". He told Mr Hussey that regardless that Mr Finnegan's company was giving £10,000, described in correspondence as for architects fees, he and Joe McGowan were going to make up £60,000 for a political donation. Mr Hussey said Mr Finnegan's position was that he never agreed that £10,000 would go to Mr Burke. "If Mr Finnegan agreed to give £10,000 to Mr Burke, why keep up the pretence of a reserve fund," Mr Hussey asked him. Mr Brennan said he did not know that answer to that. Mr Hussey said Mr Finnegan did not know the payment was for Mr Burke, but Mr Brennan said Mr Laurence Wheeler, solicitor for Canio, knew Mr Burke was to get £60,000 and he got "instructions from somebody to carry it out". After fees were deducted from the £420,000 there was £412,000 left to divide between the three individual companies owned by Mr Brennan, Mr McGowan and Mr Finnegan, and Mr Hussey said the "number one item on the agenda" at the first meeting was to see that Mr Burke got his £60,000. @@STYL el,3 @@STYL cf,frb,10 Brennan the builder was Fianna Fail foot soldier 
