politics
{  
    October 28 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/mcdowell-is-not-the-pds-messiah-26257027.html }
WHO IS this guy Michael McDowell, anyway? If we are to  believe what the media tell us (never a good thing), the PDs  recently suffered a near-fatal blow in failing to win Michael back to membership. Wailing and gnashing of teeth all round. Mary Harney in the throes of despair. Och, mo chone, is it that he's gone and left us for good, never to return, the same Michael? Are Michael's political talents to be lost to us all forever? Are we to be permanently deprived of what the media insists on calling ``the radical alternative''? Perhaps he'll stand as an independent, the media speculates. Perhaps Fianna Fáil or Fine Gael will snap him up. It's like David Beckham misses training with Manchester United and the hacks start speculating that he's about to defect to a London club so he can spend more time with Posh and Bronx. Perhaps we should explain who he is, this Michael McDowell. Assumptions are made in the Dublin media that his every word and deed are carved on the hearts of the citizens. Not so, I think. If his name came up in a multiple choice question on Who Wants to Be a Millionaire? most people would know that he is Attorney General, and not a member of Boyzone, the inventor of the rasher sandwich or a character in Fair City. If, however, they were asked to name three policies that distinguish Michael from the average political hack the vast majority would have to phone a friend. Michael is beloved of the Dublin media because he is an affable sort, some of them count him as a friend, some as a good man with whom to share a dinner party. Like Pat Rabbitte, he amuses the media and has on occasion been known to provide more colourful quotes than say Denis Foley. The media are as generous as Michael himself in their estimates of his political potential, albeit with little evidence on which to base such guesses. The fact that Michael is reckoned to be a major player in our political premiership tells us something about the current degeneracy of the political parties. Michael is a Gonzaga lad. Dad was a barrister, Michael went from Gonzaga to UCD, to King's Inns and straight to the Bar. From that background, one would have to be a certifiable gom not to make a mark of some kind. While he is acknowledged to be a more than capable lawyer, McDowell with one eye on politics has not so far carved himself a courtroom reputation of the sort enjoyed by, for instance, Dermot Gleeson, Paddy McEntee or Adrian Hardiman. His fame derives primarily from his efforts in politics. And, in politics, he is better known for his ambitions than his achievements. Like many of his generation, McDowell was unhappy with the stagnant political set-up and looked for alternatives. His family background dictated that he should first look in Fine Gael. Happily, Garret FitzGerald was loosening that party's corsets, making the party more acceptable to the young, and in 1979 McDowell tried to be a Fine Gael councillor. Unhappily, the electorate didn't see it that way. Like many of his generation, in a country that had shrugged off the inwardness of the 1950s, McDowell didn't fancy the notion that morality should be imposed from above. Thus his liberalism in social matters. THAT tolerance, which once appeared brave, being only tentatively voiced in the political arena, has since often been mistaken by the media and perhaps by McDowell himself for radicalism. McDowell is as tolerant as a significant proportion of his generation. When people of his privileged background reject aspects of the status quo it is often mistaken for radicalism. What matters (see McDowell document elsewhere) is that you appear to be radical. McDowell has a hearty contempt for the stroke politics of the Haughey generation. He rejects the brutalism of the New Right, for whom a trust in unencumbered market forces marks the beginning and end of all thought. In short, he is no eejit. He saw the potential of the PDs and in a political environment not exactly bursting with intellectual innovation his reiteration of bog standard rightwing mantras (tax cuts, deregulation and, ehh, more tax cuts) was and is accepted by them as the pronouncements of a heavyweight. Unhappily, the electorate didn't see it that way. Had McDowell not lost his seat in 1997 he would undoubtedly have been a minister since then, and would undoubtedly still be a big cheese in the PDs. In some bitterness, he abandoned the party and went off to the Law Library to sulk. Even the consolation prize of the Attorney General job has not brought him back into the party fold. For most of us, a lucrative and highly-regarded career at the Bar, enhanced by periods of public service, including as Attorney General, would be enough to demonstrate that we are not wasting our lives. Not for a Gonzaga boy with frustrated ministerial ambitions, who will be 50 in about six months time. In June, Mary Harney promised to spend the summer ``rejuvenating'' the tired PDs. Instead, she spent the summer ducking the slings and arrows of the O'Flaherty scandal, into which she and her mate Charlie McCreevy walked the Government. The PD obsession with re-recruiting McDowell became desperate. He is now portrayed as the new messiah with the potential to revive the fortunes of that clapped-out, very small collection of individuals who have used up the few ideas they ever had. Why these people believe that a man who has had trouble stirring the enthusiasm of the electors of Dublin South East would attract `hordes' of punters is along with the final resting place of Shergar one of the minor mysteries of our time. Leaked documents show that McDowell wasn't exactly intending to return to the PDs. Instead, he suggested the launch in November of what would effectively be a new party. This would operate a ``political franchise'' (involving a ``variable political geometry''), pulling together the efforts of disparate groups such as the old PDs, the Pat Cox organisation in Munster and the Marion Harkin outfit in the West. A Dublin First party would be roped in (and, presumably, a Kerry First and a Wicklow First and a Galway First). Broadly agreed on fundamentals (tax cuts, deregulation and, ehh, more tax cuts) these Friends First outfits would present various local electors with the faces and names most likely to be ``giving them a political choice''. These semi-autonomous branches would all co-exist within the ``political franchise'', with McDowell as the Colonel Sanders of the Political Fried Chicken Party. Harney and her mates couldn't buy that. Not that they have anything against political fried chicken: they didn't see why McDowell should be Colonel Sanders. Today, there isn't a handspan of difference between any of the parties in the Dáil. There is no combination of coalition that won't be considered. It is organisational form and electoral strategy rather than policy that counts. Mary Harney: ``We need to reposition ourselves and strategise for the future.'' This, like the ``political franchise'' strategy, is the language of marketing. The PDs could once boast of being ``policy-driven'', though they had no policy that could not be readily assimilated by the other parties. As each party has come to stand for more or less the same thing, so each comes to stand for less and less, adopting policies they believe ``the young people'' will buy, abandoning any policy core value or not that might alienate any substantial part of the electorate. The Fried Chicken strategy has as good a chance of getting a disparate and desperate crowd of hopefuls into office as anything else. In the age of the political franchise, McPolitics rules. 
