politics
{ CONOR CRUISE O'BRIEN 
    May 21 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/euro-elections-hold-key-to-trimbles-survival-26150791.html }
There has been little interest, on the part of our Dublin media, in that part of the coming European elections which concerns Northern Ireland. Most of the coverage here of these elections has dealt exclusively with the candidates in the Republic, as if the contest for seats in Northern Ireland did not concern us. This might be laudable were it to reflect a policy of leaving Northern Ireland strictly alone, to run its own political affairs. But of course there is no such policy. All our political parties still profess themselves as committed to the peace process. And these elections will be the first serious test, this year, of how the electorate of Northern Ireland now feel about the process in question. In Northern Ireland, three seats in the European elections fall to be contested, in one electoral area, taking in the whole territory of Northern Ireland. The first two seats are not in doubt: they will be taken by Ian Paisley and John Hume, in whatever order, probably with a narrow margin. The political interest of the elections centres on the third seat, at present held by an official unionist, Jim Nicholson. The serious challenger is Bob McCartney, leader of the United Kingdom Unionist Party. Here I must declare interest. I cannot affect to be an impartial spectator of this contest. Although I resigned from the Presidency of the UK Unionist Party in circumstances which some of my more assiduous readers may remember I was subsequently elected as Vice-President of the Party and expect to play a modest but active part in Bob's campaign. What I have to say about the coming elections can therefore have no claim to be impartial, but I shall try to keep it realistic. Unionist voters are traditionally slow to shift allegiance either in general politics or with regard to personalities. Jim Nicholson can therefore reasonably expect to hold much and perhaps most of the personal vote which got him elected in the first place. The first question, therefore, is whether enough of that vote will slip to let Bob McCartney in. There are other questions of which the most important one concerns what will happen to Ian Paisley's surplus, which can be expected to be large. One thing can be regarded as certain: very little indeed of that surplus will go to Nicholson, who is regarded by Mr Paisley and his followers as so wishy-washy with regard to the Unionist cause, as to be a source of actual weakness to it. On the other hand, Mr Paisley would appear to have a clear political interest in the defeat of Jim Nicholson by Bob McCartney. Paisley and McCartney's common opposition to the whole process that culminated in the Good Friday Agreement has held firm over several years. If Paisley and McCartney are returned, and the Official Unionists lose all representation in the European Community, then the Official Unionists suffer a severe loss of prestige and influence. Such an outcome would be likely to be followed by a challenge to David Trimble's leadership of the Official Unionist Party. At least three plausible contenders are in sight though, of course, none of them has yet declared a candidature. If the Official Unionist Party is swept from the European board, however, a challenge to Trimble seems bound to follow. A cartoon in yesterday's Irish News reflects a rather general perception of the Official Unionist disarray. The cartoon shows David Trimble, John Taylor and Reg Empey with agitated features and mutually distrustful expressions. The caption over the cartoon reads: ``We need some fresh dynamic reasons for delay.'' Under some rather appalling pressure, Trimble manages to show a fairly cheerful expression, creditable in the circumstances. On the other hand, his political judgment shows itself to be poor. To the announcement of Bob McCartney's candidature, he responded with a peevish personal-political attack on Bob. It is absolutely natural that Trimble should be upset by Bob's candidature, which represents a serious potential threat to the future of his own leadership. But it is foolish for Trimble to let his anxiety show in a petulant attack. The maintenance of a well-bred calm would have been the correct response to the emergence of a hostile and potentially dangerous candidate. Weakness was clearly discernible, behind and through the petulance of Trimble. Then again, Trimble shows a carelessness with regard to the electoral campaign now opening, which must be chilling to his remaining followers and especially to his candidate, the unfortunate Jim Nicholson. Tomorrow, Trimble is on his way to Canada and the United States where he proposes to spend a week. Why does he turn his back on a critically important week in quite a short campaign in Northern Ireland? Trimbles political opponents, Ian Paisley and Bob McCartney, will be in there making hay throughout all that week that Trimble proposes to spend in North America. His candidate is a weak one: politically, personally and intellectually. He is just not a match for the political big guns that will be brought to bear against him. So why should Mr Trimble absent himself at such a critical political moment? The only explanation that seems plausible to me is that the man likes swanning around and being made much of in foreign parts. That is humanly understandable but politically injudicious. And even in human terms, the trip is likely to disappoint the tripper. Having rejected Tony Blair's proposal as he was forced to do by his party's rejection of it when he tried to put it to them Trimble automatically incurs the displeasure of President Clinton: Blair's long-time political ally, and now comrade in arms over Kosovo. And when a President turns cool towards a visitor, the atmosphere lower down, throughout America, will also be chilling to that same visitor. But not quite so chilling, perhaps, as what he may find on his return. Committed party-workers however few or many these may be are likely to resent a leader who is seen to leave them in the lurch while they are bearing the heat and burden of the electoral day. So all in all, in my opinion, Trimble will find a discouraging homecoming to an increasingly bleak political future, and at that, probably a short one. I admit I may possibly have got it wrong. Jim Nicholson may somehow manage to make it. If so I shall apologize for having misled. But I don't really think I shall be obliged to do that. I don't find that anyone, on any side, thinks the Official Unionists are in good political shape. And they would have to be in tip-top political shape to win with such a dim and otherwise burdened candidate as Jim Nicholson against such a strong and brilliantly articulate candidate as Bob McCartney. In any case, even if Nicholson were to scrape home, the Good Friday Agreement would still be on its last legs. If he wins at all or even if he loses Nicholson will have had to commit himself over and over again to the mantra no guns, no seats. Just possibly, Trimble might have the cool nerve to go back on that, once Nicholson is safely in (or even if he is rejected). Trimble has eaten his words before, on a number of occasions. His words may indeed be said to form a staple component of his political diet.  Whatever happens, the Assembly is not likely to survive until the end of the year. But even when the Assembly collapses, Sinn Fein-IRA will be claiming their reward for their loyalty to the peace process. The reward is to be the reform that is, the castration of the RUC. I believe Bob McCartney will be there, along with Ian Paisley, to fight by all political means for the survival and integrity of the RUC. And it is a call to which many, both in Britain and the Republic, may come to rally. 
