politics
{ Mandy Johnston 
    February 01 2015 11:28 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/mandy-johnston/pandering-to-the-masses-has-made-politics-impossible-30955658.html }
As Greece basks in the glory of its revolution, here we await our own middle-class hero. Lucinda Creighton has promised to deliver more details this month about her new political project, a rebooted reboot no less.  Creighton's declaration that her ambition is to run a candidate in every constituency is a tactical manoeuvre designed to project confidence in a nascent "anonymous" political party. It is a deliberate plan to entice candidates and enlist public support. Operating on the principle that success breeds success, Lucinda's promise of blanket representation encapsulates every geographical area in the country, and isolates none. This premeditated lack of definition means that while Lucinda and her band of merry men continue to define their unique selling point "Operation No-name" trundles on. For now, it is neither urban nor rural, neither is it liberal or conservative. The catch-all offering is designed to appeal to as many potential voters and candidates as possible. While the aspiration is commendable, it is inconceivable to anyone who has worked in politics that this is an ambition that can ever be realised by a new party at this juncture. As Lucinda chases candidates, there are life-changing considerations for anyone contemplating dipping their tiny toes into the shark-infested waters of Irish politics today. Even though the final destination of Lucinda's political train remains unclear, we can expect that a number of committed councillors will jump on board. However, those passengers arrive with political baggage which will have to be taken into consideration. What the new party really needs are brand new people. People who have not come from traditional political parties; intelligent candidates with fresh ideals and ideas. People who have an interest in public service, are committed to public and social reform and are ready to have a go. The sad reality is that anyone smart enough to actually do this would be absolutely crazy to give up a solid career for a life in politics, simply because it is just too hard and there is too much at stake personally. In contemplating a life dedicated to public service, there are probably two specific considerations which are life-changing. Firstly, the lack of structure in political life. Even the most effective planners are about as successful at planning their political week as Met Éireann is at forecasting our weather. No matter what is in the political diary, events, local or national, always take precedence over planning. The unpredictable winds of change ensure that even the most organised politicians are thrown off course on a daily basis. There is another more visceral factor which is perhaps an even greater stumbling block when it comes to enticing new recruits into politics, that of personal sacrifice. If the first criterion for entering the public arena is a willingness to serve the public, the next consideration is now about the impact it will have on one's personal life. Potential candidates must have an absolute understanding and acceptance that any semblance of normal private life cannot be maintained, for the candidate or for their loved ones either. Privacy is no longer a right but a luxury which few who enter politics enjoy. Whether we like it or agree with it, political figures are now fair game for public scrutiny. It is right that we have exacting standards for our politicians. However, at times the level of probity that elected representatives are expected to adhere to is unreasonable. Minor infringements or misdemeanours are exposed and examined to an in-ordinate degree. Society, it seems, expects political candidates to arrive on our ballot papers devoid of a past, professional or personal. Then they should go through life without making mistakes. Politicians have only themselves to blame. In repeatedly pandering to a populist agenda, they have created an impossible environment for others to enter. By appealing to the masses and choosing to follow the public rather than to lead them, they are now hoist by their own petard. If you manage to get through all of the above and still decide that a career in politics is for you, then there is of course one final thing you must consider before your mug shot ever adorns a lofty lamppost. It is, of course, the issue of attractiveness. To some extent, this may be out of your hands but I am told there is help available of a cosmetic nature for those who seek help. How kind Mother Nature has been to you it seems, is still a major part of deciding whether you are successful in Irish politics today. For women, this is much more of an issue than it is for men. It just is. Weight, clothes, hair, family and children are all fair game. Females are looked at and commented on in ways men never have to worry about. We can introduce all the gender quotas in the world but they will never change a mindset. Leinster House remains a very male-dominated environment; many in there have old-fashioned views. To some, if you are a female and if you "are not bad looking either" you stand more of a chance of succeeding and getting on through the political system. The good news for Lucinda is she has nothing to worry about, sure she's a lovely girl, so she will prosper. Ironically, were the attractiveness principle applied retrospectively, one or two of our male politicians should never have been elected in the first place. Should they Mr Lowry? Irish Independent 
