politics
{  
    October 26 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/sinn-feins-next-target-is-power-in-the-republic-26072377.html }
THE Sinn Fein organisation, which embraces, or is  embraced by, the Provisional IRA, is the only significant political organisation on this island that has an all-Ireland structure and the appeal to go with it, an appeal that is growing steadily. In its Perseus-like rescue this week, of that Andromeda in torment, the Good Friday Agreement, it further strengthened that all-Ireland appeal. It stands poised to make electoral gains in the South as a result, and it will do so under the guise of having "embraced democracy." The democracy it has embraced is not that of the other parties down here, nor indeed of those it opposes in Northern Ireland. Instead, it is uniquely subject to qualification, in that it includes the continued existence of the IRA and in a newly controlled form of the arms and the potential for armed action. The party has not accepted policing, on which the working of an exclusive democracy depends. And in its place will no doubt continue its own dismal form of alternative local 'authority', one based on fear and intimidation. We must look on this with equanimity. The massive applause for what they achieved during the week has told us so. We should welcome the prospect of their 'empowerment of people' North and South, apparently unachievable by other parties, and give it the praise it deserves. And there is something to praise. There is progress that satisfied General de Chastelain on three counts. It confirmed that a method had been agreed with the IRA on how to put arms beyond use. It demonstrated the working of this method through the so-called 'event' described as 'significant'. And it held out the prospect of further arms going in the future. This would only happen, however, according to the general, if what had been done was kept secret. In keeping it secret and looking to the future, the General was endorsing the continued central position of the Provisional IRA in the political affairs of the whole island. That is the basis on which Sinn Fein now presents itself. And it does so having protected the unity of the republican movement. This all-Ireland political organisation, with its united Ireland agenda intact, its disdain for the British Government and for unionism, and its eyes fixed on seats in the South, must make the other political parties down here feel a bit sick. The parties down here have not achieved a comparable all-Ireland dimension. They have not persuaded the unionists to like or trust them; nor has Sinn Fein. But Sinn Fein has forced unionists to work with them, and this has represented a dynamic expression of political power. The parties in the South have all tried to make nationalist or republican ideas and objectives acceptable, and in the process have rendered their versions of these ideas, on the whole, anaemic. Their unity of purpose has become a unity of acquiescence. And the very concern expressed on behalf of the North in a general way has been a weak alternative to Sinn Fein's aggressive and dynamic playing of power politics. This is particularly so in the case of Fianna Fail. And in the political cockpit of North Kerry we are seeing the potential for a battle between the new all-Ireland politics offered by Sinn Fein, and the old 26-counties politics offered by Fianna Fail. Ironically, Fianna Fail did once set out on the path to becoming an all-Ireland party. This was in 1968-69 when within the leadership of that party there were tough politicians determined to extend the Fianna Fail power base into Northern Ireland. Instead of what they saw as the 'cosy chat' approach, involving leaders like Sean Lemass and Terence O'Neill, and then Jack Lynch and Terence O'Neill meeting to talk over agreement and co-operation, something more radical would be tried. It was. Neil Blaney, Charles Haughey, Kevin Boland and others, tried to bring about a republican take over of nationalist politics in Northern Ireland. They sought to use a revived militant force republicanism in Northern Ireland as a vehicle for Fianna Fail in the Six Counties. It did not work. Instead, what they achieved was the creation of the Provisional IRA and a take over of civil rights agitation by people wedded to physical force whose ideology aimed at reunification. That tradition, which if we are honest about the details of what happened this week, and not over-impressed by the euphoria, took a huge step forward. It shed the overt character of warfare, actual or threatened, and replaced it with a more acceptable image. But, as David McKittrick sensibly said in this paper on Wednesday, Sinn Fein's politics 'will never be of the conventional sort, since Sinn Fein is very obviously not a conventional party. This is still an armed movement, even if it is one whose militant side is being eclipsed by its political wing.' The organisation - it is more than a party - is poised to go on enhancing its power, both in Northern Ireland and in the Republic. The Provisional IRA is set to control and monitor the whole issue of decommissioning. General de Chastelain confirms the truth of this. More importantly, the Provisional IRA does exactly the same. So what do the political parties down here do about it? What is most likely is that they will grit their teeth and fight on, ignoring the threat, the opposition parties taking some comfort from the fact that the likely casualties around the country - as in North Kerry - will probably be Fianna Fail rather than the other main parties. But as an approach this lacks any electorally dependable dynamic. What is needed is a very careful and strict imposition on the Sinn Fein organisation of our democratic system. They have handled the North's political instability to their own massive advantage. They have made inroads into the weaker areas of our own political system, gaining significant advantages and exploiting political disaffection, poverty, crime, drugs, and doing so in the more marginalised and politically unstable areas. There they work away like beavers. They express power, while the other political parties express consent. They are led by a demagogue, and his persuasions and threats clearly have growing appeal. The substance of what he says, despite his frequent appeals for careful attention, is less effective than the style and character of his own and of the collective leadership of Sinn Fein. We have drawn into our political system a new and threatening political organisation, nurturing it supposedly towards pure democracy, but accepting all the time a compromise that may now come to threaten us. 
