politics
{  
    November 25 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/no-level-playing-pitches-in-gaa-26251958.html }
Sport is the loser in the clash between bigotry and  expediency, says Emer O'Kelly THE Taoiseach said the decision by the GAA to abolish Rule 21 was "a difficult one". He's right, of course. It's always been difficult for political associations in this country to be anything other than bigoted. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said the abolition of the rule which prohibited members of the security forces in Northern Ireland from joining the GAA was good for those from "north and south who are considering a career in the new Police Service of Northern Ireland". Nothing to do with playing football and hurling, one notes. In other words, Mr Ahern and Mr Cowen both believe that the removal of the ban is a good thing only because it facilitates potential members who agree with their interpretation of the politics of Northern Ireland. No suggestion that the ban was a weapon of bigotry and political sectarianism and so unjustifiable in the first place. The Fine Gael leader, Michael Noonan, credited the GAA with "generosity and tolerance". What's generous about not denying people the right to join a so-called sporting organisation because of the job in which they earn their living? How would Mr Noonan, or any other politician, have described a GAA decision to expel any of its members who were convicted of IRA terrorist offences? Brave? Or an unwarranted intrusion into the political arena? Then we have the statements of that jewel of tolerance, openness and reason, Gerry Adams. He opposed the removal of the ban. Having, for once, found himself outnumbered in his bigotry, he said the decision should not be seen as an endorsement of any political party or policing service. He got that one right: no sports organisation should endorse a political party: it should endorse all legal political activity and exclude and condemn all illegal activity. Five of the Northern Ireland counties opposed the removal of the Rule 21 ban. They didn't oppose its removal for sporting reasons. They opposed it for political reasons. And the Sinn Féin Assembly member for Newry and Armagh Conor Murphy spoke in that political capacity when he regretted the removal of the ban. It didn't represent the new beginning set by the Good Friday Agreement, he said. Am I missing something here? What the hell has a hurling match got to do with the Good Friday Agreement, which is a political settlement? The vote, Murphy added, was not one of support for the North's new policing arrangements. If the GAA is a sporting organisation, of course it has nothing to do with policing, either by way of endorsement or by condemnation. But we all know differently. The maelstrom of claim and counter claim in the past year of debate over Rule 21 proved conclusively that the GAA is a profoundly political organisation, founded to reinforce a particular political view through its activities, and run by people who share a one-sided political vision (or lack of it). Not merely were members of the security forces in Northern Ireland banned from joining the GAA, every man and woman who voted unionist of any hue was regarded as an enemy; they still are. That is a political stance, not a sporting one. Sinn Féin was active in lobbying for the retention of the ban. But its members were not told to leave their politics outside the door. They were listened to, even if they didn't manage to win the day. If the GAA was not a political organisation, no arguments would have been permitted unless they related solely to sport. Political arguments would have been banned as surely as members of the security forces. But the ban itself was one of the core certainties in proving that the GAA is a political organisation. If it were not, our southern politicians would not now be welcoming the removal of the ban because it is "no longer necessary". To the dispassionate non-political viewer, it never was necessary. But dispassionate viewers were not welcome in the GAA; it catered only for committed nationalists. The organisation's rules and structures, like those of so many organisations founded on narrow and defensively bigoted lines, were never intended to be inclusive or to break down barriers. They were there to polarise opinion and attitudes lest people be tempted to blur the edges of bitterness and misunderstanding. If the divisions thrived, ignorance and hatred would burn with undiminished purity. There could be no possibility that the "other side" would be found not to have horns after all. It is no accident that the Catholic Church has been a stalwart defender of the Gaelic Athletic Association, just as it is the fiercest (and only) defender of sectarian education. How many of the parents perpetuating the protest in Ardoyne are members of the GAA? How many of them would tolerate their children being educated alongside the Protestant children whose parents are blockading the street? The divisions of the Ardoyne have nothing to do with religious rights, as is being pretended; Rule 21 had nothing to do with the protection from harassment of hurlers and footballers. Both have and had a direct political source: no surrender to tolerance; not an inch of compromise, only the total victory of wiping your opponent's nose in the dirt of defeat. Southern politicians are welcoming the removal of Rule 21 because it will facilitate "their own": Catholics who may join the new Police Service of Northern Ireland. They couldn't give a tinker's cuss for the existing and future Protestant members of that force. They're still the enemy; after all, they aren't really Irish. 
