politics
{  
    October 03 2010 03:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/a-president-should-transcend-politics-and-protect-our-heritage-26686251.html }
It's funny how old habits die hard. Fergus Finlay jumped to the defence of the Labour Party during the week. For someone who has set himself up as a non-political nominee for the presidency, it is curiously ominous that he should do so. Maybe it was my mention in this column last week of Michael D Higgins and the possibility of him obtaining the nomination for presidency from the Labour Party that spurred him into action, or perhaps he defended the party in the hope of ingratiating himself with the king-makers within. Whatever the motive, he hasn't displayed the attribute of being non-political. He is of course entitled to have a political opinion. He is indeed expected to jump to the defence of the citizens of the country -- but to be party partisan is another matter. He of all people should know that party politics is populated by pragmatic people; if he does not win popular support, then he will not be selected as their candidate. No amount of bobbing up and down over the political parapet will enhance his position as party nominee for president. He's either a runner or he's not. We don't need another nay-sayer, Government-bashing, party supporter as President. We have those in abundance in Leinster House. We want someone we can look up to in these turbulent times. Someone we can all be proud of when the campaign is over and the winner is ensconced in Aras an Uachtarain. Someone we're happy and proud to call our President, regardless of how we as individuals voted. That is the attraction of having a non-political candidate, as was evident in the Joe Duffy opinion poll. Fergus was doing very well until he -- needlessly, in my opinion -- jumped in to defend the Labour Party's position on policies. After all, Mr Finlay, you're not one of its advisers now. If you still have an "in" in the party, a quiet word in its ear on how to handle the situation would suffice and you would probably ingratiate yourself more that way than by taking the public pulpit approach. And, while we're on the subject of advice, I question the wisdom of your approach to enlightening people about Labour policy. "Next time you hear someone saying that, I'll suggest, parcel up the entire set of policies you've published and send them off," you said. "That'll teach them because a pretty substantial box will arrive on their doorsteps." It's not a pile of papers plonked on the doorsteps of those who question the presence of policies that's needed. Surely it is a question of how the party is conveying its message. There has been much talk about how parties and people refuse to accept any personal responsibility for the difficulties we find ourselves in now. The Labour Party should take note and find the particular in the general. It has been accused of not presenting policies, if it does have them, so the onus is on the party to ensure that the public is made aware of them. Labour should stop blaming the media, Fianna Fail and Fine Gael for claiming it has none. It would serve the party better to look at its own means of conveying the message to the general public. Fergus is, of course, a strategist, a very good strategist, ruthless and determined in pursuit of his goal -- as was evident in the part he played in blocking any competition to Mary Robinson's candidacy selection for president within the Labour Party in 1990. He also proved himself a good strategist and political manoeuvrer as one of Dick Spring's advisers. Manoeuvrers and strategists have their place in politics, and to say otherwise is injudicious. But is that what we need in a president? The person we select to the highest office in the State cannot be coloured by party politics. The term of office is seven years. That's a long time. Time enough for emotions to cool, for the dust to settle and for (hopefully) our finances to improve. Time enough for governments to come and go. To seek election on the back of a particular party's popularity is not good enough. We want someone who transcends politics, who personifies our cultural and literary heritage. In a world of increasing globalisation and encroaching European intervention in the administration of the State, we need someone who will represent our Irish culture and heritage. That is our personal identity as a nation, not credit rating or bank debt or the billions poured into Anglo. A true diplomat who can inspire us at home and enhance our reputation abroad. Someone who is capable of being non-political. Fergus Finlay's forte is as an excellent backroom handler; an effective CEO answerable to a board of directors. Of the political trio involved in the early Nineties' Labour Party renaissance, Finlay is the last man standing. Dick Spring and John Rogers have left the political stage. Could it be that as the only member of that trio not to hold political office, he feels that in some way he lost out? Whatever his reasons, his attributes certainly do not stretch to being non-political. By reacting like an old political hack, Fergus Finlay will damage his chances of becoming President of Ireland -- that is, if he hasn't already done so. Old habits die hard. Sunday Independent 
