politics
{ Donal Lynch 
    October 31 2010 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/the-sun-sets-on-camelot-26694585.html }
For many decades, the Kennedys ruled supreme as America's royal family. But the death last year of patriarch Senator Ted Kennedy signalled the end of an era. The third generation has backed out of politics, and now the glamorous dynasty is peopled with trust-fund babes and charity honchos. The stultifying effect of too much money and privilege, and their attendant bedfellows -- too much booze and sex -- has taken its toll. Donal Lynch reports from New York 'Camelot RIP." The crowing words of conservative commentator Michelle Malkin rang out across the airwaves in America this past spring, tolling the bell for Irish-America's most famous dynasty. And where usually her witterings would be met with a shrieking chorus of Democratic defenders, this time there was deafening silence. Even the Kennedy family's staunchest defenders can see the writing on the wall. Friends, the hard fact is this: for the first time since 1944, there will be not a single member of the storied Irish-American-clan contesting the upcoming mid-term November elections. Ted's enjoying eternal rest, Caroline (the "princess of Camelot") was laughed out of town during the New York Senate elections a couple of years ago and Patrick seeming to sense the wind was blowing the wrong way in Massachusetts, decided not to seek re-election. They leave behind a new generation of Kennedys, swathed in privilege and low-level celebrity, eager to tip-toe out the back of the political fortress and on to cushy charity committees. The last real hope, dashing 29-year-old Joseph P Kennedy III, grandson of Robert Kennedy and son of former congressman Joseph P Kennedy II, confirmed he had been discussing a run this November with his friends and family, but finally decided against doing it. With that decision, the sun has seemingly set on a political empire that once stretched coast-to-coast, its tendrils extending to every aspect of popular culture. Only the dimly reflected power of the in-laws and former in-laws remains (probable New York governor Andrew Cuomo's ex-wife Kerry is Robert Kennedy's daughter; California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger is, of course, married to JFK's niece, Maria Shriver). But for a clan known as "America's royal family", this will be cold comfort. The New York Times -- never one to hastily place nails in a liberal coffin -- has called it "the end of an era". And yet, perhaps, the dynasty's well-meaning obituary writers would do well to remember that there was always much more to Camelot than mere political power. In fact, you could almost say politics was the pretext for everything else. For a family that enjoyed their heyday before the majority of Americans were born, they still enjoy an enduring cultural relevance. The nearly 600,000 people who stood in the long queue for the Jacqueline Kennedy Show at the Metropolitan Museum of Modern Art in New York a few years ago hardly gave a hoot that the Kennedys' influence was waning, even in the Massachusetts stronghold. Books on the family continue to appear at a staggering rate. The very initials JFK and RFK, the words Jackie O -- they are all redolent of a heady time of longing and rebellion; a time when the world was in its adolescence. The memory of those years seems burned in the collective consciousness, even of those who were not yet born. America and the world might have fallen out of love with the entitlement of the Kennedy politicians, but they remain deeply enamoured of the romance, nostalgia and murky mythology of the family. And, of course, there is a new generation of Kennedys, even if they aren't exactly visible. Their story is one that Time magazine called "making peace with a myth that can kill you if you let it". "They have been downsized by their own frailties but also, what politics has become" the magazine opined, alluding not only to the so-called Kennedy curse (too much drinking and sex, mostly) but perhaps also to the stultifying effect that too much money and privilege can have on ambition and the ferocious anti-incumbency that has swept American politics. Like the current second-generation of British starlets (Peaches Geldof, Kelly Osbourne, Kimberly Stewart), instead of standing on the shoulders of giants they prefer to swim in their slipstream, moving with the tide, only faster. In some ways, they are an improvement. Three generations of beautiful wives have bred out many of the physical flaws; they are better looking than the old Kennedys -- the same high cheekbones remain but the iconic Easter Island heads of yesteryear have been reduced to normal size and the smiles are no longer toothily horsey. And they have a youthful insouciance that would probably have old Joe Kennedy reaching for whiskey and a shotgun. The raffish Bobby Kennedy III -- a 26-year-old grandson of Senator Bobby Kennedy and a great nephew of JFK, is exhibit A. Currently in Italy filming and starring in his self-penned movie debut AmeriQua, his life is a million miles from the campaigning, pollstering, high-level wheeling-dealing that preoccupied his forefathers. According to his sister Kick Kennedy, the film is based on her brother's own life experience -- the plot deals with a layabout graduate whose parents cut him adrift with just a cheque for a few grand and an ultimatum to find himself a job (Bobby himself insists that the plot is made up). Bobby has enlisted Alec Baldwin and Glenn Close to co-star in the movie. Giancarlo Giannini -- Mathis in the last two Bond movies -- will also star. Bobby said he wanted to cast his sister Kick -- an actress herself and named after JFK's sister, Kathleen Kennedy -- but one of the stipulations of the tax breaks that came with filming in Italy was that most of the people involved in the film had to be Italian. Not that Kick, a student at Stanford, needs to be too worried; she has already played herself on an episode of Gossip Girl and plans to have more auditions in New York this autumn. It's likely that her family name was leveraged somewhat in securing the services of Baldwin and Close (both staunch Democrats) in her brother's film, but at the same time you suspect he must have some talent. As Tatler UK -- which profiled Kennedy III -- suggested, a mere vehicle for some entitled boy-heir on a gap year probably wouldn't cut it for stars of their calibre. And if Bobby Kennedy III isn't continuing the family legacy of hard, political power, he is not a complete discontinuation of the Kennedy tradition of mixing movie glamour with excellent breeding. Going back to the beginning, the heady mixture of Hollywood, money and power was an essential part of the family lore. Along with his oil and bootlegging sidelines, the patriarch Joe Kennedy also owned the largest building in Chicago, the Merchandise Mart, which later became a film studio. For many years, he kept the film star Gloria Swanson as his mistress. Joe's daughter Patricia married the actor Peter Lawford, who had also been a member of Frank Sinatra's Rat Pack. Her father was understood to have approved. Even old Joe seemed to realise that connections to Hollywood could only help the Kennedy brand. AmeriQua is being produced by Marco Gualtieri, an Italian concert promoter who recently made a fortune by selling his share in Italy's version of Ticketmaster. He met the young Kennedy at the inauguration party for Barack Obama at Hickory Hill, Bobby Kennedy's late grandfather's house, just outside Washington. The party was thrown by the young actor's aunt, Kerry Kennedy, friend of Obama, president of the Robert F Kennedy Center for Social Justice and Human Rights and board member for Amnesty International. The Kennedy boy impressed the Italian producer by approaching him rather than other constellations in the galaxy of politicians and celebrities in the room, and telling him in perfectly fluent Italian that he wanted him to become involved in a movie about his experiences in Italy. The plot of the film, with its irresistible comparisons to The Talented Mister Ripley, seems to be about a young buck standing up to the old order, which still pulls the purse strings. And there must be a sense of wanting to bite the dynastic hand that feeds among these young Kennedys. Who really can blame them? No one understands better than one of their clan what it really costs to go into politics. If they even attempt to claim what has been held up as a birthright, they must also accept the stultifying comparisons that come with walking in the footprints of giants. Caroline Kennedy, daughter of JFK, strong-jawed, reassuringly liberal, perfectly Kennedy, was humiliated in New York two years ago; dismissed as a lightweight airhead trading on her name. It is little wonder if her cousins want nothing to do with politics. "They're all competing with icons and legends," said political consultant David Axelrod, who has worked with several of them. That is partly what is drawing them away from Massachusetts, where, as Patrick Kennedy once put it: "Whatever I did, I would be trampling on hallowed ground." But that's only the beginning of what it takes to be a Kennedy in America today. For this generation, it is as much about scrabbling for a credible identity as about cashing in on a legacy. And the first part is the most difficult bit of that equation by far. In retrospect, many see the crumbling of the Kennedy legacy, as well as its slow slide into a pure showbiz sideshow, as beginning with the chiselled form of John F Kennedy Jr, who tragically died in a plane crash with his wife Carolyn Bessette-Kennedy in 1999. In death, he became truly great, the handsome embodiment of the Kennedy curse and what his uncle Ted would call a possible contender for the presidency. In life, Kennedy Jr was mocked as a pretty face who would never live up to his father's legacy; a man who failed the New York Bar exam twice. Eventually, we stopped caring about any of that -- he was just so damn gorgeous -- and his successful career in magazine publishing became respectable and set the tone for a new generation of opt-out Kennedys. The world was changing, too -- celebrity didn't need a reason. Princess Diana was the Queen of Hearts and JFK Jr was very definitely America's Handsome Prince. His cousins face similar expectations, but they aren't buffered by his popularity or his princely charisma. William Kennedy Smith was his own special case, earning eternal notoriety with the protracted rape trial in 1991 -- he now fights to have land mines banned. Aside from Bobby Kennedy III's film ambitions, most of the third-generation cousins have done public-service work that doesn't require any particular voter say-so. Tim Shriver runs the Special Olympics and has transformed it from mere fundraising into a fully fledged civil-rights movement. Rory Kennedy makes films about human rights and addiction. Robert Kennedy Jr, father of Bobby III, made headlines in 2001 when he was jailed in Puerto Rico for breaking into a bombing range to protest US military exercises on Vieques Island. While in prison, his wife Mary gave birth to their sixth child; they named him Aidan Caohman Vieques Kennedy. After Robert returned home, he threw himself into his long crusade to clean up the Hudson River in New York City. An attorney today, he campaigns for greater responsibility in the clean up of the Gulf oil spill. If such activism appears meagre next to the Bay of Pigs, Vietnam or going to the moon, it is not. It is simply the most a person weighed down by so much history could do. Anyway, he looks like Gandhi compared to his young cousins. Katherine Schwarzenegger, daughter of Arnie and Maria Shriver has leveraged her name to get a book deal. Hilariously, breathlessly titled Rock What You've Got: Secrets to Loving Your Inner and Outer Beauty From Someone Who's Been There and Back, the maiden tome by the 21-year-old was inspired by her internship at the Dove Campaign for Real Beauty. It's about girls feeling better about their bodies, but this granddaughter of the dynasty admits she hasn't quite been "there and back" -- she's never had an eating disorder. But her involvement in the cause and others is indicative of the fact that the Kennedys are expected to step up to the charity plate, and frequently do. JFK's granddaughter Rose Kennedy Schlossberg is a student at Harvard, where she was once seen showing Lindsay Lohan and Samantha Ronson around campus and the New York Post called her "Jackie 2.0" (wishful thinking), but other than that has remained disappointingly free of any drama or excitement. Heiress to a massive trust fund, she is, according to her cousins, seen as a leader in the family, but other than working on some charity committees at Harvard, she has shown no interest in politics at all. Philanthropy is the new generation of Kennedy's safe ground. They all have their safe pet causes. Katherine Schwarzenegger designs handbags to raise awareness of maternal mortality. Like all members of the clan, she has the money and the connections, and nobody can criticise her for trying to help those less fortunate. But in the face of expectations that come with their name, they have had to talk us into accepting their dimmed ambitions. "There is an enormous pressure in our family to give something back in return for all of the privileges we have received," Bobby Kennedy III has said. Maria Shriver has opined that "there is more than one way to serve". The cut-throat need to rule seems to have been slowly bred out of the family. The Daily Beast, Tina Brown's political website, last year took a closer look at the branches of the increasingly bald Kennedy political tree. It made pretty grim reading. The youngest member they rated in any way was the scandal-marred Patrick Kennedy (who pleaded guilty in 2006 to driving under the influence of prescription drugs). The rest were all vestiges of the old order, who have ruled themselves out of running for office or have been soundly rejected by the electorate. It is too early to tell if the Kennedy dynasty is really over. Caroline Kennedy might very well try her hand at winning another election, but her brief public campaign does not augur well for her political future. While politics is still at the heart of what it means to be a Kennedy, there are other, very real reasons to believe the dynasty has lost its hold on the public imagination. The most obvious reason is that we have seen an identifiable generational change within the Democratic Party. Voters in America were excited two years ago by the fact that the party leadership was cutting loose from the old order. Obama represents to many Americans not simply a better style of public leadership, but the arrival of a new generation of Democrats -- who had established themselves in the Age of Reagan, as the historian Sean Wilentz has called it -- and who are not tied to the tired stances and biases of previous generations. During his inaugural address, Obama said: "We come to proclaim an end to the petty grievances and false promises, the recriminations and worn-out dogmas that for far too long have strangled our politics." He didn't use the word Kennedy, but we knew he was throwing that baby out with the Clinton bath water. They will continue to dot the cultural landscape, and their charity work -- especially the Special Olympics -- is truly laudable. But their hard political relevance wanes with every passing generation. It's a long, slow slide from being the rulers of the free world, straddling Washington and Hollywood to becoming charity dames and trust-fund babes. America has woken up to the idea that political dynasties are not necessarily something to cherish. Perhaps one day the rest of the world will follow suit. Sunday Independent 
