politics
{  
    September 05 2010 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/women-in-politics-need-real-fire-in-their-bellies-26678055.html }
IT was with some regret that I learned Olwyn Enright has decided to quit politics. I don't know her, but as she is one of only 23 women out of 166 TDs in Leinster House, her absence makes a disproportionate difference to the gender balance there. In her statement Olwyn cites family reasons for retiring, implying that politics is unfriendly to women and to mothers -- "With a young family, I will not be in the position to give the enormous commitment required and that my constituents deserve." But is politics really any more unfriendly to women (or mothers) than any other challenging job? When I ran Beauty at Blue Door, I had a number of female clients who held down highly paid, demanding jobs that necessitated international travel and long working hours. Indeed, unsociable working hours aren't restricted to highly paid women. Within the hospitality industry, there are a disproportionate number of women who work the most unsociable hours, sometimes at short notice, and still manage to raise a family. I do understand that in Olwyn's case she represents Laois/Offaly; and her husband, Joe McHugh, represents Donegal North-East. Now in any language that geographical spread does not make for easy co-habitation. However, if a choice had to be made, why was it Olwyn, rather than her husband, who had to give up politics? What makes his political career more important than hers? Of course, there is the possibility that she just got fed up with the whole political game and really wants to be a stay-at-home mum. If that is the case, then please say so. Don't shroud the decision in a mantle of saintly motherhood. There are women in politics who manage work and family, and their family is not bereft of commitment and affection because of their job. I can well understand how you can get tired of politics. But you can get tired of any job. While being a TD is hard work, it's still a job that has flexibility, and an income of €90,000 a year plus office and travel expenses -- allowing far more scope to provide back-up support for family care than the average woman on shift or casual work who is struggling to bring up a family, sometimes alone. In 2006, a creche facility was set up in Kildare House to cater for pre-school and infant children, with special arrangements made for late sittings. I understand from the Dail information office that this facility has been widely availed of by female, and in some cases male, TDs. As a member of the Oireachtas, you are not entitled to statutory maternity leave as you are not considered an employee. However, there is an informal agreement between the parties on pairing for new mothers. Nobody says the system is perfect. It's not perfect for any family member. But when you decide to run for the Dail, you do so with full knowledge and full consent. It seems a bit disingenuous then to blame or cite the job as being family unfriendly when the going gets tough or when you just get fed up with the workload. Lots of mothers and fathers would love to stay at home with their children. Those that have the financial resources to do so are lucky: they can follow their dream. But please don't use the family as an excuse to follow your dream. Call it as it is. There is nothing wrong with wanting to stay at home with your children. Olwyn is the second female deputy to cite family reasons for retiring from politics in the past three years, the other being Mildred Fox. It is interesting to note that both of these women came from political families and would have had first-hand experience of what family life was like in a political household. Mildred won her late father's seat in a by-election in 1995 and Olwyn replaced her father in Leinster House following the general election of 2002. Most studies on women in politics show that their biggest obstacle is getting through the selection process. Voters may well choose their candidates, but they can only do so after the political parties have limited the options. I know from my own experience in party politics that to come through the system is bruising. You need to be tough and focused, learn the rules of the game and not shy away from playing hardball. Research has found that female role models active in politics can encourage other women to join political parties and stand for nomination. It takes courage to put your name forward, to raise your head above the parapet. To have a true democracy, we need gender balance in our Government. In order to achieve that, we need women who will fight their way through the system and pave the way for others to follow. Of course, we could improve women's representation in Dail Eireann by adopting a quota system. In the Joint Committee on Justice, Equality Defence and Women's Rights second report on Women's Participation in Politics, it is stated: "The advantage of the mandatory or legislated 'electoral gender quota' is that it can be more effective in a shorter timeframe, by ensuring that all parties must comply with the same principles. Whether candidate quotas are adopted on a voluntary or mandatory basis, they are generally only on a temporary basis, with a built-in 'sunset clause' providing that they will lapse once certain targets are met." However, for now we must deal with each individual party's system of selecting candidates. Most of our female TDs came through the system fighting every step of the way. Because they have to fight every step of the way, they are women of courage and determination, of whom we should be extremely proud. For Olwyn and Mildred the selection process seems to have been smoothed somewhat. Their very name gave them an advantage. Both women served us very well during their tenure, but could it be that they found themselves involved in the family business without the necessary fire in their belly? Sunday Independent 
