politics
{ Colin Murphy 
    August 17 2013 03:04 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/books/alls-not-quiet-on-the-political-front-and-the-message-is-vive-la-revolution-29505823.html }
In an old parish hall in Dolphin's Barn one evening recently, I witnessed the birth of a revolution. A few days later, in a run-down old tenement in the north-inner city, I witnessed the failure of another. I was there in the line of duty as your columnist. My mission: to visit the front lines of political theatre in Ireland. In Dolphin's Barn, I saw Revolution!, a parable about a prospective citizens' uprising in Dublin, devised by director Tracy Ryan and the actors. This was old-school agit-prop political theatre, designed to inspire the audience to action. In keeping with their activist politics, the company is bringing Revolution! to community groups across the country, wherever they're invited. (They next hope to stage it in Dún Laoghaire in September. See www.facebook.com /striketheplay.) On Henrietta Street, a stone's throw from Parnell Square, I visited the 'Dublin Tenement Experience', set in an authentic Georgian tenement house, where the theatre company Anu is presenting Living the Lockout seven times daily. Devised by Anu, the experience consists of a tour of the house, during which we meet some of its residents of a century ago, and learn of the impact upon them of the 1913 Lockout. If that sounds dry, it isn't. It is visceral, blood-stained theatre that vividly brings to life the sadness and hardship of the time. (It runs until the end of August and will be followed by Anu's project for the Dublin Fringe, Thirteen. See www. anuproductions.wordpress.com.) These shows, and my own recent foray on to the stage with my play about the bank guarantee, Guaranteed! (which is touring in November, and on which Tracy Ryan worked), have had me thinking about political theatre in Ireland, something that is oft said to be in a poor state. It's true that we rarely see politicians on our stages, unlike the UK, where politics is a mainstay of mainstream theatre and TV drama. And the kind of political theatre that Ryan is doing, which has popular mobilisation as an explicit aim, has a stronger tradition in the UK than here. But Irish theatre does do a different type of politics superbly, and this is the politics of the home and community. In different ways, at different times, each of Sean O'Casey, Tom Murphy and Mark O'Rowe have used domestic stories to tell the bigger story of the failure of Irish politics. In their stories of social breakdown, we could see the failure of the Irish State. Anu is in this tradition, though it is innovating within it, successfully straddling documentary and drama. The night I saw it, Revolution! was hosted by the local People Before Profit organisation; Living the Lockout is supported by the unions. So is this political theatre just for people who agree with their politics? And is political theatre invariably lefty? I don't think so. As part of Guaranteed!, each night we had a post-show discussion. One night, I found myself sandwiched between the extremes of the Irish political spectrum: on the (hard) left, Richard Boyd Barrett, of People Before Profit; on the (hard) right the economist Constantin Gurdgiev. They disagree fundamentally on how the economy and society should be run. But they agreed vehemently on one key point: Irish people should be more involved in making those decisions. There should be more debate and more dissent. There should be more participation. This is the most fundamental point about the politics of theatre. Bringing people together in a room – particularly in an age when people spend ever more time staring at ever-smaller screens, on their own – is the cornerstone of political engagement. You didn't have to agree with the solution suggested in Tracy Ryan's Revolution! to be moved by the energy with which it was staged. You don't have to be a supporter of the unions today to be inspired by the resilience of destitute Dubliners in the winter of 1913. And you don't have to agree with everything that's said on stage to be invigorated by the shared act of witnessing it. That's why Shakespeare was the great political playwright. And that's why, in a time of crisis and widespread despair, theatre can be a potent tool for reinvigorating our politics. colinmurphy@independent.ie Irish Independent 
