politics
{  
    April 13 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/trade-union-ethos-always-influenced-political-mind-26922490.html }
The seeds of a flourishing political career were sown in the early years of Michael Bells life.  Described by many as outspoken,... The seeds of a flourishing political career were sown in the early years of Michael Bell’s life. Described by many as “outspoken”, if not controversial, and undoubtedly a man with a formidable presence, the Labour TD’s early background as a young Trade Union Official served him well for the gritty political career that ensued “I had been influenced by the trade union ethos as my father was a staunch supporter of workers’ rights, as was my grandfather, and it was after I took up a post in the Footwear Industry at 18 that I first became involved in a trade union,” said Deputy Bell. “They were much more dangerous times to be involved in trade unions, if you were a member you were characterised as a Communist.” But despite any fears surrounding trade union membership, a young Michael Bell went on to become National Organiser/General Secretary of I.S and L.W.U at just 28 years old and became eventually the youngest ever National Group Secretary of I.T.& G.W.U. “I was posted at Dundalk’s SIPTU branch in the early 70’s and have very happy memories of my time here, and have still kept in touch with a few of my friends from this area,” added Deputy Bell. Changes were afoot though in 1974 when he stood for the first time as a Fianna Fail candidate in the County Council and Drogheda Corporation elections, a transition from his trade union work, which he adds “ was excellent training for life on the political scene.” Controversy ensued though , when he publicly criticised Fianna Fail policies, and after deciding to withdraw from the party, he relinquished his County Council, Drogheda Corporation and North Eastern Health Board seats. Continuing with his work as a member of the Irish Council of Trade Unions, and just two years after his break with Fianna Fail, Michael’s background encouraged him to become a member of the Labour party. “Despite having relinquished my seats on the County Council and the Drogheda Corporation, politics was still in my blood and I was eager to return to political life,” he added. “All the while though, I was receiving tremendous support from my wife Betty, whose own interest in politics, was an inspiration, especially when she became one of the first women to be elected to Louth County Council.” Indeed, Betty and Michael formed a unique partnership, combining their interest in issues such as workers rights and encouraging women to become involved in politics. “We were a great sounding board for each other during stressful canvassing times,” he added. What followed though in the early 1980’s was what he describes as “the biggest decision of my life, whether to resign my trade union status in order to commit myself to a full time political career, and run in the elections for the Dail.” Following unsuccessful Dail elections in 1981 and February 1982, Michael was elected as Louth’s Labour Deputy in November 1982, and ran a successful re-election campaign in both 1987 and 1989. Election performances were promising, as he topped the poll in the ‘89 elections with 8,375 first preferences, boosting the Labour vote by 5.7% on 1987. In the ‘89 European elections, the Labour Deputy secured 49,870 first preferences and the narrowest of margins in the final count between himself and the Fianna Fail candidate necessitated a recount. The final decision, not going in his favour was appealed by Bell to the High Court. Despite the success achieved in his political life, and that of his wife’s who went on to great success in Drogheda’s Mayoral office, tragedy struck the Bell family in the late 1980’s. “Betty and I were on an Official trip to Sicily, in our capacities as Drogheda Deputy Mayor and myself as Representative of the Town Twinning Committee, when we heard, of our son’s death.” It was a traumatic time for the family, and for Michael’s children Thomas, Linda, Pamela and Paula, who continued to be supportive of both parents through very difficult times. “It is certainly one regret I have of the political scene.... it takes you away from your family, and especially your children,” reflects Michael. “Although, I would admit that there are easier ways to make a living, I have always enjoyed the cut and thrust of political life. Despite the negatives, there are positive aspects too, and at the end of the day, if you’re not working hard enough........ you can be assured to get a kick up the backside from the electorate!”  Reflecting on what the future holds, Michael Bell confirmed his commitment to contest the next general election, canvassing for which, he adds “began the very day after the last election!” Nominated at a recent meeting of the Louth branch of the Labour party, Deputy Bell added that it is expected that he will be unopposed at the party’s constituency convention. “We will be mounting a vigorous campaign between now and the general election and will highlight the issues and broken promises of the present Fianna Fail/P.D Government.” “I am confident that the electorate in Co. Louth will once again ensure that Labour in Louth is represented in the Dail to ensure that the real problems of all people are constantly highlighted.” Looking at the present state of Irish politics, Deputy Bell added “With the recent spate of tribunals, we have reached a particularly low point, which is certainly not a good advertisement to our younger generation. It provides little encouragement for young people to enter political life, as people are very sceptical about who they can trust.” Asked about his relationship with Louth Deputies, Dermot Ahern, Seamus Kirk and Brendan McGahon, Michael adds “Well, we are all working towards similar goals, and coming from the same county, we are all eager to improve the standard of life for all people in Louth.” “There is a sense of growing up together, particularly with Deputy McGahon and myself as we were elected at roughly the same time, both having similar feelings of pride in our home County.” The present Coalition system of government is, according to Deputy Bell, perhaps the most positive aspect of Irish politics. “I would be very surprised to see a one party government again in my lifetime. That creates too much of a dictatorship; a Coalition government is more preferable as a greater spectrum of views are taken into consideration.” Aside from his future political aspirations, Michael has considered writing a book of his experiences in the army during the outbreak of conflict in Northern Ireland, when he was stationed at Gormanston and Castleblaney. “It was a particularly frightening time, as thousands of ‘refugees’ as they were called were flooding across the border. They were very tense times, as we did not know how long this conflict would continue, and certainly no one expected that it would last nearly thirty years.” Considering what the future might hold, Michael Bell reflects on the issues closest to his heart, saying “I would like to work in the Third World countries for a while as I feel that we should give something back to these people who are not fortunate enough to live under a thriving economy such as our own.” 
