politics
{ Eoghan Harris 
    February 10 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/i-have-an-inalienable-right-to-change-my-mind-26239133.html }
Having second thoughts is a political virtue, writes Eoghan Harris in self-defence, after an attack by Michael Noonan RTE's No Tears was unfair to Michael Noonan. And since I detest dramas dressed as documentaries, I would normally support him against RTE. Alas, I am only human. Having read his huffy response (delivered at a dinner for political correspondents) to a recent column of mine as reported by Renagh Holohan in the Irish Times I feel no need to save him from the death of a thousand cuts, dissolves and fade-outs. But Noonan's central criticism of me that I change my political mind needs a wider circulation for two reasons. First, because I believe that changing your mind is a cardinal political virtue, and he clearly does not. Second, because Irish politics are beyond boring, and political feuds keep the public mildly interested in politics, add to the gossipy gaiety of the nation, and distract us from Allied Irish Banks and abortion. So here is Noonan's hilarious take on Harris. "Well, Harris was a great friend of John Bruton, and is best remembered for the Twink Ard Fheis. He was a militant republican in the 1960s, but that didn't work out too well. Then he was a Marxist, until the rubble of the Berlin Wall fell down. Now he is a kind of Thatcherite, where he verges between the Northern Unionists and the PDs. So it is curious to ask him for a character assessment of me." All texts tell you as much about the author as the subject. As a devotee of the critical technique called "close reading", I believe that the above text tells us a lot about Michael Noonan's character, how he perceives political change, and what kind of taoiseach he might make. The first thing to note is that it was weak of him to let the political correspondents provoke him into replying to me at all. Noonan should know that a good politician privately learns from criticism, adjusts his behaviour, but never takes public notice of his critics. The less need he has to be liked, the stronger his political persona. (At least Haughey had the sense to ignore his critics.) Noonan is too needy. Then there is the petty tone. He starts off by saying that "Harris was a great friend of John Bruton", as if friendship were a weakness. And the word "great" signals a suppressed envy; that Noonan neediness again. Naturally he couldn't resist a cheap crack about the Twink Ard Fheis an incident which illustrated Fine Gael's proclivity for allowing itself to be panicked by a media mob into making a mountain out of a molehill. After that he calls me a "Thatcherite" (which I am not, since I believe that the state should be stuck into things like education, health and transport), a cliché which has as much political content as calling somebody a blueshirt. As a final flourish he accuses me of "verging between Northern Unionists and the PDs". Translated, this means I worked with David Trimble in selling the Belfast Agreement, and that I admire Mary Harney. Guilty on both counts. I did it for Ireland. But the real revelation is Noonan's negative attitude to the need for constant change in political life. He sneers that I rejected republicanism and later rejected socialism. Well, I wasn't alone, merely ahead. Most Irish people changed their mind about a united Ireland between 1966 and 1998, otherwise the Belfast Agreement couldn't have been born. And most Eastern Europeans changed their mind about communism between 1960 and 1990 a good thing too. Clearly Noonan has no time for Socrates's notion that the unexamined life is not worth living. Because of course the only constant in life, and particularly in political life, is change. Heraclitus says you can't step in the same stream twice. In politics, resisting change destroys a party, accepting change causes it to merely mark time, but anticipating change gives it a grip which is impossible to break. Sinn Féin is proof of that proposition. The more it slaughters its sacred cows, the more it gains public support. However, change which does not hurt is nothing but opportunism. Gerry Adams can only show he is sincere about unionist consent to a united Ireland by standing down the IRA. But if he does we will sooner or later see a structural shift in unionist sentiment. In my own case, changing my colours does not mean changing my character. There is a big difference between changing your mind about mores (whether you fancy Fine Gael or not) and changing your mind about morals (whether you fancy racism or not). Today I believe what I believed at 20: that fascism, in whatever form it presents itself, must be fought to the finish. The problem is all political projects, no matter how noble, are subject to corruption. Fascism can dress in fine liberal clothes and present itself as political correctness. Above all, context changes content. Communism was a noble ideal in 1917 and a tyranny by 1932. Irish republicanism appeared righteous in 1921, morally irresponsible in 1922, evil after Enniskillen in 1985, and might be righteous in 2005 again if Gerry Adams delivers on decommissioning. To my mind, a person who signs up for a party, and leaves it at that, is not a moral person. I believe that leading a decent political life is like sailing a small boat. To balance that boat I must continually shift my position. When the political right is too strong as it was in the Sixties I lean to the left. When the political left is too strong as it has been for the past 10 years I lean to the right. This means that I expect to lean left again at some stage. Which is why Noonan's sneers simply make no sense to me. Noonan is saying that he has problems with people who see their mistakes, correct them and make a fresh start. No wonder he had trouble with hepatitis C. 
