politics
{ Shane Ross 
    December 06 2014 11:27 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/independents-can-offer-stability-and-a-return-to-truly-democratic-principles-30805194.html }
What is the biggest curse in Irish politics? Corruption? Cowardice? Cronyism? No, they are the poisons that emerge from the toxic body. The worst feature of Ireland's political culture is so-called party loyalty. The party system is Ireland's democratic demon. It rewards loyalty without scruples. It punishes disloyalty without mercy. Party loyalty is embedded deep in the sick mindset of Ireland's political insiders. It is the norm. Political parties force their TDs to swear a party pledge. If they break it, their careers lie in ruins. If they are party zealots, promotion is guaranteed. Promotion means money, perks and status. Principles mean relative poverty or being cast into the outer political darkness. Or both. Ask Roisin Shortall, the former Minister of State for Primary Care. So-called 'disloyalty' to her party - for resigning on a point of principle - cost the TD her job as a junior minister. Ask Denis Naughten, the former Fine Gael TD for Roscommon-South Leitrim, whose refusal to commit political suicide by sacrificing himself on the altar of party loyalty saw him banished to the backbenches forever. Two fine parliamentarians were sent to rot in the Dail's doghouse. Today Shortall and Naughten have no future within the party structure. Thankfully, they are valuable Independents. Their sin of 'disloyalty' to the party was deemed unforgivable. Even Peadar Toibin, the Sinn Fein TD who defied the party whip on the abortion vote, was back in the fold within months. Not so among the mainstream political parties. Yet other sins are forgiven within days. If punishment for disloyalty to party is the norm, reward for party loyalty is rampant. The attempted stroke to put Fine Gael's John McNulty's into the Seanad was bad enough. Loyalty to the leader is equally important. The award of the post as European Commissioner, the most valuable gig in the government's gift to Fine Gael loyalist Phil Hogan, was pre-determined. Hogan was destined for the job from the day he ensured that Enda Kenny survived the internal putsch against him when opposition leader. Party loyalty has infected institutions way beyond Leinster House. It has contaminated the judiciary. Party loyalty has invaded the ranks of the gardai, where the top 200 appointments are political. Party loyalty determines the names of the party hacks who draw fat salaries through ministerial appointments to semi-state bodies. I constantly choke when reading the inevitable insertion of those dreaded words in Dail bills setting up yet another quango: "the board will be appointed by the minister" - parliamentary draftsmenspeak for institutionalising cronyism. As a consequence while our state agencies and judiciary are stuffed with blueshirts and trade unionist followers of the Labour Party, the Dail itself has deteriorated into a theatre for party eunuchs and third-rate sycophants. Promotion to ministerial ranks is rarely on merit. Backbenchers in hope of preferment bite their tongues and sell their souls to the party. Talented young men and women with ideals and imagination stifle their talents. Instead, they read out speeches expressing beliefs they do not hold, reading for the first time a line spewed out from their press offices. That is the best way to the top in party politics. On Day One in the Dail do all party TDs attend a political castration course? The three big parties all play the same game. They are diseased. They have all bought into it. Party loyalty is the common thread. Loyalty to the citizens is a secondary consideration. The national interest comes in a bad third. The Dail itself has been strangled by party loyalty. The parties control the chamber itself with sinister mechanisms that lock in the loyalists, just in case they were thinking of bolting. All parties enforce party loyalty with the party whip . And just in case any of them think of making that bolt for freedom, at the top of the parliamentary pyramid sits the nation's oligarchy, the four-person Economic Management Council (EMC) which dictates decisions to the Cabinet. The EMC contains the powerhouses from the two coalition parties. The Taoiseach, Tanaiste and our two finance ministers form the cabal. The Cabinet in turn ratifies the EMC's diktats. All measures are rubber-stamped by Government TDs after token debates and predestined votes. Ireland is run by politburo politicians, assisted by political parties which impose a democratic tyranny known as 'party loyalty' on their members. Political parties themselves are now little politburos. This week thousands will take to the streets of Dublin in protest against the insiders that hold sway over their lives. Citizens are demanding the return of their birthrights. They want to taste power, not hand it to parties who demand loyalty to the leader and the party before loyalty to the nation. Another political party, however fresh, is not the solution. There are alternative answers, new vehicles that will never fit into the current system. An elegant suggestion being explored by Independent TDs is a coherent alliance of Independent TDs and others to hand power back to the people. How could this be done? We will need a totally new model. Independent TDs could group together to make common cause on certain inviolable principles. They would only support a government - and then only on confidence votes - if these principles were conceded. A primary principle would be the abolition of the party whip. TDs in any new alliance would be free to vote as they wish on all measures - except motions of confidence. They would only support a government if core principles were conceded. And implemented. Contrary to anti-Independent propaganda being spewed out presently, there would be no lack of stability. Independents would be a coherent group, united on core principles. A unique democratic vehicle would be created. Governments would not fall. We would not have an Italian situation. Provided radical reforms were conceded to the Independents, provided Irish politics was changed forever, the Government would be guaranteed survival. Critics dismiss such heretical thoughts, insisting that legislation could be defeated regularly. Indeed it could. What would be more democratic? Independent TDs would be able to speak their minds in the Dail, write their own speeches reflecting their own views and vote with their consciences. From time to time, legislation would be returned for improvement or repeal. What could be more democratic than the peoples' TDs sending legislation back to the drawing board? Power would be returned to an unrecognisably reformed, but responsible, Dail. Instant reforms would include the abolition of the politburo, the Economic Management Council. The law would be changed to remove the power of political appointment from all ministers. The parties have abused patronage for long enough. On Wednesday the people will be marching against Irish politics itself. Water has been sidelined in a peaceful revolt against the abuse of power by political parties. At the heart of the disease is the obsession with party loyalty. Ireland needs a new politics, new groups free from the curse of parties or party loyalty. Shane Ross is the Independent TD for Dublin South Sunday Independent 
