politics
{ Carol Hunt 
    March 21 2015 11:05 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/carol-hunt/the-reason-why-im-thinking-of-running-for-ross-31085366.html }
Sometimes it can be quite comforting to hold two contradictory opinions at the same time. In psychological language that's known as 'cognitive dissonance', but I prefer the simpler Orwellian political term, which is 'doublethink'.  For many years now, I've been guilty of just that. My Twitter handle outs me quite clearly as a feminist, which does not, of course, mean that I hate men, but that I believe in equality between the sexes. Feminists brought women the vote and the right to own our own homes. What woman doesn't support that? I like to think that if I had been alive in the early 20th century, I would have been campaigning for women's suffrage. Recently, I've been very vocal about my support of gender quotas in politics and elsewhere. And over the years, I've written many articles and spoken at events where I've articulated the need for more women to get involved in Irish politics. If women had made up at least 85pc of our political representatives since the founding of the State, the men would be up in arms, and rightly so, is what I argue. Ireland has one of the worst records of women in politics, not just in the West, but worldwide. We're behind such bastions of feminism as Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates when it comes to female parliamentarians. But whose fault is that? Women just don't want to get into politics, is what we're told. It's not like anyone is stopping them, is it? Sure, aren't they the clever ones, not getting involved with all the blustering and boys' club cronyism that is central to how politics is done in Ireland? Aren't they better off ignoring the nonsense and concentrating on their own business? No, we're not. And neither is society as a whole. Research shows that the more women are involved in a country's decision-making, the more successful, peaceful and profitable that country will be. But, whatever about juggling childcare, homes and businesses successfully, most women shy away from the idea of getting involved in politics. Or if they do, it's in the back room, as secretaries or fundraisers or supporters of others - usually men. Which is where I come to my doublethink. I'm always first up to list all the reasons why women should put themselves forward for election by their peers - why we have a duty to our families and society to ensure that Ireland becomes a fairer, more just society. In particular, I tell my daughter that there is no reason why she cannot have a career in politics. I went to my first political meeting at the age of 14, I have always been interested in politics and enjoy writing about it. I studied political philosophy. And yet, despite all my rhetoric, I have never admitted to a desire to run for office. Of any type. Why not? Because, despite the fact that I rationally believe that women can be just as successful as men in political life, there's a niggling voice in the back of my head saying, "Don't be ridiculous Carol, elected to political office? Now you really are getting carried away with yourself" (as my granny would have said). I think many Irish women hear that voice. It's the voice that says, while a man can be admiringly called "ambitious", a woman exhibiting the same characteristics is described as "pushy" - or, as Lucinda Creighton noted, "as nasty, power-mad viragos". Well, precisely. Where a man is described as "forthright", a woman is dismissed as "nagging". Unfair but true. Apparently, "when male executives speak up, they receive 10pc higher competence ratings; when female executives do the same, their ratings from their peers are 14pc lower. Similarly, when male employees offer ideas, they receive higher performance evaluations; when women offer the same ideas, managers' perceptions of their performance remain unchanged". Creighton is on record as saying that she "has personally come to the conclusion that women are simply not regarded seriously as politicians". She has a point. Creighton really should be on the same trajectory as her ex-colleague, Leo Varadkar in Fine Gael. But the refusal of her party to allow her vote with her conscience on the Protection of Life during Pregnancy Act, led to her expulsion. I have great admiration for Deputy Creighton, but her politics are not mine. Socially or economically. Which is why I was surprised to receive a message from a rival Sunday newspaper this week asking if it was true that I had joined up to her Renua party. No, I hadn't, was the short, honest answer. Not now. Not ever. Though I wish her the best, I think Creighton's natural home is Fine Geal and they were eejits to get rid of her. Then, my editor asked me to write about my thoughts on being asked to run for office. My what? Dear God, news gets around quickly in this town. And so, I had to come clean. Especially when the photo editor called and told me to find a rosette for a picture. "Morto," I said to the kids. "Get used to it," they answered, shaking their heads at my recklessness. So here's the story: over the past few years, every time I have shrugged off the idea that I would choose to enter politics, I have felt increasingly guilty. I spend a lot of time trying to persuade other women to do something that I wouldn't dare. Why? Because, honestly, the thought of running for election scares me rigid. It's easier to sit on the sidelines commenting than entering the fray yourself. "Splinters," said a friend. "That's what you're going to end up with if you stay on the fence much longer - it's time to put your money where your mouth is." Which is why, recently, when a friend of mine said that Shane Ross was looking for women to join his new alliance of Independents, I said that I just might be interested. I admire Shane's honesty, hard work and ethics, and I also like some of the others who have joined his Independent Alliance, such as John Halligan and Finian McGrath. Before I knew it, I was meeting Shane in Buswells, discussing ideas and priorities. He said he wants a good gender balance and has some excellent female councillors already interested in running. I decided to think about it. My kids were aghast. "Why would you want to go for a job where everyone will hate you?" asked the eldest. Why indeed? "Please don't let me be the kid whose mom is up everywhere on posters," begged the other. And that's not the only problem. The excellent Women For Election website cites the "five Cs" as reasons which prevent women from entering politics. First of all, there's the "confidence" issue: yes, I can identify with that. I still get the shakes sometimes when I appear on radio or TV. (My heart went out to Terence Flanagan when he got brain freeze recently, there but for the grace of God and all that). There's always that little voice in my head still saying "Who do you think you are?" and wondering when I'm going to be found out. There's a huge opportunity to make a complete eejit of yourself as a politician, not just in Ireland but everywhere. Egos need to be elastic. I'd need to toughen up. Second, there's the "cash" problem. You need money to run for election. And as part of the negative equity generation, whose household income has seen a 50pc decrease since 2008, I don't have any. Every penny I earn goes to food and bills. I'd have to fundraise. Maybe no-one will contribute. Next "C"? Candidate selection procedures - men are usually preferred, but as an Independent, that isn't an issue. But it means I have no party network. No machine behind me. Then there's "culture" - politicians are traditionally male - with wives at home picking up all the slack for them. Well, isn't that what we're trying to change? And finally "childcare". I gave up a PhD to work from home so I could be here for my kids - but from next year, the youngest will be in secondary school and I will have much more freedom. "What about the fact that you've admitted publicly that you're mad?" asks a friend. Ah yes, there is that. I have frequently written about mental health issues and my previous experience of them. And while I would hope that knowledge of an illness suffered by one in four of our citizens would be a plus, statistics show me that there is still significant stigma in this area. Being outspoken can have its drawbacks. But there's nothing I can do about that except be honest, is there? I haven't decided yet whether I will take the plunge and put myself forward or not - there are a lot of issues still to be considered. But, in just thinking seriously about the prospect, I have to admit a huge admiration for every woman in Irish history who has had the guts to put herself before the people. In the traditionally boys' world that is Irish politics, that isn't an easy task. Twitter @carolmhunt Sunday Independent 
