politics
{  
    November 03 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/birthday-tributes-to-a-national-icon-26245109.html }
Conor Cruise O'Brien is 85 today. Here, writers from the worlds of academia, politics and journalism salute a  remarkable man whose opinions have influenced and provoked a generation of Irish people AS A YOUNG lecturer in UCC during the Congo crisis in the autumn of 1961, I publicly and passionately defended the UN's position. Ireland's role in the episode found a personal focus in Conor Cruise O'Brien, who seemed to me then to epitomise our country's exciting new departure in foreign policy. In that connection, I subsequently devoured To Katanga and Back, which remains my favourite CCOB publication not only for its content but because it splendidly evinces the author's characteristic and perennial qualities of style, lucidity, wit and irony. From the mid-1970s when I first met Conor I differed with him in varying degrees on "the national question". Specifically, I argued publicly against the anti-1916 revisionist view of which he was the most eloquent and courageous exponent, if not indeed the "onlie begetter". I was reluctant at that time to accept his thesis that the Provisional IRA were the real heirs of 1916. I also believed that the effectiveness of his revisionist message was diminished by a supercilious, if not abrasive, attitude towards anyone who articulated an aspiration to Irish unity. Moreover, there was a perception of a certain hauteur in demeanour and tone of voice. Suffice it to say that over the years I became more and more uneasy about the views on 1916 which I had held so confidently in the mid-1970s and I gradually moved towards Conor's position. Even when I most disagreed with him, I recognised his great public service in masterfully exposing the woolly and dangerous attitudes of the Southern nationalist mainstream towards Northern Ireland and the Provo terror campaign. Unlike the cuddly Garret FitzGerald, the other major academic/intellectual of that vintage in public life, Conor alienated people by making them feel uncomfortable about cherished but lazily-held assumptions on state, nation and history and culture. What annoyed people every bit as much as his political revisionism was his attack on cultural protectionism. When he was minister responsible for broadcasting in the 1973-77 coalition, his proposal that BBC1 should become our second television channel provoked outrage, not least from myself. For the poet Seán Ó Riordáin in his Irish Times column, "Crús" epitomised latter-day galloping Anglicisation. The Sean Bhean Bhocht, in her role as one-woman Irish chorus on current affairs at periodic intervals over the centuries, bestirred herself through a West Cork balladeer to comment sarcastically in 1974 on the arch-revisionist. "He told us we were wrong, says the Sean Bhean Bhocht/ We were stupid all along, says the Sean Bhean Bhocht/ We thought we were one race, foreign blood we had no trace/ But that's plainly not the case, says the Sean Bhean Bhocht. But now we'll be all right, says the Sean Bhean Bhocht/ For the Cruiser he is bright, says the Sean Bhean Bhocht/ He will give us BBC, contraceptives with our tea/ From the Erse he'll set us free, says the Sean Bhean Bhocht." Unfair, of course, even grotesque, but it reflected a common perception of CCOB in the contemporary folklore. The rabid anti-intellectualism he aroused was expressed in the bilious sneer: "brilliant but useless like a lighthouse on the Bog of Allen". Yet there is a back-handed compliment in the gibe. Likewise, the nickname of "The Cruiser" is by no means a derogatory one. It is an Irish device to make the exotic familiar and homely. As "The Cruiser", Conor becomes "one of our own". Occasionally it carries an undertone of ill-will, but more commonly it connotes affection, even pride. With the mellowing effect of time, it suggests an appreciation of Ireland's foremost intellectual as a national asset. And there is no doubting his own sense of Irishness: "I am proud quite irrationally proud of being Irish, even to an extravagant degree." As I wrote in a review of his autobiography, he may be "Ireland's leading citizen of the world, but there always has been the pull of what one might call Howth and home". In recent years, his position on Northern-related developments has been pessimistic and negative. He repeatedly forecast that the talks process leading up to the Belfast Agreement would result in ignominious failure and for years now he has been predicting the imminent demise of David Trimble. His membership of the UK Unionist Party was a comic misadventure. And his essay on possible unionist acceptance of a united Ireland in the not-so-distant future smacked of the bizarre. As the reader may have gathered, I have never been in the legion of Conor's rhapsodic admirers: by the same token, I was never to be numbered in the ranks of his begrudging and ill-informed critics. On this occasion I am glad to salute him for his courageous role in Irish political discourse. His remarkable career in diplomacy and politics, his erudition, his prodigious literary achievement, and his irreverence. He is at once a stoic and a happy warrior. He has been very good for Ireland. We can amend Goldsmith's well-known lines on Edmund Burke and apply the couplet to Conor Cruise O'Brien. "Born for the universe he focused his mind/ And to country gave up what was meant for mankind". Happy Birthday, Conor. Go maire tú an céad. John A Murphy John A Murphy is Emeritus Professor of Irish History at UCC. CONOR Cruise O'Brien is one of a very small number of Irish people who steps outside the stereotypes of the community from which he comes, and can look at his own country and at the world's problems with a truly analytical eye. He is a controversialist who forces even his opponents to stop and think. He, almost single- handedly, revised the assumptions of Irish nationalism and forced an entire generation to think again about the easy assumptions which fuelled so much of the troubles for the last four generations. Conor Cruise O'Brien has made us look at the reality of unionism on the island of Ireland and recognise that unionists are a distinct community with the same rights as the rest of us. Whereas others can genuflect uneasily before such a statement but move on to the next subject without drawing the logical conclusion, O'Brien draws that conclusion. He has challenged unionist assumptions too, asking them to examine whether they might not be better off, at the end of the day, in all-Ireland accommodation than in a continued precarious state of belonging with Britain. Conor Cruise O'Brien has written movingly about his own life, about his parents, and about his background in a family divided between the Irish parliamentary, the Sinn Fein, and the radical iconoclast traditions of early 20th century Ireland. @@STYL cf,milb He continues to combine a brilliant intellectual output with an almost limitless capacity to enjoy life in all its idiosyncrasies. John Bruton John Bruton is a Fine Gael deputy and former Taoiseach. CONOR Cruise O'Brien has always been a warrior for the working day. So he won't mind if by way of a birthday tribute, I put the boot into one of his creepier critics. I am speaking about the creepy Christopher Hitchens, darling of the London Review of Books and Vanity Fair, who is one of the downsides of supporting America's war on Iraq. Like many a minor brave hoping to make his name by breaking his lance on an old chieftain, Hitchens has twice attacked O'Brien with a rubber spear on issues about which Hitchens knows nothing, namely Northern Ireland and European politics. Hitchens was especially stupid in his criticisms of O'Brien's Eve of the Millennium, (1994) which Hitchens (then a hard leftie) dismissed as the demented ravings of a former radical. In fact, the book was prophetic: it correctly predicted what came to pass: that immigration would become a major political issue and that old liberal lines would buckle under the strain. The Hitchens who criticised O'Brien was a socialist of sorts. But Hitchens has not been any kind of socialist since the Afghan war started. Breaking the basic law which says you can change your politics provided you don't benefit by it, Hitchens was a leftie as long as being a leftie was lucrative. As soon as the Afghan war started, however, he swiftly ingratiated himself with his adopted country, America, by writing a disgracefully bellicose piece called Damn the Doves which made him the darling of the New Yorker war party. At the same time, he tried to hang on to his leftie constituency by making himself out as some kind of Orwell. But, of course, if Hitchens were really an Orwell or even an O'Brien he would contrive not to be continually on the winning side, first in Britain where he was fashionably leftie, and now in America where he is fashionably bellicose. Because the mark of a real public intellectual, like Conor Cruise O'Brien, is that he should be without honour in his own, or indeed in any other country, and that any honours accruing to him have to wait for history. Eoghan Harris Eoghan Harris is a journalist and film-maker. 'WHO is Conor O'Brien?" the British prime minister Harold Macmillan querulously asked in the autumn of 1961 when the Katanga imbroglio had made that name suddenly famous. Conor's career has or his careers have been so bewilderingly various, in diplomacy, politics, journalism, scholarship, as to make a simple answer impossible. When I first met him, over lunch at the lamented Royal Hibernian Hotel in 1976, he was a cabinet minister, though both more convivial and more intelligent than any such I'd known before. The lunch was memorable not least for the fact that Mr Charles J Haughey was sitting nearby: the atmosphere between the tables helped my early education in Irish politics. Maybe he hasn't always been right in everything he has done in the North: even his friends had to take a deep breath when Dr O'Brien shared a platform with Dr Paisley. But for one thing, his sheer courage physical as well as moral has been truly remarkable. And in any case, and whatever with the company he has kept, I am not sure that he has been so wrong. From 30 years ago, he saw several things which eluded most of his compatriots. His detestation of republican violence was sincere, and not crocodile-tearful as too often in Dublin. He recognised that, whatever the historic sufferings of Catholic Ireland, the Ulster Protestants had democratic rights, too. And he saw that the attitude of Official Ireland towards Ulster was profoundly hypocritical and contradictory, as it still is. All that, and his books. After rereading Parnell and His Party, To Katanga and Back, States of Ireland, and others besides in that splendid catalogue, the best way I can express my birthday greetings is to borrow a line from Byron, and say that Gerry Adams, Tim Pat Coogan and Charles Haughey will be remembered when Conor Cruise O'Brien is forgotten, but not until then. Geoffrey Wheatcroft Geoffrey Wheatcroft is a journalist and broadcaster. IT IS not a secret, I think, that Conor Cruise O'Brien and I have sometimes been bitterly in conflict. Certainly I have uttered sharp words which I now regret, and for which I offer him my apologies. The conflicts, however, were real, about, for example Northern Ireland, about Israel and Zionism, or the confrontation between Chief Buthelezi and the African National Council. Nevertheless, I find, and I am pleased about it, that with a whole heart I can offer him good wishes and congratulations on reaching such a fine age. My memory of him goes back to the late 1930s, to the Glencree cottage of the poet Joseph Campbell, when he was already a brilliant student in TCD and I was just going to the same secondary school where he had been. And then, a little later, when he had already joined the Department of External Affairs, his writings as Donat O'Donnell, though I cannot recall whether I first saw them in The Bell or Envoy. What then are the things I most admire in a long, productive and sometimes provocative public life? He fought what was to me a wholly admirable campaign against the attempted subversion of European intellectual life by the CIA at the height of the Cold War. In pursuit of justice and decency (and, alas, of a lost cause) he showed extraordinary personal courage and political subtlety in the Belgian Congo. As a founding member of the Irish Anti-Apartheid Movement, I have always very much admired his strong and clear stand for the rights of black Africans and against racism in general. It is a popular viewpoint now. It was not always. When he came back to Ireland and Labour politics in the late 1960s, I applauded his views on Cuba, even when I could hear the votes trickling away. The core, however, of his life and writing since then has been 'The North'. There, as I said, we disagree. But, and it is an immense but, I have the most immense admiration for his destruction of nationalist myths about this island. I share his contempt for Sinn Fein/IRA. For me they are dishonest, murderous and stupid: dishonest because the pretended separate identity of Sinn Fein and the IRA is a lie; murderous because since Michael Davitt gave up terrorism for democratic politics there has been no excuse for killing people in pursuit of your political aims (and yes, since you ask, that includes 1916); and stupid because terrorism in the French Revolutionary sense has been impermissible for the last one 150 years. No one in my time has argued all this more consistently and cogently than Cruise O'Brien. Everyone who knows him affirms that he is very clever. As a man who has suffered severe blows from fate, he has shown that he is very brave, physically, morally and mentally. He is a wonderful companion, he writes brilliantly and beautifully and he is very, very funny. And he will state his beliefs and thoughts, persuasively and powerfully, even if he is in a minority of one. What more could you ask of any man? His monument is the word GUBU. Who else could have given it to us? So pungent, so pertinent and so funny. So please, Conor, go on. We need your flashing pen more than ever. Health and long life! Justin Keating Justin Keating is a former Labour government minister. CONOR Cruise O'Brien has been the premier public intellectual (he at one time professed a preference for the term 'publicist') of 20th-century Ireland, one whose creativity as a political writer was not subsidiary to the writing of fiction or poetry. Still on his 85th birthday an engage contributor to contemporary Irish politics, the intellectual tradition of which he is part stretches back to the Parnell split and the Dreyfus affair, those terrific schisms out of which the modern intellectual emerged in Ireland and France. Charles Péguy as well as Yeats stalks his pages. From the source derives his incisiveness as a controversialist, and something of his wit and asperity. If his opposition to the peace process has set him at odds with a majority of his countrymen and women, the fact is that we cannot look back on the journey which we have travelled as citizens of an Irish republic without taking account of Conor. He contributed much of the political vocabulary, from the analytic to the colloquial from searing revisionism to 'GUBU'. He is the cartographer of our present discontents. The controversy which continues to attach to his writing is a tacit recognition of just how significant a figure Cruise O'Brien is in the politics and self-understanding of the Irish state. His critique of immoderate nationalism is unceasingly disparaged by nationalist ideologues and republican apologists. As an intellectual, O'Brien has doggedly pursued his own course. A realist adherent of a system of nation states, his abiding preoccupation has been with the ideology of nationalism. For most of the intellectuals of his generation, nationalism was passe, @@STYL cf,milb something which fashionable conceptions of progress in various guises had made redundant. How wrong they have proved to be. Among more recent writers on nationalism, he stands apart in his refusal to limit the consideration of nationalism to its modern secular manifestation in the 18th and 19th centuries. In God Land: Reflections on Religion and Nationalism' @@STYL cf,milb (1988), he pointed out that nationalism "as a collective emotional force in our culture, makes its first appearance with explosive impact in the Hebrew Bible". Conor has already significantly influenced the Ireland of our time. That influence will prove more enduring, and I think more subtly diverse and less rigidly predictable in its political consequence, than his critics can bring themselves to allow. Frank Callanan Frank Callanan is a senior counsel and historian. WHEN I first went to meet the great man in Dublin, I tried out his name on the taxi driver from the airport, who replied warily: "There are two views on Conor Cruise O'Brien here I'm of the other view myself." Conor seems to have that effect on people. He had been brought in as my editor-in-chief by The Observer's then American owners in 1979. This could have made for a tricky relationship, but it worked out well enough because we got on together personally and respected each other's areas of expertise. He soon found an outlet for his exceptional writing talents in a weekly column that became widely admired and won awards, leaving me with the nuts and bolts of getting the paper out. He also had final authority over editorial policy. We fell out seriously only once, when he insisted on sacking Mary Holland as our Irish correspondent. (I reinstated her as soon as he left in 1981, as he knew I would). I was given to understand that the paper's policy on Ireland was too serious a subject for a mere Englishman to understand, so Conor and John Cole, an Ulsterman who was then my deputy, worked this out between them. I have to admit I often found ways to avoid doing things he wanted me to do with the paper, though he wasn't fooled by this he once said of me that I was "a former scrum-half with a gift for finding touch on either side of the field by using both feet at once". I learned to use Conor as a battering ram to persuade the management to give me more staff and editorial space. He had such massive authority they could hardly deny him. He was immensely popular with the paper's literary and political staff, especially those who shared his enjoyment of licensed premises. I once dared to ask him, late at night, about his legendary capacity. "Three times," he told me, "I've been told by doctors that if I don't stop drinking I'll die. It's funny really." "Why is it funny, Conor?" I asked. "Because all the doctors are dead." Conor, mercifully, is still with us and long may that continue. Happy birthday to one of the cleverest and nicest men I've ever known. Donald Trelford Donald Trelford was editor of The Observer from 1975-93. 
