online
{ By MailOnline Reporter   Published:  23:55, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7995725/10-things-didnt-know-Aldi.html }
Aldi is one of the UK's fastest growing and favourite supermarkets (as voted for by readers in the Good Housekeeping Food Awards 2019). With great value fresh produce and the legendary middle aisle, filled with amazing Specialbuys, there’s a lot to like at Aldi.  But even if you're a regular customer, you might be surprised to learn about the supermarket's ethical credentials, its Fairtrade partnerships, its approach to discounts and its very clever shop floor secrets.  Want to know more? Here are just 10 things you didn't know about Aldi...  1. A fair price for everyone Aldi believes that access to affordable fruit and vegetables is a right not a privilege.  And that's where the Super 6 offer comes in! This includes six fruits and vegetables at super low prices every week, ensuring ensuring Aldi customers can stay healthy for less.  But, what you may not know is that Aldi covers the cost of the discounts itself, so suppliers are able to benefit from the increased sales meaning they receive a fair price all year round   2. Meals for all  Working with the Neighbourly programme, Aldi has so far donated over 4 million meals to those in need. Aldi supports a wide range of local organisations needing healthy and nutritious food, like children’s clubs, homeless shelters and food banks.  And as official supermarket partner of Team GB, Aldi provides our British athletes with vouchers to spend on fresh and healthy food in store, helping to fuel their journeys to the Olympic Games.   3. Aldi helps support young people with cancer Since 2017, Aldi has partnered with Teenage Cancer Trust and pledged to raise £5 million over the next five years, to support their vital work.  The £4 million mark was reached in 2019 and Aldi are on course to hit the £5 million target nearly two years ahead of schedule. This is enough to support the funding of 30 nurses and 15 Youth Support Coordinators for for two years. The charity partnership is going from strength to strength and is ensuring no young person has to face cancer alone.  If you want to help Aldi reach their target, look out for fundraising materials in store.  4. There's a secret to those super fast checkouts... We've all been there.  Standing in line at the supermarket checkout can seem endless. But regular customers at Aldi will have noticed that they spend a lot less time at the tills. And there's a very simple, but brilliant, reason for this. Instead of just one bar code on each item, the majority of products sold in Aldi have multiple bar codes printed around the packaging, making the swiping a much quicker process.  Genius!  5. Extra pennies for parents Did you know that Aldi sells more own-brand nappies than any other supermarket?   This is because the nappies in its Mamia range are not only specially designed to make every stage of a baby’s growth easier to manage, they're incredible value too, so new parents don't need to sacrifice on quality to get affordable nappies. And let's face it, they're going to get through a lot! Mamia nappies are dermatologically tested, hypoallergenic and accredited by the Skin Health Alliance. The Ultra Dry Air System™ technology provides fast absorption, distributes the liquid evenly and helps prevent sagging; ensuring your little ones are dry and comfortable for longer.   But don't just take our word for it. Mamia was voted Best Family Brand in 2019 by Loved by Parents, so you know you're onto a good thing...  6. Cruelty free credentials You'll be pleased to know that all of Aldi's own brand beauty and household cleaning products are not tested on animals, meaning you can shop in confidence and without checking every label. In fact, Aldi is one of only four UK supermarkets to gain the Leaping Bunny certification for its cruelty free products, so is leading the way once again. 7. Everything's coming up roses In 2014, working with supplier Herburg Roses, Aldi gained Fairtrade certification and has been sourcing Fairtrade roses ever since. This means Aldi pays an additional 10 per cent on top of the suppliers cost price. This is paid as a Fairtrade Premium to benefit the workers and their families.  The Fairtrade Premium funds social initiatives that benefit the whole community like access to healthcare and subsidising food, so workers are able to buy produce at affordable prices, regardless of seasonal changes.  Plus, Aldi has pledged to invest £200,000 over four years in a programme to empower the women who grow their Fairtrade Roses, enabling them to learn skills like leadership and project management.  Aldi is one of the largest retailers of Fairtrade roses in the UK and the only British retailer to source Fairtrade Flowers from Ethiopia.  So next time you want to show someone you care, buy your roses at Aldi and you'll be spreading the love to Ethiopia too!  8. Kevin the Carrot is a cultural icon You'll recognise Kevin the Carrot as the adorable little star of Aldi's Christmas advertising campaigns. And he's become so popular that the soft toy Kevins available in store and online each year, always sell out across the UK. But even more more impressive is that in the run up to Christmas 2018, Kevin the Carrot was googled more times than Father Christmas! 9. Halloumi heaven  Everyone loves halloumi. But British Aldi customers love it more than anyone else, as Aldi UK sells more halloumi than anyone else in the world.  On average almost 20,000 packs of halloumi are sold each day, across Aldi's 874 UK stores. That's a lot of cheese!  10. Best of British  Aldi has always championed the best of British and has a network of suppliers across the UK providing award-winning produce. In fact, Aldi's core range of fresh meat, eggs, milk, butter and cream is 100 per cent British, so you'll always know exactly where your everyday groceries have come from. It's also one of the only supermarkets to sell fresh British lamb all year round and sold more MSC-certified sustainable fish last year than any other supermarket.    If you like what you've read you might like Aldi! Head to your local Aldi store or aldi.co.uk to find more things you might like... 
