{ By Becky Freeth   Published:  23:55, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7961093/From-puppyhood-loved-family-dog-heres-care-pet-age.html }
As we watch them go from cute and curious puppy to faithful companion in later life, our dogs delight us with something unique at every age. But as they change and develop, it’s important that we give back just as much as we get from our four-legged friends by finding the best ways to ensure their needs are met at every stage. We know it is all about play-time, walks, love and attention throughout their lives to always meet their needs, but most importantly making sure they’re naturally nourished to support a healthy journey from young pup to mature dog. Getting it right in those early stages, will help set pups up for a very happy and healthy life. ‘That new puppy stage is undoubtedly one of the most exciting times in your dogs’ life, where everything and everyone is new,’ says clinical animal behaviourist Lauren Watts, of Lead With Lauren.  It is a good idea to let them meet as many dogs as possible in the first few weeks after their vaccinations so they can learn and practice skills like saying hello by sniffing bottoms and also recognising a dog in a bad mood who is best left alone.  The same principle applies to meeting people. The more humans they meet at this key developmental stage, the better they interact with them as they grow.  Help them burn off their youthful energy and make sure they don't become bored by beginning training as soon as they have had their vaccinations. They learn very fast at such a young age and it will also ensure they make a smooth transition into being a central member of your household. ‘Adjusting to the family and their new world is therefore a key consideration for any owner, where socialising your pet with other dogs and humans is important, but it’s also a sensitive period for choosing what they eat.’ Diet plays a huge role right from the start of a dog’s life. At the puppy stage, new dogs should have special food designed to ensure the best start, like Butcher’s Puppy Perfect, which is a grain-free puppy range that has been specifically designed to support the rapid changes in their bodies, build and strength in those crucial first 16 weeks. Aside from being mouth-wateringly tasty, in juicy beef, chicken and turkey varieties, the recipes contain all of the vitamins, minerals and high-quality proteins they need to match all the energy that suddenly comes bounding into your home. And, at a time when exploring is top of their priorities, Puppy Perfect also contains salmon oil that supports a healthy immune system with those all-important Omega-3 fatty acids and prebiotics that promote healthy gut bacteria to fight off the threat of illness from their brand-new environments. Lauren says: ‘At such a young age, puppies often learn to explore their environments with their mouths, which is their way of communicating what they want from their world and learning how it works. ‘New owners might experience “puppy biting” (where you need to beware of those needle-sharp teeth) so always check they are getting enough sleep, exercise, interaction, training and play, where we need to teach them to chew on toys rather than us…’ Once that precious puppy stage passes, between six and 18 months, dogs who once relied on us for everything suddenly become more independent into adolescence. While a good rule of thumb during puppyhood is to limit walks to five minutes for every month of their life (so 15 minutes for a three month old, 20 minutes for a four month old and so on) to help prevent arthritis later in life, adolescence is a great time to start - literally- stretching their legs!  Every breed, and indeed every dog, needs different amount of exercise so been led by your canine friend as to the length and frequency of walks, and if in doubt, check with your vet.  However always make sure to keep your dog mentally stimulated, especially if you leave them alone. Toys and games are a good way to do this - there are even electronically control ones available for if you are out of the house.  While adolescence is an exciting time to watch your dog develop their own unique personality and tastes, it can also be a time when they develop subtle food intolerances that we need to look out for. The Butcher’s range mirrors those unique qualities to ensure there’s something that’s right for every type of dog. Like Butcher’s Simply Gentle, which is suited to a more sensitive stomach because it’s high in fibre with wholegrains that are easier to digest. Alternatively, there are Grain-Free alternatives that are naturally gluten free with no grains or bulkers. Not only will a well-suited diet help them flourish, but the natural ingredients in every Butcher’s recipe ensures it’s food they would choose themselves. Traditional choices like the lip-smacking Meaty Recipes, in gravy and jelly, use only the best quality meats sourced from trusted British and Irish farms and are packed with vitamin-rich vegetables, with no artificial colours, flavours or preservatives. And since it’s wet food, it’s much more naturally hydrating and easier to digest for dogs because it’s closer to what their ancestors might have eaten in the wild. ‘A good diet will help them grow,’ Lauren advises. ‘But a natural one will make sure you’re not boosting their energy levels unnecessarily. ‘Into adulthood, not only are dogs bigger than before, but they are stronger with more energy, so suddenly they may require more physical exercise, where you might start taking them off the lead. ‘However, in the home, the key to dealing with growing dogs is to make sure they have enough mental stimulation as well as physical, which means trick training, toy play, scent work and enrichment with food.’ By the time your dog reaches a mature age, it’s hard to remember a time when they weren’t a core member of the family: keeping you company and being there to create great memories during holidays, walks and play-time together. That’s why it might be challenging when you notice certain changes in your friend, with less of the boisterousness and character they displayed in their youth. Lauren explains: ‘Dogs are classified as senior around 7-9 years of age, depending on their breed. Between these ages, dogs can start to become more uncomfortable, as they may start to suffer with stiff joints. ‘The key signs might be changes in energy levels, enthusiasm for walks and any grumpiness around being handled, as it could be a sign of pain or discomfort.’ Behaviourist Lauren suggests changing their exercise patterns to ease the effect on joints, but certain foods can also help to counteract the early effects of aging. She says: ‘For older dogs, it might mean that walks have to be shorter and more frequent but be sure to adjust their portion sizes or diet accordingly, so they don’t put on weight and increase the stress on joints.’ Butcher’s lower-calorie Lean & Tasty range can help with a little extra weight around the middle, as well as maintaining a healthy weight, because not only is it a lighter meal option, that has 20 per cent less fat, it contains L-Carnitine that helps turn fat into energy for lean muscle mass. There’s also the chance to switch to Butcher’s nutrient-rich Joints & Coat recipe, the newest of the range, which is infused with salmon oil, glucosamine and chondroitin to naturally ease joint pain and slow down the degenerative process associated with joint health. With added chicory to aid digestion, it also contains omega-3 and omega-6 to maintain a shiny, healthy coat to make sure your dog looks as young as they feel, right into their senior years! Butcher’s is committed to donating ONE MILLION MEALS to Britain’s most deserving dogs with their #nourisheverydog campaign. But they can’t do it without you. So go online now and tweet #nourisheverydog on Twitter, Facebook or Instagram- every hashtag donates a much-needed meal.   
