{ By Alice Murphy For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:41, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8039647/McDonalds-fan-creates-DIY-Chicken-Big-Mac-ordering-two-Mayo-Chicken-burgers-special-sauce.html }
A McDonald's customer has discovered an ingenious method of making the limited edition 'Chicken Big Mac' burger yourself, two years after it was discontinued in Australia. The man, who posted the trick on Reddit under the name Craig, ordered two Mayo Chicken burgers with cheese and a large tub of special Big Mac sauce from the counter. After stacking the burgers on top of one another in the double style of the Big Mac, he spread generous lashings of sauce on each and photographed his handiwork. Craig's bespoke creation has been christened the 'Chicken Mac' and hailed as 'genius' by Macca's lovers. A McDonald's kitchen manager from Canada replied to the post, recommending fans to order a Big Mac with no meat and two plain chicken patties to avoid the hassle of spreading sauce across a pre-made burger. 'Order a Big Mac, no meat, and request an 'Ask me' from the cashier,' he said. 'Then order two McChicken sandwiches and tell the cashier to sub the McChicken patty onto the Big Mac, no meat.' A customer suggested ordering a McChicken sandwich, adding an extra chicken patty and asking staff to garnish like a Big Mac. The Chicken Big Mac was first seen on McDonald's menus in Australia in 2017. The burger, which swapped the two beef patties of a classic Big Mac for slabs of crispy chicken, with layers of lettuce, onions, pickles, cheese and special sauce, was only sold for a limited time. McDonald's Australia CMO Jenni Dill said the burger was a 'mix up' between the iconic Big Mac and McChicken sandwich and had been created to give customers a 'new and exciting product to try'. Due to persistent customer demand, the Chicken Big Mac relaunched in Australia for a brief period in January 2018. Eight chicken burgers - including the BBQ Chicken, Spicy Chicken Clubhouse and the much loved McChicken sandwich - are currently available at Australian Macca's, but the Chicken Big Mac has yet to return. 
