{ By Valerie Edwards For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:34, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8042433/Amazon-not-products-China-Prime-Day-amid-coronavirus-outbreak.html }
Amazon is reportedly scrambling to secure inventory that has already been shipped from China to the US amid concerns the company may not have enough products to see them through Prime Day in July as the coronavirus continues to spread.  The online retail giant is said to be communicating with third-party sellers to determine whether the coronavirus will interrupt their supply chains, according to a report in The New York Times. Since the coronavirus outbreak several companies have shut down their stores in China, including Apple and Burberry.  Just last week, Apple warned that a global iPhone shortage could occur due to the coronavirus after it was forced to close 42 of its Chinese factories.  According to the Times, Amazon is concerned about similar shortages.  'Out of an abundance of caution, we are working with suppliers to secure additional inventory to ensure we maintain our selection for customers,' an Amazon spokeswoman told the Times.  'We are monitoring developments related to the coronavirus and taking appropriate steps as needed,' she added.  Amazon, which is the world's largest online retailer, tends to stock fewer goods in warehouses than other retailers do. They rely on what is called a 'lean inventory' business model. As a safeguard, Amazon has ordered six to eight weeks worth of some Chinese-made products compared to its usual two-to-three week inventory.  The deadly coronavirus continues to spread globally. More than 80,000 people have been affected so far and more than 2,700 have died from the virus.  President Donald Trump recently tried to calm public fears and panicked markets amid concerns of a massive coronavirus outbreak when he said the situation 'is very well under control' in the United States and folks who had it were recovering.  'We've had very few people with it,' he said a press conference in Delhi. 'The people are getting better - they're all getting better.' 'There's a very good chance you're not going to die,' he said of those infected. There are 53 cases of the virus in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control.  Trump also assured business leaders that the US was in 'very good shape' in regards to the coronavirus. 'We think we're in very good shape in the United States,' Trump said at a business roundtable in Delhi as he began wrapping up a two-day state visit to India. Trump, speaking to American and Indian business leaders, joked that their investments in the US have made them a lot of money 'except for yesterday,' noting the stock market drop. The Dow plunged 1,000 points on Monday, posting its worst day in two years, amid fears of a spike in cases of the coronavirus.  'I think it's going to be under control,' the president said of the outbreak and lamented the market drop as being out of his or anyone else's control.    
