{ By Press Association   Published:  22:21, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/pa/article-8039779/Leaning-Tower-Dallas-resists-second-demolition-attempt.html }
The “Leaning Tower of Dallas” – a social media sensation born when a part of a building survived implosion – has endured hundreds of blows from a wrecking ball. Dozens of people gathered north east of the Texas city’s central area to watch as a crane was used to batter the former Affiliated Computer Services building. The developer now says the demolition may take days. Demolition is progressing at an agonizing pace. I’M IN AGONY! https://t.co/iJhL8GCLUX The 11-storey building found a second life online after surviving a first demolition attempt. It inspired jokes and comparisons to Italy’s Leaning Tower of Pisa when an implosion on February 16 failed to bring down its core. The company that engineered the blast said some explosives did not go off. In the following week, people flocked to the site to post photos of themselves pretending to prop up the lopsided tower. The remainder of the building proved resilient on Monday. “They’re taking the wrecking ball and hitting the side of it over and over again, and it’s still just ineffective,” said Shawn Graybill, a 24-year-old who lives nearby and came out in his pyjamas to watch the demolition. “It’s not knocking the tower down.” Today we say goodbye to a Dallas landmark. The #leaningtowerofdallas is something we will only be able to tell stories about to our kids and their kids. So long dear friend. @LeaningTower (Photos from Twitter) @ClariceFox4 @BrandonToddFOX4 @FOX4 @visit_dallas pic.twitter.com/qIjNmuanWI Lloyd Nabors, whose company is handling the demolition, previously said the tower was leaning in the direction it was intended to fall, and there are no safety concerns. The building is being demolished to make way for a 2.5 billion dollar mixed-use project A Friday statement from De La Vega Development suggested the demolition would be done by noon, but the the core of the tower, including the lift shafts, was still standing in the late afternoon, and a spokeswoman said the process is expected to take up to four days. The wrecking crew is using a 5,600lb ball and following “standard procedure” in starting at the top of the structure and working down, said Missy Wyszynski. As demolition work took place, an online petition to “save this landmark from destruction” continued to draw signatures. Mr Graybill said he has not signed but plans to if the tower does not tumble soon. As the effort to topple the structure stretched into the late afternoon, people began to take another genre of photo — pretending to push the tower over rather than prop it up. 
