{ By Emily Knott For Mailonline   Published:  21:59, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8037589/Five-beauty-products-skyrocketing-popularity-Amazon.html }
Looking for a beauty product to remove unwanted facial hair or an affordable mascara that won't run? Aside from smart home appliances and tech gadgets, online retailer Amazon is brimming with hardworking beauty buys that are reviewer backed, having received fantastic ratings and rave reviews - so you can trust that they're going to live up to expectations. Ahead we've selected five movers and shakers in beauty on Amazon that have risen through ranks over the past 24 hours. And if you're looking for a bargain, you'll be thrilled to hear they're all under a tenner. Currently the bestseller in beauty, this at-home facial shaver will get rid of unwanted hair and prep skin for easy makeup application. The angled blades are small and not too sharp (so they won't nick you) and their size makes it easy to touch up in-between your eyebrows and remove peach fuzz from your upper lip and chin. Each pack comes with a set of six facial shavers with a single stainless steel blade in an array of colours. Recommended by beauty editors, bloggers and celebrities alike, these angled shavers are the closet tool you'll find to the sharp blades used in professional dermaplaning treatments – an exfoliation treatment that removes peach fuzz and dead skin using a scalpel. Buy now on Amazon This budget friendly DIY kit will give you fuller-looking eyebrows for up to four weeks in just a few minutes. The new and improved at-home eyebrow dye kit has racked up over 2,000 impressive reviews with shoppers praising the kit for its ease of use and value for money. It's fool-proof to apply; simply mix the dye cream and activating solution together in the dish provided, then brush the pigment through your brows with the included spoolie. Once the dye is applied, it takes just a few minutes to develop, before you remove it to reveal freshly darkened eyebrows. Buy now on Amazon A favourite among dermatologists and skin experts, this lightweight moisturising facial lotion from CeraVe boasts a broad spectrum SPF 25 providing protection against UVA and UVB rays and a unique combination of skin-loving ingredients for all-day hydration. CeraVe has a unique blend of hyaluronic acid acting as a humectant, ceramides and cholesterol to repair lipids, dimethicone to retain water, and niacinamide which helps your body to begin to produce its own ceramides. It also has a pH of 5.5 (your skin has a pH between 4 and 5) so it isn't going to aggravate the skin. Buy now on Amazon For skin in a spot of bother. The L'Oréal Paris Pure Clay Charcoal Detox Clay Mask has been blended with charcoal (a microporous material) to help draw impurities out of the skin and clean out blocked pores. For best results, we recommend steaming before masking to soften the skin and open the pores. Steaming your skin also allows your skincare products (such as creams, serums and actives) to absorb better since skin cells are more permeable when they're damp. Simply fill a bowl with hot water and place your face over the steam with a towel over your head. Buy now on Amazon If you're looking for an affordable waterproof mascara, look no further than Maybelline Lash Sensational. The ultra-black mascara transforms limp lashes into luscious, voluminous and fluttery eyelashes in just a couple of coats.  The bestselling Maybelline mascara is highly rated on Amazon and shoppers rave about how it 'lasts all day' and is 'easy to apply'. And the price is pretty perfect, too. To get the most out of your mascara, start at the outer corner of your eye. Wiggle the wand back and forth and right into the base of the lash line, then repeat. Buy now on Amazon MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.  
