online
{ By Claire Toureille For Mailonline   Published:  20:12, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8039267/People-disgusted-messy-diners-left-mess-restaurant-family-meal.html }
People have slamed a group of messy diners after they left their restaurant table covered in napkins, plates and food debris over the weekend.  The unknown group left their table in such a state after dining at a Harvester restaurant in Essex, that an angry witness shared a picture on the Spotted: Colchester Facebook group, shaming them for their bad manners.  In the snap, the table could be seen covered in rubbish - with the  bench and surrounding floor littered with leftovers. And Facebook users were angered by the lack of respect shown by the patrons, arguing that they should be ashamed of themselves for leaving someone else to clean their mess.   Sharing a picture of the mess to the page, a bystander wrote: 'I don’t care who you are, how often you get to go out to eat, how many kids you’ve got or how bad your day has been.  'It is NOT ok to go out to dinner and walk away from your table - leaving it in a state like this for somebody else to clear up,' they added.  'This is what happened in Harvester Colchester tonight. The poor young girl left with this disgusting mess didn’t know where to start.'  The post gathered nearly 4,000 reactions, more than 3,200 comments and was shared 5,500 times by angry members of the Essex community, who shamed the diners for their bad manners.  'I've seen this kind of thing before its dreadful . No consideration for anyone,' one wrote.  'A massive lack of respect . I have been taught from young to Treat people how you want to be treated where ever you are,' another said.  'Great parenting. Parents should be ashamed,' one wrote.  And parents of large families said there was no excuse for the lack of civility shown in the picture.   'I have 6 children two babies and as they have just started feeding there selves there can be an awful mess, but I always clean the table stack the plates,' said one.  'I even ask the staff for a dust pan and brush to clean everything off the floor, the staff always say it’s fine they will do it but I say I haven’t had to cook dinner for 8 for once cleaning up is nothing,' they went on.  
