{ By Heather Waugh and Rianne Addo For Mailonline   Published:  19:54, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8039113/Jake-Paul-calls-f-ing-idiot-breaks-silence-Twitter.html }
Jake Paul has broken his silence on social media after Gigi Hadid mocked him in a scathing tweet over the weekend. The supermodel was defending her boyfriend Zayn after the YouTuber took aim at the former One Direction star for allegedly being rude to him at the Tyson Fury v Deontay Wilder fight in Las Vegas on Saturday. Perhaps conceding that he lost the tweet war, Jake, 23, wrote: 'someone needs to take my phone when i'm drunk because I am a f***ing idiot'.  He also deleted all his tweets referencing Zayn, 27.  It all began when Jake tweeted that Zayn had been rude and aggressive to him 'for no reason' at the MGM in Vegas on Saturday - and that he narrowly avoided a physical altercation with the singer.  The online star told his 3.7 million Twitter followers: 'almost had to clap up zane from 1 direction because he is a little guy and has an attitude and basically told me to f**k off for no reason when I was being nice to him....  'zane ik you’re reading this... stop being angry cause u came home alone to ur big a** hotel room hahaha.' [sic] Jake continued to slam the Pillowtalk hitmaker as he added: 'bro he literally started yelling and freaking the f**k out. "you wanna test me mate". lol I feel bad for childhood stars.' [sic]    Stepping in to support her man, Gigi - who is rarely active on social media but tweeted from Milan Fashion Week - suggested Zayn chose to return to his hotel room as he wasn't keen on embarking on a night out with Jake and his 'YouTube groupies'.  The bold catwalk queen didn't hold back as she responded: 'Lol cause he doesn’t care to hang w you and your embarrassing crew of YouTube groupies ..?  'Home alone with his best friends like a respectful king cause he has me, sweetie. Unbothered by your irrelevant ugly a**. Go to bed ...'. [sic]   Fans of Gigi and Zayn were delighted to see the model take down Jake with a scathing tweet over the weekend.  In the romance department, Jake recently hit headlines after splitting from his 'wife' of just a few months, Tana Mongeau, who was recently spotted putting on a cosy display with his older brother Logan, 24.  Meanwhile, Gigi and Zayn confirmed their reunion in January nearly a year after ending their three-year relationship. The pair seem to be stronger than ever as the blonde recently opened up about wanting to start a family with the hunk. In a recent interview with i-D Magazine’s The Icons and Idols Issue, Gigi shared: 'I think that as I get older... well one day I'll start a family and I don't know if I will always be modelling. 'I love the creative side of fashion, it's so fulfilling. The people I work with make me so happy, I'm so lucky to be around them. But who knows? Maybe I'll take up full time cooking!'  The showbiz couple first dated in November 2015, three months after he called off his engagement to Little Mix singer Perrie Edwards.  After just over two years together, the couple confirmed their break-up on Twitter in March 2018. The IMG model and the musician rekindled their romance a month later as they were pictured packing on the PDA in images obtained by TMZ. Gigi and Zayn kept the status of their relationship low-key from August 2018, five months before they officially split.  Prior to their romance, the What Makes You Beautiful hitmaker dated fellow singer Perrie, 26, from early 2012 to July 2015, while Vogue coverstar Gigi was in a relationship with Australian musician Cody Simpson from 2013 to 2015.   
