online
{ By Daily Mail Australia   Published:  19:50, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8039293/How-Quaden-Bayles-GoFundMe-money-spent.html }
Excess money raised to send a bullied boy to Disneyland will be given to charity, according to comedian Brad Williams, who organised the fundraiser.  Quaden Bayles, from Brisbane, made international headlines last week when his mother Yarraka filmed him saying he wanted to die after being bullied at school. The heartbreaking footage prompted celebrities across the globe to publicly defend the schoolboy, including actor Hugh Jackman, rugby league legend Johnathan Thurston, rapper Cardi B and broadcaster Piers Morgan. After the Disneyland trip for Quaden is paid for, the rest of the funds will be donated to charity. 'After all the flights, hotel, tickets and food is paid for, any excess money will be donated to anti-bullying/anti-abuse charities,' the GoFundMe for Quaden states. It has been reported the GofundMe page will support both US and Australian charities. The exact charities have not yet been revealed.  Quaden has since been invited on several global trips and experiences, including Disneyland in California, courtside tickets to an NBA game and an offer to attend a mixed martial arts masterclass in Singapore. American comedian Brad Williams, who also has dwarfism, raised more than $700,000 (US$465,899) to send Quaden and his mother to Disneyland. 'I'm setting up this GoFundMe to let Quaden know that bullying will not be tolerated, and that he is a wonderful human being who deserves joy,' Williams wrote on the GoFundMe page.  'I want to fly Quaden and his mother to America, get them a nice hotel, and bring them to Disneyland.' All excess funds raised will be donated to anti-bullying charities.  After learning that Quaden was an NBA fan, the Houston Rockets basketball team invited him to sit courtside at one of their games in Texas. 'Cool shirt, Quaden! We're on your team. We'd like to invite you to Houston to come to a game when you visit the U.S.,' the team posted, along with a photo of Quaden wearing a Houston Rockets t-shirt.   Martial arts champion and ONE Championship founder Chatri Sityodtong, 49, also offered to fly Quaden and his family on an all-expenses paid trip to Singapore.  Sityodtong praised Quaden's strength and invited him to be taught martial arts in a video posted online on Friday.   The martial arts champion also promised to teach Quaden himself.   'I just wanted to share an update on Quaden Bayles. I just spoke to his amazing mom, Yarraka, over the phone,' Sityodtong tweeted. 'She has graciously accepted my invitation to come to Singapore for an all-expenses-paid vacation so Quaden can learn martial arts at EVOLVE [Asia's leading martial arts organisation].' Quaden's mother Yarraka shared the distressing video which sparked the outpouring of support after picking her son up from school on February 19. The schoolboy, who has achondroplasia - the most common type of dwarfism - told his mother: 'Give me a rope, I want to kill myself.' In the video, which has been viewed more than three million times, Quaden also said: 'I just want to stab myself in the heart... I want someone to kill me.' Quaden also scratched at his neck and said: 'I want to die... I want to scratch myself.'  The Murri boy led out the Indigenous All-Stars NRL team on Saturday night on the Gold Coast.  Quaden was invited to walk onto the pitch at Cbus Super Stadium as they took on the Maori All-Stars. The crowd erupted in cheers as Quaden entered the field hand-in-hand with captain Joel Thompson at about 8pm. He was dressed in an All-Stars jersey, donned black noise-cancelling headphones and clung to the match ball as he strode into the middle of the pitch. Quaden stopped at the halfway mark to pose for a pre-match photo with a referee, Thompson and Maori All-Stars co-captain Adam Blair. Before entering the field, the nine-year-old gave high-fives to the squad members of the Maori All-Stars.  He was earlier snapped smiling with commentator and former North Queensland Cowboys star Johnathan Thurston. Quaden has also received an outpouring of support online from other celebrities.  Hugh Jackman, 51, told the schoolboy that he'll always be his friend. The Les Misérables star also sent a powerful message to Quaden's bullies, saying that 'life is hard enough' without people going out of their way to upset others. 'Quaden, you are stronger than you know, mate,' Hugh said in a video shared with his 14 million Twitter followers.  He added: 'And no matter what, you've got a friend in me.' US president Donald Trump's son Eric has also spoken out about the viral video of Quaden crying to his mother.  'This is absolutely heartbreaking. God bless this little boy... Quaden - we are all with you! Stay strong!,' Eric Trump wrote on Twitter on Friday.  British broadcaster Piers Morgan described the post as 'heartbreaking' 'Poor little guy. Hope he gets all the support he needs and deserves,' the British broadcaster tweeted.  Australian world champion boxer Billy Dib revealed he had spoken to Quaden on a FaceTime video call and offered to give him some free training sessions. Dib shared a picture of the youngster wearing a Boston Celtics basketball jersey on Instagram alongside the words 'we stand with Quaden'. The nine-year-old's teary-eyed video has also attracted the attention of NBA player and Celtics star Enes Kanter. 'This is one of the hardest video I've watched,' he wrote.    Rapper Cardi B also shared an impassioned video to social media, defending  Quaden after trolls accused him of secretly being an adult.  A conspiracy theory was spread that the nine-year-old schoolboy is actually an 18-year-old man. 1. He was at his friend's 18th birthday - not his own - in January 2. His modelling profile, which may not have been updated, says he is eight-years-old 3. He appeared on TV toothless and playing with toys as a four-year-old 4. A photo of him purportedly drinking alcohol has been cropped to remove the Appletiser bottle beside him 5. A baby photo from 2010 shows him at 16 days old 'Everyone keeps saying he's lying about his age,' the outspoken rapper told her 59.3 million Instagram followers. 'I really don't think he's lying about his age. 'And just because there's videos of him flossing money and acting all gangster, and acting all cool and everything, it doesn't mean that kids do not pick on him. 'Come on, just because he's acting a certain type of way and trying to be cool, his parents are probably trying to boost up his ego and make him act a certain type of way for Instagram.'  One post circulating on Twitter said Quaden's high-profile Instagram page and lucrative modelling career were proof he 'scammed everybody'. The accuser also pointed to a photo of Quaden at an 18th birthday party, saying the celebrations were for him. His mother hit out at the claims as they gathered pace on social media, sharing a post from someone who said they knew Quaden before his video went viral.  One Instagram photo of the nine-year-old had been subtly cropped by his accusers so it showed him appearing to drink wine with his mother.  In fact, a bottle of Appletiser was sitting on a table next to him - proving his beverage was sparkling apple juice. The young boy's modelling success and strong Instagram following has also raised doubts about his age.  On Saturday, both his and his mother's profiles on the platform were deleted. His profile on the Star Now talent directory website says he is eight years old, with beginner modelling experience. Quaden also appeared on television as a four-year-old, sitting on his mother's lap playing with toys in an interview with Studio 10 in 2015. Looking further back, Yarraka Bayles shared a picture of her son's sixth birthday cake in December 2016 and in 2010 celebrated Quaden turning 16 days old.   
