online
{ By Press Association   Published:  18:42, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//mostread/article-8039085/Leaning-Tower-Dallas-resists-second-demolition-attempt.html }
The 'Leaning Tower of Dallas' has remained standing despite a second attempt to knock it down on Monday.  Dozens of people gathered in the center of the Texas city to watch as a crane and wrecking ball were used to batter the former Affiliated Computer Services building from 9am. But the unsightly building was still resembling the wonky stature of Italy's Leaning Tower of Pisa by the afternoon despite many tries at demolishing it with force.  The 11-story building had found a second life online after surviving a first demolition attempt.  It inspired jokes and comparisons to the iconic European site when a February 16 implosion failed to bring down its core.  The company that engineered the blast said some explosives did not go off.  In the following week, people flocked to the site to post photos of themselves pretending to prop up the lopsided tower. The remainder of the building proved resilient on Monday. 'They're taking the wrecking ball and hitting the side of it over and over again, and it's still just ineffective,' said Shawn Graybill, a 24-year-old who lives nearby and came out in his pajamas to watch the demolition. 'It's not knocking the tower down.' Lloyd Nabors, whose company is handling the demolition, previously said the tower was leaning in the direction it was intended to fall, and there were no safety concerns. The building is being demolished to make way for a 2.5 billion dollar mixed-use project. The demolition had been set to end by noon, but the the core of the tower, including the elevator shafts, was still standing around 3pm.  Minutes before noon the work crew lowered the wrecking ball back to the ground. And as the effort to topple the structure stretched into the afternoon, people began to take another genre of photo - pretending to push the tower over rather than prop it up.  As the demolition work took place, an online petition to 'save this landmark from destruction' continued to draw signatures. Under reasons to help make it a UNESCO Heritage Site, the Change.org petition listed: Cultural and historical significance, Sticking it to sh***y developers, Preventing more overpriced housing, That sweet tourism money, Adds character and Dank memes'. Mr Graybill said he has not signed but plans to if the tower does not tumble soon. 
