{ By Heidi Parker and Glenn Garner For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:35, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8038995/Wendy-Williams-55-denies-dating-jeweler-stars-William-Selby.html }
Wendy Williams said loud and clear that she is not dating anyone. The talk show diva denied during her show on Monday that she was in a romance with jeweler William Selby (aka Big Will, aka Willdaboss) after sharing some flirty photos online with him on Saturday. The 55-year-old former radio star is coming off a painful 2019 divorce from longtime husband Kevin Hunter. Wendy talked directly to her audience during her show on Monday. 'I had an interesting weekend,' Williams said on The Wendy Williams Show. She first talked about rapper Black Papi.  'It was all innocent to me but apparently it caused waves everywhere else. All I'm doing is being Wendy. So I met this young man that I really like. Not in that way, I was setting you up with dramatic effect, he's this rapper from Philly. 'His name is Black Papi. He's 27,' she said. 'Now, I went to a studio session because he's working on his album and he's working on it in N.Y.  'Now, I don't know Black Papi but I was going along for a ride on Friday night. So Black Papi, 27, he's from from Philly. He got his mom on the FaceTime. His mom and I are the same age. She and I are talking like we're two homegirls. … I told Papi, "Look, your weight is not quite up for the Wendy Show. But one day …"' The star went on. 'I was only at the studio for 35 minutes,' Williams added. 'I was with my friend, who is also my jeweler, Will. But and whatever, here is the big [scoop]. Will is my friend, he happens to be a jeweler. I'm one of his probably low-paying clients. I'm not buying jewelry all the time.' She then said Selby 'fixes stuff, shines stuff, he's made a couple of pieces for me.' And she said she likes him a whole lot. 'Will is involved with his family, he's got a whole 'nother life,' she said. 'No, we did not plan to dress alike. A lot of you all said we looked like a couple. No, we're not a couple. I got on a beige negligee and threw on that [coat]. It was cold out. And then we get in the studio and I put it on my 'gram. 'Yeah, we're huddled like this in the studio because it's freezing in there,' she added.  'It's like five degrees, it's colder in there than it is in here. The studio is only about the size of my chair, you know. Papi's in the other room, rapping. I'm sitting there huddled. Belly full from meatballs and all kinds of stuff we ate earlier. And next thing you know there's accusations being thrown.' She then made it clear they are only friends. 'We are not a couple and I do not have a boyfriend,' she claimed. 'That's it. If I did, I wouldn't have been out with Will.'    She held his arm as they were seen dining out at Aroma Trattoria.  He shared: 'V-Day Special for the incomparable @wendyshow.'  Selby also served as her arm candy Thursday, accompanying her to the premiere of Spotify's documentary New Cash Order.   'My sister worked tirelessly for domestic violence victims and women's rights. Wendy Williams should apologize publicly to my family for her comment.' The joke came just days after she released an apology video for telling gay men to 'stop wearing our skirts and our heels.' She previously came under fire for making yet another insensitive joke about Joaquin Phoenix's cleft palate.  Meanwhile, Williams finalized her divorce from husband-of-22-years Kevin Hunter last month, after taking a sabbatical to focus on her family and her own mental health.  
