online
{ By Leigh Mcmanus For Mailonline   Published:  16:56, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8038669/Furious-parents-slam-primary-school-drag-queen-Flowjob-read-pupils-young-four.html }
The decision to invite a drag queen to speak at a Scottish primary school caused an outcry from parents after sexually explicit social media posts were found on the performer's online profiles.  Drag queen FlowJob was invited into Glencoats Primary in Paisley, Renfrewshire, last week to speak to pupils about the notorious Section 28 Act, which was later repealed. The Act was introduced by Margaret Thatcher to ban the 'promotion of homosexuality' in schools. After parents voiced concern that sexually explicit images were on FlowJob's social media profile, including simulating a sex act with a dildo and simulating oral sex, Renfrewshire Council has said it would never have invited the performer had it been aware of the posts.  One parent told the Daily Star: 'While I don't agree with the abuse being given, my kids go to this school there was no information fed to parents about this happening. Surely that's a parents choice? I'm happy my child is learning about LGBT but it's overtaking the school now. Something every week. 'I'm not opposed to learning about LGBT, but my 7 year old doesn't need to know what a drag queen is and certainly not the one they had in. The headteacher is more concerned about furthering her career than tackling issuing that our school has.' Another wrote on social media: 'Their username is 'flowjobqueen' and their timeline is full of explicit images of them simulating sexual acts. Of course they've just just done a drag queen story reading to primary school children.' The drag queen replied: 'Don't bring your negativity to my profile. I am a drag queen yes who does adult jokes, but I also do under 18 Venus and cater around children.'  A third added: 'Would be good to hear a response as to why an adult entertainer called Flowjob was deemed appropriate for kids? Were the vetted prior to the event? What was the content of these lessons? As a gay man with young nieces and nephews just starting school I am concerned.' The event was also attended by Renfrewshire MSP Mhairi Black, a vocal activist for LGBTQ rights. She slated critics and accused them of homophobia. Writing on Twitter, she said: 'You just know that the people pretending to be livid that a drag queen read a book in a school are also the people who run out to buy their kids the latest Grand Theft Auto on release day. 'Your homophobia is transparent.' And campaign group LGBT Youth Scotland wrote on Twitter: 'We're horrified to see the abusive messages and tweets targeting Glencoats Primary School for their bold and brilliant LGBT inclusive education practices. 'We are proud to work with their pioneering headteacher, and recognise the school as an example to others across the country.' A Renfrewshire Council spokesperson said: 'The school pupils at Glencoats Primary are currently organising a series of activities and events to mark LGBT history month. In discussion with pupils in their Rainbow Club, one of their requests was to invite people from the LGBT community to hear about their own experiences growing up and they wanted to invite a drag queen to talk to this group to hear about their own personal experience.  'Learning about values including equalities and diversity has an important role in the school curriculum. 'All school visits are arranged and managed with the wellbeing of pupils first and foremost however it is clear in this case, the social media content associated with the speaker's stage persona is not appropriate for children and had we been aware of this, the visit would not have been arranged.  'We are sorry for the concern this has caused and are investigating.'  FlowJob was introduced to pupils as 'Flow' at the event, hosted to mark LGBT History Month. Glencoats headteacher Heather Watson told the Paisley Daily Express: 'Top of the list was to invite a drag queen into school to talk about her experiences growing up and her job. 'Flow met with (pupils) and parent council members and Mhairi Black to discuss what it was like growing up during Section 28 when it was illegal for school staff to talk about anything LGBT.' A spokesman for campaign group ForWomen.scot said: 'Sending abusive messages to a school is not OK, but questions about this are legitimate. 'A male who dresses as a sexualised parody of a women, goes by the name 'flowjob' is hardly a role model for primary aged children. 'Did no one check this?'. Flowjob wrote on Twitter today, saying: 'Hello everyone, I woke up to over 1k notifications and over 30 DM's due to majority of it being abuse I have chosen not to go through the comments, there is to many small minded to people to try and justify what I have done, but thank you to everyone who has supported me.'     
