{ By Emilia Jiang For Mailonline   Published:  16:25, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8037817/Chinese-community-officer-beats-two-toy-poodles-death-stop-spread-coronavirus.html }
A Chinese community officer has allegedly beaten two toy poodles to death with an iron rod in front of their owner to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The pets were clubbed to death in broad daylight in a residential complex after the officer and the dogs' owner got into a heated argument, according to reports.  It is said the officer tried to stop the owner from walking his pets, but the resident insisted on taking the animals out. A blogger, who claimed to be the dog owner's friend, has posted a video of the officer violently striking one of the dogs as the owner tries to protect his pet.  The owner is seen in the video backing away from the community officer and trying to protect the toy poodle in his arms. The online user said the owner was walking his two toy poodles on Sunday morning before the officer 'snatched the dogs away'.  'The officer threatened to beat the owner to death if he didn't give away the dogs,' the account wrote in his Twitter-like Weibo.  One of the dogs was 10-year-old and had crippled back legs, the Weibo user said. He condemned the officer in his post: 'You've killed dogs today. Are you going to kill people tomorrow? 'Where is justice when such violence exists?'  In a post allegedly uploaded by the officer, he apologised for his behaviour. He said: 'I'm deeply sorry and I will compensate the owner accordingly.' He claimed that residents had been banned from walking their dogs in the complex 'out of concerns over the coronavirus outbreak'.  'The owner refused to listen after our management team had tried to reason with him multiple times,' he wrote in the post.  The officer continued, 'We were both very stressed out and aggressive. I overreacted after we got into an argument. I want to express my deepest apology again.'    The incident is now under investigation by local police, according to Chinese media. Communities around China have ordered their residents to stop keeping pets - or risk getting them culled - amid fears that animals could also catch the new virus.    A distressing video shared by Nanchong Missing Animal Aid Group last week shows several bloodied dogs, thought to be dead, lying at the back of a truck. It is reported that community officers in south-western China's Sichuan Province knocked on doors and ordered villages to hand over their pets.    Fears of pets being able to spread the disease began last month after a Chinese health expert claimed animals needed to be quarantined during the outbreak to stop the spread of the disease. However, the World Health Organization dismissed the claims suggesting there is no evidence to show the virus being transmitted to pets. The new coronavirus has killed at least 2,628 people and infected over 79,732 people around the world.   Italy announced today its fifth death from as the country imposes drastic security measures to contain the first major outbreak in Europe.  China's top legislative committee on Monday passed a proposal to ban all trade and consumption of wild animals, a practice believed responsible for the country's deadly disease.  Experts believe that the new coronavirus has been passed onto humans by wildlife sold as food, especially bats and snakes.  Moscow has ordered police to raid hotels, dorms, apartment buildings and businesses in search of Chinese people as Russia attempts to stem the spread of coronavirus. Bus, underground and tram drivers have also been told to report if a Chinese person boards their vehicle before handing them a questionnaire asking why they are in the country and whether they quarantined themselves after arrival. An email that leaked over the weekend suggested that police would also be alerted to Chinese nationals on public transport, though authorities claimed it was a fake. Moscow's mayor has also announced that the city will use facial recognition technology to ensure arrivals from China observe a two-week home quarantine. Since the outbreak of the new virus that has infected more than 76,000 people and killed more than 2,300 in mainland China, Russia has reported two cases. Both patients, Chinese nationals hospitalized in Siberia, recovered quickly.  Russian authorities nevertheless are going to significant - some argue discriminatory - lengths to keep the virus from resurfacing and spreading.  
