online
{ By Bridie Pearson-jones For Mailonline   Published:  15:52, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/food/article-8037913/KFC-launching-80-PIECE-popcorn-chicken-bucket-5-99.html }
KFC fans have shared their excitement after the fast food chain announced it's launching an 80-piece KFC bucket for just £5.99. The new product is available in stores from today, and will stay on sale until March 23 in all UK restaurants. After the chicken shop tweeted about the new offer this morning, fans were quick to revel in joy, saying it was 'the best news ever' and telling their friends they'll be rushing to the store.  KFC also confirmed on Twitter today that diners can go straight into the store to order, and don't need to order from their app.  The bargain deal means the chicken is less than 8p a piece and it follows a successful trail in the chain's Glasgow store last September. One excited fan said this morning: 'You guys better not be trolling me.' Comedy Central wrote: 'Just when we were done with 2020...' A third commented:  'This is the greatest timeline' While others were lightly concerned about the incoming chicken. 'I have so many questions, but one that stands out the most is how much gravy would I need for all of it. I am asking for my stomach' one commented. 'Why do you have to do this on the first day of my diet?' said another. 'Well no point going gym today' joked a third. It comes after the chain collaborated with Pizza Hut earlier this month to launch a popcorn chicken pizza. The two fast food giants teased fans with the collaboration last year, but it was only on offer for two days.    Taking classic ingredients from both restaurants, the popcorn chicken pizza features a doughy classic crust base, smothered in KFC's gravy and sprinkled with mozzarella and sweetcorn.    It's then topped with pieces of KFC's famous popcorn chicken coated in the secret 11 herbs and spices blend. The pizza is only available as a takeaway option, and the exact price depends on where you order from. It's only available in large size, which is made up of 10 slices, and usually costs around £20, but can cost less when included in deals. 
