{ By Rianne Addo For Mailonline   Published:  16:09, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8038531/Gigi-Hadid-stands-yellow-trench-coat-arrives-Paris-Fashion-Week.html }
She left Milan on Sunday following the end of Fashion Week alongside her mask-wearing sister Bella Hadid, amid the coronavirus outbreak in the Italian city. And Gigi Hadid maintained her busy work schedule as she arrived in Paris, France, for the last stretch of the industry's AW20 presentations on Monday afternoon. The supermodel, 24, caught the eye in a vibrant yellow trench as she departed the five-star Royal Monceau Hotel and headed to fittings ahead of her catwalk appearances.  Cutting a typically fashion-forward figure, the runway queen teamed her bright outerwear with a patterned suit and matching shirt. The media personality added a touch of casual chic to her statement Berluti look as she sported a pair of chunky purple trainers. With her tresses styled into a sleek bun, Gigi prepped her naturally radiant skin for fashion's leading showcases as she went make-up free.  The Vogue coverstar rounded things off with a pair of huge square-framed sunglasses as she was pictured in the French capital solo. On Sunday, Giorgio Armani announced the cancellation of the fashion house's 4PM show following the spread of coronavirus in northern Italy. It's not known if Bella or sister Gigi, 24, were due to walk for that show. Three more deaths were confirmed in Lombardy on Monday after three men aged 80, 84 and 88 died from the virus, bringing Italy's death toll to six.   Over the weekend, Gigi jumped to boyfriend Zayn Malik's defence as Jake Paul claimed the singer told him to 'f**k off for no reason'.  The blonde took to Twitter to hit back at the controversial YouTuber, 23, after he alleged that he narrowly avoided a physical altercation with the former One Direction singer, 27. In an uncharacteristically foul-mouthed exchange, Gigi branded the social media personality 'embarrassing' and insisted her on-off beau is 'unbothered' by his 'irrelevant ugly a**'.  Bizaardvark actor Jake recalled his encounter with Zayn as he claimed he was caught off guard by the musician's 'attitude' when they met. It is unclear where the pair crossed paths, but they both documented their time at the Tyson Fury v Deontay Wilder match, which took place at Las Vegas' MGM Grand on Saturday evening. The online sensation told his 3.7 million Twitter followers: 'almost had to clap up zane from 1 direction because he is a little guy and has an attitude and basically told me to f**k off for no reason when I was being nice to him....  'zane ik you’re reading this... stop being angry cause u came home alone to ur big a** hotel room hahaha.' [sic] Jake continued to slam the Pillowtalk hitmaker as he added: 'bro he literally started yelling and freaking the f**k out. “you wanna test me mate”. lol I feel bad for childhood stars.' [sic] Stepping in to support her man - who is rarely active on social media - from across the globe, Gigi suggested Zayn opted to return to his hotel room as he wasn't keen on embarking on a night out with Jake and his 'YouTube groupies'. The Bad Blood star didn't hold back as she responded: 'Lol cause he doesn’t care to hang w you and your embarrassing crew of YouTube groupies ..?  'Home alone with his best friends like a respectful king cause he has me, sweetie. Unbothered by your irrelevant ugly a**. Go to bed ...'. [sic]  MailOnline contacted Jake, Zayn and Gigi's representatives for further comment at the time of publication.  
