{ By Jessica Rach For Mailonline   Published:  15:12, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8038067/Ty-Tennant-reveals-hope-Dr-family.html }
David Tennant's son has shared his hopes of becoming the third Doctor Who star in his family, following in the footsteps of his father and grandfather Peter Davison, who played the fifth incarnation of the character between 1982 and 1984. Actor Ty Tennant, 17, from London, has already starred on  Casualty, in 2019's Tolkien and in the upcoming TV adaptation of The War Of The Worlds, and has garnered an impressive online following as he steps out of his parents' shadow. And acting clearly runs in his blood, as his mother Georgia Tennant, 35, daughter of Peter Davison, 68, has starred in various TV series, as well as playing The Doctor's clone daughter Jenny in the Doctor Who episode 'The Doctor's Daughter'. Speaking to the Sunday Post this week, Ty said of playing the iconic role: 'I don't think I would ever decline the offer. Doctor Who is such a massive thing to take on.' He added: 'Whoever is truly right for it will get the role. If I am granted that, I will certainly do my best.'  Ty was born in 2003 to actress Georgia, who met David Tennant, who played the tenth Time Lord in the series, on set while he was playing the coveted role between 2005 to 2010.  Georgia subsequently married David, now 48, in 2011, the same year he adopted Ty, and the couple went on to have four more children.  David previously revealed he had become a 'double dad' after adopting his wife Georgia's son Tyler. He told Absolute Radio in 2012: 'My baby is almost a year old and I adopted my wife's boy last year as well so I became a father twice in six months - that's got to be something of a record hasn't it?'   And a glimpse at his Instagram shows Ty has already built up his own impressive following, boasting a fanbase of almost 19,000.  The teen actor shares frequent selfies with his parents and four siblings, showing a family oriented environment. And he appears to be multi-talented, with one post showing him singing with a band at home, and another snap sees him posing at Abbey Road Studios. Another snap sees him on set with actress Daisy Edgar-Jones, as he teases his upcoming role in War Of The Worlds, where he plays Tom Gresham opposite Downton Abbey actress Elizabeth McGovern.  Ty made his film debut playing a young Christopher Wiseman in the Tolkien biopic, alongside big-name actors Nicholas Hoult and Lily Collins.  Georgia gave birth to Tyler in 2002, when she was just 17. She brought him up alone and has never publicly revealed who the father is. David and Georgia married in a romantic ceremony on New Year's Eve in 2011 after meeting when Georgia played the actor's daughter in Doctor Who. David played the role of The Doctor in the hit series from 2005 to 2010, while Georgia's dad Peter Davison played the titular Time Lord between 1981 and 1984. Ty has siblings Olive, eight, Wilfred, six, and Doris, four- and his father David recently admitted that while raising five children is 'quite a lot', his finds parenthood 'great'.  Appearing on Jonathan Ross in December, David revealed Ty had been giving him lectures about birth control, joking: 'Five is a lot. What's really weird about it is we're now getting lectures on birth control from our 17-year-old son. And that's definitely meant to be the other way around. 'He's like "Come on, do I need to teach you the basics?" It's mental. It's a lot.'     
