{ By Leigh Mcmanus For Mailonline   Published:  14:14, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8038117/Butcher-selling-carrots-pork-fed-vegans-naming-food-meat.html }
A disgruntled butcher is so fed up of vegans naming food after meat he is selling carrots made from pork.  Tom Samways, 36, from Cardigan, Wales, used pork mince to make the 'carrots' in a dig at vegan alternatives. His carrot recipe is finished off with an orange glaze for colour and parsley for the leaves. And the bizarre veg has been a hit with customers - with 300 sold in just one day. He said: 'Everyone loved them. It started out as a bit of a joke, they were just a gimmick - but they have gone down well and we'll be making more. 'The idea came from the fact that a lot of vegan food is named after meat products, like vegan sausages and vegan chicken. 'I just thought, well, let's make a meat version of vegan food. 'They're just pork kebabs really. They're made from high-quality minced pork meat and are glazed with an Italian herb dressing to get that orange look. Then they're finished off with a bit of parsley.' Mr Samways is the owner of T Samways High Class Butchers in Cardigan, West Wales. He said he did receive negative comments online about the carrots. He added: 'I have had a lot of backlash over it, including some not very nice comments. But at the end of the day it's just a joke. 'I don't know if veganism is a fad or not, but I haven't noticed a drop in sales. At first I was a bit concerned, especially during Veganuary but if anything I've seen an increase in sales. We're definitely up every month. 'I think it's because people are a lot more aware of where their food comes from now. A lot of customers come in wanting high-class meat from a Welsh farm. They don't want to get it from a supermarket anymore. 'I don't have anything against vegans or businesses that change their products to suit demand - you have to do what works for you. But people who come to my butchers are meat-eaters.' 
