{ By Ian Randall For Mailonline   Published:  14:07, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-8037927/Thousands-private-WhatsApp-group-chats-exposed-Google-search-results-experts-warn.html }
Thousands of private WhatsApp group chats including those used to trade child sex abuse images have been exposed in Google search results. The messaging app's group chat feature is 'not as secure' as its users may think, experts warn, and users' phone numbers and conversations could be exposed. Groups are normally only available to join by direct invitation within the app, or via the creation of a digital invite link that can be shared anywhere. However, WhatsApp appeared not to have configured these links to request that they do not get indexed by search engines like Google. Around 470,000 such invite links had been added to Google's index — allowing them to be pulled up with simple search terms. Following the identification of the issue, WhatsApp has now configured its chat site to request that search engines like Google do not index invite links. However, these exposed links are still appearing on other search engines link Bing, Yandex and DuckDuckGo — and may still be published elsewhere on the internet. WhatsApp users who fear that their group chats may have been exposed can reset their group invitation links via the in-app group settings. Scroll down for video If you fear that your group chat has been exposed online, you can reset the chat link via the group settings.  To this, select the group name in the chat window in-app. From here, select 'Invite to Group via Link' and hit 'Reset Link'. WhatsApp warn users to online share invite links with people they trust.  The security issue was first pointed out on Twitter by journalist Jordan Wildon of the German media firm Deutsche Welle. 'Your WhatsApp groups may not be as secure as you think they are,' Mr Wildon wrote. 'The "Invite to Group via Link" feature allows groups to be indexed by Google and they are generally available across the internet.  'With some wildcard search terms you can easily find some… interesting… groups.'  These included WhatsApp groups apparently established for the sharing of 'nude live videos' and child sex abuse images.  However, the flaw also exposed groups relating to major organisations like the United Nations, the Sun reported. Anyone finding a group link online could conceivably join the chat — enabling them to see potentially private or confidential exchanges as well as the members' phone numbers and WhatsApp usernames.  According to computer security expert Jane Manchung Wong, a simple Google search revealed around 470,000 WhatsApp group invite links. 'Group admins in WhatsApp groups are able to invite any WhatsApp user to join that group by sharing a link that they have generated,' a spokesperson for WhatsApp said in a statement. 'Like all content that is shared in searchable, public channels, invite links that are posted publicly on the internet can be found by other WhatsApp users. 'Links that users wish to share privately with people they know and trust should not be posted on a publicly accessible website.'  Regarding the existence of group chats for the sharing of child pornography on their platform, WhatsApp said its has a zero-tolerance policy around child sexual abuse and bans around 250,000 accounts each month in adherence with this.  July 2019: Facebook data scandal: Social network fined $5bn over 'inappropriate' sharing of users' personal information March 2019: Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg promised to rebuild based on six 'privacy-focused' principles: Zuckerberg promised end-to-end encryption for all of its messaging services, which will be combined in a way that allows users to communicate across WhatsApp, Instagram Direct, and Facebook Messenger. December 2018: Facebook comes under fire after a bombshell report discovered the firm allowed over 150 companies, including Netflix, Spotify and Bing, to access unprecedented amounts of user data, such as private messages. Some of these 'partners' had the ability to read, write, and delete Facebook users' private messages and to see all participants on a thread.  It also allowed Microsoft's search engine, known as Bing, to see the name of all Facebook users' friends without their consent. Amazon was allowed to obtain users' names and contact information through their friends, and Yahoo could view streams of friends' posts. As of last year, Sony, Microsoft, and Amazon could all obtain users' email addresses through their friends. September 2018: Facebook disclosed that it had been hit by its worst ever data breach, affecting 50 million users - including those of Facebook boss Mark Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg. Attackers exploited the site's 'View As' feature, which lets people see what their profiles look like to other users.   The unknown attackers took advantage of a feature in the code called 'Access Tokens,' to take over people's accounts, potentially giving hackers access to private messages, photos and posts - although Facebook said there was no evidence that had been done.  The hackers also tried to harvest people's private information, including name, sex and hometown, from Facebook's systems. Facebook said it doesn't yet know if information from the affected accounts has been misused or accessed, and is working with the FBI to conduct further investigations. However, Mark Zuckerberg assured users that passwords and credit card information was not accessed. As a result of the breach, the firm logged roughly 90 million people out of their accounts earlier today as a security measure. March 2018: Facebook made headlines earlier this year after the data of 87 million users was improperly accessed by Cambridge Analytica, a political consultancy. The disclosure has prompted government inquiries into the company's privacy practices across the world, and fueled a '#deleteFacebook' movement among consumers. Communications firm Cambridge Analytica had offices in London, New York, Washington, as well as Brazil and Malaysia. The company boasts it can 'find your voters and move them to action' through data-driven campaigns and a team that includes data scientists and behavioural psychologists. 'Within the United States alone, we have played a pivotal role in winning presidential races as well as congressional and state elections,' with data on more than 230 million American voters, Cambridge Analytica claims on its website. The company profited from a feature that meant apps could ask for permission to access your own data as well as the data of all your Facebook friends. This meant the company was able to mine the information of 87 million Facebook users even though just 270,000 people gave them permission to do so. This was designed to help them create software that can predict and influence voters' choices at the ballot box. The data firm suspended its chief executive, Alexander Nix, after recordings emerged of him making a series of controversial claims, including boasts that Cambridge Analytica had a pivotal role in the election of Donald Trump. This information is said to have been used to help the Brexit campaign in the UK. It has also suffered several previous issues. In 2013, Facebook disclosed a software flaw that exposed 6 million users' phone numbers and email addresses to unauthorized viewers for a year, while a technical glitch in 2008 revealed confidential birth-dates on 80 million Facebook users' profiles.     
