online
{ By Louise Ayling For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  14:01, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8037741/Predator-tradie-12-girl-nude-pictures-birthday-three-months-birth-child-no-jail.html }
A Queensland tradesman who asked a pre-teen girl for nude photos as a birthday present had only celebrated the birth of his first child three months earlier. Jamie Robert Lanskey, 31, avoided jail for grooming a 12-year-old girl online, despite his interactions being described at Cairns District Court as 'sexual and disgusting'.  The apprentice electrician tracked down his victim on Facebook messenger where he lied about his age to try and get naked photographs, The Cairns Post reported.    Lanskey told his victim he was 21 years old when they began talking in March 2018.  Within three days of the conversation the victim's parents discovered the messages and reported the incident to police. Police then lay a trap to catch Lanskey, with an officer posing as a 14-year-old girl and engaging in conversations of a sexual nature.  But it took almost a year before any charges could be laid as officers sought to uncover whether any other children had been targeted.   Lanskey faced Cairns District Court this week where he was given a suspended 18 month jail sentence. Sickening details emerged during the court appearance. Crown prosecutor Jodie Crane told the court Lanskey asked the girl why he 'didn't get my present' when she refused to send him naked photos.  Lanskey then asked the undercover police officer for naked photos. When police sent through two images, including a photo of a child with their underwear partially pulled down the new father made sexually explicit comments about the image. Lanksey was charged with two counts of grooming a child under 16. His defence argued against jail time, saying Lanskey had already undergone counselling and rehabilitation over the incident.  Judge Brian Devereaux said it was clear Lanskey was 'ashamed and remorseful' for his actions. 
