{ By Rianne Addo For Mailonline   Published:  13:05, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8037695/Vicky-Pattison-details-struggle-body-image-insists-beau-helps-accept-curves.html }
Vicky Pattison has admitted she struggles with body image in an exclusive interview with MailOnline. The former Geordie Shore star, 32, confessed she puts 'a lot of pressure' on herself to maintain her figure, but insisted being in a healthy relationship with supportive boyfriend Ercan Ramadan has helped her embrace her curves.  In the candid discussion, the media personality also touched on her mental health journey, finding The One and her decision to freeze her eggs as she promoted her new brand ambassador role with lift and shape tape brand Perky Pear. The former Queen of the Jungle has been open about her experience with body confidence in past, having embarked on a series of wellness retreats, launching a fitness DVD and slimming down from a size 16 to a size 6 back in 2013. Following nearly a decade in the spotlight, Vicky's relationship with her figure still fluctuates, but the TV star says she's more accepting of her frame now than ever before after having an 'epiphany' when she entered her 30s.  'I don't know if any woman looks in the mirror and is like, 'I'm a goddess!' We all struggle with [body image], and it's a shame we put a lot of pressure on ourselves', the I'm A Celeb 2015 contestant explained. The TV star believes her turning point came two years ago when she noticed physical changes.  She shared: 'Turning 30 was such a big thing for me, I was so scared. I knew there was going to be a lot of changes. The bags under your eyes, the hangovers are a punch in the d***!  'You go through a really hard time where you constantly compare yourself to others, and constantly in the pursuit of something else.'  The brunette beauty claims her fear of ageing almost encouraged an 'amazing epiphany' about self-acceptance.  Vicky told us: 'I'm always going to be a size 10, someone who watches what they eat, but I'm happy with that! I like what I see in the mirror, I like my curves and I am who I am. 'Being 30, in a healthy relationship with someone who likes the way I am and how I look, that's really helped me accept the way I look right now.  'I'll always try and be healthy and exercise, but that's more so for my mindset and wellbeing, as opposed to my aesthetic. Your 30s aren't that bad!' Late last year, the Newcastle native was left housebound, paralysed with fear and unable to breathe when her 'social anxiety and crippling self-doubt reached an all-time high'. On exploring new coping mechanisms to combat her mental health issues, Vicky credits exercise as 'the most under-utilised antidepressant out there.'  The Celebrity Hunted star said: 'I'm always looking for new ways to deal with the pressure we're all in as women. Society is very hard sometimes. I'm a firm believer in training.  'I'm less stressed and feel like I can deal with whatever life throws at me. Anything from going on a walk to a zumba class with your mate – I urge people to do something active as it's really helped me deal with my anxiety.' Vicky also discussed her 'horrific' experience with verbal abuse from online trolls and the importance of championing the #BeKind campaign, in light of Caroline Flack's tragic death. She confessed: 'Trolling is a really horrific part of my job that I have to deal with. I can't believe in the current climate in the insensitivity of [trolls], it's incredibly unbelievable.  'I'm happy that I have my friends, my sister, my boyfriend, my agent to help me, but I was speaking to my personal trainer the other day and he said that I can't keep replying to the comments.  'He said he was so frustrated for me as people still criticise you when you try and do positive things.' The Ant & Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway segment presenter is currently enjoying a 'digital detox' with her boyfriend Ercan, 36, to fight off her 'unhealthy relationship with social media'. Vicky added ahead of her trip: 'So for the next couple of days, I'll have a reset. Stepping away from the platform won't be such a bad idea as I can spend time on my boyfriend, our relationship and just for my own sanity.  'You can sucked into social media – there's highs and lows, and we've recently seen the dark side of it. I just have to look after myself.'  In the romance department, the former MTV star insists her relationship with her partner of 14 months Ercan is 'still going strong'.  Vicky was left heartbroken when her ex-fiancé John Noble was caught getting up close with a host of clubgoers in late 2018. Despite their painful split - which saw the couple call off their imminent wedding - the host says she doesn't hold a 'jaded view on marriage'.  She said: 'I haven't had the best luck with fellas, but if I was to be bitter or have a jaded view of marriage, commitment or men in general, that would be letting those negative relationships win.' Branding ex-builder Ercan 'The One', the former Virtually Famous captain enthused: 'I have an old romantic heart and I do believe in love, and I believe I've found love.  'This one feels different – I'm safe, secure and content. I'm happier than I ever have been before. I feel like we're working in the right direction but I don't want to put pressure on it as I've seen the errors in my ways.' Insisting the couple are taking things slow, Vicky added: 'I moved very fast in past relationships and was so desperate to be loved, but with Ercan, it feels like there's no rush.  'We recently started a personal training course together, we're trying to be the best versions of ourselves. We don't want to rush to that next stage, whether it be marriage or babies. It's important to enjoy every stage, we're chilling out.' The social media sensation also revealed the pair are set to move into their new Essex abode in the coming weeks, after setting up home together in their London rental in August.  Vicky - who is currently in between houses - said: 'I'm feeling a little displaced at the moment as I've moved out of my flat in London so I'm with my sister at the moment as Ercan and I wait for our new place to be ready. We're sofa-surfing as we speak! 'As much as I'd love to drag us back to Newcastle, there's no work for me there, so we've moved out of London and are back to Essex within the next few weeks. I lived there after I won the jungle and have a lot of friends from there.  'The last place we had in London was a rental, so we never thought that we could properly relax. We're dead excited.' In October last year, the Drama graduate revealed she's considering freezing her eggs 'to take the pressure off' expanding her family.  Four months on, she has kicked off the process, but admits after seeing her sister Laura - who became a mother last month - and her husband struggle with parenthood, she and one-time TOWIE star Ercan aren't ready to have children. The former Loose Women panellist said: 'I've been very open about my desire to have children. I was worried that I missed the boat, but I've started the process to freeze my eggs in case we do want children in a couple of years and it proves difficult. 'I don't think I'm in a place to have children right now. It's a painful decision to make as I'm 32, but after seeing how difficult pregnancy was for my sister, I know I'm not there.  'My sister and her husband have been together for years, but it's still incredibly difficult. It's such hard work, the constant crying and pressure. Ercan and I are still in the early stages of love, and I don't want to rush, even though I know my biological clock is ticking.  'I'm just trying to be sensible and think with my heart and not my head. It's f*****g hard work! 'There's things I still want to do, places I'd still like to go, and maybe I still want to get drunk on a Tuesday? I want to be spontaneous and still be selfish. We're putting things on ice!'  Last week, Vicky announced her new ambassadorship with celebrity favourite brand Perky Pear, worn by the likes of Celebs Go Dating's Charlotte Dawson, Love Island star Harley Brash and Big Brother 2010 winner Josie Gibson. Explaining why she decided to take up the role, the bubbly star said: 'I'm a big fan of the brand, I made myself a promise to only work with brands that I personally use and would like to work with.  'I've used it for red carpets and nights out. Being a lady, I've tried everything to keep my boobs under control. With DD breasts, it's always been an impossibility to wear clothes without a bra, so it's nice to have more fashion choice.  'They've made it inclusive. It's amazing to work with a brand that is designed by women and for women.' The Ex on the Beach: Body SOS presenter hails the product as the perfect non-surgical solution to a breast lift. Vicky praised: 'I wish I knew what I knew now. I took my time to get my boobs done. I did it off the back of a really big weight loss, I was very confident in my choice to [go under the knife].  'It's amazing that there are products like this that can be used as an alternative to surgery.' Vicky’s ambassadorship for the brand comes ahead of its first TV advertising campaign, #nostyleofflimits, which premieres on ITVEBe in April 2020.  
