online
{ By Stephanie Linning For Mailonline   Published:  12:44, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8037369/Luxury-ski-destinations-Beckhams-Mike-Tindall-Princess-Olympia-Greece-holiday.html }
Prince Edward and the Countess of Wessex made headlines last week with their family half-term holiday to the glamorous Swiss ski resort of St Moritz.  But the couple are far from the only high-flyers who have jetted off to the slopes this month. Fashionistas, celebrities and European royals have all shared photos of their own plush getaways, posing for photos on the pistes of Whistler, Courcheval and Gstaad. Meanwhile Albanian Instagram tastemaker Aureta Thomollari, 38, has showcased stunning scenery more off the beaten track: plumping for a jaunt to the mountains of Kosovo. So if you're looking to bump into a socialite or TV star next time you're in your finest aprés ski ensemble, scroll down to discover the ski resorts that have attracted the world's wealthiest ski enthusiasts.    Bormio, Italian Alps  WHO: Mike and Zara Tindall   Proving the love of skiing runs in the royal family, Mike and Zara Tindall also spent last week on the slopes, plumping for a trip to Bormio, in the Italian Alps.  Ex-England rugby star Mike, 41, shared a series of photos from their typically laid-back holiday on his Instagram account, revealing they had flown out to watch the English Ski Championships, which took place at the resort.  The couple also took in the view with a few glasses of bubbly - and posed for a sweet photograph in their eye-catching ski wear. It is not known whether their daughters Mia, six, and Lena, one, joined their parents on holiday.   Whistler, Canada  WHO: The Beckhams David Beckham treated fans to a peek at his half-term trip to Whistler, British Columbia, with his wife Victoria and their children, Brooklyn, 20, Romeo, 17, Cruz, 15, and Harper, eight, over the weekend. In a series of snaps posted to Instagram, the former footballer, 44, displayed his impressive skiing skills as he hit the slopes during a rare holiday alongside his whole brood, with even Romeo's girlfriend Mia Regen joining in on the festivities. The Inter Miami CF president and Posh Spice, 45, appeared in great spirits as they showed their youngest child the ropes of the snowy sport, before treating themselves to alcoholic beverages in their resort's cabin-inspired restaurant. Amid their skiing fun, David treated himself to some waffles with Canadian maple syrup and a can of Stella Artois as he enjoyed lunch at the top of a mountain alongside his lookalike son Cruz.   St Moritz, Switzerland  WHO: Princess Olympia of Greece Instagram It-Girl and globe-trotting socialite Princess Olympia of Greece, 23, has escaped to the glitzy resort of St Moritz with a group of friends. Among their number is Electra Niarchos and Alexia Mavroleon, of the Greek shipping dynasties. The blonde beauty has shared a number of photos from her break, revealing how she is balancing time on the slopes with extremely glamorous aprés ski. The most recent snap shows Olympia and her girlfriends, all dressed in red evening wear, posing in a dark-lit bar or club. Subsequent Instagram Stories show the group enjoying a high-spirited dinner in a restaurant.  The exclusive resort of St Moritz, which recently hosted the star-studded wedding of Dasha Zhukova and billionaire shipping magnate Stavros Niarchos, is a long-standing favourite with royalty and the mega-rich alike.    Kosovo  WHO: Instagram tastemaker Aureta Thomollari Known for her exceptional taste in fashion, interiors and holidays, Albanian social media star Aureta Thomollari, 38, known simply as 'Aureta' online, has used her influence to shine a light on the snowy slopes of Kosovo on Instagram.  Typically stylish, Aureta wore a vibrant blue Moncler jacket as she zoomed down a piste on a snowmobile.  Little else is known about the unorthodox choice of ski holiday destination, except what she shared in her caption: 'I would say this weekend has been extreme.'   Courchevel, France  WHO: Holly Willoughby Like many parents across the UK, Holly Willoughby made the most of the half-term break by taking her children on a family holiday. The TV star, 39, and husband Daniel Baldwin, 45, took Harry, 10, Belle, eight, and Chester, five, to the luxurious Six Senses Residence in Courchevel, France,  On Saturday she shared some snaps to Instagram from her luxurious ski break that showed her reclining back in a colourful wintry ensemble as she enjoyed her break. The This Morning presenter also showcased her impressive ski skills on the slopes, before being 'nutmegged' by son Chester, five - in which he skied between her legs while they were both headed down the slope.    However she was back in the UK in time for Dancing On Ice on Sunday evening. Rougemont and Gstaad, Switzerland WHO:  Prince Charles's goddaughter India Hicks and hotel heiress Irene Forte India Hicks, Prince Charles's goddaughter, also jetted off to Switzerland for a few days, spending time in Rougemont, considered to be one of the country's most beautiful villages.  The multi-talented socialite shared a couple of ski goggle selfies, as well as a photo of a beautiful table set for a large meal with loved ones. India, who closed her eponymous lifestyle brand last year, hosts a popular podcast with her mother, Lady Pamela Hicks, daughter of Prince Philip's beloved uncle Louis Mountbatten and the Queen's bridesmaid.   The mother-of-five might have brushed shoulders with another society figure: Irene Forte, skincare entrepreneur and daughter of hotel magnate Sir Rocco Forte.  Irene, who is engaged to long-term beau Felix Winckler, posted snaps from Gstaad - a short drive from Rougemont - and of her friends relaxing on the slopes.    
