{ By Kristy Johnson For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  11:55, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8037475/Married-Sight-fans-praise-Hayley-Vernons-best-friend-Bek.html }
Hayley Vernon and David Cannon's relationship turned sour on Monday night's episode when they bickered over their 'constant confrontations'. And during a family dinner with Hayley's father Eric and her best friend Bek, viewers praised Bek on Twitter for being the voice of reason. After Bek encouraged her pal to communicate more effectively with David, one fan posted online: 'Fire the experts and get Hayley's friend to run the whole show.'  'Bek is a good friend to have at that table,' shared another, while one also added: 'Hayley's friend seems really understanding, that's a nice quality to have.'   'I really love Hayley's family, they are so grounded and nice,' another said of Bek and Eric.  While at the dinner table, Bek encouraged 'sensitive' David, 31, to not take offence to Hayley's method of communicating. 'I know Hayley, I love her unconditionally, but I understand what he's saying when it comes to the way that you talk to him,' Bek told Hayley, 32. 'He sees it as you're talking down to him but you're actually not. She actually isn't. You just need the time to know her better, to know that's not how she is.' Hayley later admitted in a piece to camera that she realises her loud nature and 'fast pace' can look like she's trying to cut people off mid-sentence. 'I think that sometimes the way I go about things is there's a lot of noise,' she said. 'And David gets confused and baffled by my fast pace. Bek was able to break it down.' Footage then saw Bek at the dinner table urging David to not take Hayley's straight-talking nature to heart. 'You are a sensitive person, you need to take that in mind and I know that's hard for you,' she said.  The couple then agreed to be more considerate of one another and understand their different styles of communicating. Married At First Sight continues Tuesday at 7.30pm on Channel Nine 
