online
{ By Emilia Jiang For Mailonline   Published:  13:57, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8041921/Chinese-man-dons-astronaut-costume-extra-protection-coronavirus-outbreak.html }
A Chinese man has dressed up as an astronaut to protect himself from the coronavirus while going out shopping.  The man, known by his surname Li, purchased the £13 full-body costume online for 'extra protection' as the deadly disease sweeps through the country. He said: 'I thought the costume was adorable and it could protect me [from the virus]. 'I am wearing a face mask underneath as well. It's double protection,' added Mr Li from Fujian Province as he spoke to video news outlet Pear. The Chinese resident asked his friend to film a video of him donning the inflated outfit and cruising around his complex in the city of Sanming on a scooter. He received mixed reactions from other residents after sharing the video online. Mr Li did not explain how much he had spent on the apparel, but a similar costume costs 125 yuan (£13.6) on average on Chinese e-commerce site Taobao.  'Some people said it was cute, others joked they would try to deflate my costume when they see me,' Mr Li said. Health experts have warned these creative outfits would not protect people from the deadly disease. The public is advised to wear face masks and maintain good personal hygiene as basic measures against the coronavirus.  People in China have been scrambling to get hold of protective masks as the demand for them grows rapidly.  A Chinese woman has recently shown up at a hospital with a giraffe costume to avoid catching the novel coronavirus. She claimed she had to resort to the full-body outfit after failing to get hold of any face masks.   The novel coronavirus, officially known as COVID-19, has claimed at least 2,705 deaths and infected over 80,344 people globally.     Experts believe that the new coronavirus has been passed onto humans by wildlife sold as food, especially bats and snakes.  
