online
{ By This Is Money Reporter   Published:  10:45, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/smallbusiness/article-7999445/Does-retail-business-need-online-it.html }
Launching a start-up in today’s retail climate might seem a daunting prospect. When we think ‘retail’ we think of the high street, and with that, it’s easy to think of empty stores and closing down sales. According to the latest figures from the Office for National Statistics, the quantity bought in retail sales during the three months to December 2019 fell by 1 per cent when compared with the three months prior, while December itself was described as the high street’s worst Christmas on record. But being online can be a challenge too. The ease and reach of the internet – for both the seller and the customer – means competition is high and customers may get overwhelmed by choice, or even overlook a business with a quick swipe. So how you do know whether your business will succeed best online or in a store?   Ben Law, managing director of 123 Reg, highlighted cost as one of the biggest determining factors in whether a business owner chooses to operate from a physical location or via the internet. He says: ‘Of course this depends on the business proposition but being online is far cheaper than paying rent for a building and everything that goes inside it. ‘But then being in a store, especially when offering bespoke services such as personal shopping, or things to make the customer's shopping experience hassle-free such as a children’s play area are the types of things that can gain loyal customers.' He adds that while having an online presence can also be great for driving loyalty and trust in a business - as three-quarters of customers will do their research online before visiting or making a purchase from a vendor - it also has the power to taint it before a customer has even considered it. 'Online is where a business can really make sure they are starting and steering the conversations they want and to make sure they look trustworthy,' he adds.  'Having a website with up to date content and a social media feed that is active can accelerate the decision from a customer to trust you and give you legitimacy.   'Not having that online persona is immediately eroding a presence of trust and alienating traffic. And having a stagnant website can be even more damaging.' If an entrepreneur decides to start a Facebook page for its business for example, it's important to keep it updated and looking fresh. A lack of activity can give the impression of not doing well, not caring or even not existing anymore. Meanwhile, reviews are also critical for gaining and maintaining trust online. Law says: 'They are the online version of traditional word of mouth recommendations – you can even find people with verified transactions.  'It’s hugely important for businesses to manage and curate their reviews and having them back by a trusted review partner. As a small business owner in particular, it is important to respond to reviews to show that you are active and engaged but also transparent.'  Ultimately, he believes having an online presence, be that via a website or a social media channel or two, regardless of whether you operate from a physical location, can be extremely beneficial. ‘It is a contentious issue as it largely depends on the business proposition. A coffee shop for example, can’t be solely online. ‘So it makes sense for owners to spend most of their time, effort and cost into finding the right premises and working on the interior design – because that’s what’s important for a business like that. ‘But an online presence is still key in terms of building pre-awareness. Say a potential customer searches “coffee near me” on their phone; they’re most likely to go to the nearest place. A business will obviously increase their chances of gaining that custom if they have an online presence.’ In the fast-paced world of the internet, people are also more likely to try something new online.  'Seeing an independent cafe nearby looks more enticing than going to yet another coffee chain,' Law adds. There is an abundant supply of social media platforms, most of which offer services especially for businesses to boost their brand.  Facebook Marketplace for example, is used in more than 70 different countries by more than 800 million people each month, as of May 2018. Meanwhile, a report by Hootsuite revealed  62 per cent of Instagram users say they have become more interested in a brand or product after seeing it in their 'stories' while 130 million users tap on shopping posts every month. Law says there is no harm in having a presence on all the channels but it is worth focusing on the one channel to begin with, especially if that one is receiving the most engagement and interaction. He adds: 'Again, this depends on the business proposition but we know customers are online and when they are not searching online, they're scrolling through their social channels. 'Analytics can also help to understand what is working and which products or services are gaining the most interest rather than just what is selling as you'd only be able to monitor in a store.'  
