{ By Alice Murphy For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  09:17, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8035801/Indian-tech-company-Wellnesys-launches-YogiFi-worlds-smart-yoga-mat.html }
The world's first interactive yoga mat which promises to reduce back pain, ease anxiety and help you lose weight has launched in Australia. YogiFi, a 'smart' exercise mat created by Indian technology company Wellnesys, is made with pressure sensors which record and provide real-time feedback on your posture, strength and flexibility to help you improve as you work out. The mat connects to a free mobile app which is loaded with different styles of yoga classes designed to alleviate health issues like back pain, hypertension, anxiety, arthritis and obesity. Hailed as the 'FitBit of the yoga industry' by the Hindu Times, the mat costs AUD $605 and is now available for pre-order with shipping starting in early May 2020. Made from a blend of foam and rubber, the mat looks much like any other - but comes with a built-in stand for phones or tablets which communicates with the app over Bluetooth. It's suitable for people of all ages, fitness levels and physical abilities and comes in five stylish colours, purple, grey, turquoise, mustard and blush pink. As well as phones, it can also be linked to smart watches including Apple and FitBit and home assistants like Google Home and Amazon Alexa. Users can compare their strength and flexibility stats with one another and compete in 'motivation challenges' on the app. The mat has a silent mode which turns off real-time instructions but continues to track your progress, meaning it can be used at the yoga studio as well as using it in the comfort of your own home.  - Every programme on the platform is like a real yoga class, with an online teacher guiding you step-by-step through postures in real time. - Built-in technology tracks your posture and records progress in strength and flexibility. - The mat can be used indoors or outdoors and comes with a rechargeable battery. - It can be connected to iPhones or Android devices, smart watches, FitBit and smart home assistants like Google Home and Amazon Alexa. - The mat comes with a session planner and access to dozens of classes of different styles of yoga, including Hatha, Sivananda, Iyengar and Patanjali. - It can is suitable for people of all ages, fitness levels and physical abilities. Source: Yogifi Wellnesys founder Muralidhar Somisetty was inspired to create the interactive mat after suffering years of niggling back pain and hypertension, which disappeared after he started practicing yoga. 'Even if you follow a particular teacher, there are times you miss out on going to the studio,' Mr Somisetty told the Hindu Times. 'The mat will help you keep in touch with your teacher, who can track your progress through a dashboard available to them.' 
