{ By Jo Scrimshire For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  08:19, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8036903/Quaden-Bayles-age-Rebecca-Judd-blasts-cruel-conspiracy-theory.html }
Rebecca Judd has blasted Internet trolls peddling a false conspiracy theory that bullied nine-year-old schoolboy Quaden Bayles is actually 18. The footy WAG, 36, said on The 3pm Pick-Up on Monday that fake news surrounding Quaden's age was a symptom of 'cancel culture'.  'Cancel culture really is an epidemic. Something bad happens to you, so you're the victim and then you get all this money raised and all this attention, and then it's almost like the Internet turns on you and you become a villain again,' she said. Scroll down for video  'They [the Bayles family] have been criticised for faking his age, saying he's 18. He's not 18! He's nine.' Rebecca's co-host Katie 'Monty' Dimond added that Hayden's mother, Yarraka, has been forced to delete photos of her son from Instagram and turn off comments because of the 'brutal' backlash. 'When I saw all of these negative stories start to come out, I just thought, "Far out, people are cruel." Get off the Internet!' Rebecca concluded. In the past week, false rumours have spread online that Quaden is actually an adult. One post circulating on Twitter claimed his high-profile Instagram page and modelling career were proof he'd 'scammed everybody'. The accuser also pointed to a photo of Quaden at a friend's 18th birthday party in January, saying the celebrations were for him. (They weren't.) Yarraka Bayles hit out at the claims as they gathered pace on social media, sharing a post from someone who knew Quaden from before his viral video. 1. He was at his friend's 18th birthday - not his own - in January 2. His modelling profile, which may not have been updated, says he is eight years old 3. He appeared on TV toothless and playing with toys as a four year old 4. A photo of him purportedly drinking alcohol has been cropped to remove the Appletiser beside him 5. A baby photo from 2010 shows him at 16 days old 'He's nine! Dwarfism is not a joke, is he a model or actor?' the Facebook post read. 'So are a lot of kids… That doesn't mean s**t!' Others have also jumped to Quaden's defence over the birthday post, saying he was actually attending an older friend's party. Meanwhile, one Instagram photo of the Brisbane boy had been subtly cropped by his accusers to make it appear he was drinking wine with his mother. In fact, a bottle of Appletiser was sitting on a table next to him, proving his beverage was non-alcoholic sparkling apple juice. Quaden has also appeared on television as a four-year-old, sitting on his mother's lap playing with toys in an interview with Studio 10 in 2015. Looking further back, Ms Bayles shared a picture of her son's sixth birthday cake in December 2016, and in 2010 celebrated Quaden turning 16 days old. The rumours about his age have been accompanied in recent days by trolls creating social media accounts in an attempt to profit from his bullying. Last week, Quaden's mother shared a distressing viral video of her son - who has achondroplasia, the most common type of dwarfism - saying he'd rather kill himself than face school bullies again. He pleaded: 'Give me a rope, I want to kill myself. I just want to stab myself in the heart... I want someone to kill me. I want to die... I want to scratch myself.' Ms Bayles shared the video publicly on Facebook in a bid to raise awareness of the consequences of bullying. It has since been shared millions of times. She said she normally tries to keep distressing moments such as this private, but felt she had been left with no choice but to go public.  At the start of the five-minute clip, Ms Bayles said: 'I just picked my son up from school, witnessed a bullying episode, rang the principal and I want people to know this is the effect bullying has. This is what bullying does. 'So can you please educate your children, your families, your friends because all it takes is one more instance... and you wonder why kids are killing themselves.' For confidential support call the Lifeline 24-hour crisis support on 13 11 14    
