online
{ By Candice Jackson For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:35, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8036593/Former-MAFS-star-Tracey-Jewel-reveals-manipulative-tricks-producers-use.html }
Former Married At First Sight star Tracey Jewel has blasted Nine's producers for allegedly using 'manipulative' tricks to prevent her from quitting the 2018 season. Tracey was trolled online after continuing her relationship with TV husband Dean Wells in the experiment, despite his 'affair' with co-star Davina Rankin. Appearing on News.com.au's Not Here To Make Friends podcast on Sunday, Tracey claimed she was 'coerced' to 'stay' longer than she wanted. 'Behind the scenes, truth be told, I was pressured like Poppy [2020 contestant Poppy Jennings] and other contestants to stay as well. I was manipulated,' she claimed. Single mother Poppy left the series abruptly, refusing to say goodbye to TV husband Luke Eglin or attend the couple's second commitment ceremony. 'I really feel for Poppy because they (producers) manipulate us,' Tracey alleged. Of her own experience on the show, Tracey said producers used multiple tactics to persuade her to stay longer than she wanted. 'You just kind of get coerced down this little road based on them telling you, "Oh, if you leave now it’s just going to look bad on you, you’re going to look like the bad one" – and no one wants to be the bad one,' she explained to the podcast panel. She went on to say that to build emotion among the cast, dinner parties can often run until the early hours of the morning, and newlyweds are separated before dramatic commitment ceremonies. 'You’re all separated before [a commitment ceremony], so you can’t talk to each other, and they isolate you so you’re stuck with your thoughts wondering if the other person’s gonna say ‘leave or stay’ for hours before you get into that room,' she said. She went on to say that when major things happen or get addressed in the commitment ceremony, producers don't allow stars to change what they've written.   Married At First Sight continues Monday at 7.30pm on Nine 
