{ By Sophie Haslett For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  04:41, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8036573/Mum-shares-simple-recipe-miniature-shepherds-pies-Kmart-air-fryer.html }
A mother has impressed the internet after she prepared miniature shepherd's pies in her Kmart air fryer - and the delicious dinner only requires a few simple steps to put together. The woman posted on Facebook, where she revealed her recipe for the mini shepherd's pies - and all you need is the $69 Kmart 3-in-1 Air Fryer and a few ingredients. 'We made a heap of the pies for dinner tonight,' Kirsty wrote on Facebook. 'My seven-year-old who loves normal shepherd's pie initially screwed up his nose and said "I'm not eating that". We always tell our kids to try new things first and he promptly ate three, and is hoping to have leftovers for lunch tomorrow.' To make the mini shepherd's pies, Kirsty said she first of all made the 'mince mix and mashed potato as normal'. 'I spooned the mix into the taco boats, and then popped them in the Air Fryer for 10 minutes,' Kirsty said.  'The boats came out slightly crunchy and nicely brown on top, they were so yum.  'I already have plans of trying other toppings and fillings,' she continued. A packet of mini tortillas from Woolworths will set you back $4.80, while grated cheese can be added to the top of the mash to make the pies even tastier. When she shared her recipe online, people were quick to congratulate Kirsty's meal idea saying it looks 'delicious'.  'Thank you for the dinner idea. A hit in this household. Even the picky four year old loved it,' one mum posted. Others suggested their own variations on the recipe. Mac and cheese boats with bacon bits on top would be amazing,' one person posted. 'I do salmon with a cream/egg mixture and cheese on top,' another added.  Others said mini lasagne and quiches make perfect lunchbox meals. 'I've made a giant batch of the filling in the slow cooker and freezer it in portions for quick dinners,' one woman posted.  'All I will have to do is scoop into boats and top with mash and cheese and cook in air fryer for six minutes on busy weeknights.  
