online
{ By Harry Wise For This Is Money    Published:  13:33, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/news/article-8042121/HSBC-close-two-dozen-stores-customers-online.html }
Britain's largest bank HSBC has announced it is to close 27 branches this year as online banking continues to take over. Up to 46 jobs will be put at risk by the closures, which include branches in Bristol, Bedminster, Wallasey, and London's Kensington High Street.  The majority of closures will take place in July with further shutdowns later in the year in places such as London's Regent Street, Thetford and Cheltenham. Some £34million will be invested in its remaining 594 nationwide branches though, including installing the latest technology, with refurbishment occurring in 49 of them.  Stuart Haire, HSBC UK's head of retail banking and wealth management, said the way people bank today has made the changes necessary:  'Retaining a sustainable branch network is extremely important to us and we need to ensure it is fit for the future.  July 2020 Bristol, Bedminster, Leigh-on-Sea, London Park Royal, Chingford, Swindon Old Town, Kensington High Street, Blaby, Peterlee, Leigh, Bradshawgate, Chard, Wallasey, Royston, Pudsey, Croydon, Wellesley Road, Saffron Walden, Tiverton, Ely, Pembroke Other closures closing later in 2020 London Greenwich, London Regent Street, Redhill, Thetford, Sheffield Broomhill, Bourne, Cheltenham Bath Road, Coventry Corporation Street, Heswall He adds: 'But, the way our customers bank with us has changed significantly over the last five to ten years, and that change is something we cannot ignore.'  HSBC says over 90 per cent of its customers now use their services online or via a telephone, while fewer than one per cent of all cash withdrawals take place inside an HSBC branch.   More people are also interacting with the firm on social media, HSBC say, with more than 85,000 interactions in the last year.  'The upshot is that significantly fewer people are using our branches' he adds. 'The decision to close these branches will help to ensure a sustainable branch network for the future and allow us to continue to invest in it, as illustrated by the improvement to 49 branches in 2020, along with the continuing investments in our people and digital platforms.' Six sites will shut their doors on 3 July, including the Kensington High Street and Bristol Bedminster branches, followed by seven the following week and five at the end of the month. HSBC customers will be able to bank in Post Office branches across the country.  The move to online banking has become increasingly the norm in the last few years. TSB declared in November that it would close 82 branches in 2020 as it expects more of its customers to use its online services. Lloyds Banking Group has already closed 220 bank branches in the previous couple of years and are expecting to shut another 56 between April and October. HSBC has closed 444 branches in five years and these latest closures will mean its network would have almost halved since 2015.   Mr Haire added: 'Almost every industry is affected by similar behavioural change and needs to work hard to address that - newspapers used to be delivered by paper boys and girls, or a paper would be collected from a shop, and now most people consume their news online. 'Photographs that were once processed in a shop have now been replaced with digital cameras and online delivery.' A House of Commons report published at the beginning of the year though warned that the rural population, the disabled and the elderly are most affected by branch closures as they are least likely to bank online.  It read: 'Around 10 per cent of the rural population now lives at least 10 miles away from their bank's nearest branch.  This creates significant challenges for the disabled and elderly who are less able to move to online banking.  'The Financial Conduct Authority raised concerns that this may be contributing to these groups' financial exclusion.'  The report further stated that small businesses which rely on local branches for their banking would be negatively impacted, as would 'the long term viability of the cash system.'  
