online
{ By Eliza Mcphee For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:43, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8033439/McDonalds-denies-shrinking-cheeseburgers-Kelloggs-say-Pringles-slightly-smaller.html }
McDonald's has denied accusations from an outraged customer that it shrunk the size of its cheeseburger - but it has altered the shape of the bun. A disgruntled customer photographed one that he claims was barely bigger than his thumb and likened its size to that of a cookie. The fast food giant has been accused of shrinking its burgers over the years, but told Daily Mail Australia they've never changed the meat patty. A spokesman said as part of the innovation and investment process, they recently changed the cheeseburger bun.  'The overall weight of our burgers remains unchanged... The new bun is the same weight, with slightly different proportions.  'We haven't changed the size of our beef patty since the first McDonald's restaurant opened in Australia in 1971. We still use 100% Aussie beef patties that our customers know and love,' the statement read. Kelloggs too has been forced to defend itself from similar allegations, after multiple consumers complained that Pringles had been shrunk. One customer said the recipe had not only changed, but each chip itself was now barely bigger than a 50cent coin. A Kelloggs spokesman told Daily Mail Australia there had been a slight adjustment made in 2014 to suit manufacturing demands. 'Back in 2016, we relocated the production of Pringles for the Australian marketplace to our plant in Malaysia, matching the size of their cans,' the spokesman said. 'This was a change from 150g size cans to 134g cans. No further changes have been made since then.' Despite both companies insisting the products were almost exactly the same as what consumers have known and loved for years, some members of the public are unsatisfied with the change.  Photos of both the 'thumb-sized cheeseburger' and the Pringle were uploaded to Reddit alongside complaints.  'Haven't been to maccas in a while, cheeseburgers are cookie sized now?!' the original cheeseburger photo was captioned.   But burger lovers confessed the 'shrinking' cheeseburgers simply meant they had to purchase more food.    'My secret shame is that for my once yearly journey to Macca's I buy not one, but two Cheese burgers due to this indignity,' someone commented. 'Oh man. I haven't seen one of these in 15 years. That's easily half the size,' one person said.  Most of the responses to the photo of the Pringles indicated customers had stopped buying the brand and switched to a cheaper, home brand alternative.  Others weighed in saying they had noticed a decrease in other burgers on the McDonald's menu. 'I noticed that too with a quarter pounder I had the other day,' another wrote. 'I remember when the fillet o fish had a full piece of cheese. They used to be bigger also I am sure,' a third commented. In recent years, people have speculated the burgers have become increasingly smaller. In November 2018 a spokesperson for the company denied any changes.  'The Big Mac has not changed in size,' she previously told Daily Mail Australia. 'In fact, it has not changed in weight, height or diameter. The only change we have made is making the packaging slightly smaller.' But even after the claims, customers were unconvinced, adding the Big Macs had also appeared to be smaller.  'Are McDonald's Big Macs getting smaller? Have not had one for over a year and I swear it was smaller,' complained one woman online. 'Either Big Macs have gotten smaller or my hands have gotten bigger,' added another.  
