{ By Sophie Haslett For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  00:17, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8035957/The-25-shampoo-conditioner-voted-BEST-Australia-thousands-women.html }
Beauty lovers in their thousands have voted for the top shampoo and conditioner in the country, crowning two $25.95 products the winners.  Muk Haircare's Deep muk Ultra Soft Shampoo ($25.95) and Muk Haircare's Deep muk Ultra Soft Conditioner ($25.95) beat out competition from hundreds of other products to be crowned the best in Australia.  Beauty Heaven's annual Best in Beauty awards report that both have an average rating of four stars - with hundreds of women crediting the hair products with transforming their dry and lacklustre locks. 'This smells amazing, and makes your hair feel a million bucks,' one reviewer posted. 'My thick, blonde and wavy hair needs a deep scrub on hair wash days. And usually after shampooing, my hair is knotty and matted. 'Deep muk leaves my hair feeling amazing and smooth. Its thick formula means you need less, which is amazing for gals with long thick hair that washes twice. 'Team it up with its partner in crime and you will be swishing your hair around like a goddess!' Another woman who has tried the duo said it 'does what it says' and is a 'top quality' shampoo and conditioner. 'This is a must-have miracle conditioner, she said. 'Hair is left feeling softer, bouncy, airy, easier to de-tangle and nourished without being weighed down.' Others have shared photos on Instagram of their hair after using the products, showing how visibly soft and silky it is after shampoo and conditioning. According to product description online, the shampoo and conditioner both seek to de-tangle your hair and replace lost nutrients and moisture to leave it soft and shiny. Both products are both suitable for all hair types, 'including dry, brittle, chemically treated, damaged and bonded hair extensions'. 'The shampoo and conditioner are gentle enough for everyday use,' Muk suggests. 'Deep muk Ultra Soft Conditioner works to de-tangle, soften, and infuse hair with shine, while the gardenia fragrance leaves hair subtly scented.'   Women who have tried it say the products are suitable for all hair types, including coloured hair. The runner-up shampoo and conditioner was OGX's Purifying + Charcoal Detox Conditioner and OGX's Purifying + Charcoal Detox Shampoo. 
