online
{ By Leigh Mcmanus For Mailonline   Published:  13:29, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8042177/Shocking-images-womans-horror-facial-injuries-bottled-group-youngsters.html }
Horrific images show the facial injuries suffered by a woman who was bottled after she complained about youths' driving. Saoirse Smith lost her two front teeth and suffered permanent scarring after a litre bottle was thrown at her face. Saoirse, from Derry, had complained about youngsters driving like 'maniacs' in the part of the city where she lives. Her partner, Hollie Semple, posted the images online, writing: 'Myself and Saoirse were attacked by a group of four or five fellas and a girl after confronting them for almost crashing into us twice and then driving like absolute maniacs in a built up area full of children. 'They were driving at speed on the paths where children play (including our nephews). After confronting these scumbags I was attacked and then suddenly they all were on to me, punching, kicking, pulling my hair, spitting.' She added: 'They turned on Saoirse after she tried to break it up. After finally being able to escape back to the car. We attempted to drive away but we were blocked by their car. 'They got out and started kicking, punching the car. They smashed the passenger window with their foot and threw a litre bottle of alcohol directly at Saoirse's face.' Hollie said the thugs continued to try to attack them even after they drove to Saoirse's sister's house. 'Only when they saw the damage they had done to her face [they] fled,' she wrote. 'Saoirse has suffered serious damage to her mouth and chin. She has lost her two front teeth. She is going to be left with permanent scarring because these vermin think it's acceptable to do this to somebody.' Brónagh Hegarty wrote under Hollie's post saying: 'The predators that are running around our society are not scared of the law nor scared of the men in the furry masks. Derry is an absolute s*** hole. CJ Gita Simms said: 'OMFG. Pack of f****** animals. Speedy recovery Girls and hopefully they get caught. Hannah McMenamin added: 'Oh my god that is f****** disgusting. Sending my love Hollie Semple - what a bunch of cowardly scum'. Tanya Merchant commented: 'Disgusting, vile, animals without respect for others. Hopefully you get justice and a speedy recovery soon godbless'. The PSNI said three people had been arrested in connection with the incident, which happened on Saturday. They said two males, aged 17 and 19, and a 20-year-old female remain in custody. The force said it wanted to hear from anyone with information about the incident.   
