{ By Sophie Haslett For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  22:46, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8035609/The-Sunday-meal-prep-trick-CHANGE-week.html }
A woman has shared her meal prep trick, which means she never has to eat the same lunch twice during the working week. Posting on Reddit, the anonymous woman said she and her friends all meal prep one dish on Sundays and then they get together and exchange dinners. 'Meal prep swap - how to avoid eating the same thing six days in a row,' the woman wrote. 'A few friends and I got together and exchanged our meals for the week. All vegetarian!' She accompanied her post with a picture of the six pre-made meals. They included a bean salad, rice and vegetables, curry and vegetable bolognese. Other people online flooded the post with praise, thanking the woman for revealing how it's possible to avoid getting sick of your rice, chicken and vegetables combination by Wednesday. 'Love this idea! Too bad none of my friends cook, far less meal prep!' one person wrote. 'That is actually a really great idea. I might have to start convincing my lunch buddies to do this,' another added.  While most were on board with the idea, some said that it doesn't suit if your friends have different dietary requirements. 'It's all great till one friend is a raw vegan, one friend doesn't eat onions or garlic, one friend can't have carbs or gluten, one friend exclusively eats meat, and the last friend is lactose intolerant,' one person wrote. Others suggested you could do it with fewer friends and fewer meals, or even set up a swap group on Facebook.  * Have a plan and decide what to make before you cook. * Choose recipes that don't require too many ingredients or cooking techniques.  * Avoid all recipes that have more than 20 steps and require six ingredients you've never heard of. * Start slow and only prep the meals you struggle with most. There is no need to prep every single meal for the week ahead of time. * Fill up your pantry with staples and homebrand products. * Keep an eye on supermarket specials and catalogue deals and theme your meal preps around these.  * Bulk out meals with extra vegetables and rice.  * Prep snacks to stop you having to buy things on the go.  * If you don't fancy cooking, whip up a no-cook meal prep.  This isn't the first time that people have shared their meal prep tips and tricks for making the week that much easier.  Previously, Sydney-based teacher Katie Lolas, 32, shared how she saves thousands of dollars each year by preparing her meals.   Katie said the best way to prep yourself for any meal prepping session is to fill up your pantry with staples and homebrand products. 'I purchase the majority of my staples like brown rice, quinoa, black beans and chickpeas from Aldi or opt for a Homebrand Woolies or Coles version,' she said. 'The quality, taste and nutritional value is always on par with the more expensive brands, so why not grab the less expensive option? Keeping your pantry stocked at all times is great too because you can create quick and easy meals using ingredients that you already have.' Katie said things like hummus, casseroles and soups are easy to make out of long-life ingredients - and it also saves you a lot of money. The 32-year-old also recommends you plan your prepping around potential sales and offers in the supermarket. For instance, if there is chicken on a deal, you might make chicken soup or chicken enchiladas. Additionally, pick the fruit and veg that are in season and therefore on deal to keep costs down. 'Make meals stretch by adding extra veggies and rice,' Katie said. This is a cost-effective way to eat healthily on a budget. 
