online
{ By Jo Scrimshire For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  21:50, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8035705/Sunrise-David-Koch-bizarre-air-confession-erectile-dysfunction.html }
David Koch wants everybody to know that he doesn't have erectile dysfunction. The 63-year-old Sunrise presenter issued the bizarre clarification on Monday, after a segment about cybercrime and Facebook fraudsters. David - who has unwittingly been used as the 'face' of several online scams in the past - said: 'Another warning, we don't promote anything on Facebook. So if you ever see an ad for Bitcoin from me or erectile dysfunction creams, that's not me.' David's co-host Natalie Barr started laughing and said the erectile dysfunction scams were 'a little bit funny', prompting him to set the record straight. 'Let me clarify,' he announced. 'It's all good down there!' The Sunrise panel burst into fits of giggles at his cheeky remark, with Natalie covering her face with embarrassment. Natalie then insisted she was 'not doubting' David's virility, despite the fact erectile dysfunction is a common ailment among men in their sixties. 'I just wanted to set the record straight,' the finance journalist replied, before sports reporter Mark Beretta added: 'Good on you.' It comes after David revealed in June last year that he and his wife, Libby Koch, had been caught up in a Bitcoin investment scam. He wrote on social media: 'SCAM WARNING; ANY STORY OR ADVERTISEMENT CLAIMING WE RECOMMEND BITCOIN AS AN INVESTMENT IS A SCAM. 'It is driving us crazy the con artists using Libby and I as bait to lure people into investing in Bitcoin. Facebook are doing their best to take them down but then they pop back up using different offshore servers.' In September 2018, David distanced himself from fraudulent online adverts promoting erectile dysfunction treatment. He warned his Twitter followers: 'For those who might be tempted... be warned the erectile dysfunction advertisements doing the rounds online using my image are fake.' 
