online
{ By Jack Elsom For Mailonline   Published:  21:39, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8035613/Piers-Morgan-reveals-private-message-Caroline-Flack-sent-Jameela-Jamil.html }
Piers Morgan has released old messages sent to him by Caroline Flack, who confided she was 'struggling' with Jameela Jamil 'aiming hate' at her.   The October 22 messages from the late Love Island presenter read: 'Please have pictures... I'm struggling with Jameela. The hate she aims at me.'   The Good Morning Britain presenter shared the conversation to call out 'breathtaking hypocrisy' after he came under fire from Jamil in the wake of Flack's death. Morgan tweeted: 'Jameela Jamil is having a lot to say about online harassment, so in the interests of balance, here is a message Caroline Flack sent me last October after the same Jameela Jamil led an online pile-on against her regarding a new TV show she was doing.'  Last autumn, Jamil publicly criticised a trailed Channel 4 programme to be fronted by Flack called The Surjury, where a panel decides if a member of the public should receive plastic surgery. Tonight, she lashed out at Morgan and defended those comments, tweeting: 'I simply said I found the show 'surjury' (not her) problematic for kids to watch.    'And that love island needed some more diversity. Both times Caroline instigated debate with ME even though I was not targeting or blaming her at all. I always just politely explained my point. 'Piers Using a dead woman who I was friends with, as a weapon to try to create further harassment for me as I've JUST explained publicly that last week I felt suicidal... is why he is this industry's most problematic. My criticizing a *show* did not aim any hate at Caroline.'  Jamil had branded The Surjury, which has since been pulled by Channel 4, a 'new low.' At the time, Flack responded: 'Have you managed to see a copy before me? Please forward .. am desperate to see..' Morgan and Jamil have a long-running Twitter feud, which has reached a crescendo in the last week following the 40-year-old presenter's death. On Monday, the activist launched a stinging attack on Morgan before blocking him.  She tweeted: 'He's using his platform ONLY to perpetuate the hateful emotional violence that leads to the nervous breakdown of young, vulnerable people.'   The GMB co-host responded this evening by sharing the conversation while insisting 'breathtaking hypocrites' needed to be 'called out'.  Tonight's tweet has racked up over 12,000 likes and been shared more than 2,000 times.  Following Flack's death, many people have lined up to condemn the hate fostered by social media. The #BeKind hashtag has been trending, but Morgan also took aim at people he accused of 'pretending to care'. He tweeted: 'Where was #BeKind social media when Caroline was alive & going through the worst time of her life? 'She got destroyed on here for weeks, by many of the people I now see pretending to care about her & demanding a 'kinder' Twitter/Media. It's such hypocritical bulls***.  Morgan and Jamil's row boiled over on the night of the Love Island final, which saw Paige Turley and Finley Tapp crowned winners at the end of an emotional episode. Host Laura Whitmore paid a heartfelt tribute to Flack, who was found dead at her rented flat last Saturday after taking her own life. Whitmore said on tonight's finale from the Capetown villa: 'The past week has been extremely difficult coming to terms with the loss of our friend and colleague Caroline. We're thinking of her family and everyone who knew her at this time.  'Caroline loved Love Island, she loved love and that's why tonight's final is dedicated to her.' A montage of Flack's most memorable moments from the show she hosted from 2015 to 2019 then followed with a backing track of Rudimental's 'Feel the Love.'   
