online
{ By Milly Vincent For Mailonline   Published:  20:24, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8035413/Former-Love-Island-contestants-Francesca-Allen-Maria-Wild-Marvin-Brooks-enjoy-reunion.html }
Former Love Island stars enjoyed a night out on the town as they reunited ahead of this season's finale on Sunday.   Islanders Francesca Allen, 24, Maria Wild, 22, Marvin Brooks, 30, were spotted walking along arm in arm as they stepped out for a drink at The Prince pub in London's Chelsea. Looking thrilled to be back in the presence of her fellow TV stars Francesca cut a casual but chic frame in an all brown outfit of ribbed flares, a Fendi crop top and leather biker jacket. The star paired the look with a tan leather bag and her favourite chunky white trainers along with large bamboo shaped gold hoops. Meanwhile her Casa Amore co-star Maria Wild wore a classic blue jean and white tee combination along with a dappled grey jacket which she draped over her shoulders. Maria pared the glam but put-together look with a bouncing blow dry and a pair of white leather stiletto booties. Marvin Brooks kept it simple in an all black outfit, sporting ripped jeans, a plain tee and a pair of converse.  The glam group took to Instagram to announce that they were celebrating Francesca's launch of her In The Style edit. Since leaving Love Island in July Francesca has become recognised for her love of vintage fashion, with the star landing her very own collection. As well as owning her own Essex boutique and online store Bonnie & Clyde with her sister Claudia Allen, Francesca has launched multiple collections with In The Style alongside Anna, Amy Hart, Yewande Biala and Joanna Chimonides. However, Francesca claims that while going on the ITV2 dating show has boosted her profile on the fashion front, it's actually hindered her chances of getting a boyfriend, despite her initially signing up to the series to find love. While her co-star Maria, who was part of the 2019 series of Casa Amor bombshells, has been spending her time attending influencer events and working on her social media presence.   Marvin Brooks, from Bornemouth, has returned to work as a personal trainer and fitness influencer.   He is also a current player on Poole Town FC first team.   
