{ By Glenn Garner For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:24, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8035175/Jada-Pinkett-Smith-confronts-Snoop-Dogg-attack-Gayle-King.html }
Jada Pinkett Smith confronted Snoop Dogg over how he publicly berated Gayle King after she dredged up Kobe Bryant's rape allegations in the wake of the basketball star's death.   Snoop, a close fan of Bryant's, shocked fans when he lashed out at CBS This Morning host Gayle King after a segment of an interview about the late basketball star and his rape trial was taken out of context earlier this month. In a since-deleted video, Snoop called King  a 'funky, dog-haired b****' and demanded she 'back off before we come get you'. He later apologized to King, and she accepted.  But he was forced to face his words again when Smith brought up the ordeal in an upcoming episode of Red Table Talk, telling the rapper how disappointed she was in his treatment of King.   In a clip from the interview, which airs February 26, Smith says: 'When you first came out and you said what you said, you know in regards to Gayle, my heart dropped.  'I felt like not only were you talking to Gayle, but you were talking to me. I was like, "Oh no, Snoop has now taken his power flow away from me, away from Willow, away from my mother." Right?' She continued: 'I was like…if this is what’s happening..I was like, not Snoop! That’s one of the reasons I felt like I really wanted to have the conversation with you in the spirit of healing.' King recently faced backlash when a clip from her CBS This Morning interview with WNBA star Lisa Leslie was posted online. In the video, she brought up the 2003 sexual assault case against Bryant, which was ultimately settled out of court when Bryant released a public apology. She's since said she felt 'mortified' by the clip, which was edited by CBS without the full context: 'I know that if I had only seen the clip that you saw, I’d be extremely angry with me too.' Snoop responded in a now-deleted video: 'Why y'all attacking us? We your people. You ain't coming after f***ing Harvey Weinstein, asking them dumba** questions. I get sick of y'all.' But the I Wanna Thank Me artist has since released an apology video for the way he reacted. He said: 'I should have handled it way different than that. I was raised way better than that. So, I would like to apologize to you publicly.' Kobe Bryant and 13-year-old daughter Gianna were among nine who died last month in a helicopter crash in Calabasas, California. 
