online
{ By William Cole For Mailonline   Published:  19:18, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8035197/Jennifer-Saunders-enjoys-quality-time-grandchildren-premiere-Onwards.html }
She has cut down on the film projects she chooses to work on in order to spend more time with her growing family. And Jennifer Saunders looked delighted to be getting some quality time with her grandchildren as she attended the premiere of animated adventure Onward at The Curzon Mayfair on Sunday. The actress, 61, beamed with pride as she arrived for the screening with grandson Fred, seven, Albert, six, and granddaughter Ivy, three. The Absolutely Fabulous star dressed for comfort in a dark brown corduroy overcoat and black rollneck jumper. She completed the fashionable look with a pair of white trainers with silver detailing.  Jennifer brought her dapper-looking grandchildren in for a huddle on the event's blue carpet in front of a set of comic signs. Also at the high-profile premiere was film's star Tom Holland, who looked dapper in a dark blue suit and grey crew-neck top. The Spiderman star, 23, has been leading the film's promotional tour alongside co-star and fellow Avenger Chris Pratt, and stopped to take selfies with fans and sign autographs. 'It’s just really nice to have him in my corner,' Tom told Variety. 'He’s someone that I really look up to and someone that I really appreciate. And I’m glad that we’re good buddies.' Chris added: 'I love Tom. It’s the most fun I’ve had since ‘Avengers.’ He’s a great kid and, in a way, I do look at him as a brother, so it’s apropos that we are playing brothers in the film.'  In the animated fantasy adventure, the pair play teenage elf brothers, Ian and Barley Lightfoot, who go on an journey to attempt to spend one day with their father, who died when they were too young to remember him. Also on the red carpet was X Factor's Tallia Storm, who wowed in a faux-fur coat over a sleeveless metallic blue jacket and matching trousers. She completed the eccentric bold ensemble with zebra-patterned platform heels, and wore her frizzy locks in long layers. Love Island's Eyal Booker and reality stars Miles Nazaire and Jack Maynard were also in attendance, going with more casual attire. The film will also feature Disney's first openly gay animated character, a self-identified lesbian Cyclops cop, Officer Specter, voiced by Master Of None actress Lena Waithe. Kori Rae, a producer of the film, told Yahoo Entertainment that Officer Specter's LGBTQ identity came about organically. In the film she also references an off-screen girlfriend, though she is never seen, as Specter is only in one scene of the film. 'It just kind of happened,' Rae said.  'The scene, when we wrote it, was kind of fitting and it opens up the world a little bit, and that’s what we wanted.'  Dan Scanlon added: 'It’s a modern fantasy world and we want to represent the modern world.'  The character, though brief, is a big step for Pixar and Disney. In recent years, Disney has had similar brief appearances of LGBTQ characters and couples.  Star Wars: Rise of the Skywalker featured the first same-sex kiss in the history of Star Wars, one character in Avengers: Endgame referenced his lost male partner and the recent Toy Story 4 featured what appeared to be a same-sex couple in the background of a scene.  Officer Specter makes the first direct reference to an LGBTQ identity ever in a Pixar film and is another in a line of similar references across Disney's studios.  Disney plans to continue showing LGTBQ characters on screen with their upcoming blockbuster The Eternals, that will feature Marvel's first on-screen same-sex couple and first same-sex kiss. Waithe is an openly gay screen writer and producer, fans online praised the off to on-screen representation. She was the first black woman to win an Emmy for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series, for an episode based on her own coming out story. 
