online
{ By Niomi Harris For Mailonline   Published:  14:59, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8034871/Corries-Alan-Halsall-appears-lash-ex-Lucy-Jo-Hudsons-beau-Lewis-Devine.html }
Alan Halsall has seemingly lashed out at his ex-wife Lucy-Jo Hudson's boyfriend Lewis Devine after he called the actor's daughter his own. The Coronation Street actor, 37, appeared to make a remark in response to Lewis' gushing post following the birth of his and Lucy's son last week. Amid his excitement at becoming a new dad, Lewis heaped praise on Lucy and Alan's on six-year-old girl Sienna, with part of his statement reading: 'Our Sienna is delighted and is already making the best big sister, just like I knew she would!' In a now-deleted Instagram post viewed by The Sun, Alan didn't appear to take too kindly to Lewis' use of the word 'our' and seemed to hit back at his ex's new beau. He wrote: 'You’re welcome to keep the lying cheating one & call her your own! But not my daughter.' MailOnline have contacted representatives of Alan and Lucy for comment.  Lucy-Jo split from Alan in May 2018, after nearly nine years of marriage; it was revealed that she'd embarked on a relationship with Lewis just two months later.  However, she didn't go public with her romance until October of that year, taking to Instagram to share a gushing post dedicated to her boyfriend, with whom she shared the stage in Snow White And The Seven Dwarfs pantomime in 2017. Uploading a snap of herself posing with her beau, she wrote: 'How are you mine? I am beyond lucky to have found you baby @lewisdevine! Happy Birthday. You are one of the kindest, sweetest, funniest, most talented... and beautiful souls I’ve ever met!' She added: 'I can’t wait to celebrate this special day with you... love you gorgeous.' In July 2018, The Sun reported that Lucy-Jo and fellow Corrie star husband Alan had actually become friends with Lewis after the panto run at St. Helens, Merseyside. A source told the publication: 'Lucy-Jo and Lewis shared an instant ­chemistry, but obviously she was married and didn't act on it. After trying for months, she and Alan called time on their marriage and something slowly developed with Lewis.' The source continued: '[Alan and Lewis] used to muck around backstage together, and at one point Lewis even changed his Facebook profile picture to one of the three of them and the couple's daughter Sienna.'  In November 2018, the Coronation Street actress and her panto co-star moved into their first love nest together. Sunday's online confrontation comes just days after Alan's former wife revealed she had given birth to a baby boy with Lewis. The actress, 36, took to Instagram Stories on Thursday to gush that she was 'so in love' with the new arrival, before adding that 'their family was now complete.'  In her post Lucy-Jo penned: 'When 3 became 4. 18.2.2020.' [sic]  In a second post the soap star: 'We are so in love with our baby boy!!! Our family is now complete! Love you @lewisdevine.'  Lewis also took to Instagram to announce the arrival of his son, writing: 'Our family has grown by two feet! Feeling blessed! Just when I thought I couldn't love you anymore @lucyjo_hudson so proud of you babe xxx.' In a lengthy post, which evidently riled Alan, Lewis added: 'Wow what an experience! We are so happy to announce that our little bundle of joy has arrived safe and sound and we are all back home no and settling in great. 'Our Sienna is delighted and is already making the best big sister just like I know she would! I am so proud of my Lucy-Jo seeing her carry him for nine months and then bring him into the world the way.  'The way she did it was just unbelievable and a memory and feeling that will last forever love you all so much.'   Ahead of giving birth, Lucy-Jo spoke candidly to MailOnline about her 'difficult' pregnancy, after being diagnosed with SPD, which typically occurs ahead of giving birth and leaves your pelvic joints soft and stretchy, causing pain in some women.   The star said: 'It's been a lot different, I mean people do say that you carry differently with boys and girls and you really do. It's been a little bit more, it's been more difficult this pregnancy.' Lucy-Jo explained: 'Just with the sickness at the beginning, which was like 24/7, that was quite hard while working, but obviously, I know at the end of the day I am having a little miracle so your body has to do some amazing things.' She added: 'I think as well because I've already got one, you're running around aren’t you, so you don't really stop. 'I am kind of walking around like a little old woman at the moment, I can't get out of bed and it takes me a while to sit down then get up, so I am kind of glad I finished [Hollyoaks] just before I started with all this.     'I am so ready for him to be here now, it's just getting a little bit more challenging now. I'm not the kind of person who can just lay in bed, I want to be up and doing things. 'But it's not long, like I said, I am on the countdown so apart from that really I can't complain, it's gone a lot faster than my first pregnancy, like a lot faster.'  Lucy and Alan married in 2009 after meeting on the set of Corrie, before splitting in 2018.  The soap star announced that she and Lewis were dating just eight weeks after revealing she had split from Alan, who is now dating actress Tisha Merry.  Long-time soap star Alan recently revealed he's already feeling pressured to propose to girlfriend Tisha, just months after the pair publicly confirmed their romance. He told The Mirror he's still in the throngs of early love with his Coronation Street star girlfriend, and is in no rush to pop the question. He said: 'The pressure is there from day one but we’ve not been together that long, so I think we’ll just enjoy ourselves for now.' Speaking about his relationship with Tisha he added: 'It’s great, she’s a wonderful girl and I’m really happy.'  
