{ By Claire Toureille For Mailonline   Published:  14:40, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8034763/Honey-Ross-claims-men-send-flirty-messages-wont-chat-publicly-shes-fat.html }
Body image activist Honey Ross has revealed men frequently slide into her DMs and try to chat her up, but would never publicly admit to being attracted to her because she's 'fat'. Writing in The Sunday Times Style magazine, the daughter of British TV presenter Jonathan Ross, 59, from London, reflected on how she navigates dating as a plus size woman, claiming she has often been 'oversexualised' or 'desexualised' by men.  She explained that many men who message and follow her online would never talk to her in front of their friends because of her size, even if they were complimentary in private messages - branding their desire for larger bodies 'their dirty secret'.  Honey wrote about the unspoken pressure to lose weight that she felt for a long time, but she now believes her curves are her secret power to sort the good men from the bad - adding she is now 'punching higher than she used to' when looking for a partner.  'Whether it's swiping right or sliding into my Instagram DMs, I get a lot of sexual attention,' she wrote.  'Strangers and mutuals alike are privately trying to get my attention. But note the word "privately": most of these men who message and follow me would never publicly like or comment on my pictures. 'Their desire for fat bodies is their dirty secret, hidden in inboxes across the world.'  She added that in a real-life situation, none of these men would be talking to her in front of their friends.  The activist and producer explained that has often been oversexualised by men 'to the point of fetish' and faced 'violently sexual opening lines', including 'you're edible' and 'I'm skinning you'. She also wrote that fellow larger women have gone through similar experiences, and that plus-size women dating have to juggle the opinion they have of themselves as well as their partner's and society's opinion.  Honey wrote that during dates she was often 'reduced to her frame' when men spoke about her, with various companions proclaiming they prefer to date larger women and don't find thin women attractive.  She explained that her dating profile use to read 'fatter in person' as a self-deprecating joke, and realised recently that other people had been doing the same as a kind of 'warning' to fellow app users.  Honey has since stopped doing that and urged other plus size women to do the same as it makes being a larger woman sound like something negative. Honey added that, being friends with predominantly thin women, she used to struggle with seeing the nice responses they would get online compared to what people said about her. She admitted her thin pals were 'horrified' when they found out the sheer volume of unpleasant messages Honey receives. She concluded by revealing she has given herself permission to no longer settles for 'dehumanising crumbs' and instead to ask for me - and she's received it. Last week Honey garnered attention at the VIN + OMI London Fashion Week show, making her runway debut in quirky attire. Honey donned a pink mini dress that hugged her curves, the bold dress featured a ruffled collar and capped sleeves and had the word 'REAL' down the front.  
