online
{ By Rianne Addo For Mailonline   Published:  14:44, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8034913/Gigi-Hadid-jumps-boyfriend-Zayn-Maliks-defence-amid-Jake-Paul-feud.html }
Gigi Hadid jumped to boyfriend Zayn Malik's defence as Jake Paul claimed the singer told him to 'f**k off for no reason'.  The supermodel, 24, who is currently in the midst of Milan Fashion Week, took to Twitter to hit back at the controversial YouTuber, 23, after he alleged that he narrowly avoided a physical altercation with the former One Direction singer, 27. In an uncharacteristically foul-mouthed exchange, Gigi branded the social media personality 'embarrassing' and insisted her on-off beau is 'unbothered' by his 'irrelevant ugly a**'.  Bizaardvark actor Jake recalled his encounter with Zayn as he claimed he was caught off guard by the musician's 'attitude' when they met. It is unclear where the pair crossed paths, but they both documented their time at the Tyson Fury v Deontay Wilder match, which took place at Las Vegas' MGM Grand on Saturday evening. The online sensation told his 3.7 million Twitter followers: 'almost had to clap up zane from 1 direction because he is a little guy and has an attitude and basically told me to f**k off for no reason when I was being nice to him....  'zane ik you’re reading this... stop being angry cause u came home alone to ur big a** hotel room hahaha.' [sic] Jake continued to slam the Pillowtalk hitmaker as he added: 'bro he literally started yelling and freaking the f**k out. “you wanna test me mate”. lol I feel bad for childhood stars.' [sic] Stepping in to support her man - who is rarely active on social media - from across the globe, Gigi suggested Zayn opted to return to his hotel room as he wasn't keen on embarking on a night out with Jake and his 'YouTube groupies'. The bold catwalk queen didn't hold back as she responded: 'Lol cause he doesn’t care to hang w you and your embarrassing crew of YouTube groupies ..?  'Home alone with his best friends like a respectful king cause he has me, sweetie. Unbothered by your irrelevant ugly a**. Go to bed ...'. [sic]   MailOnline contacted Jake, Zayn and Gigi's representatives for further comment.   In the romance department, Jake recently hit headlines after splitting from his 'wife' of just a few months, Tana Mongeau, who was recently spotted putting on a cosy display with his older brother Logan, 24.  Meanwhile, Gigi and Zayn confirmed their reunion in January nearly a year after ending their three-year relationship. The pair seem to be stronger than ever as the blonde recently opened up about wanting to start a family with the hunk. In a recent interview with i-D Magazine’s The Icons and Idols Issue, Gigi shared: 'I think that as I get older... well one day I'll start a family and I don't know if I will always be modelling. 'I love the creative side of fashion, it's so fulfilling. The people I work with make me so happy, I'm so lucky to be around them. But who knows? Maybe I'll take up full time cooking!'  The showbiz couple first dated in November 2015, three months after he called off his engagement to Little Mix singer Perrie Edwards.  After just over two years together, the couple confirmed their break-up on Twitter in March 2018. The IMG model and the musician rekindled their romance a month later as they were pictured packing on the PDA in images obtained by TMZ. Gigi and Zayn kept the status of their relationship low-key from August 2018, five months before they officially split.  Prior to their romance, the What Makes You Beautiful hitmaker dated fellow singer Perrie, 26, from early 2012 to July 2015, while Vogue coverstar Gigi was in a relationship with Australian musician Cody Simpson from 2013 to 2015.   
