{ By Jessica Rach For Mailonline   Published:  12:33, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8034625/Aldi-shoppers-divided-rug-grey-lilac-think.html }
A mother has sparked a fierce debate online after asking whether her bathroom rug is grey or lilac. Aislinn James, from Australia, took to Facebook group ALDI Mums to reveal how she bought a light grey bathroom mat set from ALDI, before noticing in the evening that it had 'turned purple'. Explaining that the set appeared to change colour according to what light it is in, she asked whether she was 'completely crazy', and was inundated from responses from followers debating the colour of the rugs. Taking to Facebook, the exasperated mother shared a picture of the rug in natural and artificial light and wrote: 'Please help... I swear I purchased a light grey bath mat set from Aldi today $9.99, got them home put them in the main bathroom, still looking a lovely light grey. 'Tonight my husband comes in and says why to I have purple bath mats in my bathroom.... checked it out and the dam things are now purple!' She added: 'I swear I purchased light grey bath mat set.... so can anyone clarify if I'm completely crazy or if these mats change colour in natural vs artificial light? P.S not happy at all with our definilty purple bath mats.' [sic]' Joking that this was like the 2015 optical illusion dress, one user wrote: 'This is the blue/gold dress all over again. I see grey!'.  Another revealed how they had experienced the same thing with the set, writing: 'I went to buy the teal ones & my 19yr old daughter n I had a disagreement for a good 5mins about that mat as I said it was grey & she was adamant it was purple. So to see this makes me laugh.' Meanwhile on shopoper added: 'I saw them in-store and thought they looked purple so I didn't buy them as I wanted grey, I was disappointed'. And other explained: 'Maybe the tiles bring out the mauve colour of the grey bath mat against your lovely nice grey tiles, as they have different hues.' ALDI has confirmed to news.com.au that the rugs were likely to be a shade called 'lilac grey'.   Back in 2015, the infamous 'dress' divided internet users, who simply could not agree over whether it was black and blue or gold and white - with Kim Kardashian and Taylor Swift joining in on the debate.  Every single person is unique and as a result, our brains process information differently. Depending on how you interpret colours, one person might see it one way, while the very next person who looks at it might see it differently. Light enters the eye and hits the retina, which is the light sensitive tissue at the back of the eye.  The light is converted to an electrical signal which travels along the Optic Nerve to the Visual Cortex in the brain. The brain makes its own unique interpretation of this electrical signal. It is not surprising that many respondents changed their mind when seeing the colour in contrast to the two blue shades, as we perceive an object’s colour based on a comparison to its surrounding shades, not on the actual colour itself. Assessing colour vision is just one of the myriad of examinations that can be undertaken during a routine sight test. It’s possible for colour blindness to go undetected depending on severity - as it’s impossible to see the world through another person’s eyes. Conditions such as protanomaly, deuteranomaly and tritanomaly can range from inconvenient to quite dangerous - often preventing those inflicted from pursuing certain careers. If you have any concerns about your colour perception, you should seek an appointment with a registered optometrist. Stephen Hannan, Clinical Services Director at Optical Express  
