{ By Afp and Leigh Mcmanus For Mailonline   Published:  11:30, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8034647/Third-passenger-Japan-cruise-ship-dies-health-ministry.html }
A third person who became ill on board a coronavirus-stricken cruise ship quarantined off the coast of Japan has died, the country's health ministry said.  In a statement, the ministry identified the victim as a Japanese man in his 80s who was removed from the Diamond Princess and taken to a local hospital after suffering 'symptoms.' The ministry did not confirm whether the man had tested positive for COVID-19.  They said they could only disclose the information that the family of the man had consented to make public. It gave the man's cause of death as pneumonia. A total of 36 people who were passengers on the ship are seriously ill on the 'infection factory' ship.  The death comes after two other elderly passengers, also both Japanese and in their 80s, died on Thursday after contracting the virus. Despite a quarantine imposed on the Diamond Princess, more than 600 people on board tested positive for the virus, with several dozen in serious condition. In total, Japan has so far recorded four deaths linked to the new coronavirus outbreak, which has infected more than 130 people excluding those linked to the Diamond Princess. On Thursday, two Japanese passengers - an 87-year-old man and an 84-year-old woman - died from the same disease, a week after a woman not related to the cruise ship also died.  Following news that a passenger who tested negative later developed the virus, Japanese health minister Katsunobu Kato has said that the government will have to keep close tabs on those who were allowed to leave the ship.  The country's health authorities will make daily phone calls to hundreds of people who have disembarked from the Diamond Princess, Kyodo News in Japan reports.  The minister added that the evacuees have already been asked to avoid using public transportation and told to wear masks when they come into contact with others.   The news comes as the family of British couple David and Sally Abel, from Northamptonshire, are struggling with poor mental health in a Japanese hospital after cruel online trolls accused them of 'milking it'.  The pair, who were on the Diamond Princess cruise for their 50th wedding anniversary, were both diagnosed with pneumonia before being moved to a hospital.    
