{ By Kristy Johnson For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  10:01, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8034425/Married-Sight-fans-praise-Mikey-Pembroke-DUMPING-Natasha.html }
Married At First Sight fans have commended Mikey Pembroke for choosing to leave his marriage with Natasha Spencer during Sunday night's commitment ceremony. Select viewers praised the 29-year-old for his maturity on Twitter, saying that Natasha 'really broke his trust' by joking about his sexual performance to the group. At last week's dinner party, the 26-year-old financial analyst revealed to her co-stars that Mikey 'only lasted 10 seconds' in the bedroom.  'Yes Mikey! Yes! That is a man of integrity,' one fan wrote on Twitter, as well as another who posted: 'Good decision, Mikey!'  Others said they weren't surprised by Mikey's decision to leave the marriage, with one writing: 'Mikey wrote leave, really not surprised. Natasha really broke his trust.' However, it wasn't all negative for Natasha, with some criticising Mikey for 'giving up' after just one fight in their relationship. 'Mikey is giving up after one fight? Mate, you aren't ready for marriage yet,' one said.  During Sunday night's commitment ceremony, Mikey chose to leave the marriage, while Natasha chose to stay.  This means they must remain together for another week and try and work through their issues.  As the relationship experts asked them how things were going, the pair started screaming at each other while discussing their dinner party drama. Last week, Natasha laughed to Michael Goonan and Stacey Hampton that Mikey had 'only lasted 10 seconds' in the bedroom, causing him embarrassment. The brunette went on to apologise to Mikey for this, saying: 'I'm sorry I made you feel uncomfortable, I tried to explain. I told Michael it wasn't fair that he'd taken something out of context. I defended Mikey.'  'I said he's a great person, great lover and I'm lucky to have him as a "husband".' Mikey, who stormed out of the dinner party last week after the group gossiped about his sex life with Natasha, explained that he was very upset by the remarks.   Mikey said: 'I guess I was just really hurt, and overwhelmed with hearing all of that. I just thought leaving and cooling down was the best thing to do. 'I'd be lying if I said that these new concerns and trust [issues] haven't taken over the more positive side of Tash that I've seen. There's a loving, caring and sensitive side - but there's also a side that's fierce. Right now, I think it is best for me to leave.'  Married At First Sight continues Monday at 7:30pm on Channel Nine.   
