online
{ By Kristy Johnson For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  09:15, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8034377/The-Veronicas-Jessica-Origliasso-wishes-fianc-happy-birthday.html }
She announced her engagement to musician Kai Carlton in October last year. And on Sunday, The Veronicas' Jessica Origliasso wished her fiancé a happy 24th birthday in a sweet Instagram post. Alongside a childhood photo of Kai and a video of the pair celebrating their engagement, the 35-year-old pop star wrote in the caption: 'You are so rare to me.'  'Jumping back online to say happy 24th to my angel in this life,' Jessica began her heartfelt post.   'You are my beginning, my middle and my end. I see what you do every day, quietly working away at your medical degree, most people don't even know you're doing this!! 'Your commitment and discipline blows my entire mind!! Your music and art, your work, commitment to self-love and comforting me through one of the hardest experiences in life,' she continued. 'You hold it down for me and give me the world personified. I can't believe I get to celebrate you every year, forever!! Marry you soon, create a nest filled with dogs and cats and babies, watch adventure time 365 days forever. 'Listen to your inner thoughts through rhymes, and perform entire musicals in the kitchen at dinner time. Thank you for everything, especially the in-between moments where you have to pick me up again and again. You are so rare to me, I love you.'    Jessica accompanied the caption with a video of Kai performing a melody on guitar, a sweet childhood photo of Kai, and a clip of the pair toasting to their engagement. Back in October, the Untouched singer took to Instagram to announce that she and Kai had got engaged after a year of dating.    Jessica wrote in the caption: 'Happy 1 year & THE REST OF MY LIFE with you @kaigodlike.  'I've been happy crying for two hours. I've never felt so full,' she added alongside a photo in which she showed off her engagement ring.    Prior to her romance with Kai, Jessica dated Australian actress and DJ, Ruby Rose.   
