{ By Chloe Morgan For Mailonline   Published:  08:48, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8000645/Savvy-woman-turns-cardboard-waste-incredible-dolls-house.html }
A savvy mother who wanted to reduce waste has transformed cardboard boxes into a replica of a house in her local area.  Victoria Harris, 67, from Leamington Spa, told how the little house is a copy of Oak House, Upper Holly Walk - which she describes as a 'very old and beautiful house.'   'I love this old house so much and I get to teach belly dance in the room that I call the ballroom every week,' the mum-of-one told money-saving community LatestDeals.co.uk. 'Oak House is basically falling to bits - it's a shame such a beautiful old place has lost its grandeur. Sarah and Geoff, who run the club, love the old house so much. ' She continued: 'About three months before Christmas, I decided to try to make a replica of the house for Sarah and Geoff so that if anything happened and the house was no more, they would have the little house to remember it by.' 'The house is a Grade II listed building built by local architect William Thomas circa 1838 - I would hope he would like my house as much as I like his!'  Victoria used old bits of cardboard and also bought some Fablon to pep it up. She also made the accessories for inside the house using old pieces of plastic and cardboard from around Leamington Spa.  'The house probably cost about £12 to make,' she added. 'The only thing I bought was the cream Fablon to cover the front of the house.'  'I love doing up old dolls' houses which is why I had all the bits to furnish the house with like the chairs and tables.  'The pool table is made from a box of Swan Vesta matches with beads and green and black felt, with cocktail sticks used for the cues.'  Victoria, a dance teacher, says that despite the house being gorgeously intricate, it was surprisingly uncomplicated to make.  'It was easy enough to make - I used a picture of the actual house and just copied it,' she explained. 'It's a great way to recycle plastic and cardboard. 'One good thing about making it was the fact if I made a mistake there was always plenty of cardboard for me to try again! My husband calls me the cardboard carpenter. The inspiration was the real house, it's in such a sorry state it's heartbreaking.' She continued: 'I am thinking about making the city by night next. When I had finished it I couldn't believe I had done it - I loved every minute of it and actually felt quite sad when it was all over.  'The best bit was presenting it to Sarah and Geoff at Oak House - they absolutely loved it.  Tom Church, co-founder of LatestDeals.co.uk, commented: 'If you're guilty of ordering loads online and then taking mounds of plastic and cardboard to the recycling bin, then this is a fantastic way to reuse packaging.  That it cost Victoria just £12 to make shows it could save you a lot of money if you were planning on buying a dolls house for your child and is probably much more fun to create from scratch.  'A brand new dolls' house like this made from wood costs £363.25 at Amazon. I'm just not sure my dolls house would be very appealing with it being made from used Domino's pizza boxes.'  
