{ By Emer Scully For Mailonline   Published:  07:52, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7974385/Its-like-miracle-Near-blind-man-reveals-eye-expert-rescued-sight-time-wedding.html }
A groom who suffered from an eye condition that left his vision severely blurred revealed how laser eye surgery allowed him to see his wife as she danced down the aisle on their wedding day.  Sean Toman, 58, from Witham in Essex, spent years living with Reis-Bucler corneal dystrophy, a rare condition affecting just 200 people in the UK that causes a layer of the cornea to disintegrate.  By the time he met his future wife, Rachel Adams, 52, at a swing dance in 2011, his vision had become so hazy that he struggled to work and needed a torch to read. Sean sought private treatment from Allon Barsam, co-founder and director at Ophthalmic Consultants of London, in the hope of improving his vision in time for his wedding in July last year. Allon used advanced laser eye surgery to restore his sight in one eye, removing all the cloudiness. Sean had treatment in two parts; the first eye in December 2018 and the second in March last year. The laser surgery itself took less than 10 minutes and within a couple of hours he was on the train home. It meant he could watch his beautiful bride dance down the aisle and look into her eyes as they exchanged their vows at Langtons House, Hornchurch, east London, on 6 July 2019. 'It's like a miracle,' he said. 'Everything is high definition and clear. It's as if someone has cleaned the windscreen. I can see colours, letters and numbers. It's fabulous.'  The data sales analyst first suffered eye problems a child, and his vision worsened throughout his teens and 20s. In his 30s, Sean learnt he had Reis-Bucler corneal dystrophy.   However Sean's regular NHS ophthalmic consultant said he could not operate until the condition had progressed to the point that Sean could not safely drive.   A few years later, his eyesight worsening, another eye surgeon referred him to Moorfields Eye Hospital for treatment in March 2018 where he was told the damage to his cornea was too deep for them to perform corrective laser surgery. Ten years ago, when Sean was in his late 40s, his eyesight had become so cloudy he was struggling to work or travel independently.  'It was like looking through a dirty windscreen,' Sean recalled. It was getting difficult for me at work because I was struggling to read the information I needed from the catalogues. I had to use a torch to highlight the text. Everything was hazy. It was a downward spiral.'  Patients with Reis-Bucler corneal dystrophy are born with seemingly normal corneas (the transparent layer at the front of the eye). By the age of four or five lesions start to develop. And few symptoms affect the sufferer until the epithelium, the outer surface of the eye, breaks - causing painful erosions to the cornea. Spots and lines then form in the middle of the cornea, with the sufferer dealing with hazy vision and light sensitivity. In 2011 Sean met Rachel at a Valentine's Day swing dance night and the two immediately hit it off.  'I asked her for a dance and we were talking while we danced,' he recalled. 'I have a fairly odd sense of humour but luckily she just thought it was brilliant.' Rachel supported Sean throughout his struggle with his vision.   'I may not have been able to see clearly but it was very clear to me that we should get married,' Sean said. Last year, while researching Reis-Buckler online, he came across an interview with Allon, who had successfully operated on another man with the same condition.  He contacted Allon and his team and, after a consultation involving several tests, was told they could perform corrective surgery. 'The surgery came at just the right time as it had reached the stage when I was really worried about how I was going to continue doing lots of things,' Sean continued. 'Everyone else had given up on me but Allon didn't. I had prayed for help and my prayers were answered, now I want to pay it forward wherever I can.' He added: 'Being able to see clearly again after all that time is like being given a new life. It's improved every aspect of my life. I feel more confident, I am doing better at work, I feel happier.' 
