online
{ By Eliza Mcphee For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:53, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8033849/NSW-P-plater-cuts-truck-driver-rammed-road.html }
A truck driver's decision to ram a P-plate driver off the road and into the path of oncoming traffic has sparked heated debate online over who was most at fault.  The P-plate driver, who admitted he was inexperienced and in the wrong, was trying to merge onto a highway in New South Wales last week when the crash unfolded.  He sped up beside the truck on an ending inside lane before cutting in front when the truck driver refused to let him in.  After merging into the other lane, the truck driver loudly beeped his horn before slamming into the side of the P-plater's car. 'Being a P plater, I'm not the most experienced driver. I clearly did some things wrong here, but that doesn't give this person the right to run me onto an island,' the dash cam driver said. 'Haven't heard back from the police yet, and my car is yet to be inspected or repaired, but it's still drivable, and I wasn't hurt.' The P-plater came to an abrupt stop on the island after running down a sign.  The footage was shared online by the P-plate driver and quickly sparked division over who was most at fault.  Some said both drivers were in the wrong while others took the chance to slam the P-plater for aggravating the situation. 'I suggest you voluntarily surrender your licence until you learn how to be patient on the roads, as this could easily have been avoided,' one person said. 'While I don't endorse what the truck driver did, you got what you deserved.' 'There was never enough room to get in front of the truck when you merged, got what you deserved champ,' another said. 'How the heck did you pass your driving test? I don't agree with what the truck driver did, but you need to resit your test,' wrote a third. Others sided with the P-plater and called for the truck driver to be charged. 'That is flat out dangerous driving and the truck driver should be charged,' someone said. 'Being a truck driver I have had this manoeuvre done to me so many times but no excuse for what the truck done. Both in the wrong here clearly and as for the flog driver in the rental truck, you give us all a bad name,' a man said. 'Your crap driving is nothing compared to his attack, can't have that truck driver loose on the roads,' someone commented. 
