{ By Alice Murphy For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:42, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8033903/Hot-cross-bun-grazing-boards-created-just-time-Easter.html }
Amateur bakers are arranging indulgent dessert platters laden with hot cross buns and stacks of pink marshmallows, fresh berries and chocolate just in time for Easter. Australian home cooks have been crafting their own ever since Brisbane lifestyle blogger Cheree Lawrence, who posts as 'Oh So Busy Mum', shared photos of her Easter-inspired grazing board back in 2019. Using hot cross buns as the centre piece, Ms Lawrence filled a round wooden board with white chocolate fingers, pieces of Kit Kat, mini chocolate eggs and luscious chunks of sweet waffle, loading piles of strawberries on top. Her handiwork has been praised online, with many calling it 'goals' and the perfect after-dinner treat for Easter Sunday, which falls on April 12 this year. 'Just so you're aware, I'm expecting this spread for Easter,' one woman said, tagging her friend's Instagram handle in the comment. Ms Lawrence's platter has inspired others to create their own with different ingredients. Food blogger 'Luxe Pearl' arranged a board covered in chocolate chip hot cross buns, grapes and Easter-themed biscuits iced with baby rabbits. If you don't have time to make one at home, Sydney confectioner House of Sugar has created an 'Easter tray' which can be purchased on request from its Facebook page. The arrangement includes tiny personalised jars of Nutella, chocolate bunnies, chocolate chip cookies, brownies and freckles, thick discs of chocolate covered in colourful sprinkles which are a popular children's treat in Australia. Perth grazing board company 'Platterrific' offers a savoury option, with hot cross buns surrounded by classic charcuterie ingredients including cured meats, cheese, crackers, breadsticks and grapes. Hot cross bun boards are the latest sharing platter to capture the imagination of Australian foodies. Boards filled with pancakes, burgers and hot chips have become popular over the past six months, while trays with 'deconstructed' pavlovas - where every ingredient is laid out separately - were all the rage over Christmas.  
