online
{ By Matthew Wright For Dailymail.com    Published:  04:42, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8033907/White-supremacists-BIGGEST-threat-New-Jersey-residents.html }
White supremacists have become an increasing threat to New Jersey, more so than ISIS and anti-government extremist, according to a report from state security officials.  The annual New Jersey Terrorism Assessment report explains that state officials raised the threat level for white supremacist from 'moderate' to 'high.' Homegrown violent extremists were the only other group listed in the 'high' section. These type of extremists are those who are inspired to act by foreign terrorist groups rather than be directed 'Homeland security and law enforcement professionals at all levels have taken notice of the rise in activity from white supremacist extremists New Jersey is committed to protecting the diversity of culture and faith that shapes our great State,' said Jared M Maples, director for the New Jersey Office of Homeland Security and Preparedness. 'For that reason, NJOHSP increased the threat posed by white supremacist extremists from moderate to high in 2020, joining homegrown violent extremists as the most persistent hostile actors in New Jersey.'  ISIS was moved from 'moderate' to 'low' as the group has not conducted an attack in the United States, the reports states.  While the report does list local incidents as the catalysts behind the change for white supremacist, it also highlights the El Paso shooting by Patrick Crusius on August 3 that left 22 people dead and another 24 injured.   A timeline of terrorism that took place in 'The Garden State' shows that three incidents had ties to white supremacy and involved plots to carry out action.  On June 25, Michael Zaremski of Green Township was indicted on weapons charges after content was found on his phone and computer. The man's girlfriend told authorities that the man was obsessed with Hitler and expressed interest in committing a mass shooting at a hospital.  White supremacist extremist Fred Arena of Salem, New Jersey, was indicted for making false statements to government agents on October 25. It was discovered that he was a member of white supremacist group Vanguard America and had been lying about his involvement. Arena was vocal about wanting to fight anti-facists and law enforcement.  Volunteer firefighter Richard Tobin of Brooklawn admitted on November 13 to telling followers to vandalize synagogues in Wisconsin and Michigan, using neo-Nazi network - The Base - to communicate. He also expressed interest in attacking black people with a machete at a New Jersey mall.  The report states that white supremacist will pose a high threat to New Jersey in 2020 as 'supporters of this ideology demonstrate their willingness and capability to carry out attacks, direct and inspire sympathizers online and attempt to network globally.  In 2019, white supremacist were found to have carried out four attacks while also participating in at least 19 additional plots.  White supremacists have also increased their recruiting tactics in the area, according to the report.  Since January 2019, there have been 168 reported instances of white supremacist propaganda distribution. This is a significant jump from the 46 from 2018.  These distributions are mostly in the form of flyers being placed in public venues and higher education institutions across the state. The report also highlights that last summer, the Feuerkrieg Division - an international neo-Nazi group that advocates for a race war - tried to heavily recruit in New Jersey and New York. Created in 2018, the group has tried to expand heavily into the United States.  The report also notes that that white supremacists have been participating in violent forms of accelerationism as motivation for carrying out the acts.  The extremists argue that the mass attacks create chaos that accelerates the 'imminent and necessary collapse of society in order to build a racially pure nation.' An example provided details how Brenton Tarrant's manifesto was found to have the core traits of accelerationism after his March 15 attack on two mosques in New Zealand. Tarrant believed that killing the worshippers would help bring the theory to the mainstream.  'Some white supremacist extremists and organizations often refer to several books and scholarly articles about accelerationism, and some organizations have required reading lists in order to gain membership,' the report states. 'Additionally, many of these texts are often referenced in online chatrooms and podcasts.'  Besides the change to white supremacists in the report, officials also moved black separatist extremists from 'low' to 'moderate.' The decision came after a pair opened fire on a Jewish community in Jersey City, killing four.  Anti-government extremists were added to the list as officials state that they had been examining the ;actions of individuals who do not necessarily question the legitimacy of government but express their opposition to specific policies, entities, officials, and political parties through threats or acts of violence.'   
