online
{ By Hannah Skellern For Dailymail.com   Published:  04:25, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8033873/Airport-chaos-looms-181-MILLION-Americans-needing-new-IDs-travel.html }
Most American travelers will need to apply for a new ID because two thirds of 276 million state driver's licenses do not comply with a security law, sparking fears that the measure could drastically dent tourism. In the U.S. there are 181 million people who still do not have a 'REAL ID' and more than half of Americans are unaware that they will need the ID to board a flight, according to research by the U.S. Travel Association (USTA) conducted last fall.  The law, enforced after recommendations following 9/11, means that all travelers will need a REAL ID to fly domestically. The Airports Council International-North America, which represents American airports, warned that passengers could be left stranded.  The council's CEO Kevin Burke described the situation to NBC News as 'a crisis waiting to happen'. 'If the government doesn't make a definitive statement now that they're going to extend this, then we're going to have a real crisis on our hands come October 1,' he said.  Fears have been raised that the tourism industry will suffer if millions of people find themselves suddenly unable to fly when the law goes into effect in October.  Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Acting Secretary Chad Wolf said that the department is trying to find ways to ease the process as the deadline fast approaches.  Tori Emerson Barnes of the USTA said: 'The challenge remains that tens of millions of Americans do not yet possess REAL ID-compliant identification'. Although 48 states issue the IDs, people who got their driver's licenses before their state implemented it will have to reapply. Oklahoma and Oregon still have not started issuing the IDs.  State DMVs are likely to be overwhelmed by applicants as the October deadline approaches. The credentials are normally identifiable by a star in the upper-right corner. In a bid to cushion the impact, DHS announced on Wednesday that it would loosen the restrictions by letting state agencies accept identity pre-submission documents online in attempt to make the application process faster.  However, even if states chose to implement a secure electronic system, an in-person trip to the DMV would still be required - and documents will still need to be taken to the appointment. The DHS said that waiting time would be cut at the appointment because documents would not need to be scanned. To get a new licenses, applicants need proof of residency, proof of identity and legal residence in the United States and a Social Security card.      Wolf said: 'While progress has been made, the real work is still ahead because approximately two-thirds of all licenses are presently not compliant with REAL ID. 'Rest assured, our department will continue to examine other viable options to improve upon this process and continues doing everything it can to inform Americans of the requirement to obtain a REAL ID before the full enforcement deadline later this year.'   The requirement for REAL IDs was recommended by the 9/11 Commission's that the federal government set standards for handing out ID.  Aside from REAL ID-compliant state driver's licenses, travelers can use other forms of identification such as passports or DHS Trusted Traveler cards.  
