{ By Brendan Carlin for The Mail on Sunday   Published:  01:30, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8033599/Free-speech-union-defend-people-target-Twitter-storms.html }
People who become the target of ‘Twitter storms’ after making controversial remarks will be defended by a new body called the Free Speech Union. The organisation will ‘stand up for the rights of its members to tell the truth in all circumstances’. The union has been set up by the journalist Toby Young in response to police investigations into a string of ‘non-crime hate incidents’ triggered by outspoken comments. Mr Young, writing in today’s Mail on Sunday, said the union would be a ‘non-partisan, mass-membership organisation’. He says: ‘If someone at work writes to your boss to complain about something you’ve said, we’ll write to them, too, and explain the importance of intellectual tolerance and viewpoint diversity. ‘If self-righteous social-media bullies pick on you, we’ll return the fire. If someone launches an online petition calling for you to be sacked, we’ll launch a counter-petition. The enemies of free speech hunt in packs; its defenders must band together too.’ The move, which comes after The Mail on Sunday launched its own Fighting For Free Speech campaign, was welcomed by Tory MP Andrew Rosindell, who said: ‘Free speech is the bedrock of a free society and a free people. ‘I have watched freedom of expression gradually being eroded and good men and women being hounded as a result of simply having an opinion. It’s time the fightback began against the extreme politically correct culture and I commend Toby Young for this initiative in establishing the Free Speech Union.’ Fellow Tory MP Philip Davies said he was ‘delighted’ to back the campaign. He said: ‘In a free country, free speech is the most precious commodity of all. However, the politically correct brigade have been so successful that now decent people are petrified of what they say or what word they use in case some extremist zealot claims they were offended by it. ‘I wish Toby every success with this vital campaign and I will support it in any way I can.’ 
