{ By Charlotte Dean For Mailonline   Published:  01:57, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8033707/Kyle-Walkers-ex-left-discovering-hes-fathering-pal-Lauryn-Goodmans-baby.html }
Kyle Walker's ex-girlfriend and the mother of his three children Annie Kilner has reportedly claimed their relationship is over after he revealed he is fathering another woman's baby. It was recently revealed footballer Kyle, 29, is the father of pregnant Lauryn Goodman's unborn child after they had a fling last summer. Since the news came to light Annie, 27, is said to have told friends Kyle is a 'fool' for risking her and their family after she has been left heartbroken by the news.   A source revealed to the Sun on Sunday that Annie told pals of her reaction when Kyle told her about Lauryn: 'I felt physically sick. All the air in your body leaves you. 'My world completely caved in on me in that second, it was the worst-case scenario, the one thing I dreaded most but knew was possible given his track record with women. 'I couldn't believe what I was hearing, not only had he cheated on me but she was pregnant with his baby.' The paper alleged Kyle told Annie about the fling just hours before the news broke online that Lauryn was expecting his child. It is believed Kyle broke the news over the phone and has not been home to try and patch things up, in favour of staying in a £8,000-a-week city centre flat.  MailOnline has contacted Kyle and Lauryn's representatives for comment.   Annie and Kyle's relationship was rocked last year when Ex On The Beach's Laura Brown revealed she had met the footballer for sex on several occasions.   Lauryn appeared on Victoria Derbyshire earlier this month to discuss her shock at discovering she was five months pregnant - despite being told she was unlikely to conceive due to her battle with endometriosis. Lauryn, 29, announced her pregnancy last month, but initially kept the father's identity a closely guarded secret, before suddenly revealing Kyle is the dad. Probed by host Victoria about why she made his name public, Lauryn insisted it was to put the focus firmly back on her fertility issues and to detract from constant speculation about her unborn child's paternity. Lauryn was previously told she was unlikely to conceive due to suffering from endometriosis, an often painful disorder in which tissue similar to the lining of the uterus - the endometrium - grows outside the uterus. She explained: 'It was going to be my first and probably only child that I have. I wanted to enjoy what I could of it out of the public eye. 'I wanted a little bit of me time. Then I got pictured on the beach in Barbados. I was thinking, "Can I even deny that I'm pregnant, I'm not ready to do this..." 'I decided to release it on my Instagram and give the backstory about why this was such a special pregnancy for me. 'It didn't become about the endometriosis and the infertility journey... It became about who the dad was, which for me, it wasn't about that. 'It was about raising awareness for women that are suffering; a lot are suffering in silence, they don't even know they have it'. Victoria questioned Lauryn further about the 'rationale' for name dropping the Manchester City right back. Lauryn replied: 'I thought, now we've got that out of the way, we can concentrate on what I do want to get across, which is raising awareness, giving people hope that they might be able to have a baby. 'And the amount of messages I've had from women saying it's really helped has been great - not enough people talk about this disease.' Asked whether Kyle would be involved with raising her child, Lauryn was keen to change the subject. 'Me and Kyle are keeping things private in terms of our child and I want it to remain that way. I'm here to raise awareness', she said. Victoria gently asked Lauryn whether she was nervous about the prospect of being a single mum. 'I am nervous, I'm not going to lie', Lauryn - whose sister is CBB and Ex On The Beach star Chloe Goodman - said. 'It's something I never thought I'd do. But a lot of strong people I know are doing it really well. 'That brings hope for me. I'm fortunate enough to have a really good support network at home with my family and friends.' She confessed she has been leaning on her younger sibling for support since Chloe, 26, is also expecting her first child. 'My sister is pregnant - we're three and a half weeks apart - and my other friend is pregnant, it's great. I'm blessed to be able to have this child. 'I'll take any challenge that comes with it', Lauryn enthused. Lauryn was shocked to discover she was expecting a child five months into her pregnancy. The star only found out when she went for a routine kidney scan to check her benign kidney tumour in November. 'They were scanning over my kidney and my bladder, and the woman said, "Congratulations on your pregnancy!"', she recalled. 'I said, "What baby?" She turned the screen and there was this full on baby! I burst out crying with my mum. 'I couldn't believe it, I kind of felt like I was being punked... You've been told that you'd never become pregnant naturally. 'The amount of tests I'd done with my previous partner, where you really hope for that positive, but it was always a negative... 'It didn't feel real at first. Then I was overwhelmed, I started crying. I was thinking, I can't believe that I'm creating this life inside of me and I thought I never would.' This comes after Lauryn told The Sun on Sunday she is being 'harassed' over the unborn child's paternity and opted to speak out in order 'to stop speculation once and for all.' Kyle, who represented England as they reached the semi-finals of the 2018 World Cup in Russia, had been with his long term partner Annie for ten years before splitting 11 months ago. The footballer met Annie when he was 18 and playing at his hometown club Sheffield United, while the glamour model was just 16. But their relationship ended in April 2019 when he was accused of romping with Laura Brown, 30, in the back of his £200,000 Bentley. And Lauryn claims her relationship with the decorated footballer began shortly afterwards. She revealed: 'Rumours and gossip are starting to circulate and I'd rather people heard it from the horse's mouth so I want to stop all the speculation once and for all. 'Kyle Walker and I are expecting a baby in April and it was conceived during a period we had both split from our previous partners. This will be the last time I comment on it and I will only be sharing the positive journey going forward.'   She confirmed the news on Instagram, saying she overjoyed to become a mother, after having previously been told she would not be able to conceive naturally.  
