online
{ By Charlotte Dean For Mailonline   Published:  00:17, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8033413/Cheryl-baffles-fans-changing-eye-colour-wears-pair-green-contacts.html }
Cheryl left fans confused with her changing eye colour as she wore a pair of green contact lenses during Saturday night's episode of the Greatest Dancer. The singer, 36, looked stunning in a plunging pink and red sequined jumpsuit for the dance competition show as complemented it with a pair of green/grey contacts. Some viewers took to Twitter to complement the unusual accessory and said they 'loved them', while others suggested they were confused.  One person said: 'What's going on with Cheryl's contacts this last couple of weeks? New idea? #GreatestDancer.' While another baffled viewer penned: 'Why is Cheryl Cole suddenly wearing coloured contacts lately on the Greatest Dancer the heck.' Another person didn't appear to keen on Cheryl's new look and said: 'Cheryl still has the dodgy contacts in then #GreatestDancer.' Many of the online commenters appeared to love Cherly's new look and praised on social media, with one writing: 'Cheryl's back with the contracts. I like them a lot but it is weird seeing her without her beautiful brown eyes.' Another said: 'Another great show being honest good to see all of @CherylOfficial acts are through to the semis, loved the green contacts too happy @todrick act got through as well, hopefully Cheryl wins it tho #Cherylsquad.' While another speculated on the next colour she will wear, and said: 'Can't wait for Cheryl to come out with purple eyes next week.' One person was clearly a huge fan and said: 'I wanna know where Cheryl gets her contacts from cause I want them.'  During the episode, which saw Oti Mabuse's act Vale get sent home, Cheryl performed a dance alongside American singer-songwriter Todrick Hall. Earlier this week, Cheryl took to Instagram on Thursday to share a picture of herself and her co-star Todrick. In the snap, Cheryl looked incredible wearing a black sequin blazer dress which was cinched in at the waist with a belt and had white tassles.  Todrick, 34, added a splash of colour to his look with a splash of red paint on his blazer, worn over a red polo neck and matching hat. Cheryl captioned the image with the words: 'I love you like xo' alongside a diamond ring emoji.  Taking to Stories, she also shared a clip of herself wearing a glam look ahead of Saturday's show.  The stunning metallic bronze midi dress had a small cut-out below her cleavage and Cheryl took a selfie of her ensemble while posing in front of the mirror.    
