{ By Ciara Farmer For Mailonline   Published:  12:37, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8041939/Rick-Edwards-poses-hospital-prepares-undergo-surgery.html }
Rick Edwards has undergone surgery for a torn ligament in his knee.  The TV presenter, 40, took to social media to share a snap while lying in a hospital bed with his leg heavily strapped up with pen marks pointing to his knee, as he confirmed to a fan he was having ACL reconstruction.     In the comments section of the snap, Rick thanked his T4 co-star Jameela Jamil for sending her well wishes, in a mark that all is well in their relationship just a month after she branded both herself and her co-stars on the show 'smug and snide'.  Rick posed bravely in hospital, while adding the caption: 'Felt cute, might delete later', before joking: 'I took over an entire wing of the hospital'.  He revealed in a response to a fan that he was undergoing an ACL reconstruction.  The procedure is detailed online as: 'Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction is a surgical tissue graft replacement of the anterior cruciate ligament, located in the knee, to restore its function after an injury... 'The torn ligament can either be removed from the knee, or preserved before reconstruction an arthroscopic procedure.' An ACL injury is a tear or sprain in the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). The injury usually occurs during sport that involves sudden stops, change in direction, and jumping and landing, such as football or basketball. ACL tears are common among young athletes, with 200,000 injuries occurring every year in the US, according to the journal The Physician and Sports medicine.  The injury's prevalence in the UK is unknown.  Many people hear a 'pop' coming from their knee when the injury occurs.   Other symptoms may include: ACL injuries are more common in women due to differences in anatomy, muscle strength and hormonal fluctuations. Poor-fitting shoes; poorly maintained equipment, such as skis; and playing on artificial turf also increases the risk.  ACL injuries raise a person's risk of developing osteoarthritis of the knee, even if they have surgery to reconstruct the ligament.  Depending on the severity of the injury, treatment may involve rest and rehabilitation exercises. This includes: In severe cases, surgery to replace the torn ligament with a segment of tendon may be required.  Source: Mayo Clinic  Among the stars wishing Rick well was Jameela, who wrote: 'Get well soon xxxxx', after which he responded: 'Thanks JJ!' In December, Jameela slammed her own behaviour during her days of presenting Channel 4 youth show T4, from 2009 until 2012. The outspoken presenter-turned-actress, 33, said that she acted like a 'smug, snide, privileged hipster w***er' on T4, when she responded to a fan who declared she 'wasn't the nicest' during her time on the show. Taking to Twitter late last week, Jameela wrote: 'I was a little d**k when I was on T4. That was our “thing” smug, snide, privileged hipster w***ers.  'T4 was amazing for my career and I love so many people I met on it... 'But Christ I cringe at how we behaved and the things I said to “fit in” trying to be cool.' The London native's post was in response to one of her followers, who tweeted: 'Hi Jameela, I first half saw you on T4 on the beach... 'Honestly thought you wasn’t the nicest. Saw you on #TheGoodPlace and loved you. [sic] 'I’ve seen how you have grown. I love how you can apologise and learn. Relate to your growth and support you.' Jameela's post caught the eye of her former co-presenter Rick, who responded by tweeting a pair of eyeballs at the actress. Standing her ground on the matter, Jameela responded to Rick: 'I’m not taking it back! You are great. Smart, funny and a joy to work with. 'But I found what we said and did sometimes pointlessly mean, patronizing, and smug... 'And it made me feel bad back then, and still now.' T4, which ran from 1998 until 2012, launched the careers of several stars, including Dermot O'Leary, Alexa Chung, Ben Shephard, Vernon Kay, and Nick Grimshaw.     
