{ By Jake Ryan and Nic North For The Mail On Sunday   Published:  22:00, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8032987/Jamaican-sex-attacker-faces-new-investigation-claims-teenage-victim.html }
A foreign rapist fighting to stay in Britain is facing new accusations that he carried out sex attacks on a teenage girl. Fabian Henry was ordered out of the country after serving a prison term for raping one teenager and abducting another. But earlier this month, just as he was about to be put on a flight back to his native Jamaica, lawyers challenged his deportation, meaning the 37-year-old remains in Britain and could soon be free. He is one of dozens of Jamaican criminals whose deportations were halted by the last-minute legal challenge. But now The Mail on Sunday can reveal that police are investigating fresh allegations against Henry. A 25-year-old woman has given a statement to officers alleging that he repeatedly raped her when she was a teenager. Last night she warned that Henry remained a danger to young women, saying: 'He is sick – what he did to me was totally humiliating. 'I was young and he forced himself on me over and over again. I just feel damaged now. I've felt suicidal and self-harmed since what he did to me. He deserves to be in jail. He's a threat to young women and I believe he would do it again.' Henry was described as 'devious and callous' by a judge at Bristol Crown Court in 2013 where he was found guilty of raping a 17-year-old as well as taking naked pictures of her and publishing them online. He was also convicted of abducting and sexually attacking a girl aged 15. After his release last year, Henry was ordered to be deported. But a legal challenge meant that he – and dozens of other Jamaican offenders – remain in the country. Henry is still being held at a detention centre as the wrangle continues. Now police are looking at the new claims. The 25-year-old woman has told Scotland Yard detectives that Henry allegedly groomed her as a 16-year-old, then repeatedly raped her over a period of months. The alleged victim, from North-West London, reported the rape accusation to police in December – before Henry's deportation battle. And earlier this month, the woman gave a second statement. She told The Mail on Sunday she met Henry while she was still at school in 2011 and they began a relationship, but claimed he repeatedly forced her to have sex against her will. She said: 'I met him when I was 16, and then I saw him a second time and he asked if I would be his woman. He would invite me to his house where he would have sex with me. I just felt pressured to do it. He forced himself on me. He didn't stop, even when I shouted at him to get off me. 'I felt intimidated and humiliated. He would always call my phone asking could I come and see him, could I call him. It was so demanding. He wouldn't leave me alone and was always demanding to know where I was and what I was doing.' The woman explained that she had not contacted police immediately after the alleged attacks because she felt scared. Earlier this month, judges ruled that dozens of 'serious criminals' could not be deported to Jamaica following last-minute legal challenges by Left-wing activists. Twenty-five of them were given a reprieve because of mobile-phone signal problems at the detention centres where they were being held. The Court of Appeal ruled that meant they did not have sufficient access to legal support. Scotland Yard said: 'Detectives from the sexual offences team at Wembley are investigating a non-recent allegation of rape.'   
