online
{ By Frances Mulraney For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:15, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8032445/JLos-stunning-bathroom-selfie-inspires-hundreds-moms-grandmothers-post-own.html }
Hundreds of mothers and grandmothers are sharing their inspiring bikini selfies as part of a new body positive movement unintentionally started by Jennifer Lopez.  Dubbed the #JLoChallange, Lopez sparked the heartwarming hashtag after posting her own stunning bathroom selfie to Instagram on Sunday with the caption 'Relaxed and recharged'.  Wearing a white two-piece bikini, Lopez, 50, was highly praised for posting the casual selfie of her impressive body as a mother-of-two who just played the Superbowl Halftime Show days before.  The Instagram post won itself over eight million likes and ignited the new movements as fans joined in and embraced their own bodies.  Instagram user fithealthymambear admitted that she doesn't feel comfortable in a bathing suit but that it was 'all in my head'.  In her caption she told the inspirational story of how she started running a year and a half ago after having two children left her 'exhausted and unmotivated'. Since then, she's run a half marathon and a full marathon and shares that she is 'extremely proud of herself'.  'Regardless of age, size or shape, we CAN be healthy!' joined in user uvaldetxnoexcusemom.  She shared a picture with her c-section scar, describing it as 'the body that created 3 wonderful kids, that has gone through 1 c-section, appendicitis & emergency lacerated intestine from a horrible car accident'. 'Exercise and being active has saved my life,' she added. 'Don't make excuses for your inaction.' 'If she can do it, if I can do it, if thousands of working moms who come in all sizes, shapes and ages can do it - then YOU CAN DO IT!'    User bilybean is also a mother of three and thanked J-Lo for inspiring her to post, adding: 'Our lives doesn’t have to end when we become mothers, it adds to it. We are moms, we’re capable of doing anything we set our minds to.'   I’m over 50! Living my healthiest and happiest life that I can,' said Instagram poster youtips4u_linda, thanking J-Lo for 'inspiring women to embrace their natural beauty'.  The movement helped user syblina00 in celebrating her 43rd birthday as she admitted that she had 'been a bit depressed about this one but it turned out to be a pretty good day'.  'I wanna look like her when I’m 50!' fitblankiss said of J-Lo, posting her photo alongside the singer's and adding that they can 'prove moms and older women can be sexy and strong'.  One 27-year-old mother shared her story of how fitness was helping her to deal with the challenges of staying home as a new mom which she described as an 'emotional rollercoaster'.  'I decided to take at least 20 mins every day to breathe, lay down, do absolutely nothing,' noexcusemomtanyardcove added.  'Yes, its ok to have a dirty house, messy hair, dirty dishes in the sink as long as your head is in the right place.'  'I couldn't quite get the sultry pout down but this will do,' user msnydiac, a 38-year-old mom of three, joked as she posted her own bathroom selfie, declaring that she's 'proud of scars and stripes'.    Another young mom posted her own bathroom selfie with her son in the mix, captioning her photo to say 'I'm still very much a work in progress. It's called a journey for a reason.  'This is what 26 looks like. With three kids, two pregnancies, one csection, one natural.'  Even grandmothers got involved with user Adela Carnaghi, a 36-year-old with three children and one granddaughter, posting: 'Excuses, yes, I have lots and yet I don't let them take control of my life. I make the decision to workout and be positive every single day, it's my way of life.'    Others had a harder time making the decision to post with one woman, 30 and with two sons, saying that she had 'so many conflicting thoughts went through my mind in a matter of seconds. Should I post this picture? 'I am also here to say that no matter your journey, own it! love your body, love your temple, cherish it, kiss it, give it understanding,' she added.    Several of the women wear t-shirts from No Excuse Mom, a free fitness community for mothers which aims to motivate moms to make their health a priority.  'I have led the local No Excuse Mom group for a few years now,' wrote user nikkilancasterfitmom.  'Women with hectic lives and varying amounts of time. I have four kiddos, ages 13, 11, 10, and 7. They could easily be my excuse, but I choose to make them my why. They are why I put my health first and make sure I will be around for many years!' Another No Excuse Mom leader named Vonnie shared her 5am bathroom selfie after she had just finished a morning workout.  'I have a beautiful blended family two step sons 15 and 6 and two daughters 12 and 3,' she wrote.  'I took this random picture right after my 5am gym session in my kids bathroom with dirty clothes on the step stool and toothpaste stains on the mirror to show you all. I AM NOT PERFECT!'  'I am a noexcusemom leader in Austin and am doing my best to live a healthy lifestyle while balancing a full time career and family life,' said user nemaustintx, who is 36 and has a three-year-old.  'Is this a vulnerable post for me? Of course! But this is me, embracing this amazing body that allows me to experience life.'   Many users joked about J-Lo's incredible physique with one user stating 'let's hope I look as good as she does at 50!'  Another posted her photo and branded it #lifeafter40 as she said, 'Let's do the JLo challange.'  'I just turned 40 af in December... I work full-time, I have 4 kids, 2 I gave birth to, they're 19 and almost 17, 2 are mine by marriage and they're almost 12 and 9,' said poster onefitjill.  'In 2014 I weighed in around 230 lbs, I started running and working out a lot. I actually used to be pretty cool. I was the chick bragging about the half marathon I was training for, posting all sorts of gym flexfies, etc...  'But... life often catches us by surprise and we're unsure of how to navigate it. Since then, I've been divorced, switched jobs, re-married and gained about 20 lbs.'  One 38-year-old woman called her post the 'selfie fit mom' adding that she has 'learned how to love myself and accept myself'.  'I decide to be happy no matter what: I am strong, I am enough, I am worth it, I am beautiful.' 
