{ By Jack Elsom For Mailonline   Published:  18:01, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8032585/Hilarious-TripAdvisor-reviews-hole-wall-outside-NatWest-bank.html }
A hole in the wall outside a NatWest bank has been listed among an English town's flagship tourist attractions after a string of sarcastic TripAdvisor reviews. For over a year, jokers in the Derbyshire town of Ilkeston have waged a campaign to ramp the mundane brickwork up the rankings by writing glowing tributes. One such mocking review which has propelled the site up leaderboard is: 'I have spent hours admiring the architectural beauty of the NatWest hole.  'I could easily compare it to the majestic wonder of Stonehenge or even the Pyramids.' Another gushed: 'Can get very busy and you can queue for hours, but it's worth the wait.'  An initial flurry of fake reviews has snowballed into a town-wide effort, with parents piling in with photos of their children playing in the hole.  Their online activity has seen the hole on Bath Street now named as the fourth most popular attraction in Ilkeston. It now ranks above nature trails, churches and the landmark Bennerley Viaduct.   The hole was forged in the wall in the 1970s so customers withdrawing cash can see if anyone is hiding behind the wall, according to the BBC.  Another reviewer wrote: 'Gloriously designed and an absolute paradigm of British architecture. Would definitely pay another visit in the future.' And one wrote: 'Architecturally stunning, built possibly by the Romans as a tribute to mankind’s abilities! Behold it’s wonder.'  One read: 'Excellent hole in the wall, obviously a portal to bigger and better things to come. 'As I approached the wall, it was probably a good day in hole in the wall days, as the sun was streaming through. 'Everyone should visit this monumental hole, to experience the thrill of climbing through it.' TripAdvisor ranks attractions based on the number of positive and negative reviews it attracts, through five-star rating system.  
