{ By Glenn Garner For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:41, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8032409/Wendy-William-appears-Insta-official-new-boyfriend-amid-backlash-Amie-Harwick-joke.html }
Wendy Williams has had quite the year, with her tumultuous divorce from Kevin Hunter. But the talk show host has teased fans and viewers with talks of a new man in her life.  Wendy appeared to make her relationship Instagram official with jeweler William Selby (aka Big Will, aka Willdaboss) after sharing some flirty photos online Saturday. The 55-year-old posted a photo from Friday night as she cozied up to her new man while in the studio with hip hop artist Blac Papi.  The apparent couple was spotted out that night, Williams walking arm-in-arm with her new beau. They even coordinated their looks for the outing, Will sporting a brown overcoat while Williams donned an ankle-length fur trimmed in brown. She put on a romantic display with Willdaboss as they were seen dining out at Aroma Trattoria. Their date appeared to end on a less than friendly note, as Selby went in for a hug, but Williams gave him the cold shoulder and walked away.  Williams recently revealed on her show that she had a new man who gifted her a heart-shaped diamond necklace for Valentine's Day. He seemed to confirm that he was the mystery man when he posted the clip, captioned: 'V-Day Special for the incomparable @wendyshow.'  Selby also served as her arm candy Thursday, accompanying her to the premiere of Spotify's documentary New Cash Order.  Although Williams seems focused on her relationship news, she's still facing backlash for a tasteless joke about Amie Harwick. An ex of Drew Carey, the sex therapist was allegedly murdered by another ex Gareth Pursehouse (against whom she filed a restraining order) when she was thrown from her third-floor balcony. While discussing her death, Williams made a reference to Carey's hosting gig on The Price Is Right, saying 'Come on down!' In addition to the mountain of Twitter backlash, she's also been called out by Amie's brother Chris Harwick. He told Fox News: 'Domestic violence is something no one should be joking about. This is a difficult time for my family and for Wendy Williams to make light of this tragedy is very upsetting to us and extremely distasteful. 'My sister worked tirelessly for domestic violence victims and women’s rights. Wendy Williams should apologize publicly to my family for her comment.' The joke came just days after she released an apology video for telling gay men to 'stop wearing our skirts and our heels.' She previously came under fire for making yet another insensitive joke about Joaquin Phoenix's cleft palate.  Meanwhile, Williams finalized her divorce from husband-of-22-years Kevin Hunter last month, after taking a sabbatical to focus on her family and her own mental health.  
