{ By James Gant For Mailonline   Published:  15:53, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/sportsnews/article-8032393/Tragedy-strikes-FC-Bayerns-win-Paderborn-niece-visitors-Streli-Mamba-dies.html }
Paderborn striker Streli Mamba's niece died after collapsing in the Allianz Arena as he played against Bayern Munich on Friday. Attempts were made to resuscitate the 14-month-old, but she was taken to Munich hospital and tragically passed away. Paderborn said in a statement: 'The girl was our player Streli Mamba's niece. The entire SCP07 (SC Paderborn 07) is deeply shaken and expresses its deepest sympathy to the family. 'The SCP07 asks to respect the privacy of the player's family and, like the family, will not comment on this incident.' Bayern added: 'A tragic death occurred in the Allianz Arena during yesterday's Bundesliga match between FC Bayern and SC Paderborn. 'A 14-month-old girl collapsed in the stadium. After attempts at resuscitation, the girl was taken to a clinic in Munich by ambulance, but could not be rescued and died. The girl was the niece of the Paderborn player Streli Mamba. 'The entire FC Bayern is deeply shaken and expresses its deepest sympathy to the girl's family.' It came after Robert Lewandowski spared Bayern's blushes as his late winner secured a 3-2 victory over bottom-placed Paderborn. Lewandowski's second goal - his 25th in 23 league matches and 38th in all competitions this season - two minutes from time extended Bayern's Bundesliga lead to four points. Bayern had taken a 25th-minute lead when Serge Gnabry found room in a crowded goalmouth to fire home his 15th goal of the season. But Dennis Srbeny punished Manuel Neuer's rush of blood - the goalkeeper racing from his penalty area - to level a minute before the break. Lewandowski was twice foiled by Paderborn goalkeeper Leopold Zingerle in the space of 60 seconds before sidefooting home Gnabry's cutback 20 minutes from time. Paderborn equalised five minutes later when Neuer parried Dennis Jastrzembski's drive and Sven Michel poached the rebound, but Lewandowski had the final word with a simple tap-in.   
