{ By Rianne Addo For Mailonline   Published:  12:15, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8041955/Zayn-Maliks-feud-Jake-Paul-sparked-hotel-run-in.html }
 Zayn Malik's feud with Jake Paul was reportedly sparked by a hotel run-in during the Tyson Fury v Deontay Wilder match in Las Vegas on Saturday. Sources have claimed the One Direction singer, 27, was approached to party by the drunk YouTuber, 23, alongside his pals following the boxing fight.  Declining the offer, the musician allegedly fired back: 'I don't give a f**k if you have a good night', before returning to his room at the MGM Grand. Insiders close to Jake - who is said to have Jake narrowly avoided a phyiscal altercation with a member of the crowd - told TMZ: 'Jake was making his way back to his room when he spotted Zayn and co. getting off the elevator. Jake asked if they were partying.  'Jake was taken aback by the abruptness of the remark. He ran into Zayn again in the hotel hallway a bit later and attempted to clear the air about their spat. Zayn yelled "Who the f*** do you think you are?!" at Jake, before asking if he wanted to "test" him.' However, sources close to the What Makes You Beautiful hitmaker reportedly told the publication: 'Jake was drunkenly pestering Zayn to come party, even though Zayn had already said no.' MailOnline has contacted Zayn and Jake's representatives for further comment.  On Monday, Jake broke his silence on their feud as he branded himself a 'f*****g idiot' and deleted all his tweets about his encounter with the British singer. The social media influencer wrote: 'someone needs to take my phone when i'm drunk because I am a f*****g idiot'.    Over the weekend, Gigi Hadid jumped to boyfriend Zayn's defence after Jake claimed the belter told him to 'f**k off for no reason'.   In an uncharacteristically foul-mouthed exchange, the supermodel, 24, called the online personality 'embarrassing' and insisted her on-off beau is 'unbothered' by his 'irrelevant ugly a**'.  Bizaardvark actor Jake recalled his encounter with Zayn as he claimed he was caught off guard by the musician's 'attitude' when they met.  He told his 3.7 million Twitter followers: 'almost had to clap up zane from 1 direction because he is a little guy and has an attitude and basically told me to f**k off for no reason when I was being nice to him....  'zane ik you’re reading this... stop being angry cause u came home alone to ur big a** hotel room hahaha.' [sic] Jake continued to slam the Pillowtalk hitmaker as he added: 'bro he literally started yelling and freaking the f**k out. “you wanna test me mate”. lol I feel bad for childhood stars.' [sic] Stepping in to support her man - who is rarely active on social media - from across the globe, Gigi responded: 'Lol cause he doesn’t care to hang w you and your embarrassing crew of YouTube groupies ..?  'Home alone with his best friends like a respectful king cause he has me, sweetie. Unbothered by your irrelevant ugly a**. Go to bed ...'. [sic]   In the romance department, Jake recently hit headlines after splitting from his 'wife' of just a few months, Tana Mongeau, who was recently spotted putting on a cosy display with his older brother Logan, 24.  Meanwhile, Gigi and Zayn confirmed their reunion in January nearly a year after ending their three-year relationship. The pair seem to be stronger than ever as the blonde recently opened up about wanting to start a family with the hunk. In a recent interview with i-D Magazine’s The Icons and Idols Issue, Gigi shared: 'I think that as I get older... well one day I'll start a family and I don't know if I will always be modelling. 'I love the creative side of fashion, it's so fulfilling. The people I work with make me so happy, I'm so lucky to be around them. But who knows? Maybe I'll take up full time cooking!'  The showbiz couple first dated in November 2015, three months after he called off his engagement to Little Mix singer Perrie Edwards.  After just over two years together, the couple confirmed their break-up on Twitter in March 2018. The IMG model and the musician rekindled their romance a month later as they were pictured packing on the PDA in images obtained by TMZ. Gigi and Zayn kept the status of their relationship low-key from August 2018, five months before they officially split.  Prior to their romance, the What Makes You Beautiful hitmaker dated fellow singer Perrie, 26, from early 2012 to July 2015, while Vogue coverstar Gigi was in a relationship with Australian musician Cody Simpson from 2013 to 2015.   
