{ By Luke Andrews For Mailonline   Published:  14:22, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8032167/Coronavirus-bus-drivers-DONT-hazmats-evacuated-cruise-passengers-wear-face-masks.html }
Coronavirus bus drivers still haven't worn protective hazmat suits in Britain as they drove 32 British and European cruise passengers wearing face masks to two-week quarantine.  Exposed drivers and medical officers were pictured taking the tourists, who were on-board the coronavirus-stricken Diamond Princess, on the 217-mile trip to Arrowe Park Hospital in the Wirral after their evacuation flight touched down in Boscombe Down, Wiltshire, this morning.  Bus drivers in France wore virus-blocking face masks as they drove 34 French citizens evacuated from Wuhan to quarantine yesterday, while drivers in Japan and Canada were seen wearing the protective masks as they drove passengers from the doomed vessel. It is the second time UK authorities have failed to ask bus drivers to wear face masks after 83 evacuated Britons from Wuhan and their driver were not required to wear the protective masks for their 172-mile trip to quarantine. A fleet of coaches was positioned to take the passengers to quarantine at Arrowe Park Hospital, Wirral, when their flight touched down this morning. Two drivers were both pictured without a hazmat suit and face masks, while a medical officer sitting in the bus was also pictured not wearing a face mask.  More than half of the 78 UK nationals who were trapped on the doomed pleasure cruise refused to board the evacuation flight. Four infected Britons remain in hospital in Japan, and are accompanied by a handful of loved ones. Passengers were met off the ship by officials wearing hazmat suits and face masks as their quarantine came to an end yesterday, before they were bussed to Tokyo's Haneda Airport.  An 87-year-old man and 84-year-old woman, both from Japan, have died after contracting coronavirus on the ship. There are at least 630 cases from the vessel reported so far. Two Australians evacuated from the Diamond Princess tested positive for coronavirus in Darwin yesterday.  Public Health England told MailOnline that its experts are 'well-trained at assessing risk' and 'are adopting approaches that they have used in a number of emerging infections to reduce the risk to the public'. All passengers were checked after arriving in the UK, they said, and none displayed any symptoms of coronavirus, 2019-nCoV. Medics travelling with the group were wearing PPE as a precaution in case anyone was taken ill during the journey. Passengers were also seated at least two metres away from the driver which meant that, according to Public Health England, they did not pose a risk to the person behind the wheel.  At the end of last month authorities did not require drivers to wear face masks as they evacuated the 83 Britons from Wuhan. They were even seen greeting suspected patients with handshakes at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire, before embarking on the lengthy drive to the north west. The Department of Health said at the time that coach drivers - who would not be quarantined - would be wearing 'appropriate protective equipment', but images emerged of them wearing none despite being sat beside hazmat-wearing medical workers. They were asked to drive those brought back from China without any masks or specialist clothing – and will now take a period of paid leave away from others. A spokesman for Horseman Coaches, which provided the vehicles for the first evacuation, said their staff had been reassured by government officials that they did not need to wear face masks for the journey because passengers had been quarantined for eight days in China and were cleared of symptoms before the flight. However, the Department of Health rubbished the eight-day claim and said no protective gear was required because the risk to drivers was ‘very low.’ British couple David and Sally Abel, who have been sharing updates of their time on the cruise online and been confirmed as having coronavirus, did not board yesterday's flight back to the UK. Mr Abel shared a Facebook post on Thursday saying he was 'thinking of all the Brits flying home' from his hospital bed. Ministers have been repeatedly blasted for its dire handling of the planned evacuation, with eight countries having already managed an airlift – including the US who flew home 300 residents on February 16 and 17. Brits trapped on the cruise – which has been docked off the coast of Yokohama since February 3 – accused Number of 10 of abandoning them, saying their treatment had been 'pretty bad' and the repatriation effort 'slow'.  
