online
{ By Laura Fox For Mailonline   Published:  12:36, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8032047/Kate-Beckinsale-flaunts-toned-physique-sexy-purple-lingerie.html }
She's no stranger to flaunting her incredible physique in a glamorous gown. And Kate Beckinsale was proudly displaying her toned figure in revealing purple lingerie as she took to Instagram to post a sultry snap. The actress, 46, looked sensational in the skimpy two-piece as she posed for the gorgeous image. Kate showed off her jaw-dropping figure in the revealing purple lingerie as he struck a dramatic pose in the doorway. The Underworld star let her brunette tresses tumble down her back in loose waves, as the look displayed every inch of her slender pins.  The post was captioned: 'When a door closes, a window opens.or it should in a bathroom, if people have any manners at all.'  Kate's post comes just hours after her ex-husband Len Wiseman was spotted exiting Paris Hilton's birthday bash with Gossip Girl star Jessica Szohr. The star was married to Len from 2004 to 2016, and he directed her performances in the first two Underworld films. Kate's post also comes after her interview with Women's Health where she shares insight on how she stays so in touch with herself.  'I'm very connected to my body, so if I'm going to experience stress, I'm probably going to experience it physically,' she revealed. 'So it's usually a good idea for me to go do something physical to get rid of it. I kind of have to think of myself as a horse or something—time for a run around the paddock.'  She also revealed that works out six days a week and sticks to a heavy-protein based diet to stay in shape. 'I just got into trampolining, and it's the greatest thing. There's this woman, Lauren Kleban, who does LEKFit, and I think she's a genius because she streams classes online. It makes you feel kind of jolly!'  The actress also admitted that she attributes yoga to one of the many reasons she has 'never been injured while doing an action movie.' 
