{ By Ellie May Donohoe For Mailonline   Published:  11:02, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8031837/Loose-Women-star-Coleen-Nolan-reveals-libido-died-not-sex-THREE-years.html }
Coleen Nolan has candidly discussed how her libido has 'died' following her divorce from husband, Ray Fensome.   The Loose Women star, 54, spoke with The Mirror about how she is finding her newfound single life, and that despite not being interested in younger men, she still gets sent explicit texts from '20-somethings online.' The star separated from her husband in 2018 after nearly ten years of marriage.  She told the publication: 'This is the first time I've been properly single. If I was to miss anything, it would be the intimacy. 'I'm super romantic, so I miss the romance. Kissing, hugging, sitting down watching a film together – but the actual act, no.' The presenter admitted she has not had sex in three years, not since before her divorce due to having zero interest. She said: 'The Loose Women told me it was the menopause, that it can make you lose your libido. Well, mine's just died, it's left home.'  According to The NHS, menopause is a 'natural part of ageing that usually occurs between 45 and 55 years of age, as a woman's oestrogen levels decline. In the UK, the average age for a woman to reach the menopause is 51'. Unlike co-hosts such as Carol McGiffIn, 60, who recently married husband Mark Cassidy, 36, who is 22 years her junior, Coleen said she would much rather an older man.  However, despite her having no interest the former CBB star said she still gets regular messages online from '20-somethings' who send her explicit photos. The mum-of-three called this 'bizarre' and said 'I don't want to see that thank you. Do they think I'm loaded or do they think I'm really sad and lonely and I'll be flattered to have a 25-year-old on my arm?'  Coleen's interview came after her sister Linda, 60, revealed she hasn't had sex in the 12 years since her husband Brian Hudson's death in 2017 from skin cancer. The TV star admitted she has 'issues' with her body and would like to lose the weight she gained through her own cancer battle. The Loose Women panellist - who has scars from a mastectomy and reconstructive surgery - confessed that, although she would like to have sex, she's 'not climbing the walls.' Now 12 years after her husband's death, the widow confessed she is ready to find a new love to give her companionship for the next chapter of her life.   
