online
{ By Daily Mail Australia Reporter   Published:  10:48, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8031933/Former-Married-Sight-star-Melissa-Lucarelli-stuns-Meu-Jardim-opening.html }
She was one of the fan favourites from last year's season of Married At First Sight. And on Saturday, Melissa Lucarelli turned heads at the VIP grand opening of the Meu Jardim luxury restaurant in Sydney. The 39-year-old confidently flaunted her sensational figure in a sparkly Meshki mini-dress with a daring thigh-high split that showed off her long legs. She accentuated her trim pins with a pair of clear stilettos, and styled her brown locks in long voluminous waves. Melissa made the most of the star-studded event, catching up with The Bachelor villain Monique Morley. She wasn't the only Married At First Sight star in attendance, with Natasha Spencer showing up without her on-screen 'husband' Mikey Pembroke.  Melissa recently opened up about her own disastrous stint on MAFS. Penning a column for The Latch, the talent manager wrote that she and her husband Dino Hira were 'totally mismatched' by the show's relationship experts. 'Dino and I literally had in common,' she wrote, candidly. 'Everything from our personalities to our belief systems; our values and our interests, and even the way we communicate,' she continued. 'While I had no idea what to expect of the experience, one thing I hadn't counted on was being totally mismatched.' The brunette beauty finished by saying the experiment was challenging mentally, emotionally and physically. Melissa also took a swipe at Channel Nine's publicity department, claiming that a promotional photo of her for the series had her looking 'cross-eyed' and that her official bio painted her out as 'desperate'. Elsewhere, she made a list of golden rules which she believed would help the current crop of Married At First Sight stars. She also encouraged the new crop of contestants not to eat on camera and to avoid paying attention to trolls online. 
