{ By Alisha Rouse and Zoe Zaczek For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  10:30, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8031865/NRL-star-Josh-Curran-drops-F-bomb-live-air-Stars-clash.html }
NRL star Josh Curran shocked and amused fans by swearing live on air during Saturday night's Indigenous All-Stars clash. The footy player, 20, was being interviewed by Johnathan Thurston during the game's first break when he accidentally dropped the F-bomb. The gaffe did not go unnoticed by amused viewers, who also praised the star his candid reaction and for being the game's first try scorer for Australia. Walking together on the pitch, Thurston spoke to the clearly out-of-breath and excited player after a successful start to the match. 'Your first appearance and you score on the big stage, how good?' the former player asked him. 'Yeah mate, I was just pushing through,' Curran replied. Praising the crowd, he accidentally swore when trying to express the brilliant atmosphere at the match on the Gold Coast.  'Joshy Kerr got a good off-load away, but yeah, the crowd's amazing man,' he said. 'F*****g -  oops, sorry'. The player covered his mouth with his hand and laughed at his mistake, while a clearly surprised but amused Thurston carried on with the interview. 'You could hear it on the field, it's good,' Curran continued, while laughter rang out in the background at his gaffe. He had just scored the first Indigenous try of the match.  'No worries enjoy the rest of the match mate,' an amused Thurston continued. 'We can beep that out later', the commentator quickly said.  'Yes Josh Curran,' one fan wrote online. 'First try scorer for the Indigenous side and drops an F-Bomb on live TV. Thanks mate.'  'Josh Curran just dropped the F-Bomb live, that'll do me,' another added. The inspiring night of sport began as the nine-year-old who was bullied for his dwarfism led out the Indigenous All-Stars NRL team.  Australian schoolboy Quaden Bayles shot to fame as an anti-bullying ambassador after his mother Yarraka filmed him crying in the family car on Wednesday after being bullied at school. The Murri boy was invited to walk the Indigenous team onto the pitch at Cbus Super Stadium, on the Gold Coast, as they took on the Maori All-Stars on Saturday. The crowd erupted in cheers as Quaden entered the field hand-in-hand with captain Joel Thompson at about 8pm. He was dressed in an All-Stars jersey, donned black noise-cancelling headphones and clung to the match ball as he strode into the middle of the pitch. 'Couldn't help but get watery eyes and a lump in the throat seeing Quaden Bayles smiling and leading out the Indigenous All-Stars,' one viewer wrote on Twitter. 'Goosebumps watching Quaden Bayles walk out the Indigenous All-Stars,' wrote another.   
