{ By Alisha Rouse For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  10:10, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8031823/Andrew-Johns-Erin-Molan-air-NRL-Stars-awkward-exchange-feud.html }
Their reported feud rocked the NRL, amid rumours they purposefully avoid one another both on and off camera. But Andrew Johns and Erin Molan were brought together on Saturday night in an awkward moment at the NRL All-Stars footy game. News of the pair's feud became public last year, and they have not appeared on camera together since the 2019 NRL telecast in October.  Johns is understood to have told Channel 9 sport bosses last year he no longer wanted to share a studio with Ms Molan. 'He just doesn't like working with her,' a television source told Daily Mail Australia at the time. That source said Johns' biggest gripes were that Ms Molan giggled and spoke over him and other Nine personalities when they were talking about football. But they seemed to put their feud behind them on Saturday as Ms Molan, presenting the All Stars game from the Gold Coast, introduced Johns and their co-presenter, former NRL star Johnathan Thurston. Thurston was, crucially, stood between the pair.  'I'm Erin Molan, and it's great to have your company - and a very good evening to Andrew Johns and Jonathan Thurston, great to see you both,' she said. She then went on to ask Thurston about the importance of playing in the Indigenous All Stars game, after he played in five of the fixtures. 'It's a chance to represent your bloodline and your culture,' Thurston said. 'All the traditions, your family's extremely proud of this moment. And when you get to pull on that jersey, it fills you with a sense of pride that you're representing your grandparent and ancestors who walked this land for thousands of years.' Turning to her reported rival, she then called Johns his well-known nickname, 'Joey', when asking him about the game. 'Joey, it's a great cultural celebration but with the calibre of talent it's going to be some great footie as well,' Ms Molan said.  'In indigenous communities, rugby league is like a religion,' he replied. 'And you see the way they play footie, they've grown up just playing backyard footie.  'Indigenous player I've played with and against, they have a skill which is not manufactured.' Ms Molan politely nodded as he colleague discussed the game.  Another source close to Johns said he did not know when the problems between the pair began but the footballing great would not be backing down from their row. 'Joey is a stubborn bastard,' the source said. 'If somewhere along the line she's p***ed him off he'll probably carry it around for the rest of his life.' Daily Mail Australia understands Johns point-blank refused requests by the Nine publicity department to put his name to gushing statements supporting Ms Molan. He also told the network he would not pretend he had no problem with her. Johns has been frustrated that Nine executives were unwilling during the NRL season to address his concerns about Ms Molan, the first source said. She bore the brunt of the backlash from fans who sided with Johns as a rugby league Immortal during the feud last year. The presenter had to endure vicious online attacks including death threats and other abuse sent to her.  Former NRL star-turned media personality Beau Ryan said Ms Molan had been left 'broken' by years of abuse on social media and he could not speak highly enough of the way she continued to front the cameras. Legendary NRL commentator Ray Warren also defended Molan's ability and the need for more women in broadcasting. 
