online
{ By Associated Press   Published:  09:18, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8031825/PHOTO-GALLERY-A-selection-pictures-past-week.html }
Here's your look at highlights from the weekly AP photo report, a gallery featuring a mix of front-page photography, the odd image you might have missed and lasting moments our editors think you should see. This week's gallery includes a demonstrator doing a handstand at the site of a protest in Baghdad, Iraq; a dramatic crash during the Daytona 500 car race; and Democratic presidential candidates vying for attention during their debate in Las Vegas. ___ This gallery contains photos from the week of Feb. 15-21, 2020. See the latest AP photo galleries: https://apimagesblog.com ___ Civilians flee from Idlib toward the north to find safety inside Syria near the border with Turkey, on Saturday, Feb. 15, 2020. An offensive by President Bashar Assad's forces is aimed at recapturing remaining opposition-held areas in northwestern Syria. (AP Photo) Follow AP photographers on Twitter: http://twitter.com/AP/lists/ap-photographers Follow AP Images on Twitter: http://twitter.com/AP_Images Visit AP Images online: http://www.apimages.comhttp://www.apimages.com/ Israeli soldiers use pepper spray on a Palestinian demonstrator near the Jewish settlement Yitzhar, near the West Bank city of Nablus, on Friday, Feb. 21, 2020. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced Thursday he was pushing ahead with the construction of 5,000 new Jewish homes in key areas of east Jerusalem, where critics say additional building could cut Palestinian residents off from the rest of the West Bank. (AP Photo/Majdi Mohammed). San Diego Padres' Jered Eickhoff warms up by throwing a ball against a wall during spring training baseball practice Tuesday, Feb. 18, 2020, in Peoria, Ariz. (AP Photo/Charlie Riedel) A protester does a handstand while security forces close the site of a demonstration in downtown Baghdad, Iraq, Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020. Anti-government protesters took to the streets starting in October in the capital and southern Iraq to decry rampant government corruption, poor services and unemployment. (AP Photo/Khalid Mohammed) Ryan Newman (6) goes airborne after crashing into Corey LaJoie (32) during the NASCAR Daytona 500 auto race Monday, Feb. 17, 2020, at Daytona International Speedway in Daytona Beach, Fla. Newman did not suffer life-threatening injuries in the incident. (AP Photo/Chris O'Meara) President Donald Trump arrives to speak at a campaign rally at Veterans Memorial Coliseum, Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020, in Phoenix. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci) From left, Democratic presidential candidates, former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg, Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass.; and Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., participate in a Democratic presidential primary debate Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020, in Las Vegas. Seven casino-resorts are among 200 caucus locations statewide that will host the presidential caucuses on Saturday. (AP Photo/John Locher) Thousands of pro-choice activists, including feminist groups from the U.S. and Chile, demonstrate in favor of decriminalizing abortion, outside Congress in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020. Waving their iconic green handkerchiefs, the demonstrators are demanding the issue be included in this year's parliamentary agenda. (AP Photo/Natacha Pisarenko) A girl looks out of a bus window in Caracas, Venezuela, Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020. The debate over fresh U.S. sanctions aimed at forcing out Venezuela's Nicolás Maduro played out Wednesday across the crisis-stricken South American nation. Families have been split up with at least 4.5 million Venezuelans fleeing crumbling public services. (AP Photo/Ariana Cubillos) Broken glass from the window of a car in which a man was shot lies scattered on the street in Hanau, Germany on Friday, Feb. 21, 2020, two days after a 43-year-old German shot and killed several people at several locations in the Frankfurt suburb. Tobias Rathjen had left rambling texts and videos in which he espoused racist views, called for genocide and claimed to have been under surveillance since birth. (AP Photo/Michael Probst) Seminarian Ranjuna Perera from the Archdiocese of Colombo, Sri Lanka, returns to his seat after receiving communion at St. Charles Borromeo Seminary in Wynnewood, Pa., on Wednesday, Feb. 5, 2020. Seminarians speak with excitement of becoming Catholic priests who minister to the faithful at defining moments of their lives. (AP Photo/Wong Maye-E) Ice-covered junk vehicles lie in a heap at the Northern Metal Recycling plant in Becker, Minn., on Wednesday morning, Feb. 19, 2020, as firefighters work at the site of a fire that had been burning for more than 24 hours. (David Joles/Star Tribune via AP) 
