online
{ By Alisha Rouse For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:57, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8031597/Rapper-Cardi-B-defends-bullied-nine-year-old-boy-Quaden-vile-trolls-claim-adult.html }
Rapper Cardi B has defended bullied Australian schoolkid Quaden Bayles, after cruel trolls accused him of secretly being an adult. The nine-year-old, who has dwarfism, won the nation's heart after a viral video showed the bullied youngster threatening to kill himself.  Quaden was mercilessly mocked by children at school, prompting his mother to share the shocking video online.  The youngster has since received an outpouring of support from the public and celebrities, including Hugh Jackman. But bullies have now moved online, spreading a conspiracy theory that the youngster is secretly an adult.  'Everyone keeps saying he's lying about his age', American rapper Cardi B told her 59.3 million Instagram followers. 'I really don't think he's lying about his age.      'And just because there's videos of him flossing money and acting all gangster, and acting all cool and everything, it doesn't mean that kids do not pick on him. 'Come on, just because he's acting a certain type of way and trying to be cool, his parents are probably trying to boost up his ego and make him act a certain type of way for Instagram.  'You motherf*****s be acting up for Instagram every single day. Y'all be acting like you've got money everyday and y'all broke.  'Y'all b*****s act like y'all broke. Like ya got money and ya broke.' She is the latest in a string of high-profile celebrities to come out in support of Quaden. His mother, Yarraka Bayles, posted the video online earlier this week, and it has now been viewed more than 10 million times. 'This is the impact that bullying has on a nine-year-old kid that just wants to go to school, get an education and have fun,' she said. Achondroplasia is a disorder of bone growth that prevents the changing of cartilage (particularly in the long bones of the arms and legs) to bone. It is characterised by limited range of motion at the elbows, large head size (macrocephaly), small fingers, and normal intelligence.  Achondroplasia can cause health complications such as interruption of breathing (apnea), obesity, recurrent ear infections and an exaggerated inward curve of the lumbar spine. People with dwarfism have a normal life expectancy. Source: US Department of Health Speaking to indigenous Australian TV channel NITV in the wake of the viral footage, Quaden encouraged others to stand up for themselves when face-to-face with a bully. 'If you get bullied, just stand up for yourself and don't listen to what they say,' he said. The nine-year-old believes parents should educate their children about people with disabilities to prevent further bullying. 'The parents should make their kids be nice to people with disabilities,' he said. Ms Bayles said her 'strong' son wants other people to know how he feels and no longer wants to 'suffer in silence'. 'It's 2020 and bullying is at an all-time high and especially within our communities, people don't understand that if you're Indigenous, you're already copping discrimination and racism,' she said.   The video has sparked an outpouring of sympathy for the nine-year-old from members of the public and celebrities including Hugh Jackman. 'Quaden you are stronger than you know, mate. And no matter what, you have a friend in me,' Jackman said in a video posted to his Twitter account. Quaden will also lead the Indigenous All-Stars out onto the field in their rugby league clash with the Maori All Stars in Queensland on Saturday.  They will take on New Zealand Maori Kiwis at CBUS Super Stadium on the Gold Coast. The nine-year-old was snapped with NRL star Latrell Mitchell, who donned a South Sydney Rabbitohs jersey after signing with the club for the 2020 season. Quaden's mother Yarraka shared the distressing video which sparked the outpouring of support after picking her son up from school on Wednesday. The schoolboy, who has achondroplasia - the most common type of dwarfism - told his mother: 'Give me a rope, I want to kill myself.' In the video, which has been viewed more than three million times, Quaden also said: 'I just want to stab myself in the heart... I want someone to kill me.' Quaden also scratched at his neck and said: 'I want to die... I want to scratch myself.' Ms Bayles shared the original video publicly on Facebook in a bid to raise awareness about the impact of bullying. She said she normally tries to keep distressing moments such as this private but felt she had been left with no choice but to go public. 'We try to be as strong as positive as possible and only share the highlights... but this is how bullying affects a nine-year-old kid,' she said in the video. At the start of the five-minute clip, Ms Bayles said: 'I just picked my son up from school, witnessed a bullying episode, rang the principal and I want people to know this is the effect bullying has. This is what bullying does. 'So can you please educate your children, your families, your friends because all it takes is one more instance... and you wonder why kids are killing themselves.' 'This is the impact bullying has a nine-year-old kid who just wants to go to school, get an education and have fun but every single fricking day something happens. 'Another episode another bullying, another taunt, another name-calling.' As Quaden sobbed, Ms Bayles asked for help from anyone viewing the footage. 'So is there any advice or support or anything that other parents have done? 'I've got some good advice but I need more, I want people to know how much it is hurting us as a family,' she said as her voice quivered. The mother did not go into specifics about the latest bullying incident, but previously said her son was called a 'midget' by his class mates. Last year Quaden's mother told the Courier-Mail that he first tried to kill himself three years ago when he was just six. 'I was so shocked. I honestly didn't think he would even know what or how at six years old,' she said. The mother, an Aboriginal rights activist, said her son has made several attempts to take his own life. 'I've explained to him that once you go, there's no coming back, you're gone forever, but he still kept trying,' the mother said. She also said Quaden has been affected by the death of his grandfather and his younger half-brother, who was stillborn. 'He thought if he went to heaven, then he'd be with his Pop and his little brother,' she said. She told the newspaper she was proud that she had spoken publicly about asking for help.   
