online
{ By Sahar Mourad For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:52, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8031423/Quaden-Bayles-accepts-offer-train-martial-arts-champion-Chatri-Sityodtong-Singapore.html }
Quaden Bayles has been taken up an offer to travel to Singapore and train in mixed martial arts. The nine-year-old boy appeared in an emotional video filmed by his mother Yarraka showing him breaking down in tears after he was subjected to bullying. Since then, celebrities and sports stars including Hugh Jackman, broadcaster Piers Morgan and rugby league star Johnathan Thurston have shared messages of support.  Martial arts champion and ONE Championship founder Chatri Sityodtong offered to fly Quaden and his family on an all-expenses paid trip to Singapore.   Sityodtong praised Quaden's strength and invited him to be taught martial arts in a video posted online on Friday. 'I just want to let you know you have a friend out here in Asia and I know you're going through incredible suffering and pain. I can't imagine what you're going through,' Sityodtong said.  'But I want you to know that God gives the toughest battles to his bravest and strongest soldiers and for sure you're one of them. 'And I want you to know that your pain and suffering today is going to be your strength tomorrow.  'One day you're going to rise above and have the strength, compassion and empathy because everything you've gone through to help others. I really believe it.'  He then extended an offer to Quaden and his family to learn martial arts in his 'bully-proof' school.   'I would also like to extend to you and your family an all expenses paid trip to Singapore.  'I own a wonderful martial arts school called Evolve Mix Martial Arts. It has an incredible children's program that bully-proofs kids. 'If you have time this summer I'd love to invite you and your family as my personal guests to Singapore.' He ended the video on a strong note asking parents and children to put a stop to bullying.   'To the parents and children out there, lets stop this bullying. Lets be kind to one another. The world needs it now more than ever.' Quaden's mother accepted the invitation with Mr Sityodtong excited to train the youngster. 'He has graciously accepted my invitation to come to Singapore for an all-expenses-paid vacation so Quaden can learn martial arts at EVOLVE,' he tweeted.  Yarraka shared the distressing video which sparked the outpouring of support after picking her son up from school on Wednesday.  The schoolboy, who has achondroplasia - the most common type of dwarfism - told his mother: 'Give me a rope, I want to kill myself.'  In the video, which has been viewed more than three million times, Quaden also said: 'I just want to stab myself in the heart... I want someone to kill me.'  Quaden also scratched at his neck and said: 'I want to die... I want to scratch myself.'  Now, he will also lead the Indigenous All-Stars out onto the field in their rugby league clash with the Maori All Stars in Queensland on Saturday.  A fundraiser started by comedian Brad Williams to send Quaden to Disneyland has raised more than $400,000. While trolls to spread rumours, Quaden has received an outpouring of international support, including from Hugh Jackman and comedian Brad Williams. Williams, who also has dwarfism, created a fundraiser for Quaden after hearing the upsetting news that he was bullied at school.  The fundraiser has now garnered $434,554 from more than 19,000 supporters since the American comedian started the GoFundMe page on Thursday.     
