online
{ By Joe Scek For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:14, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8030737/Georgia-Fowler-slops-kiss-new-beau-new-couple-continue-romantic-ski-trip-Aspen.html }
Victoria's Secret model Georgia Fowler and restaurateur Nathan Dalah have only just confirmed their romance, after weeks of speculation. And on Friday, the couple looked ever so smitten as they continued their romantic ski trip in Aspen, Colorado, in the US. The pair cosied up together for a sweet snap, which Georgia, 27, shared to her Instagram Story.  The brunette beauty posted a series of snaps to Instagram from the exclusive St. Regis Resort, with one photo showing her new beau kissing her on the cheek.  In the snap, Georgia showed off her natural complexion and striking blue eyes, as she looked toward the camera.  The pair have been enjoying a trip to Aspen, with Georgia documenting their adventures online with fans.   However, despite her catwalk experience, it appeared that the model was no match for the slopes - as she shared a clip to her story showing her taking a tumble. Last week, Nathan confirmed his romance with Georgia on social media, calling her his 'girlfriend' and sharing a series of snaps of the pair kissing and packing on the PDA at a recent event. In the Instagram photos, the couple looked smitten and happy as they got close. In one snap, Georgia, who was wearing a black and white feathered outfit, smiled as Nathan poked out his tongue for a kiss. Earlier this month, The Sydney Morning Herald reported that the pair couldn't keep their hands off each other during a recent date at Mackenzies Beach in Sydney. Nathan is also believed to have joined Georgia at a charity dinner in December and they recently holidayed together in the Northern Territory. In the past, Georgia has been romantically linked to Hollywood stars including Nick Jonas and Leonardo DiCaprio. She also dated singer Harry Styles in late 2015 and was supposedly the inspiration behind his song Kiwi. 
