{ By Deirdre Simonds For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:08, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8031001/Whitney-Port-looks-effortlessly-chic-black-leather-pants-grocery-shopping-Los-Angeles.html }
Whitney Port displayed her elegant street style while running errands in Los Angeles on Friday.  The 34-year-old reality star, who frequently shops her local Farmer's Market, beamed while picking up groceries at Bristol Farms in a white turtleneck and narrow cat eye frames.  While stocking up on all the essentials, she donned a pair of eye-catching black leather pants, with a long zipper in the front and thin white stripes.  The blonde beauty kept her long tresses in a high ponytail and tucked her over-sized sweater into her trousers.  While returning to her car in a pair of nude flats, Port could be seen carrying just one bag and a tiger striped purse.   The star appeared to have grabbed a snack, as she tucked away some utensils and paper napkins while entering the parking lot.  The Hills star looked comfortable and confident, as she made a solo outing, after recently defending her son against hateful comments directed at his hair.  Port, who shares 2-year-old Sonny Sanford Rosenman with her husband Tim Rosenman, slammed 'homophobic' messages' in a recent YouTube video that addresses an uptick of nasty comments.   'How you dress is an expression of you and your personality and no one should tell you there is one way to do it,' Whitney said, revealing her zero tolerance for online bullies. 'If he wants to wear a dress, he can wear a f***ing dress,' remarked Rosenman who prompted Port from behind the camera, as she took center stage for the six minute and 30-second video.   Tim emphasized that the couple are 'not pushing' their son 'towards heterosexuality or homosexuality.' 'He will just be whoever he is born to be and we're here to support that...not push him in one direction or another,' concluded Rosenman as his wife nodded in approval. Port explained that it is inherently frustrating that her son will have to 'grow up in a world where [bigoted people] exist' but she believes it is the job of parents to 'have these kinds of conversations' with their children and those less informed. The idea for the video stemmed from a particular comment left on a photo Whitney posted of her darling son on Instagram towards the end of December. The commenter claimed that if they 'didn't know Sonny was a son' that they would have 'def thought he was a girl.' They went on to say that Sonny may be 'upset' at his mother in the future over the apparent androgyny being 'shared with the world' on Instagram.   Whitney took a deep breath before taking the time to dissect 'everything wrong' with the commenter's perspective. 'First of all what is a 'he' supposed to look like and what is a 'she' supposed to look like,' Port posed hypothetically.  'There isn't any 'supposed to look like' anything. Who ever said that because boys have long hair that makes them less of a boy? I just don't understand.'   
