online
{ By Katie Storey For Mailonline   Published:  22:33, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8030567/EastEnders-Sharon-Mitchell-gives-birth-son-Dennis-dies-shocking-twist.html }
EastEnders fans have been on the edge of their seats, as the BBC soap's 35th anniversary week comes to a dramatic climax.  And on Friday night, viewers were left shocked as Sharon Mitchell's 13-year-old son Dennis died in an explosive twist - only for his mum to find out about his death moments after giving birth.  Dennis had been locked in a room on a boat that was flooding with water and despite Ian Beale's attempts to save him - after being the one to lock him in - Dennis was pronounced dead by paramedics.  Dennis had been among some of Albert Square's finest who were trapped on board the boat that got into difficulty. Ian had locked him into a room and attempted to release him by bashing the door in with a fire extinguisher.  Viewers watched on as both Dennis and Ian were pulled from the water unconscious. Paramedics were seen trying to resuscitate Dennis, but to no avail and pronounced him dead, with both Keanu and Phil Mitchell watching on.  Sharon was in hospital giving birth, as she'd gone into labour early after being held at gunpoint by Phil's son Ben Mitchell who was holding her hostage.  The camera then cuts to Keanu visiting Sharon and his baby in the hospital, with Sharon quizzing him on the whereabouts of Dennis.  Unable to speak, Sharon persistently asks where her son is before eerily being heard screaming: 'Oh my baby.' She was later seen blaming Dennis' death on herself, after promising Louise on her son's life, and turned on Keanu as she told the father of her newborn child she never wants to see him again.  'I thought this is what love looked like. If you and me had never... if I'd never let you into my life, I'd still have my son,' she sobbed.  'Get out. I never want to see you again,' she told Keanu, before screaming at him to leave. Fans were quick to react on Twitter, with one viewer calling Dennis' death a 'bold move'. They wrote: 'Oh my God, it is Dennis. I cannot believe they killed off Dennis. That's a bold move #EastEnders.' Another said: 'Such an amazing episode and very sad to see Sharon give birth to her newborn son and also hear the news that Dennis passed away on the boat #EastEnders.' A third added: 'Wasn’t expecting Dennis to leave. #EastEnders35 #EastEnders' '#EastEnders I can not get my head around this RIP Dennis. Now will Ian get his head out his ar*e or will this be the turning point of another breakdown?! Sharon didn’t deserve this one,' a fourth tweeted.  Before his death, Dennis had tearfully apologised to Ian for abusing Bobby online. He had also left a voice note for mum Sharon explaining that Ian had locked him in a changing room on the boat and he couldn't get out.  Ian and Dennis had fought, after Ian learned Bobby had been attacked and was hospitalised with a bleed on the brain.  Fans are now eager to see how the drama will unfold, once Sharon's listens to the voice note Dennis had sent her.   EastEnders continues on Monday at 8pm on BBC One.  
