online
{ By Dr Clare Bailey & Dr Michael Mosley For Weeekend   Published:  22:31, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/food/article-8017167/Lose-stone-four-weeks-keeping-track-eat.html }
Food is embedded into almost every aspect of our lives. Not only does it provide essential fuel for our bodies but it also offers an opportunity to bring people together and provides a way of showing love and receiving it.  Yet food can also be a false friend; something we turn to when stressed or depressed and which we can become dependent upon or even addicted to.  We’re surrounded by temptation, which is hard to resist.  On top of this, many of the foods we do eat (processed and heavily promoted by the food industry) can hijack the chemistry of our brains and our hormones. So it’s little wonder that losing weight can be such a struggle for many people, or that changing the habits of a lifetime can take serious thought and effort, particularly in the early stages. A PLAN TO SUIT YOUR LIFE That’s why I have teamed up with the Daily Mail to bring you an exclusive new series based on our Fast 800 Health Journal to help you kick unhealthy eating patterns, lose weight successfully (and keep it off) and reap numerous health benefits besides.  To start you off, I have created a special edition here, exclusively for Weekend readers, to pull out and keep.  It will help you record your progress and identify any weak spots or unhelpful patterns of behaviour. And, because enjoying mouth-watering meals is also a vital part of creating a healthy lifestyle you’ll want to maintain, we’ll be serving up a selection of inspiring recipes by my wife Dr Clare Bailey and food writer Justine Pattison, for Fast 800 breakfasts, brunches, lunches and dinners.  There are eight in today’s Journal, and they continue next week in special pullouts in the Daily Mail.  Speaking from personal experience I can say they are not only good for your waistline – but they’re delicious and filling too! One of the reasons my best-selling Fast 800 diet has been embraced by so many people all over the world since I introduced it last year is that it’s easy to adopt.  Not only does it help you to lose weight rapidly at the beginning – which is highly motivating – but the principles of intermittent fasting, on which I based my original 5:2 diet, are flexible enough to fit into almost any lifestyle. The Fast 800 is rooted in a few simple rules that help you to shed unwanted pounds and trigger metabolic changes that can bring important health benefits including putting type 2 diabetes into remission and reducing the risk of heart disease and other chronic conditions.  It’s based on limiting yourself to 800 calories on fast days – low enough to induce mild ketosis, a natural metabolic state when the body burns fat instead of sugar as an energy source. However, it’s also enough to ensure you get the nutrients you need. It’s up to you whether you kickstart your regimen with the Fast 800 rapid weight-loss stage, eating 800 calories a day for an initial period of time, or take the more gradual 5:2 intermittent fasting approach – eat freely five days a week, with two 800-calorie fast days – which helped me to lose weight quickly and reverse my own type 2 diabetes in 2012 (see How It Works panel opposite). WHY IT HELPS TO WRITE IT DOWN Whatever you decide, you need to start with changing your habits – and research shows that keeping a journal is a particularly useful tool for this.  Not only does it help with weight loss, but it also makes us generally more mindful of what we eat, how we eat it, and why. A study in the US by Kaiser Permanente’s Center For Health Research, one of the largest and longest weight-loss maintenance trials ever conducted, found that those who kept daily food records lost twice as much weight as those who didn’t. It seems that the simple act of writing down what you eat (and, don’t forget, drink) heightens awareness and encourages people to consume fewer calories. WHAT DO YOU WANT TO ACHIEVE? Focus on what you want to achieve, whether it’s dropping a dress size for a special occasion, having more energy to play with your children, or coming off your diabetes medication.  Make a note of this and also include some measurable targets such as getting down to a specific weight or improving your blood sugars. Finding out your Body Mass Index (BMI) can help you work out how much weight to lose and set your goals.  To calculate your BMI, divide your weight in kilograms by your height in metres squared – or use an online calculator.  A healthy range is considered to be 18.5 to 24.9. Once you’ve reached your target, you can shift to a maintenance programme. You’ll find that keeping a daily diary naturally nudges you into better eating habits. Very often we forget about the little snacks and extras that we graze on in downtime.  But just the knowledge that you are writing down your daily consumption can make you less likely to pick up a bag of crisps to keep you going before supper. Keeping track of your location when you eat something, the time of day, and your mood helps you identify the triggers to unhealthy eating and can reveal how stress, work, or certain people affect your food choices.  For example, if you reach for a biscuit each time you face a work deadline, then you may deduce that stressful events cause you to crave sugary foods. Record all your meals, with times and calorie counts. The panel on the opposite page explains Time Restricted Eating (TRE) and how much water you should drink on fast or non-fast days. Mark as appropriate each day.   BE HONEST The most important thing is that the diary is an honest and accurate record. A few years ago, I made a film with an overweight woman who couldn’t understand why she wasn’t losing weight. We asked her to keep a food diary for a couple of weeks.  We also gave her a drink containing something called ‘doubly labelled water’ (containing an element that allows you to trace the number of calories you are really consuming).  When we totted up her diary it came to less than 1,500 calories. The doubly labelled water technique suggested she was consuming almost twice that. Before you tut-tut, it’s easily done. As someone who craves chocolate and has been found (very occasionally) gouging cheesecake straight out of the freezer late at night, I am well aware of how strong temptation can be! We have organised this food diary to give you as many helpful prompts as possible.  I do hope you enjoy using it and find it helpful on your weight-loss journey.  The more mindful we are of our daily lives, the happier and healthier we are.  How it works The Fast 800 has three stages – rapid weight loss, intermittent fasting and maintenance – all based on 800-calorie fast days. First choose how intensively you want to do the programme.  THE FAST 800 RAPID WEIGHT-LOSS STAGE  THE NEW 5:2 INTERMITTENT FASTING STAGE  WAY OF LIFE MAINTENANCE STAGE  WHAT TO EAT The Fast 800 is based on a low- carbohydrate, moderately high-protein, Mediterranean-style diet, rich in fresh vegetables, pulses, wholegrains, fish and good oils such as olive oil, all of which contain vital vitamins and minerals. Not only does the diet taste great – as our delicious recipes demonstrate – but there’s solid science to show it helps protect against raised blood pressure, heart disease, type 2 diabetes, dementia and depression. TIME RESTRICTED EATING  Timing your meals is important – try to eat within a limited time ‘window’ during the day and fast for the rest of the time, which includes while you’re asleep.  This structure, called Time Restricted Eating (TRE), is based on research showing that after fasting for 10-12 hours, your body is encouraged to start burning more fat and begins ‘spring cleaning’ old cells.  You should aim to eat all your calories within an 8-12 hour ‘window’ and then fast. There’s a space in your journal to record your progress.  Just note down whether you’ve done a 10, 12 or 14-hour fasting window on the circles provided. HOW MUCH TO DRINK  Staying hydrated is vital. Drink at least 1 litre of water a day and an extra 1-1.5 litres on fast days.  Mark the full vial in your Journal if you managed this, the half-full vial if you only managed half, or the emptier one for less.  Many people over-estimate how active they are – and here again a diary helps.  Note any activity you do and how much sleep you get – most people need at least 7-8 hours a night. You can also note your general mood. Recipe of the week GINGER CHILLI PRAWN STIR-FRY CALORIES PER SERVING 260  Clare says: I’m a big fan of stir-fries as flavoursome, one-pan dishes.  Serves 2  CALORIES PER SERVING: 228   Clare says: Maintaining adequate protein, whilst staying low carb, can be a challenge on 800 calories, particularly for vegetarians. This delicious protein shake will help maintain your daily protein requirement (around 50-60g per day). Serves 1 Put all the ingredients in a blender and blitz until smooth.  For the cauli-rice  Put the cauliflower in a microwavesafe bowl, cover and cook on high for 3 minutes (or spread on a baking tray and roast at 200°C/ fan 180°C/gas 6 for 10-12 minutes).  Meanwhile, heat the oil in a large nonstick frying pan or wok. Add the pepper, carrots (if using) and onion. Stir-fry over a mediumhigh heat for 3-4 minutes.  Add the garlic, ginger and kale and cook for a further minute, or until the kale has softened, stirring regularly.  Mix the cornflour, soy sauce and chilli in a bowl. Add 3tbsp cold water and stir until combined.  Add the sauce and prawns to the pan and toss together for 1 minute. Serve with the cauli-rice.  NON-FAST DAY Enjoy a larger portion, or serve with 2-3tbsp cooked brown or wild rice, or Japanese soba noodles.   Recipe of the week  CHICKEN AND CHORIZO PILAF CALORIES PER SERVING 304  CALORIES PER SERVING 38  Clare says: When Michael did a very low-calorie four-day fast to reverse his diabetes, this was his saviour. Perfect low-cal comfort food and surprisingly filling.  Serves 1   Put the miso and 500ml just-boiled water in a pan. Add the spring onions, ginger, garlic and chilli.  Bring to a gentle simmer. Stir in the leaves. Cook for 1-2 minutes, until soft. Serve with soy sauce.  COOK’S TIP Add 3-4 very thinly sliced mushrooms to the pan, for extra fibre and nutrients with minimal added calories. Clare says: A delicious dish that includes some healthy complex carbs in the form of bulgur wheat. These are good for your microbiome – those helpful bugs in your gut.  Serves 4  Heat the oil in a wide-based casserole or large, deep frying pan. Add the chicken and onion and fry gently for 5 minutes, or until the onion is softened, stirring regularly.  Increase the heat, add the mushrooms and chorizo and cook for 3 minutes, stirring constantly.  Add the bulgur wheat and chicken stock, season with lots of ground black pepper and bring to a gentle simmer. Reduce the heat and cook for about 15 minutes, stirring regularly, until the bulgur wheat is tender and almost all the liquid has been absorbed.  Add an extra splash of water if needed. Sprinkle with parsley, if using, and serve with large portions of freshly cooked green vegetables. Recipe of the week  BEEF AND MUSHROOM CASSEROLE CALORIES PER SERVING 302  CALORIES PER SERVING 241  Clare says: Granola will power you well into your day, and a daily portion of nuts has been shown to reduce heart disease. Add 1tbsp of Greek yoghurt for 35 calories Serves 8  Preheat the oven to 170°C/fan 150°C/ gas 3. Melt the coconut oil with the maple syrup and cinnamon in a large saucepan, stirring over a gentle heat. Remove from the heat and add the oats, stirring until thoroughly mixed. Scatter evenly over a baking tray and bake for 15 minutes.  Remove from the oven and stir in the nuts and coconut, if using. Return to the oven for a further 10 minutes.  Leave to cool and crisp up on the tray. Store in an airtight jar for up to two weeks. Clare says: Serve with a generous portion of freshly cooked kale or shredded cabbage, with insignificant added calories. Mashed celeriac or swede would also go well, but don’t forget to add the extra calories.  Serves 4  Preheat the oven to 170°C/fan 150°C/gas 3. Season the beef all over with salt and freshly ground black pepper.  Heat 1tbsp of the oil in a large, nonstick frying pan and fry the beef in batches over a medium-high heat for 2-3 minutes, or until browned.  Transfer to a flameproof casserole. Add the remaining oil to the frying pan and cook the onion, celery, carrots and mushrooms for 5 minutes, or until lightly browned, stirring regularly.  You may need to do this in batches. Add to the casserole. Crumble the stock cube over and stir in the tomato purée and 450ml cold water.  Sprinkle with the herbs and bring to a simmer, stirring occasionally.  Cover with a lid and place in the oven to cook for about 2 hours, or until the beef is very tender. Recipe of the week  POACHED FISH WITH PEAS AND SPINACH CALORIES PER SERVING 394  CALORIES PER SERVING 190  Clare says: A quick and easy upside-down baked apple dish. Delicious served hot or cold. Serve with full-fat live Greek yoghurt, if you like, but add 35 calories per 1tbsp. Serves 4  Preheat the oven to 200°C/fan 180°C/gas 6. Grease the base of a 20cm-diameter ovenproof dish with the coconut oil.  Add the dates, pecan nuts, lemon zest and cinnamon to the dish and toss to mix. Set the apple quarters on top of the fruit and nuts in a single layer, skin-side up.  Pack the apples in tightly to cover the dried fruit and ensure it doesn’t burn.  Pour 5tbsp of cold water over the top and bake for 25-30 minutes, or until the apples are soft. Clare says: So easy to cook. We keep white fish, peas and spinach in the freezer, so they are readily at hand for this delicious one-pan dish.  Serves 2  Heat the oil in a large lidded frying pan, or wide-based saucepan, and gently fry the onion for 4-5 minutes, or until softened, stirring regularly.  Add the frozen spinach and stock, bring to a gentle simmer, then cover with a lid and cook for 5 minutes, or until the spinach is almost thawed.  Stir in the peas, lemon zest and crème fraîche.  Place the frozen fish fillets on top of the vegetables, season well with black pepper, cover with a lid and poach the fish gently for 8-12 minutes, depending on thickness, until the fish is cooked through. Season to taste and serve. NON-FAST DAY Enjoy a larger portion of this or serve it with 2-3tbsp of cooked wholegrains, such as pearl barley, quinoa, or Puy lentils.  The Fast 800 Health Journal by Dr Clare Bailey and Dr Michael Mosley is published by Short Books at £9.99. © 2020 Dr Clare Bailey and Dr Michael Mosley. To buy a copy for £6.50 (35 per cent discount) go to mailshop.co.uk or call 01603 648155. Offer valid until 3.3.2020, p&p is free.    
