online
{ By Jennifer Smith For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:21, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8030437/Corey-Feldman-talks-Dr-Oz-upcoming-movie-Hollywood-pedophiles.html }
Corey Feldman has spoken to Dr. Oz about his upcoming movie on the Hollywood pedophiles who he claims raped him and Corey Haim when they were children, and revealed how he is living in fear about 'exposing' them.  Feldman's film - My Truth: The Rape of Two Coreys - has been beset with legal and funding issues.  It will only be shown once on his website on March 9 because no major distributor picked it up and it was reportedly turned down by Netflix because of possible legal ramifications. In the movie, he names one of the men that he and Haim nicknamed 'The Rapist' as teenage actors.  For legal reasons, Dr. Oz did not share that person's name, nor has DailyMail.com.  But Dr. Oz said it 'startled' him to hear in the movie, which was given an advance screening of.  'It was startling for me to hear it. Does he know that his name is going to be mentioned in this film?' he asked.  Feldman, who claims attempts have been made on his life since he went public with his claims of being raped years ago, said the man knew his name was mentioned in the film and that he has since threatened him. 'I believe he reached out to somebody within my circle and made it known that he knows where I am, and he has a way to find me,' he said.  Feldman said he'd been urged by other victims of Hollywood pedophiles to make the movie, despite fearing for his life.  'Let me break it down for you a little bit and explain to you that there's elements of this that, the reason why this has been so difficult which is, there's a multitude of reasons. But one of the main things is a lot of the people who were pushing me and saying, you got to do this, were victims that knew about what was going on. 'So, at the last minute, these people would back out and they would say, "Oh, well, we got death threats. Oh, well, my family is afraid. We've got a family to think about. My family's got to come first."  'And I'm going, what about my family? Does my family not matter?  'Why am I being asked to sacrifice everything when nobody else is willing to take those same sacrifices? But you know what? That wasn't enough to stop me.  'So I kept going, and then another thing would happen. Then I get stabbed. Then I get almost run over. It's just one thing after another that have happened over the last three years.  'They do it through intimidation. And then they all go around and spread this rumor that you’re this awful person,' he said.  Feldman is posting the film online the night before the 10th anniversary of Corey Haim's death.  'I don't think there's a better way to honor his memory and to tribute his life and his legacy than to give the answer that he asked me personally to promise I would make sure got delivered to the world.  'I am keeping my promise. I'm a man of my word, and I'm putting my entire family at risk to do it. I pray for the safety of my family. But there's one other thing I want to pray for, and that's his family.  'I don't mean just Haim's family because I'm praying for them too. But I also pray for the family of the rapist because I know that this man also has a family and I don't take that lightly.  'What we're doing right now is going to shake things up for all of us, it's going to cause a lot of pain, and I'm sorry for that pain.  'But you know what? It had to be done,' he said. Haim, who starred in several movies with Feldman, died in 2010 following drug and alcohol battles. Feldman said the film will reveal for the first time the names of Haim's abusers. Feldman has already publicly named one of his own alleged abusers. He accused his former co-star Jon Grissom of abusing him as a child. He referred to Grissom as Ron Crimson in his 2013 book Coreyography. He aired the allegations for the first time during a 2017 Dr Oz Show interview. Grissom, who has a prior child molestation conviction and is believed to be living in Mexico, has not been charged in relation to Feldman's claims. Feldman said the documentary will be the first time all the details about his and Haim's alleged abuse have been detailed. 'I am able to say the names of who did what and the details of who did what,' Feldman said of the film. 'There is going to be people who are going to be very unhappy that this is coming out. People who want it silenced. Nothing can stop it at this point. 'That's why we're only showing it one time.  'We want to get it out. I've done my job, I've kept my promise.'  
