{ By MailOnline Reporter   Published:  22:15, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//galleries/article-8030687/New-mother-recreates-Meghan-Markles-outfits-stunning-results.html }
Helen Terrero-Black, a 39-year-old assistant corporation counsel in New York City, said she had never been a royal watcher until Meghan Markle and Prince Harry started dating in 2016. In January 2019, she started recreating Meghan's outfits. Ever since, doing so has become something of a passion for her. Click through to see all of her lookalike outfits... Terrero-Black has replicated 20 of the 38-year-old's looks, from evening gowns to jeans and sweaters (though her yellow sheath dress was less pricey than Meghan's $1,700 Brandon Maxwell, seen here). Copycat: She first took notice of the purple Babaton by Aritizia dress Meghan wore under a red coat by Sentaler on January 14, 2019 and copied it. 'I wore a red blazer instead of a red coat and a purple satin dress with a camel coat over it all. It looked great and I got a ton of compliments and I was sort of hooked from then on,' she said. Who wore it better? Here's Meghan's version, complete with matching red stiletto heels.  Helen said she was drawn to Meghan right away and thinks they have a bit in common.  She's gone on to recreate 20 different looks, like the one Meghan wore on January 7, 2020 including a brown satin Vince skirt, a Reiss coat, and a brown top. 'When I learned that Prince Harry and Meghan were dating, I started to keep up with them more, and even started to follow Prince William and Duchess Kate, whom I now love also,' Terrero-Black said. Exact! Though she usually buys similar items, she has bought exact versions of Meghan's less expensive clothes, like this J.Crew coat she wore on March 8, 2018. The most difficult outfit for Helen to get her hands on is the Banana Republic trench dress Meghan wore on a visit to the University of Johannesburg in October 2019, as it was in high demand.  Score! Terrero-Black called three stores before she found the exact $116 Banana Republic dress Meghan wore pictured here on October 1, 2019. 'Harry and Meghan were also an interracial couple as my husband and I are,' Terrero-Black said. 'So, I loved being able to see our family unit, at the time without a baby, in something as traditional and classy as the royal family.' Head up! Helen said dressing like the Duchess (like in the blue denim number she wore on July 26, 2018) gives her confidence. Terrero-Black dresses like the Duchess even on more casual days. Here, she copied the Duchess' day-off look: A white button-up linen shirt, casually half-tucked in to a pair of well-worn jeans. 'Meghan looked so classy and confident in those vibrant colors and I noticed I had a couple pieces that if put together could pull off a similar look,' Terrero-Black said. 'It was also inspiring to see her working while also looking fabulous and classy especially because although she looked great, I’m sure she didn’t always feel great.' 'I had just recently had my first baby and was just returning to work,' she said, referring to the birth of her now-two-year-old son Xavier. 'Meghan herself was expecting and I just loved her fashion generally.'  'This is something that a lot of us working professional moms have to do, particularly when you’re in an environment where first impressions can be lasting impressions and where aesthetics plays a major part of how we’re perceived — as is the case in law for women,' she said. Separates: Terrero-Black shops sales and from her own closet to put together looks to replicate Meghan's, like the Scanlan Theodore top she wore on October 27, 2018. Helen has continued to copy Meghan's fashion choices, and has replicated 20 outfits, spending between $0 and $250 per look, depending on what she already has in her wardrobe. Fancy: She has found other women on Instagram who also copy Meghan's outfits, like the $550 Judith & Charles dress she wore on August 29, 2018. Helen always shops sales and rarely pays full price, unless the item is very special. She said that after posting pictures on line, she also learned that copying Meghan's looks is a 'thing' and 'there were many people doing the same.' Not every look is an exact copy, but they're close enough — like the skirt Helen found that looks like a Hugo Boss one Meghan wore on July 13, 2019. 'Then I felt less weird about it and actually became Insta friends with other mirror Meghan girls,' she said. Bright spot: She also found a dress that looks similar to a red long-sleeve one Meghan wore on October 25, 2018. The internet is Helen’s go-to when it comes to sourcing her Meghan inspired outfits, and she loves to shop at J. Crew, Club Monaco, Ann Taylor, Banana Republic, Net-a-Porter, Century21, and TJ Maxx.  'This was and is something just plain fun for me to do for myself. I love trying to find things in my closet, or things I can shop for, within my budget, that will help me mirror Meghan especially when my day is constantly filled with things to do for work, my son, husband or others,' she said. Keeping casual: She looked just like Meghan in black jeans, a striped top, and a jacket that was similar to the J. Crew one she wore on February 25, 2019. 'It’s just something I do for myself and no one else. And, it feels a bit empowering. I know it might sound funny that something as superficial as clothes can make someone feel that way but it does,' she said. Inspired: The red dress Helen picked out was a different color than Meghan's $1,385 Martin Grant shirtdress from October 26, 2018, but it had a similar vibe. 
