{ By Sean O'grady For Mailonline   Published:  11:06, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8041563/Liv-Tyler-cuts-casual-figure-moves-boxes-new-home-friend-Malibu.html }
She's a successful Hollywood actress with a career spanning almost three decades. And Liv Tyler had her hands full as she was seen carrying boxes out of her new home in Malibu, California on Monday. The actress, 42, cut a casual figure for the day as she took out the empty boxes with the help of a female friend after making the move to her new abode. Liv donned an animal print top with a high, black collar which she paired with high-waisted black trousers. The film star also sported a pair of black flat shoes and accessorised with a beige handbag. Letting her brunette locks fall loose down her shoulders, the Lord of the Rings star completed her look with black rimmed glasses.   It comes after Liv recently admitted gets 'embarrassed' watching her dad Steven Tyler perform.  Speaking on Jimmy Kimmel Live, she said: 'I mean...he's pretty amazing. But as a performer, he doesn't half-ass anything. Like, he really is singing his heart out.  'So, I'm usually pretty impressed that he's still...but he does things that embarrass me. Like, humping his mic stand. I'm like, "Dad..."' And with Aerosmith well into their Las Vegas residency, the 9-1-1: Lone Star actress has seen a lot of performance footage online that she'd rather not have done.  She said: 'They're in Vegas right now, so there's, like, clips all the time...and he, like, licks people's faces sometimes.' Liv and her fiance Dave Garner live in the UK with their blended family - her son Milo, 15, his son Grey, 12, and their two kids Sailor, four, and Lula, three - and the actress admitted she's constantly trying to correct her younger children's use of British words. She said: 'Milo is...he's a real New Yorker. He's got an American accent. But the babies have complete British accents...It's very sweet. 'But I'm always reminding them, cause they say the English words for everything. So, they'll say, like, the stroller, they call it a buggy. And the trash can's a bin...like chips and I'll say, "You mean you want some French fries." '  
