online
{ By Mail Online Reporter   Published:  21:12, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//galleries/article-8030325/Donald-Trump-loving-Elvis-impersonator-delights-crowds-presidents-Sin-City-rally.html }
Donald Trump held his third rally in a row Friday afternoon at the Las Vegas Convention Center - with a Trump-loving impersonator to keep the crowd entertained before the president spoke. The president's fans had lined up outside for hours- and in some cases since Thursday - in a relative winter chill to wait for his appearance. Little darlin': Elvis impersonator Jeff Stanulis brought his own mini-Donald Trump with an Elvis guitar as he offered a Las Vegas flavor to the crowd waiting for the president's rally in the city.  Good luck charm:  As well as a Donald Trump doll with a guitar, Elvis impersonator Jeff Stanilus accessorized his rhinestone outfit with the presidential seal. Always on my mind: Elvis impersonator Jeff Stanislus' loyalties to the King and the president are on display outside the Las Vagas Convention Center. They were kept entertained not just by Trump Elvis but by a Kim Jong Un impersonator who shouted at waiting fans that the president is a 'great dictator' while brandishing an inflatable little rocket. Elvis made it into the building, continuing the show outside the main convention center hall, but Kim did not. Here to show support: The president's fans lined up in the sunshine and the relative winter chill - with Trump 2020 cowboy hats among the merchandise available. The stop in Nevada was part of a rare four-day campaign swing through the west coast. During the trip, the president held a fundraiser in California, participated in a prisoner graduation ceremony, held a Phoenix rally on Wednesday, Colorado Springs rally Thursday and finally one at the Las Vegas Convention Center. The rally was held on the eve of the Nevada caucuses, only the third Democratic primary contest in the nation.  The president continued his momentum off his two previous rallies, railing against potential general election rivals and slamming Democrats and culture war enemies on a myriad of issues – including the Academy Awards bestowing Best Picture Oscar to South Korean film 'Parasite.' Here, supporters of the president make a four-more years sign as they chant their approval before he arrives. Most of the area was standing-room only, and many attendees even gathered around and behind the press pen into an overflow area.  Trump lost Nevada in 2016 with 45.5 percent of the vote to Hillary Clinton's 47.9 per cent. The only two counties that went blue, however, were the ones that encompass Las Vegas and Reno, the largest cities in the state. The president is trying to gain those few percentage points to take Nevada's six Electoral College votes in November. Democrats are also vying for support in the state as they continue to campaign up until the caucuses Saturday. Many of the eight remaining candidates arrived for the debate Wednesday and stayed through the weekend. Some candidates are trying to gain back their energy in the state after less-than-satisfactory performances in the first two early primary contest states. Joe Biden, who remained the national frontrunner throughout the primary campaign, walked away from Iowa in fourth place and came in a shocking fifth place in New Hampshire. Moderates Pete Buttigieg and Amy Klobuchar performed surprisingly well in the two states. But both Iowa and New Hampshire are more than 90 per cent white, and some candidates, like Joe Biden, claim they will do better in more diverse states like Nevada and South Carolina – the second primary election state, where voters will cast their ballots next Saturday. Even though Trump is not facing any significant primary challenges, he has still touted his wins in Iowa and New Hampshire, especially after Democrats struggled to get the Iowa results out following a malfunction in the app intended for reporting results.  Pictured, Trump supporters wear shirts with the number 45 on the back.  There was plenty of Trump merchandise available for sale at the rally.  
