{ By Snejana Farberov For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:06, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8030231/Mom-missing-toddler-keeps-mum-childs-whereabouts.html }
The Tennessee mother who officials say had failed to report her toddler daughter missing for two months declined to answer reporters' questions concerning the whereabouts of her child as she left court on Friday.  Maggie Boswell, the mother of 15-month-old Evelyn Mae Boswell, who is currently the subject of an AMBER Alert and an intense statewide search, appeared impassive and silently walked from Sullivan County Courthouse to her car, as news reporters repeatedly asked her about her daughter.  It is unclear why Boswell was in court on Friday.   Meanwhile, Sullivan County Sheriff Jeff Cassidy said he believes Evelyn is alive and everything possible is being done to bring her home.  During a press conference Friday afternoon, the sheriff said while Bowsell has been cooperating with the investigation, the information she has been providing has proven to be inaccurate. Scroll down for video  Cassidy elaborated that some of Boswell's 'stories' that emerged during police interviews have not been corroborated by surveillance video and witness accounts.  The sheriff also revealed that a search is underway for a BMW and its occupants, which may be linked to the missing toddler.   The Tennessee Bureau of Investigation sent out a tweet on Friday saying that 'individuals traveling in a gray 2007 BMW with TN tag 3M9-6W9 have information regarding Evelyn Boswell’s whereabouts.'   TBI so far has received 200 tips related to the AMBER Alert, and a $1,000 reward is being offered by the sheriff for information that leads to Evelyn's safe return.  On Thursday, Boswell's former boyfriend, local chicken eatery owner Hunter Wood, broke his silence and said in an interview with WJHL that he never saw Evelyn.   Wood, whose name has been repeatedly invoked by online commenters and Internet sleuths, sought to set the record straight after claiming that he has been getting threats.  Wood said he dated Boswell on and off for a few weeks in December, but never met her daughter, only seeing her in photos. 'I have no relationship with that child whatsoever,' he said.  Wood added that he had been made to believe that Evelyn was living with her father while he was on leave from the military.  Sheriff Cassidy said on Friday that Boswell has full custody of her daughter.   The Sullivan County Sheriff’s Office began investigating Evelyn's disappearance on Tuesday, after the Department of Children’s Services reported the child as missing after being contacted by the toddler's grandfather.  Evelyn's last sighting was two months ago, on December 26, 2019, according to a press release from the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation.  Officials are trying to determine why Evelyn was not reported missing earlier, WCYB reported. The child's biological father, Ethan Perry, who is an active-duty US Army soldier stationed in Louisiana, posted a brief Facebook update addressing his daughter's disappearance on Wednesday: 'I’m currently working with authorities trying to find Evelyn. I can’t say much more than that at the moment.'  Sheriff's Captain Andy Seabolt said at the outset of the investigation, Evelyn's case did not meet the criteria required for an AMBER Alert, but after conferring with TBI, the alert was issued on Wednesday, reported WJHL.  Officials worked through the night and into Thursday following on leads as part of the search for the toddler.  'Right now we’re not sure of her exact location,' Seabolt told the station WCYB. 'It could be anywhere from what we know.'   Boswell has not spoken out publicly about the toddler's disappearance.  Her most recent post, dated November 3, 2019, consisted of a photo of Evelyn sitting on a bench; the same image is now being used by TBI to look for the toddler.  Boswell welcomed Evelyn on November 21, 2018, becoming a teen mom.  In September 2019, she posted a touching tribute to her baby daughter, then aged 11 months: 'I'm not the best mom in the world, but I try so hard for this little beauty. I can't even explain the love I feel for her, and i know she loves me too.  'Lately my lifes been really sucky but she'll come reach for me and say "mom mom" and my heart melts and I'm reminded of her unconditional love. You can say whatever you want about me being a young mom, but I promise you my life is so much better with this angel.  'My life wasnt ruined when I had her, she gave me a purpose and a reason to wake up everyday and to better myself. Theres no love like the love from your child!'  Neither Boswell nor Perry have been accused of any wrongdoing in connection to the disappearance of their daughter.    Evelyn is described as 2 feet tall and weighing 28lbs, with blonde hair and blue eyes. She was last seen wearing a pink tracksuit, pink shoes, and a pink bow.  Anyone with information on the child's whereabouts is being asked to contact the Sullivan County Sheriff's Office at 423-279-7330 or the TBI at 1-800-TBIFIND.  
