online
{ By Mary Kekatos For Dailymail.com and Ryan Fahey For Mailonline and Associated Press   Published:  18:57, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8030055/Bodycam-footage-shows-cop-ducking-avoid-hit-friendly-fire.html }
Newly-released bodycam footage shows a police officer ducking down to avoid friendly fire as he engages in a gun fight with two attackers who killed three people at a Jersey City kosher grocery store last year.  The clip, which was obtained by the Associated Press on Thursday with another six videos through the state's open records law, spans roughly three hours from the December 10 incident.   The shooters, identified  David Anderson and Francine Graham had just killed a police officer at a nearby cemetery and were now carrying out a second attack. They pulled their white U-Haul van outside of JC Kosher Supermarket on Martin Luther King Boulevard and ran in with guns extended. Police began exchanging gun fire with the pair, including one unidentified officer from the window of Sacred Heart Catholic School across the street. After someone notices him at the window, he squats below the window's ledge so he can't be seen.   'It's a[n] officer!' he yells.  He then picks up his walkie-talkie and indicates that he's a police officer, saying: 'That's friendly inside of Sacred Heart. I say again: friendly, blue.'     In another of the obtained clips, the officer is seen reloading his weapon as numerous volleys of gunfire are heard. 'I think he's down. No, he's still moving,' the unidentified officer is heard saying.  The officer moves past rows of small desks from one classroom, past lockers and into another before he shoots out of the window, which had been decorated with a paper cutout of an angel. Schools in Jersey City had been locked down that day.    Anderson, 47, and Graham, 50, fatally shot Detective Joseph Seals at a cemetery before they drove to the kosher supermarket.  Authorities say Seals was at the cemetery to meet a man to talk about returning an impounded vehicle. While waiting, Seals confronted the pair after he saw their van and believed it was connected to a recent killing in nearby Bayonne.   At the market, the couple killed co-owner Mindel Ferencz, 33; employee Douglas Miguel Rodriguez; and Moshe Deutsch, 24, a rabbinical student from Brooklyn who was shopping. According to authorities,  Rodriguez held open the back door of the store for a customer to escape before he was killed. Eventually, the SWAT team used its vehicle as a battering ram and slammed hard into the grocery store. Inside, they found the bodies of the three victims as well as the bodies of Anderson and Graham, who had been killed in the lengthy gun battle.   In their couple's U-Haul van was a pipe bomb and a note that read: 'I do this because my creator makes me do this and I hate who he hates,' reported the New York Post.  The two were allegedly fueled by a hatred of Jewish people and law enforcement Two of the videos show the moment one of the shooters exited the van which Anderson drove to the store.  Authorities said Anderson carrying an AR-15 style weapon, while Graham carried a 12-gauge shotgun into the shop. The video shows passersby scattering away from the shop as the couple enters. Police arrived at the market less than two minutes after the shooters exited the van.  Another clip shows a police vehicle smashing into the store front nearly three hours after Anderson and Graham arrived.  Police also shared 25 911 calls made in the minutes after the shooting.  State and federal law enforcement officials said Anderson and Graham expressed hatred of Jews and law enforcement in notes left at the grocery shooting scene and in online posts. Five weapons and hundreds of rounds of ammunition were found in the store after the attackers were killed. Investigators also found a bomb in the couple's van that could have sprayed shrapnel fragments. The van also contained materials that could have made a second bomb.  Investigators found among Anderson's social media posts a reference to Jews as 'imposters who inhabited synagogues of Satan.' Anderson received about $560 per month as a military veteran and may have sold property and a van to make money, officials said. However, officials have found no evidence he received outside assistance to purchase weapons or bomb-making materials. Anderson and Graham had searched other Jewish locations to carry out their attack, but it's unclear why they chose the grocery store. 
