online
{ By Associated Press   Published:  18:28, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8030063/Judge-High-profile-corruption-trial-stay-Puerto-Rico.html }
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) - A federal judge on Friday denied a request to move an upcoming corruption trial against former Puerto Rico Education Secretary Julia Keleher to the U.S. mainland. The decision in the high-profile case was celebrated by many in the U.S. territory who argued that Keleher should be tried where the alleged crimes occurred. Defense attorney Lanny Davis, a former White House counsel, told The Associated Press that he didn´t know yet whether they planned to appeal the decision. Defense attorneys had argued Keleher would not receive a fair trial in Puerto Rico because she is reviled on the island. The ruling comes more than a month after the U.S. Attorney´s Office announced that Keleher had been indicted on charges including bribery and fraud. She is in part accused of giving school property to a private company in exchange for living in an upscale apartment complex for six months on a $1 lease even though the agreement stipulated a $1,500 monthly rent. Keleher then bought the apartment and received a $12,000 bonus in connection with the purchase when such bonuses rarely exceed $5,000, officials said. Keleher resigned in April 2019 amid heavy criticism from parents and others angry over the closure of more than 400 schools, a move aimed at saving millions of dollars as Puerto Rico continues to see a sharp drop in enrollment amid a 13-year recession. Keleher also was preparing to create charter schools and vouchers as ordered by Puerto Rico´s former governor. Davis said she is innocent and noted that Keleher is seeking donations via an online account to help pay her legal fees. FILE - In this Oct. 13, 2017 file photo, Education Secretary Julia Keleher gets a hug from a student at Ramon Marin Sola Elementary School, in Guaynabo, Puerto Rico. A federal judge on Friday, Feb. 21, 2020, denied a request to move an upcoming corruption trial against Keleher to the U.S. mainland. The former education secretary is in part accused of giving school property to a private company in exchange for living in an upscale apartment complex for six months on a $1 lease even though the agreement stipulated a $1,500 monthly rent. (AP Photo/Carlos Giusti, File) The trial has been postponed to February 2021. 
