online
{ By Ralph R. Ortega For Dailymail.com and Associated Press   Published:  16:45, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8029531/Brother-Chicago-Bears-Hall-Famer-Brian-Urlacher-charged-illegal-sports-gambling-business.html }
The brother of Chicago Bears Hall of Fame linebacker Brian Urlacher and nine others, including a police officer, have been charged with operating an offshore sports gambling business. Casey Urlacher, who also is mayor of the Illinois village of Mettawa, was accused of conspiracy and running an illegal gambling business, according to an indictment filed in US District Court. Prosecutors, who announced the indictment on Thursday, allege that Urlacher, 40, recruited new bettors in a scheme that raked in millions of dollars through a betting website known as unclemicksports.com. Urlacher was not immediately available for comment.  He denied the charges against him when reached by the Chicago Sun-Times. His brother Brian, who wasn't named in the indictment, said he was unaware of the scheme or his brother's alleged participation. 'I don´t know nothing about it,' he told the Sun-Times when asked about the charges. Casey Urlacher had played football at Lake Forest College and the Arena Football League before entering politics.  He was elected mayor of Mettawa, which has about 550 residents, in 2013. The indictment also accuses 42-year-old Nicholas Stella, an 18-year veteran of the Chicago Police Department, of acting as an agent in the scheme. Stella has been stripped of his police powers. 'Those who enforce the law should understand more than anyone the importance of following the law,' police Superintendent Charlie Beck said Thursday.  'The allegations against suspended police officer Nicholas Stella are very serious and if proven, they undermine everything the men and women of the Chicago Police Department represent'. The indictment alleges the ring was headed by Vincent DelGiudice, 54, who paid a Costa Rica-based sportsbook a service fee to use its online platform and recruited gamblers to place wagers on the website.  DelGiudice hired people to act as agents and enlist gamblers. Federal agents searched DelGiudice´s Oakland Park home in April 2019 and turned up more than $1.06million in cash, $347,895 in silver bars and jewelry, and $92,623 in gold coins.  Prosecutors are seeking an $8million judgment against DelGiudice, who is charged with conspiracy to conduct an illegal gambling business, conspiracy to commit money laundering and money laundering. It wasn´t immediately known if DelGiudice, Stella or the others charged have obtained legal representation. 
