{ By Isabella Nikolic For Mailonline   Published:  16:44, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8029451/Former-Army-Corporal-41-reveals-believes-breast-implants-slowly-killing-her.html }
A former Army Corporal who believed her breast implants were slowly killing her for 20 years has spoken out to raise awareness.  Kay Richardson, 41, got breast implants two decades ago while serving in the Royal Logistics Corps but has since had them removed after being 'driven mad' by a catalogue of health issues. The mother-of-three, who went from being a 28AA to a 32C, suffered from chronic fatigue, joint pain and hair loss, shortly after having the operation. Her symptoms became increasingly worse over time and culminated around Christmas last year when she went for a massage and believes her right breast ruptured. Now a professional semi-permanent make-up artist, Ms Richardson experienced a sharp pain during the treatment and over the next couple of days her health plummeted even further. Ms Richardson, of Stockton-on-Tees, did her own research and found out about Breast Implant Illness (BII), which fitted all of her symptoms and immediately booked to have hers removed. She said: 'I was in the Army but I was still a girly girl. I had long blonde hair but my figure wasn't what I wanted. I was so slim and very flat-chested. 'It was something for me, for my self-confidence and to be what I thought was feminine. 'A friend got hers done and she looked great. She had a very similar figure to me. 'With clothes on it gave me a lot more confidence. When I first saw my boobs I was shocked, it was a big change but I absolutely loved them. 'Ever since the surgery I noticed health issues but I never connected anything until last year. 'My health deteriorated a lot, my joint pain went from being periodical to regular agony.' The mother of Nyla, five, Noa, six and Ava, nine, said: 'I was so tired, beyond normal levels of being a busy mum, I couldn't stay awake past seven o'clock. 'My hair was falling out, I would get scabs on my scalp and it felt like my body was killing me. 'I went for blood tests, every test you can think of but nothing was ever picked up. I felt like my body was under attack but I couldn't get any answers. 'I was always in pain, I felt like I was going crazy, not getting a diagnosis but being so ill was impacting my mental health. 'My list of things that felt wrong was endless, I could have sat in the GP's office all day and I think that puts women off seeking help. 'I felt like I was keeping stuff back from my family and friends. It affected my marriage, my kids. I was negative more than I was positive, I didn't know what to do until I saw online about Breast Implant Illness and every symptom matched me. 'I thought surely it can't be my implants but I was willing to try anything and it was the only thing that made sense. 'I would have tried anything so I booked an appointment straight away to get my implants removed and it has been incredible.' Ms Richardson, who says she has already seen a dramatic improvement in her health, has now set up a group to support other women and share her story called Fake to Organic.  She said: 'I want to raise awareness of Breast Implant Illness. I suffered in silence, one thing after another. Another test, another scan and all to no avail. It could be impacting so many other women. 'I want to bring attention to BII, to let others know they are not alone, they are not going mad. 'Due to the symptoms being similar, some women have even been diagnosed with fibromyalgia when it's not necessarily the case. 'This silent illness is real. If by showing and telling my story I can help others, that's all I want. 'During all of my appointments not one medical professional asked me if I even had implants, there needs to be more information out there. 'I want to make it clear that not all women who get implants will get it but I just want to reassure the women who do.' Ms Richardson added: 'I am feeling better every day. I have been so lucky because immediately after the surgery I have felt better, I don't have stabbing pains anymore and for the first time in years I have been able to get a full nights sleep.' In a statement the British Association of Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons said: 'Breast Implant Illness, or Autoimmune Syndrome Induced by Adjuvants (ASIA), is a collection of multiple symptoms, most of which are common in the general population who do not have breast implants. 'BII/ASIA is not a World Health Organisation recognised disease, but there is much ongoing work and an enormous amount of data being collected and analysed internationally to establish if BII is a classifiable disease or not. 'Our three surgical Associations are represented on the Plastic, Reconstructive and Aesthetic Surgery, Expert Advisory Group (PRASEAG), which advises the MHRA. The group also has a representative on the International Global Network Forum and ICOPLAST (International Confederation of Plastic Surgery).'  
