online
{ By Carly Stern For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:33, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/food/article-8029301/McDonalds-selling-Quarter-Pounder-candles-smelling-like-different-ingredient.html }
Burger lovers can now make their homes smell like a McDonald's — even when they haven't actually brought home food from the chain. McDonald's just launched the Quarter Pounder Fan Club, an offshoot of its official merchandise line, with several items that celebrate its beloved cheeseburger. The fan club merch includes several items including a 2020 calendar, mittens, and a pin — but the most eyebrow-raising addition is a pack of six scented candles that each smell like a different Quarter Pounder ingredient. While some items — like a gold-colored locket with the golden arches stamped on it — are available to buy now, the Quarter Pounder Scented Candle Pack is listed as 'coming soon.' The pack includes six custom scented candles inspired by Quarter Pounder ingredients. There's one each with scents like bun, ketchup, pickle, cheese, onion, and '100% Fresh Beef.' The idea seems to be that burning them all at once will make a room smell like a Quarter Pounder, but it also give customers the option of burning just an onion-scented or ketchup-scented candle.  The candles join several other quirky merchandise options on the website, including a sesame seed umbrella, hair ties, socks, T-shirts, a beanie, and a lounge set. McDonald's is just the latest of several food brands to create odd food-scented candles, but they never fail to earn the Internet's interest.  In December, Mexican food chain Qdoba debuted the cheesiest gift of the holiday season, selling a scented candle that smelled like it's beloved queso. The $10 Queso Candle, which was only available online, was 8 oz. and came in a queso-like orange hue with Qdoba's original three-cheese queso scent.  The candle has since sold out, but the brand also sells quite a bit of themed merchandise online, including T-shirts, zip-ups, vests, and even blazers.  And November, Chili's held a contest in which winners scored a #ChilisMyHouse starter pack, which included plenty of free gifts — including a scented candle that smells like a steaming plate of ribs. 'We get it. Our Guests don’t always have the time or want to leave the comfort of their homes,' Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Ellie Doty said in a press release.  'I deeply understand because I love being on the couch with my boys in my jammies binge-watching TV. And that’s exactly why you need a #ChilisMyHouse starter pack in your life.'  The pack also came with a custom doormat, a wooden TV tray, a trivia game, and a chip clip, but the unique scented candle is certainly the most intriguing thing on the menu. Over a year ago, KFC in the UK released a candle that smelled like its signature gravy, though only 230 were made.  'You’re not dreaming. You really can now fill your home with the incredible aroma of KFC gravy with this limited edited candle… it’s staggeringly nose-stimulating,' said a spokesperson.  And finally, in 2018, steak sauce brand A.1. sold a line of limited-edition meat-scented candles. For $14.99 each, the candles came in three scents: original meat, backyard barbecue, and classic burger.  The candles were meant 'to evoke memories of dads grilling and cooking during the summer and special occasions,' A.1. marketing head Ryan Nolan told the Daily News.  'We have been working on getting the candles perfect for the past few months. It's the first time we have expanded out of pantry for A.1.,' Ryan added.  
