online
{ By Monica Greep For Mailonline   Published:  10:42, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8041579/Jonathan-Ross-daughter-Honey-insists-shes-confident-friends.html }
Body image activist Honey Ross has claimed that she's more confident than 'all of her thin friends' and says three of them have been 'close to death' after battling eating disorders.  Honey, 22, from London, appeared on Lorraine today where she explained that despite her pals having the kind of body 'society likes', she feels more confident in her skin, and revealed that three of them have had 'really life-threatening eating disorders'.  The daughter of British TV presenter Jonathan Ross, 59, and screenwriter Jane Goldman, 49, Honey told that though it wasn't the intention of her parents, the industry she grew up in was 'quite toxic' and she never met anyone who 'looked like her'. She said: 'I knew countless boys with eating disorders, but in my group three of my friends had really life-threatening eating disorders.  'My friends were close to death, but people were going, "Yeah but she's too fat". There's no way of winning as a woman.'  She went on to explain that constantly witnessing people around her constantly undergoing fad diets in a bid to lose weight. 'We all grew up the same diet culture', said Honey, 'I grew up in this industry, which is quite toxic and I never saw people who looked like me. 'I always saw people doing fad diets, I grew up around that. Whether my parents intended me too or not, you can only do so much.' Honey says she felt an unspoken pressure to slim down for a long time, and said people began to treat her differently as she gained weight.  'I went from being a normal child and I put on weight and suddenly I got a lot of pity', said Honey.  'I got people saying "Are you going to take her to the gym? Put her on a diet? People think they're doing the kind thing, when actually it's so damaging.'  When quizzed by host Lorraine Kelly on what do to if your child is overweight or underweight, she said: 'Love and support them.  'You don't need to tell your child to go on a diet, if you want to exercise, don't do it to justify a cupcake - life is very short.  'I think compassion and kindness are the most incredible gifts to give a child and even if you do want them to lose weight, when has shaming ever been a motivator?'  Honey said that since embracing her body shape, she's gained more confidence than her slimmer friends.  'I'm a size 18 and I'm more confident than all of my thin friends and they always say, "I wish I was more confident", And I’m like, "You have the body society likes".'  Honey's Instagram page boasts nearly 20,000 followers and she insisted that she continues to post as just one message from someone she has inspired means it's 'absolutely all worth it' .  She said: 'The reason I continue to post like this, is because I receive messages that say "Just so you know, I brought the first bikini in ten years or threw away my scales because of you" Or teens saying "You’ve inspired me to go out in shorts"  and that makes it absolutely all worth it.'  Last week Honey garnered attention at the VIN + OMI London Fashion Week show, making her runway debut in quirky attire. Honey donned a pink mini dress that hugged her curves, the bold dress featured a ruffled collar and capped sleeves and had the word 'REAL' down the front.  
