online
{ By Harriet Johnston For Mailonline   Published:  14:23, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8028641/Jessica-Mulroney-reveals-wrongly-believed-twins-not-identical-seven-years.html }
Meghan Markle's best friend Jessica Mulroney has revealed how she wrongly believed her identical sons were fraternal twins for seven years.   The Canadian fashion stylist, 40, from Toronto, took to Instagram and shared a snap of John and Brian, 10, with her 376k followers. She said she and her husband Ben were told their sons were fraternal and felt like 'awful parents' for not being able to tell them apart, before explaining: 'Turns out. They are identical.' The twins famously stole the show at Meghan, 38, and Prince Harry's, 35, wedding in 2018 when they acted as page boys for the Duchess of Sussex.  Jessica shared a snap of her twin sons online, as they posed in matching cartoon pyjama sets.  Alongside the snap, she wrote: 'We were told they were fraternal for seven years and felt like awful parents not being able to tell them apart for the first two years.' The mother-of-three regularly shares snaps of her children online, with the twin boys often wearing matching or near-identical outfits.  Born Jessica Brownstein, she married television host Ben, who is also the son of a former Canadian prime minister.  The stylist befriended Meghan while the American-born actor was living in Toronto where she was filming the television drama Suits. The two women reportedly bonded over a love of yoga and, before Prince Harry and Meghan made their relationship official, Jessica shared many photos of herself with the now-Duchess of Sussex on her Instagram.  They remain close, with her twin sons carrying Meghan's breathtaking veil as she made her way into St George's Chapel, at Windsor, on 19 May 2018.  The twins famously 'photobombed' the Duchess as they entered the chapel and became overly excited by the wedding's trumpet players.  Jessica's daughter Ivy also served as a flower girl for the Duchess, alongside Princess Charlotte, 4.   In an interview with thestar.com in 2014, Mrs Mulroney described how the boys were best friends. 'Ben was at the MMVAs (iHeartRadio Much Music Video Awards) and John did something really sweet,' she said. 'He hugged Brian from behind and said, 'Brian, you make me great'. ' The article described the children, who had two nannies, as 'incredibly well-behaved'. Twins are two individuals who form in the same uterus. There are a few different kinds: 1. FRATERNAL TWINS (non-identical) These account for two-thirds of twins. Two eggs are fertilized by two sperm and both implanted into the walls of the uterus at the same time. These eggs form separately, in separate sacs adjacent to each other. They share 50 percent of their DNA, as they would with their other non-twin siblings. They can be different genders, though most (around 60 percent) are same-sex twins. Research suggests fraternal twins run in families, typically down the maternal line. 2. IDENTICAL TWINS A single egg is fertilized by one sperm and embeds in the uterus wall. But at some point, it splits from one zygote into two. They do not always share the same amniotic sac, but they always share the same placenta. Those that share the same amniotic sac are known as monoamniotic, while those that have their own are diamniotic. Most identical twins split within eight days of conception. Those that split between eight and 12 days are known as mono-mono twins - incredibly rare.  Those that split after 12 days tend to be conjoined. 
