{ By Harriet Johnston For Mailonline   Published:  14:18, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8029163/Princess-Eugenie-shares-Instagram-post-promoting-sustainability-goals.html }
Princess Eugenie has shared an Instagram post sporting a £35 UN friendship band before saying she'd share the second one with singer Ellie Goulding.  The royal, 29, who lives in London, posted an image of herself alongside a caption announcing she was an ambassador for #TogetherBand. The Together bands, which sell for £35 and come in a pack of two, each promote a different UN Global Goal, with Princess Eugenie opting to promote Decent Work and Economic Growth.  Princess Eugenie, who is founder of charity The Anti Slavery Collective, wrote: 'I'd 'd like to share my band with @EllieGoulding who is consistently fighting to change the world.' Sharing the post online, Eugenie wrote: 'I'm so proud to be part of #TOGETHERBAND. 'I chose Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth because I believe that everyone in the world deserves to be free from slavery and that all people have the right to their own future.'   'Through my work with TASC I’ve seen the incredible power of what can be achieved when people support and uplift each other.'  She wrote: 'With #TOGETHERBAND we have the opportunity to create great change and I hope we can all join forces to reach the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.'   She added: 'Get your Goal 8 #TOGETHERBAND now to support Decent Work and Economic Growth.'  The royal said she would share her band with Ellie Goulding in the post, crediting the singer for her work 'changing the world'.  The two have been friends for many years, and have been photographed together partying in London and holidaying abroad.   Tackling modern slavery has long been an important cause for the royal, who first became passionate about it after visiting Women's Interlink during a 2013 trip to India with her mother, Sarah, Duchess of York.  Following her visit to the charity - which helps vulnerable women find employment opportunities - Eugenie became involved with several different organisations , such as the Salvation Army, before starting her own initiative.    It comes after a royal biographer said Princess Eugenie and her sister Princess Beatrice, 29, would 'be brought forward' because it's 'what the needs' after the Duke, 35, and Duchess of Sussex, 38, decided to step back from royal life.  Speaking to Hello! earlier this year, Robert said the sisters would be 'brought forward' if they were willing to be, saying: 'If two go out, two have got to come in, and those two have got to be Beatrice and Eugenie.'  The royal biographer called it 'a consequence' of the Duke and Duchess of Sussexes' decision that Princess Beatrice and Eugenie would step forward and be welcomed.  The sisters, who are ninth and tenth in line to the throne, both have full time jobs, and do not receive cheques from the Sovereign Grant, the government-supported fund that finances Queen Elizabeth II's official duties.  Princess Eugenie works as a director for Mayfair-based gallery Hauser & Wirth. The royal, who like her sister receives no money from the Queen, graduated from Newcastle University in September 2009, after studying English Literature and the History of Art. After completing her studies, Eugenie moved to New York to work for online auction firm Paddle8, before moving back to London in 2015 to start a career with Hauser & Wirth. 
