{ By Monica Greep For Mailonline   Published:  14:10, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8029103/Blogger-15-wants-right-wrong-way-use-social-media-taught-schools.html }
A blogger is campaigning for lessons in the ethical way to use social media to be taught in schools, and opened up about dealing with 'cruel' comments on Loose Women this afternoon. Nikki Lilly, 15, from London, is a YouTube star who creates music and make-up videos, and boasts over one million subscribers and an impressive list of achievements; including interviewing both Theresa May and Jeremy Corbyn, as well as winning the Bafta Special Award 2019, celebrating outstanding contribution to media.  The vlogger, who was diagnosed with arteriovenous malformation when she was six affecting her facial tissues, appeared on Loose Women today, where she argued that children should be taught to use social media in a 'positive way', because it's 'such a big part of life'.  She said that while she does receive an outpouring of positivity online, Nikki still has to deal with nasty online trolls, but tries to 'turn hate comments on their head' and think about the person posting the remark.  She said: 'I think we should teach kids how to use their platform in a positive way, it's such a big part of life. It's only right we show kids there is a right way and wrong way to use social media.' Nikki explained that while at first the comments on her videos were disabled, she eventually switched them off, and although she doesn't get too many nasty comments  - she does receive trolling online. She added: 'I do get cruel comments, I get hate comments, they do still get to me. But if you turn that on its head, it's a lot more about the hater then it is you.'  Nikki started making videos when her medical condition left her unable to leave the house and socialise with friends, and says she 'lost touch with the outside world'. The blogger admitted that while social media can be detrimental,  it's helped her to find a sense of 'community' and feels teaching how to use it correctly could be a 'great thing'.  'I think there are a lot of cons with mental health with social media', said Nikki, 'But I think if taught to use it correctly,  it can be a really great thing'.  'It's really helped me to have a community and an insight into the outside world when I wasn't able to. Social media can be used to find your tribe.'  Nikki's visible condition means normal tissues become painful or fragile and grow progressively larger over time, and she admitted that her diagnosis made her lose 'all of her confidence'.  She said: 'I think that when you are faced with hardship, you either sit there and let it happen or you make the most of the cards your dealt.  'When I was diagnosed, I was such a chatty child and I lot all of my confidence, but when I started making videos - it made me so happy.'  'I think I just realised that I could use this little platform that was growing slowly, to make a difference to just one person.'  Last year, Nikki became the youngest ever recipient of a Children's BAFTA Special Award, following in the footsteps of Jacqueline Wilson and The Chuckle brothers as a recipient of the special award.  During her interview with Theresa May in 2018, the vlogger quizzed the then prime minister on whether she'd rather go on Strictly or Bake Off, and presented the politician with a homemade quiche.  Later, May delivered a personal message to Nikki where she hailed her 'inspirational' following their exchange thanked her for her 'superb' baked goods.   An arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is a specific term used to describe a tangle of blood vessels with abnormal connections between arteries and veins. High pressure arteries containing fast flowing blood are directly connected to low pressure veins, which normally only contain slow flowing blood. This means that blood from the arteries drains directly into the veins - without stopping to supply the normal tissues in that part of the body with essential substances like oxygen and nutrition. Over time this can lead to the normal tissues becoming painful or fragile. It also means that the AVM gets progressively larger over time as the amount of blood flowing through it increases, and it can cause problems due to its size. Finally, it may also mean that the heart has to work harder to keep up with the extra blood flow. Some doctors describe an AVM as 'a ring road that bypasses the high street of a town'. Traffic (or blood) will use the bypass rather than the high street which suffers as a result. AVMs are thought to affect approximately 1.4 in every 100,000 people. Source: Great Ormond Street Hospital  
