{ By Eve Buckland and Andrew Bullock For Mailonline   Published:  11:59, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8028893/Line-Duty-fans-WILD-notice-Dot-Cotton-quit-drama-begins-filming-series-six.html }
Line of Duty fans went wild as they realised EastEnders legend Dot Cotton - whose name was used for the show's most infamous bent copper - quit the soap as series six of the police drama began filming.  Rumours began swirling on Twitter that Dot, real name June Brown, was AC-12 supervillain H in a hilarious social media exchange. June, 93, announced her departure from the soap after 35 years on Thursday, and with the demise of Matthew 'Dot' Cottan, AKA The Caddy, in series three, fans speculated Dot was set to trade the launderette for the interrogation room.  It began with the tweet: 'So #JuneBrown leaves EastEnders as #LineofDuty begins filming...'   A fan quickly responded: 'Dot is H' while another added: 'Dot is the final H.' Adding fuel to the fire the BBC show's official account quoted the tweet and wrote: 'DOT DOT DOT...    In a humorous play on words of Superintendent Ted Hasting's line in series five  'I didn't float up the Lagan in a bubble' one fan wrote: 'I didn't just float down the Thames in a bubble fellah. Dun dun dun, dun dun dunna dun dun.' Another wrote: 'So Mr Popadopolous was H all along...running a network of bent coppers from the back of the laundrette!' One typed: 'Hold on.... June Brown? J = 10th letter of the alphabet B = 2nd letter of the alphabet 10-2 =8 8th letter of the alphabet is??? AC12 looking in wrong place.'   Another wrote in homage to Hastings: 'Now we're sucking cigarettes??'     This comes four days after the cast and crew of Line Of Duty started work on the sixth series. Star Martin Compston looked thrilled to be back at AC-12 as he posed for a snap with co-star Adrian Dunbar and show creator Jed Mercurio. Adrian looked smart, in his role as Superintendent Ted Hastings, while Martin wore one of the waistcoats his character DS Steve Arnott has become known for, in a snap that was posted to Instagram. This prompted a comment from absent co-star Vicky McClure, who posted underneath the photo: 'See you soon Ted, Jed & Waistcoat!!!' Martin captioned the photo: 'Day one in the AC12 house. 4months to go!' Vicky is clearly due on set soon, with the rest of the cast starting without her this week. Line Of Duty creator and scribe Jed shared the very first images from behind-the-scenes of the upcoming sixth season of the hugely-popular cop drama on Monday. Snapping some candid photos from the set on the first day of filming, a clapper board is seen in one shot, while the members of AC-12 are congregating in their office in another. The sixth instalment of the hit thriller is set a year and a half on from the events of series five, and will feature a brand new case for the anti-corruption team, focused on an enigmatic Detective Chief Inspector. As previously announced, Kelly Macdonald will star as the DCI in question - Joanne Davidson - a senior investigating officer on an unsolved murder case. Series leads Vicky McClure, Martin Compston and Adrian Dunbar will all return - seen shooting the scenes on Monday. Joining Line of Duty for the first time are Shalom Brune-Franklin (Our Girl, Cursed), Perry Fitzpatrick (This Is England, I Am Nicola), Andi Osho (Kiri, Curfew) and Prasanna Puwanarajah (Doctor Foster, Patrick Melrose).  The cast posed for a photo together on Tuesday for their first series six read-through... and sent fans of the BBC show wild.  McClure, Dunbar and Compston met up with new cast member Macdonald as they congregated as a group for the first time since production on the anticipated new season kicked off. The BBC's official Twitter account posted the snap, as the cast posed in a corridor, and captioned it: 'Back to work for this lot at the #LineOfDuty Series 6 read-through!'  McClure shared the photo to Instagram and captioned it: 'And big warm welcome to Kelly!! Series 6...let's be havin ya!'  Show creator Mercurio said: 'We're honoured that Kelly Macdonald will join Martin, Vicky and Adrian in Series 6 of Line of Duty. DCI Joanne Davidson will prove the most enigmatic adversary AC-12 have ever faced.' She will follow in the footsteps of the likes of Keeley Hawes (series two and three), Thandie Newton (series four) and Stephen Graham (series five), all of whom have been big name additions to the cast of the police corruption drama. Series regular Compston fueled fan excitement for the upcoming sixth series as he shared a snap of the script's first episode.  The actor, 35, who plays Detective Steve Arnott, built on anticipation for the new series with the photo and wrote, 'Guys... I'm scared,' in the caption. Viewers of the BBC One series were quick to express their joy at this post, with one saying they know he will be able to pull off whatever the writers throw at him. They wrote: 'I hope Jed is good this year - he's been through the mill! Mind you - that's a credit to you as he knows you can pull off anything he throws at you on screen.' Another fan wrote on the post, which has garnered more than 35,000 'likes':'This has made my Christmas! So excited!' One viewer could not contain their joy at the news of the script's competition and said: 'You are scared??? I've just peed myself with excitement.'  It comes after Mercurio left fans speculating he had revealed the identity of bent copper H when he dropped a major clue about series six. The writer, 53, whipped up a social media storm with viewers of the smash-hit BBC show when he shared a photo of Australian chocolate biscuits TimTams with the caption #LineofDuty Series 6 Plot Clue No. 1.' Manufactured by Arnott's - the same surname as AC-12 guru DS Steve Arnott - the cryptic snap sent viewers into a frenzy, with theories ranging from a move to Australia to Steve breaking up with his girlfriend. One fan believes that despite outward appearances, the link is actually to Steve's colleague DI Kate Fleming (played by Vicky McClure). They wrote: 'The guy who created the biscuit is called Timothy 'Tamworth' FLEMING For a company called ARNOTTS Nothing is a coincidence on this show! BUT WHAT DOES IT MEAN, I think my head is exploding...' Another fan predicted a move Down Under for Steve, writing: 'Its set in Australia? or does Steve get slammed? OMG cant wait.' A third wrote: 'Clearly this will be taking him to Australia for some kind of filming.' A whimsical viewer wrote: 'Steve's going to leave the force and set up a biscuit company? My theory is the biscuit company is Arnott's and the biscuit bar is breaking so Steve will have broken up with his girlfriend and be investigating her or someone in his department.' The most recent episode of Line Of Duty, series five's finale on BBC One back in May, was one of the most watched programmes of 2019, with a 28-day figure of 13.7 million viewers across all TV and online viewing. During the jaw-dropping episode, Jed dropped the bombshell there was not just one super villain H but four caddies. Steve discovered the vital clue when a clip of DI Matthew 'Dot' Cottan's dying declaration was played during AC-12 boss Ted Hasting's interrogation with Patricia Carmichael (Anna Maxwell-Martin). Mercurio told RadioTimes.com in October 2019, 'I would hope [the sixth season will air] sometime in 2020, next year.'  A promo for the BBC's 2020 line-up featured footage of the show, confirming that it will indeed return this year.  Line Of Duty creator Jed Mercurio excited fans when he shared the first clue about the plot of season six to Twitter. Uploading a snap of a packet of the Australian chocolate biscuits TimTams with the caption '#LineofDuty Series 6 Plot Clue No. 1', fans began to ferociously speculate as to what it might mean. But one plot point hanging over the next season of the show is about the identity of the ominous 'H'. While the mystery was somewhat answered in the season five finale, it was also revealed that there are FOUR people pertaining to be 'H', with the final one still unknown. So who could it be? Patricia Carmichael (Anna Maxwell Martin)  She was one of season five's stand-out characters, swooping in towards the end of the series to interrogate Ted Hastings - highly suspected to be 'H' at the time. And while she simply seemed to be excellent at her job - and hellbent on uncovering the corruption within the department - could it be that Patricia Carmichael was SO keen to pin the blame on Ted to take the focus away from herself. Could SHE be the fourth 'H'? Her position of power and respect, along with her unnaturally steely and cut-throat demeanor, could well point to this. Ted Hastings (Adrian Dunbar) Ted Hastings was pinpointed by viewers of the show, as well as the characters on the show, to be a candidate for 'H'. But it seemed he was exonerated by the end of season five, allowed to walk free. But could be potentially be triple-crossing us all? Could he in fact STILL be the potential fourth 'H'. The biggest issue with this theory is that Gill Biggeloe - one of the three revealed to be 'H' - was so against him. Surely she wouldn't be working to deter him if they were in league? UNLESS, she doesn't KNOW he is the fourth 'H'? DCC Andrea Wise (Elizabeth Rider) Detective Chief Constable Andrea Wise was new to the show in season five and is another high-powered contender for 'H'. She has been constantly interfering when it has come to supporting AC-12’s investigations, removing them from the investigation into Operation Pear Tree. She also instigated the Ted Hastings investigation. She is also keen to cover up police corruption, despite announcing at the end of season five: 'This constabulary will work tirelessly to root out rotten apples in its ranks.' PCC Rohan Sindwhani (Ace Bhatti) Police and Crime Commissioner Rohan Sindwhani demanded to be 'in on' a meeting between Andrea Wise and Ted Hastings. This might be a small clue but any clue could be valid at this point. Any shady behavior suggests 'H' is at play, and so Rohan could indeed be culpable.   
