{ By Phoebe Eckersley For Mailonline   Published:  11:45, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8028653/Met-Police-officer-Big-Andy-tackled-gang-crime-dies-blood-clot-aged-37.html }
A Met police officer who amassed 70,000 followers on Instagram with his humorous videos tackling gang crime has tragically died at age 37.  Andy Taylor, known as Big Andy, became an online sensation after he was filmed approaching gangs with a pink unicorn t-shirt and steering teenagers away from knife crime. The officer, from Brackley, Oxfordshire, who was credited with changing attitudes to the police on social media, passed away on January 29.    A blood clot formed in his brain stem after he suffered a stroke, tests revealed.   The father-of-three left behind his wife of 11 years Holly Taylor, 35 and three children Aurora, six, Aurelia, four, and two-year-old Xander. Thousands of young people paid tribute to ‘Big Andy’ on social media who was dubbed by his fans as the UK’s most popular police officer. Jvmi wrote: 'RIP to one of the coolest cops in the force.' Imran Hussain Amir said Andy 'restored [his] faith in the police and was a 'great human'.  Cpkilmartin added 'RIP My unicorn hero' while another admitted he was the 'only fed man I actually liked'. Another individual wrote 'RIP to the only cop that was actually respected on the gram' - whilst a user called Bjjr.x13 sadly remarked 'this was the only fed that I wanted to stay'. In his videos, Andy would use humour to persuade young people against knife and gang crime - wearing his trademark unicorn t-shirt and his comic catchphrase 'go clean your room!' Mrs Taylor, who is also a Met Police Officer, described her husband as a 'massive presence'. She said: 'Communication was his biggest asset. Andy prided himself on his belief that communication was all about respect and all about talking to people and understanding what they’re going through.  'He believed that just because someone was doing something bad that doesn’t make them bad.' A Just Giving campaign made by fans has reached almost £17,000 after it was set up to benefit Andy’s family here.   
