{ By Camilla Canocchi for Thisismoney.co.uk   Published:  11:23, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8028725/Bullring-owner-Hammerson-sells-nine-retail-parks-455m.html }
Bullring owner Hammerson has sold another nine retail parks for a total of £455million as it continues with an overhaul to reduce debts and strengthen its balance sheet. Hammerson said it offloaded seven sites, including its Forge shopping park in Telford and Cleveland retail park in Middlesbrough, to Orion European Real Estate, for £400million. Separately, it sold Parc Tawe in Swansea and Abbey retail park in Belfast for a total of £55million. Hammerson's last remaining retail park is Brent South, part of London's Brent Cross, in which the company has a stake through a joint venture with Aberdeen Standard Investments, but it said that was also marked for sale. 'Against a challenged retail and investment backdrop we have exited the retail parks sector', said chief executive David Atkins.  Hammerson has sold 14 retail parks since July 2018, pocketing £764million.     'Having achieved disposals of close to £1billion since the beginning of 2019, our focus remains on strengthening our balance sheet to create further resilience,' Atkins said. 'The completion of this strategic disposal enables us to create a more concentrated portfolio of flagship venues, premium outlets and city quarters which we expect will deliver greater levels of both income stability and growth over the medium term.' In July 2018, Hammerson announced plans to leave the retail parks sector over the medium term to focus on its flagship assets in major cities across Europe.  It comes as shopping centres owners have struggled in recent years amid a deepening retail crisis, as customers increasingly move online to do their shopping.  Rival Shopping centre owner Intu is also struggling with debts. Its plans to raise fresh finance were dealt a big blow last week after Hong Kong based property investor Link Real Estate Investment Trust decided it will not join its cash call.  Hammerson shares closed down 2 per cent at 222p.  
