{ By Claire Toureille For Mailonline   Published:  11:06, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8028601/Hilarious-video-shows-five-year-old-girls-unimpressed-comment-meets-newborn-baby-brother.html }
A little girl has become an online sensation after giving her very scathing view of her new baby brother upon meeting him for the first time.  Skye Masson, 26, from Glasgow gave birth to a healthy baby boy, Carter Mason on February 18 at the Southern General Maternity Unit, but his sister, Harper, five, was not impressed.  The young girl could be heard saying 'look at the state of him,' during her visit in a video clip that went viral on Twitter.  Skye's sister, Renèe Shaw, 18, filmed what was meant to be a video of the heartwarming moment Harper saw her baby brother for the first time, and captured the hilarious comment.  Shortly after Skye gave birth, her family came over to see her and her newborn son, including five-year-old Harper.  In the short clip, the youngster walked up to her mother, who was resting with Carter in the post-natal ward of the hospital.  The young girl, wearing blue bows in her hair, got closer in order to take a proper look at her brother Carter.  Half lying on her mother's hospital bed, she pondered Carter, dressed in adorable navy blue pyjamas adorned with white stars. That's when she told Skye: 'Look at the state of him!' as she frolicked across the mattress.  Skye and Renèe were both shocked at her comment, but the 18-year-old decided to post the funny video on her Twitter account with the caption: 'Listen closely to see what Harper thinks of her new baby brother.' The video went viral, gathering over 254,000 views and 11,700 likes, leaving dozens of users in hysterics at Harper's cheeky comeback. One said: 'Lmao, howling at this'  Another described her as 'iconic', while a fellow commenter remarked: 'She did say it very politely though.' However, Renèe said Harper adores her baby brother and cannot wait to start playing with him when he arrives home from the hospital. Speaking about the moment, Renèe said: 'My sister Skye gave birth on Tuesday. 'I was shocked when Harper said that about her baby brother and Skye was shocked also. 'But now Harper adores her baby brother and cannot wait until he is home.'   
