{ By Monica Greep For Mailonline   Published:  10:14, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8028243/GMB-viewers-clash-not-tip-delivery-drivers.html }
Good Morning Britain viewers clashed over whether or not you should tip your delivery driver, with many arguing they shouldn't be responsible for tipping drivers who are already paid a wage on the morning show today.  British actress and comedian Kate Robbins, 57, appeared on the show this morning alongside former Apprentice star Joanna Jarjue, where she claimed that she tips 'everybody' and insisted she get's better customer service because of it.  However, Joanna believes that tipping culture stems from America and believes that good customer service is 'part of their job', and doesn't think people should be responsible for tipping.  Viewers were left divided over the issue, with many insisting that they're 'already being paid' for their job, while some argued that there was 'nothing wrong with helping to boost a driver's low wage'.   Joanna argued: 'I think in this country we have a minimum wage, we have a living minimum wage and the tipping culture comes from America, because of the hospitality culture.' Naming the main three reasons you might want to tip, she said: 'So I think there are reasons someone might tip, like if you have extra cash and you just kind of want to give that person which is fine, each to their own.  'Also if you think someone is underpaid or you have good customer service. Which is why you would do it in a restaurant, but I think doing it for a delivery driver is a bit too far.'  But Kate disagreed, insisting: 'I tip everybody. If you get shopping delivered by a supermarket, which I do through idleness, I feel so sorry for them.  'There are no plastic bags now and they bring it all, in they put it away.'   But host Adil Ray, 45, then made the point that he would occasionally order a takeaway that turned out to be cold, and insisted he wouldn't want to tip before he knows whether the service was good or not.  However Kate hit back: 'The very fact that the food is cold means it's been a cold journey, don't you feel sorry for the driver? It's empathy.  But Joanna retorted with: 'There are so many jobs in this country that pay the same wage as a delivery driver. 'I used to work in customer service go out of my way for a customer,  I never expected a tip.'  Kate went on to argue that if you give staff a tip at the beginning of an evening, the service you receive tends to be better than others.   Joanna insisted: 'I don't want to bribe someone it's part of your job description to give good service, you should treat every customer the same.   'I've been in situations where I've been in a good mood,  I'll say keep the change but I'm not gonna go out of my way to pat myself down for change.'  Several viewers agreed with Joanna, and felt that they shouldn't be responsible for tipping drivers who are already paid a wage, especially when already forking out for 'overpriced' food.  'I don’t have cash at home so hard to tip anyone and you’ve already paid online. Don’t tip the postman or other delivery/ parcel drivers so why with a take away', said one.   'No, their bosses should pay them a fair enough wage that they don’t need tips tipping is nice tho! But people shouldn’t have to', agreed another.  A third commented: 'No, the food you pay for in the first place is way overpriced as it is and the delivery cost!'  Another agreed: 'No, sorry. If I've paid by card I won't then give the driver £5. They are getting paid as a DELIVERY DRIVER so why do they get paid twice?'. However, some other's were in favour of Kate's argument, and felt that drivers often rely on their tips to improve their wage with one insisting they 'can't believe' some people don't tip drivers.  Another wrote: 'You wouldn’t dream of not tipping a waiter at a restaurant ... why is a delivery driver any different. Often it’s worse for them out in all weathers etc bring you YOUR food... can’t believe how tight people are.'  A third agreed: 'A lot of delivery drivers rely on their tips it helps boost their pathetic wage they get, hence why a lot of them choose doing this as a second job.'    
