online
{ By Mary Kekatos For Dailymail.com and Ryan Fahey For Mailonline and Associated Press   Published:  08:32, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8028261/Bodycam-video-shows-armed-cop-shooting-window-New-Jersey-kosher-shootout.html }
Newly-released bodycam footage shows an armed police officer shooting from a window during a gunfight with anti-Semitic attackers who killed a cop and three people at a Jersey City kosher grocery late last year.   The clip, which was obtained by the Associated Press on Thursday with another six videos through the state's open records law, spans roughly three hours from the December 10 incident.  Authorities identified the attackers as David Anderson and Francine Graham and said they were fueled by a hatred of Jewish people and law enforcement.  One video capturing part of the shootout shows a Jersey City police officer firing his pistol toward the market from the window of Sacred Heart Catholic School across the street.  The officer is seen reloading his weapon as numerous volleys of gunfire are heard. 'I think he's down. No, he's still moving,' the unidentified officer is heard saying.  The officer moves past rows of small desks from one classroom, past lockers and into another before he shoots out of the window, which had been decorated with a paper cutout of an angel. Schools in Jersey City had been locked down that day.  In another video, the cop ducks below the window fearing friendly fire after someone notices his gun pointed at the grocery store. 'It's a[n] officer!' he yells.  He then picks up his walkie-talkie and indicates that he's a police officer, saying: 'That's friendly inside of Sacred Heart. I say again: friendly, blue.'   Anderson, 47, and Graham, 50, fatally shot Detective Joseph Seals at a cemetery before they drove to JC Kosher Supermarket on Martin Luther King Boulevard.   Authorities say Seals was at the cemetery to meet a man to talk about returning an impounded vehicle. While waiting, Seals confronted the pair after he saw their van and believed it was connected to a recent killing in nearby Bayonne.   At the market, the couple killed co-owner Mindel Ferencz, 33; employee Douglas Miguel Rodriguez; and Moshe Deutsch, 24, a rabbinical student from Brooklyn who was shopping. According to authorities,  Rodriguez held open the back door of the store for a customer to escape before he was killed.  Eventually, the SWAT team used its vehicle as a battering ram and slammed hard into the grocery store. Inside, they found the bodies of the three victims as well as the bodies of Anderson and Graham, who had been killed in the lengthy gun battle.   In their couple's U-Haul van was a pipe bomb and a note that read: 'I do this because my creator makes me do this and I hate who he hates,' reported the New York Post. Two of the videos show the moment one of the shooters exited the van Anderson drove to the store.  Authorities said Anderson exited the white rental van they drove to the scene carrying an AR-15 style weapon, while Graham carried a 12-gauge shotgun into the shop. The video shows passersby scattering away from the shop as the couple enters. Police arrived at the market less than two minutes after the shooters exited the van.  Another clip shows a police vehicle smashing into the store front nearly three hours after Anderson and Graham arrived.  Police also shared 25 911 calls made in the minutes after the shooting.  State and federal law enforcement officials said Anderson and Graham expressed hatred of Jews and law enforcement in notes left at the grocery shooting scene and in online posts. Five weapons and hundreds of rounds of ammunition were found in the store after the attackers were killed. Investigators also found a bomb in the couple's van that could have sprayed shrapnel fragments. The van also contained materials that could have made a second bomb.  Investigators found among Anderson's social media posts a reference to Jews as 'imposters who inhabited synagogues of Satan.' Anderson received about $560 per month as a military veteran and may have sold property and a van to make money, officials said. However, officials have found no evidence he received outside assistance to purchase weapons or bomb-making materials. Anderson and Graham had searched other Jewish locations to carry out their attack, but it's unclear why they chose the grocery store. 
