online
{ By Eve Buckland For Mailonline   Published:  08:43, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8028191/Liam-Payne-heads-dinner-LA-sister-expressed-concern-negativity.html }
Liam Payne stepped out for a sushi dinner in Beverly Hills, Los Angeles on Thursday,  one day after his sister expressed concern about negativity directed towards him on Twitter. The One Direction singer, 26,  looked dapper in a crisp blue shirt paired with black trousers as he headed to Matsuhisa sushi restaurant. The Strip That Down hitmaker layered up in a black jacket with white piping and completed his ensemble with leather Grenson Grover boots. The star wore his brunette locks in a sculpted quiff and sported a clean-shaven appearance. Liam remained stoic as he walked into the restaurant, after jetting stateside for the Deontay Wilder v Tyson Fury II fight in Las Vegas.  Liam's appearance comes after his concerned sister Ruth shared a moving message about kindness due to the 'negativity' her brother receives on Twitter.    Ruth admitted she worries about Liam's mental health and whether he is 'strong enough' to cope with the pressure of fame, encouraging people to think twice before writing hurtful comments online. She said:  'I dont use twitter alot anymore as this is the darkest place ive seen in the past in regards to comments about my brother and everyday it makes me worry if hes strong enough to take that much negativity in public daily, so it really is such a personal message #bekind. (sic)' Ruth's posts were all the more poignant in light of presenter Caroline Flack's tragic death at the weekend and the outpouring of public grief for the presenter, 40, who took her own life at her London flat on Saturday.      Liam's sister was watching the BRIT Awards 2020 from home while her brother gave the ceremony a miss this year. She threw her support behind the star's former bandmate Harry Styles, who performed a beautiful rendition of his ballad Falling on the night. Ruth tweeted, 'Well that was a stunning performance @Harry_Styles', and later added, 'I bet the band category are glad that 1D arent together still'. She then posted: 'Also just wanted to say in the shadows of what happened the weekend, please #bekind to each other and everyone on here and if you need support, please reach out and talk to someone, anyone, but please remember you are all needed in this life xx   'I dont use twitter alot anymore as this is the darkest place ive seen in the past in regards to comments about my brother and everyday it makes me worry if hes strong enough to take that much negativity in public daily, so it really is such a personal message #bekind. 'So spread happiness, be funny without hurting peoples feelings and push each other to succeed #bekind'. Liam's fans were quick to comment and show their love and support for the down-to-earth singer, rallying around him and showing him love. One shared: '@LiamPayne just a little reminder that you're loved. the way you're treated online is so unfair and unreasonable and I'm sorry for people wasting their time here spreading hate towards you but I really hope you don't give a f**k to any of these kind of comments'.   Another posted, 'Tell Liam that we love him. He is one of the strongest people ever. We are SO proud of him and everything he achieved', while a third shared, 'This hurts so bad.. I think a huge part of this fandom sees what’s going on and tries to fight for him. He’s loved, by so many of us.. I hope he knows that.' 'I’m sorry Ruth, people really can’t understand nowadays that there are REAL people behind the phones.. people with feelings. This is just f**ked up and I’m sorry you’re feeling like this. I’m sending love to you and your whole family...', another kind post read. Liam has been lying low of late following a string of appearances with his model girlfriend Maya Henry and his underwear collaboration with Hugo Boss.       Liam, meanwhile, recently congratulated Harry on his chart success, whose second solo album Fine Line topped the US Billboard 200 charts in December. Comparatively, Liam's album, the long-awaited LP1 released on December 6, has peaked at number 17 in the UK and a bruising 111th place on the American charts. Liam thanked his fans for their unwavering support online, saying: 'Thanks to everyone that’s picked up the album so far... your support doesn’t go unnoticed.'      
