online
{ By Amie Gordon For Mailonline   Published:  08:19, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8028133/Radio-5-Live-host-Mickey-Clark-latest-victim-BBC-cost-cut.html }
Radio presenters Mickey Clarke and Louise Cooper have today been announced as the latest victims in the BBC's stringent £80million cost-cutting exercise.   Mr Clarke, who has been at the station since it started in 1994, and Ms Cooper, both work on BBC Radio 5 Live's Wake Up To Money show.  The pair have now been axed in line with an £80million savings programme, with Mr Clarke telling listeners today he'd been sacked because the BBC, 'needs to chase a younger audience.' The news sparked an outpouring of fury among fans of the show, who hit out at the BBC for axing the pair.   The BBC is proposing to make the following changes to its output: Cooper hosts the early morning business news programme alongside lead presenter Sean Farrington on Mondays and Tuesdays and Clarke joins him for the remainder of the week. Farrington told listeners today: 'Before we crack on with the rest of the show, we've got a bit of news about us on Wake Up To Money. Next week will be the last time Louise and Mickey will be on the shows.  'It's part of a series of changes that you may have seen or heard that were announced lately to help Five 5 and BBC news reach new savings targets so that's the reasoning behind it. I don't need to say how much they will be missed.'  Clarke added: 'You've worked in this game all those years, getting the sack is an occupational hazard; its not the first time, hopefully it will be the last.  'But you know if the BBC does need to chase a younger audience they don't want coffin dodgers like me blocking the room.' In January, a cull of 450 jobs in the corporation's news department was unveiled. Staff were left reeling at the scale of the cutbacks, which will see around one in 13 roles go and are part of an £80million savings programme. Newsnight, BBC2's flagship current affairs show, is among the programmes bearing the brunt of the cuts, along with the Victoria Derbyshire show, popular radio station Radio 5 Live and the World Service, which will lose 50 roles. As a result, the BBC, which has about 6,000 news staff, will cover fewer stories and plough more money into its online output, saying it was currently 'spending too much' on 'traditional linear broadcasting'. The show will continue to air on Radio 5 and will be extended by 15 minutes, starting at 5am from April. Sean Farrington will present the show solo from March.    A BBC spokesperson said: 'Louise and Mickey are brilliant journalists who will be missed by listeners and colleagues alike. Mickey has been at the station since it started in 1994 and is a 5 Live legend.  'Louise is a great broadcaster who has made a superb contribution to Wake Up To Money. We wish them both well for the future. The programme will continue to provide the best business, work and consumer news each morning and will now be extended by 15 minutes.'  Victoria Derbyshire last month confronted the chief of BBC News, asking if bosses had lied to her about the axing of her BBC Two current affairs programme. The 51-year-old presenter asked the BBC's director of news and current affairs Fran Unsworth if they had lied to her and her team about the show's goals. Ms Unsworth, who earns £340,000 a year, apologised about the programme being cut, telling the host: 'I'm paid to make really difficult decisions about this.' Ms Derbyshire, who earns £215,000 a year, found out about the cut last week after reading it in a newspaper and admitted she was left 'absolutely devastated'. But Ms Unsworth said during today's meeting at Broadcasting House: 'I'd like to apologise to the team for the way the story emerged, that was not our intention.' Ms Derbyshire condemned claims by the BBC that it is cutting her show because it failed to grow its live audience. She tweeted: 'We were NEVER asked to grow the linear TV audience. Ever. We were asked to grow our digital audience - we did. 'Our digi figures are huge (our successful digital figures appear to be an inconvenience to those making the decisions).' She added: 'Our remit when we were set up: 1. Original journalism 2. Reaching underserved audiences 3. Growing the digital figures. We achieved all three.' Ms Derbyshire live tweeted from a briefing to BBC staff about the cuts to the news division as part of a cost-reduction drive. She posted an image of a screen from the presentation, entitled Modernising BBC News, which she said was being streamed to staff elsewhere in the BBC. She told her followers: 'Head of internal comms just said to us all, 'enjoy and relax'.' And she wrote of the BBC's director of news and current affairs: 'Fran Unsworth arrives.... 'Cheery' music in room like you hear when you're your put on hold.....' An online petition calling for the corporation to reverse the BBC's decision to cut the programme has more than 30,000 signatures. 
