online
{ By Zoe Zaczek For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  07:53, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8027945/Brave-nine-year-old-bullied-dwarfism-speaks-viral-video.html }
A nine-year-old boy who admitted he wanted to kill himself after being bullied for his dwarfism has urged others to stand up for themselves. Yarraka Bayles, from Brisbane, filmed her son Quaden crying in the car after she picked him up from school on Wednesday.  The schoolboy, who has the most common type of dwarfism called achondroplasia, told his mother: 'Give me a rope, I want to kill myself.'  The Bayles family have been inundated with messages of support from people across the globe after the video was viewed more than 17 million times. Speaking to NITV in the wake of the viral footage, Quaden encouraged others to stand up for themselves when face-to-face with a bully. 'If you get bullied, just stand up for yourself and don't listen to what they say,' he said. The nine-year-old believes parents should educate their children about people with disabilities to prevent further bullying.   'The parents should make their kids be nice to people with disabilities,' he said. Ms Bayles said her 'strong' son wants other people to know how he feels and no longer wants to 'suffer in silence'.  'It's 2020 and bullying is at an all-time high and especially within our communities, people don't understand that if you're Indigenous, you're already copping discrimination and racism,' she said. Ms Bayles, who shared the video to her Facebook, said it was her 'duty of care' as a mum and community member to speak out about the bullying and take the 'power back'. Quaden said he has received a lot of messages on Instagram from his 'favourite people', including some of his favourite rappers.  The Indigenous All Stars NRL team invited Quaden to lead the squad onto the pitch on Saturday.  Quaden was snapped with Indigenous All Stars player Latrell Mitchell, who donned a South Sydney Rabbitohs jersey after signing with the club for the 2020 season. Mitchell is teammates with Quaden's uncle James Roberts, who is also in the Indigenous All Stars team. The All Stars squad filmed a video for the schoolboy on Thursday, letting him know they were on his side. Mitchell said: 'Hey Quadey... Just wanted to wish you all the best, brother, we know you're going through a hard time right now but the boys are here. 'We've got your back, we're here to support you, bud. We just want to make sure you're doing alright. 'We want you around, we want you to lead us down on the weekend. It's going to mean more to us than it will to you, bud. 'Just make sure you're looking after yourself and hopefully we get to see you in the next couple of days.'  NRL legend Johnathon Thurston also shared a cartoon drawing of Quaden to his Instagram.  'Quaden....stay strong buddy; you are loved! To the bullies....THIS IS NOT OK,' Thurston wrote on alongside the pictures.  Quaden's messages of support are now coming from as far away as the United States and Europe. 'I want you to know there are many people here in Texas supporting you and Quaden,' one person said.  'Just watched your message, so sad watching what your going through, sending my love from Scotland,' added another.  'Hey Quaden I just want you to know you are amazing... Thinking of you and sending loads of love your way from London.' 'Sweet sweet boy. You are beautiful, you are worthy, you are wonderfully made, you are loved. You have friends in California.'  Hugh Jackman also spoke out after the footage of Quaden went viral online.   'Quaden, you are stronger than you know, mate,' Hugh said in a video shared with his 14 million Twitter followers.  Achondroplasia is a disorder of bone growth that prevents the changing of cartilage (particularly in the long bones of the arms and legs) to bone. It is characterised by limited range of motion at the elbows, large head size (macrocephaly), small fingers, and normal intelligence.  Achondroplasia can cause health complications such as interruption of breathing (apnea), obesity, recurrent ear infections and an exaggerated inward curve of the lumbar spine. People with dwarfism have a normal life expectancy. Source: US Department of Health He added: 'And no matter what, you've got a friend in me.'    Ms Bayles shared the video publicly on Facebook in a bid to raise awareness about the impact of bullying.  At the start of the five-minute clip, Ms Bayles said: 'I just picked my son up from school, witnessed a bullying episode, rang the principal and I want people to know this is the effect bullying has. This is what bullying does. 'So can you please educate your children, your families, your friends because all it takes is one more instance... and you wonder why kids are killing themselves. 'This is the impact bullying has a nine-year-old kid who just wants to go to school, get an education and have fun but every single fricking day something happens.'    
