{ By Jessamy Tredinnick For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  07:24, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8027825/David-Cannon-reveals-taught-walk-suffering-spinal-injury.html }
Married At First Sight's David Cannon had to learn to walk again after suffering a debilitating spinal injury. The former Muay Thai fighter suffered the 'devastating' injury in 2016 after eight years of intensive training and a misdiagnosed muscular issue caught up with him. The 31-year-old revealed he would force himself to get up and walk around in order to recover faster.  The reality star went into a fight shortly after winning his second Australian title, despite already struggling with pain in his left leg due to bulged discs, which had apparently been misdiagnosed as a tight muscle band. During the fight, the discs ruptured and were lodged into his spinal cord.  In an Instagram post in 2017, David wrote: 'I was told that there was a 60 per cent chance I would never have the use of my legs return after I was briefly a paraplegic before the surgery.' David told 9Entertainment he had lost 'all feeling' in his left leg, but had to see multiple specialists over several weeks.    'Over those weeks I lost the full use of my left leg, it was basically just dragging, like something out of The Walking Dead,' he told the media outlet.  David had to undergo spinal fusion surgery and was faced with an estimated three month of rehabilitation.    In an online post in 2017, he wrote: 'The doctors don't know s**t! Make your own rules and f**k what others say even if it is the doctors.'  During the recovery process, David would drink three bottles of water every day, which would force him to walk to the bathroom. After he mastered that challenge, he moved on to walking to the letterbox every day, before moving on to his neighbour's letterbox.    'I did that every single day until I eventually got around the whole entire block,' David explained.  His determination allowed him to go back to fighting less than a year after the spinal surgery, this time in a heavier weight class.   David was paired with former drug addict and bodybuilder Hayley Vernon on Married At First Sight, as the experts believed their similar stories of recovery could bond them together.   Married At First Sight continues on Sunday night at 7:00pm  
