{ By Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com   Published:  07:13, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8028035/Selena-Gomez-releases-new-song-Feel-lyrics-reflect-different-place.html }
Just a month after dropping her third album, Rare, in January, Selena Gomez has released a new song, Feel Me, on Thursday. The 27 year old singer actress actually debuted the song while she was on tour for her 2015 album Revival. She revealed that fans haven't stopped talking about the song since her 2016 tour, so she decided to make it official and release the track. Gomez took to Instagram on Thursday night, posting a photo of her on tour, presumably performing Feel Me. 'On the Revival Tour, I introduced a song that you guys haven’t stopped talking about since,' Gomez began. 'Soo you asked and I listened. Today, Feel Me is out online and vinyl everywhere,' Gomez concluded. She also released the official lyric video on her official YouTube page, featuring the entire lyrics. The song comes just after her former flame, Justin Bieber, admitted he was 'reckless' in his relationship with her. Gomez started dating Bieber in December 2010, and they dated off and on before breaking up in earnest in March 2018. Gomez also recently admitted she believes she was a victim of 'emotional abuse' while she was dating Justin.  The 27-year-old Wolves hitmaker made the bombshell disclosure during an interview with NPR on last month. 'I do feel I was a victim to certain abuse [during the relationship]' said the former Disney star.  When asked by the reporter if she was referring to 'emotional abuse', Gomez replied in the affirmative.  'Yes, and I think that it's something that — I had to find a way to understand it as an adult.'  'As much as I definitely don't want to spend the rest of my life talking about this, I am really proud that I can say I feel the strongest I've ever felt and I've found a way to just walk through it with as much grace as possible,' Selena concluded.  No one love you like I love you  Never cheat never lie  Never put no one above you, I gave you space and time  Now you’re telling me you miss it  And I’m still on your mind  We were one in a million  And love is hard to find  Do you stay up late Just so you don’t dream?  Every time your lips touch another  I want you to feel me  I want you to feel me  Every time you dance with somebody  I want you to feel me  I want you to feel me  Do your days get a little bit longer?  Nights get a little bit colder?  Heart beat a little bit louder?  Ohhh  Days get a little bit longer?  Nights get a little bit colder?  Heart beat a little bit louder?  Ohhh  When you’re running  Who you run to?  Where do you go to hide?  When she ain’t giving you enough to  Get you through the night?  Won’t be caught up in the middle  Of your highs and your lows  Baby long as you’re not with me  You’ll always be alone  Do you stay up late  Just so you don’t dream?  Every time your lips touch another  I want you to feel me  I want you to feel me  Every time you dance with somebody  I want you to feel me  I want you to feel me  Do your days get a little bit longer?  Nights get a little bit colder?  Heart beat a little bit louder?  Ohhh  Days get a little bit longer?  Nights get a little bit colder?  Heart beat a little bit louder?  Ohhh  Feel me (feel me)  Feel me (feel me)  Feel me (feel me)  Every time your lips touch another  I want you to feel me  I want you to feel me  Every time you dance with somebody  I want you to feel me  I want you to feel me  Do your days get a little bit longer?  Nights get a little bit colder?  Heart beat a little bit louder?  Ohhh  Days get a little bit longer?  Nights get a little bit colder?  Heart beat a little bit louder?  Ohhh  
