online
{ By Niomi Harris For Mailonline   Published:  09:56, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8041455/Florence-Pugh-cuts-casual-figure-wraps-warm-pink-teddy-bear-jacket-LAX-airport.html }
She was in the running for an Oscar earlier this month for her performance as Amy in Greta Gerwig's new adaptation of Little Women.  And after the glitz and glam of awards season, Florence Pugh cut a casual figure as she touched down at London's Heathrow Airport on Tuesday morning following her flight from Los Angeles. The actress, 24, went make-up free and wore a pink teddy bear jacket from Ragdoll LA as she made her way through the terminal. Florence teamed her outerwear with a black and white striped top and roll-up blue jeans. The star added a quirky pair of patterned lace-up Gucci boots to her look, while clutching her headphones and mobile phone.  She was also seen wheeling a large black Away suitcase through the terminal.   The Midsommar actress looked fresh-faced as she sported a make-up free complexion for the outing. While her blonde locks were swept up into a messy bun complete with a patterned navy scarf.   Florence was without her Scrubs star beau Zach Braff, 44, as she made her way through the terminal.  Florence and Zach have previously faced criticism from online trolls for their 20-year age difference, prompting Florence to laugh off any negativity. Pugh took to Instagram in December to share a photo of herself posing outside a restaurant in Los Angeles, with Zach sharing a princess emoji in the comments section. One of her followers hit out at Zach, telling him 'you're 44-years-old,' prompting Florence to interject, 'And yet he got it.'  Florence's outing comes after she shared two rather cheeky snaps to Instagram recently. The star revealed one picture was taken a moment before she discovered her Oscar nod - and the second showed the exact moment it was confirmed she had been nominated.  Florence made sure to cover her modesty with a bedsheet in one of the pictures and used two artfully placed avocado emojis to cover up in the other. Captioning the image, she wrote: 'Before the moment.. the exact moment. #nominated #foraf***ingoscar!!!!!!' 
