online
{ By Sophie Tanno For Mailonline   Published:  07:09, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8021795/British-man-suspected-FAKING-death-Bali-serial-man.html }
A British man who may have faked his own death in Bali has been accused by his uncle of being a 'slippery' con artist who robbed his own grandmother of her life savings.  Sean Flynn, 58, has accused his nephew Ryan Flynn, 39, who also goes by the name Ryan Roth, of taking thousands from his grandmother who had little money to her name, and claims he is a 'serial fraudster living his life on other people's money'.  An ex-girlfriend of Ryan's from the US, who he dated from 2009 to 2012, says her former partner made some 'bad decisions' which included scamming people, and she was forced to transfer months of outstanding rent money to one of his flatmates.   It comes as Indonesian police investigate whether Ryan committed suicide or if he could have faked his own death, after belongings and a note to his ex girlfriend were found at a cliff edge near the Selonding Temple in Pecatu Village, Bali on Monday, January 20.   A body is yet to be recovered from the scene despite extensive searches of the area and officials on the island are exploring the possibility that Mr Roth, from Southampton, could still be alive.  Ryan, who has spent his life living in various cities around the world, is accused of leaving behind a trail of people who fell victim to his scams.  His uncle believes Ryan owes his late grandmother up to £20,000.  A letter written by Ryan's grandmother to her grandson, and seen by MailOnline, highlights her distress as she tells him: 'I am worrying for the first time in 70 years, I have had no stress and you have put paid to that.  'I trusted you and thought that you of all people would not let me down... 'It took a few hours to get you £3,000 from me [sic], yet six weeks later you have not given me any money that you owe me. You owe me £12,000 plus.  'For the first time in your mother's life she had a few bob behind her in case she was ill any time, you robed [sic] her of that. 'I'll never forgive you for that. You have made me ill since you took all my money.' Sean works as a professional scuba diving instructor and relocated from the UK to Cyprus where he owns a small dive centre specialising in taking disabled people scuba diving for the first time.   He claims his nephew, who was born in Southampton in 1980, left the UK to pursue a glamorous life in America, where he changed his name from Ryan Flynn to Ryan Roth. Ryan's personal website states he 'started traveling the world at 21' and has lived in London, Paris, Tokyo, Bangkok, Sydney, Auckland and Los Angeles.  Ryan's website also describes himself as 'entrepreneurial from an early age' and as having 'achieved success in a number of different professions; Writer, Tennis Coach, Sponsorship Director, Event Planner, Art Consultant, Investment Advisor, Curator and Film Festival Board Member.'   'As a child Ryan always believed he was the smartest in the room, especially at Christmas family gatherings,' Sean told MailOnline.  'He was going to be a professional tennis player because of all the glamour associated with it, then a marine biologist. He went to America to become an actor and went by the name Ryan Roth as he thought he had a better chance as Roth is a common name for actors... 'He didn't contact his late mother for seven years until he wanted money, she never had any as she was poor and would try to borrow money for him as she believed he was starving. 'He borrowed a lot of money from his aunt, she didn't say how much but knows she won't get it back.'  According to Sean, one of the ways Ryan tried to scam money from people was by setting up numerous charities before later dissolving them.  Data logged by the Government's Companies House obtained by MailOnline shows that the company 'Our Planet UK' was set up in 2008 under the name Ryan Flynn, before it was closed down just a year later. Another company 'Living Legends Ltd' was established in 2006, before being dissolved three years later in 2009. The director's name is given as 'Ryan Flynn'.  Ryan's LinkedIn page states that he is the founder and CEO of KaBu & Co., a company which he describes as 'one of the most ethical coffee supply chains in the word' and connects 'farmers to buyers, which reduces the cost to buyers and increases smallholder farmer income.'  A brief message on KaBu & Co.'s website states that the company is no longer in operation as of January 31 last month.  'We regret to inform you that KABU&CO will cease operations as of today January 31, 2020. In line with regulations we have deleted all user data from all marketplaces of KABU&CO,' it reads, citing the 'revenue needed to keep the company going as a self-sustaining business' had been underestimated.  Ryan also states on his LinkedIn page that he attended the University of Southampton to study Psychology and Law but did not complete his degree. 'After doing two years of Psychology and two years of Law I left university with the option to complete,' he writes.  A press officer for Southampton University told MailOnline they could not find any record of Ryan ever studying there.  Ryan's personal website displays an array of interviews he has done with various international publications including Japan Today, in which he discusses his 'services in the art world', and Global Living Magazine, which calls him a 'global influencer' as well as an 'art advisor, curator and businessman'.    Ryan's ex-girlfriend, Karen Jin Beck, who also goes by the name 'DJ Shy', dated Ryan for three years from 2009 to 2012 while he was living in Los Angeles, California.  'He made some bad decisions including scamming people,' Karen admitted to MailOnline.  She alleges she was contacted by one of Ryan's former flatmates who had tracked her down on Facebook, after Ryan had failed to pay her five or six months rent, and she ended up paying her back without Ryan knowing.  'I also witnessed his car getting towed at the beginning of our relationship around 2009. The towing officer said the car was stolen from a car rental company,' she said.    'I told him I would date him under the condition that he would stop, and I would help him pursue something he was passionate about.  'We discovered he could appropriately use his talents in film/TV which he did surprisingly well. After he gained confidence in his abilities, I suggested he start paying people back.  'I've honestly seen the tremendous growth in him,' she added.  'Ryan took down all his charity websites and moved in with me and my roommate... 'For the next couple years, Ryan and I helped each other grow and develop until we broke up in 2012. 'We had to break up because I did not know it was illegal to harbor an immigrant. Ryan had overstayed by two years and I did not want to move out of the country with Ryan.'  The couple apparently lived a glamorous life while they were together in California and appeared on an episode of '1000 Ways To Die' on US pay channel Spike TV, now known as Paramount Network. Karen said she was 'honestly rooting' for her ex boyfriend. 'It seems like he needs to constantly start over especially when someone from the past would contact his associates,' she said.  'I remember he was elated when a talented 18-year-old painter from Korea signed for representation to his Artist Management Company. Ryan was able to contract his art to a major hotel chain. For one reason or another, it was short lived and the painter wanted nothing to do with him. 'I wish Ryan had the opportunity to be able to repay and make amends. It seems like he may have resorted to faking his death in order to start over. I just hope he did not end his life.'  Concern for Mr Roth's well-being was sparked last month after an abandoned motorbike was seen parked on cliff tops at Pecatu Village and closer to the cliff edge a bag filled with a helmet, a bottle of spirit and a letter to his most recent former lover were found.  The note said: 'I'm sorry Alice. I'm the man you fell in love with but past things I never did maybe you feel I was a stranger. I'll always love you. None of this is your fault. Your oldman xx.' Alice, understood to be from Hong Kong, has spoken to police since Mr Roth's disappearance and said there had been no problems with him recently. It emerged after his disappearance last month that police in Australia wanted to speak to a man over a fraud report dating back to 2008.  In response to an inquiry about Mr Roth, NSW Police confirmed to MailOnline a man was wanted for questioning over a fraud report dating back to 2008. 'Following a 2008 online fraud report allegedly involving a then aged 27-year-old man, officers from Sydney City Police Area Command conducted an investigation. 'Investigators are yet to formally speak to the man who left the country.' Previous allegations about Mr Roth emerged from a website claiming to uncover scams. Posts claimed he also goes by the name 'Ryan Flynn' and detailed allegations that he had been involved in scams around the world. One person on the website claims that Mr Roth is known for 'conning people, especially women, for his personal gain.' Another claims that Mr Roth 'was scamming people for money under the distasteful disguise of a child sex trafficking charity.' They added: 'Some of the victims were very upset about what Ryan did as they believed they were helping a charity but ended up out of pocket.' The website also claims the British national sold a '1970 penny to an elderly woman for some A$8,100, essentially robbing her of her life savings'. Searches following the disappearance of Ryan have not yielded any results. The bottom of the cliffs, which rise over 500ft above the sea, are covered in bushes and difficult to reach, rescue teams in Bali said. Hari Adi Purnomo, head of the Denpasar search team, said: 'We went through all the procedures, but we didn't find either the victim or signs of a fall of anyone around the cliff.' According to the Seminyak Times, searches were called off on the Tuesday afternoon following his disappearance, after officers were unable to locate a body or signs that someone had fallen from the cliff edge.  A Foreign Office spokesman said: 'We are supporting the family of a British man missing in Bali, and are in contact with the Indonesian police who are carrying out the search.' Bali police are appealing for people who know Mr Roth to come forward. The investigation continues.             
