online
{ By Jackson Barron For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:49, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8027677/KFC-open-30-high-tech-outlets-Australia-new-dishes-added-menu-month.html }
KFC is preparing to launch 30 new high-tech restaurants throughout Australia as it adds a range of new items to its secret menu. The fast food giant will open the exciting new stores in every state except for Western Australia in locations including Canberra City, Kings Cross and Glen Waverley. The new stores will focus on implementing new technology in the restaurants, and follow on from the world's first two Drive Thru Only KFC stores, which opened in Newcastle, NSW in November and in Mt Gambier, South Australia  in January. KFC South Pacific Chief Marketing Officer Kristi Woolrych told News Corp Australia that the brand were looking into unique store formats to meet increasing demand. 'We are actively focused on looking at tech in our equipment and looking at cook times and hold times so that the quality of our food can be delivered as quickly as possible without compromising taste,' Ms Woolrych said. Data from Roy Morgan Research Institute found that KFC is visited by 23 per cent of Australians over an average four week period. The business is going to focus on their digital and online platforms with their new high-tech stores to create a new experience for their customers. Savvy customers on the KFC app have already reaped the benefits, scoring exclusive items from KFC's secret menu including the Zinger Chipster, the Triple Stacker and the Kentucky Snack Pack. The secret menu is only available to customers using the KFC app, where brand-new items and old favourites appear for buyers.  'What’s really exciting is the secret menu, it’s been a huge hit with app users this year and we’ll continue to innovate there, and drop new products every month,' Ms Woolrych said.  Exciting new storefronts and ordering tactics aside, KFC have not lost focus of what has made them the second most popular fast food restaurant in Australia. Ms Woolrych said the business will continue to sell fresh chicken, with heathier oils and reduced salt, as well as alternative snack options into the future. 'We are not re-branding our restaurant, but Kentucky Fried Chicken is what we make and sell and is part of our heritage and history with the Colonel that made it famous, we continue to use it as a signal of our great tasting chicken,' she said. 
