{ By Shive Prema For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:01, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8027613/Adelaide-prankster-RackaRacka-makes-scene-outside-Christies-Beach-Magistrates-Court.html }
A YouTube prankster who is charged over filling up a car with water and driving it to a bottle shop has made a bizarre stand outside of court.  Michael Alexander Philippou, 27, and his twin brother Danny uploaded the 'scuba driving' video to their YouTube channel RackaRacka, which has six million subscribers, during a heat wave in Adelaide in January 2019.   Phillippou, along with an entourage of friends, spoke to a supporter dressed as Batman and a shirtless fan with 'innocent' painted on his chest outside of Christies Beach Magistrates Court on Friday.  His brother Danny and another friend filmed Phillippou's antics outside of court, presumably for another YouTube video for their six million followers.  In court, the police prosecutor said more evidence was needed to prove Phillippou had driven in a reckless manner, meaning they may have to recreate the prank.  Phillippou is charged with dangerous driving, driving an unregistered vehicle and failing to wear a seatbelt. When asked about the charges, the prankster told the ABC: 'I was possessed by the devil, there's nothing I can do about it.  'If [police] are going to make an underwater car, we've got an underwater car, maybe we can have an underwater car race and see who gets to the bottle shop first.'  Meanwhile, Phillippou's twin brother Danny joked that SA Police could ironically use taxpayer's money to recreate the prank.  Arriving at court, the Phillippou twins and their entourage happily skipped to the entrance for the hearing.  He was joined by the Batman-costumed supporter, who pretended to attack him, and the shirtless supporter as he walked back to his car after the hearing.  During Friday's hearing, the court heard SA Police may have to fill another car's interior compartment with water to prove Phillippou drove in a reckless or dangerous manner without due care. Once the car is filled, an expert would have to test drive it to see how the water affects the vehicle's handling and visibility of the road.   Phillippou's lawyer said his client's bail made need to be amended so he can film a number of movies in the US before the case was adjourned to April.   The twin brothers created the RackaRacka YouTube channel in 2013 and have amassed more than 900 million views across 167 videos and six million subscribers.  
