{ By Mary Mrad For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:42, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8027683/The-29-bronzer-voted-BEST-Australia-thousands-women.html }
With so many different bronzers on the market, it's hard to know which is perfect for you. But one that has proven to be a hit with beauty fans and was even voted as the best in Australia for 2019 is Benefit's Hoola Matte Bronzer. The product, which retails from $29, has received hundreds of glowing reviews on the online review website Beauty Heaven. The award-winning bronzer is available in four shades including the hoola lite, hoola, hoola caramel and hoola toasted. The Benefit product features a 'soft and blendable formula with a matte finish', the website explains. The bronzer also comes with a built-in mirror and a powder brush used to apply the product. Customers seem to love the product, with 94 per cent of reviewers giving it four or five stars out of five. 'I had been searching high and low for the perfect bronzer to use for contouring and thought I was completely out of luck. That was, however, until I met the love of my life - Hoola', one person wrote. 'This is a perfect bronzer to use for contouring and even as an all over bronzer as it contain no shimmer so it gives a beautiful natural tanned look', the person added. Another wrote: 'This little baby is so versatile and a well-used product in my makeup bag! I use this nearly everyday and having purchased the mini 10 months ago, have about half left! Amazing!' 'Best bronzer! It's really pigmented and a little goes a long way but even if you apply a bit too much it's really bendable', one woman explained. One said: 'I love this bronzer, it gives your face a natural glow like no other bronzer. It doesn't have any sort of strong smell and the packaging is strong and compact'. 'I use this whenever I want to be visibly bronzed... It's a really great product and the formula is perfect over the top of other products. Very impressed and I will continue to use it', another agreed. 
