online
{ By Alison Bevege For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:32, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8026917/Tik-Tok-pranksters-wear-hazmat-suits-pick-Chinese-takeaway-western-Sydney.html }
A video of men collecting Chinese food in hazmat suits has sparked outrage online.  The Tik Tok video, posted to the Auburn 2144 Facebook page, shows three young men in a car ordering takeaway food from a Chinese restaurant in western Sydney. One, who gives his name as 'Leviathan', orders satay chicken from Golden King in Green Valley, near Liverpool. Two of the men walk into the restaurant in hooded hazmat suits complete with rubber gloves, face masks, eye goggles and shoes. The pair walk calmly to the counter. 'Pick up for Leviathan,' one says. Without batting an eyelid, the waitress hands them their order. The restaurant appears to be empty and there was no reaction to their costumes seen on the video. One of the men says 'It's corona time. It's corona time right now' before devouring the chicken satay.    The video sparked 221 comments, many of which were critical.   'So wrong!' Kim Williams said. 'How offensive silly boys utterly foolish behaviour, grow up. 'Your parents raised you better than that I'm sure they are good people don't embarrass them,' another person wrote.  'Stupid morons, how is this even funny,' another person wrote.   As of Friday morning there were 76,188 confirmed cases of COVID-19 worldwide of which 11,774 were in a serious condition, and 2245 had died, according to BNO News which has been tracking the cases since the beginning of the outbreak. Most of the cases (74,988) are on mainland China although the number of cases in other jurisdictions has risen to 1200 of which 634 were on the Diamond Princess cruise ship, 106 were in South Korea, 94 in Japan and 85 in Singapore, BNO News reported. The World Health Organisation assessed the global risk level for COVID-19 outbreaks as 'high' on Wednesday and said it now has a case fatality rate of 2.3 per cent.  
