{ By David Lawrance For Dailymail.com and Olivia Wheeler For Mailonline   Published:  02:45, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8027401/Elon-Musks-pregnant-girlfriend-Grimes-flaunts-growing-baby-bump-new-Instagram-Stories.html }
Grimes has given fans another look at her baby bump in new Instagram Stories. The 31-year-old singer-songwriter took to her social media on Thursday to post video of herself rubbing her belly and kissing her dog. In the heavily-filtered video, the girlfriend of billionaire Elon Musk wore a sweatshirt from her own range of merchandise.  In the videos, the Tabula Rasa star was surrounded by digital butterflies and she rubbed her expanding baby bump.  Around her neck dangled several necklaces.  The post comes as Grimes posed as her 'maternity leave' and alter-ego avatar, WarNymph, for The Face Magazine Issue 3. The pregnant Oblivion hitmaker, whose real name is Claire Boucher, launched her avatar on social media in January in a bid to 'separate her digital persona from her humanity'.  An avatar is a figure which is used to represent someone predominantly online, it can also be used for video games and in publications.  In her interview with the magazine, Grimes explained that WarNymph is her 'digital self' and that having an avatar allows her to work both during and after her pregnancy. The Flesh Without Blood hitmaker, who was promoting her new album Miss Anthropocene, said: 'WarNymph is my digital avatar, aka my digital self. Everyone is living two lives: their digital life and their offline life.  'I want to untether my two lives from each other for mental-health purposes, haha. And also, for fun.' She added: 'I'm also pregnant. Having a digital body allows me to keep working throughout the later stages of my pregnancy, and after I have my baby, so I can spend more time with them.' Grimes went on to discuss her pregnancy and even teased some of the baby names she is thinking of her calling her unborn child. The singer said: 'Annoyingly, some of the memes about my naming ideas are on point [she sighed].'  The Canadian singer also revealed how she intends to raise her first child with billionaire Tesla boss, Elon Musk, 48.  Grimes admitted that she doesn't want their unborn child to be 'spoilt' and wants them to 'live in the woods' with her grandfather to stay humble.  She continued: 'I'll probably have to send them to live in the woods with my grandpa periodically so they aren't too spoiled.' Grimes also shared that she believe children needs to 'get into raving' and that she wishes she had discovered dance music at an early age. She said: 'Children need to get into raving, but I don't think I'll rave with my kid… I don't think kids and adults need to rave together. But I wish I had discovered dance music at an earlier age.' For her The Face Magazine cover, Grimes posed as her avatar WarNymph in several different Balenciaga designs. One look saw the figure in a gold metallic ruffled dress with a dramatic wing-like bow on the back. While a different ensemble saw her avatar in a long-sleeved and floor-length dress, it was used twice once in blue and again in red. It comes after Grimes recently claimed that pregnancy has taken its toll on her skin. The 31-year-old singer, who is expecting her first child with Elon - who she has been dating since 2018, said she has been suffering with 'super red' skin over the past few months as a result of her pregnancy. In a makeup and skin routine video for Vogue, she explained: 'I don't know if everyone has this but when I got knocked up my skin turned super red and is just constantly covered in … stuff.  'Doing makeup is way harder when you're pregnant for some reason.' And whilst Grimes - whose real name is Claire Boucher - isn't having the best of luck with her skin, she did credit pregnancy with making her hair look better than ever. In a video for Vogue, she added: 'I've had a lot of regrowth. I burned my hair off right before I got pregnant, but it's kind of been solving the situation.'  The Canadian indie singer has been in a relationship with tech tycoon Musk, 48, since May 2018. The billionaire venture capitalist is already a father to five sons from his marriage to first wife author Justine Wilson. Recently, the 'Oblivion' hitmaker said she was 'woefully ill prepared' for pregnancy, as she explained she has been dealing with some complications. She wrote on social media: 'Fake or real? Haha. Wow I'm starting to feel bad haha... how do y'all cope with working and having a baby?? I'm sorry I haven't been promoting my album properly or on social media more.  'This whole thing has been a bit of an ordeal. Had some complications early on, a decent second trimester but starting to hurt everywhere at 25 wksz. What were yalls experience w this stuff like?  'I feel like I was woefully ill prepared cuz I dunno if pregnancy is as visible or discussed as it should be. I just didn't rly understand what I was getting into (sic)'. Grimes also admitted that pregnancy has been affecting her work. She explained: 'It's been good too, but it makes working a lot harder. Good at writing and having lots of wild ideas tho, but anything physical is hard. Im also way more emo and less capable of bravery in the face of haters online and stuff haha.  'But my albums out in a sec so I prob need to get back on here. Don't mind my emo energy, but curious what other ppls experience was like. I didn't even google it, I was just like sure y not hahaha smh (sic).' While she alluded to being with child in previous posts showing her changing figure, she has since confirmed the baby joy. The singer shared a nude photo toward the beginning of the year that showed a fetus Photoshopped on her stomach, which was initially posted to Instagram on 8 January.  Grimes' interview with The Face Magazine Issue 3 is available to read now.  
