online
{ By Jackson Barron For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:39, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8027209/Celeste-Barber-says-trying-51million-bushfire-funds-need-most.html }
Comedian Celeste barber has reassured donors to her $51million bushfire relief fund that she is trying to get the money out to the victims who need it most. The 37-year-old launched her NSW RFS bushfire fundraiser in January, with the goal of raising $30,000 after her family home was threatened in Eden on the NSW south coast. The campaign became the largest ever fundraiser in Facebook's history, finishing with more than $51million donated from more than 1.3million people. However, none of the money raised has been given to victims of the bushfire crisis due to legal issues regarding how the funds can be distributed. Ms Barber's fundraiser was initially aimed at supporting the NSW RFS, but once the incredible amount of money started rolling in, she decided to change the fundraiser to support other states affected by the bushfires.  'I’m going to make sure that Victoria gets some, that South Australia gets some, also families of people who have died in these fires, the wildlife,' Ms Barber said in an Instagram story in January. Legal issues have arose because the money was being donated to the NSW RFS Donations Trust account, who by law can't give the funds to other charities. The NSW RFS are able to use the funds to update equipment including trucks and face masks, but they legally can't give funds to volunteer firefighters or the victims. Ms Barber took to Instagram to give an update on her fundraiser and reassure her donors that she is 'not f***ing around.' 'My team have been in contact, chatting a lot with the RFS and stuff, about all the money that you guys so kindly donated,' she said. 'I just want you to know that we’re onto it. So much so that I think that, well I know that the f***ing Supreme Court might be throwing their backs into it a little bit to find out if we can distribute it. 'Because I’m all like, "Let’s give it to all these different places." Turns out, it’s not that easy, because there’s "laws" or something involved. 'So the RFS have it at the moment and are trying to find out if it is possible to distribute it around more. But we’re not f***ing around. Like, I just said the words "Supreme Court." Like, that’s how much we’re not f***ing around. We’re taking it really seriously.'  A spokesperson from the NSW Rural Fire Service told Daily Mail Australia they were working with Ms Barber to work their way around this road black and get the money out to desperate victims. 'The NSW Rural Fire Service is incredibly grateful for the efforts of Celeste Barber and her record-breaking online fundraising campaign,' the spokesperson said. 'The NSW RFS & Brigades Donations Trust has been working with Celeste’s team to identify options for how the funds can be distributed. 'What has become clear is that the issue is very complex and the options are limited. This is because there are a number of laws which limit how funds can be distributed. 'At this stage, it’s planned to seek the direction of the Supreme Court to seek some clarity on how the funds can be used. This is likely to take some time. 'Importantly, the NSW RFS and Celeste’s team want to make it clear – there is no stoush and everyone is working hard to find a solution.'  Ms Barber hosted the Fire Fight Australia 2020 fundraiser concert at ANZ Stadium in Sydney on Sunday. The event grossed more than $9million for bushfire relief funds and included big acts including Queen and Adam Lambert, Alice Cooper and 5 Seconds of Summer. The national death toll of Australia's 2019/2020 bushfire season was 33 as of Monday, February 3, with 25 confirmed deaths in New South Wales, three in South Australia and five in Victoria.  New South Wales:  Robert Lindsey, 77, and Gwen Hyde, 68, were found in their burned out Coongbar home near Casino on October 9th.  New South Wales: The body of 85-year-old George Nole was found in a burnt out car near his home in Wytaliba, near Glen Innes. Vivian Chaplain, a 69-year-old woman from Wytaliba, succumbed to her injuries in hospital after attempting in vain to save her home and animals from the blaze. The body of 63-year-old Julie Fletcher was pulled from a scorched building in Johns River, north of Taree.  Barry Parsons, 58, was found in a shed at Willawarrin, near Kempsey. Chris Savva, 64, died after his 4WD overturned near burnt-out South Arm bridge, near Nambucca Heads. A 59-year-old man was founded sheltered in a Yarrowitch water tank on November 7. He died of injuries on December 29.   Victoria:  David Moresi, 69, died after being involved in a traffic incident while working at the at the Gelantipy fire in East Gippsland on November 30.  New South Wales:    Firefighters Andrew O'Dwyer, 36, and Geoffrey Keaton, 32, died on December 19 after a tree fell on their truck while they were travelling through Buxton, south of Sydney. Samuel McPaul, 28, was battling a blaze in Jingellic, in Green Valley, about 70km east of Albury on the border of NSW and Victoria, on December 30 when a 'fire tornado' caused his 10-tonne firetruck to roll.  South Australia: The body of 69-year-old Ron Selth was found in his Charleston home, which was destroyed by the Cudlee Creek blaze on December 21.  New South Wales:  Dairy farmer Patrick Salway, 29, and his father Robert, 63, died trying to save their property in Cobargo, near Bega, on December 31.  A 70-year-old man, named by local media as Laurie Andrew, was found dead outside a home at Yatte Yattah, west of Lake Conjola. The body of a 70-year-old man was found in a burnt vehicle on a road off the Princes Highway at Yatte Yattah on the morning of New Year's Day. The body of a 62-year-old man was found in a vehicle on Wandra Road at Sussex Inlet about 11.30am on New Year's Day. A body, believed to be a 56-year-old man, found outside a home at Coolagolite, east of Cobargo on New Year's Day. An off-duty RFS firefighter, believed to be 72-year-old Colin Burns, was found near a car in Belowra after the New Year's Eve fires swept through.  Victoria:  Beloved great-grandfather Mick Roberts, 67, from Buchan, in East Gippsland, was found dead at his home on the morning of New Year's Day.  Fred Becker, 75, was the second person to die in Victoria. He suffered a heart attack while trying to defend his Maramingo Creek home. New South Wales: David Harrison, a 47-year-old man from Canberra, suffered a heart attack defending his friend's home near Batlow on Saturday, January 4.  A 71-year-old man was found on January 6. Police have been told the man was last sighted on December 31, 2019 and was moving equipment on his property in Nerrigundah. An 84-year-old man who stayed to defend his home in Cobargo, NSW, dies in hospital three weeks after fire hit. His pet dog Bella, who stayed by his side as fires raged, was also killed in the disaster. Three American firefighters are killed when Coulson Aviation C-130 Hercules water bomber Zeus crashed while fighting fires near Cooma on Thursday January 23. They have been named as Capt. Ian H. McBeth, 44, First Officer Paul Clyde Hudson and Flight Engineer Rick A. DeMorgan Jr, 43. On January 24, Michael Clark, 59, was found in a Bodalla home destroyed by bushfires near the NSW South Coast town of Moruya.  Victoria: Forest Fire Management firefighter Mat Kavanagh, 43, was killed Friday January 3 when he was involved in a two-car crash on the Goulburn Valley Highway. Bill Slade, a 60-year-old father of two from Wonthaggi was fighting fires with Parks Victoria at Omeo when he died on January 11. He has been remembered as one of the longest serving, most experienced and fittest firefighters.   South Australia:  Well-known outback pilot Dick Lang, 78, and his 43-year-old son, Adelaide surgeon Clayton Lang, died in the Kangaroo Island bushfire after their car was trapped by flames.   
