online
{ By Carly Bass For Mailonline   Published:  02:11, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8027029/Liam-Payne-cuts-casual-figure-touches-LAX.html }
He has been lying low of late after string of appearances with his girlfriend Maya Henry, while his sister expressed her concern for 'negativity' towards him on Twitter. But Liam Payne, 26, appeared in high spirits as he touched down in LAX Airport, Los Angeles on Thursday.  The former One Direction member kept it casual in a black jeans teamed with a blue stripped jacket. Liam opted for comfort with a pair of white trainers and completed his outfit with a sky blue T-shirt.  Prepping for the Californian sun, Liam hung a pair of sunglasses from his collar, and flashed a wide smile before navigating his way through the busy airport.   Liam's appearance comes after his concerned sister Ruth shared a moving message about kindness due to the 'negativity' her brother receives on Twitter.  Ruth admitted she worries about Liam's mental health and whether he is 'strong enough' to cope with the pressure of fame, encouraging people to think twice before writing hurtful comments online. She said:  'I dont use twitter alot anymore as this is the darkest place ive seen in the past in regards to comments about my brother and everyday it makes me worry if hes strong enough to take that much negativity in public daily, so it really is such a personal message #bekind. (sic)' Ruth's posts were all the more poignant in light of presenter Caroline Flack's tragic death at the weekend and the outpouring of public grief for the presenter, 40, who took her own life at her London flat on Saturday.   Liam, meanwhile, recently congratulated Harry on his chart success, whose second solo album Fine Line topped the US Billboard 200 charts in December. Comparatively, Liam's album, the long-awaited LP1 released on December 6, has peaked at number 17 in the UK and a bruising 111th place on the American charts. Liam thanked his fans for their unwavering support online, saying: 'Thanks to everyone that’s picked up the album so far... your support doesn’t go unnoticed.'   
