{ By Sean O'grady and Kelby Vera For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:55, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8027275/The-Jonas-Brothers-entertain-legions-fans-Amsterdam-show.html }
He has been making the most of their time in Amsterdam, enjoying a sing song with locals in a pub as his wife Sophie Turner is rumoured to be expecting a child.  And Joe Jonas looked in good spirits as he joined brothers Nick and Kevin on stage at the Ziggo Dome in the Dutch capital for The Jonas Brothers' Happiness Begins Tour on Thursday. Joe, 30, sported a navy jacket along with a matching pair of trousers as he took to the stage, adding to his look with a crisp white T-shirt. Nick, 27, looked dapper as he opted for an all-black look for the band's Amsterdam gig, sporting a jacket with matching trousers. Kevin, 32, who played the guitar during the show, donned a grey houndstooth blazer and trousers which he wore with a black T-shirt. The Amsterdam show is the penultimate performance for the Happiness Begins Tour, with the final show taking place in Paris on Saturday.     While enjoying their time in the city, Joe and Sophie, 23, stopped by a local bar where they hung out with some of the locals.  The middle Mr. Jonas has been documenting his on-tour drinking adventures with posts called Cup Of Joe. Continuing his trans-European pub crawl in his new post, Joe and his 'favorite person' soaked up the local culture. Though most of the revelers in the background were holding pints, neither Joe nor Sophie appeared to be drinking, further fueling fans' baby rumors.  Whispers about the couple expecting first emerged last Wednesday via Just Jared.  'The couple is keeping things very hush hush but their friends and family are super excited for them,' a source told the site. Sophie is reportedly due this summer.   Another insider added: 'Sophie has decidedly been choosing outfits to wear on and off the carpet to accommodate her changing body.' According to sources, having children has always been in the cards for the couple. 'Having children and starting a family was part of Joe and Sophie’s plan,' an insider told Us Weekly. The baby news comes just over a year after the couple tied the knot, as they exchanged vows in Las Vegas in May. Their DJ pal Diplo live-streamed the ceremony - without their permission - and showed the pair exchanging vows while an Elvis Presley impersonator officiated.  Joe later admitted his own parents found out about his Vegas wedding on the internet. He said at the time: 'They did find out online. Well, in my mind, you know, that was the legal portion of the marriage. 'So I was thinking, like, ''Look, this is not the most important day.'' There's an important day, I mean, I'll keep private, but ahead of us. So we were, like, this is just whoever's in town.'  The pair married again in front of family and friends at an intimate ceremony at Le Chateau de Tourreau in July in Sarrians, France.  
