{ By Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:47, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8027203/Will-Ferrell-regrets-eating-spicy-wings-discusses-working-Downhill-Julia-Louis-Dreyfus.html }
With his new movie Downhill in theaters, Will Ferrell discussed his film over some of the spiciest hot wings imaginable on the latest episode of Hot Ones. The 52-year-old actor was supposed to be joined by his Downhill co-star Julia Louis-Dreyfus, but she was feeling 'under the weather,' so host Sean Owens only had Ferrell to tackle the 10 spicy wings with. The actor opened up about some of the logistical challenges of shooting the film in Austria, with limited sunlight, though he quickly started to regret going on the show. 'We're shooting most of the movie outdoors, you lose the light right around 3:30, 4 o'clock in the afternoon, shooting in the winter time, so a lot of 4:30, 5 AM wake-up calls,' he said. Downhill is an English-language remake of the 2014 Swedish film Force Majeure, following a couple who re-evaluate their lives after barely escaping an avalanche during their French Alps vacation. Ferrell revealed that the humor in this new movie, 'comes from the fact that we play very relatable characters.' 'You kind of, at the end of the movie, in a beautiful way, don't really know what's gonna happen with them, which I think we find a lot of times in movies,' he added. Ferrell started to regret coming on the show, stating that the second hot wing of 10 - with increasingly hot sauces on each - was, 'already doing a number on me.'  He also reminisced about discovering legendary Chicago Cubs broadcaster Harry Caray's TV broadcasts, and marveling at what he'd say on the air. 'I just couldn't believe the stuff he would say in the middle of a game,' Ferrell said. 'I remember him getting really mad at the Cubs pitcher at the time, Heathcliff Slocumb,' before giving an impression of Caray saying, 'If he's throwing hard I'm a Chinaman.' 'I was like, "Did he just say Chinaman on a live broadcast?" I kept watching him and studying him and down the road I decided to impersonate him.' Ferrell cut his teeth in comedy through the improv theaters like The Groundlings, and when asked if that is still the best way to make a splash in comedy, or through the Internet, the actor thought it was, 'a combination of both.' 'Now you have this whole other universe, whole other outlet to record sketches and put it online and have people discover it that way,' he said. He added, though, 'at the same time, there's no substitute for honing your craft in front of a live audience.'  After his stint at the Groundlings, Ferrell joined Saturday Night Live in 1995 
