{ By Carina Stathis and Claudia Poposki For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:37, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8026961/Talented-mum-turns-two-1-50-tea-towels-Kmart-stylish-dress-little-girl.html }
An Australian mum has shared how she used her sewing skills to transform two Kmart tea towels into a gorgeous dress for her young daughter. Rather than purchasing expensive clothing, the woman spent just $3 on the two kitchen products and posted her savvy creation online to a Facebook group. The floral dress is the perfect length for the young child, and the woman feathered the short sleeves to add a stylish look.   'I finally tried the tea towel hack! This is a size two dress and I used two tea towels,' the woman said in the caption. 'Because so many people are asking, the pattern is from Tadah Patterns, and is called the All Seasons Dress and Top.' The post has since received more than 5,000 likes and hundreds of comments from impressed Kmart customers who praised the mum for her creativity.  Some people mentioned the clever idea is better and more convenient than buying material from a fabric store.    'I love that tea towel. The dress looks amazing. Now if they could just make it in tablecloths we could make the same dresses for ourselves,' one woman commented. 'Wow that's so cute. I even used cotton curtain material when my daughter was a toddler. Found some pretty ones at the op shops and make sweet dresses for my baby gal,' another added. * Reupholstered chairs and stools * Statement art  * Bags and clothing  * Cushion covers * Table runners  * Bed runners * Pillow covers  Others were so impressed at the woman's sewing abilities it inspired some to learn how to sew.  This isn't the first time shoppers have made their own creations with Kmart tea towels, with others having previously made cushions, pillow cases and coin purses. Last year another Western Australian woman shared on Facebook how she crafted pillow cases and a bed runner made from five Kmart tea towels. 'Surprising what five $3 tea towels can do for a bedroom makeover! Next - recovering my bedside lamps and adding a tea towel to a wall canvas,' she said.  Another crafty woman used a palm tree print tea towel to recover a stool, and also used the same print in place of glass in an old dresser. A third woman made a table runner as well as a set of cushions using a banana leaf print. 'The print really suits the outdoors so I decided to make a table runner and a couple of cushions,' she wrote. 'Cushions are made from just one tea towel and the runner is made from two.' Those with a penchant for fashion used tea towels to create bags and dresses. 'Bringing a little floral fashion into 2019,' one eagerly wrote online, alongside photos of a handbag, coin purse and decorated sandals.  'Only a small section was used to make the coin purse and to decorate my $3 Kmart sandals. Definitely fashion on a budget,' she added.     'Could easily have made two from the one tea towel,' the mother wrote.    'I wish I knew how to sew,' a fellow Facebook user commented on the photograph.  'You could make a pillowcase dress with them as well,' one also wrote. 
