{ By Eliza Mcphee and Lauren Ferri For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:25, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8027261/Colette-announces-close-QUARTER-stores-weeks.html }
Colette by Colette Hayman will close a quarter of all its stores within weeks, it was announced on Friday.  The popular handbag retailer was put into administration earlier this month. Administrators have now confirmed 33 of its Australian and New Zealand stores will shut over the next three weeks. The popular handbag and accessory chain was put into the hands of Vaughan Strawbridge, Sam Marsden and Jason Tracy following its administration.  'Colette By Colette Hayman has, unfortunately, been impacted by the current weak retail environment, as have many others,' Mr Strawbridge said at the time. 'Our focus is on continuing to trade the business while we seek either a recapitalisation of the Group or a sale of the business.' Stores in Sydney suburbs such as Warriewood, Hornsby, Chatswood, Rhodes, Birkenhead and Kotara in Newcastle are all expected to shut its doors within the next few weeks. Administrators confirmed 105 stores were put into the portfolio to be offered for sale.   Mr Strawbridge said affected staff would be redeployed. 'All staff impacted are expected to receive all their wages and entitlements in full,' he said in a statement.  'This is never easy and we have regrettably had to make the decision to close 33 stores. We are working closely with the Colette management team to effect the closures quickly while seeking to redeploy staff impacted.'  In Queensland, several stores will close including ones in Noosa, Rockhampton, Mackay and Logan.   A store in Adelaide's Rundle Mall will shut its doors along with two in New Zealand, five in Western Australia and one in the ACT.  Colette was founded by Colette Hayman in 2010 and within years the company had around 180 stores across Australia, New Zealand, the UK and South Africa.   Ms Hayman, a South African mother-of-two, lives and works out of Sydney's northern beaches with her husband Mark. Colette by Colette Hayman had yearly sales of more than $140million, selling more than three million handbags a year, according to the Sydney Morning Herald. The brand quickly became a budget handbag and accessories store, renowned for its affordable handbags, clutches, jewellery and accessories. It was popular among teenagers and young women, with the brand sharing a photo of Australian DJ Tigerlily wearing its jewellery just last week. The brand has become the latest victim of the retail apocalypse that has seen dozens of chains collapse.  2016: Dick Smith, Masters hardware, Payless Shoes 2017: Topshop Australia 2018: Avon, Espirit, Toys 'R' Us, Max Brenner, Roger David 2019: Ed Harry, Diana Ferrari, Napoleon Perdis, Ziera, Bardot, Harris Scarfe 2020: EB Games, Colette by Colette Hayman  Harris Scarfe, Bardot, Roger David, EB Games and Napoleon Perdis all failed in the last year. Experts have claimed consumers are now turning to online shopping over bricks and mortar stores.    Australian retail growth is at its worst level since the early 1990s recession and international giants like Amazon and Aldi threaten to make life even more difficult for local brands.   Harris Scarfe, founded in 1849, took consumers by surprise when it entered administration in December and is now about to close at least 21 stores.  Days later the country's sixth-largest wine company McWilliam's Wine, which has been around for 140 years, announced it had appointed voluntary administrators.  Popular video game chain EB Games was next, with the business announcing the closure of 19 stores across Australia in early January. Major fashion chain Bardot also announced plans to close 58 stores nationwide before March.    
