{ By Tracy Wright For Dailymail.com   Published:  00:39, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8027155/Jenna-Dewans-engagement-ring-Steve-Kazee-designed-Nikki-Reed-echo-cosmos.html }
She recently became an engaged woman and is soon expecting her second child.  And Jenna Dewan's engagement ring was designed by Steve Kazee and Nikki Reed's company BaYou With Love to 'echo the cosmos.' The Flirty Dancing star's fiance — with whom she is expecting a baby — revealed just a small glimpse into the process of designing her exquisite engagement ring. Kazee enlisted the help of actress Nikki Reed and her sustainable jewelry brand BaYou With Love to create something special for his lady love.  Steve explained on his Instagram Story: 'When I first started to look at engagement rings for Jenna, I knew I wanted something unique. It had to be unique. It had to be representative of who Jenna is. It had to be as beautiful as her. '[When I turned to Nikki, I] instantly knew that I had found the right person to help create the ring! Nikki came in and talked to me about what was important to me and shared her immense knowledge of jewelry design and sustainability in the process.'  The Tony Award-winner also spoke about the special meaning behind the ring, which was designed with the 'universe' and the 'Pleiades constellation' in mind, as it holds 'special meaning' for the couple.  Steve said: '[The design is] based around my desire to have it echo the cosmos.  'The solitaire is representative of our oneness in the universe surrounded by stars. The diamonds laid into the band are representative of the Pleiades constellation which holds special meaning for Jenna and I.'  Meanwhile, Twilight star Nikki recently revealed her involvement with the process when she congratulated the couple on their happy news.  Taking to her Instagram Story, Nikki said: 'An honor to be a very small part of this special moment. I love you both, and all I can say is your love is pure magic. 'I might be biased but that ring is gorgeoussssss! Steve, making this with you was such a beautiful experience. Thank you for loving Jenna the way you do.'  Ira Weissman with The Diamond Pro estimated the 4-5carat diamond to cost $150,000- $200,000 depending on quality.    
