online
{ By Kylie Walters For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:41, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8026669/Married-Sights-Michaels-cake-mocked-online-Stacey-accused-wanting-fame.html }
Married At First Sight's Stacey Hampton, 26, and Michael Goonan, 28, have been mocked mercilessly online for only being on the show for Instagram fame. A MAFS parody page teased the couple after the company director presented his blonde beauty bride with a 'sorry' cake for getting drunk and being rude to her during Monday night's show. The image of the cake was altered on the MAFSfunny page to imply the couple were only staying on the show to only pursue Instagram fame, and was captioned 'At least he's honest'. 'I'm sorry I f**ked up again but pls (sic) don't end this before we get our blue ticks on Insta babe,' the altered cake read, along with a blue tick, which is the symbol social media platforms give to 'verified' accounts.  Fans were quick to jump onboard with mocking the couple with one commenting, '...& free veneers'. 'So true dat,' commented another woman. Stacey proved she has a great sense of humour by liking and also commenting on the post. 'Omg haha,' she wrote, with the comment attracting 44 likes. Michael gave Stacey the cake after she she kicked him out of their apartment when he came home drunk. 'So last night Michael went out. He came home and he was drunk, being obnoxious, rude and disrespectful towards me,' she said, looking visibly upset. 'He said he was happy to leave [the experiment and marriage] and never see me again. So, I kicked him out. 'What makes it worse is that I've been through this before. The same thing happened to us on the honeymoon. That's it, he's done in my eyes.' On Tuesday's episode, Michael tried to make up for his behaviour by presenting a red velvet cake to Stacey to apologise. The real cake read 'I'm sorry Stacey, please still be my wifey,' along with a love heart in chocolate icing. 'Actions do speak a lot louder than words so even though I apologised, I want you to know my sincerity and because it's written in a cake, it's true,' the 'groom' said as he handed the cake over. Stacey doesn't look impressed with the offering, telling him that 'Red velvet is not my favourite cake', before mocking him for buying it when Michael claimed he had baked it. 'You don't know me... at all,' she added. It is believed that Michael and Stacey have since gone their separate ways since filming began.        
