online
{ By Chloe-lee Longhetti and Joshua Fox and Jo Scrimshire For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:21, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8026535/The-Married-Sight-cast-200-tattoos-like-best.html }
They're all trying to find love on Married At First Sight. And despite the relationship experts making some questionable pairings, it seems the entire cast share one thing in common: a passion for tattoos. Their total number of tattoos combined is believed to exceed 200, if arm and leg sleeves are considered a collection of individual tattoos rather than singular pieces. From full-body designs to elaborate inkings and an unintentionally rude acronym, Daily Mail Australia takes a closer look at the stars' extensive body art. Scroll down for video  ELIZABETH SOBINOFF  Elizabeth Sobinoff is well known for her love of tattoos and added to her already-impressive collection in January. The jewellery store manager, who rose to fame on MAFS last year before returning for another season, debuted a new artwork on her torso and back.  Posing in jeans with her top pulled up, she proudly showed off the tattoo on Instagram. The design, featuring a stack of books with a spider crawling over them, was apparently inspired by 'children's books'.  'When I was a young girl, I used to love going to the library and flicking though the children's books and seeing the illustrations,' she wrote. She revealed that two books in particular had inspired the tattoo: Possum Magic by Mem Fox, and The Animals of Farthing Wood by Colin Dann. She got her first tattoo - a black cat - in 2018, and has since added to her collection with a raccoon on her buttocks, and a large design on her back of a squirrel, fox, rabbit and tiger. According to Elizabeth, each animal 'has a specific spiritual meaning' to her. She also recently added a kookaburra because 'there is nothing better then waking up to the sound of a kookaburra in the morning'. Despite being heavily tattooed, Elizabeth wants to keep her arms and upper back clear, and also won't be having any tattoos below the knee.  TASH HERZ  Tash Herz is known for her extensive body of work, and has tattoos including a David Bowie portrait and a vampire.  The Adelaide-based bartender also has an arm sleeve and various other tattoos on her legs, thighs and hands.   She has previously said that her tattoos 'fool people' into thinking she is a party girl when she's actually looking for true love. 'I would love for someone to see through that,' she said. HAYLEY VERNON and DAVID CANNON Hayley Vernon has a large tattoo collection believed to be worth more than $10,000. The 32-year-old finance broker has an intricate arm sleeve and a large leg tattoo, which starts on her thigh and finishes at her ankle. Just last month, Hayley added to her leg tattoo while on holiday in Bali, Indonesia. Hayley's 'husband', David Cannon, is similarly tattooed and has smaller designs on his hands, including a finger tattoo which says 'showtime'. The 31-year-old truck driver also has a pair of boxing gloves on one knuckle, a tribute to his former career as a fighter.  Furthermore, he has a tribal pattern on his shoulder, and tattoos on his chest and torso of a woman and a dog.   JOSH PIHLAK and CATHY EVANS Josh Pihlak has tribal markings across his arms and shoulders, as well as extensive body art on his legs.  One leg tattoo consists of a sailing ship with a wreath around it.  The 28-year-old industrial operator shares his love of tattoos with 'wife' Cathy Evans, who has the acronym 'LMB' inked on her arm. Earlier this month, fans confused her arm tattoo for an abbreviation of a sexual act.  Several viewers assumed that it stood for 'lick my balls', which was a popular online acronym in the mid-2000s according to Urban Dictionary. But it's actually a tribute to her three brothers: Logan, Marko and Bradley.  NATASHA SPENCER  Natasha Spencer has a large sugar skull (or calavera) on her left thigh.  Underneath the skull is a quote by Andy Warhol that reads: 'The idea is not to live forever, it is to create something that will.'  She also has smaller tattoos on her ribs, including a flock of birds.  STACEY HAMPTON  Stacey Hampton has a large tattoo which goes all the way down from her stomach to her thighs.  The intricate geometric design is a tribute to her late brother, who died on the day she was due to give birth to her first child.  The tattoo would have required hours of patience while being inked to her body.  It is unclear if the 26-year-old single mother had it done before or after her second pregnancy. Stacey rarely shows the tattoo off in public because 'it's so personal to her', but the design is usually visible when she wears crop tops. Meanwhile, fellow bride Connie Crayden has an elaborate blue peacock tattooed on her arm, as well as an artwork on her right thigh. 
