{ By Kristy Johnson For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  22:12, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8026461/Madeleine-West-dating-splitting-Shannon-Bennett.html }
Madeleine West is back on the dating scene following her split from celebrity chef Shannon Bennett in 2018 after 13 years together. However, the 39-year-old actress revealed in her 9Honey column on Friday that she has already been 'ghosted' by a male suitor. 'Ghosting' is an online dating term for when someone suddenly disappears from your life after a few dates without any explanation.   Madeleine explained how she had met an 'associate' for dinner, which led to the 'occasional delicate touch on hand, wrist, thigh'. There was even a kiss at the end of the night, before the pair parted ways. But Madeleine revealed that she hasn't heard from the man since their first date.  'I think I've been ghosted,' she wrote. 'Now I'm feeling confused, a bit insecure, a lot overwhelmed, even more underwhelmed.'  Despite the rejection, Madeleine isn't giving up hope and has downloaded 'celebrity dating app' Raya. It's possible she was encouraged to do so by her Playing for Keeps co-star Olympia Valance, who met her boyfriend, AFL star Thomas Bellchambers, on the exclusive platform last year. Madeleine split from her long-term partner, Shannon Bennett, in 2018.    In October last year, she said that she was unlikely to ever get back with the 44-year-old MasterChef guest judge. 'No. You know what? I'm a big believer that everything in life has a season. We change. We evolve,' she told The Kyle and Jackie O Show. 'The whole notion of being bound for life is not necessarily realistic. At some point we go, "Well I have certain needs I want to have met and you've got certain needs and if the two don't combine and cross in the middle, why fight it and be miserable?" 'I don't think that's fair to the children either to see two parents that are constantly across purposes.' Madeleine dated Shannon from 2004 until 2018, and they share six children together: Phoenix, Hendrix, Xascha, Xanthe, Xalia and Margaux.  
