{ By Rory Tingle For Mailonline   Published:  09:09, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8041293/Yorkshire-Tea-urges-people-try-kind-anti-Tory-troll-backlash.html }
Yorkshire Tea has urged people to 'be kind' after it faced a furious backlash online - when Chancellor Rishi Sunak posed with a bag of the firm's teabags ahead of the budget. The firm came under fire from left-wing Twitter trolls after Mr Sunak posted an image of himself with a 1,040-bag pack of teabags on Friday afternoon with the comment, 'Nothing like a good Yorkshire brew'. It prompted a series of angry messages from Twitter users saying they were going to boycott the brand - simply because someone they did not like was drinking it. One user posted: 'Well that's the kiss of f*****g death to that brand now. @YorkshireTea is that okay with you?' Another replied: 'You can tell a lot about a company by the people that endorse it. Parasitic hedge funds.' On Friday Mr Sunak, MP for Richmond in Yorkshire, tweeted: 'Quick Budget prep break making tea for the team. Nothing like a good Yorkshire brew.' It led to messages such as: 'Why are you promoting this fool - no longer buying your products', and 'Never buying Yorkshire Tea again'. Another roll wrote: 'You can tell a lot about a company by the people that endorse it. Parasitic hedge funds.' One someone else said: 'I can't wait for 500,000 Labour Party members to boycott Yorkshire Tea'. In a message yesterday, the Yorkshire Tea press office pointed out that Jeremy Corbyn had also posed with the tea bags in 2017. The Harrogate-based company revealed it has also dealt with angry phone calls. A series of tweets on the company's Twitter account said: 'So it's been a rough weekend. On Friday, the Chancellor shared a photo of our tea. Politicians do that sometimes (Jeremy Corbyn did it in 2017). 'We weren't asked or involved - and we said so the same day. Lots of people got angry with us all the same. 'We've spent the last three days answering furious accusations and boycott calls. For some, our tea just being drunk by someone they don't like means it's forever tainted, and they've made sure we know it. 'It's been pretty shocking to see the determination some have had to drag us into a political mudfight. But it's been lovely to see others speak up for us - we're so grateful to everyone who's done that in a civil way (and gutted to see some use it as a reason for more nastiness).' The account added: 'Speaking directly now, as the person who's been answering these tweets, I know it could have been much worse. It's easier to be on the receiving end of this as a brand than as an individual. There's more emotional distance and I've had a team to support me when it got a bit much. 'But for anyone about to vent their rage online, even to a company - please remember there's a human on the other end of it, and try to be kind.'  In 2017, Labour leader Mr Corbyn posed with a large bag of Yorkshire Tea, along with the caption: 'Well that's tea for the rest of the day sorted.' He also said that if he got into Number 10, he would host a meeting with Donald Trump at which he would offer him Yorkshire Tea. Dehenna Davison, the Tory MP for Bishop Auckland in County Durham, tweeted: 'This is mad! I absolutely love Yorkshire Tea. Not because I'm a Tory, but because I'm a human with taste buds. People need to calm down!'  
