online
{ By James Wood For Mailonline   Published:  08:49, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8041283/Well-educated-loner-imported-3ft-child-like-sex-doll-spared-jail.html }
A well-educated 'loner' who imported a child-like silicone sex doll, dressed it in underwear and used it to satisfy his sexual desires has been spared jail.  Laurence Tomlinson, 30, from Middlesbrough, was found with the 3ft doll - described as 'life-like' - on December 4, 2018 after police received a tip-off.   Teesside Crown Court heard the doll had the characteristics of a child's body of around the age of three and was kept in a cardboard box under his bed. Tomlinson, who admitted the doll was for his own 'sexual gratification', was also found to have indecent and prohibited images of children on his electronic devices. He had the doll shipped from Hong Kong after initially enquiring with an online company if purchasing the doll was illegal, in August 2018. Judge Stephen Ashurst said it was not illegal to possess the doll but a criminal offence had been committed by importing it into the UK. Tomlinson was aware of shipping methods which was proven through a string of emails. When officers attended his home, Tomlinson claimed he 'didn't know anything about it', according to prosecutor Rachel Masters. But officers found the doll in his bedroom, in a cardboard box, along with a sex toy. Indecent images were also found on Tomlinson's electronic devices and he had searched for indecent images of children on the internet. Early last year it was revealed that a total of 230 suspected child sex dolls – usually purchased online – have been seized by the UK Border Force and referred to police, co-ordinated by the National Crime Agency, since September 2016.  This has led children’s charities and the NCA to call for tough criminal enforcement against the obscene objects, which are manufactured in a way that enables sex acts to be performed on them. It is not considered illegal to possess a doll but people can face charges for importing them into the country.  The CPS has published specific legal guidance on Childlike Sex Dolls: Tomlinson pleaded guilty to five charges including importing goods, possessing indecent images of children and prohibited images of children. Andrew Turton, mitigating, described his client as a well educated young man, with a masters degree. He also added that Tomlinson is registered as disabled, due to curvature of the spine, and also suffers with anxiety, depression and suspected autistic traits. 'A spell in prison would be devastating,' he added.   Prior to sentencing, Judge Ashurst referred to the case of Crewe man Andrew Dobson in 2017 who imported a child-like sex doll - which police said was the first case of its kind in the UK. He described Tomlinson as a 'loner' who has 'no social life' with much of his life taken up online. Judge Ashurst added that none of the indecent or prohibited images were moving images or video clips. He also said that there is no evidence of the images being shared or distributed. He said: 'You have acknowledged a sexual interest in children of between six and eight years. 'But there is no evidence you have sought out contact with real children.' He sentenced Tomlinson to a total 14 months imprisonment, suspended for two years. He was given eight months sentence for the prohibited and indecent images and six month consecutive sentence for the importation of the child sex doll. Judge Ashurst ordered Tomlinson to complete 35 rehabilitation activity requirement days and made him subject to a sexual harm prevention order for 10 years. 
