{ By Bridie Pearson-jones For Mailonline   Published:  08:42, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/food/article-8017763/From-chickpea-turmeric-TEQUILA-inventive-recipes-try-Pancake-Day.html }
Crepes topped with lemon and sugar or a fluffy stack drizzled with maple syrup might be the go-to for many Brits this Pancake Day, but these recipes prove there are super simple ways to update your favourite recipes.  From gut-friendly pancakes to ones with an Asian twist, the recipes from British chefs, culinary experts and food brands will give you plenty of inspiration when it comes to cooking tonight.  It comes as a new study by Parkdean Resorts found Brits will make an estimated 157 million pancakes today, with lemon and sugar the preferred topping for 34 per cent of diners.   So, whether you fancy a vegan treat, a savoury pancake or a stack topped with indulgent Nutella, scroll down for our pick of the best Pancake Day recipes...  FOR VEGANS  Vegan Real Deal Crêpes by allplants  Makes 8 crepes  Ingredients Method  IF YOU LIKE A CLASSIC TOPPING  Fluffy buttermilk pancakes with Nutella, mango and raspberries by Nutella  Serves 8  Ingredients Method  FOR AN INDULGENT TREAT  Venezuelan Chocolate Pancakes with Chocolate Maple Syrup by Paul A Young  Serves four  Ingredients  For the pancakes  For the syrup  Method  FOR GLUTEN-FREE Gluten free Chickpea and Turmeric Pancakes with Crushed Peas, Roast Butternut Squash and Tahini Dressing by Yes Peas!  Nutritionist Lily Soutter, who is working with Princes canned fruits,  is offering consumers some sweet advice on how to have a guilt-free Pancake Day by making simple swaps.  Lily said: 'Nutritional studies reveal that we should cut back on added sugars to around 30g per day, these sugars are typically concentrated and are included in classic pancake toppings like golden syrup and caster sugar.'  Lily’s topping tips for a more nutritious pancake day: 1. Use canned fruit to top your pancakes. Opting for canned fruit with juice can add that delicious sweet flavour we crave to our pancakes whilst providing one of our five a day 2. Caramelise your fruit topping with a tablespoon of honey as a natural sugar alternative to golden syrup 3. Try flipping your choice of whipped cream or ice cream for a dollop of creamy Greek style yoghurt to add an indulgent tasty twist 4. Put down the chocolate spread and pick up the organic peanut butter for a low sugar option 5. Add cinnamon for a bust of flavour Serves 4  Ingredients For the pancakes For the dressing Method FOR A GUT-FRIENDLY MEAL Gut-friendly Paleo Vegan pancakes from Yalda, founder of online gut health community Eat Burn Sleep  Makes 8 pancakes Ingredients  Method   TO TRY THE LATEST FOOD TREND  Kefir pancakes by Lakeland  Ingredients Serve with crème fraiche, a drizzle of honey and fresh raspberries  Method FOR PANCAKES UNDER 200 CALORIES  Spiced Apple Pancakes by Cambridge Plan  Serves 2   Ingredients • 60g plain flour • A pinch of salt • 1 small free-range egg • 150ml skimmed milk • Spray oil • Ground cinnamon for dusting Spiced apple filling • 2 medium dessert apples, peeled, cored and sliced or cubed • 1 tbsp water • Artificial sweetener, to taste • A pinch of ground cinnamon • Grated zest and juice of ½ orange Method  FOR A SAVOURY MEAL  Mushroom bacon and egg pancake stack by the Mushroom bureau  For the pancakes To serve METHOD  WITH AN ASIAN TWIST Japanese Soufflé Pancakes  Japanese Soufflé Pancakes by Tom Daley Serves 2  Ingredients Method   1. In a medium bowl, whisk together the egg yolks, plain flour, baking powder, milk and vanilla extract until smooth. 2. In a medium bowl, whisk the egg whites until stiff using an electric hand whisk, then gradually add the sugar, whisking continuously, until the egg whites are stiff again. 3. Take a large spoonful of the egg whites and add to the yolk mixture. Fold gently to combine. Repeat with the remaining egg white mixture, in batches, folding it in gently and trying to knock out as little air as possible. 4. Heat a large, non-stick frying pan over low heat until hot. Place four crumpet rings (around 8cm in diameter, 3cm high) into the pan and oil the inside of the rings and base of the pan with a little oil. Fill the rings 3/4 full with batter, and cover the pan with a lid. Leave to cook for 6 minutes on one side, before carefully flipping over, using a spatula. Cook for a further 4 minutes on the other side. 5. Remove the pancakes from the rings and divide between 2 plates. Drizzle with maple syrup before serving. IF YOU WANT TO ADD A TOUCH OF BOOZE  Provided by Polo Bar  Ingredients Method 1. Beat the milk, water, eggs and sugar together in a bowl 2. Sieve in the flour and the baking powder 3. Beat the mixture with a whisk until thick and smooth 4. Place a little oil on the flat side of the griddle 5. Place one small ladle of pancake mix at a time on the griddle 6. When the mixture starts to bubble and is firm to touch, flip the pancake over and book for a further minute 7. Place on a tray and allow to cool  FOR GLUTEN-FREE WITH CHOCOLATE  Recipe by Fran Winberg, Head Chef at Linnaean, a cafe and beauty salon in London Ingredients Method   Marmite Peanut Butter pancakes Serves: 4-6   Ingredients Batter: Topping: Method  1. For the pancakes, mix the flour, baking powder and sugar in a mixing bowl. Whisk in the eggs, milk and butter until smooth. 2. Heat a little oil in a non-stick frying pan and drop a large tablespoon of batter to make a round approx. 7-8cm for each pancake. 3. Cook until underside is golden brown and small bubbles appear on the surface (1-2 mins). Turnover and cook until the other side is golden brown. 4. Repeat until remaining batter is used up. 5. Place blueberries in a small saucepan with a sprinkling of sugar and heat through until the juice run. Thicken with cornflour blended with a little water. Serve pancakes spread with Marmite Peanut Butter and topped with the fruit. Buttermilk Lotus Biscoff Pancakes recipe Serves 4 Ingredients Method 1. Whisk together flour, brown sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and cinnamon. Set aside. 2. In a large bowl whisk together the buttermilk, Lotus Biscoff Spread, oil, vanilla and eggs. 3. Slowly add dry ingredients to the wet and stir just to combine, being careful not to overmix. 4. Heat griddle or frying pan to medium heat. Pour batter onto pan. Flip pancakes when the tops are covered in air bubbles and edges are set. Cook the other side until set. Serve immediately and top with melted Lotus Biscoff Spread and anything else that takes your fancy! Cumin, Coriander & Chilli Pancakes Falafel  Recipe by Gosh! Moroccan Spiced Falafel  Serves 2  Ingredients  Method 1. Make the batter by mixing together the sieved gram flour, add water and mix well until a batter is formed. 2. Add the ground cumin, smoked paprika, sliced red onion, ground ginger, sliced red chillies, chopped coriander and a pinch of salt and pepper. Mix well and set aside. 3. Add 1tbsp of vegetable oil to a frying pan and heat for a few seconds and then add 2 tablespoons of batter and cook until the edges can be lifted with a palette knife and cook on both sides for 2-3 minutes. 4. Place the cooked pancakes on greaseproof paper and leave to rest for 2-3 minutes. 5. Place the baked Gosh! Moroccan Spiced Falafel on the pancake and serve with any of the suggestions and enjoy!   Tequila and Marshmallow Pancakes  Recipe provided by by Tequila Rose Ingredients  Method   
