online
{ By Rebecca Davison for MailOnline   Published:  08:11, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8041265/Keith-Lemon-reveals-heartbreak-fake-Caroline-Flack-charity-tribute-T-shirt.html }
Keith Lemon and his famous friends including Kym Marsh, Gaby Roslin and John Barrowman, have hit out after discovering people were selling fake versions of the comedian's Caroline Flack tribute T-shirt just a fortnight after she took her own life. The Celebrity Juice host, played by Leigh Francis, 46, who is also a talented artist, spoke of his dismay after seeing several sites online selling their own versions of his Be Kind print featuring Caroline’s face. Keith who is donating all profits from his own £25 printed tee shirts to The Samaritans charity revealed he had sold 11,280 of them.  He said: 'Just wanted to say Fanks so much to every one for buying the #bekind T-shirt 11,280 sold last count.  'Unfortunately a company called @teespring has stolen the design and has started selling them.  'That’s profits that would’ve gone to Samaritans. Hopefully they’ll do the right thing and hand over what profits they make to the Samaritans. Can’t trust anyone! Disappointing.' Kym Marsh said: 'Wow!!! That’s disgusting! What is wrong with people at all!?' John Barrowman added: 'not cool...' Gaby Roslin said: 'Disgusted! What you have done is truly kind and wonderful and anyone stealing is bloody awful!' Josie Gibson remarked: 'OMG...what world do we actually live in?' And Stacey Solomon added: 'I bought one and Teespring you are disgraceful.' Keith who starred alongside Caroline Flack in Bo Selecta in 2002 then posted on his Instagram a Thankyou after Teespring removed the bogus T-shirts from their website and urged them to donate any money made from their sale to the Samaritans. Rachell Smith, who took the original picture of Caroline which Keith drew his inspiration from,  told MailOnline: 'Keith is doing a lovely thing here.  'It is great that 100% of the profits are going to Samaritans. As for any other companies selling a version of this commercially please respectfully stop.’ Teespring later told MailOnline: 'Teespring allows creators to independently upload designs and employs software to filter the 100k+ uploads submitted daily. As a user-generated platform, all designs are created by individuals and not directly by Teespring.  'The company invests in both human and machine review technology to flag content which violates our policies. Teespring takes infringement very seriously.  'If we receive any complaint or allegation that a design or any resulting merchandise constitutes an unauthorized use of a third party’s rights, we will terminate the campaign accordingly.  'This includes charitable campaigns - we categorically do not support the promotion of or profiting from designs created for a charitable cause.  'This seller’s products have been removed, the account suspended and the seller has made no profit. Keith Lemon has thanked Teespring for the immediate removal, and as an act of support for the cause, Teespring has made a donation to The Samaritans.'  However Keith's relief was short lived as he noticed other sites had popped up online to sell their own fake tees. He filmed himself on video protesting about their cheek and said: 'Sorry more fakes Teeranas.com and @teechip stealing money that should be going to @samaritanscharity so disappointed.  'Not very nice. I give up! Probably gonna be more out there. www.kilclothes.com for official #bekind t-shirts where all profits go to #samaritans fanks.' Keith pointed out that Deviant art was also selling its own version of his tshirt and taking from the Samaritans charity. Keith had set up his own company KIL - Keith Ian Lemon to sell the designs.  If you have been affected by this story, you can call the Samaritans on 116 123 or visit www.samaritans.org 
