{ By Lara Keay For Mailonline   Published:  07:27, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8041073/Man-52-woman-21-die-car-falls-bridge-water-Chapel-St-Leonards-Lincolnshire.html }
A father and daughter died after their car crashed into a water-filled dyke near a primary school yesterday.  Daniel Plaice, 52, was pronounced dead at the scene after his white Fiat Punto went careering into the waterway at Tyler's Bridge in Chapel St Leonards, Lincolnshire at around 3.30pm. His daughter India, 21, who was also in the car, was rushed to hospital with serious injuries but died shortly after. Emergency services were scrambled to the scene on Monday afternoon around the time parents were collecting their children from the nearby Chapel St Leonards Primary School.  Ms Plaice worked at a local cafe, which remained closed today as a mark of respect.  In a Facebook post, her colleagues paid tribute to her saying: 'It is with the heaviest of hearts and with great sadness that we have lost one of our Seascape family. 'We and the team are devastated and will spend the day remembering he beautiful girl we have lost.  'India - one of the most beautiful souled people we had the pleasure of knowing. The life and soul of any party. 'Listening to your stories and funny thoughts at work had us all in laughter for hours. A day at work with you was never a dull moment. We will miss you greatly and you will forever be in our thoughts.' Ellie Nesbitt added: 'Oh my God. India Place. I'm in absolute shock. I can't believe it. 'We have so many amazing memories together. You'll always be one of the funniest girls I know. 'Life is so cruel. I'm just speechless. Thank you for being one of the best people I have ever met. I will miss you forever. Rest in paradise, baby girl.' Ellice Manning also paid tribute, writing: 'Living in a small town you come across a lot of people. Everyone knows everyone so when something awful happens it shakes everybody to the core and has a lasting impact. 'People you love and people you know – their lives will never be the same. 'Will absolutely be holding the people I love a bit tighter from now on. Absolutely heartbreaking news. 'Rest in peace India place and Dany. Thoughts are with family and friend at this devastating time.' Another friend of India's said: 'She was just loved by so many people. She was so bright and bubbly and the life and soul.'  Police have confirmed there was no one else in the car when it went off the road and into the water at 3.22pm yesterday.   Lincolnshire Police are appealing for witnesses to come forward and any dashcam footage but say it is too early to give a cause of the crash. One local resident described the corner where the accident occured as 'very dangerous' and said it was very blustery at the time of the accident. Local weather reports had predicted wind speeds of up to 45mph and ditches in the low lying area were full of recent flood water.  A Lincolnshire Police spokesman said: 'We can confirm that the people who died in this incident were 21-year-old India Plaice, and her father, Daniel, who was 52 years old. 'The family of India and Daniel ask media to respect their privacy at this very difficult time.' 
