online
{ By Kylie Stevens For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:56, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8040851/Institute-Public-Affairs-comms-director-slammed-criticising-Victorias-new-recycle-bins.html }
The communications director of a conservative public policy think tank has copped an online roasting after he rubbished plans to introduce a fourth recycling bin. The Institute of Public Affairs' Evan Mulholland took to Twitter to slam the Victorian government for adding a fourth recycling bin. The state's 79 councils will now be forced to provide different coloured bins for glass, household waste, food and garden organic products, and plastic, metal and paper recycling. 'This is a disgrace. Daniel Andrews (Victorian Premier) is conscripting every citizen to become an unpaid rubbish sorter,' he tweeted on Monday, prompting a flood of angry responses. 'Welcome to being an adult. Good luck. Seems challenging. Four colors and all,' one person wrote. Another added: My lord I can't even begin to imagine your angst when you find out about cutlery drawers.' Others slammed Mr Mulholland for not wanting to sort through his rubbish. 'It's a disgrace to be too lazy and stupid to take responsibility for your own rubbish. How a society deals with its refuse is the mark of a civilization. Clearly, the complainants are spoilt toddlers who can't help clean up their own mess,' one wrote. Another added: 'It's your rubbish! Don't consume rubbish if you don't want to be bothered dealing with it.' Some suggested Mr Mulholland hadn't travelled widely. 'The city of Paris had three household bins in the 1800s. This is not a new concept,' one commented. Similar systems were also in place in Germany and Ireland.  There was some support among the backlash. 'Instead of 2 trucks it's now 4 trucks to do the pickups. Very environmentally friendly... not,' one man commented. Mr Mulholland told Daily Mail Australia he wasn't too concerned about the online backlash. 'I don't pay too much attention to the criticism,' he said.  'Some people have too much time of their hands, but as a big supporter of freedom of speech I support the right of all people on Twitter to enjoy their free speech by having a say on this policy.' 'Obviously my comments caused a stir but I don't think they're any more controversial than what's also out there.' 'A lot of people are fired up about having another bin forced upon them.'  Mr Mulholland stands by his comments and has since written a newspaper opinion piece slamming the government initiative. 'The Victoria government is essentially using the public as unpaid rubbish sorters,' he told Daily Mail Australia. 'Many people don't have the room or space to store yet another bin.' 'It's an added cost to ratepayers and an added trucks in our neighbourhood every week. All the government is doing is slugging an essential service onto others.'  The new bins will be funded by a $129 million package to reform the state's kerbside recycling sector and comes months after just months after it was revealed only 12 per cent of the 103kg of plastic waste generated per person in Australia each year is recycled, mostly overseas.         
