online
{ By Mary Mrad For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:50, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8040633/Home-cooks-ten-ingredient-carbonara-slow-cooker-recipe-goes-viral.html }
An amateur chef has been praised online after sharing her 'amazing' recipe for slow-cooked carbonara pasta. The home cook made the Italian dish after placing ten simple ingredients in a slower cooker for five and a half hours.  The delicious recipe posted on the Slow Cooker Australia Facebook page has taken the internet by storm, with thousands trying the family-friendly dish for themselves. The amateur chef added chicken, onion, garlic, mushroom and stock cube in a slow cooker. The cook then added cream and stirred everything together before letting it cook on low. After four hours, they mixed in the pasta and let it cook on high for an additional one and a half hours.  'I jumped on the carbonara train but swapped the chicken out for chicken meatballs [it was] AMAZING', one person wrote. '[I'm] finally jumping on the chicken carbonara bandwagon and OMG it’s absolutely delicious (just needs some pepper) the only complaint I have is that my slow cooker is too small', another said. 'We did this last night and it was very nice - next time I may use light milk as I found it quite rich. We got 4 serving plus 4 large takeaway containers full', one explained. Another said: 'My SC isn’t big enough either so I didn’t put the pasta in. I cooked rice instead and served the chicken on that in bowls. It soaked up the sauce really well!'   'Great idea!', another person agreed. 'Yummy nice idea', one person added.  Ingredients: - 1kg chicken thighs, diced - 300g bacon - 400g mushrooms, sliced - 1 onion, diced - 3 teaspoons minced garlic - 2 cans of Condensed Cream of Chicken Soup - 2x 600ml thickened cream - 1 chicken stock cube - 1 packet 500g penne pasta   Method: 1. Add chicken, onion, bacon and garlic, mushrooms, stock cube into 6L slow cooker 2. Pour over soups 3. Add cream 4. Stir together 5. Cook on low for four hours 6. Put uncooked pasta in slow cooker 7. Gently combine 8. Cook on high for further one and a half hours in slower cooker and serve 
