{ By Sahar Mourad For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:05, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8040599/Legendary-rugby-league-coach-Don-Furner-dies-aged-87-long-battle-illness.html }
Inaugural Canberra Raiders coach Don Furner Sr has died at the age of 87, following a long battle with illness.    The former NRL coach, whose son Don Furner is current Raiders chief executive, died on Monday night.  Furner coached Canberra between 1982 and 1986 before guiding the Raiders to their first grand final with co-coach Wayne Bennett in 1987.  The club announced the devastating news on their website along with a heartwarming tribute.    'The Canberra Raiders would like to acknowledge the passing of inaugural Coach and Life Member Don Furner Senior (1932-2020), who passed away last night following a long battle with illness,' the statement read.  'Born in Condobolin, Don had an impressive rugby league career, playing for a range of clubs across both Queensland and New South Wales, including Souths (Toowoomba), Roma, Junee and Queanbeyan.  'He represented Queensland on eight occasions and toured England with the 1956-57 Kangaroos.' Furner Senior was forced to retire from playing the sport following an injury and went on to coach several teams before landing with the Raiders.  'Inevitably, Don became a fundamental part of the Raiders' push to enter the NSWRL, recruited by club patriarch Les McIntyre to add genuine credibility to the bid.  'He was subsequently named Head Coach when the club entered the competition in 1982.' He was Head Coach up until the end of 1986 then led the club to the grand final in 1987 while co-coaching with Wayne Bennett.  Raiders Chairman Dr Allan Hawke paid tribute to Furner and said he had excelled in multiple roles in rugby league. 'Don Furner Senior was a fundamental piece of the architecture in putting our club together,' Dr Hawke said. 'He distinguished himself as a player, an exemplary Coach and then as an administrator. 'Very few people would have the gift to excel in all the facets of rugby league, but Don Furner Senior did.' Ricky Stuart, current coach for the Raiders, also praised his mentor Furner Sr.  'He had such a massive impact on the club and was around the club for many, many years after he finished coaching here before he did get quite ill,' Stuart said. 'His ability to recruit and manage players in the early parts of the Raiders foundation years was years beyond himself. 'The amount of Sydney players he attracted to the club here early which was wonderful for the club because it's very hard to rebuild a club but it's even harder to start a club. 'There was some very quick success here under Don Furner. 'Winning that first grand final (in 1989) I still remember the joy they got out of what they had built and achieved and it was only seven years. 'It was five years to make a grand final and seven years to win a grand final. That's unheard of, that comes off the back of great management and great coaching. Furner coached Australia between 1986 and 1988 and his other son David coached the Raiders between 2009 and 2013. Stuart, who grew up with Furner Jr and has known the family almost all his life, revealed Furner Sr was the reason he played rugby union first. 'I remember being offered a contract here. Then Don told me to go and try and achieve the most you possibly could out of rugby union and then come back and talk to us and that was probably the greatest piece of advice that you could get as a young boy,' Stuart said. 'That was the man-management of Don; it wasn't about the Raiders it was about the person. He gave me great advice and I always cherished that. 'He was a fun man to be around and I was very fortunate to have spent a lot of my childhood days at the Furner household and with old Don there as a father, he was a character and loving father.'    
