online
{ By Demeter Stamell For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  03:56, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8040441/Married-Sight-CONFIRMS-new-season-2021-casting-begins.html }
While this year's season is only just hitting its stride, the people behind Married At First Sight are already looking for next year's participants. Channel Nine and producers Endemol Shine Australia posted a casting call to MAFS' official Instagram account on Tuesday. A hyperlink on the post leads potential brides and grooms to the application form.  Candidates must satisfy several requirements if they are to be considered for Nine's controversial social experiment. Applicants must be over the age of 25, and they must be Australian citizens or have held permanent residency for at least two years. They must also be 'single and genuinely looking for love'. This question is crucial, as producers urge applicants to 'be honest' when answering. Filming will take place towards the end of the year, and participants must be available from September until December, 'with a few days of filming in August'.    In addition to answering a few 'basic' and 'personal' questions, applicants are also required to submit photos and videos of themselves. According to 9Now, these questions will help the 'love experts' match couples. Personal questions include whether you would like to have children, and why you are searching for love. The casting call begins: 'Are you single and ready to meet the love of your life? Are you willing to put your heart on the line for a chance at finding your soulmate? 'Are you prepared to put your fate in the hands of our relationship experts to help you find your perfect match? 'If you answered yes to all of the above then we want to hear from you!'  According to the application form: Producers are looking for 'men and women of all ages and backgrounds who are genuinely committed to finding love'. It concludes: 'If you are genuine about finding love and can commit up to four months of your life to the experiment, then apply now!' Married At First Sight continues Tuesday at 7:30pm on Channel Nine  
