online
{ By Dr Michael Mosley for the Daily Mail   Published:  01:57, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/food/article-8040309/The-Fast-800-Health-Journal-Try-tasty-light-lunches.html }
With a busy day ahead, you need to know you will be rewarded with a tasty midday meal that will leave you feeling satisfied — but won’t scupper your weight-loss and health goals. Staying one step ahead of hunger is important because you’ll be more tempted to grab whatever is close at hand if you get to the point where you’re starving hungry. At home, you’re less likely to take time to stop, chop and prep a healthy recipe — and more likely to devour whatever you can find in the fridge.  If you’re out and about, make sure you leave the house armed with a nutritious, healthy lunch that will keep your energy levels constant throughout the afternoon (and help you to resist the biscuit tin later on). Luckily, there are plenty of waistline-friendly ways to enjoy a highly satisfying midday meal. Today — as we continue our exclusive series based on my new Fast 800 Health Journal to help you kick unhealthy eating habits, lose weight successfully and keep it off — we’re sharing a selection of my favourite dishes, all created by my wife, Dr Clare Bailey and recipe writer Justine Pattison. Soup is always a great option: cheap, filling and highly nutritious. You can make it in large quantities (it’s a great way of using up leftover vegetables) and keep the remainder in the fridge or freezer to take to work. I particularly love the intense flavours in our new Golden Roasted Vegetable Soup (see overleaf).  At 187 calories a serving, it’s perfect for a fast day; you could add a slice of sourdough bread, too, on non-fast days. (See yesterday’s pullout or go online at dailymail.co.uk for a guide to how my Fast 800 and New 5:2 diets work). Don’t forget leftover portions from supper, too, which provide an instant warm meal that you know has also been calculated to help you lose weight. A crunchy, fresh salad made from a variety of vegetables, some protein and topped with a small portion of delicious dressing can be both satisfying and refreshing, as well as portable. Remember to take the dressing in a separate pot to add just before you eat so that the salad stays crisp. You could try today’s tasty suggestion for Roast Chicory with Almonds, Apples and Blue Cheese. If you’re out and about, it’s easy to assemble your own salad in a container using tinned ingredients such as tuna and cannellini beans.  Taking a bit of extra time to plan your lunch in advance will also benefit your bank balance — it can be surprising how much lunch in a coffee shop or sandwich bar adds up over the course of a month. Wherever you are, try to take the time to sit down and appreciate your food properly, even if it’s only for 15 minutes. Eating slowly and mindfully not only helps you to take time out for yourself, but also helps you to enjoy your meal and feel fuller, too. These simple burgers are full of flavour. Prepare the whole batch and you’ll have some ready in the freezer for another day. Serve with a large mixed salad. Serves 4 Calories per serving 411   Preheat the oven to 200c/fan 180c/gas 6. Grease a baking tray with a little oil.  Heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a large non-stick frying pan and gently fry the chopped onion for 3-4 minutes, or until soft, stirring occasionally. Add the garlic and cook for a few seconds more, stirring. Place the almonds, egg yolk, chipotle or harissa paste, and roughly half the kidney beans and half the chickpeas in a food processor and add the fried onion and garlic.  Season well with sea salt and lots of ground black pepper. Blitz until well combined but not totally smooth. Add the remaining beans, the nuts and coriander and pulse until combined but with plenty of texture. Form the mixture into four burgers. Place the burgers on the prepared tray and brush with the remaining oil. Bake for 25 minutes, or until lightly browned and hot throughout.  Serve one burger per person, topped with sliced tomato, red onion, the remaining coriander and spoonfuls of yoghurt, with lime wedges on the side for squeezing over. Make ahead: You can freeze the cooked burgers wrapped tightly in foil for up to 3 months. Reheat on a lightly oiled baking tray at 200c/fan 180c/gas 6 from frozen for about 15 minutes, or until hot throughout. Cook's tip: If you can’t find chipotle or harissa, use 1 teaspoon each of ground cumin, ground coriander and hot smoked paprika  Fabulously filling, the flavour is intensified by roasting the veg. Serves 4 Calories per serving 187 Preheat the oven to 200c/fan 180c/gas 6. Place the vegetables in a large bowl and toss with the oil.  Scatter them over a large baking tray and cook in the oven for about 35 minutes, turning all the veg after 15 minutes, or until softened and lightly browned but not crisp. Transfer the vegetables to a large saucepan and add the stock. Blitz the soup with a stick blender until smooth. Add a further 600ml cold water and bring to a gentle simmer, stirring regularly.  Add a little extra water, if needed, to reach your preferred consistency. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Ladle the soup into warmed bowls and top with toasted, flaked almonds to serve.  Non-fast days: Add a slice of sourdough bread. Tips:   A handful of spaghetti gives texture to this delicious carbonara, without adding too many calories. Serve with a salad — use radicchio or red chicory for extra antioxidants. Serves 2 Calories per serving 461 Half-fill a large saucepan with water and bring to the boil. Add the spaghetti, return to the boil and cook for 10-12 minutes, or until tender.  Add the spiralized courgette and stir together quickly, then immediately strain through a colander, and run very briefly under a cold tap. Now place the pine nuts and lardons in a non-stick saucepan with half the oil and fry over a medium heat for 2-3 minutes, stirring until lightly browned.  Tip on to a plate and return the pan to the heat. Add the remaining oil and spinach and cook over a medium heat for 1-2 minutes, or until the spinach is soft, stirring.  Crumble two-thirds of the feta over, season and cook until the feta melts, making a creamy coating for the spinach. Return the spaghetti and courgetti to the saucepan, add the spinach and feta sauce and toss together well over a medium heat for 1-2 minutes. Divide between two bowls, crumble the remaining feta over and sprinkle with pancetta and pine nuts. Cook's Tip: A spiralizer will help to cut courgettes, and other vegetables, into long, thin, spaghetti-like strips. You could also peel the courgette into long strips using a potato peeler. Non-fast days: Increase the portion size. This crunchy salad is bursting with delicious ingredients that not only taste amazing but also give the microbiome in your gut a healthy boost. Serves 2 Calories per serving 363 For the dressing: Preheat the oven to 200c/fan 180c/gas 6. Lightly oil a small baking tray. Trim the chicory and cut in half from root to tip. Place cut-side down in the dish, drizzle over half the oil and bake for 15 minutes.  Turn the chicory over and scatter with the flaked almonds. Return to the oven for a further 8-10 minutes, or until the chicory is tender and the almonds are toasted and light brown. To make the blue cheese dressing, place the cheese and yoghurt in a bowl with 3 tablespoons of cold water and mash thoroughly with a fork until smooth. Divide the baked chicory and almonds between two plates. Toss the mixed leaves lightly along with the remaining oil and place them alongside the chicory with the sliced apple. Drizzle everything with the blue cheese dressing, squeeze over the lemon juice and serve immediately. Cook's Tip: You can use ½ a small, white cabbage instead of chicory. Cut it into quarters lengthways and roast. Continue with the rest of the recipe, as above. Ideal as a light meal, these low-carb cheesy fritters have a Mediterranean flavour. Serve with a large salad (add calories for dressing).  They are also good eaten cold, for delicious lunch on the go. Serves 2 Calories per serving 306 Preheat the oven to 220c/ fan 200c/gas 7. Line a baking tray with non-stick baking paper. Crack the eggs into a bowl and whisk until smooth. Add the cauliflower, oregano and 75g of the mozzarella. Season with salt and lots of ground black pepper. Spoon the cauliflower mixture on to the lined tray in six heaps, spacing them well apart. Press down slightly with a spatula, then bake for about 15 minutes, or until golden and crisp around the edges. Take the tray out of the oven, sprinkle with the remaining mozzarella and bake for a further 5 minutes, or until the cheese has melted and is beginning to bubble. Non-fast days: Add a generous portion of well-seasoned roasted vegetables, drizzled with plenty of olive oil. Tips: If you are planning to make an impromptu salad from tinned vegetables and salad leaves bought from a shop while you are out and about, don’t forget to pack a fork, an airtight container and a can opener. This way, you will not be tempted to buy fatty fast-food or takeaways that will end up piling on the pounds. Turkey makes a fantastic alternative to chicken here and iceberg lettuce makes a perfect wrap for this tasty Mexican-style filling. Serves 4 Calories per serving 195 Turn the lettuce over and cut around the stalk end with a small knife to separate the leaves. Carefully peel away at least eight leaves, wash and drain well. Place the leaves on a board or serving platter. Heat the oil in a large non-stick frying pan over a medium heat and fry the turkey, onion and peppers for 5-6 minutes, or until the turkey is cooked and the vegetables are softened and lightly browned, stirring regularly. Add the spices and cook for another 1-2 minutes, stirring. Season with sea salt and a good amount of freshly ground black pepper. Take the pan to the table or transfer to a warmed dish and sprinkle with lots of chopped coriander leaves. Pile the hot turkey into the lettuce, top with yoghurt and serve with lime wedges for squeezing over. Cook's tip: Try to avoid the temptation to use a fajita mix, as most contain added sugars. Non-fast days: Top the turkey with guacamole and grated cheese, too. Serve in a small good-quality wholemeal wrap, if you prefer. Our on-the-go lifestyles can make it hard to stick to healthy-eating plans, with temptation lying in wait wherever we go. It’s not always easy to find a healthy meal in a convenience store and it’s not always practical to take pre-prepared food to reheat and eat when you’re out and about. This is where meal replacement shakes can be an invaluable aid to help you stay on track with your weight-loss regimen. In 2008, the American Dietetic Association found that dieters using partial meal replacement shakes lost more weight after 12 weeks, more weight after a year — and had a significantly lower drop-out rate than those using solid food alone. However, you may have heard that some commercially produced shakes are high in sugar, carbs and full of preservatives — and this is true in many cases. A creamy shake lifted by a refreshing hint of mint. Calories per serving 205 Place all of the ingredients in a blender and blitz until smooth. Add more water, if necessary, to reach the consistency that you prefer. This makes a zingy drink with a vibrant orange colour. Make sure your blender is sturdy enough to cope with the tough carrot slices. Calories per serving 187 Blitz all of the ingredients in a blender until smooth. Add more water, if necessary. Crisp green apple adds fibre and sweetness to this gorgeous green shake. Calories per serving 196 Put ingredients in a blender and blitz till smooth. Add more water, if necessary. Choose any frozen fruit you like for this cool shake. Make sure your blender is sturdy enough to crush ice. Calories per serving 190 Put all the ingredients in a blender and blitz until smooth. Add more water, if necessary, if the shake is too thick. A delicious and filling chocolatey hit. Calories per serving 195 Put all the ingredients in a blender and blitz until smooth. Add more water, if necessary, to reach your preferred consistency.  Cook's tip: Whole milk may contain three times the fat of skimmed milk but has 90 times more omega-3 fats — and keeps you feeling fuller for longer  When you’re choosing a meal replacement shake, check to see that it’s low in sugar, but high in fibre and high-quality fats. It should also contain a high quantity of protein — you need to eat about 60-70g a day on the Fast 800 diet. The sugar content is important because if your shake is high in sugar, this will lead your blood sugar levels to spike — and, in response, your body will produce insulin to clear the extra sugar away. Insulin does this by storing excess sugar as fat around your middle over time — and this visceral fat is particularly bad for your health. Conversely, shakes that are high in protein and contain quality fats will keep you feeling satisfied for longer and help to build muscle, which also aids weight loss. Or why not try making your own? Here are some delicious suggestions to savour at home or pop in a container to take out with you. For more nutritious, low-sugar Mediterranean-formula shakes, visit: thefast800.com. The Fast 800 Recipe Book: Low-carb, Mediterranean-style Recipes For Intermittent Fasting And Long-term Health, by Dr Clare Bailey and Justine Pattison, published by Short Books, £16.99. The Fast 800 Health Journal by Dr Clare Bailey, published by Short Books, £9.99. Recipes by Dr Clare Bailey Photography: Smith & Gilmour. Food styling: Phil Mundy 
