online
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  01:29, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8040351/Seek-profit-falls-24-weak-economies.html }
Online jobs listing provider Seek has had its first-half profit fall 24 per cent, largely due to fewer advertisements in Australia and Hong Kong. Chief executive Andrew Bassat says the subdued economic conditions affected overall net profit, which was $75.6 million. However, he is pleased revenue was up 15 per cent to $883.7 million. "Our results will fluctuate somewhat with the (economic) cycle but in the areas we can control we are pleased with our progress," Mr Bassat said. Investors have backed the business since the figures were published on Tuesday. Shares were trading higher by 1.65 per cent to $22.78 at 1337 AEDT. Seek operates in Australia, Asia and Latin America. The Australian operation grew revenue by one per cent despite an eight per cent fall in ad revenue. Other services, such as talent search, helped overcome the Australian ad revenue loss. Seek claims to have 37 per cent of online job listings in Australia. Hong Kong, its biggest market in Asia, was affected by political unrest. Revenue growth for the region was flat as a result. Latin America produced weak results, which was expected. A better-performing unit was investments. Revenue improved by 27 per cent from this category, which includes Chinese subsidiary Zhaopin, Online Education Services and early-stage ventures. The ventures group involves stakes in online employment and education providers such as human resources software vendor Employment Hero. Mr Bassat said full-year results would be affected by the coronavirus outbreak, softer economic conditions and investments. He said forecasting the impact of the virus was impossible but Seek was significantly under-earning. Shareholders will receive an interim dividend of 13 cents per share. That is less than the interim dividend of 24 cents per share paid last year. SEEK KEY FIGURES * Net profit down 24 pct to $75.6m * Revenue up 15 pct to $883.7m * Interim dividend of 13 cents per share, down from the 24 cents per share interim dividend last year. 
