{ By Carina Stathis For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:27, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8039625/The-best-cleanser-Australia-voted-THOUSANDS-women.html }
Dermalogica's plant-based PreCleanse has been voted the best cleanser in Australia in Beauty Heaven's annual beauty awards. Priced at $19.50 for a 30mL tube, the American product's popularity arose from its ability to 'thoroughly melt' excess layers of oil and makeup and cleanse the skin. The cleanser is described as an 'all time favourite', with many giving it five out of five stars. 'Repurchased the Dermalogica Precleanse a few times and I can say with confidence that this is the best precleanse currently on the market,' one customer said. The cleanser contains nourishing ingredients including olive oil and apricot kernel oil to soothe irritation, and Vitamin E to improve smoothness. 'I look forward to cleansing my face each night, and just love how it works its magic, and so quickly too,' another customer said. Another woman also praised the product's formula, lightweight texture and suitability for all skin types. 'It's easy to use for everyone, especially those who aren't used to oil cleansers and has a nice pleasant lavender-fruity scent,' she said. 'It works really well to remove all my makeup leaving it just really clean feeling and comfortable, not drying at all.'  As the name suggests, the product is a pre-cleanser, so many customers incorporate a second cleanser into their regime to thoroughly cleanse the skin. Shoppers also recommended using the 'less is more' rule and apply a small amount on the palm of your dry hand and rub all over the face. The product is available in two sizes including the 30mL tube and a 150mL bottle priced at $65.50.  The runner-up cleanser at the beauty awards was Clinique Liquid Facial Soap.   Muk Haircare's Deep muk Ultra Soft Shampoo ($25.95) and Muk Haircare's Deep muk Ultra Soft Conditioner ($25.95) beat out competition from hundreds of other products  Both products seek to de-tangle your hair and replace lost nutrients and moisture to leave it soft and shiny The products are suitable for all hair types, 'including dry, brittle, chemically treated, damaged and bonded hair extensions' The products have an average of four stars online, with glowing reviews  'My thick, blonde and wavy hair needs a deep scrub on hair wash days. And usually after shampooing, my hair is knotty and matted,' one happy customer said  'Deep Muk leaves my hair feeling amazing and smooth. Its thick formula means you need less, which is amazing for gals with long thick hair that washes twice,' another said  
