online
{ By Adam Mccleery For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:21, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8039967/Dream-job-Chook-no-Chicken-Treat-want-PAY-people-eat-try-delicious-new-burgers.html }
An iconic chicken burger franchise is on the hunt for two people to become taste testers for their newest mystery burger.  Chicken Treat, a Western Australian institution since 1976, has advertised the two roles and assured people it's not an advertising or marketing stunt.  'Have you just stumbled upon what could be WA’s best job?' the job advertisement read. 'Could all your chicken dreams be coming true? Yes, you read it right, Chicken Treat is searching for Official Burger Taste Testers to try their new burger creation.' The restaurant is working on a new 'mystery burger' and is looking for testers to help bring it to the menu.  'You’ll be paid to taste test Chicken Treats latest mystery burger that is in the final stages of creation,' the advertisement continued. 'Plus work with Chicken Treat Head Office on new burger ideation.' The ideal candidate must have a 'love of chicken and all things carbs' and a 'history of never saying no to a burger'. With regards to experience Chicken Treat wants people with at least 10 years experience eating chicken and 'must not have made friends with salad'. 'They must be a self-proclaimed Burger Connoisseur with an intimate knowledge of the perfect meat to sauce ratio,' the advertisement stated. 'Has eaten Chicken & Waffles at least twice in their life. Expertise in licking fingers (and the) ability to lift heavy stacked burgers.'  A Facebook post touting the job received good online engagement with many people enjoying the tongue in cheek wording of the job ad.  'Best job ad ever!' one user wrote.  'Can I still apply if I made friends with salad in the past, but currently not on talking terms with at the moment?,' another added.  'What a dream,' another replied.  The role is a paid position and will be for two days a week.            
