{ By Zoe Zaczek For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:19, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8039865/Misinformation-Quaden.html }
A nine-year-old boy with dwarfism has fallen victim to false and nasty misinformation about his age after he rose to fame in a viral video about bullying. Quaden Bayles' mother Yarraka filmed the schoolboy crying and saying he wanted to end his life after being severely bullied by his classmates.  In the wake of the heartbreaking footage going viral last Wednesday, Quaden has been inundated with support from celebrities, sportspeople and musicians across the globe. But false rumours questioning Quaden's age and the Bayles family have spread online, with well-known media figure Miranda Devine jumping on the toxic bandwagon. The News Corp journalist retweeted a video of Quaden displaying cash, accompanied by text falsely claiming the schoolboy was actually a paid actor. 'Quaden Bayles is an Australian actor whose mom, Yarraka, posted a fake sobbing video of him,' the misleading tweet said.  'The MSM [mainstream media] and Hollywood fell for it and got him $300K+ in donations.  'Here Quaden counts his acting money. Will Quaden's mom return the donations?' Devine seemingly fuelled the misinformation, writing: 'That's really rotten if this was a scam. Hurts genuine bullying victims.' One of Devine's followers wrote it would be a 'crime' and 'child abuse' if Quaden's video was proven to be a scam.  She replied: 'Yep. Exactly. On the case.' Devine then wrote: 'And coaching the kid to say those things that no nine year old would say.'  A number of Twitter users said Devine should check her facts before spouting such opinions on social media.  In a response to an article debunking myths about Quaden's age, Devine wrote: 'I never mentioned anything about his age. That's a dishonest diversion.'  ABC journalist Matthew Bevan said Devine 'should delete this immediately' while Media Watch's host Paul Barry said she should 'step up' after criticism of her tweets. 'Because if Miranda Devine thought about it for one moment or checked, as any proper journalist would do, she would know that it's nonsense, and she should not be retweeting it and suggesting it might be true,' Barry wrote.    'Do you expect no standards from such a prominent columnist?'    Another post circulating on Twitter said Quaden's high-profile Instagram page and modelling are proof he 'scammed everybody'. The accuser also pointed to a photo of Quaden at an 18th birthday party, falsely saying the celebrations were for him when they were actually for a friend of his named Garlen. In the heartbreaking footage shared last week, Quaden - who has the most common type of dwarfism called achondroplasia -  is seen sobbing into the camera and saying he is suicidal from being relentlessly bullied.  He told his mother: 'Give me a rope, I want to kill myself.'  'I just want to stab myself in the heart... I want someone to kill me.'  Quaden also scratched at his neck and said: 'I want to die... I want to scratch myself'. Ms Bayles shared the video publicly on Facebook in a bid to raise awareness about the impact of bullying. The nine-year-old was invited to walk the Indigenous All-Stars NRL team onto the pitch at Cbus Super Stadium, on the Gold Coast, as they took on the Maori All-Stars on Saturday. Ms Bayles said Quaden had gone 'from the worst day of his life to the best day of his life' after being asked to lead out the NRL team.   
