online
{ By Erica Tempesta For Dailymail.com   Published:  00:53, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8039507/Sofia-Richie-shows-curves-poses-topless-racy-new-fashion-campaign-Rollas.html }
Sofia Richie struck a pose in nothing but her jeans for her sizzling new campaign celebrating her new collaboration with the Australian denim brand Rolla's.  The Rolla's x Sofia Richie Spring/Summer 2020 collection launched online on Sunday, and the racy images show the 21-year-old model covering her bare chest with her hands as she strikes a pose for the camera.  Sofia teased one of the photos from the '90s supermodel-inspired campaign in October before revealing earlier this month that she had teamed up with the brand for a capsule collection.   In the sultry images from the shoot, Sofia is posing topless while modeling distressed high-waisted cutoff shorts and straight-legged jeans.  Her feet are bare in many of the shots, and she is standing in front of a plain white background — making sure all eyes are on her.  Sofia's blonde hair is styled in loose waves around her shoulders, and she is giving the camera a come-hither stare.   Other pictures show her modeling key pieces from the 15-piece capsule collection, including pink-flared corduroys, a pink patterned peasant blouse, and a white Rolla's logo sweatshirt.   The pieces are available in sizes XS to XL and prices range from $49 for a classic white T-shirt to $109 for a floral sundress.    'Rolla’s aesthetic is inspired by classic, iconic denim looks and Sofia Richie is the perfect fit — a confident, modern woman with laid back Californian style,' the brand explains on its website.  'Sofia embraces her sensuality, something that is close to the heart of Rolla’s ethos. We celebrate empowered self expression and embrace modern femininity.'  Sofia's close friend Kylie Jenner promoted the collaboration on her Instagram Stories over the weekend, sharing a photo of the pink corduroys the brand had sent her.  'Yes @sofiarichie,' she wrote. 'Love you!!' Grammy winner Lionel Richie sweetly supported his youngest daughter Sofia at the launch of her Rolla's denim collaboration at 1 Hotel in West Hollywood on Thursday night. Sofia's boyfriend Scott Disick, 36, was also at the event, and she shared a sweet snapshot of herself kissing him on her Instagram Stories, writing: 'My Love.' The model looked spectacular in a pair of light-wash jeans from her line, which she tapered at the angle with silver wire.  She paired her jeans with a black blazer that she cinched at the waist with a brown corset-style belt.  Also enjoying the Australian denim brand's bash was 'Friday' hitmaker Rebecca Black, who showed a little leg in a black leather mini-skirt and knee-high PVC boots. Popstar Sia's dancing avatar Maddie Ziegler bared her belly in a cropped white turtleneck beneath a black leather blazer, matching peep-toe heels, and blue jeans. And Amelia Hamlin — whose parents are Lisa Rinna and Harry Hamlin — also flaunted her taut tummy in a white corset top, black faded jeans, and black platform boots. 
