online
{  
    March 21 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/customers-slow-to-go-online-for-groceries-26055746.html }
Online shopping is growing, but some companies providing the service are dying. JAS KAMINSKI reports on the  high-tech retailing concept that is taking on the old-style shopping habits With the demise this week of another company, AP Food Investments, that promised to bring online grocery shopping to the Irish market, and only two traditional groceries making any sort of play for the online patch here, what are the prospects for online shopping? The leading British supermarket chain Tesco, with 23.5pc of the traditional grocery market in Ireland and a growing online presence through tesco.ie, is moving successfully online. Last summer it entered the US market through a joint venture agreement allowing the second biggest UK grocery chain, Safeway, to grow online using Tesco's technology and this week Tesco opened an online grocery presence in the South Korean market. The smaller, Irish-owned chain Superquinn, has almost 8.5pc of the traditional Irish grocery market. It also has an online presence in the Irish market through its superquinn4food.com channel. Dunnes Stores, with 22pc of the grocery market, has not gone online with its food offering, and the Musgrave/Today Today supported Store2door.net virtual supermarket did not go further than its trial period. The market here is split between Superquinn and Tesco, but neither is prepared to be particularly frank with figures to show exactly how effective they are to date. Early starters Tesco began toying with the idea of making its range of products available to customers online in 1996, says Dermot Breen, director of corporate affairs, Tesco Ireland. The development of its own technology to run the internet-based system, and its decision to choose an in-store picking model, have been instrumental in moving Tesco from being Britain's biggest grocer to the world's biggest online grocer. The local store has proved itself over a central warehouse-type model internationally, says Mr Breen. "The critical thing is the proximity to customers' homes which shortens the time on the road for delivery vans." By the end of the 1990s Tesco began to build up its model, tried and tested in the London area, in all parts of the UK culminating in a presence that covers 95pc of the UK population today. According to Mr Breen, between 80,000 and 90,000 people order their groceries online each week in the UK. Last year's figures show Tesco online in the UK earned stg£200m, and analysts say the online sales could increase by 50pc to make a stg£300m contribution to sales this year. In Ireland, however, the company is more circumspect with figures. Tesco's widespread national coverage of supermarkets allows it to claim that between 70pc and 75pc of the Republic's population potentially has access to the online service. The services are available in the entire Greater Dublin area, Kildare, a 25-mile radius around Cork, Limerick, Ennis, Galway, Waterford, Wicklow, and soon Meath will also be able to avail of its online service. From a start in the autumn of 2000, Tesco has built up 40,000 registered users, but this figure does not indicate how often each user avails of the service. "In a market where there is no public disclosure there is no point in giving information," says Mr Breen. "The number of people shopping online runs into thousands each week," he adds. Tesco have 80 people directly employed in the service and offers about 16,000 items online. Customers are charged ?7.6 per delivery, regardless of the size. While online sales add about 1pc to turnover, Mr Breen estimates the top line projections for online growth to be in the order of 5pc of sales, leaving some room for growth yet. Superquinn4food.ie has 30,000 registered users and approaching 2,000 orders each week, says Superquinn director Eamon Quinn. "The average online shopping basket tends to be over ?100, so people who go online tend to order a full week's shopping," he added. Superquinn delivers goods to online customers only outside the canals of Dublin, and as far out of the Greater Dublin area to parts of Wicklow, Meath and Kildare. It directly employs about 60 people in full and part-time work and charges ?7.62. per delivery. However, the Superquinn online service is hosted and operated by an application service provider, Buy4now, in which it also has a share. Buy4now.ie is Ireland's largest online shopping centre with 17 retailers all online in one place, says Ali Murdoch, managing director of Buy4now. Started in October 2000, the company works with one large brick and mortar offering in different areas of retailing, he says. Companies like the department store Arnotts, DIY specialists Atlantic Homecare, book and stationery shop Easons and the novelty gift shop The Source all have an online presence through the online high street. Getting involved in Buy4now has allowed these retailers to minimise their investment in technology. "Using Buy4now makes a lot sense," says Mr Quinn. "We are able to grow our business and our costs together. Otherwise, it is the type of business we would need to spend a huge amount of money." Buy4now developed and operates the technology through which the public makes orders, and delivers to 32 counties through its newly acquired fleet of courier vans. The figures for online shopping are mixed, according to research from Amarach Consulting. Its latest quarterly survey, released this week, show that while there has been three-fold growth in the numbers of people shopping online, a large number of people say they prefer to shop in-store now and over the next 12 months. The Amarach Consumer Trend Watch survey carried out in the first two months of the year shows that 3pc, or 28,000 people, of people shop online for groceries. This compares with 8,000 people who said they shopped online this time last year. While the increase in numbers shopping online has increased over the past 12 months, the indications are that it will remain a minority activity, says Bettina MacCarvill, a senior consultant with Amarach. The survey also shows that people still prefer to touch and see the goods in supermarkets, as well as shopping in-store, according to Ms MacCarvill. As both Superquinn and Tesco successfully roll out 'a clicks and bricks' approach to building market share, online grocery sales will remain a small, but growing contributor to sales for the future. For the time being online shopping is viewed by the companies as an extension of customer service, and profit from the embryonic activity is still a distant dream. 
