online
{ SECTOR REPORT 
    April 18 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/odds-on-for-web-gambling-26263249.html }
Gambling would appear to be a perfect partner for the  internet. In reality, many online bookmakers have taken some severe tumbles. LESLIE FAUGHNAN reports ON the face of it, gambling is an almost perfect business for the internet. No goods need to be exchanged, just information and value simply sign up online with credit card details, place a bet and wait for the result of the race, match, contest or whatever. Secure payment systems developed in recent years support the case, as does the public's growing acceptance that spending online is a safe and normal practice. In reality, experience suggests that the opposite is true. Online bookmakers, notably some of the UK giants, have taken severe tumbles in the online market with losses of the order of STG£30 million. They have gone through a very steep and painful learning steeplechase in discovering that online trading is in many ways a very different business. For a start, to work at all it has to be automated following whatever rules are set up for size of bet, credit limits, payout limits and so on. But a shrewd bookie on course or an alert clerk behind a counter can refuse or query a bet. Systems, however smart, do not yet have the benefits of instinct and are not all that great at learning from experience either. But the momentum of e-commerce and the all too human urge to gamble will not be stopped. Online betting today is learning from mistakes and slowly beginning to thrive, with many Irish bookmakers at least putting their toes in the water. "In Britain literally everyone is at it," says Stuart Kenny, managing director of Paddy Power, Ireland's largest bookmaking firm. "Soon there will have to be consolidation and the bigger brands will win out. "We've had the web site ourselves for about two and a half years and then launched the interactive online service last May. "A good 80pc of our turnover still comes from the shops, though, and we really see online betting as a complementary service rather than an alternative." The experience seen by Paddy Power and others seems to be that online betting attracts at least some new punters who would not visit or would even be intimidated by a betting shop. Women certainly form a higher proportion of online customers than they would in local betting shops, according to all the bookmakers e-Thursday spoke to. Paddypower.com will be joined in a couple of weeks by a major launch of www.paddypower.co.uk as the company makes a determined assault on the British market. High speed interactivity delivered to cable TV customers in many regions through a deal with NTL, while a similar arrangement with TeleWest is apparently in the offing. Netbet.com is the only Irish turf accountant to conduct its business entirely on the internet. The brainchild of Raymond Farrell of Sandymount, Dublin, www.netbetireland.com was launched in February 2000 as a comprehensive online betting service. Although the business was in the blood grandfather and father Raymond Farrell worked in industry for several years before becoming an on-course bookmaker. Always looking for a different angle, he forged a unique niche by deciding to take bets on British racing only, but on Irish tracks where the keen punters congregated. The www.netbetireland.com venture was the result of a deliberate and careful process. In 1998, Farrell took most of the year out to study IT, "starting with a course in typing!" he laughs. Then a course in the Centre for Advanced Technology in Dublin gave him the web grounding, after which he went for over a month to the USA to study how online gaming was progressing in that market. In 1999, he ventured initially into telephone betting while setting up the sophisticated back-end system to handle credit card betting across the board. Farrell says that the punters on his site come mostly from Ireland and most of them place their bets during office hours. In fact, several of the online bookies are convinced that internet access from offices is clearly a factor in their business, with customers taking a few minutes out to check odds or place bets during the working day. The other favourite time is between 10.00pm and about 1.00 am (in the different time zones) when people are presumably surfing the web before bedtime. While we may think principally of horse racing in terms of bookmaking, in fact online bookmakers offer odds on a huge range of events. Horses and dogs may be the leaders in the shops, but soccer is next in all betting arenas and some online bookmakers are taking more football bets than anything else. But all other sports are up on the screen, from golf to US basketball and American football. Formula 1 figures too, while the GAA, rugby, tennis, boxing and cricket all have interested punters. In fact almost any contest with a (theoretically) unpredictable result will have odds offered on the result, including elections our case study this week, Luvbet.com, even has a special new Public Affairs section. There is no question that the Betting Tax situation in Ireland and in the UK, but with change promised for next year is a major market driver towards online betting. The 5pc tax can be legitimately avoided by punters and bookies who do their business offshore. On the web, that means that bookies in far-off climbs such as Grand Cayman or Malta can compete with the Irish and British main street betting shops with a 5pc discount straight away. Other savings in overheads can be passed on in the form of better odds offered for common bets again, competing strongly with the traditional bookies in Britain and Ireland. Taking on the world's punters over the ether is not for the fainthearted or those with limited resources. "There are sharks out there," says Sharon Byrne, director and IT guru in family firm Bruce Betting. She is a self-confessed computer lover who steered the business into the launch of interactive online betting last September on its www.brucebetting.com site. "We were getting a couple of thousand hits a day at the height, but we suspended the service in December after a lot of bad experiences. "We have a 14-person telecentre for phone betting which is thriving, but we got stung on the web. "Some other smaller firms are coping by greatly limiting the size of bets and so on but we made the decision to revert to what we know we can manage." In Cork, the well-known Cashmans chain of 10 shops has had an active website for over two years. "We're quite close to going interactive now, having watched closely what has been going on here and in the UK for the past few years," says Paul Cashman. "But we would not have done it before now. For a start, we couldn't have afforded the kinds of mistakes the big boys made! There is also the question of costs to get into it. "When we looked at it first we were being quoted six-figure sums to even get going on the web. "Now, the quotes are far more realistic." 
