online
{  
    August 26 2010 08:25 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/sligo-it-providing-more-flexibility-to-students-27079339.html }
IF flexibility is a necessary requirement for students to balance family, work and study, then online learning is rapidly becoming the preferred choice of learners. IT Sligo, with 21 courses available online, has become Ireland's premier provider of this popular education system since moving into online learning in 2002. Flexible Learning : Your Course in your time: Online learning affords great flexibility to allow students organise their study around their specific needs and commitments. Online students can study from the comfort of their home or workplace from anywhere in the world, either live or at a time that better suits. The student will see and hear the lecturer delivering live lectures in real time. The interactive whiteboard allows the participating audience to see exactly what the lecturer is working on at that point in time. The live lecture is recorded and made available to students and can be accessed at a later time. The recorded lecture is particularly useful if for some reason you cannot make the live lecture or indeed when it comes to exam time when the recorded lectures become a valuable resource for revision. Quality and Choice of Online Courses: "In these challenging times the route to recovery is through upskilling and retraining," said Professor Terri Scott, President of IT Sligo. "We offer an extensive range of online courses with over 1500 online students benefitting from the flexibility that online learning affords." A selection of IT Sligo's online courses reached the finals of the 'Digital Media Awards' and the 'Engineers Ireland Innovative Company of the Year Awards' 2009. IT Sligo offers the most extensive curriculum of online courses with over 26 courses on offer. Details of the courses can be easily accessed on IT Sligo's website www.itsligo.ie The Virtual Classroom: Online learning replicates traditional face-to-face classroom learning. Online students receive the same supports and resources as the traditional classroom-based student through a dedicated team of lecturers committed to high quality teaching and learning. Lecturers check and seek feedback from students to ensure that what they are presenting is understood – it really is a virtual classroom. Support for Online Learners: In addition, each programme and module has its own web page (Moodle) where lecturers post useful resources such as past exam papers, a copy of the presentation, the recorded lecture, additional reading and assignment topics. On this web page students also have their own class forum where they can interact with fellow classmates. Online learning from IT Sligo has proven to be extremely successful with excellent exam results. Many online students come from large multinational companies in Ireland including, Intel, Boston Scientific, Abbott, Masonite, Eli Lilly, Wyeth and have graduated successfully with IT Sligo. For more information log onto website: www.itsligo.ie/online 
