online
{  
    August 07 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/online-grinds-can-net-savings-29479118.html }
THOSE maths grinds fees can be a killer, but if you need a bit of extra help with maths or some of your other Junior or Leaving Cert subjects, there is free or cheaper help to be found online. Indeed, with grinds costing anywhere from €15 to €50 per hour and some parents estimated to spend anywhere between €2,000 and €4,000 a year on them, it could make sense to explore the growing number of websites offering some form of online assistance. In addition, the trend towards e-learning is making it possible for more students to avail of grinds and last-minute revision courses, as one-on-one grinds have tended to be the preserve of students from better off backgrounds and those living in cities because of the high costs. Of course, there is no substitute for the one-on-one experience, and many experts advise looking at online help as a complement to rather than a replacement for a face-to-face tutorial. But digital tutorials, with their lower costs and greater accessibility and flexibility with their 'anytime, anywhere' approach, could be just the ticket to your exam success. Examsupport.ie One of the better-known and longer-established online tutoring sites, examsupport.ie provides video lessons, exam questions and notes for Leaving and Junior Certificate students and teachers. The website contains 434 study packs prepared by experienced teachers, each of which deals with a specific course topic. You can subscribe to the site for a full year for €312, or choose the pay-as-you-go option for €47 a month or €129 for three months. But you can also try a week's trial for €7. However, if your household subscribes to Eircom's broadband service, you can access the same study packs for free through the Eircom StudyHub. Onlinegrinds.ie Officially launched in January, onlinegrinds.ie provides online, live grind classes every night and full-time access to classes in a limited number of subjects for the Leaving Cert – English, Irish, maths, French, geography and physics – and the Junior Cert – maths and Irish – but it says more subjects are being developed. The live web-grinds also provide an instant messaging service to allow students to interact with the teachers and ask questions. The service costs €10 for a one-hour grind class or €50 per month for unlimited grinds. Themathstutor.ie If the prospect of grappling with Project Maths – the new syllabus currently being phased in to teach maths through real-life and everyday situations – brings you out in a rash, themathstutor.ie might be one place to go for extra online help. The website, which is exclusively focused on the Project Maths syllabus, features video lessons, interactive exercises and online supports. The subscription-based service costs €99 to access for a full year, although you can trial selected parts of the service for free, to see how it works. Positivemaths.ie Another site that focuses specifically on Project Maths, this differs from themathstutor in that it offers bespoke maths lessons online. The site was set up in April by engineer John Devlin, who was concerned about how Project Maths is being assessed and the stress that it is generating for students. The service runs small online tutorials, with a maximum of six to 10 per class, to offer more student-to-teacher contact, as well as one-to-one sessions with maths tutors. Classes (as well as the one-to-one tutorials) via the service cost €25 per subject per class, but students can access a recording of the class and the notes at anytime for later review. There are special offers available on selected services from time to time. 24-7tutorials.com This is a site that offers real-time, one-to-one online tutoring in all major subjects from Leaving Cert level to postgraduate, linking students with individual tutors online to seek help with homework, exam technique, thesis and research queries. Students can talk directly to the tutors via a secure online meeting room, share notes or use chat messaging, although there is no video facility, which the site says is to protect privacy. The fee model is pay-as-you-go rather than subscription – the rationale being that most homework or study queries can be solved in 30 minutes so there is often no need to book one lasting an hour. You pay €25 for a 30-minute tutorial using 'tokens' and you can buy up to 10 tokens at a time. Clevernotes.ie A relatively new online exam preparation service offered by educational publisher Folens, clevernotes.ie offers online tutoring via interactive tests, exam tips and a study centre. Subjects covered by the website currently include English, Irish, French, biology, geography, home economics, business, German and history. Clevernotes.ie also features a tool so students can practise for their Irish or French oral exams. Students can listen to sample dialogue, record themselves and re-play their recordings to check their pronunciations. The e-learning service can be accessed via Facebook or Google for €50 for the year up to end of June. Irish Independent 
