online
{ Patricia Casey 
    August 31 2013 03:04 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/anonymity-can-make-it-more-toxic-since-the-recipient-is-dehumanised-29541183.html }
Social media and the widespread use of electronic devices for the purpose of communication have brought us online bullying. This can be defined as "an aggressive intentional act carried out by an individual or a group using electronic forms of contact repeatedly over time against a victim who cannot easily defend himself or herself". Preliminary research on its prevalence began to appear in 2003, and research has increased in complexity since. Yet there are still many unanswered  questions. Even within the online-bullying domain, there are differences, and the more 'direct' the bullying, the greater the emotional impact. Does it matter that people are bullied online? Is it harmful in the same way that traditional bullying damages people emotionally? The answer is yes (but with caveats, which I will discuss). It may seem surprising that bullying by electronic device is problematic, since the bullies trade in the anonymity that electronic media provide and the young victims can easily switch off their devices or exit the chat room. However, the wide audience that online bullying reaches, and the rapidity with which this happens, make it particularly toxic. A complicating factor is that online bullying may occur among those who actually know each other and traditional schoolyard-type taunting may also take place simultaneously. It is tempting to assume that because online bullying is generally anonymous, and because it is distal, there is little prospect of any physical attacks on the young person, unlike the dangers with traditional bullying. But anonymity can also make it more toxic since the recipient is dehumanised, giving free-rein to the bully's most gratuitous verbal cruelty. Cross-cultural differences do exist, with victims in some countries reporting less concern about it than others. This may be explained by differences in initiatives in schools to assist pupils in coping when it arises, or because of different cultural levels of acceptance. In one study comparing Spain, Italy and England, the Spanish youngsters had the highest proportion (35.8pc to 43.9pc) who reported not being bothered by it. Next to the first four to five years of life, adolescence is the most important period in our development. It is when our adult view of the world is crystallising. During this time, young people draw much from the affirmation they receive from their "friends", so to be taunted continuously is deeply wounding. In an attempt to stand up for themselves and to win the respect of their "friends" online, they will often retaliate. Indeed, who among any of us would stand by while we were treated with disrespect? But defending our character or our appearance online when under attack may fail to win the support so desperately craved, and may reinforce the bullying. Of course, if others step in to defend the victim, this will help. Ultimately, this is a battle about the self-confidence of the young person who may be damaged to their core if their world appears to be ganging up on them. The short-term emotions described vary from person to person, but the most common described in the scientific literature is anger, followed by embarrassment, worry and fear. Up to 25pc report fear for their safety. Helplessness, depression, feeling alone or stressed are also reported. However, the feeling of helplessness is less prominent than in traditional bullying, perhaps because the person feels a degree of control over what is happening. Recently, behavioural problems such as argumentativeness, persistent low mood and thoughts of self-harm have been reported in the scientific literature. Much has also been made of the recent reports of suicide in those who were victims of online bullying, and it has been suggested in media circles that the bullying was the cause. One has to be cautious in making such claims since the research simply does not exist at this point to demonstrate such a causal connection. From the studies available, it is emerging that those victims of online bullying at highest risk of suicidal behaviour, including death by suicide, are those who have a mental health disorder. This may have been caused by the bullying itself, or there may be contemporaneous or prior risk factors. This has important implications for how online bullying is managed in the context of suicide risk. While online bullying damages the self-esteem of the young person, there is a caveat, since not every person exposed is damaged. There is still an incomplete understanding of the factors associated with the emergence of mental health problems after online bullying. It is sometimes the case that young people damaged by this have prior vulnerabilities such as difficulty making friends at school, low self-confidence, poor parental relationships and have experienced family breakdown. Some are also experiencing bullying in their real lives as well as online. The magnetic appeal of the internet with instant 'friends' and an immediate system of networks may be compensating for the lack of true friends. It is clear that online bullying, as with more traditional bullying, is damaging to the mental health and personality development of many young people. It may (or may not) be a causal factor in suicide. National policies must include online bullying. Linked to this, the role of mental health professionals in identifying those adversely affected must be highlighted. Those at risk must also receive professional attention to minimise the negative impact – this is especially true if the young person is from an unsupportive environment. This environment includes not only the family but the child's school too. Online bullying must be taken seriously. It is only a few years since schoolyard bullying was ignored, and psychiatrists see the impact of this in our clinics. History must not repeat itself. Irish Independent 
