online
{ David Coleman 
    November 01 2014 12:36 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/parenting/help-your-teen-to-avoid-the-stresses-that-lurk-online-30709321.html }
I am a parent of teenagers. I work every day with teenagers and their families. I keep track of technology use, and attitudes to technology, in households as part of my involvement with the biannual Eircom Household Sentiment Survey.  Yet, I still feel like I am playing catch-up when it comes to teenagers and technology, or more-particularly, teenagers and their use of social media. Just when I think I understand what it offers teenagers, and how they use it, I discover something new. For example, I only just heard about a site, used by teenagers, called 'Omegle', which is ostensibly a social networking site in which you can keep your identity a secret and "chat" to strangers. In fact, as I later discovered, the site is used, predominantly, for sexual interactions, either text only or via webcams. Another site for us parents to worry about our teenagers being active on! Even though I try to keep up to date with current research, I find that even the research is often behind the curve when it comes to the fast-moving trends in social networking and their impact on teenagers. The findings are mostly worrisome. There seems to be an overwhelmingly negative impact of social networking, with few positive outcomes. As if to buck the trend though, a 2012 survey by Common Sense Media, of over 1,000 US teenagers, found that they perceive social networking to be a positive experience. A majority described how they feel that online social networking helps their relationships with friends and family and makes them feel less shy and more confident. But this is just their perceptions. In fact, most research, that uses objective measures seems to conclude that social networking actually leads to greater unhappiness, dissatisfaction and feelings of isolation. In 2010, the outcomes of 40 research studies were collated and it was found that using the internet had a small detrimental effect on overall wellbeing. Already, though, a lot of that research may be outdated, given the speed at which social networking evolves. A more recent study by Kross and his team, in 2013, looked at how young adults' use of Facebook influenced their wellbeing, using measures of how people feel moment-to-moment and how satisfied they are with their lives generally. He demonstrated that the more these young adults used Facebook, the less satisfied they were with their lives and the worse they felt. As with all things scientific, other studies argue that it isn't just simply using social networking sites, like Facebook, that matters, it is how you use them that matters. Engaging passively or actively seems to make a difference. So, those teenagers who simply skim through other people's posts, or just consume content created by other people, are at greater risk of feeling unhappy and dissatisfied than those who "like" or comment on others' posts or those who create content. Indeed, those who engage actively in commenting, posting or even "liking" show an increase in their feelings of bonding and general social capital, while their sense of loneliness decreases. The dilemma, however, is that evidence suggests that most young people spend far more time just scrolling passively than engaging actively in their online social networks. We know, too, that social media use can be addictive. There is even a specific measure called the Bergen Facebook Addiction Scale, that you can use to judge your own, or your teenager's use of Facebook. Some of the repeated and regular use of social networking sites is explained by a fear of missing out. It has become so accepted as a specific form of anxiety that it even commands its own acronym FOMO. Many teenagers will feel edgy and anxious if they are not connected to their online world because they perceive that "life is happening' in those fora and if they are not online then they are missing out. This creates a strong drive to stay online. Also, the nature of positive reinforcement of the "likes" or comments that people make about our uploads or postings also draws us back time and again to social networks, for that feelgood hit of acceptance or connection that we covet. Another difficulty with social media is that many people present an idealised version of themselves on their social networks. So the pictures that our friends upload are often edited, or carefully chosen to present a particular image. Research suggests that this then causes envy and lots of negative comparisons. The Common Sense Media study I referred to earlier showed that teenage girls, especially, worry about the images of themselves that go online and compare themselves unfavourably to the images of their friends. The teenage years are a particularly critical period of development of our self-identity in which we are also focused heavily on where we fit with our peers. We know that teenagers, in the real world, can be very self-critical and want, desperately, to fit in. Teenagers online, therefore, may be especially vulnerable to comparisons with their peers and being highly critical of themselves, as they appear on their social networks. Equally, the stresses of trying to project a "likeable" image of themselves in their photos and posts can be draining. Cyberbullying has had a bit of a break from the media spotlight in recent months, but that doesn't mean that is has gone away. Teen are still both creators and recipients of a lot of online invective. We know that teenagers see the screen as some kind of separator between them and the person that they are attacking. The remove that is created by the physical distance and separation, makes bullying online easier. It is as if being online gives a licence to be more hurtful, more derogatory and more vicious when having a go at someone else. Then there is the difficulty of how simply distracting social networking is. I hear constant criticism from parents about their teenagers' inability to focus on homework, study, sleep and even the TV because they are constantly dipping in and out of their online social networks. Swedish researchers found, last year, that overloading ourselves with online social networks jams up our working memory (how much information we can attend to at any one moment) and blocks our capacity to process information generally. Other research shows that we can't focus on more than one thing at a time and so multi-tasking (or trying to be connected to several bits of media or technology) is simply a process of rapidly switching from one task to another. This hinders our ability to process information and reduces our productivity. I have seen social networks referred to as "weapons of mass distraction"! So there are dangers and stresses associated with online social networks. They can also be good things, but like everything in life, we must find balance. If we care about our sons and daughters we must also care about how they engage with their social networks. Irish Independent 
