online
{ Fiona Dillon 
    November 18 2019 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/online-shoppers-urged-to-beware-of-scams-in-rush-to-bag-a-bargain-38701083.html }
Nearly a quarter of online shoppers admit they are willing to take a chance on clicking a link they are not sure is safe if it means bagging a bargain.  Consumers have  been warned to beware of scammers as one of the biggest online shopping days of the year approaches, 'Black Friday'. Ulster Bank today released the findings of its 2019 fraud survey in advance of the event, which takes place this year on Friday, November 29. The Black Friday phenomenon started in the US. It is an informal name for the Friday following Thanksgiving Day, when shops traditionally slashed prices, and the concept has grown in popularity among retailers here in recent years.  The new research shows that the day has become an annual fixture on Irish calendars too, with over half of online  shoppers (51pc) planning to spend the same or more online this Black Friday than last. Only 23pc of those surveyed said they would not be  participating. The research revealed that while 76pc of respondents felt they have taken all the necessary precautions to shop safely online, nearly a quarter (23pc) admitted they would sometimes take a chance on clicking a link if it promised a great deal. Meanwhile, almost one in 10 adults who shop online claim to have shared their online banking pin or password with someone either verbally or online, with 23pc of those aged 18 to 24 having done so. Also among the key findings of the survey was that two-thirds of respondents (66pc) shop online at least once a month, with those aged 25 to 34 most likely to shop online with this frequency. Some 38pc of online shoppers claimed they quite often or sometimes click on links without really giving thought to whether they are secure or not.  Almost six in 10 adults (59pc) who shop online claim they would not be that embarrassed to admit to their family or friends that they were a victim of online fraud.  The research also found that 30pc of online shoppers said it had been a year or longer since they reviewed or updated the software security on their laptop, tablet or PC. Commenting on the results, cyberpsychologist Dr Ciaran McMahon said: "The Black Friday phenomenon is all about the chance to bag a bargain before a deadline. "However, academic research shows that when faced with time pressures,  we often make decisions that are more emotional and less analytical.  "Scammers are hoping that we will drop our guard." He said cybercrime was an increasingly sophisticated enterprise, but scammers had deadlines too.  "Consumers can slow them down by simply stopping to think: is this deal too good to be true?" added Dr McMahon. Consumers were advised to be vigilant and cautious about what they disclose on social media and take precautions to ensure their profile is private. Irish Independent 
