online
{  
    October 22 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/buying-groceries-over-the-net-might-send-you-off-your-trolley-26107353.html }
Jacqueline Sheils went supermarket shopping online but found the experience will take a bit of getting used to I'm not one of those people who despise grocery shopping, but then again I don't have a big family so I don't spend the price of a new car on a weekly shop. I'm the type who visits a supermarket once a month when I run out of the essentials or have people coming for dinner so, to be honest, it's not a mammoth chore. But, I admit that I joined in the collective, national sigh of relief on hearing that an online supermarket was on the way, meaning that not only would a complete stranger do my shopping for me but it would be delivered to my door. Superquinn are now offering Internet shopping for items as mundane as cabbages, cloths and cat food for a limited few lucky customers at least. If the UK experience is anything to go by, online supermarkets should prove very successful here a growing online population, longer working hours and less free time all encourage online shopping. Although some of the smaller outlets in the UK, such as Budgens and Somerfield have been forced to abandon their online retailing, the shopping giant Tesco is reaping in online sales. With over 250,000 registered customers and £125million in annual sales there's little doubt that there's a market for online supermarket shopping. In fact analysts estimate that it will grow to 10 percent of the market by 2005 and be worth over £120billion. And it's this market that Superquinn intends to take a slice of. Already a well-established and respected store, Superquinn has joined forces with the likes of Arnotts, Eason, Atlantic Homecare and Nature's Way to establish Buy4Now.ie ``an innovative retail website that offers Irish people a fast, convenient and hassle-free way to go shopping,'' apparently. Unfortunately, I discovered doing my grocery shopping on Superquinn4food more stressful than pushing a three-wheeled trolley up the side of Lough Derg. Admittedly, shopping in any supermarket you're not used to takes time and patience the toilet rolls are on different shelves and the lemons where the apples should be. Now take that experience and multiply it by five and this is what you'll experience the first time you shop online. The Buy4Now homepage itself is clear and easy to navigate. The problems start once you actually try to shop in the Superquinn section. Everyone is required to register on the site, which will determine whether you're `validated' to shop in Superquinn4food. At the moment there are a limited number of stores operating the online service in the Dublin area. Living outside the designated area I wasn't validated so, using a colleague's address, I was admitted to the Superquinn4food site. As with the homepage, the site is designed and laid out clearly, the process all looked very simple indeed until I realised that the online supermarket has over 12,000 products on offer that's a lot of different types of butter and cleaning fluids to get through. I have two major problems with online supermarket shopping I'm no good at ordering by weight or remembering brand names. Normally, I go into a store, pick up a four-pack of chicken breasts easy, everyone's happy online I had to start choosing between Kgs and Lbs, meaning I almost ended up with enough chicken to end world hunger. I'm just as bad when it comes to brands, I know what pasta sauce and kitchen roll I like by the packaging, ask me to name the brand and I'm lost. I started in the bread department, again the range was astounding but in the end I opted for a Great White Pan, moving on I chose cranberry juice, potatoes, bananas, milk and a range of other standard household goods. The whole shopping expedition took over 40 minutes and was tedious and annoying. Admittedly, the main problems were caused by the fact that I was new to the site it took an age to find out what was where. Secondly, a lot of what I would buy on the deli counter I know by sight, trying to pick a pate or salami from a choice of six or seven is rather more difficult when you're not sure what it's called in the first place. Also, the lack of product information makes choosing a conditioner for dry hair or cream for sensitive skin almost impossible. But what really infuriated me was that it was only when I finally processed the order that I was informed that my shopping would not be delivered for 14 days as my chosen store was not yet operational. Surely this important detail should have been made known to me prior to my shop? At this point I contacted Superquinn, who agreed for the sake of my experiment to deliver the goods, which they did at the time they promised for the standard £5 fee. Apart from the ridiculous amount of plastic bags used almost every item got it's own individual bag the delivery went smoothly. What's reassuring is the technology used by Superquinn to ensure that customers receive exactly what they ordered. Once an order is received it's forwarded to the designated store where a trained shopper picks your produce which at all times must match their electronic shopping list, otherwise the order cannot be processed. There's also the option to substitute out-of stock goods with a similar alternative. Admittedly, the site does have lots of potential: it's possible to save your online shopping list so you can simply repeat your order without having to reorder each time you visit. Superquinn4food has also produced a CD which allows you to shop offline and log on to send the order and all discounts and club card points are valid online. And, yes, more stores will come online over time thus avoiding the `validation process'. People will get used to shopping online as they eventually get used to the layout of any new shop, so I'll try the shop again maybe. For me, the best thing about the whole experience was the extremely nice gentleman who delivered my cabbages I couldn't have picked better myself. 
