online
{  
    January 07 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/cao-application-online-or-paper-26060731.html }
All applicants have a choice of method of CAO  application, either online or by pen and paper. The CAO application handbook advises on page one that online  application is the preferred method of application. * All applicants have a choice of method of CAO application, either online or by pen and paper. The CAO application handbook advises on page one that online application is the preferred method of application. Last year, about 6000 applicants or 10% of all applicants to CAO, applied online. CAO's website is www.cao.ie Once you click on to the website, you are taken through each step of the application. Online application costs less than a paper application. The normal fee for an EU applicant online is 20 (£17.75) as against 30 (£23.63) for a paper application. There are higher fees for non-EU applicants, and for both EU and non-EU late applicants, but in all cases an online application costs less than a paper application. The information sought on either the online application or the paper applications is the same. Online applicants who are special category applicants and would be required to complete pages three and four (part B) of the paper application form will be contacted by CAO with special instructions about the submission of these information required and attachments. Payment All applicants must pay their application fee through a bank, using the three-part application fee payment form included with the CAO application pack. Part three of this form is a bank giro form and is retained by the bank. The bank must stamp parts one and two of the form. Paper applicants must return part one of the form (duly stamped) to CAO, and retain part two for their own record as evidence of payment.Online applicants must enter the sequence number of the application fee payment form in the appropriate box of their on-line application. Four steps On-line application consists of four steps. Step one is the filling out of the form. Step two occurs when the computer checks the form to see that the course codes are valid. If you have entered invalid codes you must correct them before moving on to step three. In step three, your application details will be shown on the screen for you to read through and confirm or amend. When you are ready, you click "send to CAO'. But you are warned that your application is not completed until you finish step four. Step four: When you have completed your application, a Receipt of On-line application will be displayed on screen. It is vitally important to print this receipt or save it to a file. It is the only evidence which will be acceptable that you have completed your Online application. 
