online
{ Louise McBride 
    December 01 2019 07:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/ten-ways-to-keep-your-christmas-shopping-spree-headache-free-38741739.html }
Many of us will spend almost €900 more on shopping this month than we do during any other month of the year, according to recent research by Retail Ireland. So with only 24 shopping days left until Christmas, how can you eliminate or reduce the headaches that could crop up during your biggest shopping spree of the year?   PAY BY CASH IF SHOPPING LOCALLY It can be easy to lose track of the amount you're spending if paying by card so, for that reason, paying by cash when shopping locally can be a good way to avoid overspending. Work out how much you wish to spend, bring that amount of cash along with you on the day - and don't spend more than that. Ask the shop for a receipt if paying in cash, and then be sure to keep that receipt. A receipt is the easiest way to prove you bought something if you pay in cash.   PAY BY CARD IF ONLINE OR IN NI Pay by debit or credit card if shopping online, in Northern Ireland or elsewhere in the UK this Christmas. You often have more protection when you use your debit or credit card to pay for something than you do when you pay by cash, particularly if shopping online or outside the EU. You may, for example, be able to use chargeback if an item ordered online never arrives, or if the shop you have ordered it from goes out of business. With chargeback, your card provider agrees to reverse the transaction and refund you the money paid for something, on the basis that the goods were not delivered. "Never send cash or use a money-wiring service when buying online because you will have no comeback if something goes wrong," said Aine Carroll, director of communications with the Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (CCPC).   ONLY BUY ONLINE FROM EU-BASED SHOPS There has been a big jump in the number of Irish people buying from websites based outside the EU. The number of non-EU parcels which An Post is delivering to Irish addresses has increased by between 15pc and 20pc over the last year, according to a spokesman for An Post. Your rights for comeback, should you run into problems after you buy something from a website based outside the EU, are not as strong as they would be had you bought from an EU-based website. For example, you have the right to change your mind - and get your money back - on something you bought from an EU-based website. You also have the right to have your goods delivered in no more than 30 days, or less if you have agreed otherwise. These rights don't apply if buying from outside the EU. So before buying from a website based outside the EU, read its returns and refunds policy - and if you're not happy with that policy, shop elsewhere. Be sure, too, you can find genuine contact details for the retailer on its website. "By law, you should be provided with an online retailer's full contact details, including the trader's address, so you know where it is and how to contact it," said Carroll. "However these rules only apply within the EU." Be aware, too, that you may be hit with import charges (custom duty, excise duty and Value Added Tax) when you buy from a website based outside the EU.   DON'T BUY ONLINE FROM PRIVATE SELLERS You could run into trouble getting your money back or getting any redress if you buy from a private seller online.   CHECK THE DELIVERY DATE Check with the seller if any gift or item you're ordering online will arrive before Christmas - particularly if you are only starting your shopping now. An item bought from an EU-based website must be delivered within 30 days, unless you have agreed a different delivery date. As there are now fewer than 30 days to go until Christmas, your order could arrive after Christmas unless your retailer has guaranteed to deliver it before then. Should you need to receive your order by a specific date, make a written request to the trader before making the purchase and await confirmation that your request can be accommodated. Checking an online retailer's last order date for Christmas is always wise, but be aware that last order dates are often guidelines rather than guarantees - and circumstances outside of the retailer's control, such as bad weather or strikes, may delay your order.   BREXIT-PROOF YOUR SHOPPING SPREE Once Brexit goes through, it could become more expensive for Irish residents to buy from the UK and Northern Ireland - and you could find it hard to get redress if you run into problems with something bought from the UK. However, the postponement of Brexit until January 31 means it shouldn't be any trickier or more expensive to shop in Northern Ireland, or from UK-based websites, this Christmas than it has been in previous years. Indeed, the weak sterling could make it cheaper to do so. All the same, find out where you will stand if you run into problems with something bought from Northern Ireland or the UK if those issues don't crop up until after Brexit. Ask the retailer if you will be able to return or replace an item or if the shop will repair it if you discover a problem with it after Brexit. Find out if - and in what circumstances - you are entitled to a refund.   TAKE YOUR TIME "Christmas is very unique in that people are very busy and so they are distracted and rushing around and not paying as much attention as they usually would when shopping," said Jillian Heffernan, head of communications with the Banking and Payments Federation of Ireland. "Also Christmas is very expensive, so people are looking for a bargain. This all opens up a unique opportunity for fraudsters as they can prey on the sense of urgency which many people have at this time, as well as on the increased numbers who are shopping online." To avoid falling prey to a scam in the run-up to Christmas, don't rush into any purchases. "Take your time and be sure you know which seller or shop you are dealing with," said Heffernan.   PUT SECURITY FIRST Make sure any website used for online shopping is secure: only use sites where the web address begins with 'https' rather than 'http', or where there is a padlock in the browser's navigation bar. Only buy from reputable websites such as those of high street shops or established online stores. Check the web address is spelt correctly - hackers often set up fake web sites where they mimic authentic websites. Only shop online on a secure internet network. "Don't use a public wifi network to buy something on your phone," said Heffernan. "Only use your own personal wireless network. Public wifi networks are not always secure and may be hacked." Beware of websites which have only recently been set up. "Setting up a copycat website to sell fake goods only takes a few minutes and these sites come and go very quickly," said Carroll.   IGNORE SOCIAL MEDIA ADVERTS "Don't click on links in social media adverts," said Heffernan. "Instead, go to a website independently. There are a lot of fake ads on social media." Clicking on a fake social media advert could bring you to a fraudulent online shop where you could be scammed out of money.   KNOW A GOOD DEAL FROM A BAD DEAL There are often discounts and promotions in the run-up to Christmas. Tomorrow, for example, is Cyber Monday, when a raft of internet-only deals will be offered by many retailers. Never take a 'deal' at face value, though. Just because a shop describes something as a deal doesn't mean you are getting it any cheaper than you would at any other time of the year. "Do your research in advance of the sales and find out the price before the discount so that you know if you are really getting a bargain," said Carroll. "Also remember to read the small print attached to an offer, so that you are clear about what exactly you are buying." Always shop around - no matter how good a deal looks in a store. GET PORTIONS RIGHT The portions served up for Christmas dinner are often too large, which can see a good deal of the food you have bought being wasted. "A 3.2kg (7lb) to 3.6kg (8lb) turkey is loads for six people," said Derry Clarke, the well-known chef and owner of l'Ecrivain restaurant. "Aim for a 250g to 300g portion of turkey per adult if the turkey is off the bone. Aim for a 400g to 500g portion per adult if the turkey is on the bone." Should you be serving fish for Christmas dinner, aim for a 160g portion per adult, advised Clarke. "A maximum meat portion should be 180g per person," he added. So if you're cooking for six people, a 1kg ham should be more than enough. Adjust your portion sizes for children too. A child aged between five and 10 should typically get between a half and two-thirds of an adult's portion.   SHOP AROUND A 4kg (9lb) fresh turkey could cost around €40 to €50 in your local butchers, though prices will vary depending on the butcher and whether or not it's a free-range bird. A turkey crown will usually be a bit pricier per kilogram, though you'd buy a lighter piece with a crown than you would if buying the whole bird. A 2kg turkey crown could cost around €40 from a butcher or farm shop. A 3kg turkey crown could cost €60 to €65. A supermarket may work out cheaper. Lidl, for example, will be selling a 1.8kg turkey crown for €21 from December 20, a 2.4kg turkey crown for €28 and a deluxe 5kg fresh turkey for €38.   BE DIFFERENT Look into cheaper alternatives for your Christmas meal - particularly if you're on a budget or are a small family. "A turkey can be too big for a small family," said Clarke. "A good organic chicken could do a family of four as an alternative to turkey." Fish and duck are other cheaper alternatives.   MAKE YOUR OWN Make your own canape rather than buying one. "Canapes can be expensive," said Clarke. "Get some brown bread and some fresh salmon or parma ham - or even the baked ham that you have for the main dinner - and make up your own canape." Rather than buying jars of condiments, make your own sauces. You may already have the ingredients at home. "You could make a ham glaze with mustard, brown sugar, honey and cloves," said Clarke. You could also make your own bread sauce or cranberry sauce.   BUY LESS "People generally buy too much food for Christmas," said Clarke. So buy fewer treats and veg and serve one or two simple desserts. Consider ditching the starter. "I don't think you need a starter for the Christmas meal," said Clarke. "If you are having a starter, have a very light one." Sunday Indo Business 
