online
{  
    January 07 2008 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/applying-for-that-course-26342921.html }
January is traditionally the month when most applicants apply to the CAO, although an application may be made to the CAO during a 90-day period from November 1 to February 1. Before you start, read the handbook. All applicants should receive a copy of the 'CAO 2008 Handbook', and this is the 'bible' with regards to application procedures. An application may be made either by paper or online but you must not use both methods. Applicants may make one application only. The majority of applicants choose to apply online. Applicants are provided with the opportunity to go through an interactive 'demo' online application procedure before completing the real application. The online application process presents on the computer screen page by page, so an applicant must complete each page before the next page appears on screen. The CAO paper application form consists of four pages. Pages one and two of the paper form constitute Part A, to be completed by all applicants. Non-standard applicants only are required to fill out Part B (pages three and four) as well. The paper application form is accompanied by an application fee payment form. The information sought is the same whether the applicant applies online or by paper, although there is a slight difference in the order in which the information is requested. The page references that follow apply to the paper application form page numbers. Part A (pages one and two of the form) is self-explanatory. Standard Republic of Ireland school leavers, who form the vast majority of CAO applicants, will not need to complete more than this section. The following factual information is sought: l Your name, surname and other names: When the CAO searches for your exam results next August, it does so by matching your name and date of birth from your application form with your name and date of birth from your school records. The CAO warns that applicants may face complications in the future if the name on their birth certificate is different from the name on their application. There is also the option of listing the title by which you prefer to be addressed, Ms or Mr, etc. You should also mark either F for female or M for male in the box provided. l DATE OF BIRTH: Remember to enter the year of your birth and not the current year, as applicants sometimes do. Such an error will be detected in an online application. l YOUR ADDRESS: The paper form allows space for your permanent home address, and an address for correspondence, if that is different from your home address. The address for correspondence is normally your home address -- but the important thing is that it is where you (or somebody you have asked to act on your behalf, such as your parent/s) will be when the CAO sends you correspondence, particularly your statement of application record in May, and hopefully, your offer notices in the summer. Online applicants are only asked to provide their home address. l COUNTRY OF BIRTH: This can be of significance particularly if an applicant is seeking exemption from Irish as an entry requirement to an NUI (National University of Ireland) university on the grounds that they were born abroad, or if an applicant born outside of Ireland wants to demonstrate that he or she is likely to be an EU applicant. l NATIONALITY: Applicants are required to state their nationality. l MOBILE PHONE NUMBER AND EMAIL ADDRESS: Applicants are also invited to list their mobile phone number, if it is different from their contact phone number already provided, and an email address, if they have one. l DISABILITY/SPECIFIC LEARNING DIFFICULTY: Higher education institutions are anxious to make appropriate provision for any applicants who have difficulties with a medical or physical condition, or a specific learning disability. If an applicant has a difficulty which he or she believes should be brought to the attention of a Higher Education Institute (HEI), they should tick the appropriate box provided. Applicants are not obliged to disclose such details, but the CAO encourages them to provide this information. It will not adversely affect an application in any way. l SCHOOL DETAILS: Pupils are entered by their schools as Leaving Certificate examination candidates with the Department of Education and Science. Hence, your exam results come to you via your school, and the CAO will also check through all school lists when checking for each applicant's results. The CAO asks all applicants to list the names and addresses of the second-level school/s they have attended, and the years in which they attended them, starting with the latest school attended, if there was more than one. This will help CAO to identify exam records, including those from a previous school in the case of an applicant who sat the Leaving Certificate more than once, or it may help (HEIs) to determine EU status in the case of some overseas students. E10 applicants, that is candidates who are not sitting their Leaving Certificate through a recognised second-level school, should also enter the secondary school they attended originally, as it may be important to check for any previous Leaving Certificate results. l SIGNATURE (paper application only): At the end of page one of the paper application, the following statement appears in red print: "I have read the regulations described in the CAO Handbook 2008 and in the CAO Application Form 2008 and I agree to be bound to them. I affirm that the particulars given in this application form are true and complete." Remember, many of the simple errors applicants make arise because they did not properly read the handbook. Follow this instruction carefully before signing. Finish this page by signing your name and giving the date. PAGE TWO of the paper application form requires information under three headings: Section 1, Section 2 and Section 3. (Page 2 -- section 1) REPUBLIC OF IRELAND EXAMINATION DETAILS Unless you tell the CAO what school-leaving exams you are taking, it will not know what records to search for. If you are sitting the Leaving Certificate for the first time in the year 2008, all you have to do is tick the box marked Leaving Cert 08. When the CAO sends you your application record, you should check that the Leaving Certificate number on it is the one that you have been assigned by the Department of Education and Science. If an applicant sat the Leaving Certificate in a previous year (between 1985 and 2007), he or she should give their exam number for the year in question. Every year a small number of applicants fail to inform the CAO that they have already sat the Leaving Certificate. This could be particularly important if they are repeating the Leaving Certificate this year, and are not repeating a subject that they already passed. Take, as an example, a candidate who is not repeating English, which is an essential entry requirement for nearly every college course. If the CAO has not been alerted to search for their previous exam results, the applicant will get no credit for them. The CAO form instructs 2008 FETAC level 5/6 (formerly NCVA level 2/3) exam candidates, or those who took FETAC level 5/6 (formerly NCVA level 2/3) from the years 2002-2007, to provide their PPS number. (Page 2 -- section 2) COURSE CHOICES The listing of your course choices is the heart of the application process. This section provides two lists, one entitled Level 8 (for honours degree courses) and the other entitled Level 7/6 (for ordinary degree or higher certificate courses). You are invited to list your courses in order of genuine preference in each list. ONE GOLDEN RULE: There is only one rule to follow, and it is spelled out clearly on page seven of your handbook: "It is MOST IMPORTANT to state course choices in view of genuine preference and/or career plans. IT IS A MISTAKE to base your choices only on your present expectation of examination performance. There is no need to fear that a statement of your genuine order of preference will militate against you. If you are not successful in your first choice, this will have no effect on your chances of obtaining a place in one of your lower preferences." DO NOT MIX LISTS: The two lists, Level 8 list and Level 7 & Level 6 list, operate independently of one and other, and you will be offered the highest preference course you are entitled to, if any, from each list. It is clearly indicated in the handbook whether a course is a Level 8 (honours degree) course or a Level 7/6 (ordinary degree or higher certificate) course. It is not possible to enter a course code in the wrong list using the online facility. Applicants are not required to apply for courses on both lists, but simply on the list/s which interest them. CHANGE OF MIND: The normal closing date for application to the CAO is February 1. However, you may change your mind about the courses you have listed, or the order in which you have listed them, almost without restriction, up until July 1 next. RESTRICTIONS: Restricted application courses are those for which there are early assessment procedures, usually around March or April, for example, an Art and Design course, which requires a portfolio, or a music degree course, for which applicants would sit a music test. All mature applicant nursing courses are also restricted, because an interview normally forms part of the selection procedure. Restricted courses are designated as such in the handbook. See page three of the handbook for further details of restricted categories of applicant and of courses. An application for a restricted application course cannot be considered unless it has been included among an applicant's original course choices to arrive at the CAO by February 1, or it has been added to an existing application between February 5 and March 1, the final date for correction of errors and omissions. Listing your choices in order of genuine preference requires careful research. You should not list any course that you have not researched thoroughly. Remember that you will be offered the highest preference course to which your results entitle you (from both of the lists). Once you have been made an offer, you will never be offered any course that is lower in your order of preference on that list than the course you have already been offered. However, you will remain on the waiting list for any course that is higher in your order of preference than the one you have been offered, and you will be offered a place on it should places become available and you are the next eligible applicant on the waiting list. Make your course choices on the basis of interest, rather than of points. Points are not set in advance, and each year's cut-off points only reflect the level of competition for a particular course that year. Undoubtedly, levels of competition remain very keen for courses where there are only a small number of places. But since you have 10 choices on each list, there is plenty of room to spread your options. Consider every choice carefully, even your ninth or tenth. It could be the only offer you are entitled to. DEFERRED APPLICATIONS: Both online and paper application procedures indicate a box which you are required to tick if you are an applicant who deferred a place from last year. (Page 2 -- section 3) SPECIAL CATEGORY Students who apply to the CAO for a college place on the basis of this year's Leaving Certificate results only are not required to complete pages three and four of the paper application form. In section 3 of page two, applicants are asked whether or not any of the special categories mentioned on page three of the form apply in their case. They must write either 'yes' or 'no' in the box provided. Otherwise the application is regarded as incomplete. NB: The online version of the application process describes these sections -- Republic of Ireland examination details, previous examination records and special category applicants -- as 'Qualifications and Assessments Summary', and this section precedes the Course Choices section in the online application. Online applicants are asked to check through the various special categories, and if none of them apply, to mark the box to that effect. If one or more special categories do apply, space is provided to give information under the relevant heading. PART B consists of pages three and four of the paper application form. Most CAO applicants are standard applicants, that is they are Irish school leavers taking the Leaving Certificate examination. They will not need to complete pages three and four, or to continue to that stage with their application online. If applicants are applying for a college place on the basis of categories in addition to, or other than, Leaving Certificate results, they will use pages three and four of the application form as well. These pages are designed to elicit further information about the qualifications of such applicants, and they are warned that failure to complete these pages properly and to supply whatever attachments are necessary could hinder their application. Applicants must provide their name and date of birth in the space provided at the top of page three. The form lists six special categories, and pages eight and nine of the CAO handbook give precise instructions on how to complete this section, if you are required to do so. Several of the special categories relate to school leaving exam results other than the Leaving Certificate, for example, GCE/GCSE results (category A); other school leaving exams (category B); or FETAC Level 5/6 (formerly NCVA Level 2/3) awards pre 2002 (category C). The other special categories relate to: further education other than FETAC Level 5/6 (formerly NCVA level 2/3) (category D); details of higher education experience in universities or institutes of technology or other third level colleges (category E); or mature applications (category F). Mature applicants should always check with the college of their choice before applying to the CAO as a number of colleges require mature applicants to apply to them directly. Applicants are reminded on page two and again on page three of the form that failure to disclose appropriate information about previous higher education experience may result in a cancellation of their application. The significance of this information relates in particular to the free tuition fees scheme. Students who have already enjoyed free tuition fees for part (or all) of a third level course must expect to have to pay for part (or all) of their second course. Two further boxes on page three relate to GCE/GCSE exam results. Applicants are advised that they should attach copies of appropriate certificates for GCE/GCSE exams already taken. The second box allows them to enter details of GCE/GCSE exams they have yet to take. SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIAL CATEGORIES: The existence of a special category does not mean that all colleges to which you are applying will treat such categories equally. The institutes of technology operate points schemes for Further Education/FETAC results, for example, whereas most universities operate pilot schemes, whereby they consider applicants with a relevant FETAC award for some honours degree programmes. Further Education FETAC awards might also help the application of a mature candidate to a university. Pages eight and nine of the handbook outline clearly the procedures which applicants using pages three and four must follow. This involves sending pages three and four of the application form, as well as accompanying certified documentation, to the CAO. Do not send anything to the individual HEIs unless requested specifically to do so. Applicants submitting pages three and four may give a short CV on page four of the application form, covering their education, work experience, achievements, interest and motivation. This is an opportunity for applicants to sell themselves to the college/s to which they are applying, so it should be used well. Page nine of the CAO handbook gives suggestions as to what areas such applicants should cover. Applicants conclude page four of the paper application form with their signature and the date on which they are making the application. Non-standard online applicants should follow the instructions which will appear on their screen about the submission of any additional documentation. Applicants using the paper application process are provided with an envelope, on the back of which there is a checklist. They are advised to check that they have completed all details on the checklist, including that they have enclosed evidence of payment of the application fee, before sealing and posting the application. They are advised to get a certificate of postage. A penalty of €10 is charged if an applicant submits an incorrect or incomplete application. Online applicants are advised to save or print out a copy of their 'receipt of online application' as evidence of having submitted their application. Late application: If applicants miss the February 1 deadline, it is possible to make a late CAO application up to May 1 for a higher fee, with some restrictions on course choices. 
