online
{ Kim Bielenberg 
    August 31 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/why-parents-must-stay-connected-to-their-children-29541140.html }
Her father said she had everything to live for. A year ago, Ciara Pugsley was a "bright and bubbly" 15-year-old who loved horses and football. She was starting Transition Year at St Clare's Comprehensive in Manorhamilton, Co Leitrim. And she had only recently learnt how to water-ski. But then, without warning, on the evening of September 19, Ciara took her own life after becoming the victim of vicious cyber-bullying on the website Ask.fm. Her devastated father, Jonathan, said this week: "We just didn't know at the time the torture she was going through online." And that is the problem faced by many parents: they do not know what their children are doing online, or where they are going. The tragedy of teenage suicide victims such as Ciara, and 13-year-old Erin Gallagher from Donegal and a spate of other internet incidents, has shown how we are still struggling to cope with all the implications of the digital revolution. It has transformed the upbringing and social lives of children and teenagers. 
Close
 Adrian Weckler: 20 sites you need to know - <a href='http://cdn3.independent.ie/incoming/article29545420.ece/binary/adrian.png' target='_blank'>click to see a bigger version  of the graphic</a> / We can see the benefits – the entertainment and educational value. This week, thousands of Irish children went back to school to turn on iPads and laptops in the classroom. There is no turning back the clock to some idealised pre-digital age, but we have yet to be successful in drawing the boundaries of what is acceptable behaviour online. A decade ago, parents might have felt they could control the use of the internet on slow dial-up computers in the corner of the living room. But when more than 90pc of young Irish people access Facebook and other sites from their smartphones, it is much harder to keep a watchful eye. As he continues to mourn his daughter, Mr Pugsley says of the bullies on Ask.fm who pestered her: "When people go online and are anonymous they feel they can write anything about anyone at any time. "They wouldn't say all those cruel things if they were face to face with a person and could see the pain and hurt they were causing, but online it is different." Cyber-bullying is not the only issue that poses huge problems for parents and their teenage children. The case of a girl who was pictured in a compromising position at a public event a fortnight ago shows how traditional notions of privacy have been eroded. Pictures were shared and spread virally across the internet with horrendous consequences. Twenty years ago, a similar incident might have passed unnoticed beyond a close circle of friends. A report this week showed this digital wild frontier has not been opened up only to teenagers. It is causing deep upset to children in Irish primary schools as smartphones with internet access spread to younger age groups. Marian Flanagan, a teacher and anti-bullying tutor at Trinity College, warned that urgent action was needed to prevent the suicide tragedies at second-level happening among much younger children in primary. In her work as an adviser, Flanagan gives out questionnaires in primary schools. She has been shocked by the results. "From the age of eight upwards, many children are now getting smartphones. They are buying them with money from their First Communion," she said. "Even at that age, there is a lot of bullying going on. It is happening by text message and on Facebook and sometimes it even goes on when a teacher turns their back in the classroom." There has always been bullying in some form, and childhoods have always been blighted by dark incidents. But the constantly changing landscape of the mobile internet makes it difficult for parents to keep track of what exactly their children are doing. Adrienne Katz, a London anti-bullying consultant who has recently advised more than 200 Irish schools on internet safety, said: "Parents can try to keep up with the technology, but by the time they have mastered it their kids will have moved on to the next craze. "This is the first generation of parents who are encountering something on such a large scale in their children's lives that they might not have come across themselves. "I am actually quite optimistic that the current generation of digital natives will cope better when they grow up and become parents, because they are more familiar with technology." Faced with this occasionally bewildering digital world, parents can veer between two extremes: they can give their children carte blanche to go where they want when they want; or they can try to shelter them from any online experience. Ms Katz said: "You don't have to be a digital expert, but you do have to hone your parenting skills and give your children advice on the big issues such as privacy and what is morally right. "The most important thing is to keep lines of communication open with your children and teenagers about what they are encountering online." Katz does not advocate barring children and teenagers from the internet, but neither does she believe the anything-goes approach works, particularly with younger users. "You wouldn't let your kids run across a main road, so you shouldn't let them run all over the internet," she said. The dilemmas for parents start as soon as their children gain online access, and by the age of 10 they want to be on Facebook and other adult social networks. "Children at that age will tell you that everybody else is on it," said Katz. "But they should not be on Facebook before the age of 13 because they are not emotionally ready for the complexities of online friendships and the hurt caused by rejection." At another extreme, many parents are tempted to ban their children from the internet completely, but Katz does not believe this is a realistic approach. "Teenagers now have such a significant part of their social lives online, so you can't simply shut it off from them. "They may be arranging to meet their friends by communicating on Facebook, so you don't want to stop them from doing that. "Also, if you say it is completely forbidden, they are less likely to come to you when they have a problem online." In the older age groups, issues of privacy and the fast spread of pictures that have potential to cause great damage have become much more pressing. According to Katz, the biggest craze among 14- and 15-year-olds in Ireland and elsewhere is for 'selfies' – pictures of youngsters taken by themselves. These are often exchanged by the photo and video messaging service, Snapchat. "Most selfies are innocent, but some are of a sexual nature," says Katz. "Girls who are asked to pose for inappropriate photos must be taught to say 'no'. "Boys will often say things like: 'If you loved me, you'd do it'. Girls need to be strong enough to say: 'If you loved me, you wouldn't ask'." Boys and girls may exchange intimate private pictures when they are in a relationship, but the problems may start when the romance breaks up and pictures spread online. Clinical psychotherapist Joanna Fortune likes to tell teenagers: "Don't put anything online unless you would not mind if your granny saw it." It is a piece of sound advice that is all too frequently ignored, but Fortune is not concerned exclusively about girls guarding their own privacy. "We also need to alter the behaviour of those who spread these pictures, and look on casually as other people are bullied online," she says. "We have a generation that is switched on 24/7, and our most important priority should be that these young people develop a capacity for empathy. A lack of empathy is a major part of our present problem. Empathy has to be taught at a very young age." As the anniversary of Ciara Pugsley's death approaches, her father believes politicians and the owners of websites must act to stop cyber-bullying. "Politicians need to make a specific mention of cyber-bullying in our laws, so that young people know clearly that it is a criminal offence." After the recent suicide of 14-year-old Hannah Smith from Leicestershire was linked to postings on Ask.fm, the site is making some changes, including the introduction of a more prominent "report" button. Facebook has also recently announced that it is trying to improve its reporting tools. "The problem is that the websites tend to be too reactive, said Mr Pugsley. "They need to be much more proactive in tackling abuses." As the digital world changes from day to day, it is up to parents to keep tabs on what their children are getting up to online, talk to them about the pitfalls as well as the benefits and warn them of the dangers. Irish Independent 
