online
{ Laura Noonan 
    May 15 2007 02:53 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/survival-of-the-fittest-26290811.html }
Earlier this week the World Association of Newspapers (WAN) boasted that global newspaper sales rose by 2pc last year. The figure prompted many a head jerk when it was revealed at a journalists’ and analysts’ press briefing last week. Wasn’t this the same newspaper business that is supposed to be spiralling into a decline by the unstoppable march of the internet? ‘‘The prognosis for newspapers is actually quite different to conventional wisdom,’’ WAN president, and Independent News & Media chief operating officer, Gavin O’Reilly told the sea of puzzled faces. “Those of us in the newspaper business are very confident in the future – a future that is built on doing what we do best – producing relevant and compelling products for our local markets, aggregating growing audiences and showcasing them to advertisers,” he said. But it is a tough battle. The competition is of a new kind, where Blackberries and Pocket PCs vie with newspapers as the companions of choice on commuter train journeys. The internet is viewed by many as a threat to the very lifeblood of traditional media, usurping its monopoly role as a provider of information. It is an argument that Mr O’Reilly rejects on several levels. First up, he argues that figures on internet usage and the online share of the media market are wildly unreliable, with no definitive authoritative voice on the topic. Secondly, he says newspapers’ share of the advertising revenue pool has held its own despite mounting competition on all sides. Thirdly he argues that online will prove an eventual ally to newspapers, by providing a platform for future growth – INM, for example, is in the process of developing a search engine for some of its local markets in a bid to fight online giants Google and Yahoo on their home turf. The move to online newspapers is a topic that’s very close to the minds and hearts of most editors and publishers. And a new generation of citizen journalists have cropped up on the net, propagating the idea that anyone with a camera, microphone or laptop can deliver the news. Learning how to harness this online audience, however, is proving the 50m dollar question. Vin Crosbie of consultancy firm Digital Deliverance recently said that newspapers needed between 20 and 100 online readers to make up for losing just one print reader, while others argue the ratio is closer to one to 10. So to make the maths work, newspapers have to attract online readers in much greater volumes. The internet makes that theoretically possible, but then there’s the challenge of how to attract new readers to the online product without cannibalising the existing market. Irish newspapers put their stories online the day their newspaper appears in print, but many international titles actually put stories online long before the printing presses are running. Over in the UK, for example, the Daily Telegraph offers updates online throughout the day in the hopes that those online readers will translate into hard newspaper sales the following morning. And the Guardian now delivers news in eight different formats, including text message, free online, and paid-for online. Other newspaper groups have pushed the boundaries of online even further, with Norwegian newspaper group Schibsted creating a search engine, Sesam, which competes with Google and Yahoo, as well as FINN.no, a portal for classified advertising. Schibsted’s is a path that is now being followed by INM, as well as a handful of other newspaper companies who are eager to take the battle to the internet giants. And there are other pockets of hope in the newspaper’s battle for survival. While sales in the US market are indeed tumbling, some observers note that this is because of the poor quality of products there, largely driven by a shortage of competition with many cities served by just one or two titles. More competitive developed markets, like Ireland and the UK, have enjoyed better fortunes, with Irish circulation dipping by just 1pc between 1996 and 2006, and print’s share of the Irish advertising market continuing to grow. The death of the newspaper has been predicted since the invention of the wireless. Today’s products bear no resemblance to those of 1920, but they are still around. The only certainty is that they will be very different in the future too. 
