online
{  
    June 19 2007 03:42 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/information-service-is-just-a-click-away-26298345.html }
The Department of Agriculture now delivers significant volumes of information to farmers via their own website: www.agriculture.gov.ie. It also provides users with access to the Department's online services -- agfood.ie. As part of the on-going drive to improve its services to its customers, the Department recently launched its new agfood.ie portal, which provides farmers with a one stop shop for all the online services offered by the Department. Currently agfood.ie provides the facility to: l Allow farmers to register calf births, apply for movement compliance certificates that are required for certain animal movements and obtain herd profiles. The latter allows a herdowner to view details of her/his animals in the herd on the Cattle Movement Monitoring System (CMMS) as well as movements in and out of the herd. l Allow the farmer make to SPS applications online and to view application, payment, land parcel information on current and previous SPS and Area Aid applications. l Allow Forestry companies to create and submit maps online in support of their planting approval and forestry grant applications. Applicants can view the Department's spatial dataset, and overlay the boundaries of their plantation using a range of tools for drawing and manipulating spatial linework, including the entry of GPS (Global Positioning System) points. Further facilities such as an online entitlement trading applications service will be added to agfood.ie in the future. Customers wishing to avail of the Department's electronic services can register online at http://www.agfood.ie. A Lo-call phone number 1890 252118 has also been set up to deal specifically with queries relating to the Department's online services. Single Payment Scheme The Department has implemented a comprehensive system to support all aspects of the Single Payment Scheme. This integrated computer system caters for, among other things, the tracking of entitlements, land parcel details, application processing, national reserve, trading, and SPS payments. The system has supported the Department in being consistently to the forefront in Europe in the delivery of payments at the earliest dates allowable. In addition, as part of the Department's co-ordinated delivery of online services to its customers, a service was provided in 2007 that allowed farmers or agents working on behalf of farmers to make SPS applications online. The online service also allows farmers to view all information relating to current and previous SPS applications. This includes land parcel map, payment information and all information sent and received relating to their application. They can also print off colour maps of their land. The new online facility proved very successful in 2007 and it is intended to provide further services such as online trading applications in the future. Animal Identification In relation to animal identification and movement, online facilities have been provided to enable farmers to l Register the birth of calves, l Apply for a compliance certificate to move animals farm to farm, l View details of compliance certificates issued to them, l View their bovine herd profile, l View movements of animals in and out of their bovine herd, and l View bovine animal details. Herd profile details and movements in and out of the herd can also be downloaded and printed. The combined facilities provide farmers with a convenient tool to manage their bovine herd and to ensure that their herd details are accurate on CMMS. Forestry The Forest Industry Mapping System (FIMS) provides a facility for approved foresters, on behalf of their clients; to create and submit maps online in support of planting pre-approval and forestry grant applications. The approved forester can view the Department's spatial dataset, and overlay the boundaries of their plantation using a range of tools for drawing and manipulating spatial line work, including the entry of GPS (Global Positioning System) points. The system provides online access to environmental datasets and colour ortho-photography for the entire country. This access provides a graphic representation of environmentally or culturally-sensitive areas such as Special Areas of Conservation, acid-sensitive zones and fisheries-sensitive zones as well as National Parks and National Monuments. Access to this spatial information provides assistance to the approved forester in the decision making process for potential applicants as approval for the planting of forests may be prohibited or more difficult to obtain in these areas. Using FIMS, the approved forester can identify less contentious areas and move their proposed plantation boundaries accordingly prior to submitting their application. This ensures a faster approval process for the applicant and an increased probability of approval. The Department is now exploring the development of functionality for full online applications for Forestry Pre-Approval and Grant Applications. 
