online
{  
    January 07 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/filling-the-cao-application-online-or-paper-26283213.html }
ALL applicants have a choice of method of CAO application, either online or by pen and paper. CAO recommends online application as the preferred method of application as it enables applicants to avoid errors which they might make if they were to use a paper application. CAO's website is www.cao.ie Once you click on to the website, you may go through the process of a demonstration dummy run. Online applications cost less than paper applications. The normal fee in 2007 (for application by February 1) is ?35 for an online application as against ?45 for a paper application. Applicants who apply after February 1 pay a higher fee, but a late online application costs less than a late paper application (?70 as opposed to ?90). The latest date for application is May 1. The format of the paper application and the online application differs very slightly, but the information sought is the same. Standard applicants can complete their whole application process online. Online applicants who are required to complete pages three and four (part B) of the application form should follow the instructions about the submission by post of any additional documentation. PAYMENT OF CAO APPLICATION FEE Applicants using the paper application form must pay their application fee through a bank. A three-part application fee payment form is included with the CAO application pack. Part three of the form is a bank giro form and is retained by the bank. The bank must stamp parts one and two of the form. Applicants must return part one of the form (duly stamped) to CAO, and retain part two for their own record as evidence of payment. CAO offers an online payment facility that cuts out the need for the trip to the bank. Online applicants may use a MasterCard or Visa credit card or a Laser card to pay the fee. However, online applicants are not required to pay their application fee by credit card. They may pay their fee through a bank before completing the online application, using the Application Fee Payment form provided with the paper application. If they choose to go to the bank, they should then enter the payment sequence number of the payment form in the space provided on the online application. Those who apply on the paper application form may not use the credit card facility. Paper applicants are advised to get a certificate of postage when posting their application back to CAO. Online applicants are told to print out or save a receipt of their application as the final step (step 6) in their application. 
