online
{ Fergus Black 
    August 01 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/almost-half-of-population-say-they-will-never-use-internet-26075879.html }
ALMOST a third of Irish adults - 895,000 people - currently  go on line to use the Internet and Internet use has doubled here in the last two years, a new survey has revealed. But the Internet is failing to take off among the over-50s and among a majority of blue collar workers and an estimated 47pc of Ireland's adult population say they will never go online, new research shows. And, while more than a quarter of a million people will be regular online shoppers by 2003, the majority of Internet users are not buying online and have no intention of starting to do so in the near future. In its latest survey on the current state of Ireland's consumer online market, Amárach Consulting forecasts that 43pc of Irish adults will be accessing the Internet on a regular basis by 2003 compared with just 14pc in 1999. However, while the numbers going online will rise steadily over the next few years, the high levels of growth seen over the last two years are unlikely to be repeated in the future. Key findings include: * 895,000 Irish adults (32pc) currently use the Internet. * 43pc of adults will be using the net by 2003 but 47pc of adults say they will never use it. * 15pc of net users are currently buying online with travel the number one online purchase. * Ireland's consumer ecommerce market will be worth £260m by 2003. "The slowdown in Internet take-up is being driven by a number of factors," according to Amárach senior consultant Bettina MacCarvill. "Internet use at work has almost reached saturation levels and little additional growth will come from first-time users accessing the Internet at work. "Our research found that an estimated 47pc of Ireland's adult population say they will never go online." Ireland's consumer eCommerce market will be worth close to £100m this year and the researchers estimate it will rise to £260m within the next two years. But it says this represents a downward revision of forecasts released last year. Despite the impressive level of growth in numbers buying online, the simple truth remained that the "vast majority" of Internet users were not buying online, nor did they have any intention to do so in the near future, it says. At present about 15pc of Internet users are currently buying online with airline tickets being the most frequent online purchase. Amárach managing director Gerard O'Neill said the downgrading of forecasts was due to concern over the security of buying online and a lack of online offers which appeal to the wider consumer market. "Internet use is concentrated among young people who, for the most part, don't own credit cards and therefore cannot buy at the vast majority of websites," he said. "Older Internet users, especially 35-49-year-olds, are still dogged by security concerns and there are few online offerings that hold real appeal beyond small niche markets." Overall, he says, the future outlook for Ireland's online consumer market is good but not spectacular. 
