online
{  
    May 23 2013 03:04 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/problem-solver-not-taking-action-on-a-failing-branch-could-jeopardise-everything-29289608.html }
<strong>Q: </strong>I run a newsagents and have three branches in three different towns. One branch has been losing money for three years and no matter what I have done, I cannot turn this situation around, what should I do? During my Superquinn career, we always had a policy of supporting a weaker branch or one in an early stage of growth with better performing branches. That usually worked well and within a number of years, the branch with the performance problem was usually able to get back on its feet and become self-sufficient. That was fine for us as we always had a significant number of branches to support a small minority. In your case you say you have taken all the steps necessary and you have been doing this over a prolonged period. I really only see two options open to you. You could consider selling the branch, or perhaps even leasing it to one of the staff who is currently managing it for you, however, that may be a difficult challenge but is certainly worth considering. Reluctantly, the only other option open to you is to close the business and you will need to get expert advice on how to do this, as there are legal obligations you will have to meet. I know this is going to be very painful for you, especially in a business with only three shops, however, if you don't take action, you could well jeopardise the future of the whole business. I have read several definitions of strategy and the one that managed to stick in my mind most was "strategy is the art of attacking when you are strong and retreating when you are weak". This is a very practical and pragmatic definition and probably sums up your situation quite well. Despite all of your best efforts, this branch is not performing and you now need to put your energy into growing the parts of the business that are working. By strengthening the remaining two shops, you could well be in a position to open a new shop at a different location within a few years. Best wishes with the decision-making process. Q: Profits in my business have never been very strong. I am determined to solve this. What steps would you advise I take? You don't tell me the type of business you are working in so excuse me if I am somewhat general with my answer. We have all heard the saying "sales is vanity, profit is sanity". I think every business needs to keep a balance between running a good business for its customers and making a profit. Sometimes these two objectives can be at odds with each other, for example, if you embark on a programme of revamping your outlets to make a better shopping experience for customers, which in turn impacts on the profitability of the business. You will always find there are certain years where profitability isn't as high as others either from competitive pressures or strategic decisions you have made. The key line in your email suggests that profitability levels had never been correct in the business. Here are some simple things to think about. How good are you at buying the goods that come into your business? Have you an ongoing structured review process to keep costs at a minimum? Have you rigid controls at the back door and the front door to protect from shrinkage and theft? Have you the ability to analyse the figures to try and pinpoint those elements of the offer that are losing money and those making money? Is your pricing set at the correct level? If you can answer all of these, then you will be well on your way to fixing the problem. I was shocked recently to hear a business owner talking about the poor profit margins they had achieved at the end of the year. On further probing, I discovered they were only doing a stocktake once per year and were reliant on their accountant to tell them whether the business was profitable or not. You cannot run a business in that fashion. Depending on the complexity of the business, ideally you need transparency on profitability in shorter time frames. In Superquinn, I always insisted that we had fresh food margins on a weekly basis, as there were a significant number of variables that changed on a daily basis and could leave us unprofitable very quickly if we didn't manage the situation tightly. Q: I have a ladies' fashion shop which is trading quite well and a business colleague of mine recently suggested that I should look at going online with the business. What are your thoughts? The online forum for retailing is still evolving and to some degree the landscape is not entirely clear. Consumer acceptance in some categories of online retailing has resulted in a dramatic change in shopping behaviour, with consumer acceptance of buying books, certain types of clothing and music being very high. I have even heard from some traditional retailers that they regularly experience customers visiting their shop, trying on a garment, only for the customer to leave and order it online at a later point. Soul-destroying for the traditional retailer! Other categories haven't made the transition as easily to online sales and that is the part that is still evolving. One key question I would ask you to think about is why someone would shop online at your site. Is it that your clothing will be cheaper than elsewhere? Is it that the brands and labels you will sell won't be accessible anywhere else online? Is it that people will trust your online shop more than they would trust some of the more established ones? I have seen a rush recently among many small, independent traditional retailers to move online in what they believe will be a panacea to solve all their problems. The reality is that unless you have a well thought out online strategy, that has a potentially large and international customer base, you could be wasting your time. Like traditional retailing, online retailers need to act as destination sites for customers. They need to have a compelling reason for the consumer to visit again and again. If you decide there is a niche for your product range online, you have to accept that online retailing requires specialist skillsets to ensure that search optimisation is maximised and that your visibility online is significant. This will involve you enlisting the services of a really good online retail technical expert to help guide you on that journey. Irish Independent 
