online
{ Ciaran Brennan 
    November 27 2007 04:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/dot-com-christmas-26334771.html }
Ireland may be a laggard in broadband penetration but that hasn't stopped Irish consumers from embracing online shopping with open arms. And with less than a month left until Christmas, online shopping is set to get a major boost. In its annual survey of Christmas spending, professional services and accounting firm Deloitte found that more than half of respondents outlined their intention to buy on the internet. And with Irish households spending on average €1,431 on Christmas this year, an increase of 6.9pc on last year, a lot of money is going to be changing hands in cyberspace. Apart from the savings that can be made from purchasing from online retailers, consumers are flocking to the internet for greater product choice and to avoid crowded stores, according to Deloitte. While it may be fast, convenient and cheap, internet shopping is not without its pitfalls. The European Consumer Centre Network receives numerous complaints from dissatisfied consumers across Europe who have encountered problems or difficulties when shopping online. Internet shopping is covered by the European Directive on distance selling which also includes purchases made by e-mail, fax, telephone and mail order. Refund Distance selling involves communication between a supplier and a consumer where they are not in each other's physical presence. When you shop online you have the same rights as when you shop on the high street, says Rosaleen Quinlan, PR and marketing manager for the European Consumer Centre in Dublin. In other words: If you purchase goods that are not of satisfactory quality you may be entitled to a repair, replacement or refund, depending on the circumstances of the case. "In one sense you have more rights because you have the seven-day cooling off period as well," explains Ms Quinlan. "If you ordered something from an online site and it arrives and you decide you don't like it, there is nothing actually wrong with it, you have seven days to send it back and get a refund. "That is quite a strong assurance to have." But she cautions consumers that this does not apply to booking tickets such as flights or events. The European Consumer Centre has developed its 'Howard, the Online Shopping Assistant', an interactive online tool that is designed to make it easier for consumers to shop safely on the internet by establishing whether an internet site is trustworthy or not. Ms Quinlan advises consumers to use common sense and judgment when buying online. When using your credit card for online purchases it is advisable to first of all check to see if the website is secure, she says. Secure sites will have a padlock symbol on the bottom right hand corner. Before you agree to buy anything, you should ensure that you have been given specific information in a clear and comprehensible manner, such as the name and address of the supplier. "In the event of anything going wrong you know who you're dealing with," says Ms Quinlan. "If you can't get to speak to a person I would be a little bit nervous." Other information you're entitled to includes the main characteristics of the goods/service; the price including taxes and delivery costs and how payment is to be made; how the goods are to be delivered or how the service will be performed; and that a right to cancel exists. Where the goods are unavailable, the supplier must inform you and refund you any monies paid within 30 days. Online shopping can take its toll on your credit card, so consumers should check out the benefits to be gained from internet banking -- it allows people to take control over their own finances and allows them to control their spending. Being able to transfer money instantly and on a regular basis to your credit card account could help you to avoid hefty interest repayments after the Christmas festivities have ended. You can also check whether you have money in your account to meet some of the Yuletide outgoings or anticipate if you are going to go into an overdraft situation. The bottom line is when it comes to internet shopping, the usual warnings apply, says Ms Quinlan. If it looks or sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Patricia Hanna is proof that the internet is not just a young person's game. A year and half ago, the 71-year-old bought a laptop and signed up to AIB's internet banking. Patricia, who is disabled, found accessing her bank branch quite difficult and says internet banking has made huge difference in her life. "I don't have to go to the bank at all," she says. But it is more than just the convenience that she enjoys. Patricia says she is delighted with the control that online banking has given her in taking care of her finances and monitoring her transactions. "It's great, you can transfer money, here there and everywhere," she says. "I use it for putting credit on my mobile and a friend of mine, any time she's out of credit, I do it for her as well." She has also signed up to AIB's 'More Green' initiative and now receives e-statements rather than having statements posted out to her home. So far, Patricia says she hasn't used the internet for shopping online but she says she might do so in the future. "I might use it for going on holidays," she says. 
