online
{ Corina Gaffey 
    November 11 2014 05:40 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/home-garden/how-to-shop-online-like-a-seasoned-professional-30737280.html }
Electronics. Apart from not having to lugging them home, you can quickly browse through product specs in different tabs and compare and contrast. Be careful of ordering fragile electronics that could get damaged in delivery and make sure to buy of a reputable websites. Tech in general is of course very online shopping savvy - from Amazon to pixmania.ie, you can order most electronics and accessories online.   Insider TIP: Deals on steals: When shopping on some high-street stores, always do a quick search for coupons on google. You'll be surprised how often a 20% off is available. Flowers Sometimes it makes more sense to order certain things online, and flowers are something you can buy via websites 24/7 - perfect for forgotten occasions! So if you missed an important date, get clicking...   Handbags Unlike with shoes and clothes, you don't have to worry about a bag not fitting, so it's the perfect thing to buy online, new or previously loved. Websites like shopstyle or OPSH allow you to shop across various brands and department stores. Alter your search to price, colour and size for your perfect arm candy, and don't forget to try ebay and its ilk for some bargain accessories. Toys Navigating a toy shop can be tricky at the best at times, not to mention around this time of year, so it makes total sense to shop online. Avoid the fear of a sell-out-toy, screaming kids and crazy queues and check out pricespy.ie which finds you the best price and gives product reviews. Swimwear There's a fear with shopping online that pieces like bathing suits or bikinis may not fit, or will be difficult to return. But in reality you get to try it on in the comfort of your own home and avoid squeezing into tiny fitting rooms with harsh and unflattering lights. Just double check return policies before you click add to cart. and you're laughing. Cosmetics Nab a bargain at strawberry.net it's full of discounted fragrances, skincare and makeup. Sites like temptalia.com have a foundation gallery so you can compare products to find out what shade you would be. Beauty subscription sites like glossybox.ie can make waiting for the postman fun. Homewares and crafts It can be nerve-wracking to buy certain furniture items online as it's an expensive hassle to return so start off small with soft furnishings if in doubt. Do always take into account shipping plus the price of the furniture. However it still often works out cheaper, and you can get stuff online you can't get on these here shores. Try casa.com it's an one-stop shop for home decor with over 35,000 different brands in one place. KEEP SHOPPING With an universal shopping cart this makes shopping the web easy peasy. SHOPSAVVY Scan barcodes and get the best price online or in store. THE HUNT Tracks down items you’re coveting on your wish list. ETSY Buy crafts and products from all over the world, from jewellery to doggy costumes. PRICESPY Find out where to buy an item at the lowest price, online or in store. AMAZON The one-stop shop for electronics, books, music and more. As seasoned online shoppers we've picked up a few tips on the way, and we're the sharing kind... Join the club Join newsletters if you truly like the site-it's the only way to know about pre-sales, special friends-and-family deals and discounts. Create virtual wish lists Sites like shopbop.com allow you to create an account wish list and alert you when your items go on sale. Shopping Tuesday For some reason, Tuesday happens to be the universal day that ecommerce sites post new sales and update merchandise. Go compare Remember to compare same and similar items to ensure you getting the best bang for your buck. Check out shopstyle.com or pricespy.ie.   Irish Independent 
