online
{  
    October 20 2009 03:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/latest-news/new-frontiers-26575073.html }
NOT having to take time off work to go and queue at your local bank branch is one of the main reasons why people like online banking, but it seems there are a number of useful financial benefits too. In a recent survey of 1,000 adults commissioned by National Irish Bank, 65pc agreed that they were more likely to pay their bills on time because of online banking, while 63pc found that they can budget better as a result. Checking balance, paying bills and checking transaction history are the top three internet banking functions used by those surveyed. The same study also suggests that more than one third of Irish adults use online banking, with almost half of them doing so to avoid taking time off work to visit their local branch. The banks are keen to promote online banking services because it saves them money. As a result, the range of banking transactions that you can do online is steadily growing. For instance, National Irish Bank's revamped online banking service now allows customers to apply for personal products online without visiting a branch, such as eSaver, an online savings account, and the Personal Access current account product.  Future NIB customers should be able to apply for other current account packages and a number of other savings products online in the near future, a spokesman said. Banking by mobile phone is another growing area. Some banks, such as Permanent TSB and NIB, have text-messaging banking services, while others, such as AIB, are focusing on developing simplified versions of their online service for browsers running on mobile handsets. Figures on online banking published earlier this year by the Irish Banking Federation (IBF) and the Irish Payment Services Organisation (IPSO), showed that 2.2 million bank customers were registered for online banking by the end of 2008 -- an increase of more than 25pc on the previous year. However, these particular figures are somewhat meaningless, says Sean Jevens, head of e-channel development at AIB. For example, online banking "registration" will generally cover both phone and internet banking, but some customers will only use the phone service, he says. In other instances, registration is completed automatically as customers open certain account types, while some customers would be "double counted" as they hold accounts across multiple banks. However, he says there is still clear evidence that online banking is very popular, pointing to AIB's 600,000 active online banking users. Besides registrations, the IBF/IPSO figures show that there were over 30 million online payments made in 2008, an increase of over 30pc on 2007, while customers accessed their online balances 123 million times during the same period. "We continue to see logins and payment volumes outgrow new users, so there is clear evidence from the internet that users are logging in and making more payments online then they used to," says Mr Jevens. "We can see an increasing number of customers setting-up new third parties online and paying money across directly. "This is a clear option which would mimic a traditional cheque." However, for as long as cheques and cash remain in use, local bank branches will continue to be essential for many, even as their numbers decline. Despite the rise in security problems caused by online scams, frauds or 'phishing' emails, these are not putting users off online banking. So what are next frontiers for online banking? Will it soon be possible for customers to do their day-to-day banking entirely online if they wish? Speaking to an Oireachtas Finance Committee last month on the issue of "paperless banking", NIB's chief economist, Dr Ronnie O'Toole, called for consumer legislation to be updated so that banks can issue certain types of paperwork to electronic format instead.  Statements For example, banks are required by current legislation to send customers bank statements by post, even though sending them by email is "cheaper, faster, more environmentally friendly, and more secure", said Dr O'Toole. Similarly, Irish legislation should also be updated to allow credit agreements to be ratified by electronic signatures, he says. "Unfortunately, within the countries that Danske Bank (which owns NIB) operates, Ireland is the only country that does not yet allow electronic signatures for credit contracts," said Dr O'Toole. Irish Independent 
