online
{  
    February 17 2018 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/localnotes/new-internet-safety-guide-for-older-users-36585889.html }
A unique new Louth-produced internet safety guide aims to prevent older people becoming cyber victims and curb the fear many have of using the internet. The first-of-its kind booklet which encourages older people to surf online with confidence was launched this week at the County Library by Dragon's Den personality and age friendly advocate Gavin Duffy. The information guide was devised by the Louth Citizens Information Service and supported by the Louth Age Friendly Programme to increase the usage of IT by older people and create awareness of the pitfalls of being online. The comprehensive guide details all the dangers of the internet and advises on how to spot scams, protect passwords, buy safely online and become more cyber savvy. The guide also gives older people an insight on online problems facing teenagers and children, who are often in the care of their grandparents. The booklet, written by Dave Donnellon, was designed to take the fear out of using the internet and instil confidence in more older people to go online. 'The issue of the internet came up quite significantly during meetings of the Louth Older People's Forum which seeks to address and tackle issues facing the older generation,' said Louth Age Friendly County Co-ordinator Mary Deery. 'Many Government organisations have, or are in the process of going paperless and older people have to get more IT literate to cope with this and deal with the fear of using credit cards online. 'Applications for medical cards have now to be online and the new Government agenda is directing us all to do everything online. 'There are a lot of groups offering free IT training out there for all ages, which can be accessed freely. 'However, many older people still have no smart phones as they have a fear of using their credit cards online, thinking their account will be cleaned out. 'There's almost too much fear among older people of using the internet, while the younger generations don't even think about buying online. 'The Louth Citizen Information Service has stepped up to the plate with this guide to give the skills and safety tips to older people that they need to use to access the internet safely and confidently. 'The guide also includes advice for teenagers and kids. Older people are often custodians of grandchildren and look after them a lot of the time. 'It's good for them to know the dangers facing the younger generations and often it's the grandparents that children talk to easier if they do come under a negative influence online.' Gavin Duffy raised the point that Louth is one of the best-served counties in Ireland in broadband terms, and that one of the easiest ways to ease older people into internet use is via YouTube, which puts a world of memories at their fingertips. The guide addresses one of the main issues highlighted by older people - a fear of their bank accounts being scammed when online. 'This booklet was compiled after older people were constantly highlighting people being scammed online at the Age Friendly Forum,' said Marie Hayes, Louth Citizen Information Service Development Officer. 'Many don't use the internet, partly because of fear that they will become a victim. 'This guide deals with how to be safe online and it raises awareness and a better understanding of the internet.' 'This booklet is part of an ongoing collaboration with the CIS in tying in our services with each other,' said Amanda Branigan, Senior Executive Librarian in Louth County Library. 'Many elderly people, who don't have internet access, don't realise they can get online at the library for free.' The Argus 
