online
{  
    November 01 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/cutting-the-queues-with-the-click-of-a-mouse-26130545.html }
Irish banking is undergoing a revolution with the upsurge in Internet-friendly accounts. Jacqueline Sheils reports on how consumers and banks alike are reaping the benefits IT IS no coincidence that the reported upsurge in lunchtime trade in sandwich bars and restaurants throughout the country started the same day that online banking was launched. The days of spending your precious lunch hour standing in line behind a lady setting up direct debits for her grandchildren's pocket money has passed. It is estimated that by the end of next year, 250,000 bank customers will be checking their balances, transferring money and customising statements from their workplace or the comfort of their home. Following the success of telephone banking launched back in 1993 online banking has, for the past two years, been the next step in an attempt to drag banking and bankers, renowned for conservatism and secrecy, into the age of technology. With bank managers rating only second behind dentists in their ability to terrify, the demand to get online has at times overloaded the system. The Irish have taken well to being their own bank managers, so much so that Bank Of Ireland had trouble keeping up with requests from customers wishing to gain access to 24 hour a day banking. ``We must admit that the system did not cope with the demand,'' says Dermot Nolan, Sales and Marketing Manager of E-Business at BoI. ``There was a backlog, but that is being cleared up. In the very near future, anyone opening an account will have the opportunity to bank online.'' Allied Irish Bank presently has 20,000 customers banking online, equivalent to Barclays Bank market-leading proportions in the UK. By the end of this year five percent of all Irish bank customers will be banking online, twice the European average. Most Irish banks have taken notice of this trend and have set the wheels in motion to get online by at least the middle of next year. Many of the smaller building societies and credit unions are waiting until after the New Year and any potential Y2k problems before putting their toes in the technological pool. Ulster Bank, on the other hand, is pressing ahead and launches their online banking this month after two years' development. ``When it comes to providing banking online, it was a case of having to. Our customers want the facility, it gives them the tools to take control, ask questions. We could have introduced the service a lot earlier but we wanted something different and up to date,'' explains Jonathan Byrne, Head Of Business eCommerce. It is further development in this area that will increase the usage of online banking, according to David Roberts at AIB. Transferring money or paying bills is only the tip of the iceberg, with the real test of banking capabilities just over the horizon. ``In the very near future, we will have the technology to do almost anything the customer wants with regard to taking control of their accounts. You can now view your bank details and balance on the screen of your mobile phone. The opportunities are limitless. Legislation has to keep up with developments,'' says Roberts. Unfortunately it is legislation that is limiting much of the progress at the moment particularly delays in sorting out how to handle digital signatures, which would have the same force in law as a written signature. Concerns about money laundering and disposal of criminal assets are also causing headaches for the lawmakers. But compared to many European countries, we are already making strides in clearing the red tape restricting the growth of online banking, according to Caspar Bowden, Director of the Foundation for Information Policy Research. ``Electronic business can trade from anywhere in the world. Threatening a mountain of red tape will cause e-business to move to places with a more supportive climate such as Ireland or Canada,'' he says. Although we have moved away from the days when life savings were kept under the mattress, there are a large percentage of people that feel more secure letting the bank do the banking, rather than themselves. ``We will never get to the day when banks are out of date,'' claims AIB's Roberts. ``People need human contact. Certainly for some people, the convenience of online is exactly what suits their lifestyle. For others, they need to physically pay their bills, write the cheque.'' The need for human contact goes hand in hand with the reassurance that the system is secure and that an eager 10-year-old can't reroute your wages to his pocket money account. ``Security is the fundamental priority in any bank. Without total belief in the security people simply will not invest,'' says Ulster Bank's Jonathan Byrne. ``We are 100 percent happy with our security. We use Baltimore security simply for its professionalism and reputation. Customers do not have to worry about the system being secure. It is.'' THERE seems little threat to the future of online banking for Irish banks, except that posed by the spread of the larger European and UK banks into the Irish market. Here too, our local banks are using technology to come up with an anytime, anyplace, anywhere solution to banking and hopefully maintain market share. ``Our first priority is to provide services online that meet the customer's needs. This first phase for Ulster Bank is just introductory,'' explains Byrne. ``Eventually, our customers may have their own lifestyle websites where the bank details show up every time they log on, next to the weather or sports result. This may suit some people, others may only want to look at bank details once a week. It's tailoring to each customer's needs.'' Inevitably, online banking is good for the banks themselves keeping customers out of busy branches means fewer counter staff and a reduction in costs.  But for once, something that's good for the bank ends up being good for the customer as well. 
