online
{ Mary O'Donnell 
    November 21 2007 04:52 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/going-to-college-applying-early-to-cao-26333410.html }
Q: I am in Sixth Year, and am still thinking about what to do next year. Some of my class mates have already applied to CAO for autumn 2008. Is there any benefit in applying so early, particularly if you are not sure of your course choices? A: The benefits of applying early to CAO are that it costs applicants less money and less hassle. There is a 90-day period during which normal application can be made to CAO, from November 1 to February 1. Even after this date, it is possible to make a late application to most courses up to May 1 for a higher fee. Online application is by far the most popular method of application. It is simple and almost foolproof; about 85% of applicants opt for it. Up to this year, the fee for online application has always been less expensive than for the paper-application method, but CAO has adopted a slightly different approach for 2008. The application fee for 2008 is €45, whether online or paper. However, online applicants are entitled to a €10 discount (or a fee of €35) if they apply before January 20, 2008. Some 2007 applicants who left their online application until the last days of January had an anxious time waiting to get through online. CAO is keen to avoid such a situation again, hence the incentive of the €10 discount to encourage applicants not to leave it to the last week. CAO anticipates a higher percentage of online applications every year. CAO's figures showed that 51,500 online applications were made by February 1, 2007. CAO applications are usually made at a steady pace throughout January, but in 2007 the number of applications was slightly lower than in 2006. By January 24, 2007, the online applications totaled around 18,800. During the following week, a further 32,000 or so online applications were processed. The two busiest days were January 30 and 31. CAO processed 7,276 and 7,877 online applications, respectively. It was on these two days that applicants experienced delays getting online. Q If I do apply early, am I confined to the courses I apply for at the time of application? A No. When applicants start their online application, giving their personal details and payment details, they will be issued with their application number immediately. Once online applicants get their application number, they will have the flexibility to make changes to their details up to the end of January after submitting their application. If applicants change their mind between February 5 and March 1, there is a €10 charge. There is no charge for the use of the change of mind facility during the normal change of mind period, from early May to July 1. - Tipperary Institute, information sessions for mature students, tonight (in Clonmel) and tomorrow (in Thurles). - Institute of Art, Design and Technology, Dun Laoghaire, Co Dublin. Open days on Friday and Saturday. - NUI Maynooth, annual open days on Friday and Saturday. - NUI Maynooth new programmes include two new law degrees: Business and Law, and Law & Arts, which it launched earlier this week. St Patrick's College, Pontifical University, Maynooth, also hosts open days next Friday and Saturday. 
