online
{  
    October 30 2008 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/just-click-your-fingers-and-indulge-yourself-online-26488293.html }
Shopping became Ireland's new religion, it was suggested at the height of the boom. If so, many of us are feeling spiritually bereft at the moment, as well as broke. The internet is one possible source of consolation. Online shopping is a more sedate affair. It lacks the instant fix of swinging a tasteful shopping bag along the street. There are few opportunities for the spontaneous purchase, the item you never wanted until you saw it one day in a shop. And browsing the internet is just not as much fun as strolling around your favourite store. But in these frugal times, online shopping is a way of communing with our one-time religion without the potential expense of spending money. Think of it as a spiritual training ground before the important ritual of handing hard cash over to anyone. Ireland isn't particularly well served when it comes to online shopping. Many overseas sites will not deliver here. But there are still interesting browsing opportunities, which at the very least give you a price point for something you can still buy in the real world. Armchair (www.armchair.ie) is a good starting point. It only lists sites that actively sell into the Irish market. This includes Irish-owned sites but also popular overseas sites. Anyone planning to buy electronic goods should check out the online shops listed here, even to get an idea of prices and the kind of deals on offer before going shopping in the real world. New 'shopping tips' sites sprout by the day on the internet but most relate to the UK or US markets. One Irish site worth keeping an eye on, however, is www.shopping.blogs.ie. It gives the discount codes for promotions in Irish online shops. There's more information about which stores deliver here and money saving hints. For example, instead of paying the delivery charge on purchases at Next's online store, the product can be shipped to your local store free of charge. There's also a warning about an online sales scam at a well-known electronic auction site. One of the longest established Irish shopping portals, Buy4now (www.buy4.now.com) features well known Irish brands. A visit to the Discount Electrical section is a good way of pricing up major electrical buys such as fridges or washing machines. Another good site is Simply Be (www.simplybe.ie), which sells plus-size women's clothes. UK lingerie site Figleaves (www.figleaves.com) delivers to Ireland. It features plenty of good French labels along with better-known brands. There's even a special 'greenleaves' section. Supermarket shopping has become more complicated in these frugal times. A good recessionista must visit at least two in search of the best value toilet rolls. Superquinn (www.superquinn.ie) and Tesco (www.tesco.ie) offer online shopping. Lidl's site (www.lidl.ie) gives up-to-the- minute details of the latest offers in store including food, home-ware and small electrical goods. In the run-up to Christmas, Oxfam Ireland's Fair Trade online shop is worth a visit at www.oxfam irelandshop.com. As well as Christmas cards it's selling a range of Fair Trade food gifts -- luxury chocolate products, for example. On-line shopping is not necessarily cheaper than real-life shopping. But there's plenty of information to be garnered by online browsing. And crucially, there's far less danger of buying something you really don't want. If you decide to make a purchase, buy from a reputable site. If you feel uncomfortable typing your credit card into an online form, pick up the phone and talk directly to the seller. What the Internet does best is provide information. Critically for the canny shopper, it provides the latest price information. Don't go shopping without it. Carissa Casey 
