online
{ Donal Lynch 
    July 14 2013 03:07 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/donal-lynch-finding-love-online-is-fast-becoming-the-new-normal-29418468.html }
'I believe in online dating", wrote the American memoirist Augusten Burroughs. "And you need belief; an online dating profile is like a cross between a prayer and a letter to Santa." Burroughs wrote those words in 2003 and in the 10 years since then the online dating market has exploded. In the US, the internet is now the second most common way of meeting a partner – after meeting through friends – and in Ireland thousands of people have widened their search to include the web. The results have been mixed; from acrimony to matrimony the internet has thrown up love and horror. Last summer it was reported that a Belfast woman was planning to marry a man from Oklahoma whom she had never met in person. There have been thousands of tales of success and frustration. Just as television allowed us to bring people we would never allow in our homes into our living rooms, so the internet has enabled us to leap over the historical obstacles to dating (geography, time, your father or mother perched in the hallway with a shotgun across the lap and a look that says 'no one is good enough for my child'). The explosion of the online dating industry has come about, according to a recent study by psychologists at the University of Rochester in the US, because we now regard other methods of meeting people as "grossly inefficient". "The internet holds great promise for helping adults form healthy and supportive romantic partnerships, and those relationships are the best predictors of emotional and physical health," said the study's authors. 'it's your money' Business, Page 7 In Ireland, there are other, more specific factors in the growth of internet dating. While once we could rely on family and social structures to help us find mates, we now have more autonomy in our romantic lives than ever before. The last census also revealed that in the previous decade women started to outnumber men in the State. They tend to have a higher level of education and earn more than the men they are looking for. The internet has been a boon for older people who exist on the fringes of the dating market – Nuala O'Faolain wrote of meeting her American partner online while in her 60s. Perhaps most significantly of all, there are more divorced and single people living in Ireland than at any other point in the country's history. Little wonder that Ireland is often described as a "key market" for the myriad online dating sites that have gained a foothold here – 1,400 at last count – and that most websites, which offer information on their membership, claim a higher proportion of women than men use them. While users of these sites frequently grapple with shamelessly photoshopped pictures, inaccurate vital statistics and pushy first dates (a Donegal woman sued a dating website in 2011, claiming, among other things, that a peck on the cheek had resulted in a tongue being stuck down her throat – her case was dismissed), the sites themselves have struggled against the stigma around online dating. Many people – especially women – come to internet dating with the same mindset that Groucho Marx had when he declared he would never want to be in a club that would have someone like him as a member. "The problem," one female online dater told me, "is that it's artificial. You are already judging the man based on the fact that he's desperate enough to go online dating. It's a double standard but it's true I'm afraid." "I've had divorced people tell me they would never want another divorced person because they think divorced people come with too much baggage," says Rena Maycock, one of the directors of the Dawson Street-based Intro Matchmaking. "We sometimes have to point out to people that they're not helping themselves by thinking like that." Sigmund Freud once observed that infants were as likely to cry from too much as too little choice. The online dating world can appear like a vanishing horizon of eternal options. There is always someone better out there, or so it appears. In his 2003 book Liquid Love, Leeds-based sociologist Zygmunt Bauman wrote that what he called 'liquid moderns' cannot commit to relationships and have few family ties. The most popular websites promise to solve this problem but are problematic in that they tend to be driven by advertising rather than subscription fees. This means that their primary goal is to increase traffic on the website, and to keep you coming back for more, not to introduce you to the man or woman of your dreams. Some are disastrously difficult to use and make only half-hearted attempts to keep things local. Try calling It's Just Lunch's Irish website and you will be transferred to a voicemail in Louisville, Kentucky; their Irish website says that a great place to meet people is "baseball games". Perhaps unsurprisingly, the trend in recent years has been toward 'offline' internet dating, a modern throwback to the country matchmakers of yore. Two Dublin based agencies – Maycock's Intro Matchmaking and David Merren's TopMatch – sift through and vet potential matches for their clients. Meetings are arranged without any direct contact between daters at the initial stages. Merren, somewhat hopefully, refers to this type of dating as 'the new pub culture' but claims to have introduced three couples who went on to get married as well as dealing with "one of the richest women in Ireland". Maycock had her own disastrous experience with online dating when some years ago she arrived in a pub off Grafton Street to meet a man who said online he was 6f tall and turned out to be only 5ft 8in. Maycock, who is 5ft 10in, felt there had to be a better way. Together with Feargal Harrington she founded Intro Matchmaking. The dates they organise are entirely 'blind' – candidates do not even see a photograph – and Maycock and Harrington usually suggest dinner to start with. "It's too easy to gulp down a cappuccino," Maycock says. "With dinner there is a little bit more of an investment. You have to get to know the person a bit." Both Merren and Maycock say that a big part of their process is helping people to temper their expectations. "They can pick one or two things that are absolutely important but you can't be dogmatic about everything on your fantasy list," Maycock says, sounding a lot like a mother being realistic with her children about Santa's limited resources. "I think this kind of dating is here to stay though. It's a fact of modern life now." www.topmatch.ie www.intro.ie Irish Independent 
