online
{ Aideen Sheehan 
    October 28 2014 01:17 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/one-screen-no-longer-enough-for-plugged-in-consumers-30697886.html }
IRISH people are among the most digitally connected in the world, owning an average of three online devices each. A new 'consumer barometer' from Google, which surveyed 150,000 people in 46 countries, found that Irish people are keen 'multi-screeners', meaning we like to surf the net and watch TV at the same time. In fact we're the sixth most likely in the world to do this - with women outnumbering men on the online multi-tasking front. The smartphone has now taken over our lives, with 65pc of us relying on it as an alarm, and 58pc depending on it for a camera, while it's also the go-to place for many to check the weather, news or listen to music. The Google survey also found that 23pc of Irish people researching a recent online purchase used their smartphone to do so, and 21pc relied solely on online research before buying, which was ahead of the European average. Google Ireland head of sales Cera Ward said that their new research showed Irish consumers were unforgiving of glitchy websites. "If issues are encountered while accessing websites via a smartphone, 25pc will find another site that works better rather than trying on another device" she said. This shows that Irish businesses could lose a quarter of potential online buyers if they don't have good mobile sites. Infant products retailer Kealy's recently sought to address this by making it easier for new parents to make purchases on their mobiles - as that's where they surf while up late at night with their babies, Google said. Flights and hotels remain by far the most popular online purchases for over three quarters of Irish consumers. These were followed by clothes and shoes, car insurance, cinema tickets and TV sets, but only 4pc of consumers had bought groceries recently online. Google plans to update the survey data twice yearly. IRISH people are among the most digitally connected in the world, owning an average of three online devices each. A new 'consumer barometer' from Google, which surveyed 150,000 people in 46 countries, found that Irish people are keen 'multi-screeners', meaning we like to surf the net and watch TV at the same time. In fact we're the sixth most likely in the world to do this - with women outnumbering men on the online multi-tasking front. The smartphone has now taken over our lives, with 65pc of us relying on it as an alarm, and 58pc depending on it for a camera, while it's also the go-to place for many to check the weather, news or listen to music. The Google survey also found that 23pc of Irish people researching a recent online purchase used their smartphone to do so, and 21pc relied solely on online research before buying, which was ahead of the European average. Google Ireland head of sales Cera Ward said that their new research showed Irish consumers were unforgiving of glitchy websites. "If issues are encountered while accessing websites via a smartphone, 25pc will find another site that works better rather than trying on another device" she said. This shows that Irish businesses could lose a quarter of potential online buyers if they don't have good mobile sites. Infant products retailer Kealy's recently sought to address this by making it easier for new parents to make purchases on their mobiles - as that's where they surf while up late at night with their babies, Google said. Flights and hotels remain by far the most popular online purchases for over three quarters of Irish consumers. These were followed by clothes and shoes, car insurance, cinema tickets and TV sets, but only 4pc of consumers had bought groceries recently online. Google plans to update the survey data twice yearly. Irish Independent 
