online
{  
    September 05 2012 03:19 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/style/sex-relationships/sponsored-feature-is-there-still-a-stigma-attached-to-online-dating-26894815.html }
Ever lied about where you met your date? Called a friend desperate for joining an online dating agency? Or have you simply turned your nose up at online dating, dismissing it as a last resort? Many people seem to think that going online to find a date means that you've exhausted all other possibilities and are therefore desperate; a declaration that you can't meet anyone 'in the real world'. However, with online dating now the third most popular way to meet a potential partner, there’s a lot to be said for logging on to find love.  In an era of social networking Nowadays, the internet, the way we communicate, and online dating have become far more sophisticated than could ever have been predicted a mere decade ago. No longer a seedy corner of the internet - where people used chat rooms to meet other singlesand the likes of Facebook and Twitter weren’t around - online dating has now come of age. Society has moved on from the old idea that the only way of meeting a new partner is through a friend, family member or in your local village and digital romance has become just as commonplace as shopping, socializing and banking online.  So what are the benefits? It’s accessible:In a world where we find it hard enough to juggle our jobs, our social lives, seeing our families and still squeezing in some ‘me’ time, it can often be hard to have the energy to get yourself out there and meet new people. Online dating allows you to find browse and connect with singles anytime, anywhere. It’s safe: Online dating allows you to find and connect with singles safely and securely. So instead of meeting singles in a chat room or accepting a friend request on a social networking site from someone you don’t know, you can build up a rapport with someone in a controlled, safe environment. It casts your net wider:In the past people have met their partners through work, at a local bar or through friends or family. However, if you’ve tried all of these options and not really got anywhere online dating is the perfect way to meet new people. The truth is online dating is no different from any other conventional way of meeting a prospective partner. So if you’re in the market for a little love why not give it a go with the help of 
The Meeting Point – the online dating service bringing people together.  Meet chat and connect with singles in your area – visit 
  www.themeetingpoint.ie today. 
