online
{ Brendan O'Connor 
    October 18 2014 08:51 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/brendan-oconnor/you-just-cant-beat-the-old-bricks-and-mortar-30674830.html }
Retail is living in fear of e-tail. As battered local shops in Ireland try to get back on their feet after years of no consumer confidence and cautious spending, they are now starting to worry that what they experienced over the last six or seven years was not totally down to recession. They worry now that some of the dip in sales was actually due to something more permanent, a move online by shoppers. Indeed, many high street shops in Ireland were beginning to worry that they were in danger of becoming little more than venues for "showrooming", whereby people come in and try on clothes or check out appliances, enjoying the personal service and the touch and the feel of goods, only to head off and then buy them cheaper online. Many shops are in a panic to rush online now, trying to follow their customers. But interestingly, there is a rush in the opposite direction now too, as online retailers gradually realise that they will never replace real shops, that people will always want to enjoy shopping as a more social, tactile experience, rather than just sitting in front of a screen in the evening. So don't believe the hype. In retail, bricks and mortar are where it's at right now. In fact, bricks and mortar are so where it's at that even Amazon - allegedly the nemesis of the local HMV and Waterstones - seems to have decided that it would like some quaint, old-fashioned shops. The online behemoth became the latest big online retailer to venture into bricks and mortar last week, when plans were unveiled to open a shop on West 34th Street in New York. And Amazon isn't the only household name to decide to move from clicks to bricks - eBay is partnering up with local shops to produce a more hybrid business model, with Steve Yankovich of eBay pointing out, "Humans have five senses and shopping online only engages one of them." The company is probably conscious too that people tend to spend more in physical shops, and that they spend most of all when they have a choice of channels through which to engage with a retailer. Another reason Amazon could be considering this move from clicks to bricks is because Amazon needs to start showing some decent profits at some stage, and maybe to do that it needs to start accessing the mainstream shopper. People don't realise this, but 94pc of all shopping in America is still done in physical shops. That means that as an online outlet, Amazon is really only a player in 6pc of the market. Even though Amazon makes up 15pc of all e-commerce sales in the US, that still makes it a minnow next to the big traditional retailers, with less than 1pc of the total retail market. In another odd twist, Amazon's dominance of its own online market is being eaten away at by physical shops who are hitting back by improving their online channels. And by the way, those figures are correct. In America, where they are generally a few years ahead of us in matters technological, online shopping, though growing, still only makes up 6pc of the market. Here's a few interesting stats on US retail from The Wall Street Journal. Just 1pc of food and alcohol is bought online; 3pc of health and beauty products are bought online. Just 7pc of furniture is bought online. Online penetration is probably at its highest in areas like fashion, but still, just 11pc of clothing is bought online. As you can imagine a lot of books, magazine, music and videos are bought online, but the figure is still less than 20pc. So, over four-fifths of even these commodities are still bought in physical shops. Admittedly, a quarter of all computers and electronics are bought online. But Apple stores are still among the most profitable retail outlets in the world, booking more sales in dollars per square foot than the likes of Tiffany & Co and Michael Kors. Which could be another reason why Jeff Bezos at Amazon wants in on traditional shops. Everybody knows exactly what an Apple product looks like and how it works before they buy it. Apple devices are the one thing you could buy on the internet with certainty. And many people do. But somehow, people like to buy Apple devices at Apple stores. They like the experience, the ritual of going to the store. They like to touch and fool around with the products. They even like to go and queue up to buy new devices the minute they come out. Apple stores are almost an event in themselves. Amazon's recent venture into phones, the Fire, was a disaster. Perhaps Amazon is thinking that people might have learnt to love the Fire phone a little bit more if they could have come in to a shop and touched it and played with it. Apparently Amazon's new shop may act as a showcase for products like Kindles and so on, but will also be a point where customers can pick up or return online orders. Bizarrely, what it seems to amount to is that Amazon has realised that online shopping, the height of modern convenience, is actually not very convenient, and that having an actual shop makes things more convenient for shoppers. And funnily enough, it makes things more convenient for Amazon too. Because the other big inconvenience of online shopping, as we all know, is the whole delivery business. Especially when you live on a little rock like Ireland. While there is a certain buzz in the package arriving a week after you ordered it, it doesn't really compare with buying something in a shop and bringing it home. You also have all the worry about where you should get your goods delivered to, will you be there when the courier comes and what if you miss the post and then have to go to the sorting office with the little ticket to collect the goods? And then there's the whole, 'Oh God, what if I have to return it', and all that hassle and expense of repackaging and posting. Amazon is clearly trying to make some of that easier by having pick-up and drop-off facilities. But Amazon is also trying to make things easier on itself. Amazon, apparently, is the largest shipper of air in the world. As in, Amazon ships a lot of air in a lot of bulky parcels to a lot of people at enormous expense. This is due to complications in the kinds of combinations in which people order goods, which can be random and unpredictable. If you think getting deliveries is expensive and messy for you, imagine how expensive and messy it is for the likes of Amazon, where people can buy DVDs, stuffed toys and household goods all in one order to avail of Amazon Prime free shipping. The fact that this stuff comes from centralised depots, with all the distance and thus cost that this implies, can tend to leave Amazon at a distinct disadvantage to local shops in terms of convenience. Especially given the raft of start- ups now that facilitate same-day local deliveries from local shops. Basically, a new model is developing whereby you order something online and a courier picks it up at a local shop and delivers it straight to your house that day. Amazon does not generally offer this kind of instant gratification. And instant gratification, when you think of it, is central to the shopping experience for most of us. We buy on impulse often, and we enjoy the thrill of getting the item there and then, an item we might not buy if we thought about it too much. Indeed, Amazon doesn't really do impulse very well either. While it may point you to related products, it has nothing to compare with sweets at the checkout, or an enthusiastic sales person telling you that you just have to get those shoes you only tried on to see how the jeans you bought look with shoes. Interestingly, big online retailers aren't the only ones going local. Walmart, long blamed for killing off local shops in the US, is now trying to create smaller local shops of its own. In Germany, there's been a huge swing away from huge supermarkets and back to the Tante-Emma-Laden, the local Mom and Pop stores, and France, too, is seeing the same move. It seems in a way that having tasted the anonymous future of shopping, more and more people are craving the connectedness and authenticity and indeed, the convenience of local shops. So maybe the Irish high street isn't dead yet. Let's make it bricks and mortar this Christmas. Sunday Independent 
