online
{ Jane Suiter 
    December 09 2007 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/lure-and-lies-of-online-buys-26337529.html }
It's like a throwback to the Seventies. "Buy Irish," cry the high street retailers and business lobby groups. Yet more and more of us are doing our shopping online, often from overseas retailers. In a survey of Christmas spending plans, accounting firm Deloitte found that more than half of respondents plan to buy some of their presents over the internet. Given that the average Irish household will spend around €1,400 this year, that is a lot of money that will change hands over the net. We are all lured by the sell that the perfect present is just a click away, while being constantly reassured by surveys that online shopping is in fact cheaper and hassle free. But is this the case? There is certainly many a horror story. From retailers that take your order only to tell you days before the big event that it is not in stock to buying from web pictures which rarely tell the full story. But even if you are very sure of the product you are buying and check out the credentials of the website with the European consumer agency there are still many pitfalls to beware. The European Consumer Centre Network receives numerous complaints from dissatisfied customers who have encountered problems when shopping online. The most common rip off is outrageous postal cost. The vast majority of online sites are based outside of Ireland and those that charge reasonable postage here appear few and far between. It can also be a nightmare to find the perfect gift online only to find out at the end of the order process that the site does not deliver to Ireland. One person recently ordered ahead to get a piece of equipment from the US for $30, ended up paying $110 in postage, and was charged €32 in VAT and customs charges when the parcel eventually arrived. But even major UK sites such as eBay and Amazon can make you pay dearly for postage. Many are lured by the pop-up on Amazon that promises free delivery -- and then find out it is available only to UK addresses. And to make matters worse, the site has ceased sending toys to Ireland, perhaps on the back of the massive postage charges. Of course, some items are more suitable for online shopping than others. CDs, DVDs and games are among the most popular online items. However, even here the savings may not be what you were expecting. For example, in Virgin Megastore one of the best selling CDs is Shayne Ward's Breathless at €17.99. On the popular website www.cdworld.ie it is the same price but you will also pay €1.50 postage. It is slightly cheaper on Amazon but after converting from sterling the savings are less than €1. The difference is even more marked for one of the most popular games, Assassin's Creed on either PS3 or Xbox. In Virgin it will set you back €55, where cdworld.ie charges €69.99 plus €1.50 postage. At Amazon it will set you back €65.50 but they warn it is not likely to arrive before Christmas. Another area often touted as perfect for online shopping is technology. After all, you can do your research and order exactly what you want. However, the stories of only receiving instructions in French or, probably worse, Portuguese or even Japanese are legendary. Others have experienced problems with the necessary cables and some have even found that the piece of equipment they have just bought is only suitable for use in the US or the Far East. Most online sites do allow returns but this can be a huge hassle. One way around it is to try and favour Irish retailers. That way you don't have to lug your gifts home but if there is a problem with something there is a bricks and mortar store to bring it back to. Of course, the one time that online shopping comes into its own is if you do not have the time to trawl around the shops. With city centre car parks already full by mid-morning most days bringing your pressies home on public transport can also seem like a bit of a chore. One answer may be www.armchair.ie, which says it only lists sites that actively sell to Ireland. It says that Irish businesses are favoured but many international ones are listed too. It also ranks sites based on their popularity, which should give some measure of comfort. You should also check out the European Consumer Centre's "Howard, the Online Shopping Assistant", an interactive tool which will let you know whether a site is trustworthy or not. Also, remember that secure sites have a padlock symbol in the bottom right-hand corner. However, after the festive season the net could come into its own. If you have a bit of time on your hands then online could be the way to get rid of those unwanted Christmas gifts. Simply put them up on eBay and you may well find that your tat is another man's treasure. The only hassle is going to the post office to send it off. 
