online
{ Tanya Sweeney 
    November 25 2014 05:07 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/style/sex-relationships/online-dating-guru-christian-rudder-reveals-his-relationship-secrets-30774197.html }
When it comes to the mysterious swamp of online dating, experts the world over have strived for clarity and code-cracking. We've long known that it's an imprecise science… but when it came to unlocking the secrets of online dating, one man realised that he was sitting on many of the answers all along. As one of the founders of OkCupid, Christian Rudder has headed up the site's analytics team since 2009, and as such, has been amassing reams of data on the site's some 30 million worldwide users. His findings make up the book Dataclysm: Who We Are (When We Think No One's Looking)… and predictably, it makes for rather arresting reading. The book - a divine marriage of matters of the heart and cold, hard science - arose out of a blog that Rudder wrote on the OkCupid site. The first thing he realised was that no matter how people think they're presenting themselves online, the findings don't lie about what we're really like. 
Close
 Christian Rudder / "This is how people are acting out in the wild, so to speak," he explains. "People are always wondering about the veracity of the data on the site, but dating, both offline and on, is full of puffery and exaggeration. But this is about exploring what they're doing, rather than what they claim they do. Your preferences on OkCupid tell us what you find sexy - and your reaction to the strangers the site offers up tells us how you judge people. I mostly found what I (and probably you) have always known: that people are gentle, mean, stupid, lusty, lonely, kind, foolish, shrewd, shallow, and endlessly complex." One of the most immediately intriguing findings from Rudder's data is both men and women's approach to ageing (look away now if you're a woman over 22). While women consistently tend to find similarly aged men attractive the older they get (21-year-old women, for instance like 23-year-old men, while 40-year-old women prefer 38-year-old men), men tend to prefer women in their early 20s, even as they hurtle towards their 50s (a 21-year-old man finds 20 to be the optimum age of attractiveness… and so does a 47-year-old). In Dataclysm, Rudder writes of this discrepancy: "You could say they're like two ships passing in the night, but that's not quite right. The men do seem at sea, pulled to some receding horizon. But in my mind, I see the women still on solid ground, ashore, just watching them disappear." "Generally, models are all 18, 19 or 20, and many famous actresses are young, so it's hardly an earth-shattering secret that men like younger women," muses Rudder. "At the same time, it's kind of shocking to see it with that clarity. This data is based on men voting on a picture, but when it comes to men sending an actual message to someone, they tend to like the youngest acceptable age for them," says Rudder. Elsewhere, Rudder waded through 3.2 billion words of profile text in a bid to see how people describe themselves in their profiles. Breaking the data into ethnic groups, he found that white men used the words 'blue eyes', 'blonde hair' and 'hunting and fishing' the most, while white women mentioned 'blue eyes', 'blonde hair' and 'love to be outside'. Maybe men and women are from the same planet after all. And in news that should come as no surprise to anyone, Rudder also found that people on OkCupid still gravitated to the best-looking people on the site (a '10' can receive up to four times as many messages as a perceived '8' or '9'). What's more, Rudder found that on the job-search site ShiftGig, attractive women receive exponentially more interview requests than their less attractive counterparts. In a word, these women looking for work on ShiftGig are treated in much the same way as they are on OkCupid. Of course, the big question is this: knowing what he now does, has Rudder become any more cynical about online dating? "I guess I'm more cynical and enlightened in the same way that bartenders have a cynical eye about dating because they've just seen guy after guy hit on woman after woman," he laughs. "But on the whole, this (crunching data) is one of my favourite parts about my job." After graduating from Harvard, Rudder and three other maths graduates spotted a gap in the online dating market in 2003, realising that a more 'scientific' approach to dating could be the secret ingredient that the industry was missing. "When we founded the site, we felt at the time that online dating was a little naïve," he explains. "It was like, 'this girl is in New York, you're in New York, you're both 25, so you're a match'. What we did wasn't necessarily all that more complicated, but it made things more ordered. It's not like we solved the mystery of finding love or anything… we just had users add more information about themselves." When pressed for a hard and fast rule on how to successfully navigate the quagmire of online dating, Rudder admits that he's never been a 'fan of offering tips'. "If I've learned anything, it's that people are idiosyncratic," he notes. "My only bit of advice that I would offer, especially in online dating, is to resist the temptation to grossly misrepresent yourself, like taking a picture of yourself where you look thin, or uploading a picture in which you are younger. Unfortunately, the industry has gotten more like that." Facebook, Twitter, Tinder and Snapchat barely existed when OKCupid went live in 2004. What does Rudder think that the online dating scene will hold for the next generation of single hopefuls? "That's the big question I'm paid to think about," he replies. "It's hard to tell. On the one hand, sex and love are eternal needs. But I predict that a time will come where people realise that they won't have to broadcast crap to their friends every day, like what they had for breakfast. (Online dating as we know it) might not exist in five year's time. "I think dating sites need to adapt to tiny screens and mobiles, because that's where people are looking for this stuff now. The platforms for finding someone will be very different… but part of me wants to think that the basics of online dating will pretty much stay the same." Dataclysm: Who We Are (When We Think No One's Looking) is out now via Fourth Estate. Irish Independent 
