online
{  
    January 24 2012 01:37 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/technology/maximise-your-online-roi-at-iab-connect-2012-26814431.html }
200 delegates representing the key stakeholders in the Irish online advertising industry attended IAB Ireland’s inaugural conference, IAB Connect last year. Given the very positive feedback for Connect 2011 it is anticipated that tickets for IAB Connect 2012 will sell out very quickly. Connect is the only annual conference in Ireland with a focus purely on Online Advertising. This year’s theme addresses brand’s major focus for 2012: How best to maximise online ROI? Keynote speaker, Kamal Bherwani will share how PRISA, one of the worlds largest media groups with a presence in 22 countries reaching over 50 million users has embraced digital and is now showing a return for their digital investment. Amárach Research in collaboration with Aegis Media will present a new research showing how TV and Online Advertising work better together. Minister Pat Rabbitte will address the conference on the topic of Regulation and Consumer privacy and the importance of the balance between Regulation around privacy and the Digital Economy. Sharon Walsh of Heineken, Ireland will share their brand’s experience of online advertising, presenting a casestudy on their brand learnings and how they maximise their online return on investment. Following on from our engaging dragon’s den format last year, we will this year showcase the best Online Innovations from a selection of publishers in our Market. Representatives from leading digital advertising agencies will act as dragons and interrogate the presenters. Conference delegates will vote for their favourite innovation. This half-day event promises to inspire, educate and engage attendees in respect of online advertising. “The theme of IAB Ireland’s 2012 conference is Maximise your Online ROI and our speakers will focus on practical examples of how to do just that and drive growth for advertisers, digital agencies and online publishers. We are expecting in the region of 200 attendees from the key stakeholders in our industry. Our objective is to provide a really practical half-day event highlighting the opportunities provided by online advertising and enabling delegates to hear from the leading experts at home and abroad on the best strategies to grow their online ROI. At IAB Ireland, we look forward to driving the development of our industry in partnership with our growing and active membership in 2012” said Suzanne McElligott, Chief Executive Officer of IAB Ireland. Sponsors of IAB Connect 2012 include Distilled Media, Google, irishtimes.com as well as DoneDeal.ie and TV3. See 
www.iabireland.ie for full details or tickets may be booked for IAB Connect 2012 at 
www.eventelephant.com 
