online
{ Maeve Dineen 
    January 30 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/on-line-sfp-applications-will-do-away-with-worries-about-post-losses-26282882.html }
FARMERS and their advisers will be able to apply for their Single Farm Payment on-line this year. In an effort to simplify the application process for farmers, the Department of Agriculture are extending their on-line services to allow farmers to apply on-line for the 2007 Single Payment Scheme (SPS). Considering that a large number of farmers do not have ready access to a computer, the Department is providing a pilot facility whereby suitably qualified advisers/consultants would be able to act for farmers and apply on-line on their behalf. Under the new on-line service, farmers will get an immediate acknowledgement that their applications have been received and will not have to worry about applications getting lost in the post. They will have access to additional information including their entitlement position, a history of entitlement transactions such as land transfers and copies of previous SPS applications. Importantly, the on-line system will also include a warning feature that alerts the applicant to possible over-claims, incorrect 10-month start dates, etc. This, the department hopes, will eliminate many of the small errors that were made in the past, but which caused delays because of follow-up queries to farmers and, in some cases, even led to penalties. Farmers can also submit an amendment form. In order to apply on-line, farmers need to be registered for on-line services with the Department. Already over 6,000 farmers are registered to these services which include registration of calf births on-line, herd profile enquiry and application on-line for compliance certificates. Application for registration can be made on-line through the Department's new on-line gateway www.agfood.ie or through the Department's website at www.agriculture.gov.ie. To assist farmers in registering for this service a Lo-call helpline is available at 1890 252 118. Prospective agents for farmers can get a registration form by dialing 1890 252 544. On registration, farmers will then receive a PIN number for logging on. 
