online
{ Caitriona Murphy 
    June 10 2008 03:51 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/big-profits-just-a-click-away-26452980.html }
It will be as essential as a bulk tank on a dairy farm or a tractor on a tillage farm, but its potential is only now being fully recognised. The computer has become a tool of the trade on many farms but is set to become a pivotal instrument of farming as information, records and analysis become the means of increasing profit. Of the 53,000 applicants to the new Suckler Welfare Scheme, around 10pc have decided to apply online. The reason? The normal grant rate of €80/cow is being increased by €2 to €82/cow, if the application is made online. With applications covering 148,000 animals, those 5,400 farmers have voted with the mouse in favour of higher profit. According to the Department of Agriculture, 7,540 farmers applied for the Single Payment Scheme in 2007 -- the first year of online applications. That figure increased to 19,635 online applications in 2008. When it comes to money in the pocket, farmers are no fools and are embracing computers and the internet with gusto. ICBF figures for 2007 show that, of the 3,079 farmers who are HerdPlus customers, 74pc signed up for the electronic reports option instead of waiting for paper reports to be posted out to them. Over 1,000 herds went online to use the new Sire Advice facility, which was launched in the spring of 2007 and all indications are that this service grew by 50pc in 2008. Between 2006 and 2007 ICBF recorded a 102pc increase in the amount of time farmers spent examining their herd profile online. In 2006, there were 56,438 farmer-user sessions recorded, but last year this jumped to 114,080 user sessions. Internet training Teagasc advisers Marie Christy, in Co Laois, and Art McGrath, in Co Donegal, ran 'Internet Training for Farmers' courses in the spring, which have proved so popular that demand is building for a repeat in the autumn. The course is aimed at making practical use of the internet and the tasks to be completed are useful, realistic and relevant to farmers. Course participants were shown how to check weather forecasts, how to tax their car, use the revenue website and file tax returns, all online. The Department of Agriculture website was accessed and farmers were shown how to look up their area aid and single payment applications, as well as download any information, or application forms, they might need. "We showed how to use the online calculators on the Teagasc website, how to Google something, how to get into their co-op online account," explains Art. "We showed them how to use online banking and how to email and send attachments. "Farmers are copping on, that being able to use the internet is an excellent tool and is very empowering," he says. In Co Laois, Marie Christy says course participants ranged from those who had a farm software package at home to those who were complete novices at computing. "There was a huge mixture in terms of age and experience but they all want the same things: to be able to register their calves online, to look up the single payment application and use different websites," she explains. "Even the ones who have some experience love to get hints and tips on how to get more out of their computer and the internet." Typical customer Kingswood boss Gerry Lynskey says the typical customer for his farm software package is a medium to large farmer who has had a computer in the home for the past 10 years. His children are always using the computer and his wife uses it occasionally. "The farmer hears from a friend, neighbour or relative that a farm package could be very beneficial for him in running the farm," he explains. "He comes to our stand at the Ploughing Championships and talks to us for five to 30 minutes, before mulling it over for another year or two!" Gerry estimates that around 10,000 farmers in the country are currently using a farm software programme and says there are another 10,000-20,000 who should be using one to streamline their business. The Kingswood customer-profile is almost the opposite of the profile of the farming population. "70pc of farmers in the country are over 40 years of age and I would say 70pc of our customers are under 40 years of age," he says. A breakdown of their customer base shows around 50pc are dairy farmers, 40pc are suckler farmers and 10pc are drystock farmers. Case study 1 ‘I think using a spreadsheet is something that all farmers should get to grips with’ Cork farmer, and Irish Grassland Association president, William Kingston, says he finds computers invaluable for the compliance aspect of farming today. "The most basic thing I use my computer for is the regulatory stuff -- registering calves and updating my herd register," he explains. Using a combination of a Kingswood package, Teagasc applications and the online services offered by the Department of Agriculture, and ICBF, William says speed and ease of use are essential. The less I have to do and the more information I can get out of it, the better," he says. He uses the ICBF website on a regular basis to monitor his herd profile, choose sires and examine all the breeding information on offer. "Munster AI have a great system in place, now, where the AI man has a hand-held computer and can update my records on the spot," he explains. "He just clicks on my name, picks out the cow number and records what bull is used and it's updated immediately on the database. "I can get a 21-day breeding report showing what cows I need to look at -- all without any cost to me. After milk recording, I'll get a text message from ICBF telling me the five cows with the highest cell count. "The days of posting out reports are becoming out of date. It's wasted days. "The Department website is also very good. I can look up my area-aid online and I use it a lot for getting movement certs for animals. "If I sell an animal privately and I apply for a movement cert before 3pm that day, the permit will be in the post tomorrow," he says. "It's almost impossible to make a mistake on the Department website because of the way they've designed it. You can't register a calf wrong." Wireless broadband Having secured wireless broadband about 18 months ago, William admits he probably would not use the computer as much if he didn't have fast internet access. "To be honest, if it takes more than 30 seconds to do something, I don't think anyone should, or would, use it. "It would take too long to do anything with your herd profile, without broadband." Despite insisting that he's only a medium-level PC user, William has quite a list of applications. As well as the online services and the farm software package, cash flow budgets from Teagasc, monthly accounts and grass budgeting are all done on computer. "I think using a spreadsheet is one of the basic tools that any farmer should get to grips with," he says. 
