online
{ Martin Ryan 
    April 25 2017 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/schemes/go-online-or-risk-losing-payments-warn-department-officials-35649440.html }
The Department of Agriculture has issued an ultimatum to thousands of farmers to get online by 2018 or risk  losing their EU direct payments.  The warning was issued by the Department last week when officials insisted that the full changeover from paper to online applications for CAP direct payments will go ahead next year. Up to 20,000 farmers, or almost 15pc of eligible applicants, still use physical application forms to apply for the  Basic Payment Scheme (BPS) and Areas of Natural Constraint (ANC) aid scheme. However, the Department has confirmed that paper-based applications for the BPS and ANC will not be accepted in 2018. Irish Farmers' Association (IFA) Deputy President, Richard Kennedy, claimed the association was pressing the Department to facilitate farmers who continued to make 'hard copy' applications. Meanwhile, Pat McCormack of the dairy farmers' organisation, the ICMSA, said farmers could not be  denied payments as a result of the changeover.  "Our bottom line is that no  farmer can be left without a payment in 2018 as a result of the Department's decision on this matter," he said. However, a spokesperson for Agriculture Minister Michael  Creed confirmed to the Farming  Independent that EU rules require that all applications must be completed online by 2018. There will be no exemptions or derogations granted, stressed the spokesperson. Farmers are to be offered the option to have their application  made online by Department staff, by calling in person to the offices at Portlaoise, Cavan and Drumshanbo on specified days ahead of the application closing dates. It has also been confirmed that all queries raised by the Department in relation to applications are to be processed online.  Farmers will be contacted by  email and must use email in response, while all supporting documentation must be forwarded electronically. Broadband Limerick IFA has put a motion to the association's national council condemning the compulsory move to online applications. The motion calls for an opt-out for farmers who are not computer-literate, or who live in rural areas where broadband is either very weak or non-existent. Limerick members said implementation of the changeover should be postponed until there was an adequate national rural broadband network and decent coverage. Pat  McCormack of the ICMSA  said  the  Department had to recognise that broadband coverage was either patchy, sub-standard or totally absent in many rural areas. "Many older farmers are unfamiliar with online systems - is that to be held against them?  "The Department will simply have to accommodate such people in 2018," he said.
       A spokesperson for Minister Creed said: “The Department is aware that, for a variety of reasons, it can be difficult for individuals to submit their applications online.  “To assist in this regard, officials from the Department will be visiting a number of locations around the country over the coming weeks where they will be available to provide one- to-one assistance to farmers in making their applications online, and to answer any queries regarding the  application process individuals may have.” Benefits The Department points out that the online application process provides many benefits to farmers over a paper application, including warning applicants of certain potential errors such as over-claims, breach of percentage thresholds in Greening and ensuring no vital information is omitted. While there was a surge in growth of online applications after the system was introduced a decade ago, the rate of change has slowed in recent years.  Between 2007 and 2009, online applications increased by 457pc. Between 2015 and 2016 the increase was just 9.6pc. Farmers who require assistance are invited to contact the Department’s Direct Payments Helpdesk on lo-call 0761-064420. Indo Farming 
