online
{ Ciaran Moran 
    May 29 2017 02:57 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/schemes/department-starts-preliminary-checks-on-bps-applications-35767162.html }
The first run of preliminary checks on farmers' Basic Payment Scheme applications commenced this week. The initiative allows Member States to introduce pre-checks for online BPS applications and to notify applicants of any non-compliance in the areas of overclaims, dual claims, and overlaps.  Farmers are now being offered the opportunity to rectify any such non-compliance by the deadline of 19 June with no penalty applied where the non-compliance is fully rectified by that date. Preliminary checks can only be applied to online BPS applicants.  As the Department continues to progress towards the EU regulatory requirement of 100% online BPS application by 2018, these checks add a further benefit to farmers who apply online and increase the efficiency with which BPS applications can be processed. Preliminary checks will identify any overclaims, overlaps or dual claims in respect of online BPS applications.  Where a preliminary check identifies such an issue applicants are given the opportunity to amend their claim.  Applicants may wish to retain their original claim, or to amend their claim in light of the preliminary check. For example, where a preliminary check highlights a dual claim the response can Where a preliminary check identifies a dual claim, overclaim, or overlap, a notification will issue on the BPS online system – i.e. no paper based notification will issue.  Farmers and advisors should thus check the correspondence section of their BPS online account.  Where a farmer is signed up for text message alerts, a text will issue to advise them that they have a notification on their BPS account. Where a farmer has applied online through an advisor, the advisor will receive notification via the BPS online account in respect of any of his / her clients where a preliminary check has identified a dual claim, overclaim or overlap.  Farmers who have applied through an advisor will also get a text message alert where they are signed up for this service. What should I do if I get a notification arising from a preliminary check? When a notification / text message alert of a preliminary check is received, you should How do I respond to a preliminary check? Where preliminary checks have identified an overclaim, overlap or dual claim, this will be clearly signalled on the homescreen of the BPS online application system. A farmer or advisor can click the “View Preliminary Checks” button to see the detail in each case.  It is important to note that Will all online applicants get a notification of a preliminary check? No. An action is only required of farmers / advisors where a preliminary check has identified a dual claim, overclaim or overlap on an application. Online Editors 
