online
{ Mary O'Donnell 
    January 30 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/online-applicants-dont-post-anything-26063254.html }
As the last couple of days tick by before its February 1  deadline, the CAO reports that online applications are  arriving by the thousand. There is one point that seems to  throw online applicants, however, and that is that students feel they should post the fee payment form to to CAO after they apply online. As the last couple of days tick by before its February 1 deadline, the CAO reports that online applications are arriving by the thousand. There is one point that seems to throw online applicants, however, and that is that students feel they should post the fee payment form to CAO after they apply online. They should not do so. There is no need for an online applicant to post anything. The steps they should take for fee payment, which are all explained in the CAO handbook, are as follows: online applicants enter the sequence number from the fee payment form into their online application. CAO will check that this sequence number appears in its bank accounts with Euro20 paid. If it does not appear, CAO will write to the applicant later, asking for evidence of payment. CAO points out that, obviously, it takes time for the payment to get through the banking system. Applicants need not concern themselves with that however. It does not matter that it will take some time for the money to reach CAO's account so long as the application fee has been paid by 5.15pm on February 1. Paper applicants should post part one of their fee payment form back to CAO, duly stamped by the bank, with the rest of their application form. As always, paper applicants are advised to get a certificate of postage as proof that they posted their form in time. Applicants who apply online must print out the official receipt that will appear on the screen after they have fully completed the application. Only this will be accepted as proof of submission of an online application. Online applicants will receive a written acknowledgement of their application within five days. An initial acknowledgement will also be sent to those who use the paper application and enclose the initial acknowledgment card, which they should have self-addressed and stamped. All applicants will receive a 'statement of course choices acknowledgement of application' no later than March 5. This statement will give them their CAO application number and the list of courses to which they have applied. It is important to check the course choices immediately to ensure that they are absolutely correct. CAO advises that, while the statement may be used to amend course choices, most applicants should not use it to do so. This statement is designed primarily to assist two categories of applicant mature applicants and those applying to restricted application courses. Applicants who have made an error relating to restricted application courses should avail of the opportunity to correct this in time for early tests and interviews. They may even use the facility to introduce a restricted application course that they had forgotten about or did not know about. Similarly, mature applicants will be able to correct any errors or omissions in time for interviews. Any such changes must be carried out in a seven-day period from the date of issue of the 'statement of course choices acknowledgement of application'. A fee of Euro7 must be paid to use this facility. All applicants will receive a subsequent confirmation of their CAO application record in May, as a final acknowledgement to enable them to verify that all information has been recorded accurately. All applicants have the facility to change their mind about their course choices, almost without restriction, up to July 1 without having to pay any additional fee. Talking of fees, we touched on the fact in last week's column that not all courses in the CAO handbook are covered by the free tuition fees scheme. Evening degree courses in any college are not covered by the free scheme. Full-time courses in private colleges in the CAO system are not covered by the free tuition fees scheme either and therefore charge fees to all students. A spokesperson for Griffith College, Dublin, would like to point out that, although it is a private fee-paying college, fees for students on the first two years of its computing science degree programme are paid for by the Department of Education and Science. Meanwhile, a mature student interested in applying to college had some queries for the column. Is a Leaving Certificate essential for entrance to college? The answer is that, for mature applicants, it is not. Applicants over the age of 23 are considered on factors other than Leaving Certificate results. Colleges will be anxious to establish their motivation and their readiness to profit from the opportunity to study. A second query was: are there any colleges that specialise in preparing mature students for the Leaving Certificate? The answer again is that many vocational education committee senior colleges are a good place to start, in any VEC area in the country. Tomorrow, Thursday January 31, Rathmines Senior College, Town Hall, Dublin 6, holds an open day from 1.00pm-4.30 pm. It will have seminars as follows: Journalism and Public Relations, 1.30pm; Accounting, 2.00pm; Business, 2.30pm; Return to Learning for Adults, 3.00pm. 
