online
{ EOGHAN WILLIAMS 
    December 15 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/how-do-i-trade-online-26246023.html }
You'll need: ?2,000+ and secure access to the Internet. You'll get: Online share dealing. DOING anything financial on the Internet is seen as risky. It is the home of loans for people the banks won't touch, spread betting and credit card fraud. So would you switch from telephone or written stockbroking to Internet stockbroking? In the late 1990s, when online dealing first emerged, it took two forms. The first wasn't really trading at all. Brokers simply set up brochure websites and, if you were lucky, a facility to request deals to be carried out by email. This was no different to using the telephone. The other form online dealing took was a phenomenon called 'day trading'. The Internet was beginning to give the private investor sufficiently fast access to markets to allow a share to be bought and sold within a day. You had a long-term investment if you still held stock at the close of trading. Day trading is not, needless to say, an advisable way to invest, unless it is done purely for fun. In the last year or two, however, execution-only trading where you buy and sell without advice has become available online. You can deal at the price on screen across a range of currencies and have access to the latest market news as part of the package. The great advantages are convenience, speed and the ability to trade on multiple international markets with ease. How do I do it? Security is still a major issue when it comes to online transactions. Netscape 4.5+ or Explorer 5+ are the most secure browsers available as they include 128-bit encryption. It certainly is convenient to deal from your desk, but what happens when you are not online? The better brokers allow you to continue dealing by phone so you do not rely exclusively on the web. But the stockbrokers will close long before many key markets do. If you are going to trade online in a big way, home as well as work access to the Internet is important. One major criticism is that online dealing is rarely cheaper than traditional methods of trading. Davy stockbrokers offer an online service called Davy Direct, which is very user-friendly. A simple application form, ?2,000 starting balance, and some proof of identity are all you need to register. You pay ?25 commission per transaction and a 0.75 per cent fee. Above ?25,000 this fee drops to 0.5 per cent. One of the best things about the Davy system is that you can set price alerts which are sent to your mobile or by email. If the crash is happening today, you don't want to hear about it next week.This type of online broker will usually offer market news from Reuters or Bloomberg as part of your package. A little like online banking, online dealing offers instant, up-to-the-minute information, anytime. It is an unrivalled way to access records, but, for the small investor, it is too expensive to offer more frequent transactions. 
