online
{  
    March 18 2017 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/corks-largest-digital-event-urging-firms-to-get-online-to-see-their-business-grow-35535345.html }
Cork's largest digital seminar gave more than 200 business people from Cork and the surrounding region the opportunity to discover not only how they can start trading online, but how they can identify emerging trends to help grow their share of online business. It was held on Tuesday in Rochestown Park Hotel, hosted by Cork's Local Enterprise Offices, in partnership with the Department of Communications, Climate Action and Environment, the Regional Trading Online Event Since 2014, Local Enterprise Offices in Cork have helped more than 380 Cork businesses to grow their online revenues and presence with support to the tune of almost €750,000, from the Government's Trading Online Voucher Scheme.  In the months to come, these figures are set to increase significantly as more small business owners realise that getting online can be more than just a lifeline - it can be a fast track to growth and prosperity. Speaking at the event, Claire Graham of The Old Mill Stores which is situated in Connonagh in Leap has built one of Ireland's top lifestyle and interiors shops. Far from letting her rural location be a hindrance, she turned to online trading to boost her business.  Since utilising the Trading Online Voucher Scheme, Claire says her online business improved by 38%.  "Your website is your shopfront to the world, keep it simple and learn from others. Regardless of where in the world your business is, whether you are in Connonagh or Cannes, it is now possible to own and run a successful online business." As pointed out by the European Commission, Ireland ranks very prominently when it comes to the integration of digital technologies by businesses. The European Digital Economy and Society Index (DESI) recently placed Ireland in 8th place across 28 member European states. The day-long event also focused on topics ranging from developing a powerful marketing strategy, to engaging audiences through social channels and emerging trends, to telling your own unique business story.  Speaking of the event, Denis Naughten, Minister for Communications, Climate Action and Environment said, "Ireland needs more businesses selling their goods and services on the internet." Corkman 
