online
{  
    June 14 2019 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/sport/gaa/club-call-38199369.html }
Clan na Gael - Numbers drawn in Sunday's lotto were 5, 9, 10, 22 and the two match-three winners of €100 each were the O'Hagan family (c/o M Curran) and Kevin Ward (c/o Frankie). This week's jackpot stands at €9,600. COOLEY KICKHAMS Numbers drawn in last week's lotto were 1, 6, 10, 12 and the five €20 winners were Ann Marie O'Neill (online), Michael Rogan snr (c/o Eamon Carroll), Cathy Gregory (c/o Gerry Malone) and Olivia Duffy and Ciara Connolly (both c/o Brian). The jackpot for the draw last night (Monday) stood at €6,400. DOWDALLSHILL Last Tuesday's lotto numbers were 1, 14, 18, 30 and the €25 winners were Nicola and Buster (c/o Murphys Bar), Mick O'Driscoll (c/o Doylesfort Grove), Shane Byrne (c/o Pat Rogers) and Chris Mc Mahon (c/o Noel Finnegan). This Tuesday's jackpot stands at €8,000 and the draw takes place at 10pm. A big thank-you to all those who supported our Car Boot Sale at the weekend in aid of our ladies team. DUNDALK GAELS All is in readiness for Saturday's walk on the Cooley Mountains - and it would seem the turnout is going to be one of the biggest ever. The event has been part of the club's schedule for a number of years, not only raising much-need funds but also providing a unique fun day. Anyone who has not registered can go along to The Lumpers, Ravensdale, from where the walk sets off at 1.30. Sponsorship cards will be collected there, and participants provided with refreshments. There'll be food for the children afterwards in The Lumpers, with adults gathering for a barbecue that night in Kennedys on the Carrick Road. Best of luck to all those taking part. The lotto jackpot is nearing the €18,000 mark. Will the €17,900 on offer be won in the draw taking place in the clubrooms following the intermediate team's league match with Young Irelands tonight (Tuesday)? Give yourself a chance of winning this tidy sum by buying a ticket at Grant's Newsagent, Dublin Street, or from any committee member. They are also available online. They cost €2 each, two for €3 or three for a fiver. The numbers drawn last week were 2, 20, 22, 30 and the five consolation winners were Margaret Murphy (c/o Daire), John Byrne jnr (Hill Street), Maeve McEleavey (Beech Park, Blackrock), Briege Duffy (c/o Jimmy Mahon) and Pauline McManus, Mulholland Avenue. The club wishes to thank subscribers for their continued support. Our junior team are experiencing mixed luck in the league. Following a defeat by Naomh Mairtin, they got back on a winning track with a win over Geraldines on Friday night. A win over Young Irelands this evening will keep the intermediate side in the hunt for promotion. The game takes place at Pairc na nGaeil, with the throw-in timed for 8 o'clock. Get along to give the team your support. GERALDINES The seniors play St Pat's at home this Tuesday, with throw-in at 8 pm. Please come along and support the team as they recommence their league campaign. Commiserations to the Louth team who exited the All-Ireland trail with defeat against Antrim on Saturday. Hard luck all, and especially our own Gers trio of Dan, James and Jim. Our Juniors played twice last week. Tuesday saw them take on and beat Hunterstown Rovers, while on Friday the Dundalk Gaels came away victorious. As always there was plenty of activity within our juvenile section this past week, with lots of games, blitzes and training. We would like to congratulate our members who represented Geraldines in the Louth GAA Skills Challenge during the past few days. Our U-14 girls continued their recent run of good form with a win against the Pat's on Monday evening. Credit must be given to both teams for putting on a good display of football in awful conditions. Details of all club activities over the past week can be found on our social media platforms. Make sure to check our social media every Monday for details of our forthcoming fixtures for the week and we welcome your support where you can. One Club, One Community, Three Schools! Friday saw us host the first of two Parish School Blitzes - 120 3rd class children met for a full hour of football at McGeough Park. We are grateful for the kind sponsorship of Frank Lynch & Co who assisted with providing transport of the pupils from the Rock schools to the Gers, and also to Sillis Green Veg who sponsored fresh fruit pots for all of the kids involved. Our second Blitz will be for 4th Class on Friday 21st June and we encourage all parents, grandparents, family members and friends to come along and watch, and to check out our club and facilities. Over the summer months we will be running a monthly competition to see where and with who you will be seen wearing the green and white. Check our social media platforms for all the ways you can enter our new competition. There's a monthly O'Neill's voucher for each successful winner in June, July and August up for grabs. So get snapping. Your local SuperValu Fairways is supporting local clubs. Each time you visit SuperValu and spend over €30 please write Geraldines on your receipt and put it into their collection box so that we may stand a chance of winning a new set of jerseys. We need 2,000 vouchers to win, so please remember to support the club. Our lotto jackpot is now €5,600. Thank you to everyone who continues to support our club lotto; these funds are vital to the club to maintain and upgrade our club facilities for all the parish to enjoy. Bookings are now being taken for the Louth GAA Kelloggs Cúl Camps. Please note our own club dates, Monday 1st to Friday 5th July. Please book early to avoid any disappointment. Bookings can be made via www.kelloggsculcamps.gaa.ie. FlashBack Friday - remember to check our social media every Friday to see what trip down memory lane we take! We would like to take this opportunity to wish all our players the best of luck with the remainder of their Junior & Leaving Certs. For club jerseys, gear and leisurewear please visit our online shop. For Twitter please follow us on https://twitter.com/GeraldinesGFC, for Facebook please check out https://www.facebook.com/GeraldinesGFC/ and for Instagram you can find us at https://www.instagram.com/geraldinesgfc. GLEN EMMETS Glen Emmets take on Stabannon at 8pm in Cusack Park tonight (Tuesday) in round eight of the Division 3A league. Come out and show your support. In Division 5 we play St Fechins at 8pm on Thursday in Termonfeckin in round eight - all support welcome. Thanks to Louth GAA's Shane Lennon, Louth Coaching & Games personnel, Glen Emmets coaches and all those who volunteered to make the coaching day at Tullyallen National School such a success. Congratulations to our U-12s captain Jacob Morgan on winning the Louth GAA U-12 skills test last Thursday in Darver. Club gear is available online, including jerseys, training tops, shorts, tracksuit bottoms, half zips, body warmers, hats, bags etc! Numbers drawn in last week's lotto were 14, 18, 19, 25 and the lucky dip winners of €25 were Michelle O'Brien, Tracy Rooney, Lynda Hayden and Keith Boylan. The jackpot is €6,300 for the draw this Tuesday night in the Morning Star, Tullyallen. KILKERLEY EMMETS Numbers drawn in last Tuesday's lotto were 10, 12, 13, 19 and the winners of €20 each were Pamela O'Hare (c/o V Litchfield), May Sharkey (c/o K Cunningham), Amy Higgins (c/o W Quigley), Kay Boltan (c/o Kennedys bar) and Alan Clarke c/o Callans bar. Thanks to all those who support the club lotto and those that promote and assist at the draw each Tuesday and the jackpot for tonight's draw stands at €5,000. The junior team beat St Kevin's 4-18 to 3-12 last week and the intermediate team play Hunterstown at home this evening (Tuesday) at 8pm. The minors play on June 24th away to Clans at 7.30pm. The U-16 boys play on Monday next away to St Bride's at 7.30pm and on Friday June 21st at home to St Pat's at 7.30pm. The U-14 boys play at home on Wednesday of next week at 7.30pm in the 2B League semi-final against Plunkett's. The U-12 boys play this Friday at home at 7pm against O'Connell's/Stabannon/Mitchel's and on Friday June 28th away to Geraldines at 7pm. The ladies team beat Plunkett's 4-8 to 1-11. The U-16 girls finished level - 4-9 to 2-15 - away to Stabannon. The U-14 girls lost to St Fechin's and next Monday are at home to Hunterstown at 7.30pm. The U-12 girls beat Blues 1-9 to 0-1 and play at home to O Raghallaigh's/Plunkett's this Thursday at 7.30pm and next week away to Glyde Westerns at 7.30pm. MATTOCK RANGERS Numbers drawn in last Tuesday's lotto were 6, 7, 17, 27 and the three match-three winners were Joseph Finnegan, Frank McGuinness and Dermot Jones. This Tuesday's jackpot stands at €15,000. MILLMOUNT HANDBALL Congrats and very well done to young clubman Lorcan Matthews who managed to defeat a strong field of contenders to win our juvenile Top Ace score competition with a fine score of 14 aces. The John West Feile na nGael tournament wìll take place this coming Saturday at Conna Handball Club in Cork and we would like to take this opportunity to wish our club team representatives Alex Woods, James Mc Donald, Oisin Brennan, David Murphy and Kalum Byrne all the very best of luck. The winner of our €50 club lottery bonus ball draw last week was John Matthews - well done. Our club fund-raising clothing appeal is going very well and if you have any unwanted coats, handbags, belts, shoes, t-shirts etc please bring them along to Coke Community Hall or contact Maria on 087-9821594 to arrange for collection - thank you. Our club coaches have been invited to conduct an introduction handball demonstration day for the pupils of St Mary's Primary School, Bryanstown. More information on the demonstration day will be posted shortly. The club are delighted to announce a top-class line-up of ladies and gents GAA handball all-stars for our unique and not to be missed strictly handball mixed doubles tournament, which takes place in St Mary's DS on Saturday June 22nd. These include world singles and doubles champion Martina Mc Mahon from Limerick, world doubles champion Aisling Reilly from Antrim, under 19 world champion Megan Mc Cann from Armagh, under 17 All-Ireland champion Niamh Heffernan from Galway, All-Ireland under 23 champion Ciana Ni Churraoin of Galway, world doubles champion Sean Kerr from Tyrone and Limerick masters champion Pat Murphy. Attending also will be GAA Handball president Joe Masterson. There will also be a top ace score competition for our younger club players on the day as well, so come along enjoy and meet the stars of handball. It's a free event and refreshments wìll be served throughout the day. Don't miss out. There will be a committee meeting on Wednesday June 19th at 7pm in the Pheasant function room. All delegates, players and fun-day committee members are requested to attend. Our juvenile coaching for boys and girls continues every Friday night at Coke Hall. For more information please contact Catriona on 087-7592258. Check out our Facebook page for more club info and updates. NAOMH MAIRTIN Numbers drawn in last Wednesday's lotto were 3, 10, 15, 18 and the €150 match-three prize was shared by Conor Meegan, Michael Boylan and Graham Mulroy. This week's jackpot is €17,000. Please support our lotto. Tickets can be purchased online at www.naomhmairtin.com or in local retail outlets. Thanks for your continued support. Can all people using and visiting the Naomh Mairtin club contribute to our club and our community's Monasterboice Tidy Towns & Tourism Group, by using the bins supplied around our facilities. Plus, if at the club - either playing, walking or supporting - then please pick up any litter lying around and put it in the bins. Everyone's help will keep our club facility and community in tip-top condition. Kids can make friends for life and get a free training top, backpack and GAA jersey with #KelloggsGAACulCamps and be #Cul4life. Register online at gaa.ie/kelloggsculcamps. The official GAA Naomh Mairtin camp takes place from July 1st to 5th and you need to book before tomorrow (Wednesday) to get free gear before the camp starts. Well done to all those who took part in the AED/CPR and First Aid courses over the weekend. We have spent considerable money in installing a second AED machine and as well as maintaining this machine we need to ensure that in case of use that we have personnel within teams at every grade or club personnel who frequent the club on a regular basis to be in a position to react and use the machine in case of an incident/emergency. So well done to all those who spent time over the weekend training themselves up. Well done to our coaches who were in Scoil Naomh Buithe last week as part of the GAA's Club Together Day. More than 200 children in the school received a day of coaching from our club coaches as well as Louth GAA coaches Shane Lennon and Craig Lynch. All had a great day. Upcoming fixtures: Senior Division 1 - Naomh Mairtin v St Bride's tonight (Tuesday) at 8pm in Knockbridge. Last week's result: Division 6 - Naomh Mairtin 5-15 O'Connell's 2-5. Hard luck to all the lads who represented the county teams over the last week. NAOMH MALACHI Underage training for Under-6s to Under-12s continues this Tuesday at 7pm in the Naomh Malachi pitch and will continue every Tuesday evening at that time. Our club shop section has been added to the O'Neill's website where you can purchase club merchandise. A portion of the revenue from these sales will go back into the club. Naomh Malachi GFC extends sincere sympathies to the family of the late Iris O'Sullivan, formerly of Toberona, Dundalk. Ar dheis Dé go raibh a hanam dílis. Naomh Malachi GFC extends sincere sympathies to the family of the late Mícheál Maguire of Tavanamore, Hackballscross. Ar dheis Dé go raibh a anam. NAOMH MONINNE Training for all juveniles continues this coming Saturday at the Fairgreen from 2 to 3pm, with the usual €2 contribution still applying. Our U-14 team had mixed fortunes over the weekend as they represented Louth at the National Feile na nGael in Cork. Competing in Division 8 the following were their three group games results: Naomh Moninne 1-5 Kilbrittain 1-6; Naomh Moninne 1-2 Castlebar Mitchell's 3-5; Naomh Moninne 0-5 Ahan Gaels 2-5. They went on to beat Abbeydorney (Kerry) by 1-7 to 0-4 in the Shield quarter-final on Saturday afternoon. They lost to Castleblaney in the semi-final on Sunday afternoon by 3-2 to 2-1, but everyone can be proud of how they represented the club. Well done players, mentors and supporters. Six of our senior squad suffered heartbreak when Louth were relegated to the Lory Meagher Cup for 2020 by the concession of a late, late goal to Monaghan in the Nicky Rackard Cup relegation play-off in Crossmaglen on Saturday afternoon. The final scoreline was 4-17 to 2-20 and the Moninne players involved were Donal Connolly, John Martin, Darren O'Hanrahan, Darren Geoghegan (0-13), Feidhelm Joyce (0-1) and Padraic Fallon. The players' attention now turns to club action where Moninne will play St Fechin's in the Senior League in Termonfeckin next Sunday at 3pm. The Naomh Moninne Cul Camp will run from Monday July 29th to Friday August 2nd in Dowdallshill and bookings can be currently done online at gaa.ie/Kelloggsculcamp at a cost of €60 - €55 for a second child. You can guarantee your child playing gear for the camp by pre-booking online now. Membership is still being collected at the following rates - adult player €60, student player €25, non-player €25, juvenile €20 and family membership €60. O'CONNELL'S Numbers drawn in last Tuesday's lotto were 8, 21, 23, 26 and there were no jackpot or match-three winners, so the jackpot rises to €3,600 for tonight's draw. Bingo continues in our clubrooms this Wednesday at 8pm, with a jackpot of €3,700 in 48 numbers. There will be social dancing this coming Saturday in our clubrooms from 9pm, with music by Images. Admission costs €10 and refreshments will be served. ROCHE EMMETS Well done to our second team who put on a superb performance to come from two goals down to beat St Fechin's 1-11 to 2-5. The resolute defence deserve special mention as they held the Fechin's scoreless in the second half. The Kelloggs Cul Camp is always a brilliant week for the children and this year it runs from Monday July 29th to Friday August 2nd. Book online before midnight on June 12th to get your gear before the camp starts. There is always a good supply of club gear on the O'Neills website where we have our own club shop, shorts, socks, tops - something for everyone. ST BRIDE'S Numbers drawn in last week's lotto were 4, 6, 7, 21 and the five match-three winners of €40 each were Tony Tynan (online) and Paddy McHugh, Carmel Soraghan, Mary Conroy and Mark Hoey (all c/o Shop). The jackpot for the draw last night (Monday) stood at €11,400. Tickets areon sale (priced €2) from Mac Namee's Bar, Mc Guinness's Bar Dundalk, Mc Keown's Bar Dundalk, Giovanni's Chipper, Today's Local Shop, Cluskey's Bar, Finnegan's Foodstore Louth, Harrys Bar Dundalk, Copper Kettle Dundalk, committee members/players or online at www.stbridesgfc.com. We wish to thank you for your continued support. In the Division 4 League last week it finished St Bride's 0-10 Newtown Blues 0-11. ST NICHOLAS Our new 'Buy a Brick' fund-raising campaign to help towards the continued building of our new community clubhouse is up and running. It gives you the chance to have your name forever part of our club. You can purchase a brick from any club member or online through our website. See Facebook or our website for more details. Our adult team are training in the field this Thursday at 8pm. Nursery to U-12s aswell as the girls are training in Pentony Park this week also. See Facebook for more details on times. Numbers drawn in last Tuesday's lotto were 6, 9, 10, 23 and the two match-three winners of €75 each were Fergus Godfrey (Tredagh View) and Marie Gates (Hillview). This week's jackpot is €4,360. Please continue to support our lotto, which can also be purchased at Centras in Ballsgrove and the Rathmullen oad each Saturday from 9am until 1pm. Keep an eye on our Facebook and website for more info. ST PATRICK'S Numbers drawn in last Thursday's lotto were 1, 15, 19, 22 and there were two match-three winners - John Campbell (c/o Mary Campbell) and Lorcan Finnegan (c/o Joe Finnegan). This week's jackpot stands at €3,400 and tickets can be purchased from local shops, club committee members and also online. The Argus 
