online
{ Donal Lynch 
    April 04 2014 09:08 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/separating-the-online-successes-from-the-illusions-30156393.html }
IN THE recently Oscar-nominated movie Her, Joaquin Phoenix plays a man who falls in love with a computer (voiced by Scarlett Johansson) who, with her artificial intelligence and foxy cyber-charm, seems like the perfect antidote to his gloomy, self-absorbed ex-wife. An operating system, she is as clever as Google and a good deal more risque than the virtual PA Siri (who, if you ask her for no strings attached sex, coolly intones "I'm not that kind of girl"). There are no awkward goodbyes, no pregnant silences – she always knows what to say – and she's never needy. In short, she's the perfect woman – minus an actual body. Naturally, Joaquin's character becomes smitten and measures out his life in bursts of Johansson's wittily seductive banter. But, as with so many technological advances, there are glitches. When it emerges that this digital phantom doesn't quite understand the emotional investment implicit in human love, Joaquin is sent running back to the real world, bereft and alone. Watching his character twiddle his moustache in confusion, I felt 'There but For The Grace Of The Painfully Slow IOS Updates Go I'. I entered adulthood just as the internet was becoming a thing we could all use and, for gay men, it was like introducing crystal meth to a depressed small town in the US. Online dating seemed like a brave new dawn, one that would rescue us from the indiscreet horror of bars and the inefficient randomness of fate. Personal ads were like adult versions of letters to Santa – pie-in-the sky wish lists – and this new cyber frontier seemed filled with endless promise. Real life quickly went out of style. By the late 1990s, gay bars in Manchester were reporting huge profit losses – in their droves, gay men had begun to stay at home, staring into their little portals. In time, dating apps like Grindr (the digital equivalent of the Breaking Bad blue meth) reduced the search for partners down to a simple algorithm – you could now find out how close the nearest guy was right now. Each new method of viewing pictures of headless torsos seemed like good progress, a way to scrabble more feverishly still for the dream of perfect union. We told ourselves we were diligently looking for Mister Right or Mister Right Now – "whichever comes first" – but the reality of the search was that, like Joaquin Phoenix's character, we were probably spending a good deal of our free time in the company of a computer, performing the lonely admin of romance. For a time, this tragic state of affairs was decently confined to the gay community. But soon it passed into the mainstream. Once a taboo for straight people, online dating is now a multi-billion Euro industry. More than 30 per cent of couples who married in America in the last five years met their partner online (it is now the second most likely way to meet your future spouse, after mutual friends) and it is becoming increasingly common here as a method of finding love. These days, even some of the reality stars of Don't Tell The Bride are likely to have met on the internet. For an Irish population with more single people than at any time in its history, online dating offers the dream of removing the historic obstacles to true love (time, space, your disapproving mammy vetoing the whole thing). It also changes the gender rules of dating – why would a woman have to wait to be asked out when all it took was the click of a mouse to make an overture to a man she'd never met? For older people, who might not feel comfortable in a real life meat market, it extends the playing field beyond the bar or club. For those hunting for a relationship or sex, it seems easier than ever before to find the Prince or Princess Charming of our wildly unrealistic dreams. Except, of course, for many of us that is not how it works. Freud once wrote that children were as likely to weep from bewilderment at too much choice, as they were to smart from the limits of constrained choice. The internet gives the illusion of a limitless pool of potential partners but the reality is that the quest for perfection and utilitarian nature of the search – tailored to your precisely entered requirements – squeezes a lot of the humanity out of the process. And humanity, it turns out, is quite important for sex and romance. The Israeli-American psychologist Dan Ariely has argued that dating websites, as they exist, are a poor tool for finding real love. Online, we are reduced to categories but people do not fall in love, or even in lust, like this. We might think we can reduce our requirements to a list of vital statistics, a short blurb and a few decently photoshopped images, but our hearts are not wired to flutter to these things. Dating websites, he says, "think that we're like digital cameras, that you can describe somebody by their height and weight and political affiliation and so on. But it turns out people are much more like wine. When you taste the wine, you could describe it, but it's not a very useful description. You just know if you like it or don't. And it's the complexity and the completeness of the experience that tells you if you like a person or not. And this breaking down of attributes turns out not to be very informative." Another problem with online dating is that the real life tension between sex and romance is heightened by the inbuilt anonymity of the internet. Most people want it all: the thrill of a disposable encounter with the warmth of a real connection, the comfort of closeness and the relief of distance. The French sociologist Jean-Claude Kaufmann (who wrote one of the seminal books on this subject, Love Online) argues that in the modern world of speed dating, online dating and social networking, the overarching idea is to have brief engagements that involve minimal commitment and maximum pleasure. Even sites like match.com can take on the feeling of a cattle mart. So what's a frustrated internet dater to do to avoid ending up as lonely and frustrated as Joaquin Phoenix in Her? As someone who met his boyfriend online, I can say the most important thing is to manage your own natural tendency to project your desire for what you are looking for onto what is available (and also be aware of this in others). Someone might look perfect on a screen, but temper your expectations. The best thing to do is get everything onto dry land as quickly as possible. * You must present yourselves to each other in person – taking all the usual precautions of course: let someone know where you're going; meet the person somewhere public; never agree to more than just a drink or a coffee to start. This is 'tasting' Ariely's 'wine'. Before you meet someone, you are merely consuming their ad campaign of the self and this will tell you less than you will see in a fraction of a second in his or her company. Never invest someone with any kind of meaning until you have actually hung out. I've known people who've conducted whole torrid affairs by email only to be quietly horrified when they've seen the reality. * The internet is very visual and does no favours for people with good personalities. Most people spend an inordinate amount of time cooking up some attractive online persona, taking the perfect selfie or touching up pictures of themselves, and then dash off a thoughtless few lines of self-description. Try to write something slightly interesting or witty about yourself and you will raise yourself above the pack. * Embrace the contradictions in internet dating. Most websites are geared to help you find someone you have something in common with – play along – but in fact the web is more likely to throw someone your way you would never have otherwise met. An Oxford Institute internet report, published in 2010, confirmed that people who meet online have a greater age difference and come from a wider range of educational and socio-economic backgrounds than people who meet offline. * Be prepared to give up internet dating. This might sound obvious but the web should be a tool, a means to an end, and the hope should be to transition away from using it for meeting people romantically. Recognise that the apparently endless choice is an illusion and stay true to what you were looking for in the first place. We all live in our screens these days, with shortening attention spans, and the constant lure of the web can leave us feeling simultaneously overstimulated and hollow. If someone seems promising, be prepared to log off, unplug and bravely enter what gaming nerds call 'the meat world', ie reality. And, lastly, remember to loosen up, have fun and laugh at the whole process. As a friend of mine said recently: "Sometimes the moment you relax about finding that perfect partner is the very moment you'll open up your email and find a hideously vulgar email from a total stranger." Sunday Indo Living 
