online
{ Aideen Sheehan Consumer Affairs Correspondent 
    November 19 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/shop-online-to-net-hottest-deals-26332872.html }
Shoppers can save themselves hundreds of euros by shopping online this Christmas -- but it pays to compare prices carefully as not everything is cheaper online. A survey by the Irish Independent revealed that you could save yourself as much as €340 on a big-ticket item such as a widescreen plasma TV -- and even for smaller items like computer games and CDs, the savings remain substantial. However, shopping online has proved a minefield for some consumers, and the European Consumer Centre (ECC) here reported a surge of complaints from disgruntled shoppers this year who didn't get what they bargained for. They have already handled 72 complaints about online shopping in 2007, with 43pc relating to non-delivery or partial delivery of goods, and one-third relating to problems with defective products. The Irish centre said they were constantly hearing about these types of issues and others such as "websites" disappearing when a problem arises. In a bid to try and stem problems and boost consumer confidence in the online marketplace, the ECC network across Europe is today launching an "online shopping assistant" to help consumers find out whether a website is trustworthy or not. The ECC website, on www.eccdublin.ie, enables users enter a website name or company registration number and then retrieves information about how old the site is -- if it's brand-new, caution is urged if the prices are very attractive and pre-payment is needed. The site also retrieves any negative consumer comments and highlights consumer rights for online shopping. Online shopping has grown hugely in Ireland in the last few years, and this year some 52pc of Irish consumers surveyed said they plan to use the internet for their Christmas shopping, putting Ireland second only to Germany in this regard. Products Some 36pc of respondents surveyed by Deloitte said they would buy products and services over the internet, while 25pc said they would use it to research and compare prices. The main reasons for this were better choice of products and to avoid crowded stores. CDs, DVDs, books and tickets will be the top items purchased, according to the survey. CDs can be as much as 40pc dearer in high-street stores than they are online. There's big savings on computer games too, with the Assassin's Creed game (for PlayStation 3) available for €57.99 at cdwow.ie, compared with €74.99 at Gamestop stores. But the cost of a PlayStation 3 40GB console is cheaper at Gamestop, costing €400 compared to €405 plus €12 for delivery from www.komplett.ie. But when it comes to the priciest products, such as TVs, www.komplett.ie comes into its own with a Samsung 42-inch HD Ready plasma TV costing just €1,022 including delivery compared with €1,361.99 at Argos. - Shoppers can change their mind and cancel the order up to seven days after receiving the goods, but this doesn't apply if CDs, DVDs or software are opened, or for perishable or tailor-made goods. - Online retailers must give both a geographical and email contact address. - If goods are faulty the seller must bear the cost of them being returned. 
