online
{  
    January 08 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/local-news-local-news-27437319.html }
Committee meeting: A committee meeting will be held on Monday week next, January 19th at 8 oclock. All committee members are asked to attend.	Membership fees: Membership fees for 2004 are now due. The membership fees are: Gents  ?65; Ladies  ?55; Family  ?100; Student  ?45; Juveniles  ?25; O/66  ?35.	The membership fees includes the Committee meeting: A committee meeting will be held on Monday week next, January 19th at 8 o’clock. All committee members are asked to attend. Membership fees: Membership fees for 2004 are now due. The membership fees are: Gents – ?65; Ladies – ?55; Family – ?100; Student – ?45; Juveniles – ?25; O/66 – ?35. The membership fees includes the registration fee of 13 which allows players to play in competitions throughout the country. Membership fees can be paid to the treasurer, Sean Minogue or the assistant treasurer, Victor Long at C.I.E.  Nenagh Singers Circle Cashel based, singer / songwriter Billy O'Dwyer (Bob) is our special guest on Friday January 9th in the Dapp Inn at 9.30 pm. Anybody who was present at his last visit, which was impromptu, would have heard some of the songs which feature in his first CD "The Time Has Come". There are some excellent songs on this CD including "'Til you walk a while in someone else's shoes" and the title track along with "The Bright Side of the Moon" which was recently recorded by Louise Morrissey on her new album One More Time. He is currently recording his second album "I’ll See you Tonight in My Dreams" which will be launched in the spring of 2004.  Athletes visit Nenagh A group of about 30 athletes and their families from New South Wales visited the Nenagh Olympic Indoor complex on Monday night last. They were shown around the complex by Nenagh’s former Olympic coach, Sean Naughton and they trained with some of the local athletes who turned up to welcome them.  Have a heart: give money A Nenagh man who was restored to good health through a heart bypass operation is heading a local initiative to raise money for better health services for heart patients. John O’ Connor from Sarsfield Street and his friends will be out in force on the streets of the town later this month to collect money for the Mater Hospital Heart House. A church gate collection in Nenagh will be held on January 31 and February 1 and a street collection will be held on February 6-7. The Mater’s new Heart House will be open on February 3 next.  Nenagh CBS band The Nenagh C.B.S. band were busy over the Christmas. On Sunday 21st December they performed for the residents of the Manor Nursing Home and Nenagh General Hospital. Then on the following day they visited St. Conlon’s Community Nursing Unit and Rivervale Nursing Home. The band received great applause on all occasions and they wish to thank the matron and staffs of each hospital for their generosity and friendship shown to them. On Christmas Eve they played at the Vigil Mass in St. John’s, Tyone. The Chairperson and commitee members take this opportunity to sincerely thank all who supported the band in any way during 2003.  Patricks Day Parade A public meeting organised by the Nenagh St. Patrick's Day Parade committee will be held in the Abbey Court Hotel, Nenagh on next Tuesday 13th January at 8.30 p.m. Anyone interested in becoming involved is welcome to attend.  Ballinaclough I.C.A. Guild Our last meeting was held on December 15th. Congratulations to Kathleen Moloney of Nenagh Guild who won the Federation Final of the Healthy Eating Competition. We passed a vote of sympathy with Ann Purcell and Templederry Guild on the death of Mrs. Vickers. Our next meeting is on Monday 12th January 2004. Hostesses Mary Forde and Maura. Prize Maura. Competition: The most unusual foreign stamp. We wish everyone a healthy and a peaceful 2004.  SRBG CD winners Winners of the SRBG CD “First Offence” in our recent competition are: Eileen Gaynor, Kilruane and Caitriona Gleeson, Kilboy, Silvermines. The prizes may be collected at 
‘The Guardian’ office.  Gurteen Badminton Club There was great success for Gurteen in the Tipperary Double Championships, which were held in Colaiste Phobal Roscrea before Christmas. The Div. 6 men’s title was won by Stuart Platt and Enda Hogan and Stuart and John Callanan were runners up in the Division 5 final. Vienna Wiley and Leanne Platt won the Div 5 ladies title. Paul Quinlan and Karen Smith won the Ladies 2nd Div. title. Dolores Cahalan teamed up with Sinead Carson to win 3rd Div. title. Olivia Cahalan and Pauline Brennan were runners up in the Division 6 ladies. In the South West Doubles C’ships, Ger Fox and P.J. Killeen were narrowly beaten in the semi-final in grade 3. In the Grade 2 Mixed C’ships played at Carlow last week, Karen Smith and Cormac O’Connor have qualified for the final which will be played in Carlow in two weeks. On the team front, the Division 5/6 Shield team beat Templemore in the playoff before Christmas, have now to face Roscrea in a semi-final. The Division 2 South West team drew four all in their last game before Christmas against Kildare.  As more and more services are made available on the internet, a serious risk emerges for those people without access to the internet or without internet skills. This will happen more and more as technology progresses. Those people without the required skills run the risk of being seriously disadvantaged and isolated This scenario has been given a name – the Digital Divide, the gap between the haves and have nots. A bank in a small village may shut down but most of the services will still be available online and accessible anywhere on the planet. Those people without internet skills will continue to queue for services, others will sit at a computer and among other things renew their motor tax, check their bank balance, buy cheap airline tickets and connect with online communities. Even Sunday Mass has moved online, the housebound can now log on to a service at any time. This divide will become more pronounced after March 2004, when Nenagh will finally have access to broadband (fast, relatively cheap, alway on internet access). This will greatly enhance the existing online services and encourage many more services to move online. With the upcoming Nenagh E Town project in mind, the Dept. of Social and Family Affairs were delighted to get involved in a computer training programme for customers in the Nenagh area. The response to the offer of training at a reduced cost has been unbelievable. This has resulted in a bank of people with a high level of computer skills to offer. We would like to thank P.C. Training, Kenyon St., Nenagh for providing the training and Nenagh Credit Union for their continued support of the programme. The Department of Social and Family Affairs and Nenagh Credit Union have worked together during the year 2003 to address this issue. A series of computer courses have been funded by the Department and Credit Union. These courses are specifically designed to address the Digital Divide and provide people with basic to advanced internet skills. The Eskills course provides the skills necessary for efficient web browsing and email use and is designed for people who are new to the internet. This course introduces the participants to numerous websites such as the Reach Project (Irish Government Online), internet banking, paying bills online, Revenue online, Social Welfare online, etc. A total of seventy people availed of the Eskills course which was fully funded by the Department of Social and Family Affairs. A computer was sponsored by Nenagh Credit Union and raffled amongst the participants. The Ecert course covered more advanced topics such as introduction to web design, multimedia online, online communities through newsgroups, mailing list and instant messaging, security online, wireless internet, uploading, downloading and installing programs from the internet. This course was half funded by the Department of Social and Family Affairs and each stuent who took the final exam was given a bonus payment of ?50 each from Nenagh Credit Union. This project is one of the many training opportunities available on an individual or group basis through the Employment Support Services of the Department. The local contact person is Margaret Egan (087) 2308530 who attends the Nenagh office on Tuesday mornings. 
