online
{ By Aoife Moore, Press Association 
    March 04 2019 01:02 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/breaking-news/irish-news/minister-to-introduce-online-safety-act-37876129.html }
The Communications Minister has said he will introduce a new Online Safety Act to protect people online. The long-awaited legislation will include the introduction of an Online Safety Commissioner with powers to fine social media companies that fail to remove harmful content such as targeted abuse and eating disorder promotion. The commissioner will also ensure that large digital media companies introduce an Online Safety Code, which must undergo approval by the commissioner and be regularly reviewed and updated. I’ve believed for some time now that self-regulation is not adequate in this area, we need to see good codes but see them continually updated, and overseen by a regulatorRichard Bruton Speaking at St Brigid’s School in Glasnevin, Dublin, minister Richard Bruton said the law would ensure large digital social media companies are not just regulating themselves. “It’s really important companies have these (digital safety) codes but it’s not enough to rely on the companies to decide whether they’re good enough,” he said. “I’ve believed for some time now that self-regulation is not adequate in this area, we need to see good codes but see them continually updated, and overseen by a regulator.” The Bill also allows for a more comprehensive complaint procedure for users and will alert the commissioner to any alleged dereliction of duty by companies. It is hoped the Bill will make strides in tackling cyber bullying and ensuring harmful content is removed from social media. The Government has been looking closely at Australia’s pursuit of improved internet safety as an example. The Bill will be brought forward to the Oireachtas following a six-week consultation period, however Mr Bruton could not give a definitive date for when it would be implemented. “We’re probably at a pass mark in internet safety but we want to get to the honours bracket,” the minister said. “This technology has exploded and governments have not caught up yet. “Parents particularly are worried about inappropriate material being online. “There’s good practice out there but not good enough and it should be overseen by someone. “Companies should be thinking ahead and the introduction of an Online Safety Commissioner can urge companies to think harder about that.” After a number of questions from young students, Mr Bruton said that people are forming opinions online now before waiting for proof. “Generally we’ve to learn how to use these technologies, we all worry about people forming instant opinions as a result of online activity. “We’re not going to turn back the clock but it’s important we equip ourselves to use our head and not accept everything as true.” In terms of individuals being prosecuted for continued abuse online, the minister said the Justice Department is strengthening legislation in that area to ensure the issue can be tackled on an individual prosecution level. PA Media 
