online
{ CHARLIE WESTON 
    July 21 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/latest-news/flights-of-fancy-avoid-those-nasty-extra-charges-26552521.html }
IT is one of the most frustrating aspects about booking a flight these days: there is usually a huge difference between the price advertised and the price you end up paying. This discrepancy arises because airport taxes and charges are sometimes not to be included in the price quoted, there are a raft of other charges such as credit card handling fees, and you can be hit for an excess baggage charge if your baggage is too big or over the weight limit. Lately airlines like Ryanair have started to impose €40 charges on passengers who do not check in online and instead check in at the airport. All of this adds to the cost of flying and can mean that what you thought would be a good value fare very quickly turns into a large expense. And it is becoming very difficult to work out just how to negotiate the maze of additional fees and charges imposed by airlines on hard-pressed flyers. Here are some tips on how to avoid being stung and to help cut the cost of flying. Be flexible when booking If you avoid peak-time travelling you are more likely to get a good value flight, especially with the likes of Aer Lingus and Ryanair. Choose flights at periods of lower demand, and try not to book flights for Fridays when a lot of people want to take to the skies. Promotional charge Seat sales are better value than you think, especially with Ryanair. The self-styled low cost airline has around one million promotional flights on offer on its website each week. Not only are these flights cheap, the price quoted also includes airport taxes and charges, which is not always the case when you book a flight which is not part of a promotion or seat sale. One other big advantage of a Ryanair promotional flight is you avoid a nasty little charge called a "web check-in". This is charged even if you do check in online. It works out at €5 per flight (€10 per return flight). Ryanair says it has around one million promotional flights on offer a week on ryanair.com. Aer Lingus does not have this "web check-in" charge. Baggage Stockbroker NCB reckons it costs Ryanair just €1.17 to process a bag, but that does not stop the Michael O'Leary-run airline charging a small fortune for bags. Aer Lingus too piles on the charges here. All of the following airlines allow you to carry on just one bag onto the airplane: Aer Arann, BMI, Aer Lingus, Air France, Ryanair, BMI Baby, Flybe and British Airways. However, the size and weight of the bag you are allowed to take onboard varies greatly. Exceed the size and weight and you can expect to pay punitive excess baggage charges. Aer Lingus will allow a bag that is 6kg and no more than 56cm x 45cm x 25cm. Ryanair allows you a bag that is 10kg, and 55cm x 40cm x 20cm. The airline has taken to checking sizes of bags before customers are allowed to board, and charges €30 for a second piece of hang luggage. Remember, a bottle of wine weighs more than 1kg. When it comes to check-in baggage, severe restrictions apply on most airlines. The trick here is use online check-in facilities for the bags going into the hold. Ryanair charges €10 for each bag (each way), with the maximum weight for each bag of 15kg. But check in the bag at the airport and it is €20 per bag. Excess baggage is charged at €15 per kilo. With Aer Lingus you can check in bags of no more than 20kg on short-haul (6kg for hand baggage). But a charge of €18 for each bag one way applies. Online check-in costs €12. The excess baggage charge is €9 per kg online, and €12 at airport. One way to ensure you don't exceed your weight for checked-in baggage going into the hold is to get a weighing scales. These are hooked on the handle of your case and can be bought for as little as €4.99. Charter airlines allow 20kg, but charge €6 to €8 for excess baggage. Online check-in Airlines want you to check in online because it is cheaper for them. Aside from the special terms surrounding Ryanair promotional flights, customers will be charged €5 for checking in online. But if you forget to check in online or simply can't, then Ryanair charges €40 per customer for airport check in. The airline defends this by pointing out that the charge is so high that people will only ever get caught once. With Ryanair you can check in online and print outward and return boarding passes two weeks before and four hours before flight. There is no online check in charge with Aer Lingus, BMI, Air France, Flybe and British Airways. But BMI Baby does have a €3.99 charge for online check in and €13 for airport check in. 
