online
{  
    July 21 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/latest-news/submitting-tax-returns-good-net-result-26552522.html }
THERE may still be some weeks to go before the Revenue's "D-Days" in October and November, but now is a good time to think about filing your self-assessment tax return for 2008 if you want to save money. Approximately 580,000 people are required to file a self-assessment tax return, known as Form 11. Most of these people, put off by what they perceive to be a difficult or incredibly dull task, will hire accountants to file their tax returns for them. Furthermore, instead of using an accountant to learn how to do it the first time, many of them will get into the habit of passing it on to them every year. According to a Revenue spokeswoman, approximately 70pc of self-assessment taxpayers file their returns through an accountant or agent. But if you want to save money, the good news is that doing it yourself may be a lot easier than you think. "Completing tax returns is not that difficult," says Cathal Maxwell of Paylesstax.ie. "The size of the form is what tends to put people off. In fact most of the questions on the tax forms do not apply to the vast majority of people and completion of the form is easier than it looks." In addition, the Revenue Online Service (ROS) has made the filing of tax returns a lot easier and quicker. Those who file online also have the distinct advantage of not needing to file until November 17, instead of October 31. ROS was launched in 2000, but today more than half of all self-assessment taxpayers who file are doing so online. According to the Revenue, well over 300,000 returns were received through its online service before the deadline last year. "This represented over 76pc of customers who filed their returns in time, and an increase of 2pc over the figure achieved in 2007," the spokeswoman said. Filing online is also likely to be more accurate than if you filed a paper return because the ROS links directly with the Revenue's computer system, whereas staff using the paper system will input the data manually, which means errors are more likely. Most people who file a Form 11 would be self-employed, but even if you are a PAYE worker you may still need to file this form if you receive "significant" income from outside your normal employment. Examples of this include: if you earn rent from a buy-to-let property, dividends from a share portfolio, or receive maintenance payments from a spouse. However, according to the Revenue, if your non-PAYE income is not significant, you may only need to fill in a Form 12. You may even be able to file the details without having to file a tax return. A separate system from ROS, the Revenue's PAYE anytime online service was launched in 2006 and is an easy way for PAYE workers to claim their tax credits or declare additional income. You may need to fill in a Form 12 in order to claim some of the less common tax credits that cannot be claimed online. You can get tax credits for contributions to a pension scheme or BES scheme, or for property-based incentive credits or for a refund of tuition fees. However, unlike Form 11, Form 12 cannot be filed online, which means the deadline remains October 31. And if you receive a Form 11 in the post from the Revenue, the form must be completed and returned, or filed online through ROS. If you are planning to file a Form 11 online, remember that you will need to register for ROS beforehand, a three-stage process that takes at least eight working days. "Applying to become a ROS customer is done online, but for security reasons the RAN (ROS Access Number) and ROS Passwords are sent separately by landmail to the registered address on our Revenue records," said the spokeswoman. Of course, doing your own tax return may be fine if your tax affairs are simple, but how can you decide when your tax affairs are complicated enough that you risk getting it wrong in doing it yourself? This may be an issue if you are filing a tax return yourself for the first time, so the best advice would be to attempt it yourself and then have an accountant check it or go over it with you. You should learn enough in doing this that you won't need an accountant in future years. Another option is to visit a website like paylesstax.ie, which offers online tax calculators, a tutorial and advice on filing tax returns for an annual fee. A tax return checking service and once-off tax consultations are also available at extra cost. 
