online
{ Deirdre Reynolds 
    July 25 2008 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/technology/the-celtic-tiger-is-alive-and-well-in-cyberspace-26464463.html }
There was a time when kinky toys and naughty knickers were the only things that red-faced shoppers had smuggled to their doorstep through the secrecy of online shopping. But from designer dresses to vintage jewellery and the latest It-bag, girls are now using the web to splash out on all the things they desperately want the neighbours to see. Online shopping-sprees across the country leaped from €102m in 2003 to €373m last year. And that figure is expected to climb further this year as fears over credit card security are quelled, businesses add online shops to their sites and broadband spreads to every corner of the land. Style surfers have caused online fashion sales to soar by 40pc in the past year here; it might be all doom and gloom on the high street, but the Celtic Tiger is still alive and purring in cyberspace when it comes to clothes. And we're not just talking about past season seconds on eBay or celeb knock-offs on sites such as ASOS (As Seen On Screen) here. Online clothes shopping has suddenly become posh rather than penny-pinching, with sites dedicated to designer duds springing up in droves. Ireland's latest exclusive e-store is Click-2-Couture.com. Set up by Cork woman Rachel O'Leary last year, the site is bulging with brands like Roberto Cavalli, Gucci, Dolce & Gabbana and Marc Jacobs at reduced rates. "When I moved to Italy in 2004, suddenly I was able to buy quality items by all the top Italian designers that I couldn't afford in Dublin. I upgraded my entire wardrobe with Miu Miu, Prada and Armani," she says. "When I looked to return home in 2006, the opportunity to set up a high-end designer outlet here seemed glaringly obvious. And with the increasing use of the internet, hyper-inflation in the luxury goods market and the limited availability of designer labels here, it made sense to set up online." She found that Irish women can't get enough of virtual retail therapy. "The response to date has been incredible," she says. "We officially launched in April and had over 620,000 hits in our first month. Since then, there's been a 300pc monthly increase in traffic to the site. "We sold out of our Gucci evening-wear collection in three days and Miu, Miu, Marc Jacobs and Dolce & Gabbana are firm favourites. "Shoes in the €300-plus price range are one of our best-sellers; a lot of male customers will buy them as presents for their wife or girlfriend." And it's the same story all across cyberspace. Internet shopping firm ASOS has been the runaway success story to date. While online sales of clothing and footwear rose by an average of 40pc in the last 12 months, the site saw a staggering 90pc increase in takings, making its turnover for the year to April top €100m. The site has made its fortune by flogging fashion worn by the stars; rather than traipsing the high street for a handbag they saw slung over the shoulder of Sienna Miller in a magazine, now they can buy an entire outfit styled on the look of the actress at the click of a mouse. Another fashion website which has prospered is My-wardrobe.com, which reported a 143pc surge in sales after its second year of trading. Most recently, dedicated followers of fashion here can also peruse investment pieces at Portobello Road without clocking up their carbon footprint. The fancy London market favoured by fashion insiders and celebs, such as Mischa Barton, is the latest entrant into the world of prêt-a-porter. Found at pretaportobello.com, it even allows shoppers to haggle with virtual stallholders. Meanwhile, other fashion forward sites have come up with techie techniques to allow customers to 'touch' and 'try on' the garment before they buy. And Click-2-couture boss Rachel reckons such technological advancements are the key to helping fashion sites outstrip the high street in the future. "Fashion websites are faster and offer more exciting features than ever before," she said. "Online security has also improved greatly in recent years both on the part of the sites and credit card issuers -- and I think that has boosted consumer confidence. "Internet shoppers these days tend to be savvy buyers; they want choice, lower prices and convenience. "More and more people are seeing the internet as an attractive alternative to traffic congestion, limited parking, fuel costs, crowds and poor levels of customer service -- not to mention, doing it all over again if you have to return something." But for die-hard shopaholics, the convenience of e-shopping can never replace the buzz of the real thing, according to Niall Kitson, editor of PC Live! magazine. "Half the fun of high-street shopping is the ritual," he said. "The online shopping experience cannot replace the sheer fun of browsing, trying things on, going for lunch and handing over real cash at the till -- especially for women." However, he reckons the phenomenon has yet to peak as Generation X-box enters the workplace and starts splashing the cash. "Children growing up with the idea of online shopping will think nothing about going online to get a bargain," Niall said. " I think it will become their first port of call. Ask a 10-year old where they will do their shopping and I think they will say, 'online'." 
