online
{  
    November 08 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/on-line-trading-sparks-a-hi-tech-gold-rush-26131282.html }
The lure of instant riches is hard to resist, but the apparent speed and convenience of trading stocks and shares over the Internet have hidden pitfalls, warns Gavin Herlihy AT THE click of a button, fortunes are made, empires built and bills paid. At least that's what the advertisements tell you, but in the US where dreams of the high life are two a penny, the road to financial freedom starts and ends at your on-line broker. Such is the fever sweeping the US that nearly 35 percent of all trades are now made on-line with 50 percent of households in the US owning stock. Driving it all is the rush to the Internet. The information superhighway is the conduit for the greatest gold rush this century and on-line trading companies like Schwabb and E*Trade are where many Americans are pinning their financial dreams. Offering rock bottom trading fees and a mine of financial information to go with it, cutting the middleman out and trading on-line has opened the markets up to a whole new culture of stock trading. Gone are the days of investing faith in the capable (you hoped) hands of your broker. Now investors trade stocks to their hearts content instantly over the web with a mine of information at their fingertips. With the market for on-line trading yawning wider and wider, on-line brokers have already begun homing in on European markets offering trading services for domestic markets as well as those in the US. ``The growth rate has been absolutely phenomenal,'' says Nigel Reynolds, Director of Charles Schwabb Europe. ``It's really shaking up the market here and making people realise that maybe this equity investing isn't such a mystery after all.'' Analysts project that by 2002 eight million Europeans will be taking charge of their investments on-line a far cry from the old days. ``The market was previously thought to be the preserve of old school ties in the city. Now everyone's realising it's fairly simple and fairly logical and not much harder than deciding between what type of car to buy. You just need to apply a bit of logic, a bit of common sense, do your research and make your investment,'' says Reynolds. Trouble is, experts say, many investors are forgetting to look before they leap. Jeff Fischer, senior analyst with US financial information company, The Motley Fool, blames it on marketing hype. ``The excitement of the Internet has really driven all sorts of people to the markets here to make the money they hear everybody else is making. The danger in that, of course, is not understanding that wealth is not created easily,'' says Fischer. Some critics have likened on-line trading to glorified gambling, saying the rock bottom rates and financial temptations some companies offer encourage day trading. Fuelled by traders buying and selling aggressively to capitalise on the slightest price movements (a practice glorified by Charlie Sheen in the 80s Oscar winner, Wall Street), day trading can be a great way to lose money fast. US day trader Mark Barton learned this lesson the hard way. His gun massacre of 12 people in Atlanta earlier this year, police suspect, was prompted by losses totalling over $500,000. According to a report by US financial guru Don Johnson to the NASDAQ stock exchange, 70 percent of day trades will not only lose but will almost certainly lose everything they invest. By allowing traders to trade real-time and for next to nothing, some Internet brokers have capitalised on this trend by catering directly for aggressive trading tactics. `ON-LINE trading has lured a lot of young people into gambling on the stock market,'' Johnson adds. ``I get all kinds of letters from people who appear to know very little about the markets and don't even have the brains enough to find the reports on those subjects on my web page.'' The mind behind the popular Discount Brokers Ranked site, his web page ranks brokerage firms in order of reliability and value for money. Surprisingly enough, popular discount on-line brokers in the US such as E*Trade haven't been coming up with the goods. ``With E*Trade, they cover the gamut from slow service to sloppy and impolite service, to the website being down, poor accounting, long waits for phone service the list is just too long,'' says Johnson. Consumer worries over crashing servers, security and other technical hitches have been the greatest obstacle for on-line brokers to overcome. In response, many companies have spent millions overhauling computer networks and updating customer service in an effort to reassure clients. Dan Burke senior analyst with US Internet financial consultants Gomez Advisors says it's a battle many companies are winning. Investing know-how it seems is more of a priority for the novice. ``E*Trade is only as good as the decisions being made by the investor,'' he says. ``There are tools to help you come to a decision but ultimately the customer has to make the decision.'' Taking on the world of stock trading without the reassuring words of your broker as guidance is a task Burke says many investors should not take lightly.  ``It's important that investors are honest with themselves in terms of how much risk they can handle. It's very easy to get lured into thinking you can make money quickly but that doesn't always happen, so investors need to look realistically at their financial picture and the type of investor they are.'' 
