online
{  
    January 07 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/cao-application-online-or-paper-26019392.html }
ALL applicants have a choice of method of CAO application, either online or  by pen and paper. CAO advises on page one of the application handbook that online application is the preferred method of application as it enables applicants to avoid errors which they might make if they were to use a paper application. CAO's website is www.cao.ie. Once you click on to the website, you may go through the process of a demonstration dummy run. Just click "demo" and you are taken through each step of the application. It costs less overall to apply online than it does to use a paper application. The normal fee in 2004 for an online applicant is ?30 euro as against ?40 for a paper CAO applicant. Applicants who apply after February 1 pay higher fees, but a late online application will still cost less, at ?60 euro than a late paper application (?80). The latest date for a CAO application is May 1. The information sought on either the online application or the paper applications is the same. Standard applicants can complete their whole application process online. Online applicants who are required to complete pages three and four (Part B) of the application form should follow the instructions which will appear on their screen about the submission by post of any additional documentation. Payment of CAO application fee: Applicants using the paper application form must pay their application fee through a bank. A three-part application fee payment form is included with the CAO application pack. Part three of the form is a bank giro form and is retained by the bank. The bank must stamp parts one and two of the form. Applicants must return part one of the form (duly stamped) to CAO, and retain part two for their own record as evidence of payment. CAO offers an online payment facility that cuts out the need for the trip to the bank. Online applicants may use a MasterCard or Visa credit card or a Laser card to pay the fee. There is an additional credit or other card transaction fee of ?2. Alternatively, they may pay by bank giro and key in the sequence number of their application fee payment form on their online application. 
