online
{ Eddie Lennon  @@STYL xh 
    December 12 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/banking-at-fingertip-online-gives-instant-access-26023929.html }
Join the electronic age and do your banking remotely on your computer. Most services can be accessed online, saving you  time and money Join the electronic age and do your banking remotely on your computer. Most services can be accessed online, saving you time and money, writes EDDIE LENNON ONE of the buzzwords of personal finance these days is online banking banking at your fingertips, courtesy of the electronic age. But how much of an advantage is it and what do the various banks offer? One of the obvious advantages is that, with the more comprehensive banking websites, you get access to your account 24 hours a day, 7 days a week no queues, car parking or traffic jams. Electronic transactions, with AIB for example, are often cheaper than transactions at your local branch: 22c, rather than 30c. Paying your bills can also be a time consuming endeavour, but many banks now allow you to pay your bills online, and you can easily monitor all your transactions and spending on laser and credit cards. Irish banking websites come in two forms: those on which you can carry out a wide range of banking activities, and those which act as online brochures for their business. GENERAL BANKING Many bank customers can now avail of a huge variety of round the clock, online banking. At AIB's website, certainly one of the most comprehensive ones, you can view all your accounts online. You can request a balance on your account or credit card, or check recent transactions on your account. You can even search your cheque transactions, or request a statement . And because the service is online, the account information is always up to date. You can also transfer funds between accounts in AIB and those you may have in other Irish banks. At Bank of Ireland's website, you can do all of this and also customise your statements and play around with your banking data to compare this year's spending to the same period last year. As well as providing a comprehensive range of general banking, Ulster Bank customers can drag their personal banking information into a money management programme such as Quicken. Permanent tsb also allows you access to your account via its website. PAYING BILLS Many financial institutions, including AIB, allow you to pay your bills online, to providers such as the ESB, Eircom, Bord Gais, NTL and Vodafone. SECURE SHOPPING AIB's online shopping uses a new technology, transactonline, which generates a unique, disposable credit card number that is valid for one use only. The software is free to anyone registered for online banking with AIB. Ulster Bank also allows you to shop securely online. BUYING SHARES Only one bank, AIB, allows you buy shares online. You can buy and sell more than 2,300 stocks from the comfort of your own computer. Online dealing dispenses with almost all the paper documents associated with traditional share dealing, which makes transactions faster and simpler. Your account is instantly credited for any shares you sell, and instantly debited for any you buy. With AIB's Market Monitor, you can access the latest market information in the form of share graphs, news and market reports. You should be aware, though, that AIB does not offer any advice as to which shares to buy or sell. You can take a test drive at www.aib.ie/sharedealing. There's a helpful list of frequently asked questions, and a glossary of stock market terms. To qualify for online share dealing with AIB, you must register as a user of AIB's 24-hour online internet banking service, and have a current account. CAR FINANCE Car finance is well represented on the websites of Irish banks. AIB gives its customers quotations. You can even apply for a car loan online. The site has information on new car prices, and locations of the main motor dealers. Bank of Ireland also gives quotes and process motor loans, and has a motor loan calculator showing you your repayments. Ulster Bank, permanent tsb and First Active also have online car finance features. MORTGAGES Mortgages is huge business these days. So it's no surprise that most Irish banks' websites have a section devoted to them. Several sites have financial calculators. And you can even apply for a mortgage on some sites. AIB has an online facility that gives you quick quotes and enables to apply for a mortgage online. Information is available on rates, products and insurance, and there's a lot of useful information and advice. Permanent tsb's Irish Mortgage Centre (on www.yahoo.co.uk) is similarly comprehensive. There's even a 'jargon buster', and regular commentary on Irish house prices. First Active customers can use FA's website for budgeting in relation to loans or mortgages, and there are several calculators also for easy reckoning. LOANS & PENSIONS Most websites don't allow you to apply for a loan. AIB and Bank of Ireland customers can apply for a loan online. With AIB, you can apply at 24hour-online.ie. The banks that allow you to apply online generally give you 'approval in principle' for a loan. They can't approve you fully when you apply online, since Irish law does not currently accept digital loan applications so you have to have the loan approved at a bank branch or over the phone. Their sites can also tell you if these banks would approve you for a loan or not. EBS specialises in home loan and commercial lending, so its online services concentrate on providing information on getting a loan. These loans can be for personal use/cars etc. They can be applied for online but are only available when secured on an EBS mortgage. ONLINE BANKING - HOW MUCH DOES IT COST? There is an account maintenance fee of up to ?20 per year with most accounts in most banks - and online banking is no exception. After that, you pay per transaction, whether it be in the bank or online. But with AIB, transactions cost 22c each, compared with paper-based transactions, which cost 30c each assuming you're not exempt from fees. Otherwise, it's free to register. Bank of Ireland charges the same for online banking as it does for branch banking. Ulster Bank charges 5c to 23c each for online transactions. Extra charges may apply, however, for more complex transactions. 
