online
{  
    March 19 2013 04:01 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/is-this-the-end-of-courtship-29138415.html }
The Americans are in mourning. Dating, a cherished institution in the romantically officious US, is dead, and its obituary has been published in no less an institution than The New York Times. In a provocative article, the newspaper lamented how social media has enabled last-minute, drink-fuelled hook-ups to take the place of traditional courtship rituals, and sympathised with the humiliation of a generation of skinny-jeaned urban hipsters whose only way of romancing one another is via pathetic late-night weekend 'booty' texts. "Instead of dinner and a movie, which seems as obsolete as a rotary phone, they rendezvous over phone texts, Facebook posts, instant messages and other non-dates that are leaving a generation confused about how to land a boyfriend or girlfriend," sobbed the paper. In other words, technology has turned American twenty-somethings into Irish people. 'Non-dates' have been a hallmark of romantic life here since time began; we are world experts in not asking one another out, global leaders in studiously ignoring people we fancy. Instead of actually seeking a date with the object of our affections, we live in hope that we might accidentally bump into them in the pub some night – hopefully with a few pints on board. We've always dismissed dating as too formal, too well planned, too organised, too . . . American. And now even the Americans are giving up on it, thanks to the casual, last-minute thrills on offer online. Once seen as the holy grail for lonely hearts, can it be that the internet – with its endlessly spiralling opportunities for connection – is killing romance altogether? "Technology is fantastic, but it has stunted people's social skills," says Stephen Nolan (28), a dating coach and CEO of Kama Lifestyles, which offers advice and workshops for singletons looking for love. "People used to go out and visit their neighbours, or go down the pub, and they knew everyone in their area. Now they're at home online. I come from Wexford and I knew everyone where I grew up, but now I live in Sandymount and I barely know my neighbours. "Even when you walk down the street, people are avoiding talking to one another and they're constantly on their iPhones instead." Stephen advises his dating clients to get out from behind their computer screen and forge one-to-one connections with as many people as possible, increasing their chances of finding that special someone. He argues that you're far more likely to have a genuine rapport with someone you meet face-to-face than the person you've spent months chatting to online. "It's a completely different dynamic," he says. "The chemistry that you have with someone online could evaporate within five seconds when  you meet them face to face." And yet it is easy to see the appeal of the internet. The sheer volume of profiles on myriad dating websites offers a seemingly infinite number of potential partners. But an abundance of choice brings its own problems. In a recent article in The Atlantic, writer Dan Slater argued that the endless romantic possibilities offered online have proved the enemy of monogamy and commitment. Instead of helping you find the person of your dreams, dating sites hint that there is always someone better around the corner, making it virtually impossible to commit to any one person. Slater asks: "What if online dating makes it too easy to meet someone new? What if it raises the bar for a good relationship too high? What if the prospect of finding an ever-more-compatible mate with the click of a mouse means a future of relationship instability, in which we keep chasing the elusive rabbit around the dating track?" Web designer David (pictured above) has wasted many hours looking for love on online dating sites. "I spent a lot of time on computers, I registered on loads of dating sites, I emailed people back and forwards – but it just got really frustrating and it never worked out. "Lots of people ask you a tonne of questions online to try and get to know you, and you'd be looking forward to meeting them. But when you met in person, there would be no chemistry." No chemistry and no good reason to pursue the relationship with an inbox full of further connections to investigate. Frustrated with the amount of time he'd wasted, David decided to try a different tack – Facebook. "I'd message lots of random girls," he says. "I'd flirt with them to see how they'd respond, and if they flirted back I'd ask them out. "But then we'd arrange to go out for a drink, and they'd cancel at the last minute. It was all too casual and it was really frustrating." "It's really hard now to meet someone because there are so many options for people online, they don't put in the effort any more," says Olwyn Boyle, a 31-year-old actress, who quit internet dating in disgust after one too many unsolicited photos of naked men arrived in her inbox. "Online there are too many people looking for one-night stands, but if you want to invest something more in a relationship, it's really hard to find that person," she adds. "I've made more friends through online dating than I have made romantic connections." Phil Gormley (39), a psychotherapist with Access Counselling in Crumlin, says he has treated clients who have become addicted to the online chase, spending huge chunks of time glued to their laptops chasing the perfect partner. "Some of my clients are spending three or four hours on different sites, and there's  a buzz there for them. If  their laptops break, they freak  out. Even dates themselves can be addictive behaviour, if you're dealing with someone who has an addictive personality." Phil himself joined a number of dating websites, but found the artifice of getting to know someone online unsettling. He suspected that people were tailoring their answers to suit the profiles of the people they were engaging with. "You were constantly trying to think, how will I answer this question about myself? It was uncomfortable, and I realised there was no reality in that.  In person, you'd just tell the  truth. "Personally, I stopped internet dating and abandoned Facebook. It was a waste of time. I've started salsa dancing instead." Irish Independent 
