online
{  
    April 13 2011 11:41 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/news/effective-marketing-within-a-budget-27642541.html }
Q . MOST OF my competitors have stopped their marketing activity over the last year due to the slowdown. As a result, I feel the time is right to market my business. I don't have much of a marketing budget, however, and I want to look professional and make an impact. What are my options? A . Marketing activity at a time of economic slowdown makes sense. As you point out, most companies cut back on marketing during a recession, which creates an opportunity for those who do invest in promotional activities to stand out and place themselves at the forefront of peoples' minds when spending picks up. The other side of the coin is that it can be hard to find a marketing budget during tough times. Luckily, technological advancements counteract this by offering low cost ways of promoting a product/service and building a brand online. I would advise you to mix old with new and to be innovative in your approach. Consider the following: GET YOURSELF CONNECTED Business networking opportunities are now prolific due to the rapid increase in internet usage. There are hundreds of free ways to network online, with LinkedIn probably the most popular in terms of offering an online source of professional contacts (www.linkedin.com). Make sure you are listed and that you have an up-to-date profile that is 100% complete, including references from customers and suppliers. The best way to get people to provide you with a reference is to give them one first. Consider other online networks too – there are many that are specific to industries, as well as to company size; for example, www.smallbusinesscan.com is a site that helps small business owners and entrepreneurs build contacts. The important thing about joining any network is to be active, contribute to discussions and forums and reply to requests for advice, with the aim of building a network of contacts that, hopefully, will generate referrals. This means it is necessary to select with care the business networks that are most suited to your business, in order to avoid wasting time in unproductive or irrelevant communications. CO-ORDINATE AN ONLINE MEDIA CAMPAIGN The great thing about the online media tools that have emerged in recent years is that they are free or low cost. But their usage must be planned and controlled. The best way to do this is to put together a campaign. Decide who you want to target, what you want to say to them and how you are going to do it. The starting point should be your own company website – it needs to be up-to-date, easy to read and relevant to your customer. All online activity should lead back to your website as a place to find out more about your company and the product/service you are offering. Also, it should act as an online brochure that you want people who are looking for someone with your expertise to find easily and quickly. This means those responsible for creating your website should pay careful attention to keywords and structure so that it features highly in online searches. Having a blog on your site is a good way of keeping it active and interesting, as are video presentations that can be created from most digital cameras and uploaded via YouTube. Once your own site is up to scratch, you can look at online media such as: Facebook - this is a good way of targeting consumers and students; Twitter - this is for sharing links and useful information and can position you as an expert in your field LinkedIn and the networking sites and forums you have selected to use; and, potentially, an email newsletter. Be consistent, keep your messages in line with the objectives you set out for your campaign, and always include your web address/blog. DON'T NEGLECT OFFLINE ACTIVITY While online marketing is low cost and can certainly get you in front of a lot of people, it is unwise to neglect offline (real world) marketing and communication. Consider having a presence at networking events, giving talks at seminars, writing in local press and trade journals, and keeping in touch with your customers on a face-to-face basis – and always refer to your online presence. BECOME A TRUSTED SOURCE In today's world of easy access to vast amounts of information, it is about positioning yourself as a trusted source of knowledge by sharing nuggets of useful advice and pointing people in the right direction. Remember to be a positive presence and avoid negative comments. Jim Doyle ACMA QFA is a partner in RDA Accountants offering full accountancy, business advisory, tax advisory and financial services. RDA Accountants | 5 Upper George Street, Wexford | Louisville House, Waterford Road, Kilkenny | 053 91 70507 | www.rda.ie RDA Wealth Ltd trading as RDA Accountants is regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland 
