online
{ Adrian Weckler 
    April 04 2014 11:04 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/what-teenagers-actually-get-up-to-online-30155168.html }
Ask parents about how their teenagers use the internet and many will feign ignorance. But some timely EU research – Net Children Go Mobile – on Irish teen digital behaviour, conducted in conjunction with DIT, reveals a few basic facts that parents can base their future interaction on. 1 Cyberbullying is overwhelmingly a female teen problem Asked about bullying on social networks, there is a massive gap between the experience of boys and girls. Whereas 9pc of teenage girls report some cyberbullying experience on social networks, just 1.2pc of boys say they have shared a similar experience. Separately, anecdotal evidence suggests the vast majority of Irish participants on Ask.FM – which has been implicated in serious cyberbullying more than rival services – are girls between the ages of 12 and 14. 2 'Sexting' is rare among under-15s 90pc of 13- to 14-year-old Irish teens say they have never encountered 'sexting'. This falls to 78pc among 15- and 16-year-olds, while older teenagers' experiences were not measured. 3 Teens enjoy contact with people they've never physically met One in three Irish teenagers is in contact – either through social media, email, messaging or gaming – with someone they don't know offline. 4 Sexual imagery is accessed by teenagers, especially older ones This probably doesn't come as much of a surprise, but 47pc of 15- and 16-year-olds have "seen" sexual imagery online. However, the figure is much lower for 13- and 14-year-olds, 80pc of whom say they have not seen sexual imagery online. 5 Self-harm sites are an issue for teenage girls Whereas only 12pc of teenage boys look at self-harm, pro-anorexia and other such harmful content online, over a third of female teenagers have seen it. The contrast is greatest for eating disorder discussions and websites, with 15-year-old girls seven times more likely to look at such material than similarly aged boys. There is also a substantial gap between the percentage of 15-year-old girls who encounter discussions on suicide compared with their 15-year-old male equivalents. 6 Irish parents are quite active in guiding teens online An overwhelming 77pc of parents talk to their teenage daughters about the pros and cons of various online activities. But just 46pc of parents act in the same way with their teenage sons. Similarly, while 51pc of teenage girls say that their parents are "nearby" when they're online, only 37pc of teenage boys have the same level of supervision. 7 The vast majority of Irish teenagers go online in their bedrooms A whopping 77pc of teens aged 13 to 16 engage in daily internet use in their own bedrooms. It's a private sphere where they can chat, game, exchange photos and explore without parental supervision. 8 Girls use phones, boys use games consoles The EU survey shows that phones are preferred by 61pc of Irish teenage girls for online access, compared with just 44pc for boys. By contrast, 43pc of teenage boys use games consoles for online activity, compared with 3pc of girls. Indo Review 
