online
{ Charlie Weston 
    July 11 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/latest-news/survey-finds-only-14pc-bank-online-26303731.html }
JUST 14pc of adults in Ireland use online banking, despite the fact that some of the best deals are available by using the internet. The low number of internet banking users contrasts with enthusiasm among Irish people for booking holidays and breaks online and buying goods on auction site eBay. Almost two-thirds of people with access to the internet still do not use online banking, according to a survey carried out by Amarach Consulting for Halifax bank. The bank worked out that online banking is used by as few as 14pc of adults in Ireland. This is despite the fact that 43pc of Irish people have access to the internet on a daily basis. Halifax said that take-up of online services is higher among the younger generation, with 40pc of 25-34-year-olds who have access to the internet using online banking. Low broadband penetration was cited by Halifax as the main reason for the slow development of online banking. However, some commentators have pointed to fears about internet security for the slow take-up of online banking among those who have internet access. Figures from telecoms regulator ComReg show that there are some 1.04m internet subscribers in the country. The majority of online banking users (62pc) use it either once a week or two to three times a month. Some 47pc of people bank online to save time, 42pc use it because of the convenience and 30pc because it is hassle-free. The best value savings accounts are available by operating internet accounts. First Active has a new eSavings account offering 5.22pc for lump sums up to €15,000. Also, customers can avail of free banking from many banks by using the internet to operate their current accounts. Meanwhile, another survey shows that 76pc of people are now saving regularly. The survey, commissioned by Standard Life, found that people have been encouraged to save on foot of the Special Savings Incentive Scheme. The research found that 50pc are saving in a deposit account, 37pc are saving into a pension plan and 22pc are saving into a regular savings investment plan. In terms of the nationwide breakdown, the savings culture is highest in Connacht/Ulster with 79pc of those surveyed saving on a regular basis, followed closely by the Rest of Leinster with 78pc. Some 74pc of Dubliners are saving, while Munster has the least percentage of savers at 69pc. 
