online
{  
    February 13 2008 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/children-put-at-risk-by-use-of-personal-details-on-net-26423005.html }
Irish children are increasingly being exposed to risks online because of the level of personal information they disclose over the internet, a new survey shows. Irish nine to 16-year-olds are among the highest in 21 European countries for giving out details such as their full names and email addresses online -- making them a potential target for sex predators and bullies. A high-level of internet safety awareness in Ireland appears to have minimised the risk, but the survey points to potential dangers with strangers they have encountered online. The results of the survey were released to mark the EU-wide Safer Internet Day, which also saw the publication of a new online safety kit for parents, and children in the six to 12-year-old range. Research in Ireland last year found 79pc of 10 to 20-year-olds gave out names or email addresses online, putting them in the top three in Europe, with Poland and the Czech Republic. Information The Irish figure compares with 28pc of nine to 16-year-olds giving out similar information the previous year. As well as 79pc Irish 10-20- year-olds giving out names and email addresses in 2007, 49pc gave their date of birth, 12pc their mobile number and 8pc their home address. The popularity in Ireland of the social networking site Bebo is believed to account for the high proportion of Irish children and teenagers disclosing personal information online. According to the National Council for Technology in Education (NCTE), Bebo differs from other social networking sites in the way it gathers information from users during the registration process. While in the UK, for instance, children use a greater variety of social networking sites, Bebo has a relatively high number of Irish users because it was the first such site to integrate with Irish schools. Bebo is the third most popular website in Ireland after Google.ie and Google.com -- and 10pc of its users are Irish compared with 11pc from the US. The EU Kids Online survey found that 12-17-year-olds in the Czech Republic were most likely to have met online contacts offline, the figure of 67pc compares with about 8pc in other countries. The report notes that in Ireland there has been a rise from 19 pc to 27pc of nine to 16-year-olds who had been asked for personal information from an online stranger. Despite the high level of disclosure in Ireland, the report suggests that the risk has been minimised by greater safety awareness. NCTE internet safety projecty officer Simon Grehan said Ireland was the only country in Europe to have internet safety integrated into the classroom, as it was for Junior Certificate students through the Social Personal and Health Education (SPHE) programme. Opportunities Prof Sonia Livingstone, director of EU Kids Online, based at the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE), said although children and young people were delighted with the opportunities open to them on the internet -- especially for social networking -- many of them were giving out personal information without realising who might see it. "As a result, our research has found substantial amounts of bullying, harassment and unwanted sexual messages, which is very distressing for some," she said. The full report of the EU Kids Online survey will be published in June. Meanwhile Webwise, the NCTE Internet Safety Intiiative, and cable operator UPC, has launched a safety kit for parents and six to 12-year-olds exploring online safety issues and offering advice on how to overcome them. It includes a parents' guide and an activity-based guidebook for children and will be distributed through a range of channels, including the UPC website, libraries and schools. 
