online
{  
    May 05 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/spring-to-head-fexco-bid-as-golf-goes-online-27366845.html }
FORMER Tánaiste Dick Spring is to head the board of FEXCOs latest sharehold acquisition, Online Teetimes Ltd.Killorglin-based FEXCO announced its investment in Online Teetimes Ltd (OTD) on Monday and plans to develop its leadership position as Europes first open, real-time online golf network.Dick Spring, FEXCOs Executive Vice-Chairman, will serve a FORMER Tánaiste Dick Spring is to head the board of FEXCO’s latest sharehold acquisition, Online Teetimes Ltd. Killorglin-based FEXCO announced its investment in Online Teetimes Ltd (OTD) on Monday and plans to develop its leadership position as Europe’s first open, real-time online golf network. Dick Spring, FEXCO’s Executive Vice-Chairman, will serve as OTL’s Chairman. OTL will operate in conjunction with FEXCO and Gulliver Ireland, one of the country’s leading providers of tourism information and reservations. According to the company, the Irish green fee market is worth ?200 million annually. The acquisition spells good news for numerous Kerry companies and aspects of the tourism industry. The county’s 20 golf clubs will also benefit from the deal. OTL will feature real time availability from golf clubs all over Ireland on its website, www.teetimes.ie. Clubs that make teetimes available for sale will also get bookings from a wide range of third-party distributors such as travel websites, tourist offices, tour operators, hotels, the national media and car rental companies. There are no up-front costs. Clubs manage their own availability, rates and information and are provided with all necessary training and support. Commenting on the announcement, Managing Director of Gulliver Ireland Dr Steward Stephens said that FEXCO’s investment in OTL represents the first serious attempt to bring golf online. “Access to real time availability will have a huge impact on the golf market in the coming years, just as it has in the accommodation sector,” he said. Online accommodation bookings through Gulliver are almost doubling every year, and are expected to reach over 50,000 this year. Online golf bookings are expected to follow a similar pattern. ‘There is enormous demand in the domestic market, not to mention the potential for the marketing of Irish golf overseas. “From the clubs’ perspective, online distribution through www.teetimes.ie and its affiliates, as well as through their own websites, will give them a powerful yield management tool while retaining full control of their product,” Mr Stephens added. Gulliver Ireland, which is headquartered in Killorglin, operates a system originally developed by Bord Fáilte and the Northern Ireland Tourist Board. Following a partnership agreement with FEXCO in 1997, the financial services company acquired a majority shareholding in Gulliver. 
