online
{ Independent.ie Newsdesk 
    January 07 2016 02:40 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/five-ways-to-shop-safely-online-this-sale-season-34353419.html }
Marketing Director at Currys PC World offers advice on how to get the best deals this sale season. Online shopping – where would we be without it? The internet puts whole stores of products at our fingertips. For many of us Cyber Monday, the Monday after Black Friday, marked the beginning of the Christmas period for online shopping with many of us typing www. With the credit card at the ready. This trend of opting for online convenience carries right through to the January sales. The treacherous weather conditions have left many bargain hunters choosing to brave the sales online rather than face the storm to get to the stores. However, as efficient as it can be there are unfortunately some unscrupulous cyber-scrooges in the darker corners of the web who are more than happy to strip you of savvy savings—and your bank account of money. Online fraud can be a problem for ill-prepared shoppers, but there are many ways for consumers to stay cybersafe. According to Peter five tips to get you through sale season intact are: 1.    Only buy from trusted retailers. Don’t buy into scams that promise the latest gadgets and must-have items at abnormally low prices. Trust your gut: if a deal seems too good to be true, it probably is. 2.    For an extra layer of security, consider using trusted online payment platforms like PayPal to minimise the risk of debit or credit card fraud.  3.    Create strong passwords. Use a combination of symbols, alternating cases and numbers to better protect your personal information. Make sure to use unique passwords for every website!  4.    When you’re at an online payment screen, look out for a shield or lock icon in your address bar. This means that your personal details are securely encrypted and can’t be hijacked by third parties. No icon? X out and shop elsewhere! 5.    Keep a close eye on your online bank account and make a note of the money you spend online. Cybercriminals who have access to your information won’t necessarily take out a big lump sum. Instead, watch out for small payments to accounts you don’t recognise.  www.currys.ie Online Editors 
