online
{ Eimear Ní Bhraonain 
    August 14 2012 03:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/style/sex-relationships/vulgar-men-sleazy-emails-why-i-gave-up-my-quest-for-online-love-26889400.html }
Dating websites may work for some but give me some real-life romance any day, writes Eimear Ní Bhraonain I'm not happy about admitting it but desperation and curiosity once led me to join an internet dating website. I was between boyfriends at the time and fed up of alcohol-induced encounters. My online dating experience lasted less than a week. I was back in the nightclub chatting to drunken Irish men by the weekend. Let me explain why. After signing up to a popular dating site, I created a profile. I posted a photograph of myself, too. I looked friendly (cocktail in hand) and not too done up in it (tanned and relaxed). I wanted my picture to actually look like me. I didn't think it was fair to dupe a man with one of those snaps taken from a height to make me appear skinnier than I am in real life. I described myself using words like "up for the craic" in the personality section. I was being honest. What I meant was, I'm not a bore and don't want to be sitting in with a DVD by date two. But without the benefit of knowing me, or knowing someone who knows me, this translated to internet users/potential love matches as: "Girl wants to have no-strings-attached sex." Cue strange messages from strange men. I was almost physically sick when I saw the first dozen responses. They were graphic. They made the E L James novel Fifty Shades of Grey look like a lullaby. In less than three days, I had 67 messages from men who wanted to meet me. I'll never forget it. Only two were of a "how are you?", "I like your picture", subtle variety. I had a bad feeling that I was to blame for bringing all of this on myself. A friend glanced over my profile before screeching: "How could you be so naive?" in my ear. "What were you thinking?" Apparently words like "fun" and "craic" are a no-no. They are code in the internet dating world for something else. She made me re-write the profile. I removed the picture and described myself as a girl who "likes intelligent conversation and guys who can make me laugh". I got . . . wait for it . . . zero responses. That was the end of my internet dating affair. I didn't meet up with anyone, given the tone of their messages. These days, I've gone back to the old-fashioned ways of getting to know someone in the flesh instead of through a virtual world. While it didn't float my boat, I know a handful of happy couples who met online. I reckon there are definitely more of them among my friends but they're not admitting to how they met. One couple recently admitted to me that they had concocted the story of how they met because neither of them wanted to tell their parents or friends they had used dating websites. Another revealed he met his foreign-born wife online. Most people would be unaware of the fact and the man in question doesn't shout it from the rooftops. "I looked after my mother for years after my father died," said Mike*, who revealed he was "not in a position" to have a relationship then. "I was into my 40s when my mother died, lacked a lot of the normal experiences, and while I met numerous women in my 40s, the great majority had been through painful experiences themselves with former partners and felt unable to commit, plus they could not cope with my life history in a whole range of ways," he said. However, Mike, who was living in Tullamore some years ago, decided to try online dating and met a woman who lived half-an-hour away in Portlaoise. "I'd be the first to acknowledge I am not the ideal husband. I have a lot of stuff from my past to deal with, but my wife has been very understanding," he said. Mike warned that most of the "lucky ones" who have success with internet dating don't tell anyone -- so horror stories are common and off-putting for the rest of us. Another man I know met his girlfriend through the website MaybeFriends.com. Jack* had no intention of settling before his ideal woman stopped him in his tracks. He had spent at least three years hooking up with women through websites for one-night stands several nights a week. He said sometimes the women were "up for it" and he was honest about his intentions -- but sometimes he led them on until he got what he wanted and moved on "to the next one". Jack also revealed that he had several internet dates "on-the-go" in different parts of Dublin at one stage. This meant he was never stuck for options mid-week if he hadn't made other plans. In the internet world, Jack is known as a PUA -- or pick-up artist. I know you hear of strangers doing this kind of thing but I was horrified that a man I know, who is good-looking, charming and has a job (not exactly stuck for a date) had used the internet for casual sex. He told me that some women do exactly the same thing. Another man confided in me that his gay friend joined a dating website as it was hard to meet someone in his home town. He decided to meet his date after they had talked online and exchanged details. He went to his date's home for what he thought was to be a dinner date. Some might say this was inviting trouble, as dating websites always advise on meeting in a public place, particularly in the early stages of the relationship. What happened after he arrived at his date's house, he was unprepared for. Instead of fine food and wine, his date had "an array of sticks and all sorts of weird implements ready to start the action". Almost floored by what he saw, as they often say in the world of tabloid newspapers, he made his excuses and left. Another single pal in his 30s sent me an email to tell me his experience. Paul* is one of my more gentlemanly friends who is genuinely interested in having a relationship with a woman. He turned to internet dating as he felt it was a way of meeting women because he is not one for "getting hammered" every night. Paul met around eight different women from one website over the course of 18 months. "Out of the eight, I saw three more than once. I slept with one, we had a brief relationship," he confessed. "Online dating didn't work out for me and if I'm being completely honest, I don't think it works out for most people. "We all know someone who met online but it's so rare. I think the success rate is probably better with a random meeting or being introduced by mutual friends." He now has his eye on "somebody special" who he met "totally out of blue" after her mother introduced them. On the issue of whether or not most men are online looking for casual "hook-ups", Paul says there's an "element of truth" in that but women "exaggerate it". Paul pointed out that he regularly came across prostitutes while trying online dating. He explained that women who were "clearly prostitutes" targeted him after seeing his dating profile to offer their services. A woman with the suggestive profile name "Laetitia Lips" wanted to meet his "needs". "Everything was on it except the price list," he said of the messages he received. However, he said the dating website removed or blocked these users from contacting him once he reported the actions. John*, a professional in his early 30s, "once met" a girl online. He rejects the 'all men are just looking for one thing' argument. A lot of the ladies, he said, come to the internet dating table expecting to meet someone because of a "marketed idea" that is out there. He described his one internet date as a "needy" woman who wanted everything to slot into a picture she had created in her head. "That doesn't work. Men want to grow with someone. It could be true that men just use these things for sex sometimes, but women expect too much and already have notions of what should happen." Modern technology has made our lives easier in so many ways. It's transformed almost every aspect of the home and the workplace. But when it comes to affairs of the heart, no computer can be as discerning as the human eye. Meet chat and connect with singles in your area – visit 
www.themeetingpoint.ie today. Irish Independent 
