online
{  
    February 24 2018 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/sport/other-sports/club-call-36619289.html }
Athletics, Lusk. On Saturday morning the EoI Marathon Series came to Lusk and the club were well represented in both the 10k and Half-Marathon races. It was great to see some of our newer members proudly wearing the club top for the first time. Some of our more established members put in great performances, with Fiona Reinhardt delighted to grab a PB of 1:45 and Stephen Murtagh back on form with a superb 1:31 in the Half. Richard Foy competed in the BHAA 5-mile ALSAA cross-country race, finishing in 41:41, while Olivier Ansaldi braved the multi-discipline Dublin Gaelforce event in Tallaght which involves running, cycling and kayaking over river, hills and trails.  The National Indoor Championships took place at the weekend at Abbotstown, with all of Ireland's household track and field athletes taking part in the first competition of the year. Adam McNally (pole vault) and Dylan Cody Foy (60m) put in good performances on Saturday but were disappointed with themselves and their results. It's only half-time in the season and they should take heart from the results to date. On Sunday our lady vaulters were up against the best in Ireland.  Grace Codd, Éabha McNally and Sarah Derham all jumped very well to finish just outside the medals.  Ràs na hEireann is never easy and the 49th running of Ireland's oldest cross-country event wasn't any different. We had three entries in the Men's 6k race and it was Eamon Caffrey who came away with silver in the Over-45, closely followed by John Tindley - bronze in his first-ever cross-country. Colm McNally also put in a good performance.  Congratulations Dunleer AC for organising another fantastic pure cross-country event. Over in the West, Des McNally was part of a huge field at the Lahinch 5-mile and ran well, coming home in 40:46 on a hilly course. Best of luck to new club member Stephen Brennan who takes on the monumental challenge of the Glendalough Clover 80k next Saturday. Stephen brings a wealth of ultra-marathon experience to the club. The Lusk 4-mile road race on Sunday March 4th is already close to capacity, so please sign up online soon to avoid disappointment. There will be no on-the-day entry for the adult race. Entry for the children's races will be available up to 2pm on the day. Well done to all club members who participated in or volunteered at last weekend's parkruns. Adult numbers were relatively low due to clashes with other races, but our younger members were out in force in Rush.  Results: Donabate - Conor Clune 24:45 (pacer), Peter Lee 26:03. Ardgillan - Frankie Hollands 48:43. Rush junior - Finn Corcoran 8:47 1st place, Nevan Corcoran 9:19, Seimi McElarney 9:28 PB, Cerys O'Mahony 9:46, Fintan Campbell 10:53, Grace Kodia 10:56, Niall Lenehan 11:48, Tia Kodia 12:10, Juliette Kodia 12:24, Meabh Lee 13:06, Melissa Corcoran 13:43, Jack Palmer 13:44, Tadhg Lee 14:54 PB, Caleb Nolan 14:55, Ethan Campbell 15:22. Volunteers: Eimear Clarke, Rodrigo Lara, Conor Clune, Sean Greensit, Jennifer Swan, Orla Smith, Daniel O'Brien & Olivier Ansaldi, Matt Wade.   After the busy weekend at the Dublin Indoor Championships the previous week, most of our juveniles enjoyed a quiet recovery week, with just a few exceptions. Thomas Lara, one of our athletes selected for the Leinster Performance Squad, spent two days of the mid-term break in Athlone for the first-ever Leinster Performance Squad track and field training camp. He found the camp very enjoyable and informative, taking part in two pole vault training sessions with a top coach and a range of workshops. On Sunday Daniel O'Brien took part in the 4,000m U-17 race at the Rás na hÉireann Cross-Country races at Oldbridge and had a fantastic run, finishing in fifth place after leading for over a lap. Well done Daniel.   Ballyboughal  Our Ladies team would like to thank everyone who supported a very successful coffee morning on Saturday - and also Two Spots Coffee for donating the coffee!  Both our men's teams were back in league action at the weekend and unfortunately both were beaten, but thanks for all the sizeable support for the lads. They will be back in action in two weeks. Our St Peters Minors start their season next Sunday in Naul against Naomh Barrog at 11am.  Club membership is now due and can be paid online or to any club committee member. Numbers drawn in last week's lotto were 11, 20, 25 and the jackpot for the draw last night (Monday) stood at €1,410. Last week's €20 winners were G Seaver, the Masterson family and Elaine Corbally. Thank you for your Support.   Fingallians Membership: This is urgent for all players. Forms are available in the clubhouse or on the club website at www.fingallians.com. Diary Date: Our big fundraiser of the year, 'Race Day @ Bellewstown' will take place on Saturday 7th July. Easter Camp Dates: These are Monday March 26th to Thursday 29th from 10am to 2pm each day. It will cost €40 for members and €60 for non-members and is for girls and boys aged four to 13 years. Vetting of members: This is a legal requirement. Every person involved with a team must be vetted. A person who is not vetted is no longer allowed on a sideline, interact with children, transport players to games or training or be near ANY team. If you are not registered please click on the link on the GAA website or contact a team manager.  Athletic section - Dublin Championships: Well done to Liana Buckley on her second-place finish in the long jump, and in the 60m for Under-19 boys Leon Chiza and Pascal Ryan were first and second. Junior & Leaving Cert members: We are currently hosting a supervised Irish language conversation group for déagóirí in the clubhouse gach oíche Máirt, 8-9pm. It started last Tuesday and runs until the oral exams are críochnaithe. Suitable for daltaí preparing for Junior & Leaving Cert. Saor in aisce agus fáilte roimh chách. Tuilleadh eolas ó Liam - 086-3814422. Club shop: Opening times are Saturdays at 10 for players and parents looking for club clothing for the coming season. St Patricks Day Parade: The club are looking for mentors and parents to put their names forward to help with the organisation of this event. Please email David on secretarybng.fingallians.dublin@gaa.ie for further information.  Fingal Ravens Club membership is now due and the easiest way to pay your membership is online at www.fingalravens.ie. Following an inspection of our pitches, all grass pitches and grass areas behind the goals will remain closed until further notice for training. Any queries regarding available times for the Astro pitch, please contact our pitch co-ordinator John McCarthy on 087-6599348. We are holding our Juvenile Awards night for boys and girls teams for the 2017 season in Kettles Hotel on Friday March 2nd from 7pm. The U-16 boys team had a good win away to St Catherines in Westmanstown last Saturday week, while the U-14s battled hard to grind out a draw away to Oliver Plunketts/ER. Our Easter camp (three days) will be held from Tuesday April 3rd to Thursday 5th and our Summer Cul Camp (one week) will be held from Monday July 2nd to Friday 6th. We would like to send our condolences to Jim Lowndes and the extended Lowndes and Leonard families on the death of his mother Mary. We send our condolences to the family of Denise McLoughlin, Roganstown, who passed away recently and we would also like send our condolences to the extended Lynam family on the recent death of Una. Numbers drawn in the club lotto the week before last for a jackpot of €17,000 were 9, 10, 23 & 27 and €250 went to the Arthurs family for matching three numbers. Thanks to all for supporting our weekly lotto.   O'Dwyer's  A family Table Quiz takes place this Friday at 7pm and it's €10 for a table of five. Please support these events that are taking place as part of our centenary celebrations. Many thanks to all who came to the Valentine's Quiz which was a hugely successful event.  Membership is now due and must be paid by March 31st as per GAA rules. There are a number of price plans and instalment options available on our website www.odwyersgaa.com. Please note: If you are coaching/helping on any team, you must pay full non-playing membership.  The adult men's footballers have no fixtures next weekend. Training continues and new players are always welcome. Training takes place on the all-weather Pitch on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 7.45pm. The adult hurlers play Cuala in a home fixture on Sunday next at 2.30pm. All support would be welcome!  We are delighted to have been chosen to participate in the next phase of the Healthy Club Project. We have been chosen among 90 other clubs out of 200 applicants. This is a fantastic opportunity for the club and one that we will make the most of. Numbers drawn in last week's lotto were 2, 9, 14. Congratulations to Patricia Devine on winning the jackpot, which reverted to €600 for this week's draw. Play online at www.odwyersgaa.com.  Round Towers Lusk All memberships must be paid in full by March 31st.   There was no winner of last Thursday's lotto. Numbers drawn were 5, 8, 15, 17 and €50 was won by John O'Brien, €25 by James Blessing and €25 by Sam Skelly. This week's jackpot is €11,350.  In the U-13 Football Grading Div 9 match it finished RTL 8-17 St Vincents B 0-6 - a great start from our U-13 boys. This was their second win in a row following their result the previous week against Ballinteer. Well done. In the Minor Hurling Division 3 the result was Ros Lusca 5-13 Clontarf 1-3. It was a great all-round team performance in their first league game, with lots of players contributing scores. Our first team got their league campaign off to a great start with a victory away to St Peregrines on a scoreline of 1-15 to 3-13. Towers rallied in the final stages and Cathal Bollard found the net to give them a four-point cushion as the game entered into injury time. But they then endured a penalty call which was brilliantly saved by keeper Adam Burns to run out deserving winners in a battle that was as tenacious as any they have experienced over the last few seasons. It was great to see last year's minors stepping up to play their part along with the class of Cormac Howley who landed some big scores when needed most. But the day belonged to Cathal Bollard whose haul of 3-1 won't be forgotten for a while.  Our Junior football team played Ballyboughal in Gormanston, emerging victors on a 2-14 to 0-3 scoreline. Conor Murphy continued his good form with his third goal in three games, while his wing forward colleague Gary McGlew also netted from the penalty spot to leave the half-time score 2-7 to 0-1. Although the opposition started the second half well Towers exerted their dominance again to add another seven points, while also wasting some good chances to further extend the lead. Well done to Aron Hogan who had an excellent first competitive game for this team, while a speedy recovery is wished to Gary McGlew who received a nasty head injury. Well done to everyone on a great start to the season.  St Finian's Swords There were mixed results for the adult football teams on Sunday. The AFL4 team beat Thomas Davis in Ridgewood, while the AFL8 team were beaten by Naomh Fionnbarra at the same venue. Well done to the Under-14 Thomas Ashe team who beat Whitehall Colmcille in a very strong performance in their Division 2 clash on Saturday. The AHL4 team are away to Cuala at 10.15am on Sunday next, while the AHL8 team are at home to Whitehall Colmcille at 2.15pm. Come out and show your support for the adult hurling teams. A big thank-you to Eve O'Brien from the Dublin senior camogie team who took the Under-16 camogie training session last weekend in Baltic conditions. The Under-11 Ladies football team are looking for extra players. Girls born in 2007 are suitable for the team. Please text Keith Cahill on 087-2300972 for further details. St Finian's GAA Club extends best wishes to former player Liam Ryan and his bride-to-be Denise Walsh on their wedding in Wexford.  AIB will donate €50 to St Finian's GAA Club for all new home insurance customers. When you get your policy number click on the link to fill in the online form and choose St Finians Swords in the Club drop-down box. Membership subscriptions for 2018 are now due. Payments can be made online under Club Membership on the home page of the club website www.stfinians.com. Some minor changes have been made to membership categories and rates for 2018. The club has introduced a family membership which would be the most cost-effective for most families.  Membership can be paid over three months online. As a substantial element of the club's outlay comes at the start of the year, all memberships should be paid as soon as possible. There are Boxercise classes taking place in the clubhouse activity room every Sunday afternoon and Monday evening. For further details, please contact Karen at 087-7765165. Numbers drawn in last week's lotto were 2, 14, 26, 27, the lucky dip winners of €40 were Tanya Mulligan, Jamie Grogan, B Maguire (c/o Mag Ward) and Eoin O'Connor. This week's jackpot stands at €2,200. The club bingo takes place every Friday upstairs in Peacocks at 8.30pm. The jackpot is €1,050. The coffee shop is open every Saturday from 10am to 1pm. All are welcome for a cuppa and a chat. If you would like to be kept up to date with the latest news from St Finian's GAA Club, please send your email address to pro.stfiniansswords.dublin@gaa.ie.   St Maur's  We launch our all-weather playing pitch development project in the club this Friday at 8.30pm. Hear about the plans, the finance, the schedule, how to donate and get involved in the future of the club. A reminder about the new earlier start time of 8pm for St Maur's weekly Sunday night Bingo.  Adult camogie returned to Naomh Maur on Sunday after a gap of several years. Well done to Lawdie, Wayne and all the backroom team for re-establishing the adult game in our club. We had a good win on Sunday, 2-6 to 1-3 over St Finian's. Well done to all the squad - great things ahead.  Huge news coming out of St Maur's. The Easter Camp dates have been finalised, so mark Monday March 26th to Thursday 29th in your calendar. Application forms will be distributed to club teams next week and to schools after that, so get in early as places are limited and are pre-bookable only. All players must be registered before the end of February in order to play this season.  All new players must register immediately to play or train. If you've registered and paid your fees for the 2018 season, we thank you. If you are still to do so, please log on at this link - http://sportsmanager.ie/…/conten…/367180/m_e_m_b_e_r_s_h_i_p. If you'd prefer you can also register at the club office from 9am to 3pm Monday to Friday. The Academy resumed last Saturday at 9.30am. St Maur's have six-week pilates classes, starting next Monday in the upstairs bar at 8.15. The cost is approximately €30 for six weeks, depending on numbers, with very limited places left. If interested contact Vicky at 087-6556025. Congratulations to Ciaran Reddin who played with the Dublin seniors in their most recent match against Donegal and chipped in with a point. Well done to Robert Halpin who played for the Dublin minor footballers that weekend, also against Donegal. Dublin came out on top with a three-point win in that match.   A super night was had by all at the Annual Awards Night where great work was done by the organisers to transform the hall. Well done to all the recipients of the awards, and in particular congratulations to Club Person of the Year Maria Gallagher. On behalf of the club we'd like to wish two of our players a speedy recovery from recent serious injuries - Canice Reade jnr and young Ciaran Morrissey. Hopefully we'll see both lads back around the club in the near future. Best wishes from all at Maur's. Numbers drawn in the club lotto on Sunday for a jackpot of €13,750 were 12, 18, 20, 27 and the lucky dip €50 winners were Edward Clarke, The Lads FM Hayestown, Helen Costello, Buster & Buddy, Kathleen Sweetman and Tony Ferguson (online). The previous weekend's €50 lucky dip winners were Mary Ellen, Daire Kelly, John Coleman, Alice Casey, Lyndsey Balfe and Ger Geraghty.  St Pat's Donabate  Numbers drawn in last Friday's lotto were 6, 7, 10 & 30. The five €20 winners were Michael Duignam, Aisling Curley, Martin Wexford, Paula Foster and Noreen Kavanagh and this week's jackpot will be €8,100. Thank you for your support. Both our adult men's teams had great starts to their leagues. In AFL3 Pats beat Garda 1-10 to 0-4, while in AFL9 Pats beat St Vincent's 3-9 to 1-8. Well done to the players and to the new managers. Tús Maith is leath na hoibre.  Well done also to our Academy hurlers who had two super wins in Gormanston, coming back in the second game from a goal down. Kudos to their 'Supa Kepa' who pulled off some very mature saves.  On the LGFA side, juvenile matches begin this coming weekend and we wish our squads well for the season ahead.  Our Gaelic 4 Mothers & Others squad are looking to get a coach/trainer to train them on Fridays from 7.30 to 9pm. There would be no admin duties involved. Thanks again to all those who've paid their 2018 membership - much appreciated. Online payments can be made by visiting http://stpatsgaa.com/membership/.   Skerries Harps  Well done to our McMeels Pharmacy-sponsored Senior 2 footballers who defeated O'Tooles in the first league match of the season and the AFL9 footballers who defeated Castleknock on Sunday. Well done also to the Moriarty SuperValu-sponsored U-14 and U-15 boys teams on their league wins over the weekend. Fixtures: Sat - Minor Ladies football v St Scoil Ui Chonaill, away 3pm. Sun - Minor A football v Na Fianna, Home 11am; Minor B football v O'Dwyer's, Home 11am; AHL5 - Junior hurlers v Clanna Gael Fontenoy, home midday. Adult and Juvenile Games weekly meetings continue this Thursday in the clubhouse. Congratulations to Lyndsey Davey, Sinead O'Mahoney and the Dublin senior ladies on their recent National League win over Cork.  Well done to our Stacks Pharmacy-sponsored senior camogie team who defeated Clara Kilkenny in the Leinster Senior League that weekend, and to the Moriarty SuperValu-sponsored U-14 and U-16 boys teams on their league wins. Skerries Harps Annual Membership fees are now due and are renewable online or by filling in the forms which are available in the clubhouse. All players (Adult and Juvenile) must have paid membership and injury fund fees paid up to date before the commencement of the 2018 season.   Sunday's Zingo result: 5-1-7-4-6-3-2. The previous weekend's result: 2-5-3-7-4-6-1. There was no jackpot or dividend winner.  You can play online at skerriesharps.ie and follow the links. Envelopes cost only €2 - or three for €5 - and next weekend's jackpot will be €8,200. There is a free raffle for spot prizes on the night for all those present at the Zingo draw on Sunday. The Gormanston indoor Hurling/Camogie Tournament finishes next Sunday. Cheltenham Preview Night - Fri March 3nd at 8pm in the clubhouse. Panel of experts include MC David Coughlan (Daily Star), David Jennings (Racing Post), Gary O'Brien (At the Races), Ado McGuinness (trainer) and Gavin Cromwell (trainer). This year we will partner with charity CAS (Cycle Against Suicide) for this popular event. All are welcome! The Annual Fashion Show on Friday March 9th is sold out. The Skerries Harps 2018 golfing schedule is now available to view on our website and the next outing will be on Friday May 11th to Balbriggan GC. Contact Paul on 085-1740474 for details.  All are welcome to join us in the 'Get Ireland Walking' Campaign. The group meet every Monday and Thursday at 7pm at the clubhouse. All ages are welcome. Win a VIP GAA Experience for a team in the Under-8 to Under-16 age group with AIB. Pick up an entry from in the clubhouse or in the local AIB branch for your chance to win tickets and hospitality for your team (25 players and five mentors) to one of the Dublin home games at Croke Park in the Allianz League. Completed entries can be returned to Ciara in AIB Skerries. Congrats to our U-13 girls who won this prize and attended the recent Dublin v Donegal match. If you would like to get more involved in our club and volunteer your time across any of the areas - from helping with a team, in our club shop or on a Saturday morning doing coffees during the academy - contact Joanne on 086-4058523. All help is greatly appreciated as our club continues to grow.  The club shop is open on Saturdays from 10 to 11am during the Academy. Many items are now on sale, including club hoodies, training tops, rain jackets, shorts etc. Come down and bag a bargain before it's all gone! The clubhouse is available for functions/parties. CContact Pat on 087-2505479 for details or email bookings.skerriesharps@gmail.com. The club extends our sympathies to the family of the late Kevin Mahon, former club secretary. May he rest in peace.   Starlights  Numbers drawn in last Saturday's lotto were 1, 9, 16 and 24. The four lucky dip winners of €25 were Peter House (c/o Kealys), Kay Larkin (c/o Swiss), Tracey Virgeo (c/o Marie) and Christy Bollard (c/o Coachmans). Next weekend's jackpot is €900 - thank you for your continued support.  Just a little reminder that our Little Stars training continues each Saturday with our fully qualified trainer in Santry Community Resource Centre from noon to 1pm. This is for boys and girls aged four and up. There is no annual fee - just pay as you go for only €2. New members are always welcome and for more information contact our Juvenile Officer Anne-Marie McAllister on 086-3523690. Training continues on Tuesdays and Thursdays for our adult team at 8pm sharp on our Collinstown Lane pitch. Subs are now due. There is a league match for our adult team next Sunday at 2.30pm in Collinstown Lane against Templeogue Synge Street. Can you please let George know your availability as soon as possible. New players and supporters are always welcome.   Wild Geese Numbers drawn in the club lotto the week before last were 1, 7, 16, 37 and the €20 winners were D Hanlon, T Myles and G Browne. Membership is now due.   Balbriggan  Winners from Sunday's men's white nine-hole stableford: Front nine - Div 1 John O'Shea (10) 19pts, Div 2 David Sheridan (15) 21pts, Div 3 Austin Mallon (19) 19pts; Back nine - David Rooney (13) 18pts. Winners from Saturday's men's white nine-hole stableford: Front nine - Div 1 Colum Wilson (6) 21pts, Div 2 Patrick McGrath (15) 22pts, Div 3 Derek Meaney (24) 21pts; Back nine - Div 1 Shay Wherity (9) 21pts, Div 2 Gary O'Reilly (16) 21pts, Div 3 Denis O'Hora (20) 21pts. Winners from last Tuesday's Senior Men's Open 12-hole stableford: Age 50 to 64 Mick Arthur 30 (23) 18pts; Age 65+ Patrick McGrath 15 (11) 21pts. Last Tuesday's ladies nine-hole stableford: 1st Imelda O'Shea (11) 18pts, 2nd Maureen Moore (22) 16pts; Div 1 winner Barbara Kenny (15) 15pts, Div 2 winner Joan Tully (23) 16pts, Div 3 winner Muriel Ennis (30) 15pts.   Donabate  Sunday's Gents Invitational Fourball: 1st Mark Cramer (4) & Christopher Creevey 23 (19) 38pts ob9, 2nd Thomas Flood 8 (6) & Jim Butterly (15) 38pts. Saturday's Gents 14-hole stableford: Class 1 winner Doug Robertson (7-4) 31pts, 2nd John Timmins (11-2) 30pts; Class 2 winner Gary Mulhall (13-2) 31pts, 2nd Gerard Griffith (13) 29pts ob6; Class 3 winner John Hannon (19) 32pts ob9, 2nd Declan Rickard (16) 32pts; Class 4 winner Mark Michael (25) 29pts, 2nd Paul Duggan (21-4) 27pts ob9.   Roganstown  Winners from last Wednesday's 12-hole competition: Cat A Brenda Craig 21pts, Cat B Joanne Scully 18pts. Winners from the 12-hole competition played the weekend before last: Cat A Lady Captain Sandra Downes 20pts, Cat B Maria Gleeson 19pts.  Ballyboughal Sunday's winner was Ronnie Delaney with a net 49. The runner-up was Alan Carroll who had a net 50. The 2018 Players Championship starts on Sunday March 4th when points will be awarded for the top 10 placings. The first club major of the year, the O'Connor Cup, takes place on Sunday March 18th at 11am. The regular weekly game is on Sundays at 11am and new members are very welcome to come along and play. To get more info about the club, check the website www.ballyboughalpitchandputt.com, call the secretary on 085-1743748 or just come along on a Sunday morning before the game. Fingal Independent 
