online
{  
    January 08 2015 02:05 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/politics/voteforme-rise-of-digital-savvy-deputies-30892500.html }
There was a time, not so long ago, when the hash symbol was mainly used on a telephone dialling pad… but now it, along with abbreviated text and the @ symbol, have permeated into seemingly every sphere of our lives - including politics.  As we gear up for election-mania, expect more hashtags, YouTube clips, Instagram updates, tweets and posts from your local representatives. In using #rebootireland as a form of branding and signposting for her new political party, Lucinda Creighton demonstrated clearly how important social media has become within this particular pillar of the state. Indeed, Lucinda is something of a social media magnet - her Twitter followers number more than 16,900, making her the sixth most popular TD on the social media site. Rather bizarrely, Lucinda's brother-in-arms Eddie Hobbs described Twitter last weekend as 'toilet door graffiti' - incidentally, he has nearly 10,000 followers, that's one hefty toilet door. In the United States, President Obama's campaign team spent millions on their online strategy - including an estimated $52m (€43.8m) on online advertising alone. As well as reaching a new section of the electorate, it also helped generate millions in donations to his campaign.  Indeed, ahead of the 2011 general election here, Fine Gael brought social media advisers, who had worked on Obama's campaign, from Washington to assist them in Mount Street. And Fianna Fáil confirmed to the Irish Independent that they will have a social media officer in place in the coming weeks. "Individual TDs and Senators manage their own social media platforms and online presence with the support and advice of the Fianna Fáil media team. Content for the party's Facebook and Twitter feeds is managed by our press officers," a spokesman told us. Sinn Féin's Gerry Adams is the most popular TD on Twitter with 73,700 followers, while his deputy Mary Lou McDonald is fourth with 18,800 as well as 65,000 Facebook 'friends'.  Gerry Adams' account is a mixture of political opinions and, at times, random meanderings. Also, of course, Sinn Féin's figures are boosted by the fact they operate in two jurisdictions. Due to Adams' strong following, the average Sinn Féin TD has 8,988 followers, Independents and others average 6,604 each, Fine Gael 3,088, Labour 3,019 and Fianna Fáil 2,009.  "I do believe that there is a correlation between online presence and electoral success," explains Fianna Fáil's Colm Keaveney. The Galway East TD tweets daily and has more than 4,000 Facebook followers. "Twitter enables me to have a greater reach beyond the Tuam Herald. I can express a view at accelerated pace, gather news and information quickly, control how my opinions are expressed and connect with the electorate through it - including members of the media," he explained, adding: "Then, locally, the Facebook page is important for when I want to post expanded messages about what's happening in my constituency. For those of us in large rural constituencies, social media is crucial."  Fine Gael's Simon Harris, who is the ninth most active TD on social media with more than 6,000 tweets to date, explains that the quality of tweets are as important as the quantity. "I don't believe people are interested in us writing continuously about how great we or our parties are," he told the Irish Independent. "I try to make my tweets interesting, useful and relative to people's everyday lives - almost like an online diary. Like on the day after the last Budget, I conducted a Q&A session on Twitter, so it's obvious the importance being given to online communication nowadays by governments and political parties. "Now that there are spending limits on campaigning, social media is a hugely important space. I'm sure it will be a very important tool in the next general election." The average age of those with social media accounts is increasing annually and so maintaining a strong online presence can help TDs communicate with older members of the electorate also. Indeed, three of the most followed TDs on Twitter are teetering on pension age - Adams (66) and Independent TD Shane Ross and Socialist TD Joe Higgins (both 65).  Independent TDs are particularly active online with most hiring web designers to produce impressive websites. The digital age isn't for everyone though. Willie Penrose, Labour TD for Longford-Westmeath, doesn't use a Twitter or Facebook account and doesn't have his own website (59pc of TDs do) and he describes himself as something of an online 'dinosaur'.  "I can't be doing with this Twittering and Facebooking business," he told us, adding: "I've never used any of those things and it's unlikely that will change now. I barely email but prefer to use more traditional means of communicating with my constituents, face to face at clinics, on the telephone or by letter. I'm very accessible and people in my constituency know that. "I'm a stickler for spelling so even abbreviated text messages make me feel uneasy. Also, I feel these social media sites become too personal in nature and of course messages can be misconstrued." Earlier this month Minister for Foreign Affairs Charlie Flanagan apologised after he tweeted: "2015 offers Ireland the choice of Constitutional politics or Cult politics", referring to the Sinn Féin party. He later suggested on Twitter that he had left out the letter "n" when tweeting about "cult politics", causing uproar. Dr Theresa Reidy, professor of politics at UCC, says that while an online presence is advantageous for a political party or politician, it's not yet clear if it necessarily translates into victory on Election Day. "There isn't enough research out there to say for certain that this form of post-modern campaigning, often referred to as Web 2.0, gets you votes but it's clear political parties and Independent candidates are devising online strategies," she said. "Twitter as a social media platform is more politicised than Facebook and is undoubtedly a very powerful tool in modern society. It must be pointed out that followers don't necessarily translate into votes though, many are from the media and interested groups including opponents." All social media figures taken from Tuesday, January 6 Indo Review 
