online
{ AARON CULLEN AVONDALE COMMUNITY COLLEGE 
    April 11 2012 10:15 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/lifestyle/trust-27869734.html }
WITH PEOPLE spending endless hours socialising online, we have to wonder are social networking sites the death of our privacy? With the growth of social networking sites in the last decade we have started to see our society begin to broadcast their lives publicly online; everything from tweets about what we are eating to videos confessing our deepest secrets. Today, The Truman Show is almost a reality, with the aid of daily video bloggers or 'vloggers' who post daily videos of their day to day activities. Thanks to the Youtube partner program, well known 'vloggers' such as Shay Carl and Charles Trippy have been able to make a career from the publication of their lives. Armed with just a pocket camera and their personalities they receive hundreds of thousands of views on each video, achieving a viewership which would rival television programs. The internet is phenomenal but are advancements in technology making our lives public property? We often forget how relatively young the World Wide Web is. While the internet dates back to the 60s, the web was only launched in 1991. The Webs user base has sprung from just a few million to over two billion in just twenty years. With 30% of the world's population online and three quarters of all people in the Western World using the web, it should come as no surprise that the massively popular sites such as Facebook, Youtube and Twitter have all boomed as well. Approximately 70% of people in Ireland are online, with almost two million Irish profiles on Facebook, over a million regular users on Youtube and around two hundred thousand Twitter users, it is clear that the Irish population is following the global trend of using social media websites. These sites boast hundreds of millions of users worldwide who create the content. This unique form of media allows anyone with access to the web to contribute everything from their political views to a video of their pet performing a hilarious act. The ability to share with people globally from the comfort of your own home is truly a marvel of the modern world, but are we too comfortable sharing information on the web? When we think of someone who is 'streetwise' we think of someone who knows how the streets work and how to handle themselves in bad situations and stay out of trouble. In this day and age when many people spend hours online, not enough of us are 'web wise'. Whether it is spotting a dodgy website or being able to tell if someone is hazardous, the web is in many ways as dangerous as the streets. No one would ever put their personal information on the wall of a building for everyone to see, yet we have no problem letting the same people and more see our information in all its glory online. Plenty of us would be guilty of accepting friend requests from people we do not know, but would you let someone you don't know come into your house to see all your photographs? Most likely not! While no one should be discouraged from engaging in conversation online, caution is needed at all times and with the use of common sense risk is greatly reduced. After all, the entire Internet would not be what it is without the communication between strangers around the globe. The social networking sites that we are so familiar with have a vast array of privacy settings. These options allow us to filter who we share information with, yet many of us are not familiar with privacy settings. This causes many to believe their profile is private; when that is not the case. A recent security flaw which allowed access to users private photos saw several of Facebook founder Mark Zuckerburg's personal, private images leaked onto the web. A quick Google search of your name can yield an astonishing amount of information. So much so that companies are beginning to hire companies to perform background checks on potential employees, and even current employees. These background checks scour the internet for any information they can obtain of you. Without being aware of it you may have been refused employment due to your online data. It may be a picture of you having a bit too much fun socializing or even something small, such as a controversial 'like' page. It's not just corporate companies doing these checks, students have also been had their information frisked by Universities and Colleges to whom they have sent applications. All of this can simply be prevented in a matter of seconds by refining security settings on sites which contain your information. You don't need a sophisticated social background checker to ruin your career though; American politician Anthony Weiner learnt this the hard way when he accidently sent an explicit image of himself to a female follower on twitter publicly. The picture was removed swiftly and Weiner denied ever posting it, but it didn't matter that the tweet had been removed quickly, the internet had gotten it quicker and the image was now circulating the web. After weeks of denying posting responsibility, blaming hackers instead, Weiner finally confessed to the truth and was forced to resign. In its early days, the web was a thriving location for anonymity, but with the rise of Facebook, the use of a single identity online and off has become much more prevalent in recent years. Anonymity is seen by those who own Facebook as the direst aspect of the internet, serving only to bring out the worst in us. If you have ever take the time to glance at the comments on a Youtube video, chances are you can attest to this; the likelihood of finding hate filled, idiotic and offensive comments crafted with the grammar of a five year old, is sadly, quite high. The mask of anonymity can fool many into believing they are untraceable, but anonymity after all is nothing more than the lack of a name. In February 2009 a Youtube user who titled himself "Timmy" uploaded two videos which showed him physically abusing a cat by the name of Dusty. Members of the rogue image board 4chan got hold of the video. They were so disgusted by what they had seen; an online witch hunt for the culprit began. The community was able to track down the uploaders Myspace profile in less than 24 hours, with nothing more than the information from the videos and his Youtube channel and within 48 hours of the search he was arrested. Anonymity should viewed upon negatively as it is allows creativity and experimentation among those who use it in a sensible manner. Anonymity also brings equality. Without knowing a posters gender, age, religious beliefs or race; we can only judge the person by the content which they have presented and not any pre-existing prejudice. This is refreshing in a society filled with stereotype and prejudice. Facebook's push for a single transparent identity is leading us towards a future where we have a single account for every site. This transformation is already taking place with the aid of features like Facebook Connect, which allows users to post on different websites across the web with their Facebook account. Before we may even realise it, all of our information might be stored under one account which we use across the entire web for everything from socializing to e-commerce. In a world where our online reputation and real life reputation are one, we will have to become increasingly cautious of what we share with the online world. 
