online
{ Craig Hughes 
    August 03 2012 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/online-shopping-will-take-20bn-out-of-economy-26882846.html }
ONLINE shopping could devastate the Irish economy unless a drastic national digital strategy is put in place. According to the Digital Hub Development Agency (DHDA), Irish consumers will spend more than €20bn online each year by 2017, with no strategy in place to keep that money in Ireland. Chairman of the DHDA, Leonard Donnelly, said that most of the money spent online by Irish consumers went to companies in the UK and that the Government needed to put digital at the heart of the economic agenda. "The DHDA has been working closely with its parent department -- the Department of Communications, Energy and Natural Resources -- to develop a digital strategy, and we look forward to seeing this launched and implemented in the coming years," he said. "The choice for how far Ireland reaches with a next-generation network is critical to our future success. "The quality of the strategic decisions the Government takes in digital can have the effect of forcing through the economy into a different place -- beyond the crisis era.  Agenda "With the new national digital strategy, the Government must ensure digital is at the heart of the economic agenda," he added. Irish consumers spend close to €4bn online each year, with 75pc going overseas, mainly to the UK. The DHDA is working alongside the Department of Communications to formulate a new digital strategy. Morgan Lynch, CEO of financial accounting software company Yendo, said there was an immediate need for consumers to be able to identify Irish products online. "We do all of our business online, and have no land-based outlet to sell our product. We have no way of identifying ourselves as Irish online; we need to create an online community where people can identify Irish businesses. "At the moment, there is nothing like the guaranteed Irish mark or anything that can identify that the company has reached a certain standard. "We really need consumers here to be more educated when it comes to shopping online and using online products," he said. The DHDA believes that Ireland must re-educate all aspects of Irish society to ensure that everyone can access the digital economy, as well as create a world-class communications infrastructure to establish itself as a digital powerhouse. Irish Independent 
