online
{ Tom Kellymanagement and technology manager 
    March 15 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/farmers-use-of-ict-is-lower-than-expected-25994952.html }
INFORMATION from the National Farm Survey 2004 suggests that farmers' use of IT in running the farm is lower than expected. A lot of farmers, 40pc, now have computers and many have bought them for farm and family use. The key question is: are they being used enough for the farm to show a benefit to the business? * Of those farmers who said they had a personal computer, 33pc said it was used mainly for farm use. 47pc of those who owned a personal computer used it primarily for family education/entertainment. Only 1pc of those that had a personal computer used it primarily for on-line transactions. The remainder used it for other purposes. * The survey indicates that about 15,000 farmers use a personal computer for the farm business. Of these, 47pc use it as a means of keeping their herd register, 61pc used it for farm accounts, 11pc used it for VAT returns, 26pc for individual cow records while 38pc used it for internet and email type communications. * Over 14,500 farmers (13pc) have ever purchased something on-line. However, most of these purchases were flight tickets, holidays, household goods, books or toys. Only 1,100 had purchased farm inputs, which represents about 1pc of the total number of Irish farmers represented in the sample. In contrast just under half of the general population between 16 and 74 have used the internet and almost 41pc of these have ordered goods or services online for private use (CSO 2004). 
Some of the benefits computers can bestow: * 
Record-keeping: Computer software packages can store large quantities of data which can be utilised later. The principle of single data entry is important. This means that once a piece of information is entered correctly once, it doesn't need to be re-entered anywhere else in the same system. All farm software packages provide excellent facilities for efficient record keeping. Examples of good record-keeping facilities are the herd register, calving and AI records. The experience of many farmers is that maintaining records takes time and, therefore, users should not underestimate the effort required initially and at times when large volumes of data are generated, calving, AI, etc. Some farmers delegate one member of the family to manage the records or get someone to come in for an hour or two periodically to keep things up to date. * 
Analysis: Computers can convert data into usable information through analysis. At its simplest, the computer can do the sums and give you the result. Accountancy software can produce, statements, profit and loss, balance sheet, etc. Farm software can produce expected calving dates, dry-off dates, etc. There are real benefits to be got from analysis and this is what influences decision-making. Computers help by standardising the way analysis is done and will not make mistakes. The Profit Monitor Analysis is now an on-line service which can improve decision-making and provides vital information for progressive farmers. * 
Communication: Email and internet are the means by which people communicate cheaply. Email is now available on 3G mobile phones. It is possible to participate in discussion forums on the web or even produce your own website. To get access to email and internet you need to register with an internet service provider and set your username and password. You can opt for fixed charge and a certain amount of free access or pay full charges on your access time. Providers allow you to set up multiple users and even a small website. Pay-as-you-go probably works out cheaper for those not using the net too frequently. * 
Information sourcing: This is the big area which has taken off in the last 10 years through the worldwide web. If you are looking for a tractor, machine, spare part, rare breed or anything you care to mention from a split pin to a forage harvester, you can search the internet using the web. You can look at thousands of second-hand items of farm machinery, 4 x 4s, cars, both here in Ireland and the UK on-line. It is a very useful facility for all farmers with an interest in machinery. You can use the internet to get quotations for finance on-line, check your share values - even your lotto numbers. Teagasc provides free access for its clients to www.client.teagasc.ie. Clients can log on to the client site free of charge using a personal password. Once online, they can view a vast amount of technical information and make full use of the on-line services the site offers. * 
On-line services: These are key to the future use of computers on farms. We have all seen the trend in airline bookings where now it is the cheapest way to make a travel plan by booking flights on-line. With 3rd generation mobile phones (3G) and in cab communications modules, new flexibility has arrived allowing better access to on-line services. The major benefit of all on-line services is that they are quicker and available 24 hours a day seven days a week. The high-speed access which broadband offers city and townspeople is not generally available and may be more expensive for farmers. 
