online
{ Caitriona Murphy 
    May 21 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/using-techology-to-cash-in-on-the-online-horse-market-29281811.html }
This week seven years ago I watched as two men facing each other across a sales ring and bid against each to buy a two-year-old sport horse colt. To say this colt didn't have a great hind leg to him would be the understatement of the century – from the hock down, his leg was almost perpendicular to the ground but yet he sold for €700. It was the height of the Celtic Tiger boom and everything could be sold. Fast forward to 2013 and breeders of quality horses, sound in every way, can struggle to get bids for their youngstock. Market demand for horses has changed utterly in the past six years. Today, buyers want quality, sound horses with proven ability and pedigree. Those horses are out there but in order to sell them, breeders and producers need to prove that their horse has that 'special something', that their animal is better than the next one in the catalogue. Marketing is key to attracting those buyers and marketing has now moved beyond simply showing potential buyers around your yard. Technology advances mean that you can now invite potential buyers from all over the world into your yard to look at each horse in detail, with no cost incurred for the buyer. Cera Ward, head of large  customer sales with Google  Ireland, has some eye-opening statistics on the growth of the Irish online sales. Speaking at the Teagasc/ Horse Sport Ireland digital marketing conference recently, Ms Ward pointed out that there are 2.3m Irish people with access to the internet, of whom 30pc are over 45. One in every four minutes that these people spend online is spent on social media such as Facebook, Twitter and other sites. In fact, Irish people spend, on average, 19.5 hours per week online. STAGGERING In 2012, Irish consumers spent a staggering €4bn online and this is expected to grow to an eye-watering €21bn by 2017. So what does this have to do with selling horses? Few horse buyers would ever seal a deal on an animal having only seen it online, I grant you that. However the potential to attract interest from potential buyers through the internet is absolutely huge. If the first step in securing the sale of a horse is to get a buyer in the gate, then why not create a 'virtual' gate so that you can attract buyers from all over the world into your yard from the comfort of their own couches? Smartphone use is rising rapidly, with an April survey by Eircom showing that more than 1.6 million people in Ireland now have a smartphone. This means that they have constant internet access no matter where they are. What are they doing on their smartphones? According to Ms Ward of Google, the majority (73pc) are searching for information, 66pc are using social networks, 62pc are gaming, 46pc are watching videos, 35pc are reading newspapers and magazines and 18pc are using coupons to purchase goods. Last year more than 44m searches were carried out on Google for the word 'horse'. In Ireland alone, 478,000 searches were made for 'horse', while 74,000 searches were made for 'pony'. Some 22,000 searches in Ireland were for 'horses for sale', while another 6,000 searches were made for 'stallions for sale' and 2,000 searches were made for 'how to buy a horse'. While the phrase 'digital marketing' might sound off-putting to some horse producers, it is actually not too intimidating. It simply means using every available opportunity to sell your product using technology. It means using social media like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube to tell the world about your horses and what you have for sale. For example, you could tell the world about the latest foal to be born on the farm, its breeding and what its siblings are doing. You could tweet about your horse's latest double clear or personal best dressage test, with links to pictures and video on your website. For examples of how to use digital marketing well, Lorraine Griffin of the Digital Marketing Institute pointed to Irish international show jumper Cian O'Connor and Burghley Horse Trials. Both use Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and other media to direct viewers to their website and keep their fans up to date with all the latest news. Commenting on their use of digital marketing, Ms Griffin said they have regular and  relevant engagement with their fans and followers, using informative and educational posts, as well as interacting and conversing with their followers. They also have great use of visuals such as photos and video content. Key to generating more traffic and interest in their sites is the use of competitions and special offers to their followers. They also link between  different social channels. For example, Cian O'Connor tweets about his latest results, with links to videos of his latest  competitions on YouTube and Facebook. When it comes to selling horses in Ireland, DoneDeal.ie is perhaps the best known online access point for thousands of buyers and sellers. Sellers can upload adverts easily and quickly, with a fast  payment system and an easy to navigate search system for potential buyers. GATEWAY However, there are a number of new entries to the online horse sales business, with Horse Sport Ireland behind the Irish Horse Gateway (www.irishhorsegateway.ie). The online advertising website for quality horses for sale in Ireland is still in its infancy but is targeting buyers from all over the world. Unlike other sites, the Irish Horse Gateway requires sellers to sign up to a code of conduct and also requires all horses sold on the site to have a recorded pedigree. The aim, according to Horse Sport Ireland chief executive Damian McDonald, is fourfold: * To help breeders and producers in Ireland to market high quality Irish horses and ponies in the global market; * To give foreign buyers increased confidence in buying horses and ponies in Ireland; * To assist foreign buyers in sourcing reputable providers of other services they may require; * To provide market feedback to Irish breeders and producers. Wicklow-based business  partners Loraine Fegan and Fiona McCann are behind another new online sales  website for Irish horses, www.horsemarket.ie. The website is divided into two main sections, with sellers classifying their horses as either 'Popular Irish Horses' or 'Quality Sport Horses'. The former category is designed to include horses suitable for amateur or leisure riders and would include 'all-rounder' horses that can turn a hoof to most equestrian disciplines. The latter category is designed to include horses produced by professionals and have competitive experience that is recorded by the official bodies such as Eventing Ireland or Showjumping Ireland. The site also allows buyers to list their horses as Traditionally-bred Irish Sport Horses. To be eligible to advertise in this category, horses must have a pedigree which has been  officially recorded back three generations and includes , some or all of three  specific breeds; Irish Draught,  Connemara or Thoroughbred. "We are focused on the UK and there are buyers in the UK who are particularly fond of the traditional bred Irish horses so this category directs them to the type of horse they want," explained Ms Fegan. Uniquely, horsemarket.ie offers a service to sellers who simply do not have either the time or expertise to create advertisements for their  animals. "We can, for a fee, go out to your yard and take photographs and videos of your animals, along with the description of each animal so that we can  create your advertisement for you," said Ms Fegan. Digital marketing might sound intimidating but for breeders, owners and riders who have invested lots of money and hundreds of hours of work into producing a top quality animal, a few more hours spent online could be the difference between a mediocre sale price and a great return on your investment. Irish Independent 
