online
{ GETTING INTO COLLEGE  by Mary O'Donnell 
    January 18 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/perils-and-pitfalls-of-online-applications-26099592.html }
It is the experience of this columnist over the years that new procedures often take a little getting used to. The increase in online applications to CAO this year is a case in point.  CAO has asked us to convey a message to applicants who  intend to apply online: It appears that some online applicants are sending CAO their application fee payment  form, apparently in the belief that CAO needs evidence of payment. However, CAO can trace the applicant's payments  into its account by using the sequence number from the  form which they entered on-screen when they applied online, and that is all CAO needs or wants to do. Online standard applications A problem arose for an applicant who planned to use pages three and four of the CAO form to detail previous further and third-level educational experience but who had began to enter her application online. This applicant paid her fee to the bank (£19 rather than £20 because it was an online application), and she entered the sequence number from her fee payment form and proceeded with her application until she realised that the electronic application form had no pages three and four. So what was she to do now? Could she apply with a paper application? Did she need to pay a second fee or could she just pay another £1? The applicant is perfectly entitled to go ahead with a paper application, provided that she did not continue with her online application and submit it to CAO. If she has done that, she should wait until CAO sends her an application number and then she should send in her copies of pages three and four. But if she did not submit the online application, she should just proceed with the paper application, enclosing part one of her fee payment form because all paper applicants are asked to return this. CAO suggested that she sellotapes a £1 coin to her application form. Although it does not like to receive cash with the application form, it will accept it under these circumstances. It is always important to emphasise that most people are operating both online and paper applications without any difficulty, and that minor problems of this order are not serious and can be rectified. The worst case scenario for most people is that if they make some little error with their application form and CAO has to return it to them for amendment, the applicant will have to pay an additional £5.50 for the trouble. That is not the end of the world. The error that CAO cannot detect is when applicants make a mistake about the courses they apply for or the order of preference in which they list them. CAO cannot read the minds of its applicants and will simply assume that they mean what they say. However, applicants may change their mind about their course choices almost without restriction up to July 1 next. Age limits for mature nurses The nursing application process continues to produce some queries. Remember, nursing application forms are available directly from CAO rather than from schools. The nursing careers centre is anxious to get across the message that nursing applications will be welcomed from all applicants and there is a special category for mature applicants. While the lower age limit for mature applicants is defined as 23 years of age by January 1 in the year of application, the nursing careers centre explanatory handbook "Nursing A career for you" does not specify any upper age limit. Applications for nursing packs should be made to CAO, Tower House, Eglinton St, Galway, ph: 091 509800, but anyone with other queries about nursing should contact An Bord Altranais, 31/32 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin 2, ph: 01-639 8500, or the Nursing Careers Centre, PO Box, 6703, Dublin 2, ph: 1 890 313111. 
