online
{ Andrea Byrne 
    September 16 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/man-shopping-at-the-online-meat-market-26416367.html }
IT'S been over eight years since Meg Ryan curled up with her computer, yearning to hear those three little words: "You've got mail". Cupid, the Roman God of Love, received advancement in his arsenal with the invention of the World Wide Web. But can romance really be found at the other end of a modem cable? In the past, internet dating has carried a negative stigma. Meeting people in cyberspace was considered creepy; mostly associated with ugly, desperate and dirty old men who spend long hours hanging around in chat rooms and leering at message boards. However, times are changing and in this fast-paced and time-starved society, internet dating is revving up the lives of many Irish singles, putting them in the driving seat of their own love life. Recent research has suggested that 10 per cent of single Irish people are using internet dating services as an alternative to chance encounters in the local. The same research has suggested that by 2008 six out of 10 singles will be looking for love online. Just like other examples of social modernity, the trend is supposedly hot and the stigma is apparently passe, but I am not convinced. Why can't people just meet someone the old-fashioned way - ie head down to the nearest nightclub, drink gallons of booze and share amorous glances with someone across the dance floor? However, Ireland's unattached population is purportedly becoming increasingly frustrated by the contemporary dating scene and the Irish 'I need 10 drinks down my neck before I make a move' mentality. Will technology eventually call time on the drunken pub fumble? As an internet dating sceptic, I was eager to quash my own ignorance, narrow-mindedness and potentially-inaccurate preconceptions about the world of online dating. I mean, what had I got to lose? I have always opted for the more mainstream and orthodox dating practices and there hasn't exactly been a multitude of male admirers banging down my door in an attempt to woo me. I decided, therefore, for the purpose of this article to investigate the virtues (or otherwise) of internet dating. Would it be Love at first Byte? Getting started: Unsurprisingly, the internet abounds with dating sites, a multitude of which are Irish-owned and operated. Most sites work in the same basic way - you register as a member, create a profile about yourself that members see, and then you search other profiles for people you'd like to meet. Most sites are free to register, but many do require you to pay a nominal fee to use their services. After choosing a high-profile, Irish-run dating site, crafting my profile was to prove a tricky task. How do I come across as cool, and not desperate? And most importantly, how do I get across that seeking online social interaction really isn't something I usually do, without sounding cliche? 'I am a chatty, fun-loving 22-year-old, who loves reading, writing, socialising, shopping and travelling.' I tried to be as truthful as possible in my profile until the question of profession cropped up, where I erred on the side of caution, opting for 'schoolteacher'. I sculpted what I thought to be a normal and natural profile, and before I could second-guess myself, I submitted it. Armed with an alias, I was all set. Coward that I am, I chose not to upload a personal picture. Aside from the mortification it could cause, I was fearful that some sordid characters might paste my picture anywhere they liked, in any context - a shady Swedish porn site offering S&M services came to mind. The online manhunt: Almost upon immediate completion and submission of my profile, I had five new emails and three winking smiley faces. 'Hi, Derek here from northside Dublin, click on my photos to see me. I don't suppose you fancy some casual fun today? Lol xx.' Less than five minutes on a cyber-dating space and already I have an offer of some 'casual fun'. Furthermore, I received an email from Diego, a self-confessed Italian stallion and lover of Irish women, who felt the need to enlighten me on the size of his family jewels. I also received a short, but nonetheless, direct email from 'Kiwibot', simply saying, 'You sound interesting, wanna have sex?' Two weeks on and this guy has emailed me an additional eight times. Had I profiled myself as some buxom, blonde-haired nymphomaniac who was up for anything, I could understand attracting such folk. But my profile was bordering on the boring. The content of the dating sites and the profiles range from amusing to pitiful - introspective to truly troubling. Within 24 hours of being a member, I had 27 emails, despite the fact that I didn't initiate any contact whatsoever. Would a man receive as many requests from women? To investigate, I asked a male friend to craft a profile to see how many online female advances he received within the same timeframe. Zero is the answer, not even a measly token hit. A week later, his email tally remained the same, at which point I asked him to turn gay for the purpose of this investigation. Let's just say this 'man seeking man' received a number of rather suggestive emails. This would give weight to my original pre-conception that online dating is in fact a testosterone dominated zone. 'DirtyHarry', 'Wildstallion', 'Jaynormous', 'Solid Snake' and 'Dingdong2006' were just a number of the self-named delights that flooded my email every day. As you can imagine, I navigated through them with caution. Another fruitcake called 'Horseballs' kept emailing me. First impression: a zoophilist with a propensity to fantasise. 'Hi dear! Wanna new friend, or maybe more? Well you have three options: 1st no, 2nd try it, 3rd yes, whatever you decide, bye.' Needless to say, I chose option number one. After just a week of my online dating tenure, I had over 50 emails in my inbox, at which point I decided that it was about time I conquered my fear, swallowed my pride, and actually initiated correspondence with at least one potential suitor. But who to choose? Being the fickle female that I am, I would have been lured by picture-perfect profiles, but unfortunately they were few and far between. Therefore, I was reduced to relying solely on internet etiquette. Judging by the plethora of sexual requests I received on a weekly basis, many men think the women logging on are either good-time girls or of the swinging kind. Some people clearly see internet dating as a convenient way of having no-strings-attached sex. A guy called Shane emailed me; he seemed polite - no sexual innuendo, no plays on the whole disciplinarian teacher thing (which became a frequent occurrence) so I decided to respond. We emailed each other every day for about a week at which point the mind-numbingly boring online exchanges became too painful. As the weeks went on I found myself developing a rather acerbic sense of humour, particularly with guys who insisted on asking stupid questions and using lazy text-talk. HappyGilmore100: 'Wotz ur name & wot ru lookin 4?' Me: 'A new armchair - maybe something with a pretty paisley print, oh and a six-foot diameter solid oak round table - do you deliver? This is Ikea online isn't it?' Doncorleone: 'Ur profile is gr8 where ru?' Me: 'In my study.' Doncorleone: 'I c but where is dat?' Me: 'Between the kitchen and the downstairs loo, now bugger off!' Meanwhile, another cyber suitor, named Michael mailed me and he seemed genial. Playing a few guys at the same time, I felt like a real online hussy, but it's just so easy to do. After three weeks of online dating, I felt rather adventurous and agreed to meet Michael (the most sane man I had encountered) for a drink in the city centre. The Date: On Wednesday night after weeks of dread, I suppressed my trepidation and, armed with a can of mace, I headed off to meet Michael. To ensure the utmost safety and immediate escape clause (just in case he turned out to be a complete basket-case), I told a friend exactly where I was and ordered phone calls at 30-minute intervals. Before we arranged to meet he had texted me saying that he was tall, and had light brown hair. Umm, sounds promising, maybe I have got a bit of a George Clooney lookalike on my hands. I walked into the bar with a newfound spring in my step, only to find somebody who looked more like George Jetson than George Clooney. So he had blatantly lied minutes before meeting me. "Oh, hi Michael, nice to meet you, by the way you weren't supposed to be a ginger!" what an icebreaker that would be. Not that I have anything against people with red hair, but I didn't understand nor appreciate the fact that he felt the need to lie about it. We exchanged an awkward half-hearted peck and engaged in the usual chitchat and told a few bunny-boiler online dating tales. Despite a prior vow of alcohol abstinence, I sculled a tepid and distinctly dodgy glass of white wine in record time. I had to keep telling myself to act like a schoolteacher. So I rambled on about nurturing and educating our nation's youth and about how utterly fulfilling and rewarding it is, blah, blah, blah. I'd say it was equally as tortuous for him as it was for me. Unfortunately, Michael wasn't blessed with the gift of the gab and he didn't have an awful lot to say for himself. So, I resorted to plan B: spark up a conversation about football - which always gets men going. It worked. The pre-arranged phone calls also proved a welcome diversion. Michael wasn't exactly a barrel of laughs, nor did the chemistry and physical attraction leave me salivating excessively, but all things considered, he was a normal, nice gentleman. That said, it took me nearly a month to actually find this guy. By the end of my tenure of online dating I had received 132 emails, sent 22, received 84 smiley faces and sent four. Most online dating sites claim that you won't receive many advances unless you upload a picture, but this is not the case. The pros and cons: Internet dating is the chocolate-box approach to love: take a nibble and move on, because a better (or worse) tasting chocolate might be next. Most people will agree that the best way of meeting someone and, ultimately, forming a relationship with that person is via introductions from family and friends and through a work-related environment. Not everyone, however, is granted that privilege. The plain fact of the matter is that as people get older it's harder to find romance. Online dating is certainly cost-efficient and conducive to a busy lifestyle. From a female perspective, the best part is that it requires a minimal amount of preening - you can go man-shopping at 3am, in your teddy-bear pyjamas, a spotty, make-up-less face and fuzzy legs. You don't have to worry that your red 'pulling' dress makes you look like a sack of chestnuts in jelly. You can scoff deep-fried duck with one hand while tapping out urgent love notes with the other. And as fast as you send them out, the replies come flooding in. If you are in desperate need of some immediate male or female attention, then internet dating is for you. For introverted people, online dating is the perfect way of getting over a fear of conversing with the opposite sex. You have time to consider what you want to say. The days of stuttering and spluttering out unintelligible phrases are over. A Reformed online-dater-hater? After my direct dealings with the world of internet dating, I am not a convert, nor do I hope that I will be forced to resort to online dating in the future. That said, my outright abhorrence of it has been marginally suppressed. The demographic of the users is undeniably younger than I had previously imagined. However, I still believe that it is a hotbed for some seriously-seedy activity and an electronic meat market. Contrary to what people may now say, online dating, as a modern-day mating ritual has yet to come into the full glare of daylight - the stigma still exists and it is still crouching down in the shadows of shame. 
