online
{ Ed Power 
    November 07 2013 09:40 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/how-to-keep-your-children-safe-online-29736087.html }
The internet and teen indiscretion were created for one another. A new survey has found more than half of teenagers in Ireland hide their online history from parents and that, astonishingly, one-in-10 has actually met someone they first contacted via the web. This follows reports of a vogue among teens for taking 'selfie' snapshots at funerals and posting the images to their social-media feeds, and warnings that adolescent boys may be buying potentially dangerous health supplements over the internet to 'bulk up' before their bodies are ready. We are less than a decade into the era of universal internet access so it is simply too early to say how exposure to pornography or graphic images online may impact teens, beyond the obvious point that it can't be good for them. "Some teenagers are excited by pornography, but many girls in particular are frightened by it," says Pat McKenna, founder of childwatch.ie. "Should a 13-year-old girl emerging from puberty have to have an expectation of sexual interaction with a boy, often acting through material that they have seen online? Online porn ...  is sexualising young teenagers in particular before they are old enough to emotionally and conceptually deal with such a fundamental aspect of life." And that's without even touching on cyber-bullying, or online grooming by adults posing as children. – But there are some concrete steps you can take to discreetly keep tabs on what your child is doing. 1 No computers in the bedroom  No teenager should be allowed a computer in the bedroom according to the American Academy of Pediatrics. "I guarantee you that if you have a 14-year-old boy and he has an internet connection in his bedroom, he is looking at pornography," says Victor Strasburger, lead author of a new set of guidelines by the Academy. Smartphones and text messaging should also be prohibited from bedrooms, according to the organisation, which recommended teens' internet usage to limited to two hours each day, excluding homework. 2 Set clear ground rules  The internet may resemble a digital wild west. But there's no reason why you can't introduce some law and order to your children's web habits. Make it clear to your kids that they are not to give personal details, such as name and address online and never to share passwords or create anonymous profiles. If you find out they have done any of the above, withdraw their internet access immediately. 3 Use WebWatcher  There is an ongoing debate whether parents should , in essence, 'spy' on their children. The most popular option is WebWatcher, which retails at around €80, and monitors all activity on your computer, from individual keystrokes to surfing habits. You'll see the whole picture – even if you are paying for the privilege. 4 Be aware of fake accounts  As teenagers aren't stupid, they are probably well aware you are monitoring their Facebook accounts, Twitter feeds and so on. Some may be tempted to set up second or third accounts under fake names to remove themselves from your attention. Be on the look out for this – if your child's social media presence seems a little too 'butter-wouldn't-melt' to be true, something may be going on behind the scenes. 5 Insist on Facebook privacy settings  Before you allow you teens on Facebook, ensure their account has its privacy settings ratcheted up to the max, so that only friends can see personal details, photographs etc. 6 Monitor browser history  The new report from McAfee, the anti-virus company, shows that many teens delete their browser 'history' before their parents can check what they've been up to. Nothing is more suspicious than a wiped 'history' folder. If your kid's is blanker than a snowfield confront them, in whatever way you consider appropriate. What are they trying to hide? 7 Sit with young kids  This week's report pertains to teenagers. However, children as young as three are going online, via YouTube and similar services. Sit with your young child when they are using the internet. They have not yet developed a sense of boundaries and need an adult riding shotgun as they take their first steps into cyberspace. 8 Know who your kids are talking to  You can discourage your teens from visiting chatrooms and posting to message boards, but that's not going to stop them. So be proactive and keep tabs on who they are speaking to. Insist on no 'private browsing' sessions on the family computer and don't be afraid to peek over their shoulder while they are communicating. 9 Is a smartphone a good idea?  Remember, the modern iPhone or Android equivalent has the same computing power as a five-year-old laptop. Would you let you child go everywhere with an internet-enabled Macbook? Plenty of clunky, old-fashioned handsets are available. Maybe the smartphone can wait until their 16th birthday. 10 Be internet savvy  It's not enough to be vaguely aware that bad things happen on the internet. If your kids are regular web users, you need to be too. Friend them on Facebook, start a Twitter feed, go online as often as you can. The more you know about the web the closer an eye you will be able to keep on your teens. "The single most important tool is trust," says Pat McKenna. "A child or teen must know that if they are exposed to something that they should not be, or scared by some approach from a person online, or being bullied, that their first and most important port of call is their parent. It is therefore incumbent on the parent to always communicate with their children and ensure that where something is going wrong online, they will be there for them, and will help them without threat of sanction." Irish Independent 
