online
{  
    March 15 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/the-devils-in-all-the-little-e-tails-26093347.html }
A recent survey reveals a brighter future for online shopping  than we thought, and some trends that go against perceived  wisdom. AN CAMPBELL reports. NEITHER the collapse of high profile UK e-tailers nor the ongoing jitters about all things dot.com have had an adverse effect on internet shopping, according to a new report by Ernst & Young. Based on data gathered from 12 countries around the world, two thirds of the respondents had bought something online in the last year, with this figure rising to 75pc among UK and German consumers, and hitting a high of 74pc in the US. Too good to be true? Of course. The catch is that the 4,400 interviewees were already online shoppers. Only 43pc of the online population in the UK, for example and around 18pc in Ireland actually buy anything over the net, so the Ernst & Young report is based very much on talking to the converted. Still, it is good news for a marketplace that has had more than its fair share of flak, since it demonstrates loyalty from core customers. You lose them and you have lost everything. But perhaps the boldest claim, in a report that is a throwback to the upbeat e-business analysis of yore, was that bricks and mortar shopping is starting to feel the effect of e-tail. More than half of all the online buyers interviewed and 76pc of the frequent buyers were starting to shop less in the real world. But until such time as these hardcore surf 'n' shoppers dramatically grow in numbers, one suspects that the local high street has little to fear. However, the Ernst & Young report, along with some other recent research, suggests genuine progress for online retail, not least because some of the old objections are losing credence. For a while it seemed that there was a high level of consumer concern about giving out credit card details over the web. However hard security firms and dot.coms tried to sell the strengths of 128-bit encryption and secure payment solutions, the prospect of fraud seemed to pose a serious threat to the growth in online transactions. At the end of last year, a breach of security at Bibliofind, a subsidiary of the world's most famous consumer web company, didn't help matters. When hackers accessed credit card details of Amazon customers, e-business sceptics were pleased to announce that they had "told you so". But one high profile intrusion doesn't tell the whole story. Earlier this month in the UK, the Association for Payment Clearing Services (APCS) announced fraud losses of around £7 million in the 'card-not-present-category'. This lumps mail order and telemarketing in with the internet, and while the figure had nearly doubled since 2000, the APCS concludes that the losses "remain modest". Certainly, compared to total card fraud for the year, which amounts to £300m, it's practically loose change and much less than was feared by net-watchers and some credit card companies. As usual, the US leads the way, but for once it's not something to boast about. An FBI report says that 94.1pc of all online fraud complaints reported to the Internet Fraud Complaint Centre emanate form the US. However, credit card fraud accounts for just 5pc of complaints, while the bulk was to do with non-delivery of products. The worst offenders were auction sites such as Ebay where undelivered merchandise or non-payment were the biggest problems. With payment fraud put firmly in perspective, what other obstacles remain to deter the online shopper? The Ebay example gives us a clue. The last year has seen many websites fail to live up their promises as far as delivery is concerned. While it is still an issue, there are signs that things are getting better in the US, which has a way of setting internet trends. A Stateside survey revealed that this Christmas, only 8pc of attempted online orders failed to be delivered compared to 26pc the year before. This is a big leap forward that suggests dot.coms are learning that they must do or die. In an avalanche of post-Christmas analysis, several other factors are becoming clearer about e-tail. A new emphasis on site simplicity queries the pitch of every solutions company that has tried to sell its clients elaborate customer profiling software. Just to prove that nothing can be taken for granted in e-business, PricewaterhouseCoopers research would suggest that personalisation held up by many (including me) as a killer application of the web is no guarantee of turning a surfer into sale. In fact, filling out forms could well put potential customers off. It seems most online shoppers have little time for the fancy bells and whistles. What they want, apparently, are decent search capabilities to speed up the shopping process and plenty of product information to peruse. In the Ernst & Young report, there was a telling discrepancy between what online e-tailers thought they were doing right and the real reason customers were spending money with them. The website proprietors believed shoppers visited their site because of convenience, trust and name recognition, whereas nearly 64pc of those surveyed were there because of good merchandise selection followed by competitive pricing. Site user-friendliness and product availability were further down the priority list, registering 42pc and 34pc respectively. In terms of what they buy, here at least there were fewer surprises. True to form, books, CDs and other assorted software topped the shopping lists, but clothes are starting to make a show another development that goes against the popular perception of web-watchers. There is something scary about the fact that the bulk of the new research inadvertently suggests that Amazon selling books, lots of them defined a model that is yet to be surpassed. But perhaps there's an even greater truth, one that was identified by writer William Goldman in his book about the film industry, 'Adventures In The Screentrade'. Talking about the movers and shakers who sought to second-guess what the public really wants, he came to a conclusion that probably holds as true for e-business protagonists as Hollywood moguls. Nobody knows anything. 
