online
{  
    January 05 2013 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/its-time-to-name-and-shame-the-cyber-bullies-28954948.html }
In the final weeks of 2012, Ireland was rocked by a wave of tragic suicides linked to cyber bullying. The family of Meath TD Shane McEntee, who took his own life just days before Christmas, lashed out at the 'faceless internet trolls' who had subjected the popular junior minister to a 'torrent of abuse' after the Budget. As his colleagues left Leinster House for the winter recess, reeling from the loss of one of their own, they vowed that tackling the scourge of online harassment would be high on the political agenda in 2013. In the coming weeks, the Oireachtas Committee on Transport and Communications will hold a special meeting to examine the issue with a view to introducing regulations and/or legislation to deal with it. Committee chairman, Tipperary TD Tom Hayes, has called for 'controls', saying the problem can no longer "go unchecked, where people can put up vile comments and get away with it". But his words fell on deaf ears in cyberspace. During the Christmas break, many of his colleagues became the victims of an unprecedented level of personal attack on websites. A few days before Christmas, it was suggested on Twitter that anti-abortion campaigner Senator Ronan Mullen be "crucified with rusty nails". This week, European Affairs Minister Lucinda Creighton revealed she had been sent "vile and threatening" emails. But calls for tighter controls on social media from the political elite are met with frustration by many who work at the coalface of social-media bullying. The notion of introducing a law that will stamp out online abuse is futile, they say, as legislation is already in place but is just not being used by gardai, victims or families. They cite the Non-Fatal Offences Against the Person Act 1997. "In Ireland, we already have laws that can be used to deal with cyber-bullying," says online security expert Paul C Dwyer, president of the International Cyber Threat Task Force. "There needs to be a public awareness campaign to drive home the fact that what is illegal offline is illegal online. If people think they can hide anonymously behind their computer, they are wrong. In many cases, their identity can be easily found out through their IP address. It is not sophisticated criminals doing this. "But the solution lies in education, and making cyber bullies aware that they can be very easily prosecuted. People are not using the law because they do not know it is there. If a child is being bullied online, some parents might go to the local garda station, but the local guard doesn't understand any of this and they are being fobbed off. Most cases do not get past first block." Cyber crime specialists like Dwyer believe parents are also to blame for not pursuing cases. "I heard of a situation recently where a couple had just broken up and the mother took their daughter on holiday. Comments appeared on the girl's Facebook page saying her mother was out drinking all the time, leaving her alone. "You can imagine the anguish that caused, and naturally, her father went bananas. But it turned out that another girl had broken into her Facebook account. It's known as fraping – the act of raping someone's Facebook page." He said that the problem in this case was that the mother of the girl who broke into her page did not appear to understand the gravity of her child's actions. "It's people like her who need to be targeted and educated so they know their children's actions can have very serious consequences. If you give a child an iPad and don't tell them what they can and cannot do, you are giving them access to something that could kill them or someone else." Lawyers specialising in online abuse believe a landmark legal action here could curb the problem. "It would help if victims started to take a stand," says employment law solicitor Linda Hynes of Leman Solicitors. "It will come down to a couple of test cases to ascertain what online harassment actually is and who is responsible. There are sufficient ways the gardai can prosecute. "Employers need to take a much stronger role as they could find themselves implicated, too. If an employee sends an abusive tweet or email from work, even from their own smartphone in the canteen, their boss could be deemed vicariously liable if it was held to be in the scope of their employment. Companies need to make it clear that online abuse won't be tolerated if it happens during work time." Lifting the veil of anonymity on internet trolls and forcing them to use real names is seen by some as another way to stamp out the vast amount of offensive material online. Social networks Facebook and Google+ have been at the forefront of a corporate battle to make users log in using their real names. Known online as the 'nymwars', it is widely believed to be less about opposing pseudonyms and more about giving companies access to information about users which is valuable to advertisers. Pseudonym advocates say without anonymity the world would be deprived of whistle-blowing freedom fighters whose tweets from countries like Egypt and Iran have shed light on the actions of repressive regimes. Joichi Ito, head of the Media Lab at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, says the real risk is if information technology pivots to "a completely authentic identity for everyone". "In the US, maybe you don't mind. If every kid in Syria, every time they used the internet, their identity was visible, they would be dead." Critics also argue that real-name policies adopted in some countries ended in failure. South Korea introduced such a law in 2007 after the suicide of an actress who had been bullied online. Last year, a massive security breach occurred when hackers stole the national identity numbers (equivalent of PPS) of 35 million internet users who had been forced to provide them when registering on websites to verify their identity. The debacle not only left the country with an identity theft crisis – it also stifled political debate online. Last year, the government decided to abandon the real-name policy. The Australian government, too, has rejected its five-year plan to introduce a compulsory filter blocking offensive internet content. Opponents said it would put the country on a censorship par with China, which has passed a measure requiring all internet users to register their real names. Whether this is a route that Irish legislators will choose to go down in 2013 is unknown. But what is almost certain is that it is only a matter of time before another life is lost through cyber intimidation. "Are we going to wait until there are 10 children dead, or 20?" asks Dwyer. "The cyber 9/11 for Ireland may be the death of a politician. There is a way out of this. The game-changer will be a prosecution, the naming and shaming of a cyber bully. We have the technology and the law to do it. We just have to act on it." Indo Review 
