online
{ Peter Flanagan 
    March 25 2015 04:43 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/commercial-property/all-systems-go-for-allsop-after-online-auction-success-31094579.html }
Online auctions have huge potential in the property industry, and can bring a new level of transparency to the market according to Allsop chief executive Stephen McCarthy. Speaking after his firm had successfully completed its first online auction, Mr McCarthy said his team were preparing to run two more auctions in relatively quick succession as they  the model for its advantages and its limits. "We believe it will take three auctions or so for us to iron out the kinks in the system and see what works fine and what aspects, if any, need refinement," he said. The first online auction completed last week and has been hailed as a success after 47 out  of 66 properties were sold at the auction. Mr McCarthy notes that of the remaining 19 properties that were not sold, potential buyers have continued to express interest in them since the auction closed. "There were 43 buyers in total and 5 of them were local. However eight came from overseas and included four from the UK, two from Australia, one from Qatar and one from the US. "It is likely those overseas buyers are perhaps Irish diaspora but the online auction has given them a chance to buy a property in Ireland they may not have been able to otherwise buy," said Mr McCarthy. For the chief executive, the online auctions will run alongside the much bigger "in room" auctions Allsop has become known for. "The in room auctions have been very successful and will continue to be so but we believe there is a place for the online auction going forward as well." he claimed. "As an industry we have to realise that younger people in particular do not do things the way we did. When was the last time you walked into a travel agent to book a holiday?". The online space has been very successful elsewhere and I think it has great potential to do that here as well". Indo Business 
