online
{  
    August 21 2012 01:12 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/woman/celeb-news/sponsored-feature-an-introduction-to-online-dating-26889637.html }
So you may be thinking of trying online dating, you may have just joined, or you may be dismissing it because you don’t think it will work for you. Either way, chances are you’re in the market for love right now. The truth is, online dating is no different from any other conventional way of meeting a prospective partner and, like most singletons, you’re probably bored of trawling the same bars and clubs, seeing the same faces at work, and sick of being asked ‘so how come you’re still single then’. The thing is you’re not completely convinced by online dating. I mean, you don’t need online dating just yet do you? You’re popular, attractive, you’ve got a good social life and most people that go online are weirdo’s aren’t they? Besides, you’re not that desperate right? So here’s the thing. Everyone hates the idea of online dating until they try it. It feels like a last resort and almost like admitting to yourself ‘Ok I can’t find myself a man, I need help’. But that shouldn’t be the case. In actual fact online dating is now just as common place as social networking. The only difference between the two is that instead of nurturing existing relationships as you do with social networking sites, you’re actively creating new connections and relationships. These are the people that you will go on to add on your social networking sites. So you see, it’s all relative. Plus a girl can never have to many friends, or is that shoes? In a world where we find it hard enough to juggle our jobs, our social lives, seeing our families and still squeezing in some ‘me’ time, it can often be hard to have the energy to get yourself out there and meet new people. But that’s the beauty of online dating you see. You can browse thousands of hotties, suss out their credentials from their profile, and see if they tick your boxes all from the comfort of your own home. Gone are the days of being subjected to cheesy chat up lines, being followed around all night by that guy who bought you a drink, or having the disappointment of going home without even the sniff of a phone number. Online dating means you can meet guys (who are sober), whilst wearing your pjamas and a face mask and watching X-factor with your flat mate. What online dating isn’t is a fail-safe, fast-track way to finding ‘the one’. Just like in the ‘real world’ you’ll meet boring ones, undesirable ones, and ‘not quite ticking all my boxes’ ones. But by casting your net a little wider you will have more chance of meeting the ‘don’t know how I ever lived without you’ one. Meet chat and connect with singles in your area – visit 
www.themeetingpoint.ie today. 
