online
{ Geraldine Gittens 
    November 21 2017 11:55 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/christmas/when-you-should-never-submit-your-card-details-while-shopping-online-according-to-gardai-36339814.html }
Gardai have issued a list of “dos and don’ts” for online shopping ahead of Black Friday. Irish people spent €13.2 billion online last year. It is predicted that 30pc of consumers will use their mobile phones as their main shopping tool this Christmas. "Shopping online is safe so long as we use our credit or debit cards correctly," says Sergeant Kelvin Courtney of the Garda Crime Prevention National Centre of Excellence. "We are asking people to take greater precautions when shopping online then they would if purchasing in the shops." Detective Superintendent Michael Gubbins, Garda National Cyber Crime Bureau, added: "An Garda Síochána and its partners in Europol are actively targeting cybercrimes such as online fraud. The public need to be aware that the proceeds from these fraudulent activities go to fund organised criminal gangs.” Here is An Garda Siochana's advice The Don'ts • If you are not buying a specific product or service, don’t submit your card details • Avoid doing your online shopping at sites that don’t use full authentication  • Never send your card number, PIN or any other card information to anyone by email • When purchasing something online from another person, do not send money up front • Never send your card details in an unencrypted email • Don’t send money to anyone you don’t know online Remember A recent CSO household survey found that 79pc of people who made purchases on line did not experience any problems, while just two per cent reported fraudulent activity. Niamh Davenport, Fraud Awareness and Payments Manager, Banking & Payments Federation Ireland, advised consumers and businesses, "that it is often a simple or easy measure that people can take to protect against fraud and it is important that consumers know these to avoid being vulnerable to fraudsters." "FraudSMART.ie top tips include - Never give your personal details or banking security details such as full banking password, codes /logon details, or PIN to anyone. - Be wary of unexpected emails, calls or texts." She added: "Always independently check the person is who they say they are before engaging with them and as always - If it looks too good to be true, it probably is.” Online Editors 
