online
{  
    May 31 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/fexco-offered-the-cheapest-share-deals-but-not-any-more-26043172.html }
Last week, execution-only broker Fexco raised its charges thereby losing its claim to be offering the cheapest dealing  package, writes CHARLIE WESTON THE days of the discount broker in Ireland may be disappearing, according to one leading stockbroker who claims the market here is too small to support stand-alone, cut-price share dealing. Chief operations officer of NCB John Keilty was reacting to reports in this newspaper earlier in the week that Fexco, traditionally the cheapest stockbroker, has increased its minimum commission for share trades by 60pc. The move is a blow to small investors and means that Fexco's minimum charge is now similar to that charged by rival Campbell O'Connor, and matches that charged by Davy's new online trading service. Discount or execution-only brokers and online trading offers cheap dealing by dispensing with expensive research. Investors make their own choices and get no advice from brokers. But Mr Keilty contends that the overall Irish market is relatively small and the volumes are simply not there to support stand-alone discount broking. He acknowledges that the shareholder base in Ireland has expanded significantly over recent years, but stresses that the rate of commission is no longer the deciding factor for the majority of active clients. "For them, their relationship with a broker, the reliability of the advice given and the quality of the research underpinning the advice are more important considerations." The changing regulatory environment has increased costs for retail stockbrokers, and only those firms that are prepared to make the investment in systems and controls will succeed in the long-term, he argues. Even international giants like Charles Schwab, which is number two among the world's discount brokers with 8m active online accounts, has been forced to raise its commissions sharply in the past few weeks. Mr Keilty adds: "People are placing greater emphasis on research and advice than they did in the past. They now realise investing in stocks and shares is not a one-way bet, which it was in the bubble. Investors need to be able to bounce ideas off a broker. People are now more prepared to pay for advice." Fexco managing director Stephen Elliott admits its commission charge had jumped and Fexco risked losing its position as the cheapest Irish broker. But he denied the concept of execution-only broking was dying out in Ireland. The stockbroker said it was forced to raise its costs due to increased operational and third-party costs. However, many clients had stayed with Fexco since the bursting of the telecoms/technology stock market bubble. The broker had 7,000 clients on its books. "A lot of clients have stayed with us. We have a good core trading base which is higher than others around town." Mr Elliott said Fexco does not offer online trading and he claimed it did not work for small investors. In a letter to clients, Fexco said it was now charging a minimum of ?25 on trades, while there is also an administrative charge of ?7.50. On trades valued at up to ?9,000, Fexco now charges 1.25pc, compared with 1pc on the first ?6,350 previously. Fexco's commission is 0.35pc on deals worth more than ?9,000. Mr Elliott said the increase worked out at around 20pc overall, while on dollar trades Fexco was still highly competitive. He added that Fexco had increased the standard of its service since the restrictions placed on it by the Central Bank were lifted. However, the increases mean that Fexco's competitive position is now being challenged by the recently introduced online operations of larger competitors Davy and Goodbody. These are execution-only online services. Davy charges a minimum ?25 for its online deals compared with ?45 for orders placed by telephone. For transactions up to ?25,000, the online cost is 0.75pc, and 0.5pc for deals valued at ?25,001 and above. But there is a twice yearly account maintenance fee of ?40. Goodbody charges a minimum of ?32 per trade, and 1.25pc commission on trades up to ?25,000 and 0.5pc on the balance. However, there is a ?13 twice yearly account maintenance charge, a ?13 withdrawal charge per stock and a ?40 account closure charge. This means that Davy's online operation works out the cheapest for smaller trades. Leaving aside the Fexco administrative cost, the Davy account fee and the Goodbody ancillary charges, means that a ?5,000 trade would cost ?62.50 with Fexco, the same with Goodbody Online, but just ?37.50 with Davy Online. Campbell O'Connor charges a minimum of ?25.40, and its commission rate is 1.5pc for deals up to ?8,888. NCB has a minimum charge of ?40 and charges 1.65pc for deals up to ?12,696. Whether large numbers of small Irish investors will shift away from traditional execution-only broking houses like Fexco now that low-cost online operations are entered the market, only time will tell. At least now greater options are opening up for Irish punters. 
