online
{ John Donworth 
    September 29 2009 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/online-kiwi-price-gives-hope-26569927.html }
Can we be positive about milk price for next year? I believe we can and, hopefully, this article can raise your spirits a bit. We need some light at the end of the tunnel. If you are paying attention to dairy markets across the globe, I know you will have heard of the Fonterra online trading auction for dairy commodities. This is an internet-based sales outlet for Fonterra's internationally traded dairy commodities. It became a reality early last year. In a press release, dated April 16, 2008, Fonterra said that up to 20pc of Fonterra's New Zealand-sourced dairy commodities would be sold through the online trading platform called Global Dairytrade (www.globaldairytrade.info). The online auction started in July last year with a single product. That product was whole milk powder (WMP). This product is sold globally in 25kg bags. The initial intention was to run the auction on a modest scale, with a capability to expand it over time. For instance, from November of this year, anhydrous milk fat (AMF) volumes will be offered online and I am sure Fonterra will sell an expanded range of products on the internet over time. So, why did Fonterra move away from what I am sure were well-established methods of doing business with their international customers? The seeds for this new way of trading were to be found in the way milk prices behaved in the 2007-2008 period. I am sure the rise in commodity prices caused consternation among international buyers. Fonterra felt a new way of doing business had to be found for sellers and buyers of globally traded products. Any new initiative would not only need to give greater price transparency but attempts to discover forward prices and, most important of all, managing price risks would also be needed. Managing the price risk became a huge issue during the dairy price boom. To achieve the goals outlined above, Fonterra eventually came up with the online option. Fonterra says the new system is open, fair, objective and simple. They say it gives greater control over exposure to commodity price risks. They also tell us it is a level playing field in terms of pricing and securing supply. It is a quick sales process, lasting a matter of a couple of hours and at minimal costs. When the online system launched, the first batch of whole milk powder achieved a price of $4,395/t (€2,991). By December last year, the price of had dipped to $2,223/t (€1,513). This February saw a further drop to US$1,851/t (€1,260) and the online auction was being blamed, on this side of the world, for our falling milk price. June and July of this year saw similar prices for WMP, but in last month's auction the price increased to $2,301 (€1,566). Talking about the July price of $1,829 (€1,245), Fonterra said they saw increased customer demand but buyers were wary about paying too much in an uncertain environment. Consequently, they said, buyers are taking a conservative approach with their buying as they try to second guess when the increase in demand will occur. On last month's auction, Fonterra stated: "We are seeing signs of strengthening demand and prices and that's encouraging, but the market remains dynamic with trends difficult to forecast." However, this month's online price took everyone, including Fonterra, by surprise. The price for WMP jumped to $2,858 (€1,945) -- a 24.2pc increase on last month's figure -- and Fonterra said the lift was higher than expected: "However, we anticipated WMP prices would lead the recovery because of our low global inventories and firming demand. "With demand returning, our customers have more confidence in filling their supply chains. But it remains to be seen whether demand has returned to sustainable growth." Obviously, last month's auction flushed out a few more buyers. The big question now is what price will WMP achieve next month? The really big question is, can we in Ireland take anything from the trends in the Fonterra online auction? One thing is for sure, we have reached the bottom in milk price, but when can we expect a lift? I don't expect any lift in prices here before next April or May and then I would expect a milk price of 25c/l, ie a lift of three to four cent on current prices. But all eyes will be on what happens in next month's auction. I think the Fonterra online auction will be a big help in looking at trends (see the table, below left). It is very transparent and the information is very easily accessed. Incidentally, at the peak of the boom, Fonterra's WMP price was $4,500/t (€3,062). The European price for WMP last month was between €1,840 and €,1918/t. Unfortunately, last year we only converted six percent of our manufacturing milk pool into WMP. So, why am I optimistic on milk price? I am sure all buyers of product are looking at what is happening in New Zealand. Will more buyers come into the market? With the upturn in the global economy, they certainly will. But, while there seems to be light at the end of the tunnel, don't get out the champagne just yet. Maybe a celebratory milkshake would be more in order. 
