online
{  
    January 29 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/shopping-online-can-throw-up-some-value-26022203.html }
With the euro's steep rise on the dollar, some good bargains can be had Stateside by linking up with online retailers, writes EDDIE LENNON SHOPPING online on American websites has never been more attractive to Irish consumers. The almighty dollar has slipped dramatically against the euro in recent months, and recently hit an all-time low. It's little wonder Irish shoppers spent ?73m over the internet over Christmas, with a record total of ?260m spent online in 2003, according to one technology research group. An earlier survey last year found Irish-based internet users spent an average of over ?1,000 per online shopper per year. The survey found 41pc of Ireland's internet users bought goods online. But just how much cheaper (if at all) is it to buy goods online? This week 
Your Money went online, and compared the cost of three of the most popular products sold on the World Wide Web to what you pay on the high street. Our research came up with some quite surprising results, smashing many pre-conceptions about the cost of shopping online versus that of shopping around on the high street. CDs Dido - Life for Rent Irish website cdwow.ie was cheapest (and HMV on Grafton Street the most expensive). Michael Jackson - Number Ones Amazon.com was the cheapest, but only when buying in bulk; for a single purchase, cdwow.ie offered the best value. HMV was the dearest. Red Hot Chili Peppers - Greatest Hits The same applied to the LA band's CD. ~ Books John Grisham - King of Torts Hodges Figgis was the cheapest overall. Amazon.com was the most expensive. DBC Pierre - Vernon God Little Amazon.com was the cheapest this time (either for this book alone or as part of a package), while Hodges Figgis was the most expensive. Life of Pi - Yann Martel Eason's and Hodges Figgis were the cheapest; Waterstone's the most expensive. DVDs Terminator 3 This time, amazon.com was the cheapest, even if you bought this DVD on its own, and even when extra delivery charges were factored in, it was still about ?11 cheaper than Tesco - with VAT not payable for this purchase, since it comes just under the ?22 baseline for purchases outside the European Union. Pirates of the Caribbean The same was true for the Johnny Depp swashbuckler. This time, amazon.com was approximately ?7 cheaper than HMV on Grafton Street. Matrix Reloaded Yet again, amazon.com was the cheapest - this time around ?6 cheaper than the most expensive provider, which, again, was HMV. So where's the best value - online or 'offline'? For chart CDs, cdwow.ie was consistently the cheapest overall for a single purchase, while Amazon was marginally cheaper when buying in bulk; for books, Hodges Figgis, amazon.com and Easons gave the best value; and for DVDs, amazon.com was the cheapest. Incidentally, another great and convenient advantage of buying DVDs from the likes of amazon.com is that movies - especially blockbusters and other successful American films - appear on DVD in the US far sooner than they do so in Ireland. However, in relation to Amazon the golden rule of economies of scale applies - the more you buy, the more you save. In other words, when you buy in bulk, amazon.com still very often gives good, and sometimes the best, value overall. But don't take that for granted. In short, it depends on what you buy online, and the quantity you buy. It also pays to look out for sales and special promotions at your local book store, such as Waterstone's current three-for-two offer. 
