online
{ Jennifer McShane 
    December 20 2014 06:27 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/news/exclusive-irish-company-developing-software-aimed-at-tackling-online-abuse-and-cyberbullying-30852627.html }
An Irish company, based in Dublin, are planning to release an innovative new software programme, aimed at helping families and those who are victims of online abuse and cyberbullying.  This new software programme - specifically designed for smartphones - is currently being developed by Irish company, Digital Garden, who are based in Synergy Centre at ITT Dublin.  Patrick Moran, founder of Digital Garden, spoke to exclusively to Independent.ie about this. “Our aim was to develop a smart software platform that detects when online abuse is taking place. When abuse is detected, our system alerts a third party, a parent for example,” he explained. “The whole idea is to expose online abuse and let someone else know that it is happening, so the victim has an opportunity to be supported,” he said.    Mr Moran said a tragic family death led him to want to create the programme, which has been in development for the past 18 months. “My 22-year-old nephew committed suicide as a result of cyberbullying, and I wanted to do something,” he said. “I knew I could donate to a charity, but I wanted to do something more.” He said that the programme, called ‘ParIntel’, was made with parents in mind.  “After months and months of research and development, we decided that we wanted to release something that parents could use, very easily to help their children who might be suffering silently from online abuse, so that’s when we came up with ParIntel,” he continued.  “It’s pronounced the same as “parental” but the idea is that the product name is a combination of the words “parental” and “intelligence,” as this is the essence of the platform – the provision of intelligence (used to track the abuse) to parents about their children’s digital lifestyles.” Mr Moran said that no child’s data would be compromised, should parents use the programme. “We have been working very closely with the Data Protection Commissioner about this,” he said.  “No persons data is ever compromised, the programme simply alerts somebody else to the issue, it doesn’t actually give out details,” he added. He said that the system has been designed, and the company is now moving into the build phase. “We anticipate that we should be able to make it available to the Irish public around mid-2015 and hope that we can do our bit to try and combat online abuse and cyberbullying,” he said.   Online Editors 
