online
{  
    November 30 2009 05:16 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/news/o2-creates-online-business-community-27709366.html }
Telefonica O2 Ireland has launched a new business blog to encourage small and medium sized businesses to talk to each other in new ways. The ‘O2 ideas room’ (www.o2.ie/ideasroom) is a blog geared towards businesses, offering expert advice from other business specialists ranging from marketing and sales to HR and finance. As part of the new blog, O2 has signed the first online deal of its type in Ireland with Independent News & Media (INM) which links the ‘02 ideas room’ to the Irish Independent’s online business news site at www.Independent.ie. Independent.ie attracts monthly impressions of 22.6 million with over 1.7 million unique viewers per month. The Business section delivers 1.5 million impressions and over 330,000 monthly unique users. Commenting, Jonnie Cahill, Head of Communications & Sponsorship, Telefónica O2 Ireland said, “With the “O2 ideas room” we want to create an online community where businesses, large and small, can access free expert information of value to their organisation but also contribute to the blog themselves, either through online discussions or by posting an article.” “The integration of high quality content to our online business news site is the first online collaboration of this type and is an example of how traditional print media can adjust to the new realities of the Internet challenge,” added Eileen Ruddy, Group Online Sales Director, Independent Digital. Research conducted by O2 found that just 6% of SMEs had a business blog. However according to a recent report* (published 5th October 2009) by Deloitte LLP, 94% of enterprises plan to maintain or increase investment in social media tools and online communities, while only 6% plan to decrease investment. Deloitte says that while enterprises are effectively using online tools to engage with customers, partners and employees for brand discussion and idea generation, organisations are continuing to struggle with harnessing Social Media’s full potential. The Deloitte study suggests that top business objectives and benefits of online communities include: increased word-of-mouth, customer loyalty, brand awareness and idea generation. Jonnie Cahill added, “With the O2 blog we want to provide more than just telecommunications advice. We are going one step further to enable businesses to connect with each other and to share comments and ideas on how to be successful. It is also an easy way for SMEs to start to try out Social Media marketing tools. We are looking for business blog contributions and many of our contributors are first time bloggers.” 
