online
{  
    March 05 2014 03:09 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/blog/article30066303.ece }
Do you sleep with your mobile phone under your pillow? Ever find it hard to get through a conversation without posting an update on Facebook?  In a recent Irish survey, over 43 per cent of people said checking social media is the last thing they do every night before they go to sleep, according to digital marketing and social media strategist Aoife Rigney. Over 20 per cent of people surveyed have admitted to checking their phones every ten minutes. Checking e-mail in the bathroom and sleeping with your mobile phone by your bed are now commonplace. The National Day of Unplugging - where people undergo a digital detox for one day - is happening in the US this Friday and Saturday. In January, Ms Rigney realised she was exhausted and she decided to commit to a once-a-week breather from digital and social media - for up to four hours. “Being online constantly can be quite draining on your brain functioning and headspace and on your concentration span.” "I can’t be off for 24 hours every week because of work, so it’s just a breather – an hour or even two hours.” “We’re spending way too much time online – 20 hours is the average and this is the equivalent of a part-time job.” “It’s the anxiety that people feel if their battery is running low. If people are feeling anxious because their phone is dying or they can’t get internet access, they need to realise that these will be there when they come back.” Undertaking a brief digital detox every week, Aoife unwinds by heading for the hills or meeting up with friends. “I take a couple of hours every week; every Sunday I go tech-free. I climb a mountain or take a dog for a walk, or go for a walk with my family. I turn off my phone and I give it to my boyfriend.” “People can fill that space with an alternative thing. They could read that book that’s been gathering dust on their bedside table. They could go for a walk, meet with friends.” “I need to come up for air once a week. The month of January was a good time for me to start.” “For me, I’m working on social media and digital marketing all day every day. I’m coming up with different ideas on how to use digital marketing.” “I try to build on my own reputation online. But I got to a point where it gets exhausting. I got awareness of my own level of activity.” “People are now starting to do it and the feedback is that they come back refreshed and buzzing.” This Friday, Ms Rigney will be unplugged from 12 noon to 6pm on Friday. “It benefits both. Consumers won’t have online fatigue, and neither will digital marketers,” she said. Meanwhile, hateful activity online and negative commenting and cyber bullying is a problem which people need to protect themselves against. And it’s possibly another reason to take a brief digital hiatus once a week, to break away from criticism or negativity online. Ms Rigney has herself been the subject of hateful taunts by online trolls. Trolls invariably have anonymous accounts, very few followers and lurk in the shadows, tweeting only to try to intimidate and get a reaction. “Being online a lot, it does impact you. There’s a feeling of anonymity - that they’re not going to get into trouble,” Ms Rigney said. “These people have the protection of the keyboard or the phone – ‘keyboard warriors’ as they’re called.” “It comes with the territory for me especially, being so active online. The best thing to do with trolls is this idea of not feeding the trolls or fuelling the fire.” “It can be very heartbreaking. But the trolls are doing it to get a reaction.” “The people who are these keyboard warriors or trolls or who are commenting negatively all the time, they feel they’re not going to get caught.” “If they were in a room, they wouldn’t be so quick to speak up. They forget that there is no privacy online.” “I would be conscious of younger people who might get trolled over something that they’ve said online.” “You can report any act on Facebook or Twitter that you feel is inappropriate or abusive or not very nice.” On the other hand, with the benefit of a once-a-week breather, the wonders of digital and social media can be enjoyed, Ms Rigney said. “Social media is amazing. Digital media amazes me on an ongoing basis – with Skype and video calls, viber, and entertaining videos, and the educational side of it is amazing too.” “A lot of businesses were on the brink of closing down but when they embraced digital media marketing, they’re business grew.” Online Editors 
