online
{ Thomas Molloy Deputy Business Editor 
    August 30 2013 04:02 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/irish-independent-still-miles-ahead-of-rivals-in-readership-29538333.html }
THE latest figures on newspaper readership highlight two undeniable facts: massive numbers of people still read newspapers, and the most popular daily newspaper in the country is the Irish Independent by a country mile. The latest Joint National Readership Survey shows that four-out-of-five adults read a newspaper either in paper format or online. Together, our print and online readers average 649,000 adults a day. That includes 570,000 paper readers and 119,000 digital readers. This is the first time the survey has given this level of detail to help advertisers decide where to spend their money. While it is hardly a surprise that this newspaper's print readership continues to exceed all rivals, what is not always appreciated is how well the independent.ie website is doing. Our main site now has 119,000 readers compared to 106,000 readers at the 'Irish Times' and 20,000 at the 'Irish Examiner'. Another change has been the newspaper resurgence in Dublin, which ensures that the Irish Independent is now the capital's leading title with 10,000 more print and online readers than the nearest rival. The title's strength in the rest of Leinster is even more apparent. With 204,000 print and online readers, we have twice as many readers as the next most popular paper. While the survey highlights the Irish Independent's leading role in Irish life, it also shows that newspapers in general remain an important source of news with 80pc of the adult population regularly reading newspapers in print form. Around 450,000 people, or 13pc of adults, read newspapers online, which means that 84pc of the population read newspapers, either in print or online. The majority of adults in Ireland (62pc)  read a daily newspaper and the figure for readership of Sunday newspapers is almost as high at 60pc. More than half of online daily readers also read a printed newspaper. ABC1s are three times more likely to read online than manual workers. Where a person lives is another important factor, with urbanites being more likely to read online than their rural counterparts. Almost one-in-five Dubliners read newspapers online, while just one-tenth of those living outside the capital do so. Age also plays an important role, with those under 45 years of age almost twice as likely to read newspapers online as those over 45 years of age. Irish Independent 
