online
{ Carol Hunt 
    July 28 2013 03:08 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/carol-hunt-we-need-to-talk-about-bad-sex-to-our-children-29453973.html }
CINDY Gallop, British entrepreneur and founder of web (and TED Talk) sensation 'Make Love Not Porn', says we have to accept that children as young as eight are viewing pornography online. One report revealed an ordinary young girl whose first experience of what "sex consisted of" was watching a gang rape online in a friend's house. She was eight years old. As a mother of a nine-year-old boy and a 12-year-old girl, I, of course, don't want to accept that this is true. My babies looking at pornography? You've got to be joking! Why on earth would children be interested in looking at sex? And anyway, don't I check their mobile devices and internet access? I have rules about smart phones and tablets and internet history. I have checks and blocks and do all the stuff that a responsible parent in the age of Google is supposed to do. But, as far as my kids are concerned I'm still a technological Luddite. They were born to this stuff, whereas I – and so many parents like me – are only catching up. I have no idea what they are looking at in their friends' homes. I don't know what they see on a mate's smart phone as they walk home from school. But I know that, in the very dangerous world of internet porn, of online child abuse, I need to arm them with every weapon I can. So, what can we do to protect our children? And how do we teach them to distinguish between free speech, criminal activity and adult stuff we'd just rather that they didn't see? In the UK, David Cameron has said that his government plans to "drain the market" of child sexual abuse images online. He is initiating a campaign with the police and internet companies to pursue both those who publish and access the material. Cameron said that from the end of 2013, all new computers sold will have filters switched on by default, so that people will have to "opt in" to access pornography. (If they don't know how to do that, no doubt their kids can explain it to them.) However, Cameron has admitted that he's having a problem with internet providers who are objecting to plans to filter content which he says is "illegal" whereas they see it as "free speech". Here at home, the Irish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children has urged the Government to consider forcing internet service providers (ISPs) to block access by young people to online pornography. However, Communications Minister Pat Rabbitte has said he remains to "be convinced that blanket censorship or a 'default on' or blocker is the correct or workable response". And meanwhile, in the Seanad, Mary Ann O'Brien got short shrift when it was revealed that a (rather good) speech she made urging the Government to examine proposals to block online pornography was largely taken from a feature by an English journalist about Generation XXX (the senator says she had intended, but forgot, to credit the author). "I never thought I would stand up in the Irish Seanad and feel nostalgic for Hustler, Penthouse or Playboy," said the senator, "but we must now admit that we must think of them as part of the good old days". Of course, as Minister Rabbitte rightly pointed out, there is a world of difference between "images of child abuse and other illegal material and what might be described as 'lawful' adult content featuring consenting adults". But the problem is that the average eight or 12 year old can't tell the difference between them. Nor do they realise that what they see online is not how sex in the real world – one hopes – actually works. As a parent of young children I'm in favour of any blocks or 'defaults' that mean my child cannot unintentionally access pornography. Of course, I know that many tech-savvy teens will bypass whatever controls are introduced but hopefully, the under-10s won't. And children need to know the effects that looking at "bad" porn can have. In May, the Children's Commissioner for England published a report on the effect of pornography on young people, reviewing 40,000 pieces of research, and found a correlation between violent pornography and those who commit violent crimes. But ultimately, we, as parents need to talk to our children about sex. Not just the mechanics but about the business that is pornography. As Gallop says: "The conversation today needs to go: 'Darling, we know you're online and we know you're looking at hardcore porn and we just need to explain to you that not all women like to be ... and not all men like ... '" Recently my young son made comments that led me to suspect he had seen online sex; pornography. He was upset. He said it was "weird stuff". He didn't want to go into detail but he wanted an explanation. Is this really what adults did to each other? And so I had to explain to him the (very) basics of pornography. And that what he or his friends may see online was not "real" sex but business sex. I then also had to explain about paedophiles and predators, 'bad people who do bad sex things' and the importance of not engaging in conversation with anyone on social media, no matter who they say they are. I've had to explain the difference between consensual sexual pornography and the really nasty kind, and of course I've told him that anything which involves children is terribly, criminally, dangerously wrong and has to be reported to an adult immediately. I've done pretty much the same with my daughter and believe me, it's depressing and very sad, but it has to be done. What surprises me is the number of parents who somehow don't think their children are at risk – who haven't given a thought to what their little innocents can download in an instant in the privacy of their bedrooms. Who, when I bring up the subject, look at me as if I am deliberately corrupting the little one's innocence, or if not the child's peace of mind, then certainly the parents. It's a tough one, but at least we've started the conversation. And yes, it's mortifying, both for child and parent. But it has to be done. No excuses. We need to talk about porn. Sunday Independent 
