online
{ Emma Kennedy 
    February 28 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/service-firms-falling-behind-on-online-sales-26278100.html }
FIGURES released by the Central Statistics Office yesterday show that while a growing number of Irish companies have an online presence, this is not necessarily translating into a significant increase in online turnover. The CSO published the results of its 2004 Annual Services Inquiry yesterday and the survey revealed that only 18pc of companies operating in the service sector had a website at the end of 2004. According to a spokesperson for the CSO, the survey included companies operating in the retail sector, the wholesale sector, real estate, business services and selected other services enterprises. A random sample of the 85,284 companies within the service sector showed that 14,925 had a website in 2004. However, only 9,201 companies reported any online turnover. Turnover resulting from orders submitted online was about ?13.5bn in 2004, which is just over 9pc of total turnover in the service sector that year. A survey of Ireland's usage of the internet conducted by the CSO last year indicated that industrial businesses had adopted the internet earlier than businesses within the service sector. In 2004, just over 82pc of all industrial enterprises had email, compared with just 39pc of companies in the services sector. Last year's survey found that 64pc of all Irish business had their own website by 2006, compared with 60pc in 2005. The service sector still lags slightly behind the manufacturing sector in terms of online presence. Some 66pc of manufacturing companies had a website last year, compared with 64pc of companies in the service sector. Only 47pc of construction companies had a website at the time of the survey. Online activity accounted for only 17pc of total sales across all sectors of the economy last year, down marginally on online activity a year earlier. In 2005, twenty per cent of sales came via online channels. Fergal O'Byrne, chief executive of the Irish Internet Association, said that "not all companies are compatible with ecommerce". He said that certain types of business use the internet more as a marketing channel than a direct sales mechanism. He gave the example of a consultant offering financial advice. "Someone like this is unlikely to sell their wares online," said O'Byrne. The figures released yesterday also showed a lower level of ecommerce activity in rural areas when compared with urban areas, although the Irish Internet Association say that the lack of broadband availability is to blame for the lower levels of ecommerce in rural areas. 
