online
{ Ryan Nugent 
    December 26 2016 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/4m-spent-online-in-sales-blitz-just-40pc-of-it-here-35320368.html }
Sales shoppers have splashed out a whopping €4m online on Christmas Day - but just over €1.5m of that will go to Irish retailers. The Christmas splurge is beginning earlier each year as excited consumers can't even wait one day to snap up new electronic devices. Tablets and iPads are more popular than ever, according to Retail Excellence Ireland (REI) - and so too is Christmas Day sales shopping from the comfort of your sofa. However, with Irish retailers slow at offering their goods online, customers are regularly dragged to UK and European websites to buy at knockdown prices. The REI's Lynn Drumgoole told the Irish Independent that it's up to Irish businesses to get on board and take advantage of the phenomenon before they get left behind. Fraction She said that 60pc of Irish online custom goes abroad - meaning Irish retailers only took in €1.6m on Christmas Day, a fraction of the €4m pot. "That's an ongoing issue - it's not just for Black Friday. "About 60pc of online purchases from Ireland go outside of the country, not necessarily directly to the UK but a considerable percentage of that would go to the UK," Ms Drumgoole said. "It's hugely important that Irish retailers are supported to go online, not necessarily just to take advantage of selling to our own Irish consumers, but also to attract business from abroad." The consumer expert said as much as €20m is being spent everyday online in Ireland on a regular day. "It's a phenomenal amount of money being spent full-stop and it equates to about €7.4bn in the year that Irish people are spending online," Ms Drumgoole said. "In Ireland, retailers starting their sales online is a new enough phenomenon so it's kind of like Black Friday 2015 - they were kind of doing it. And this year they're definitely doing it." This year is seen as the first year where big retailers are going big with advertising for Christmas Day sales, with the REI saying it expects the trend to snowball over the coming years. Irish Independent 
