online
{  
    January 09 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/applying-for-that-course-26403030.html }
The online application process presents page by page, so an applicant must fill up each page before the next page appears onscreen. Basically, the online procedure consists of six steps, (1) payment, (2), completing the application, (3) correct any errors or omissions, (4) details of non-standard applicants, (5) confirm application details and finally (6) print or save your rec Mary O'Donnell The online application process presents page by page, so an applicant must fill up each page before the next page appears onscreen. Basically, the online procedure consists of six steps, (1) payment, (2), completing the application, (3) correct any errors or omissions, (4) details of non-standard applicants, (5) confirm application details and finally (6) print or save your receipt. The information is sought in more or less the same sequence online as by paper application, so the page references that follow apply to paper application form page numbers. PAGE ONE: is virtually self-explanatory. Factual information is sought. YOUR NAME: Surname and first names: When CAO searches for your exam results next August, it does so by matching your name and date of birth from your application form with your name and date of birth from your school records. CAO warns that applicants may face complications in the future if the name on their birth certificate is different from the name on their application. There is also the option of listing the title by which you prefer to be addressed, Ms or Mr, etc. You should also mark either F for female or M for male in the box provided. DATE OF BIRTH: Remember to enter the year of your birth and not the current year, as applicants sometimes do. Such an error will be detected in an online application. YOUR ADDRESS: The form allows space for your permanent home address, and an address for correspondence, if that is different from your home address. The address for correspondence is normally your home address - but the important thing is that it is where you (or somebody you have asked to act on your behalf, such as your parent/s) will be when CAO sends you correspondence, particularly your statement of application record in May, and hopefully, your offer notices in the summer. COUNTRY OF BIRTH: This can be of significance particularly if an applicant is seeking exemption from Irish as an entry requirement to an NUI (National University of Ireland) university on the grounds that they were born abroad, or if an applicant born outside of Ireland wants to demonstrate that he or she is likely to be an EU applicant. NATIONALITY: Applicants are required to state their nationality. MOBILE PHONE NUMBER AND EMAIL ADDRESS: Applicants are also invited to list their mobile phone number, if it is different from their contact phone number already provided, and an email address, if they have one. DISABILITY/SPECIFIC LEARNING DIFFICULTY Higher education institutions are anxious to make appropriate provision for any applicants who have difficulties with a medical or physical condition, or a specific learning disability. If an applicant has a difficulty which he or she believes should be brought to the attention of a HEI, they should tick the appropriate box provided. Applicants are not obliged to disclose such details, but CAO encourages them to provide this information. CAO emphasises that the information will not adversely affect an application in any way. SCHOOL DETAILS: School leaving pupils are entered by their schools as Leaving Certificate examination candidates with the Department of Education and Science. Hence your exam results come to you via your school, and CAO will also check through all school lists when checking for each applicant's results. CAO asks all applicants to list the names and addresses of the second-level school/s they have attended, and the years in which they attended them, starting with the latest school attended, if there was more than one. This will help CAO to identify exam records, including those from a previous school in the case of an applicant who sat the Leaving Certificate more than once, or it may help HEIs to determine EU status in the case of some overseas students. (E10 applicants, that is, candidates who are not sitting their Leaving Certificate through a recognised second-level school, should also enter the secondary school they attended originally, as it may be important to check for any previous Leaving Certificate results.) SIGNATURE: At the end of page one of the paper application, the following statement appears in red print: "I have read the regulations described in the CAO Handbook 2006 and in the CAO Application Form 2006 and I agree to be bound to them. I affirm that the particulars given in this application form are true and complete.,Remember, many of the simple errors that applicants make arise because they did not properly read the handbook. Follow this instruction carefully before signing. Finish this page by signing your name and giving the date. PAGE TWO: Page Two of the paper application form requires information under three headings, 1,2 and 3. Part 1 seeks REPUBLIC OF IRELAND EXAMINATION DETAILS: Unless you tell CAO what school-leaving exams you are taking, it will not know what records to search for. If you are sitting the Leaving Certificate for the first time in the year 2006, all you have to do is tick the box marked Leaving Cert. 06. Next May when CAO sends you your application record, you should check that the Leaving Certificate number on it is the one that you have been assigned by the Department of Education and Science. The CAO form seeks details of FETAC level 5/6 (formerly NCVA level 2/3) exam numbers from those applicants who are taking those exams, and a box is provided for that purpose. As with the Leaving Certificate applicants, you just tick the box at the time of applying, since you may not have your exam number at the present time. Previous exam records: If you sat the Leaving Certificate in a previous year (between 1985 and 2005), do not fail to give your exam number for the year in question. Every year, a small number of applicants fail to inform CAO that they have already sat the Leaving Certificate. CAO will not therefore search for their results and the applicant will get no credit for them. This could be particularly important if you are repeating the Leaving Certificate this year, and are not repeating a subject that you already passed, for example, English, which is an essential entry requirement for nearly every college course. Previous FETAC exam records, if any, should also be provided. COURSE CHOICES: The listing of your course choices is the heart of the application form. This section provides two lists, one entitled Level 8 (for honours degree courses) and the other entitled Level 7/6 (for ordinary degree or higher certificate courses). You are invited to list your courses in order of genuine preference in each list. ONE GOLDEN RULE: DO NOT MIX LISTS: The two lists, Level 8 list and Level 7/6 list, operate independently of one and other, and you will be offered the highest preference course you are entitled to, if any, from each list. It is clearly indicated in the handbook whether a course is a Level 8 (honours degree) course or a Level 7/6 (ordinary degree or higher certificate) course. It is not possible to enter a course code in the wrong list using the online facility. CHANGING YOUR MIND: Although the normal closing date for CAO is February 1, with a late closing date of May 1, you may change your mind about the courses you have listed, or the order in which you have listed them, almost without restriction, up to July 1 next. RESTRICTIONS: Restricted application courses are those for which there are early assessment procedures usually around March or April. An example would be an Art and Design course, which requires a portfolio, or a music degree course, for which applicants would sit a music test. All mature applicants to nursing courses are also restricted, because an interview normally forms part of the selection procedure. Restricted courses are designated as such in the handbook. See page three of the handbook for further details of restricted categories of applicant and of courses. An application for a restricted application course cannot be considered unless it has been included among an applicant's original courses choices to arrive in CAO by February 1, or it has been added to an existing application not later than the final date for correction of errors and omissions which will be shown on the Statement of Course Choices, and is sent to each applicant normally be in the first few days of March. A restricted-application course may not be introduced in a change-of-mind slip, or a late application, because the early assessment procedures are likely to have taken place at that stage. Listing your choices in order of genuine preference requires careful research. You should not list any course that you have not researched as well as you can. (Applicants are not required to apply for courses on both lists, but simply on the lists that interest them.) Remember that you will be offered the highest preference course to which your results entitle you (from both of the lists). Once you have been made an offer, you will never be offered any course that is lower in your order of preference on that list than the course you have already been offered. But you will remain on the waiting list for any course that is higher in your order of preference than the one you have been offered, and you will be offered a place on it if places become available and you are the next eligible applicant on the waiting list. Do not make your course choices on the basis of points, but in order of their attraction to you. Points are not set in advance, and each year's cut-off points only reflect the level of competition that obtained for a particular course that year. There is no guarantee that the points will be the same the next year. Undoubtedly levels of competition remain very keen for courses where there are only a small number of places. But since you have ten choices on each list, there is plenty of room to spread your options. Every course choice should be carefully considered. Candidates often fail to meet the points requirements for many of their choices and can easily be offered their ninth or tenth choice, to which they may have given very little consideration when they were applying, and now they may not want to accept it. There is no point in wasting a course choice in this way. DEFERRED APPLICATIONS: Both online and paper application procedures indicate a box which you are required to tick if you are an applicant who deferred a place from last year. SPECIAL CATEGORY: PART B: pages three and four To be completed by special category applicants only. The majority of CAO applicants are standard applicants, that is Irish school leavers taking the Leaving Certificate examination, and will not need to complete pages three and four, or to continue to that stage with their application online. If applicants are applying for a college place on the basis of categories in addition to, or other than, Leaving Certificate results; they will use pages three and four of the application form. These pages are designed to elicit further information about the qualifications of such applicants, and they are warned that failure to complete these pages properly and to supply whatever attachments are necessary could hinder their application. Applicants must provide their name and date of birth in the space provided at the top of page three. Several of the special categories relate to school-leaving exam results other than the Leaving Certificate, for example, GCE/GCSE results (category A), other school leaving exams (category B), or FETAC (formerly NCVA Level 2/3) awards from 1999 or earlier (category C). The other special categories relate to: further education other than FETAC (NCVA level 2/3 ) (category D), details of higher education experience in universities or institutes of technology (category E), or mature applications (category F). Applicants are reminded in the handbook and again on page three of the form that failure to disclose appropriate information about previous higher education experience may result in a cancellation of their application. The significance of this information relates to the free tuition fees scheme. Students who have already enjoyed free tuition fees for part (or all) of a third-level course must expect to have to pay for part (or all) of their second course. There is no point in trying to conceal previous third-level attendance. Two further boxes on page three relate to GCE/GCSE exam results. Applicants are advised that they should attach copies of appropriate certificates for GCE/GCSE exams already taken. The second box allows them to enter details of GCE/GCSE exams they have yet to take. SIGNIFICANCE OF SPECIAL CATEGORIES: The existence of a special category does not mean that all colleges to which you are applying will treat such categories equally. The institutes of technology operate points schemes for Further Education FETAC results, for example, whereas most universities operate pilot schemes, whereby they considers applicants with a relevant FETAC award for some honours degree programmes. Further Education FETAC awards might also help the application of a mature candidate to a university. Pages nine and ten of the handbook outline clearly the procedures which applicants using pages three and four must follow. This involves sending pages three and four of the application form, as well as accompanying certified documentation to CAO. Online applicants who are required to complete the equivalent of part B, pages three and four of the application form, should follow the instructions that will appear on the screen about the submission of any additional documentation (see page nine of the handbook). Applicants submitting pages three and four may give a short CV on page four of the application form, covering their education, work experience, achievements, interest and motivation. This is an opportunity for applicants to sell themselves to the college/s to which they are applying, so it should be used as effectively as possible. Applicants conclude page four of the application form with their signature and the date on which they are making the application. Online applicants are presented with a final opportunity to check the information they have given, and to amend it if necessary. They are then advised to print or save the page as a receipt. 
