online
{ BILLY RYLE 
    January 21 2010 11:40 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/lifestyle/apply-online-for-your-2010-cao-courses-27074650.html }
THE CAO application process has moved very smoothly from the old paper application to an online application. Almost all applications from school leavers will be made via "Apply" this year. In 2009, 90 per cent of all applications were submitted online. The 10 per cent who applied on the traditional paper form were mainly mature students, who are required to provide a considerable amount of documentation in support of their application. The CAO has continued to refine its online application form on its web site at www.cao.ie and is actively encouraging applicants to submit an online application. Online application is now the established method of application, as computer literate young people prefer the electronic communication. If you are considering an online application, then 5.15pm on February 1 next is the closing time and date for doing so. On a single online application, you may choose from the entire range of courses mentioned in the CAO Handbook 2010. All of the courses on the online application are categorised as 'Level 8' or 'Level 7/Level 6'. Up to 10 courses may be chosen in each category - listed in order of preference in each case. The online application form is far more convenient and secure than the paper equivalent where the possibility of error is much greater. The fee for the online application is €35, if you apply by January 20 and €45 if you apply by the standard closing date of February 1. The fee can be paid directly into the Bank using the Application Fee Payment Form or online using a credit/debit card. If you are using the application fee payment form pay the €35 or €45 application fee through a Bank, which will retain part three of the payment form and return parts one and two to you. When you access the CAO online application form, 'apply' on your computer you are required to enter your personal details. If you have paid your fee through a Bank, you must enter, in the appropriate box, the unique sequence number from your application fee payment form as confirmation of payment of the fee. Alternatively, while you are applying online, you may make payment by credit card (Visa or MasterCard) or by debit card (Laser). If you are paying by credit or debit card, you will be asked to enter your credit/debit card details. The instructions for completing the form are very clear and easy to follow. You supply the personal details required as they appear on screen. Then you proceed to the qualifications and assessment summary, where you tick the section that is relevant to you. In the vast majority of cases, this will be section one, the Irish Leaving Certificate Examination. Once you register your payment option by either of the methods mentioned above, you confirm your acceptance of the terms and conditions that apply to your application. Next you declare, by ticking the box, that all particulars on the form are true and correct. As an added security feature, applicants are given the option to password protect their CAO application by entering a password of choice. It is advisable to avail of this facility as an extra safety measure but remember to keep your password in a safe place. Click on "Proceed with Application", which allows you advance to the next step. At this point in your application, you should take note of your CAO application number. From this point forward, you will need your application number and your password, if you have supplied one, to log on to your online CAO application. Continue now to complete the personal details section. Then you proceed to course choices. They are 'Level 8' or 'Level 7 & Level 6' course choices. You should now type in your course choices onto one or both of the lists, which you wish to apply for. If you wish to be considered under the new DARE (Disability Access Route to Education) or the new HEAR (Higher Education Access Route) tick the appropriate box and you will be guided to further instructions about completing the DARE or HEAR section. Once you have completed the CAO form it's a good idea to print or save screen receipt of your online application. If you supply an e-mail address, an initial acknowledgement will be sent to you by e-mail. You may also confirm receipt of your application by logging on to the CAO website, www.cao.ie and using the "My Application" option. As the CAO online application is now interactive, you may continue to work on your application until 1st February 2010. After May 3, you may, if you wish, register a change of course choices online at www.cao.ie. If you have supplied an email address, an acknowledgement of any change of courses will be sent to that email address. Check that your courses have been updated by using the "My Application" facility before 1st July 2010. The online application is now the standard method of application for all students. It has eliminated a fair amount of cumbersome paperwork. It's user friendly and easy to follow, particularly as CAO provides an 'Interactive Demo' to enable you make a trial application. It's a secure and safe way of applying for your courses and it allows you to submit your application from the privacy of your own home. The improvements and modifications, which the CAO has made to the online application have made it an extremely accessible and safe way to apply for college. 
