online
{  
    September 02 2018 05:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/store-wars-the-high-street-strikes-back-against-the-cyberspace-threat-37273601.html }
This time last year, Mayo businessman and footballer Donal Vaughan was gearing up for one of the fights of his life - his county's bid to bring home Sam Maguire for the first time since 1951. Dublin were victorious on the day but Vaughan is now involved in a different sort of battle, which is to find the right balance between online and High Street for his footwear business, Vaughan Shoes, which he runs with his twin sister, Ailish. They have three shoe stores, in Castlebar, Claremorris and Ballinrobe, as well as an online shop but as disruptors such as Amazon make the online shopping experience so easy for customers, Vaughan admits the retail scene can be challenging. "Creating a brilliant customer experience for the new time-poor consumer is extremely important," he said.  
Close
 Nothing beats the original authentic experience,’ Louis Copeland Jr says of in-store shopping versus onlineweek, / "Consumer expectations are higher than ever and they have never had as much choice. But excellent customer service will make you stand out." The pressure on the retail industry is well documented and earlier last week online payments firm PayPal released the results of a survey that showed the growing lure of online for Irish shoppers, mostly through international websites. Cheaper goods, more choice and affordable shipping rates were the reasons given for Irish shoppers choosing international websites rather than local ones. We spent €2.7bn at foreign-owned sites last year with Irish online shoppers more prone to this shopping experience than those from other countries surveyed.  The survey was conducted among 1,000 Irish people by Ipsos for PayPal and it showed that 84pc of us are buying overseas. The study showed that in 2017, about 2.2 million consumers made at least one purchase from an overseas online retailer in 2017, compared with 2.1 million who bought from an Irish-owned website. Consumers questioned said they were put off by more expensive delivery fees and returns policies of Irish-based sites. And although Vaughan Shoes is based in the west of Ireland, most of its customers come from our two biggest cities. "Dublin and Cork are our two biggest customer bases on our online store," Donal Vaughan said. He added that competition is strong but marrying the online and in-store experience for shoppers is key. But the trend also highlights an opportunity for Irish online retailers in an already disrupted industry where traditional High Street retailers have been damaged badly by the convenience of internet shopping.  "We try to match online delivery prices as much as possible but it's important to point out for comparison purposes that many Irish retail businesses have yet to open an online store," said Louis Copeland Jr, who works alongside his father in their family-owned menswear business, where just over 50 people are employed in their stores and online. "We offer free delivery for purchases over €95 in Ireland. Then about 30pc of our online business is from the UK while we have customers in other European countries as well as the US and Canada." According to Vaughan, the business environment could be made easier for Irish retailers competing against international ones in the online market. "Retail Excellence Ireland has lobbied the Government to help SMEs get online and get back some of the market share we are losing to multinational retailers based outside of Ireland," he said.  He added that €800,000 an hour is being spent online in Ireland but two-thirds of this is being spent on online stores based outside of Ireland.  "The Exchequer is losing out on a significant amount of VAT, and for an Irish online retailer our 23pc VAT rate is one of the highest in Europe so we are already at a disadvantage without even looking at currency fluctuations," Vaughan said. However, the convenience of online shopping as a growing trend in Ireland cannot be ignored and the way to survive is to adapt with both businessmen agreeing that there are ways to marry online and store experiences to the benefit of the shopper. "A customer will start their sales journey on our online store, research it, screen shot the styles they like, come in-store, try on the product in one of our shops and make a purchase. When you say High Street versus online I think the two can be linked.  "Customers are shopping at a time that suits them. Never before have consumers been so time poor. You need to be able to present your products to the customer at the right time and place.  "That right time and place may be 10pm at night at home on the couch when the kids are gone to bed or at 7am on a Monday morning when you've just landed into work, you've a busy week ahead and you want to start the week off by treating yourself to a pair of shoes!" Copeland agrees with this too. "Most customers browse online and have researched the product they're interested in before they come to the store, so having a website that shows your full collection is essential," said Copeland, adding that about 5pc of turnover comes from online. "We tend to find that for larger purchases like suits and sports jackets, customer typically prefer the in-store experience, as this allows them to try on the clothing, receive advice and guidance from our excellent team, and if any alterations are needed, these can be done by one of our tailors, sometimes while the customer waits." Vaughan, who employs 15 in the business which he runs with his sister, said it's hard to completely differentiate between shops and online as consumers' first touch point can be online and the last touch point can be in-store. This means that the last touch point will get the attribution/credit even though multiple touch points were involved in the sale. There were also adaptations on the High Street side to suit the changing experience the customer is seeking.  "We made our stores destination stores by offering personalised experience for customers. We were one of the first shoe stores in the west to start offering bio-mechanical foot assessment and specialised footwear recommendations based on your arch type or your gait. I was using my knowledge from football to help my business create a unique experience for our customers," he said. At Dublin's Louis Copeland & Sons too, part of the business is making the experience for the bricks-and-mortar shopper as special as possible. "When customers visit our store it allows us to offer services which we cannot offer in the same way online, like personal suggestions for the customer's needs, and complimentary alterations. People like dealing with people.  "I suppose it's similar to the recent decrease of e-book sales; people enjoy the convenience, but at the end of the day, nothing beats the original authentic experience," said Copeland. Still, the shopping streets are blighted with boarded-up stores, even though it is not just an Irish phenomenon. In Britain, there has been a slew of closures and rationalisations. Just last week, Homebase, the DIY chain, won approval from creditors to close 42 shops which resulted in it averting a crisis that could have led to collapse.  And there are challenges ahead, Louis Copeland said. There are five Copeland stores and one Gant shop. "Online retailing is a big challenge for traditional retailing, but as they say, if you can't beat them, join them," he said. In its pre-budget submission, Retail Excellence Ireland highlighted the challenges facing the industry, including what it called "cheap imports". "Here in Ireland, we have some of the most innovative and passionate retailers in the world but challenges such as insurance, general business costs, talent acquisition and retention, housing availability and affordability, non-tax compliant cheap imports and the extraordinary growth in online spend are hampering the viability and competitiveness of the Irish retail sector," said Lorraine Higgins, chief executive of the organisation. "From our research, the overwhelming picture being consistently painted since mid-2017 is that a degree of vulnerability continues to exist. While figures might be marginally up, this has occurred at the expense of intensive marketing campaigns undertaken by retailers and consequentially reduced margins. "Retail provides employment to 282,000 people in every village, town and city in the country, which is the same as the combined number employed in IT, agriculture, forestry, fishing and financial services. It contributes €7bn annually to the Exchequer and yet successive budgets fail to offer retail-focused solutions," she added. But quality and service are the way forward, said Vaughan who admitted hat his profile as a Mayo footballer helps from a marketing point of view. "But it will only bring you so far. The key to retail is repeat customers and you only get them back by offering them a quality product and excellent service." So back to today's big game in Croke Park, which he will watch at home with his girlfriend, Mairead. He is calling a win for Dublin but he remains optimistic about the future of his business and Mayo football.  "The only way I will make myself available next year is the belief that we can win the All Ireland - and we can - but it is obviously up to the new manager as to whether I will be involved."  Sunday Indo Business 
