online
{  
    January 11 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/the-sunset-industry-26279677.html }
...but Irish travel agents are determined to fly in the face of adversity THE odds seem stacked against Ireland's traditional holiday sellers. Low-cost airlines have invaded their skies, delivering punters to holiday hotspots for small change. Soaring rates of holiday home ownership have driven scores of families out of the traditional package holiday market. And the unstoppable rise of the internet has empowered people to put together their own 'packages', obliterating the role of the middleman. Clearly, the omens ain't looking good. Yet Simon Nugent, chief executive of the Irish Travel Agents Association (ITAA), is in a remarkably upbeat mood. "Travel out of Ireland is growing dramatically," he says. "There is a lot of action to go around. My members were busier than ever last year." Stats from the Central Statistics Office (CS0) back up Nugent's claim on our record numbers of international trips - between 2001 and 2005, trips abroad rose by 50pc. That 50pc, however, has not all translated into more business for traditional holiday sellers - low-cost airlines, online outfits and holiday home visitors are all taking their slice as well. Ryanair has staged a particularly formidable assault on the holiday market, with 22 new routes from Dublin to the sun coming on stream this summer alone. When sun lovers can now reach Malta and the Canary Islands at Ryanair prices, why would they pay for a package holiday? The sellers of package holidays profess to be undeterred by Ryanair's advances. "People seem to be fixated on low-cost carriers flying to the sun and the impact that has on tour operators in particular," says Niall McDonnell, chief executive of tour operator Panorama. "The truth is, that over the last year or so the impact of low-cost carriers has lessened somewhat. "People are now beginning to realise that it's not all it's cracked up to be - they realise that by the time you pay all the extras for the flight and organise your own accommodation, in most cases it was actually cheaper to go with the agents." The surge in the numbers buying holiday homes also casts a shadow over Ireland's travel agents and tour operators as those who own villas in their favourite sunspot leave the package holiday market. Some traditional players, however, are finding ways to turn this to their advantage by offering "flight-only packages", which fly holiday home owners to their villas on charter flights. They've also found another upside - at least five per cent of Ireland's travel agents are now also operating as "promoters" for holiday home sales, Nugent said. "They know where their customers like going and they're working with property developers to show them what's available there and help them to find properties," says Nugent. "It's not a core business for travel agents but it's certainly an emerging trend." Tour operator Budget Travel has just began a partnership with overseas property firm Parador Properties. "Travel agents have been doing the same thing for years," says Clem Walshe, marketing manager at Budget. "Commissions are being starved, if travel agents don't start diversifying the future is bleak." McDonnell, however, was less enthralled by the prospect of marketing overseas property. "We're not in the business of getting associated with people selling properties overseas," he says. "There's probably far too many people in the business of selling property in Ireland as it is." The explosion of the internet is perhaps the biggest threat to traditional tour operators and travel agents alike. The early internet was a firm ally of both groups, allowing the development of new systems to help agents find flights and beds. The latter day internet has served the sector less well - ordinary punters have now joined the information superhighway and can hunt down their own bargains online. Their quest is facilitated by specialist websites such as ebookers which serve as one-stop shops for flights, accommodation and car hire, and which are steadily luring the customers away from traditional travel agents. "The online travel market in Ireland has been growing at about 20pc per year, while the regular travel agent has been at best flat on a year-on-year basis," says Ciaran Lally, ebookers' managing director in Ireland and the UK. "Back in 2000, when people were booking travel online in most cases they were just booking flights. "People have now grasped the confidence of booking air online and they are now starting to branch out into other products, car hire, hotels and travel insurance in particular - last year, we had a 400pc increase in hotel bookings." Tour operators and travel agents have fought back by setting up their own websites. But Lally says that selling successfully online can be challenging, particularly for smaller operators. "It's very easy to get an online travel site off the ground and running, but it's incredibly difficult to do it well," he said. "As the web develops, the power is shifting towards the consumer, they're getting more educated on how they book and research travel online. So you've got to build increasingly complex functionality into your website, like getting reviews into your hotel product online. "If you're a smaller player on a limited budget, how do you build that deeper content and that increasingly complex functionality?" Larger firms can afford to splash out on top-of-the-range websites, which they are using to aggressively drive online business. For years, Budget's New Year sale has been marked by iconic front-of-shop queuing, with people queuing for days to clinch the top bargains. This year, Budget abandoned its traditional queue, opting for an online version instead. Budget says it moved the crowds online because it was more humane than the old method. But the ploy also brought 28,000 punters to Budget's website - which was handy given that Budget is hoping to do 33pc of its business online this year, up from 25pc in 2006. Ebookers, now an exclusively online operation, had 25 staff employed in a Dublin store last year. That store was closed in the summer, as online business climbed to 85pc of the company's total turnover. Could Budget be headed for a similar future if the growth of online revenue continues? "Down the line if web sales continue to increase we'll have to review the way we do our business," says Walshe. Budget now has 32 company-owned stores as well as 14 franchises. Walshe said the franchises would be "looked at" first, but he stressed that nothing would happen in the next 18 to 24 months. "The question is where is the ceiling," he says. "Will online sales level off at 33pc or is there more room?" Nugent admits online sites selling package holidays can compete robustly with DIY holiday websites. "The core decision for consumers is going to be do you want to book your package holiday where everything is pretty much provided and designed for you, or do you want to keep your options more flexible," said Lally. "It's all about flexibility versus security." There are other positives on the horizon, too. Travel agents and tour operators are the only ones to bring the protection of bonding to the table, making them a firm favourite with many families. The bonding involves lodging substantial sums with the Commission for Aviation Regulation (CAR), which means that if the company goes bust you won't be stranded abroad. While package holiday growth has stagnated, travel agents have fought back by offering tailored packages to far-flung destinations. Many people would be happy to go it alone to Spain, but those venturing outside their comfort zone to Africa, Asia and the Middle East tend to be more keen on the advice and back-up offered by travel agents and tour operators. This year's SSIA boom is likely to play well for these kinds of packages, as people splurge their cash on the holiday of a lifetime. Tailored packages, the security of bonding, flight-only offers, holiday home tie-ins and aggressive online strategies all amount to a considerable fight back from traditional holiday sellers who are battling wilfully against extinction. Whether it will be enough to fend off the daemons of low-cost carriers, increasing holiday home ownership and online DIY booking remains to be seen.  Laura Noonan  International trips up 11pc compared to 1pc for domestic DESPITE prominent ads calling on the Irish to holiday locally, international trips are where the real growth is, according to stats from the CSO. In the second quarter of 2006, for example, domestic trips were up just 1pc, while international trips were up 11pc. Internationally, people's destinations have remained virtually unchanged over the last five years. In 2001, almost 82pc of trips were to EU countries; by 2005, just over 82pc of trips were to EU countries. In 2001, just 8.6pc of Irish travellers were destined for Central and South America. By 2005, that percentage had risen marginally, to 9.2pc. The percentage of trips to Africa, Asia, Australia and North America also remained virtually unchanged. Visiting friends and family has seen the biggest growth in the last five years, with a 58pc jump since 2001. International holidays aren't far behind, with a 53pc rise. Business trips, however, have grown by just 23pc in the last five years. However, holiday makers' average spends have fallen marginally in the last five years. In 2001, holidayers were spending an average of ?876 per trip, five years later and that average spend defied inflation to stand at ?866. 
