online
{ Donal Lynch 
    November 08 2014 07:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/the-full-house-of-the-rising-son-a-young-smurfit-comes-of-age-30728911.html }
On the wall of Dermot Smurfit's Bond villain lair of an office in London hangs a huge map of America, dotted in parts with angry clusters of red.  It looks like it might be a prop from a US presidential election, detailing minute voter swings in flyover states - but actually it tells the GameAccount Network (GAN) CEO the location of every simulated gamer in America. These are Dermot's core voters, people who will pay for the experience of playing online games - different from gambling in that they're not placing a wager on the outcome of the game - and there is reckoned to be a vast untapped market made up of them. They are important too because these are, in all likelihood, the online gamblers of tomorrow, simulated gaming being something of a gateway to full-bore betting. These "bored Americans", as Smurfit calls them, are chomping at the bit to gamble their money and as regulation slowly opens up new US states to simulated gaming and online gambling it's thought the clusters of red will eventually coalesce, like virus cells in a petri dish, infecting their host - America - with the urge to gamble and the inclination to not be too unreasonable with the ol' regulation. Billions are at stake for whoever can both keep their nose clean and cash in on this modern-day gold rush. "It's very exciting," Smurfit says, brightly. "Pre-IPO we thought they'd spend maybe $60c per player per day. in fact it's more like $2.75 per player per day and it's trending sharply upwards. Just look at the map - it's changing all the time." Keeping pace with this explosion in growth is the current name of the game. Following its successful floatation on the London Stock Exchange in July 2013, GAN has taken on 40 new people this year alone, moving to new, larger offices in the meantime. As land-based casinos slowly wake up to the reality that people will gamble online with or without them, the company has also seen significant growth in higher-margin revenue streams. It is also working with Italian and US partners, all the while navigating its way through the minefield of regulation. And at the helm day and night is its confident young (he's 39) chief executive, who speaks about any subject you throw at him with the smooth articulacy of a pundit, delivered in an accent that lurches from mid-Atlantic drawl to south Dublin via public school. GAN, he explains, basically has two arms to its business. It offers financial services to online casinos, who wish to use it to process payments, but it also develops original online games for casinos. (As Smurfit and I chat, an open plan hive of geeks work on making each element as compulsive as possible - one tells me that even the image of the slight bounce of the ball on a virtual roulette table is "psychologically important" for the player). They are trying to formulate the Coca-Cola of games; The game that will light up a gambler's synapses. "We have some brilliant people working here", says Smurfit, surveying his geek pool (he didn't call them that, I should add). "To work here I like them to be smarter than me." And that, you think, is what the self-effacement of the super confident sounds like. (In England it gets more and more pronounced the higher up the pole you go, until you hit Boris Johnson). But he's being modest, because from the vantage point of 2014 it looks like he has thus far dusted himself off several times - "pivoting" as he calls it - and emerged as the calibre of Smurfit that the elder ones can brag about at the country club. Pivoting sounds faintly funky - like a hip-hop move - but for years GAN's story was more like a stately waltz. The company was something of an also-ran in the industry, partly because it focused on selling directly to consumers rather than third parties, but also because it refused to go into America, where the online superhighway was paved with gold. Smurfit had absolute rotters of CEOs from offshore online gambling companies "in the Caribbean and places like that" taunting him about his temerity in taking his chances in the lucrative wild west. These companies made huge money for a short time - but most are now being heavily investigated by US state authorities. And even though states like New Jersey have opened up to online gambling, the market is still worth far less than most estimates - Smurfit calls them "dope smoking" - because the American banks are not allowing their customers to use their credit cards for online gaming. "It's hard to be clean in this industry, because there's a lot of dirty money out there. The US is a very heavily regulated environment for land-based casinos," Smurfit explains. "Perhaps because of the long association with money laundering and organised crime? "Only 12 million Americans - out of a population of over 300 million - can legally gamble online. If you have a company like ours, every shareholder with 5pc or more, every director, and possibly even smaller shareholders who are interesting to them in some way, are subject to licensing review. "That's a process whereby they literally send FBI investigators to come and visit you in Europe and you have to disclose everything about yourself. They'll talk to your family, people you went to school with, they'll find out everything about you." Smurfit saw this for himself recently. "We had ex-FBI investigators, working for the gaming enforcement agency, visit us in Ireland. They've now closed off personal interviews with my chairman, with Michael Smurfit Jnr, with Sir Michael Smurfit in Monaco - all that kind of nonsense." 'Interrupting Sir Michael in Monaco' might sound like some class of comedy caper, but the younger Smurfit might have had just this kind of scenario in mind when he piped up at a family meeting in 2002. The old lions of the dynasty had put it to the young cubs: how will you keep the Smurfit name associated with the kind of success that we built? How will you make your own fortunes? Possibly resisting the urge to say "can't we just spend yours?" Dermot's suggestion was online gambling. With the important caveat: "That we keep the family name clean." On one level this was just good business sense - but it also revealed that while the young Smurfit benefited from being a scion of the dynasty, he may have felt its substantial weight upon his shoulders as well. He was born into privilege, of course - Papa Smurfit is Dermot Smurfit Sr and uncle is Sir Michael to you - but he grew up in a time when the threat of kidnappings loomed large in the Republic (in 2007 Martin Cahill's daughter claimed in her book that his gang had a plan to kidnap Michael Smurfit's ex-wife Norma). "I only found this out 20 years later but there was a point in time when that was a very real and present danger," he says. "The answer was get the hell out of dodge. We left in 1987. I was 12, my sister (Victoria, the actress) was 14. The Smurfit family was pretty anonymous here." They have more knights in England, you see. He attended school in Berkshire and spent every summer working at one of the Smurfit paper plants somewhere in the world. Eschewing the opportunity of going into the family business he went on to study law at Exeter, where his entrepreneurial spirit showed himself in renting out computers to earn beer money. In the end he went into banking rather than law - "because it didn't pay enough", he adds laughingly. "I'm mercenary, I'll admit it." He worked for a merchant bank in New York where he saw the end of the dotcom bubble but got fired (why do I imagine him laughing at the news?). By then he'd been exposed to the emergence of internet poker companies and it made him wonder if people would also play other skill-based games, like backgammon and solitaire, online. GameAccount was set up in 2001 as an in-house venture within financial services giant Cantor Fitzgerald. The 9/11 attacks put paid the to firm's technology projects, which meant that the firm's two founders had to go looking for investment - and this was where Smurfit came in. Initially he put his own money into it, with other family members investing "modest amounts" the following year. The first proper investor round came in 2004 however, when Andrew Black, the founder of Betfair (whom Smurfit knew from his banking days) decided to invest. This in turn brought in more private investors, including Dermot Desmond, and Sean Paterson, the former finance director of Betfair. In part because of Smurfit's understandable reluctance to go after "dirty" money in America and the Far East (he names another online gaming company which has, he says, recently done just that), progress was slow at first. Gradually, however, the company began to make a name for itself - and when the Rank Group nominated GAN as its platform for the Spanish online gaming market, it gave it the necessary fillip of credibility for its push into the US. The company turned down several serious offers (Sir Michael's advice rang in his nephew's ears: "You only get to sell once") and its big break Stateside came in October 2013, a few months after it was listed on the London Stock Exchange. In that month it partnered with Betfair to provide Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino with the technology to offer regulated real-money online gaming. It was one of the turning points in the history of the company to date. The worst moment during the early days of the business came, he says, when he realised that skills games were what he calls "a horrible false positive". An enormous amount of people were playing Solitaire - but not spending enough. The solution was a "pivot" into roulette, still using the same technology, but making substantially more on each player. Roulette seemed much closer to real gambling, however. He remains squeamish about the social ills of problem gambling and says it's important to differentiate legitimate, responsible players like GameAccount from the aforementioned cowboys of the online gambling wild west. (Some of GAN's partners allow you to exclude yourself if you think you have a problem - a pretty flimsy firewall against addiction, all told.) Interestingly, he also sees an instinct at play in gambling that dovetails with the adrenaline rush he gets from business. "I've read a lot about this. The reason we evolved from rodents to monkey to humans is because we were better at assessing risk than all other animals. We could successfully gauge risk - how far is the gap to the branch with the bananas? That's part of our evolutionary path. There is, I believe, a similar instinct at play in business." Little wonder, maybe, that horse racing and casinos were amongst the legendary pursuits of the male Smurfits. It's this combination of business pragmatism and a sense of social justice, perhaps, that means he welcomes the UK's new point of consumption tax on all online betting. "European governments essentially ignored internet gambling and gaming for a very long time," he explains. "The UK's Gaming Act of 2005, implemented in 2007, was the game changer. It was the UK government regulating this for the first time. But in doing so they created a piece of legislation which allowed companies to operate overseas and advertise in the UK. "They pulled their punch because they were worried about what the EU would say - whether they would say the UK had created an internal market. Step forward to 2008 the Italians were seeing how much money was leaving Italy to Malta and Israel and places like that. So they passed legislation creating an internal market inside Italy." The European Court Of Justice has now decided they are OK with that. "And that was huge!" Smurfit exclaims, with the touching enthusiasm of a law wonk. "They decided gambling was all about the culture. They allowed for the fact that people playing through offshore providers won't be protected from themselves." What excellent word associations for online gambling. Culture! Protecting us from ourselves! And once again GAN, the good boy in the class, based in the UK all along, apple polished and homework done for the regulator, was poised to capitalise. As it is in the US, where, Smurfit says, Pennsylvania will be the next state to regulate itself. The growth this year has, he says, solely been down to the situation in the US. Playing the long game, pivoting quickly when needed, has let him create something that will probably stand the test of time. And though the night after we meet he loses out in the Entrepreneur Of The Year Awards (to Mark Roden of Ding) he can now say that he has created a new wing to the storied dynasty. One that has the most exquisite whiff of sulphur - however hard he scrubs. He is growing into his name - even if "Sir Dermot" is some way off yet.   'I'M NOT THE SMARTEST GUY, BUT I CAN WORK THE HARDEST' The biggest personal cost of being a CEO is… "the long hours away from the family. My Dad was away a lot when we were kids and now I'm away from my three kids. I think as a child you do absorb a work ethic by proxy."  If I could give myself younger self any advice it would be... "to give it your all. Michael Bloomberg once said something that I think applies to me. I'm not the smartest guy in the room, but I can work the hardest. I'm even on the phone at the beach." What's worrying me right now is… "the bubble in China. It's the greatest global economic risk we face - much more concerning than the bubble in England." The best gift I've given recently is... "Toblerone." My most recent investment was... "Well, I bought a house in Fulham earlier this year - after years of waiting in vain for the property market to collapse again. When you go through the process you realise you're either renting a property or renting money from the bank. There isn't a lot of difference." Sunday Indo Business 
