online
{ Sarah McCabe 
    December 13 2014 05:53 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/tesco-ireland-ramps-up-online-shopping-as-price-war-rages-30833489.html }
Tesco has revealed an ambitious online strategy to the Sunday Independent, as the company pushes online sales hard in what retailers are calling the most challenging year yet for supermarkets.  Tesco Ireland's online sales are accelerating far quicker than in-store sales, the company's e-commerce manager Tadhg Dolly said. Tesco is one of only two larger Irish grocers to operate an online order and delivery model. The other is SuperValu. While German discounters Aldi and Lidl have gained ground at an astonishing pace in physical sales in recent years, the online grocery market is still wide open. This includes rolling out a flat-rate fee for deliveries - for €7.50 a month, households can order as many deliveries as they wish. The company is fast becoming as much of a delivery company as it is a grocer. It has added 350 online delivery drivers to its staff, who provide coverage to 86pc of the country. It has 15 "click and collect" locations where consumers can pick up orders made online for free and has just done a deal with Luas operator Veolia to open free pick-up depots at the Red Cow and Stillorgan Luas stops in Dublin. Tesco has seen its market share dwindle in recent years amid fierce price competition from competitors such as Aldi, Lidl and Dunnes. The large, American-style, out-of-town supermarkets it ploughed money into in the last decades fell out of favour with time and cash-pressed consumers. However, none of those competitors have attempted to build an order-deliver service in Ireland. The industry is more advanced in the UK. Ocado, Sainsbury's, Waitrose, Tesco and Asda all have extensive online offerings in Britain, allowing customers to fill their carts and have their groceries delivered with the click of a button. "Online sales are growing much faster than physical sales," said Mr Dolly. "Last year we did 500,000 deliveries and that figure will be up significantly by the end of this year. And mobile shopping in particular is booming, more than doubling annually." Online customers still favour the kind of large weekly shops that supermarket bosses adore. "They still do a weekly shop and they tend to spend more in one go." Luxury products like strawberries consistently make the top 10 products bought, he said. "But it's a more considered shop, with fewer impulse buys. "Baby products sell particularly well. We think that's because parents who are short on time particularly benefit from online grocery shopping, which they can do while at home with their children. "Parents also like online shopping to buy for children in college. That way they know their money is being spent on food, not other things." Irish consumer's appetite for online shopping is up markedly this year, retailers have reported. Harvey Norman has seen a 170pc rise in December online sales so far, according to head of e-commerce Richard Moyles. "Cyber Monday so far has been our biggest day for online sales and visitor numbers since we started selling online in 2012. The Irish market is taking to online this year with An Post reporting package volume increases of 60pc on last year. Convenience is driving online growth," he said. Sunday Indo Business 
