online
{  
    December 06 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/deutsche-telekom-reins-in-its-wayward-online-offspring-26101459.html }
The phone at the Darmstadt headquarters of Europe's largest internet service provider rings endlessly, but there seems to be no one there to pick it up. Staff at T-Online are scarce, management has been depleted in the wake of revelations about moonlighting, and the original five-strong board is down to one: Thank you, Eric Danke, for valiantly holding the fort. Last week brought some rare good news to the troubled company. After a three-month gap, a new CEO had been found. He is Thomas Holtrop, former marketing boss of Deutsche Bank 24 (the bank's retail arm). Despite Mr Holtrop's internet experience and marketing savvy, T-Online's shares fell 7% within a day of his appointment. And they have been dropping ever since. For the market has sensed that T-Online may still have 6 million customers on its books, but the company behind those portals is vanishing into virtual reality. Darmstadt is but a meaningless telephone number, not even connected to an answering machine. What little management remains is conducted from the 9th floor of the parent company headquarters in Bonn. Deutsche Telekom has reined in its rebellious offspring. When Telekom floated its mighty internet subsidiary on Frankfurt's Neuer Markt in April, one in five Germans applied. Investors had to be rationed to a few precious shares, issued at ?27 (stg£16.7) each. Some 100 million shares were sold, amounting to 9% of the company's capital. Yesterday the stocks languished at ?15.4 euros, nearly half their IPO price, and the smart money is on a further fall. "The influence Deutsche Telekom has over T-Online underlies our recommendation to 'reduce'," says Michelle Lang of Sal Oppenheim. "They have no management and no business plan, so they have a grave problem," another analyst chimes in. Management and business plan were thrown overboard in the last three months, as Ron Sommer, the boss of Deutsche Telekom, reasserted control. Four of the five board members have left in acrimony, and heads rolled at executive level. The Sommer loyalists who have temporarily taken their place are unable to assert themselves on a staff confused about future direction and resentful of this very unusual kind of hostile takeover. Losses are piling up. The rot set in on 25 August, with the abrupt departure of T-Online's chairman, Wolfgang Keuntje. Tension had been rising between Mr Sommer and Mr Keuntje over the disposal of the ?2.7bn raised in April's IPO. T-Online wanted to spend its loot on foreign acquisitions, targeting the British internet provider Freeserve. At Telekom headquarters the price of the proposed merger, stg£6bn before talks collapsed in June, was deemed too high. Rumours circulated after the Freeserve fiasco. Following Mr Keuntje's departure it soon became apparent that the rest of T-Online's board were also on their way out. They learnt from the newspapers that they had fallen out of Bonn's favour. Two more board members, Ralf Eck, head of marketing, and Christian Hoening, head of finance, left within six weeks. Then last month Berndt Reichert-Berg, responsible for service, also took his hat. No official explanation has been given for the shake-up, but Bonn has let it be known it was displeased with the performance of T-Online's board. Such innuendo is countered, however, by remaining T-Online loyalists. They argue that Mr Eck, for instance, could hardly have made too many mistakes, since his responsibility, marketing, had been handled directly from Deutsche Telekom. The 2 million investors who bought into what they thought was an independent company immediately showed their displeasure. Share prices had risen to ?48 in the euphoric months after the successful launch, particularly when technology stocks appeared to be recovering from their collapse earlier in the year. Since Mr Keuntje's departure, there has barely been a day when T-Online stocks did not fall. The original investors are ?1.1bn poorer. At the end of October, Telekom disclosed that four of its internet subsidiary's top managers were suspended for pursuing "unauthorised sidelines". In other circumstances, Georg Müller, Rolf Gleich, Adalbert von Uckermann and Jürgen Banzhaf – the latter responsible for legal matters – might have been congratulated for their enterpreneurial spirit. But their moonlighting appeared to run counter to company interests. They had formed a company named T.O.P. Internet Excellence, which held 20% of the advertising agency NetEvent. Through the good offices of the latter, T-Online had signed a DM60m (stg£18.6m) sponsorship deal with the ATP tennis circuit. Experts considered the price too high. In any case, NetEvent took 10% of the deal in commission: a nice little earner for the T-Online managers. Worse, they claimed Mr Keuntje, the former chairman, had known about their activities. T-Online, or rather Telekom, has launched an investigation into Mr Keuntje's role in the affair. Suspicion grows that Mr Sommer had some inkling of the goings-on in Darmstadt, but swept them under the carpet for the sake of a smooth IPO. Equally carefully concealed was the fact that under the strategy the parent company was pursuing, T-Online would not make money. Certainly not after the introduction in June of the flat rate, allowing customers to surf indefinitely. It was Mr Sommer's idea, and a very good one it was, at least from Telekom's point-of-view. T-Online continues to be billed by the parent company for every minute on line, while its own revenue is limited to DM79 per customer. The impact has been horrendous. Figures for the first nine months of the year showed an 86.5% leap in turnover, generating a record deficit of ?53.5m. Most of the loss was attributed to the disastrous third quarter, when the company dived deep into the red. Further turmoil can be expected as Mr Sommer switches strategy away from foreign expansion, and towards improving content: the latest Holy Grail of the internet industry. Most T-Online customers use the service as a gateway for browsing in the free domains of the internet. If they could be persuaded to linger a little longer in T-Online's realm, the company might just make some money out of them. As things stand, the earnings are marginal at best. Telekom has been in charge for three months and investors await positive news. A successor to Mr Keuntje failed to cheer analysts. It was clear Mr Sommer had difficulty filling the vacancy. He was rumoured to have met with rejection until Mr Holtrop was approached. This state of affairs is not entirely unsurprising. Mr Holtrop will have little influence in his own company. His job is to do Mr Sommer's bidding. T-Online is falling desperately short of executive talent. It would be delighted to hear from suitable candidates.  By IMRE KARACS
  London Independent 
