online
{  
    June 27 2008 09:53 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/technology/online-bingo-poised-for-growth-26457685.html }
For most people, bingo brings up images of elderly ladies in smoke-filled halls. But many online gambling executives say it's the next big growth area. Consider the numbers. The U.K. is the world's most developed online bingo market, with the number of Web sites growing to 243 in June 2008 from 17 in 2004, according to Phil Fraser of Leeds, England-based Which Bingo, one of the leading bingo information sites and chairman of the 2008 Online Bingo Summit, which met in London last week. In Spain, the second most competitive market, the number of Web sites grew to 40 from six in the past year. A report released this month by BingoPort.co.uk, an online bingo tracking service, estimated the U.K. online bingo industry earned 120 million pounds ($239 million) last year on 650 million pounds of revenue. The U.K.'s Gambling Commission estimates there are about 500,000 British online bingo players each month. Online bingo isn't new -- the first game appeared in 1995 in the U.S. -- but its growth has been accelerated by the spread of broadband Internet access. Bingo players tend to be female, aged 25 to 50 and educated to high school level, according to data released by Cashcade Ltd., owner of Foxy Bingo and Think Bingo, two of the largest privately owned U.K. Web sites. European Expansion Al Haig-Thomas, chief executive of Virtue Fusion, a software supplier to U.K. bingo brands including Rank Group Plc's Mecca, William Hill Plc, British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc's Skybet and Ladbrokes Plc, says the opportunities for growth are in Europe during the next one to three years and in South America and Asia during the next five to eight years. ``We have several clients planning launches in Spain in the next three months and also new sites in Denmark, Sweden and Ireland,'' Haig-Thomas said in an interview. ``All are undeveloped markets that have a history and culture of bingo halls, so you would expect them to follow the U.K. market in terms of growth.'' (Disclaimer: I own Crown Bingo Ltd., a U.K. online bingo marketing network, and am an investor in various privately held online bingo websites. Crown Bingo uses software from Virtue Fusion.) Bingo is big business in the U.S., but the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 slashed the number of online sites operating there. Americans still play bingo extensively, mainly as a fundraising exercise for churches and community associations. Many casinos have bingo halls to bring in regular attendees from the local market. Bingo Television In the U.K., the main commercial broadcaster, ITV Plc, recently started a daily bingo show, Bingo Night Live, which achieved respectable audience ratings for its midnight time slot. The game is linked to ITV's online site, itvbingo.com, which was developed with PartyGaming Plc. In Sweden, a weekly bingo show is one of the most-watched programs. Several speakers at last week's Bingo Summit said the future is in televised bingo shows linked to a Web site. Warwick Bartlett, chairman of U.K.-based Global Betting and Gaming Consultants, says online bingo is still relatively immature compared with Internet casinos and sports betting. ``We estimate that by 2012 online bingo will account for 25 percent of the worldwide betting market and deliver profits in excess of $2 billion,'' Bartlett said at last week's conference. ``As broadband penetration increases, people become more conscious about the cost of driving to real-world bingo halls,'' Bartlett said. When ``they find that they can't smoke when they get there, playing online bingo from home becomes more and more attractive. From a customer point of view it is a great gambling proposition at a very low cost,'' he said. Lost in Translation? Of course, there are risks. Many of the territories discussed as having huge potential growth are of dubious legality; executives of online gambling companies have been arrested in Turkey and France in the past 12 months while several European governments are fighting legal actions to keep online gambling companies from targeting their citizens. There is also the danger that bingo doesn't translate well into new territories that have no history of bingo halls. Do Polish or Ukrainian gamblers want to play bingo, a game with no cultural roots in those countries? Finally, in both the U.S. and U.K. there is plenty of evidence that bricks and mortar operators of casinos, betting shops and bingo halls are suffering from recession, even though gambling historically has suffered little during an economic slump. Fraser at Which Bingo says there are signs of a slowdown in the U.K. online bingo market. ``It appears the market is growing at about 3 percent month on month, versus about 10 percent about a year ago,'' he said in an interview. ``So there is some sign that the economy is having an effect on online bingo. But I would prefer to say that while it may not be recession-proof, those sort of growth numbers suggest it seems to be recession- resistant.'' 
