online
{  
    October 30 2007 06:51 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/online-banking-net-spending-26328368.html }
Online banking is used by as few as 14pc of Irish bank customers, according to a recent survey by Halifax. One of the reasons is the lack of internet penetration, with less than half of Irish adults having daily access to the internet. But the survey also found that among those with internet access, around two-thirds still do not use online banking. That figure is surprising given the fact that internet banking can save consumers time and money. "There are a number of reasons for using internet banking -- one is it is a lot quicker and easier than any other way of doing banking," says Brendan Nevin, director of marketing and strategy at Bank of Ireland. "It can also save you money in terms of qualifying you for interest on credit balances. If you use online banking with most of the major operators, you get your interest on credit balances. "So it does save you money but the amount of money it probably saves you is small because bank charges are small. I think the big saving is on your own time and things like transport costs which are the more significant element." However small they may be, savings can be made. AIB also offers free banking to customers if they use the online service and their debit card once a quarter. However, Halifax offers free banking regardless of whether customers use the internet to conduct their banking business. "Some of the existing banks here in Ireland are actually stipulating that you have to make a transaction through their call centre or online banking to avail of free banking. In Halifax, we don't put those caveats on our product," says James Moore, head of the bank's e-commerce. According to Mr Moore, the real benefit from internet banking is that it allows people to take control over their own finances and allows them to control their spending. "Online banking is 24/7 and customers can avail of it any time they want to do it and with the functionality we provide online for our customers, the vast majority of transactions you would want to do through a branch or over the phone you can do online yourself at your convenience and control," he says. "Customers who can constantly access their accounts to see transactions going through are much more in control and can anticipate if they are going to go into an overdraft situation or they could move a proportion of their money into a savings account to a earn a high level of interest if they have a very high balance on their account. It gives them that flexibility and control." Mr Nevin of Bank of Ireland agrees that the online bank allows you to take more personal responsibility for your finances. "There is really no other way of having such visibility of your transactions. You can go in 10 times a day to check your accounts. There is no other way of doing that short of going to a branch every five minutes which isn't realistic. It definitely enables you to understand what you are spending far better than anything else and to control it." Increased functionality such as international money transfer or online share trading is unlikely to lead to customers spending more, according to Mr Nevin. "Online banking is simply a mechanism for controlling the spend and making the payment happen. I think if anything it is more likely to make people spend less because they can see exactly what they are spending." Bank of Ireland has seen a 30pc increase in the number of online transactions so far this year, with more than four million transactions conducted online between January and September, according to Nevin. "It's also proved hugely successful as a sales channel and we've witnessed a 150pc increase over the last two years in the number of customers choosing to source their loan online," he said. But one of the reasons being touted for the poor take-up of internet banking is concern over security. Nevin says that banks are investing huge amounts of money in internet security. "There are a lot of things that customers can do to make things more secure, such as having proper anti-virus software. "Don't give away your personal details and particularly your bank account details to anybody. Nobody should ever ask you for your PIN number. "People can mock up false sites but just remember, your bank will not ask you for your PIN number." Brian Curtin, a 22-year-old IT professional has been a regular user of Bank of Ireland's 365 online since he started working. "The biggest benefit for me is the convenience," he says. "I can log on in the evening or at weekends -- whenever I like. I work during banking hours so I expect to be able to do most things online and the last thing you have time for is to be running to the bank to perform random, yet vital personal errands. "I use 365 online to do a variety of things and would be a daily visitor to check my balance and transactions. It only takes a few seconds and I always know what I've left to spend each month which is great." Mr Curtin says he now uses it to pay all of his utility bills and his credit card each month. "I can see all my recent transactions and I like the fact that I can move money between my accounts at any time, although it's more likely to be from my savings to my current account as opposed to the other way around. "It's also really handy to be able to pay a little extra into my savings or credit card accounts when money is flush." 
