online
{ Mary O'Donnell 
    January 11 2009 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/how-to-go-about-making-your-cao-application-26505428.html }
Applicants may apply to CAO in either of two ways, either by using a paper application form, or by using the online application method at www.cao.ie. Online application is by far the most popular method of application to CAO. It is simple and almost foolproof, so it is not surprising that over 88pc of applicants opted for online application last year. CAO's application fee for 2009 is €45, for applications received by the closing date of February 1, whether online or paper. However, online applicants are entitled to a €10 discount (or a fee of €35) if they apply before January 20, 2009. Late applications may be made with some restrictions to CAO after February 1 up to May 1, for €70 online and €90 for a paper application. Q. Apart from the discounted fee before January 20, are there any other advantages to applying online? A. CAO recommends that all applicants use the online application process as they are far less likely to make an error using it. There is another significant difference between the paper and the online process. When applicants use the paper application form, they fill out the various sections, including the all-important course choices sections, and post off the application. They will have the opportunity of using a correction or amendment facility between February 5 and March 1 if they have forgotten a restricted course, or in the normal May/June change of mind period if they wish, but once they post their paper application, their application is completed for the time being. Online applicants enjoy greater flexibility from the time they apply to CAO until January 31. They effectively open an email line of communication with CAO when they provide CAO with their email address at the time of submitting their application. Online applicants will be issued with their CAO application number as soon as they submit their application. Once they receive this number, they may make changes to their details, course choices etc, up to the end of January. CAO will send them an email each time they make a change to the application. After January 31, online applicants and paper applicants follow the same rules about changes to their application. They will have the opportunity of using a correction or amendment facility between February 5 and March 1 for a fee of €10 if they have forgotten a restricted course, or in the normal May/June change of mind period, free of charge. Q. What courses are "restricted"? A. "Restricted application" courses are those for which there are early assessment procedures usually around March or April, for example, Art and Design or music degree courses, which require portfolios or music tests. Applications to mature nursing are restricted as tests and interviews from part of the selection. Undergraduate courses in medicine are restricted from 2009. An application for a restricted application course cannot be considered unless it has been included among an applicant's original courses choices to arrive in CAO by February 1, or it has been added to an existing application for an additional fee of €10 between February 5 and March 1, the final date for correction of errors and omissions. Q. I hear so much about people making mistakes with their CAO application that I am very worried that I will do the same. A. It is actually a very straight-forward process. Most people make no mistakes at all. You should read your copy of the CAO 2009 Handbook, whether you choose to apply online or to use the paper application form. The handbook is the "bible" as far as application procedures are concerned. Applicants have the opportunity of going through an interactive "demo" online application procedure on CAO's website before completing the real application. The online application process presents on the computer screen page by page, so an applicant must complete each page before the next page appears on screen. The CAO paper application form consists of four pages. Pages one and two of the paper form constitute Part A, to be completed by all applicants. Non-standard applicants only are required to fill out Part B (pages three and four) as well. The same information is sought whether the applicant applies online or by paper. Most applicants are standard school leaving Irish, and all that is required of them is their name, date of birth, gender, nationality, address, phone numbers, email address if desired, details of schools attended, Republic of Ireland examination details. They are then asked to list their course choices. Applicants who are applying for a college place on the basis of categories in addition to or other than Leaving Certificate results will use pages three and four of the application form as well, or tick the relevant boxes on the online application. Pages 11 and 12 of the Handbook give further advice to non-standard applicants. There is a slight difference in the order in which the information is requested online or by paper, but that is of no significance. The listing of your course choices is the heart of the application process, whether online or on paper. This section provides two lists, one entitled Level 8 (for honours degree courses) and the other entitled Level 7/6 (for ordinary degree or higher certificate courses). Applicants may apply to both lists. The two lists operate independently of one and other. You will be offered the highest preference course you are entitled to, if any, from each list. Q. Should I list my courses in order of points? A. No. You should list your courses in order of genuine preference in each list. This is the golden rule at the heart of the CAO process and it is spelt out clearly on page 9 of the CAO handbook w here it states: "It is MOST IMPORTANT that you state your course choices in view of genuine preference and/or career plans. IT IS A MISTAKE to base your choices only on your present expectation of examination performance or the points levels of previous years. There is no need to fear that a statement of your genuine order of preference will militate against you. If you are not successful in your first choice, this will have no effect on your chances of obtaining a place in one of your lower preferences." 
