online
{ Deirdre Reynolds 
    April 14 2008 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/style/fashion/online-shopping-its-in-the-bag-26437503.html }
It's meant to be the ultimate girly treat -- a chance for friends, sisters and mums to band together to erase the week's woes by burning cash and clocking up calories. But for women across the country every Saturday, the weekly session of retail therapy has turned into retail torture. Instead of a cosmopolitan outing, it has become more like an obstacle course that's no place for high heels -- with parallel parking, stampeding shoppers, changing-room queues and snooty sales assistants just some of the hurdles. Now, though, more and more Irish women are turning to chilled-out cyberspace rather than stressful shopping centres when stocking up on style. And despite the fact that cynics claimed it would never take off, online clothes shopping has become the cornerstone of the eCommerce revolution, according to the latest figures. A recent survey revealed that almost half of all consumers here don't bother to leave the sofa while shopping. And when it comes to web-based bargain hunting, it's fashion-conscious women who are fuelling the phenomenon. Fashion has joined concert tickets and CDs on the list of most popular e-purchases, with web sales of clothes soaring by 40 per cent in the past two years. Meanwhile, fashion website my-wardrobe.com reported a staggering 143 per cent surge in sales in its second year of trading. And it was only a matter of time before the fashion industry made designs on the dotcom explosion, according to Stylebible.ie editor Elizabeth Greehy. "The fashion world is simply following in the footsteps of every other major commodity in this country by rapidly selling online," says Greehy, who runs the site for fashion followers. 'In the same way, women are replenishing their wardrobes without moving from the PC. You can find pretty much anything you're looking for online these days, whether it's designer hair pieces or magic knickers. "For women who don't have the time or energy to hit the high street, online shopping is convenient and easy. It also gives them access to niche market products such as plus-size clothes or larger shoes," she explains. But there's nothing new about splashing out on clothes from the comfort of the couch. When shopping for fashion first became all the rage in the 1800s, dressmakers and milliners would haul their wares to customers' homes. However, unlike back then, the modern answer to home-shopping doesn't allow girls to road test the sizing or examine every seam before parting with their pay. And while some user-friendly sites like knickerpicker.com have developed techniques, such as virtual models with varying body shapes, so the customer can 'try on' the garment, there's no guarantee it will fit like a glove after it lands on your doorstep. "The overwhelming disadvantage of online shopping is that you can't touch the garment and determine its quality before purchasing," Greehy agrees. "But most reputable online stores will try to make this part of the process as easy as possible by providing good imagery of the product, describing it in detail and offering a fair returns policy. "Some sites also offer short video clips of a model wearing the outfit on the runway, which allows you to see it in motion -- how the fabric sits and flows and clings. Straight away, this is better than fingering through a pile of clothes on a railing. "However," Greehy warns, "it's crucial to know your measurements before buying clothes over the net. This doesn't just mean if you're generally a size 12 or 14 because, as we all know, a 10 in one shop can be a 12 in another and it's no different online. Physically measure yourself so you can compare it with the size guides provided on the sites." And although e-shopping is on the rise, 42 per cent still confessed to feeling angsty about handing over their credit card number to faceless vendors in far-flung places. There's a certain element of risk in online shopping, but you can minimise that by doing a little research before buying. "The most obvious step is to ask yourself if you've heard of the site before, or if you know of anyone who's used it successfully in the past. If not, look for legitimate contact details like a name, address and phone number -- not just a mobile number. "Read the terms and conditions carefully and make sure they have a refund or returns policy. Find out if they have a complaints-handling process too. "If you're concerned about in-putting personal information, then watch for the padlock symbol at the bottom right-hand side of the browser which means it's a security-locked site. "Finally, make sure that the prices are in euro and that they're not heaping on any hidden charges before you get to the check out and always print out a copy of your order details and the receipt." Sinead Desmond Ireland AM presenter > 
www.net-a-porter.com : I've often thought it would be wonderful if girls could flick through their favourite fashion magazine, instantly order whatever designer shoes or dress they fancy and have it arrive at their home beautifully wrapped. That's exactly what this site does. It's been around for a long time -- well, in internet terms anyway -- and in my opinion it's still the original and best. > 
www.dorotheasclosetvintage.com : An American site which deals in very well-priced vintage clothing, everything from shoes to jewellery to stunning cocktail dresses. The items are also in very good nick. It's a sister site to Noirboudoir.com, which carries vintage lingerie I never buy because of the 'eughh' factor! But their vintage kimonos are stunning and great value. There are a lot of vintage websites out there but I find many of them overpriced. These two are in dollars so it's even cheaper. > 
www.agentprovocateur.com : I have to admit I spend more money on underwear than any other luxury item -- I love it. I have way too much and I blame it all on how easy it is to buy online! Agent Provocateur's lingerie always fits so I can buy online and save the hassle of stripping off in the changing room. I also like La Perla for when I'm in a pretty mood. This is for when I'm feeling naughty! Roz Lipsett Model > 
www.dailycandy.com : I know a lot of girls at home like eBay, but since moving to New York I always tell friends to try this one instead. It's a fantastic site that lists all the current sample sales in the city. Discount designer shopping is always a must when you visit Manhattan, so this is a great place to start. > 
www.victoriassecret.com : I like to shop in the Victoria's Secret cyberstore, as even in the States you can't buy their clothing collection in stores -- only online. It may be famous for its underwear, but the brand's clothes are very inexpensive and it's shoes are very high -- a good combination if you ask me! > 
www.sephora.com : Sephora beauty stores in the States are usually so vast that it would take about four hours to browse through. The website is great as it updates you on all the latest products, prices and explains what exactly the 'new miracle cream' or whatever will do for your skin. Jenny Buckley, Channel 6 presenter > 
www.mywardrobe.com : When it comes to shopping online, this is probably the website I use most often. I find it really reliable because if the clothes don't fit you can send them back and they'll refund your money straight away. The prices are very reasonable too so it doesn't matter if you're on a budget and they keep up-to-date with all the latest trends. > 
www.net-a-porter.com : This is my pay day site! It has an incredible selection of designer clothes by the likes of Marc Jacob and Vera Wang. I only ever use it as a treat to myself though. Some of the items are pretty pricey -- but it's worth it for a once off. > 
www.edressme.com : Whenever I'm stuck for a fabulous frock for a special occasion, I always fall back on this site. It's based in the Big Apple and boasts every type of dress imaginable, from minis to LBDs to sundresses. I love their formal wear though. It doesn't break the bank either. Laura BErmingham, Ex-model and Beauty Editor > 
www.WWD.com : I get the Women's Wear Daily newsletter emailed to me every day and I read it religiously. It's a US site that reports in-depth on fashion, beauty and retail news. I find it useful to keep an eye on what's happening in the world of fashion and beauty Stateside as a lot of the products and trends land here eventually. I don't buy a lot online from fashion sites any more but I watch them all fairly keenly. > 
www.beaut.ie : I always give my own honest opinion on products that I write about, but it's also good to find out what women are talking about. I do a radio column which caters for a much younger audience than I'm used to writing for, so I always look up this Irish beauty blog. It seems to have a following of younger women who are seriously into their make-up. There's no point in talking about Estee Lauder, because to teenagers that's something their mums wear. > 
www.ilgiardino.ie : An organic Italian skincare brand I'm addicted to. They've just opened their first store in Dublin and are also available online. The fact that people can buy brands like this online frees me up a lot. It means I can recommend stuff and not have to worry that women won't be able to get it locally. Women don't want to have to hop on a plane to stock up on their favourite lipstick. Sarah McDonnell Magazine editor > 
www.net-a-porter.com : Every member of our editorial team is a committed user of this site, probably the best edit of designer fashion online. It's dangerously suggestible: we almost always buy! Service is swift and presentation impeccable - good for gifts too. > 
www.wolford.ie : For the underpinnings of a working wardrobe, we like Wolford's new Irish site. As well as hosiery, it's worth taking a look at their blouses, body tops and accessories to get the basics right. The sizing is spot on, and orders are turned around in about a week. > 
www.topshop.co.uk : Our junior staffer is trying to convert us to this one. She finds things that are not in store in Dublin, especially the Designers for TopShop collection. The shoe selection is better online apparently, with plenty of sizes. And you avoid the heaving Saturday crowd! 
