online
{  
    February 19 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/bookies-first-past-the-post-in-online-betting-26097174.html }
The world of online betting is getting crowded as bookies  hope to encourage women and first time players into the market, writes JACQUELINE SHEILS. IF there was ever an industry that needed a change of image it was gambling. Smokey, corner betting shops with blocked out windows, packed with old men shouting at the TV this is the image of 'the bookies' many of us have grown up with. Not surprisingly, then, the revenue from the 720 betting shops dotted around the country remained stagnant during the nineties as the industry failed to attract new customers namely women and young professionals. Online betting is now seen by the bookies as the lifeline needed to expand the market, as revenues in this corner of the sector continue to surprise even the most jaded market analysts. The online gambling arena has been growing at more than 100pc per annum over the last four years and is expected to be worth $11 billion globally by 2004 split equally between the US and Western Europe. The total betting revenue in Ireland, combining offline and online betting, is now estimated to be worth £1billion. But, questions are being asked about whether those, not normally attracted to gambling, will suddenly get a taste for it simply because its online? Those in the know argue, fervently, that they will. They maintain the major attraction to online betting, like anything else online, is convenience. Avoiding the intimidating betting shop is a major attraction this, combined with the fact that most online bookies are now offering bets on the storylines of TV soaps or the outcome of elections, means you don't have to be an expert on horseracing or football to have a flutter. Advocates also suggest that many online bookies are now absorbing the five pc tax and that placing a bet online is actually good value. It's surprising to note that, contrary to popular belief, 58pc of the total market value for online betting comes from bets placed on lotteries and pools, with horse racing and event betting coming in second at only 28pc. Bookies maintain that these figures indicate that it's not only sporting events traditionally considered a male dominated arena that are proving popular online, but it's the lottery popular with both sexes that's the real success story. A recent report showed that while 70pc of the UK population play the Lottery only six pc regularly visit a betting shop illustrating that people may, in the future, feel more comfortable betting online. Don O'Sullivan, Marketing Manager of Bananabet.com, launched earlier this month, says that the market has to expand to attract women and 'white collar' workers and online betting is the way to do it. "If you buy a lottery ticket, a scratch card, even Eircom shares you are gambling," explains O'Sullivan. "So those that would never dream of entering a bookies but do actually gamble now and then, can now simply place a bet online." Nóirin Ní Laocha, Marketing Manager ofPaddyPower.com, agrees that the Internet is attracting those who would never usually place a bet in the traditional way. The Paddy Power site is attracting over half a million page impressions a month. "I firmly believe that the Internet is an ideal medium for betting," says Ní Laocha. "The accessibility and ease of betting online makes the whole business easier and less intimidating for a broader customer base that bookies have traditionally catered for. This would obviously include women and first-time punters, especially now with the introduction of betting on the Irish and UK lottery numbers." While the rush to open online bookies has so far been dominated by the major high-street chains, it's been noticeable that the smaller players haven't been frightened off by the presence of the big boys. After all, on the web, no-one can tell whether you've 100 stores or a single premises just off the Main Street in Trim. "The way you have to look at it is that the bigger bookies are now not any closer to the customer than the smaller ones, we are now all operating in the same arena," says Bananabet.com's Don O'Sullivan. But it's not all plain sailing for the smaller bookmakers. Some are concerned that the bigger bookies, such as Paddy Power and Ladbrokes, will dominate the market simply because of their size, reputation and marketing budgets. There's no denying that this sector is getting more and more crowded and only the very strong will survive. Whatever the outcome, the hapless punter has at least one consolation this time it's the bookies who're putting their money on the line. 
