online
{ Ellie Donnelly 
    November 10 2017 02:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/technology/men-shopping-online-more-than-women-36306815.html }
More men shopped online in 2016 than women, with 67pc of male internet users shopping online last year, compared to 65pc of female internet users in Europe, according to data from Eurostat. In Ireland, men and women were evenly split in their online shopping, with 71pc of men and 71pc of women shopping online in 2016. However, when it comes to shopping for clothes, women out-shopped men online, with 68pc of female e-shoppers in Europe buying clothes online in comparison to 56pc of men. The figures for Ireland reflect the overall European trend, with 68pc of female internet users in Ireland buying clothes online in 2016, compared with just over on in two males. Male shoppers in Europe were much more willing to engage in the purchase of electronic equipment online, with almost one in three men buying electronics online last year, compared to just 17pc of female online shoppers. In Ireland, the trend almost perfectly matched the European trend, with 35pc of male internet shoppers buying electrical goods online compared with 17pc of female internet shoppers in Ireland. For items such as films, household goods, travel, and accommodation, the differences between the sexes in purchasing these times was much smaller, with almost the same share of women and men engaging in the online purchase of such items. In terms of internet activities, last year fewer than 50pc of Irish female internet users read the news online, while 53pc of male Irish internet users read the news online, with Ireland recording the lowest rate for people reading the news online across Europe. However Irish people were much more likely to spend time on social media in 2016, with three in four Irish women participating in social networks online last year, compared to two in three Irish men. Irish people were also keen users of internet banking in 2016, with an average of two third of us engaging in online banking. Online Editors 
