online
{ Marie Boran 
    June 12 2008 08:01 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/technology/tourism-sector-needs-to-go-site-seeing-26453708.html }
Ireland’s hospitality sector spends just 1pc of its marketing budget online and is now falling behind global standards. About 80pc of Irish people research online before booking their holidays and both Aerlingus.com and Ryanair.com are among the top-visited sites in Ireland. Yet at home, the average online marketing spend for the hospitality industry is 1pc of its overall budget. The consumer has gone online but where is the tourism sector? “If you look at where people get their information from, about 30pc is coming through the internet, whereas if you look at spend in the tourism sector, only 1pc is digital,” says Conor Daly, founder and managing director of Travel Logic, an e-marketing and website development firm for B&Bs and smaller players in the hospitality sector. “If you want to reach this digital audience, you should be breaking down your advertising spend accordingly. The 1pc spend as it stands is mostly by the bigger firms with dedicated IT departments, but if you look at Ireland as a whole, most tourism businesses are owner-managed or independents. The challenge for the owner-manager to take control of a website, email marketing and IT is becoming more complex and very often they do not have the in-house resources or the budgets to hire in experts: “They are getting left behind,” says Daly. This sentiment is echoed by Jan Blanchard (pictured), founder of social networking travel site Touristr, but Blanchard sees mass collaboration and crowd wisdom as the way forward, especially for the independent hotel and B&B owner. “In 2007, more travel sales were booked online than in person. So that means if we want to increase visitors to Ireland, we need to shift more of our budget to the web. “We need Irish travel websites where users can see practical information, research travel plans, read user reviews and look at user photos and videos,” says Blanchard. The ideal is a mix between a tourist office, a travel agent and a social network so that everyone around the world can relate to people’s experiences when they think about Ireland, he suggests. Blanchard thinks there is a fear and lack of understanding about how expensive it is to set up and run a travel site and get into the social web. “Today, new technologies are making it easier, faster and cheaper to build websites. However, smaller companies still think the investment is too big and it’s only for the big guys.” This reality is reflected in a basic internet search: Daly gives the example of googling for a hotel in Galway. The results you find will mostly represent the bigger properties. The same is true of using the social web: why does a travel site with user-generated content, like TripAdvisor.com, have in-depth listings of Irish B&Bs where time and care has been taken to write a full review and add pictures, yet there is no way to click through and book a property online, whereas the bigger hotels are using these sites to their advantage? The lifeline for the smaller independents in the tourism industry has always been the high-street travel agent, and to a degree, this is still the case, says Daly. But increasingly, as the travel agent closes or moves online, this sector suffers. Some smaller players have embraced the change with gusto, such as Aer Arann which has gone on to become an Irish e-commerce success story. With an online marketing budget of €800,000 for 2008, Aer Arann’s website sells 3,000 flights daily and offers unique feaures including SMS booking confirmation and, best of all, only three clicks to booking. “This is something we paid a huge amount of attention to,” says Colin Lewis, Aer Arann’s head of sales and marketing. When it comes to lookers versus bookers, there is always a huge drop-off rate between the first click and the six or seven steps to completion which most other sites offer. In comparison to 70pc of Aer Lingus flights booked online, Aer Arann’s online booking represents 92pc of its business. No other industry has been impacted more by the arrival of the internet than tourism and travel, says Mark Henry, director for central marketing with Tourism Ireland. “Tourism Ireland has watched this evolution and reflected it in our marketing budget so that online now represents almost a quarter of our entire marketing spend.” While individual businesses are still catching up, nobody can accuse Tourism Ireland of falling behind. The body responsible for brand Ireland wants to set the standard for what Irish tourism can do in the digital arena. Last year, Tourism Ireland joined up with Virtual Dublin – a virtual reality version of the capital city that exists in the 3D online world of Second Life – and this year threw the first ever St Patrick’s Day parade with live music from actual events streamed into Virtual Dublin, as thousands from around the world tuned in. Henry says this is still an experimental area for Tourism Ireland but that it has been well received. However, the body’s €12m online marketing spend is also used in traditional areas such as banner advertising on websites, an area Daly says is still very successful and has great reach. But even with this innovation, Blanchard thinks that with the online world moving as fast as it is, more investment is needed: “We noticed a significant increase in web investments in the past two years, but it is still not enough. “Today, online marketing represents about 25pc of the overall marketing spend of Tourism Ireland. I believe it should be at least 50pc.” Companies like Travel Logic and Touristr are aiming to reach the forgotten in the travel world’s move to online, where the big guys dominate. Daly says it is not good enough to simply be listed online with a third-party booking engine strapped onto your site. The tech-savvy tourist wants narrowed-down results. Another problem is that with more people booking direct, the travel agencies are moving online and the smaller properties now need to have the technological know-how to get listed properly with them. Not a problem, says Blanchard: “It’s not a big investment, and with the right partner a small B&B can set up a website with a booking engine and collaboration tools and be distributed worldwide. “Businesses and tourists can collaborate to increase the Ireland brand. The hospitality industry is well aware of the user-generated content boom, but for some of them, they still don’t know how to tap into it.” Ireland should take inspiration from countries like Switzerland and New Zealand, where tourist authorities have set up social networking platforms and allowed providers to feature their services, he suggests. The key, it seems, for the smaller players in the travel industry is not a huge budget and mass migration to the web but rather mass collaboration and looking to central sites and the individual tourist to promote brand Ireland. “For a small B&B, allowing your web visitors to record and read reviews means people will share their experiences, not only about the room but about the full experience. This is so powerful that web visitors will make up their mind from reading these experiences,” says Blanchard. Sligo surfers are keeping an online eye on the waves Necessity, they say, is the mother of all invention and this is precisely the reason why Graham Glynn started Sligo surfing website, Strandhill Surf Webcam. An IT graduate with a passion for surfing, Glynn often found that by the time he got to the beach, weather conditions weren’t good enough to catch a wave. So along with friend and fellow surfer Philip O’Brien, he invested in a weatherproof webcam and created a site that caters for thousands of tourists from around the world who flock to Sligo for its ideal surfing conditions and who want to keep an eye on the waves. The live webcam site has also turned into an ideal forum for promoting general tourism in Sligo, with local shops, B&Bs and restaurants all advertising with Glynn. “Ireland needs to promote itself more by taking advantage of internet technologies to push niche tourism opportunities,” Glynn says. “Tourists want to come here for our surfing, water sports, golf, hillwalking etc. Their primary search tool is the internet, yet Ireland has not fully grasped the potential of the internet to get tourists here.” © Silicon Republic Ltd 2008 All content copyright 2008, Silicon Republic Ltd — all rights reserved Email: 
editorial@siliconrepublic.com © Silicon Republic Ltd 2008 
