online
{ By Billy Ryle 
    January 13 2015 04:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/lifestyle/first-steps-towards-college-30904929.html }
About 80,000 people will apply to the Central Applications Office (CAO) in 2015 for a place in a third level college. The courses in the CAO Handbook 2015 are categorised as Level 8 (Honours Bachelor Degrees) and Level 7/Level 6 (Ordinary Bachelor Degrees/Higher Certificates).  Every public sector university, college and institute in the country participates in the CAO system. Except for a few private colleges in the CAO, the Department of Education and Skills (DES) pays the tuition fees of eligible students on full-time undergraduate courses. Simply submit a single application to compete for one of the third-level places. The CAO application system is now so straightforward that there is no reason to feel concerned about applying for a third level college place.  Before tackling the CAO application, study the handbook, which contains detailed easy-to-follow information on how to lodge your application. The institutions in the CAO system are listed in alphabetical order by location. All the courses are listed directly under the college title, with 'Level 8' courses being listed separately from 'Level 7 & Level 6' courses. Each course has a code, which you enter on the application. You may apply for up to 10 courses in each of the two categories - listed in order of your preference.    The CAO application process has moved very smoothly from the old paper application to an online application. Almost all applications will be made via "Apply" this year. The online application service will remain open on the CAO website (www.cao.ie) until 5.15pm on February 1. The fee for the online application is €25, if you apply by January 20 and €40 if you apply by the standard closing date of February 1. If you applying online you can pay the fee by a credit/debit card, a pre-paid credit card or an application fee payment form.  The online application is user friendly and easy to follow, particularly as CAO provides an interactive demo to enable you make a trial application. It's a secure and safe way of applying for your courses and it allows you to submit your application from the privacy of your own home. HOW TO APPLY Click on "Apply" to access the CAO online application form. Enter the personal details required as they appear on screen. Tick the section that is relevant to you on the qualifications and assessment summary. In the vast majority of cases, this will be the Irish Leaving Certificate Examination. Register your payment option and confirm your acceptance of the terms and conditions. Next declare, by ticking the box, that all particulars on the form are correct. Secure your CAO application by entering an account password of choice. Click on "proceed with application" to advance to the next step. At this point, take note of your 2015 CAO application number. You will need your application number and your password to log on to "My Application" -  your online CAO application. Continue to complete the personal details section. Then type your course choices onto one or both of the lists.  If you intend to apply for a student grant, indicate this on your CAO online application. CAO will then provide details of your identification, contact, offer and acceptance to the grant authority, SUSI.  If you wish to disclose a disability or specific learning difficulty, tick the appropriate box. Complete the Supplementary Information Form (SIF) and also tick the DARE (Disability Access Route to Education) box and the HEAR (Higher Education Access Route) box if either applies to you. You will be guided to further instructions about completing the DARE or HEAR sections. Once you have completed the CAO form print or save a copy of your receipt of online application. You may also confirm receipt of your application by logging on to the CAO website, www.cao.ie and using the "My Application" option. COURSE CHECK Check your course choices immediately to ensure that they are absolutely correct. Use the online 'change courses' facility on the CAO website to amend or add courses. This facility is free until 31st January 2015. You may also use the online 'change course facility from 5th February to 1st March on payment of an additional processing fee of €10 if you made an error or omission in Restricted-Application Courses or you are a mature applicant who made an error or omission in your courses. All other applicants should use the 'change of mind' option, between 5th May and 1st July, to make any course changes. CHANGE OF MIND After 5th May, you may, if you wish, use the Change of Mind facility to make course changes online at www.cao.ie. There is no fee for using the Change of Mind facility.  Check that your courses have been updated by using the "My Application" facility before 1st July 2015. - Billy Ryle is a Career Guidance Counsellor and freelance writer.   20th January: Apply by 5.15pm to avail of the online discount rate of €25 20th January: Closing date for registration for HPAT-Ireland test for entry to undergraduate medicine 31st January: Closing date for online Change of Course Choices (free) 1st February: 5.15pm on this date is the normal closing date for applications with a standard fee of €40 5th February: An applicant, who made an error or omission in Restricted Application Courses or mature applicants who made an error or omission in their courses, may use the online Change Course facility  28th February: HPAT-Ireland test for entry to undergraduate medicine 1st March: submit completed online HEAR/DARE forms by 5.15pm. 1st April: HEAR/DARE documentation must arrive in CAO by 5.15pm. 1st May: Late applications will be accepted by the  CAO  up to 5.15pm.   5th May: You may register a change of course choices online at www.cao.ie  31st May: Before the end of May, you will be sent a Statement of Application Record to enable you to verify that your details have been recorded accurately  1st July: Course choices and preferences may be changed up to 5.15pm on this date  Early July: Round A: Offers are issued to deferred applicants, mature applicants and to those who need to make visa arrangements.  Early August: Round Zero: Offers are issued to certain non-standard categories of applicants such as deferred and Access applicants.  17th August: Round One: the issue of the main body of offers takes place a few days after the Leaving Certificate Examination results become available 27th August: Round Two: a second round of offers will be issued on this date to fill any remaining vacancies. Thereafter, offers will be issued as necessary until the end of October to fill any vacancies, which may arise Kerryman 
