online
{ Richard Curran 
    November 19 2014 07:01 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/irish-universities-must-learn-the-valuable-lessons-of-an-online-age-30758590.html }
The media industry is far from the only sector around the world grappling with the financial challenges posed by access to material for free online. Universities are quite rattled about what to do with the internet.  I remember as a child in the 1970s waking up early in the morning and putting on BBC2 television. There weren't any children's channels, but there were guys with huge beards writing up massive mathematical equations on boards as part of the Open University programming. It all seemed quite intimidating and, at the age of eight, put me off maths for life. But it was in theory at least, opening up the knowledge contained in the heads of maths boffins, to anybody who had a TV. If television seemed like an obvious distribution channel for learning over 35 years ago, then the internet is a multiple of that. Universities initially dabbled in providing online courses. Then along came Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs). These are entire courses put up on the internet and they are free. Immediately, universities were divided on the issue. On the positive side they represented an enormous educational revolution, by literally knocking down the walls of privileged access to university. A sheep farmer in Romania could take a Harvard Mooc, if he had the interest, the language skills and the internet. Equally, a business executive, already with an MBA, could take a short five-week specialist course on forensic computing. A Leaving Cert student, interested in philosophy but unsure about pursuing it in college, could take a short course on Soren Kierkegaard and existentialism. More strikingly, Harvard and MIT in the United States jumped in. Using platforms set up by Coursera, EdX an Udacity, around three million people signed up for courses. In September 2013 the Open University launched FuturLearn which offers free courses through many British universities. Edinburgh University signed up with Coursera's partnership which has 13 universities. Edinburgh had already run 50 online masters degrees and it kicking on by experimenting with Moocs. The Mooc looked like becoming the ultimate disruptive innovation in education. What should Irish universities do? If they develop online education expertise they can offer online courses and charge €8,000 to €10,000 per year for them. These are Master's courses with a full Irish university degree at the end of it. This is a huge potential revenue stream. UCD already has a raft of online courses, including Master of Science (Management), MSc in Forensic Computing and Cybercrime Investigation or a graduate certificate in animal medicine. You can see from the topics, that these are specifically aimed at target audiences, where the university knows there is a specialist group who would want to build on their existing qualifications. It makes sense. Just last week, a newspaper report said that TCD was setting up a new subsidiary company which would look to provide 20 online course for 1,000 students, primarily in postgraduate and continuous professional development. These are good money spinners. They are not Moocs. The Mooc is either free or almost free. They don't necessarily lead to a university-backed degree, but open up learning and personal improvement to millions. They cost money to produce and serve two purposes; bringing education to people who want it and need it; and they also act as a marketing tool for the big universities. Problems emerging with Moocs include the fact that millions sign up for them, but most don't complete them. This may have to do with the level at which they are pitched or simple human nature. Instead of taking a newspaper for free that you don't really want, you take a course for free, that you don't really want either. But they are still in their infancy. There is enormous potential for Moocs in Africa, India, China or other emerging economies. There is something genuinely revolutionary about having free access to what universities have to offer. But problems exist. Many of those taking them, are not sheep farmers in Romania, but highly educated Americans who want to brush up on something or improve their CV for free. This is no bad thing in itself, but not quite the revolution many had hoped for. Irish universities have probably been too quick to downplay the Mooc. They are cash-strapped and increasingly dependent on non-state and commercial or private funding to operate. They probably see the idea of giving away their knowledge for free, as undermining their own business models and something that is easy for super wealthy institutions like Harvard to do. Some Moocs have been offered. Nearly 14,000 people registered for Trinity College's first free online history course. It promised to give students around the world a "Trinity education experience". This was a good piece of clever marketing which also opened up Irish history to a wider audience. Doing it on a big scale would be costly as a marketing experiment. However, Irish universities shouldn't downplay the Mooc as something that only applies to major league global educational players. It would be wrong to think that Moocs will completely change the way university education is delivered. They are still in their infancy in terms of developing the quality of the product, presentation and interaction among students. Also, how do you get the best research minds on campus to do extra work, for free, by developing new courses that will be given away for free? Equally, the best research minds on campus might not deliver the best online course. Sometimes it requires a different set of skills. After watching how the online education marketplace is evolving in the US, the UK and elsewhere, Irish universities are moving into that space more aggressively now. Hibernia College already offers many online courses, as a private sector venture. University of Limerick, DCU and others are all offering paid for online degree courses. There is a palpable sigh of relief in some corners of the education elite that Moocs might not be the revolution that many thought a few years ago. But Irish universities might be wrong to exclude them from their future offering. Just 2pc of Irish third level students do part of their course online. In the US the figure is close to 30pc. Online expansion will also trigger industrial relations issues among academic staff. Traditional lecture attendance, paid for online courses and free Moocs should all have a part to play in future third level education. Indo Business 
