{ By This Is Money   Published:  08:19, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8037067/FTSE-LIVE-Coronavirus-concerns-cause-stocks-plummet-Sales-rise-Primark-owner-ABF.html }
Investors worldwide appear spooked at the continuing spread of the coronavirus throughout Asia and Europe - and the stock markets reflected that fear today.  The FTSE 100 has dropped more than 3 per cent, with European markets also recording steep falls.  Italy's FTSEMIB fell 5.4 per cent, while Germany's DAX and France's CAC 40 dropped 4 per cent.  Coronavirus fears also sent oil prices lower, with Brent Crude shedding nearly $3 - or a fall of 5 per cent - to $55.58 a barrel. The pound was also in the red, falling by 0.2 per cent against the dollar and 0.4 per cent against the euro. But gold benefited from the situation, with the price of the precious metal rising more than 2 per cent to its highest in seven years. Gold is seen as a safe haven asset.   In company news, Primark owner Associated British Foods said Primark sales in the first half of the financial year were 4.2 per cent higher than the same period last year, as it was boosted by recent site expansions. But it warned of possible disruption to its Chinese supply chain if the coronavirus outbreak continues. Property firms Countrywide and LSL Property Services have announced they are talking over a possible merger. The proposed deal could make the combined firm the largest estate agency in the country. Elsewhere, taxpayers picked up the bill for a wave of insolvencies last year, with the cost of payouts to redundant staff jumping by 16 per cent to £346.1million. This was the highest payout in seven years. Huawei has unveiled a new version of its foldable smartphone - the first that will be released outside of mainland China. The Mate Xs is the Chinese tech firm's second folding phone after the Mate X, which launched last year. Like its predecessor, the Mate Xs has a screen that wraps around the outside of the device, which can be opened out to become an eight-inch tablet-sized display. Rifling through a bag to find a debit card could soon be a thing of the past for commuters. Technology being developed by payment giant Mastercard would allow travellers to pay simply by walking up to a turnstile. The US company is working on systems which will identify customers by examining their physical characteristics and how they walk.  Lucy White has the story... Higher digital advertising revenue and tight cost control helped the Daily Mirror owner Reach plc to swing back into profit last year.   Stronger digital revenue also allowed them to offset a moderate loss in income last year. Revenues at the company, which also owns the Daily Express, fell 3 per cent to £702.5million in 2019 from £723.9million a year earlier. The fall was largely down to a decline in print revenue, which dropped by 7.9 per cent on a like-for-like basis, as the long-term fall in print circulation continued. Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are certainly have plenty of money in the bank, but an expert has predicted the couple could reach the wealthiest echelon's of UK society after Megxit.   Robert Watts who is the compiler of The Sunday Times Rich List, has examined the Duke, 35, and Duchess, 38, of Sussex's potential to join the listing, which features those who have an extensive fortunes made up of property, finances, land, shares and publicly quoted companies. 'You can't underestimate the international appeal of being a royal - and the appeal is even bigger in the US, Canada and the rest of the world,' the London-based financial journalist told Hello! magazine. An interactive map reveals the scale of Britain's electric vehicle (EV) charging points and shows how the infrastructure varies around the country, with London lagging behind other cities.  London came bottom of a list of ten cities when measuring the percentage of its charging locations that put out more than 43kW of power when plugged in.  This amount of power is the qualifying criteria a charging station must meet in order to be classified as 'rapid charge', according to the firm that collected the data.  Italy has confirmed 219 cases of the virus, by far the largest number outside China, Japan and South Korea.     In 2012, the phrase 'Chipping Norton Set' was included in Brewer's Dictionary Of Phrase And Fable, and anyone interested in this influential assortment of politicians, musicians, media types and movers-and-shakers based in the Cotswolds should head straight for the village of Kingham. At the bar of the lovely Kingham Plough, rumours abound of members of the set who have popped in recently: former Prime Minister David Cameron and wife Samantha, The Grand Tour's Jeremy Clarkson and Great British Bake Off judge Prue Leith. Tens of thousands of people have flocked to tourist attractions across China after they re-opened their doors despite the coronavirus outbreak. Most of the country's scenic spots have closed for nearly a month to prevent the spread of the virus, but major destinations are gradually resuming business this week. Multiple videos show large crowds of people visiting popular sites in the provinces of Jiangxi, Zhejiang and Nanning. Disney+ has thrown down the gauntlet in a bid to undercut UK competitors Netflix and Amazon Prime with its introductory offer of £4.17-per-month.  Brits will be able to enjoy Star Wars, Marvel, and Pixar films - as well as original series - on Disney+ at a discounted £49.99-per-year ahead of its March 24 launch.  The entertainment giant had previously announced that Disney+ would be priced at £59.99-per-year, totalling £5.99-per-month, in the UK. An independent transport watchdog has launched a new campaign to encourage motorists to report terrible road signage on major roads and motorways. The number of signs being hidden by overgrown bushes, missing large sections due to damage or targeted scrap metal theft, or simply providing confusing instructions are littering busy routes, according to Transport Focus. It has set up a new dedicated 'Sort My Sign' website where motorists can report poor quality signage on trunk roads that will be used to lobby the government to increase funds to improve the quality of roadside furniture. France lashed out at Boris Johnson's 'blackmail' tactics today as it warned the EU will not be bounced into a quick trade deal. As the two sides finalise their plans for a bitter battle over post-Brexit terms, the French minister for Europe, Amelie de Montchalin, said the PM could not force the bloc to accept an agreement 'at any cost'. The blunt rebuke came ahead of ministers from the remaining 27 EU states meeting in Brussels tomorrow to agree the negotiating mandate for Michel Barnier. Struggling estate agency group Countrywide has announced it is in talks over a possible merger with LSL Property Services. A merger between the two businesses would create the UK's biggest estate agency, with a combined value of around £470million, though it could potentially result in significant job losses as a result of cost-cutting.  The announcement comes after a testing few years for Countrywide, which has seen its share price slump on the back of mounting losses. The feared activist investor who has taken on hospitals operator NMC Health – a member of the prestigious FTSE 100 – and litigation finance firm Burford Capital has set out plans to expand and target more UK companies. In his most open interview to date, Carson Block, the founder of US short-selling firm Muddy Waters, reveals how his tough upbringing shaped him as a thick-skinned investor. He speaks to The Mail on Sunday's Jamie Nimmo - read the full story below... As head of JP Morgan's private bank, Staley came to know Epstein well and the pair stayed in touch until 2015 – seven years after Epstein was convicted of soliciting a child for prostitution. Primark owner Associated British Foods has warned it may have to ramp up production of its clothes in regions outside China if delays to factory production are prolonged due to the coronavirus epidemic.   The fast-fashion giant, which sources 'a broad assortment' of products from China, said that for now it is unaffected by the outbreak thanks to stockpiling ahead of the Chinese New Year, which means it has enough stock to get it through the summer months. However, it warned it may have to increase production in other countries outside China to mitigate the impact of coronavirus disruption on Chinese supply chains. Full story below... Motorists are being targeted by fraudsters using a range of different scam tactics in a bid to trick them into handing over money. That's according to a fresh warning by the DVLA today, which has provided examples of scams it has been alerted to and traced in recent months. There has been a 20 per cent rise in fraud attempts handed to the DVLA, with 1,538 reports made to agency in the last three months of 2019, new figures show.  The FTSE 100 has plunged over 3 per cent in the early stages of trading on Monday after a jump in coronavirus cases outside of China spooked investors around the world. Airlines and mining companies were among the worst hit as markets took fright at the potential impact of the continuing crisis on travel.  Three of Britain's largest airlines had the largest fall on the FTSE 100 stock market this morning as the Covid-19 outbreak continues to spread.  The Chancellor's Budget plans could see spending rise above £1trillion for the first time. An analysis by the Resolution Foundation suggests Boris Johnson will splurge more than Tony Blair did during his decade in power. According to a report by the thinktank, total Government expenditure is set to rise at the Budget to 40 per cent of gross domestic product, a figure higher than at any point during Mr Blair's tenure. The government is expected to row back on plans to slash pension tax relief for higher earners amid fears of a backbench Tory rebellion. Chancellor Rishi Sunak is understood to have backed down from wrapping the policy into next month's budget after his own MPs lined up to condemn it. The proposal to cut pension tax relief from 40 to 20 per cent was mooted as a £10billion-a-year revenue stream to help pay for Boris Johnson's 'leveling up' agenda. British business supplies distributor Bunzl reported a 2.4 per cent rise in annual profit on Monday benefiting from the acquisitions it made last year, although growth in organic revenue slowed in its largest market North America. The company, which supplies a range of products from food packaging to face masks, said its adjusted pretax profit rose to £579.1million, up 2.4 per cent at a constant currency rates on a consistent IAS 17 basis. Investors worldwide appear spooked at the continuing spread of the coronavirus throughout Asia and Europe - and the stock markets are likely to reflect that fear when trading begins on Monday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average future plummeted by 400 points early on Monday morning, which means that the market is likely to open with a steep drop once the opening bell rings on Wall Street. S&P 500 futures also dropped 1.3 per cent while the Nasdaq futures fell 1.8 per cent. Shares skidded in Asia on Monday after reports of a surge in new virus cases outside China.    
