stocks
{ By Reuters   Published:  04:38, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/reuters/article-8036711/GRAINS-Wheat-drops-4th-session-rapid-virus-spread-rattles-markets.html }
By Naveen Thukral SINGAPORE, Feb 24 (Reuters) - Chicago wheat futures slid for a fourth consecutive session on Monday while soybeans eased as fears over the rapid spread of the coronavirus outbreak beyond China dragged down commodities and shares. Corn extended losses into a fourth session, hitting its lowest since mid-December. "The Covid-19 virus remains the focus of the wider world. With more cases in more places, the virus continues to spread unfortunately," said Tobin Gorey, director of agricultural strategy, Commonwealth Bank of Australia. "A stronger U.S. dollar will not help matters either," he added, referring to the wheat market. The most active wheat contract on the Chicago Board Of Trade was down 1.5% to $5.44 a bushel by 0402 GMT, near the session low of $5.43 a bushel - the weakest since Feb. 14. Soybeans lost 0.8% to $8.83-1/4 a bushel, while corn was down 0.6% to $3.74-3/4 a bushel, after dropping to its lowest since Dec. 12 at $3.74 a bushel. Fears mounted that the coronavirus outbreak in China will grow into a pandemic with disruptive and deadly consequences for countries around the world, after sharp rises in infections in South Korea, Italy and Iran. The surge of infections outside mainland China triggered steep falls in Asian shares and Wall Street stock futures as investors fled to safe havens such as gold. Oil prices tumbled and the Korean won fell to its lowest since August. The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) at its annual Outlook Forum projected domestic soybean ending stocks for the 2020/21 marketing year would fall to a four-year low. The USDA said on Friday that weekly export sales of corn totalled 1.25 million tonnes, just above the higher end of market forecasts that ranged from 700,000 tonnes to 1.2 million tonnes. Last week, the USDA pegged U.S. corn crop at 15.5 billion bushels, which would cause ending stocks to balloon to 2.637 billion bushels. If realised, it would be the largest stockpile since 1988. Large speculators trimmed their net short position in CBOT corn futures in the week to Feb. 18, regulatory data released on Friday showed. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission's weekly commitments of traders report also showed that non-commercial traders, a category that includes hedge funds, raised their net long position in CBOT wheat and trimmed their net short position in soybeans. (Reporting by Naveen Thukral; Editing by Subhranshu Sahu) 
