{ By Caleb Taylor For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  03:07, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8033743/Pia-Miller-36-keeps-glam-visits-wellness-store-Sydney.html }
She's dating one of America's top Hollywood talent agents, Patrick Whitesell, 55. So it's no wonder Home And Away star Pia Miller, 36, has a taste for the finer things in life.  On Friday, the 36-year-old was spotted wearing thousands of dollars worth of accessories as she went shopping in Sydney's Marrickville.   The Chilean-born beauty wore a pair of Gucci slides worth over $1,000, a $50,000 Rolex and a pair of designer sunglasses.  She also slung a designer handbag decorated with a vintage-look scarf over her shoulder.  She dressed down her designer accessories by wearing a loose-fitting white T-shirt and a pair of high-waisted blue jeans.  Pia looked positively glowing during her shopping expedition, as she was spotted leaving a wellness store which stocks an extensive range of products for new mothers and children.  After the shopping trip, Pia was later seen walking to her black Range Rover.    Pia is currently enjoying a blossoming romance with Hollywood talent agent Patrick Whitesell.  The couple only just returned from a getaway in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico.  The pair looked more loved-up than ever in photos shared by the actress to Instagram earlier this week.    In the snaps, which she captioned simply with the word 'happy', Pia cuddled up to Patrick as they embraced alongside a pool with a stunning sea view.  Appearing to be at a luxury resort, the pair could not keep their hands off one another.  Pia looked relaxed in a simple white T-shirt and black shorts worn with sneakers, her brunette hair down. Patrick meanwhile opted for a chic and simple ensemble consisting of a crisp white T-shirt, blue jeans, sneakers and sunglasses.  Earlier this month, the Australian actress attended The Academy Awards in Los Angeles on the arm of her dashing American beau.   Clearly excited to be in attendance at this year's star-studded awards show, Pia shared a video of herself on the red carpet with Patrick.    Pia was first linked to the Hollywood power agent in August last year, following her split with her longtime fiancé, Tyson Mullane, 31, in April. The couple made their public debut at a Halloween party in Los Angeles in October, amid reports they started dating back in May.  She finally made their relationship Instagram official on Christmas Eve, sharing a loved-up photo with him outside of the Louvre in Paris, and captioning it 'P²'.     
