stocks
{ By Andrew Court For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:45, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8029171/Etsy-stores-selling-Make-Kids-Great-spanking-paddles-spark-outrage.html }
Several Etsy stores are sparking outrage for selling wooden spanking paddles with the words 'Make Kids Great Again' carved into them.  The handmade objects - which play on Donald Trump's 2016 campaign slogan 'Make America Great Again' - have been sold by several vendors since September.  But while many have praised the paddles as examples of excellent craftsmanship, others are accusing the sellers of promoting child abuse.   One aggrieved critic took to Twitter to share a picture of one of the paddles and wrote: 'So here is a paddle for whipping kids. It says 'Make Kids Great Again'. With conservatives, even child abuse is marketable.'  Others responded that the paddles were 'disgusting', 'gross' and 'twisted'.  Etsy store MuricaWoodworks has sold several of the controversial paddles, and even offers personalized engraving.  A product description on the Etsy page reads: 'The best way to get the country in shape again is with our MAKE KIDS GREAT AGAIN Wood Carved Paddle! The paddle is made from solid hard maple with a lights stain and a polyurethane coat. If you want to personalize your paddle, we can add your own custom text'.  Each paddle initially retailed for $55, but the seller is now slashing prices in defiance of critics.  'With all the news coverage I have been getting harassing messages and emails on this product. This is not an endorsement, This is not a political statement, This is a product. With that said WE DO NOT CONDONE ANY SORT OF CHILD ABUSE. We are offering a 15% off each paddle right! I want to sell as many as I can now, Thank the people sending me nasty messages,' the owner of MuricaWoodworks wrote on his Etsy page.  Meanwhile,  Larry Delph of Florida, who runs the Etsy store Gruntflags, also stocks the paddles - but says they are intended to be nothing more than decorative items.  'It's just some artwork to hang on the wall, that has a statement,' he told McClatchy News.  'I think that statement is the same as any other parents since the beginning of time. 'Raise my kid to be better than me.'  Spanking children - particularly with objects - has fallen out of favor in recent decades. In 2018, the American Academy of Pediatrics warned parents against the practice, calling it 'ineffective and harmful'.  That sentiment was echoed by another Twitter user, who wrote to design store, DNA Dimension: 'I just saw your "Make Kids Great Again" paddle on Twitter. It is not clever, & it isn't funny. Millions of kids are abused; beaten under the guise of "discipline" by parents & caregivers. Promoting child abuse is the thing you want your business to be famous for?' However, others are expressing the opposite view and are vehemently defending the items - and the practice of spanking children.  'Executing controlled corporal punishment isn't violence against a child!!! I got my butt paddled regularly. I deserved it for bad behavior. I'm a healthy, mentally stable, productive member of society, who is not psychologically warped or prone to violence,' one supporter wrote, according to KUTV.  
