stocks
{ By Annabel Grossman For Dailymail.com   Published:  23:00, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8005507/Our-picks-Nordstroms-winter-sale.html }
We always have an eye out when a Nordstrom sale drops, as the retailer often offers impressive discounts on everything from designer handbags to boutique beauty. And this winter sale is no exception. With a little bit of digging, we've unearthed deals that include reduced cashmere sweaters, 40 per cent off Vince Camuto booties and steep discounts on cold weather wear. The sale runs until February 23, but some discounts are for a limited time only or while stocks last so it's worth snapping them up early if you don't want to miss out. BlankNYC Record Breaker Faux Leather Moto Jacket, $48.98-$58.80 (up to 40% off) This super-soft faux leather jacket from BlankNYC is perfect for spring. It has a silky lining and is nicely fitted with a slightly cropped style, which makes it perfect for slipping on over a dress or high-waisted jeans.  CLICK TO BUY   Halogen Rib Knit Cashmere Gloves, (40% off)  These pure cashmere gloves are beautifully soft and feature rib-knit cuffs to keep out the wind, so they're ideal for keeping hands cozy. However, it's worth noting that they run a little large, so they might not be the best option for those with small hands.  CLICK TO BUY  Vince Camuto Grasem Pointed Toe Western Boot, $59.98–$89.90 (up to 40% off) Western-style print booties have been everywhere through fall and winter, so if you don't yet own a pair now's the time to snap one up. These Vince Camuto ones are discounted in a number of colors, and they feature a chunky heel so are easy to walk in.  CLICK TO BUY    Natori Feathers Underwire Contour Bra, $40.80 (40% off)  Natori bras are both very pretty and incredibly comfortable, so it always catches our eye when they're on sale. This underwired lightly lined one is perfect for everyday wear, and is currently available in the sale in the Lakefront blue color for bust sizes D, DD and DDD. CLICK TO BUY  Same Edelman Faux Fur Trim Short Parka, $91.98 (60% off)  It's rare to get a high quality Parka for as price like this so even though spring is just around the corner, this is a solid investment for next winter. The soft fleece hood with a faux fur trim is removable, so it can keep you cozy in winter and then be zipped off when the weather starts to warm up. CLICK TO BUY  1901 Cashmere Cable Sweater, $77.40 (40% off) You can't go wrong with a classic cable knit sweater, even more so when it's made of cashmere. This one from 1901 is available at the reduced price in a range of colors including Red Chinoise, Pink Chintz, and Evergreen, as well as this gorgeous Oatmeal pictured.  CLICK TO BUY Kate Spade Large Crossbody Bag, $154.80 (40% off) This Kate Spade purse is larger than most crossbody bags, which means that there's plenty of space for all your belongings, as well as two separate sections. It can either be slung over your shoulder as a crossbody bag or you can remove the strap and carry it as an extra-large clutch. CLICK TO BUY  The North Face Millerton Hooded Jacket, $66 (40% off) This DryVent jacket from The North Face is ideal for chilly spring weather as it's windproof and water resistant but also lightweight and breathable. It's durable enough to take hiking but stylish enough to wear to work in the city to protect yourself from spring showers. CLICK TO BUY  Le Creuset 2 3/4 Quart Stoneware Casserole Dish, $95 (20% off) There are a ton of discounts on Le Creuset cookware on Nordstrom right now, and this stoneware casserole dish for less than $100 is one of the best deals we've seen. It's ideal for day-to-day use and will look gorgeous sitting on your kitchen table too. CLICK TO BUY  Kopari Beauty Besties Set, $30 (30% off)  If you've never tried Kopari's natural beauty products before, this set is a great way to test out some of the brand's bestsellers. It contains a mini deodorant, a mini melt, a mini face cream and a mini lip gloss, all in coconut. The set is reduced from $40 but has a $58 value, so it is a real bargain at just $30.  CLICK TO BUY  DailyMail.com may earn commissions on sales from the links on this page.  
