stocks
{ By Associated Press   Published:  11:27, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8020209/10-Things-Know-Today--19-February-2020.html }
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today: 1. AP: BARR MULLS RESIGNATION The attorney general tells people close to him he´s considering quitting his post after Trump wouldn´t heed his warning to stop tweeting about Justice Department cases, an administration official tells the AP. 2. ROD BLAGOJEVICH WALKS FREE The former Illinois governor is back in his Chicago home after being released from prison after Trump cut short his 14-year sentence for political corruption. 3. `WE JUST WANT TO CELEBRATE´ Hundreds of passengers begin leaving the Diamond Princess cruise ship in Japan after the end of a much-criticized, two-week quarantine that failed to stop the spread of a new virus. 4. WHERE THERE WAS A SYMBOLIC FLIGHT AMID WAR A commercial flight from Damascus carrying Syrian officials and journalists lands in Aleppo for the first time in years, while nearby, a government onslaught has displaced more than 900,000 civilians in the northwest. 5. INTO THE HEAT OF DEBATE BATTLE IN VEGAS The first major test of billionaire Mike Bloomberg's presidential campaign plays out in the city of high rollers when he faces questions and sharp elbows from other candidates on the stage for the first time. FILE - In this Jan. 22, 2020, file photo, Attorney General William Barr arrives for an ceremony at the Department of Justice in Washington, to announce the establishment of the Presidential Commission on Law Enforcement and the Administration of Justice, and its commissioners. Barr has told people close to him he's considering quitting his post after President Donald Trump wouldn't heed his warning to stop tweeting about Justice Department cases. (AP Photo/Michael A. McCoy, File) 6. `WHEN MONEY DOESN´T COME, PEOPLE DIE´ As Yemenis go hungry, many food deliveries have been blocked as Houthi rebels demand the U.N. give them a cut of the billions of dollars in international aid money, AP learns. 7. YEMEN DRONES LINKED TO IRAN A small instrument within drones that targeted the heart of Saudi Arabia's oil industry and those in the arsenal of Yemen's Houthi rebels match components recovered in downed Iranian drones, reports say. 8. EX-AUSTRALIAN LEADER DISCLOSES FLIGHT 370 THEORY Tony Abbott claims top Malaysian government officials suspected the vanishing of the Malaysian Airlines jetliner almost six years ago was a mass murder-suicide by the pilot. 9. ROBERT DURST BEING TRIED FOR OLD MURDER The eccentric real estate heir, now 76, is accused of fatally shooting his best friend in 2000 to keep her silent about the disappearance and presumed 1982 killing of his wife. 10. `NOW IS JUST THE RIGHT TIME´ Eight years after the singer´s death, a holographic Whitney Houston will appear on a concert stage again with a European tour and U.S. dates expected to follow. A passenger disembarked from the quarantined Diamond Princess cruise ship peeks out of a bus window Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020, in Yokohama, near Tokyo. Hundreds of passengers began leaving the cruise ship Wednesday after the end of a much-criticized, two-week quarantine that failed to stop the spread of a new virus among passengers and crew. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong) A person walks across the stage during setup for the Nevada Democratic presidential debate Tuesday, Feb. 18, 2020, in Las Vegas. (AP Photo/John Locher) Trader Glenn Kessler works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, Tuesday, Feb. 18, 2020. U.S. stocks slipped in early trading Tuesday after technology giant Apple became the most well-known company to warn of a financial hit from the virus outbreak in China. (AP Photo/Richard Drew) Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., speaks during a campaign event at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Tuesday, Feb. 18, 2020, in Las Vegas. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) FILE - In this Oct. 1, 2018, file photo, a severely malnourished boy rests on a hospital bed at the Aslam Health Center, Hajjah, Yemen. Houthi rebels in Yemen have blocked half of the United Nations' aid delivery programs in the war-torn country - a strong-arm tactic to force the agency to give them greater control over the massive humanitarian campaign, along with a cut of billions of dollars in foreign assistance, according to aid officials and internal documents obtained by The Associated Press. (AP Photo/Hani Mohammed, File) Graciela Sosa and husband her Silvino Baez lament the violent death of their son Fernando Baez Sosa, outside Congress where people gathered to demand justice one month after the death of the 18-year-old, in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Tuesday, Feb. 18, 2020. According to an attorney on the case, Baez Sosa was beaten to death by a group rugby players in the coastal city of Villa Gesell in the Buenos Aires province in eastern Argentina. (AP Photo/Natacha Pisarenko) Women shout during a protest against gender violence outside the National Palace that includes the presidential office and residence, in Mexico City, Tuesday, Feb. 18, 2020. The killing of a 7-year-old girl on the southern outskirts of Mexico City has stoked rising anger over the brutal slayings of women, including one found stabbed to death and skinned earlier this month. (AP Photo/Eduardo Verdugo) Atletico Madrid's Koke, left, and Liverpool's Trent Alexander-Arnold fight for the ball during a 1st leg, round of 16, of the Champions League soccer match between Atletico Madrid and Liverpool at the Wanda Metropolitano stadium in Madrid, Tuesday, Feb. 18, 2020. (AP Photo/Manu Fernandez) China's Luo Yan, the only person in Sri Lanka who had earlier tested positive for the new virus waves to hospital staff, before she departs her isolation room at the National Institute of Infectious Diseases in Colombo, Sri Lanka, Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020. Sri Lankan health officials said Luo Yan was discharged after she fully recovered. (AP Photo/Eranga Jayawardena) 
