stocks
{ By Ryan Fahey For Mailonline   Published:  08:55, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8011911/Armed-gang-steal-TOILET-ROLLS-Hong-Kong.html }
A gang of knife-wielding men jumped a delivery driver in Hong Kong and stole hundreds of toilet rolls, police said Monday, in a city wracked by shortages caused by coronavirus panic-buying.  Toilet rolls have become hot property in the densely packed business hub, despite government assurances that supplies remain unaffected by the virus outbreak. Supermarkets have found themselves unable to restock quickly enough, leading to sometimes lengthy queues and shelves wiped clean within moments of opening. There has also been a run on staples such as rice and pasta, as well as hand sanitiser and other cleaning items. Police said a truck driver was held up early Monday by three men outside a supermarket in Mong Kok, a working-class district with a history of 'triad' organised crime gangs. 'A delivery man was threatened by three knife-wielding men who took toilet paper worth more than HK$1,000 (£90),' a police spokesman said. A police source said the missing rolls were later recovered and two suspects were arrested on scene although it was not clear if they were directly involved in the armed robbery. Footage from Now TV showed police investigators standing around multiple crates of toilet roll outside a Wellcome supermarket. One of the crates was only half stacked. Hong Kongers reacted with a mixture of bafflement and merriment to the heist. One woman passing by the scene of the crime who was interviewed by local TV station iCable quipped: 'I'd steal face masks, but not toilet roll.' The city, which has 58 confirmed coronavirus cases, is currently experiencing a genuine shortage of face masks. The hysteria that has swept through Hong Kong since the coronavirus outbreak exploded on mainland China is partly fuelled by the city's tragic recent history of confronting a deadly disease. In 2003, some 299 Hong Kongers died of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), an outbreak that began on the mainland but was initially covered up by Beijing - action that left a lasting legacy of distrust towards the authorities on public health issues. The new coronavirus outbreak also comes at a time when the city's pro-Beijing leadership has historic low approval ratings after refusing to bow to months of angry pro-democracy protests last year. Authorities have blamed online rumours for the panic-buying and say supplies of food and household goods remain stable. But the panic-buying has itself created shortages in one of the world's most densely populated cities where supermarkets and pharmacies have limited floor space. Photos posted online have shown some people proudly stuffing their cramped city apartments with packets of hoarded toilet rolls. On Sunday, the head of the city's Consumer Council warned people not to stockpile toilet rolls in their flats as they were prone to mould in the notoriously humid climate. She also reiterated that there were ample stocks of paper. Supermarket chain Wellcome called Monday's robbery a 'senseless act', and called on people not to bulk buy or hoard toilet roll. 'We want to emphasize that we have sufficient toilet roll supply to meet demand,' it said in a statement. 'The temporary shortage was caused by the sudden and unusual surge in demand.' In a popular Catholic church in the Philippines, nearly half of the pews were empty for Sunday Mass.  The few hundred worshippers who showed up were asked to refrain from shaking others' hands or holding them during prayers to prevent the spread of the virus that started in China. In Hong Kong, Cardinal John Hon Tong, wearing a mask, announced the suspension of public Masses for two weeks and urged churchgoers to instead watch them online. Buddhist temples, Christian churches and Muslim mosques have been ordered closed since 29 January in mainland China, where the new coronavirus strain was first detected in the central city of Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak.  Mosques have canceled weekly Friday prayers since January under an order to avoid 'collective religious activities.' Religious leaders should encourage Muslims to 'trust the party' and avoid crowds, the Communist Party-controlled body that oversees China's officially authorized mosques said in a statement. The restrictions and dwindling crowds in religiously diverse places of worship underscore the extent of the scare over the outbreak that has permeated many aspects of life in the hard-hit Asian region. The virus has killed more than 1,500 people and infected more than 67,000 others, mostly in China, where several cities that are home to more than 60 million people have been placed under lockdown in an unprecedented effort to contain the disease. All but three of the deaths have been in China. Japan, Hong Kong and the Philippines have reported one fatality each.      
