stocks
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  00:19, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8011001/Qld-depth-tested-Sheffield-Shield.html }
Queensland quick Mark Steketee admits the Bulls' depth will be tested in their next Sheffield Shield clash against Victoria after losing some of their biggest names to Australia A duty. Queensland were on cloud nine after clinching a 10-wicket win over Tasmania within three days at the Gabba on Sunday, leapfrogging Western Australia into second spot on the ladder. However the Bulls appear to have little time to savour the thumping victory ahead of their next clash with Victoria in Brisbane starting on February 24. They will be forced to dig deep into their squad to cover the loss of Steketee, fellow quick Michael Neser, skipper Usman Khawaja and leggie Mitchell Swepson who will play in Australia A's four-day, day-night match against England Lions starting at the MCG on February 22. Queensland will also be without former Test opener Matthew Renshaw who has been convinced to take a break from cricket after missing out on selection in the Tigers clash following a lean run. Steketee predicts the likes of 20-year-old batsman Nathan McSweeney and fringe quicks Xavier Bartlett and Blake Edwards will step up for Queensland but admits they face a "learning curve" against the Vics. "I dare say it will be a test of depth," he said of the upcoming Shield game. "But we have given some of the younger guys a bit of a run earlier in the season. "And some of those younger guys are starting to step up which is nice to see. "It will be a test, no doubt about it. They should be fine (but) it will be a nice learning curve." Queensland's bowling stocks also boast Billy Stanlake and Brendan Doggett who are waiting in the wings ahead of the Victoria clash. Steketee warmed up for Australia A duty with 5-75 against Tasmania but was wayward at times as he struggled to control the Dukes ball on a green Gabba deck. The 26-year-old faces another challenge when he is thrown a pink Kookaburra against the England Lions. "It's nice to be recognised (with Australia A selection)," Steketee said. "It probably didn't come out as well as I would have liked (against Tasmania). "The Dukes ball is hard to control but it's no excuse." Steketee has 25 Shield wickets at 21.64 this season, three behind the competition's leading wicket taker Jackson Bird of Tasmania. 
