{ By Reuters   Published:  11:57, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/reuters/article-7991071/GRAINS-Soybeans-China-buying-hopes-USDA-report-awaited.html }
By Michael Hogan HAMBURG, Feb 11 (Reuters) - U.S. soybean futures rose for a seventh consecutive session on Tuesday as fears that the coronavirus outbreak in China could prevent Beijing meeting its commitment to buy more U.S. supplies faded. Corn and wheat fell as the market drifted ahead of closely-watched world supply and demand estimates from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) due later on Tuesday. The Chicago Board of Trade most active soybean contract was up 0.1% at $8.85-3/4 a bushel at 1140 GMT. Corn fell 0.2% to $3.80-3/4 a bushel and wheat fell 0.5% to $5.48-3/4 a bushel. Analysts said China's commitment to buy U.S. soybeans and other farm products under the Phase One trade deal between the two countries continued to drive gains, though the outbreak of coronavirus still hung over the market. "Soybean markets are still assessing whether the coronavirus will hinder new Chinese purchases," said Matt Ammermann, commodity risk manager with INTL FCStone. "The fear assessment for soybeans is whether the coronavirus will cause demand destruction in China or whether concerns about inflation will generate more purchases of soybeans and other foods from the U.S." Chinese President Xi Jinping told U.S. President Donald Trump that China would meet its Phase 1 trade deal purchasing targets despite delays linked to the coronavirus. "Since the Phase One deal nothing has happened, although China has purchased wheat from Europe and elsewhere," Ammermann noted. "Perhaps we are now seeing an assessment that China is more likely to be a buyer than not buying, but the markets still need to see concrete evidence of Chinese purchasing." Germany's Commerzbank said in a note that the consequences of the coronavirus for the year as a whole were "virtually impossible" to predict as yet. Although the Chinese purchases will not be included, traders are waiting for the next U.S. Department of Agriculture monthly supply and demand forecast report due on Tuesday. "Corn and wheat are drifting down in a risk-off mood as markets await the news from the USDA report later today and the result of the wheat tender from Egypt," Ammermann said. Analysts predict the USDA will reduce its estimate of U.S. corn, soybean and wheat season ending stocks on Tuesday. The USDA monthly supply and demand forecast will factor in the broad goals of the Phase One trade deal between the U.S. and China, but details of China's purchase commitments will not be part of the estimates. (Reporting by Michael Hogan, additional reporting by Colin Packham, editing by Kirsten Donovan) 
