stocks
{ By Chris Pleasance for MailOnline  and Afp   Published:  09:21, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7990373/35-storey-tower-evacuated-Hong-Kong-two-residents-catch-coronavirus.html }
More than 100 people have been evacuated from a 35-storey tower block with 3,000 residents in Hong Kong after two people tested positive for coronavirus.  Four more people who shared a drainage system with the pair are now showing symptoms, amid fears that one of them could be a 'super-spreader'. Super-spreaders are highly infectious individuals who spread a virus much faster than typical patients, although the science behind why this happens in unclear. Hong Kong is on high alert for so-called super-spreader events following the 2003 SARS outbreak which killed almost 300 people in the territory - where 80 per cent of cases were traced back to a single super-spreader.    Dr. Liu Jianlun, a medic who had treated SARS patients, infected 23 people at the 16-storey Metropole Hotel in Hong Kong before dying of the disease himself in February of that year. Hong Kong's tower blocks, which make the city one of the most densely populated places on earth, are particularly susceptible to infection. During the same SARS outbreak, 42 people died inside just one block after the disease was spread through a faulty drainage system.  There are now fears that the same scenario could be playing out inside the 35-storey block in Tsing Yi district, on an island to the west of Hong Kong city. Officials stressed that it is not yet clear how the two people - a 62-year-old woman and a man - became infected. However, their apartments did share a drainage system along the four others now showing symptoms. All of the 35 evacuated apartments also shared the same drains.  Health secretary Sophia Chan said the four with symptoms and have been taken to a hospital isolation ward.  The two with confirmed infections have been taken to quarantine camps. Residents on Tuesday morning found their neighbourhood filled with police and health officials. 'Of course I'm scared,' a 59-year-old resident, who gave her surname as Chan, said. 'I live with my son, daughter-in-law, grandchildren and my husband. We seldom go out already because we don't have enough masks. I don't allow my grandchildren to play in the hallway. Now we can't even stay at home.' There are 42 confirmed cases of the virus in Hong Kong, including a cluster of 10 family members who had all shared a hotpot meal with an infected person. The SARS epidemic left profound psychological scars on Hong Kong and saddled locals with a deep distrust of authorities in Beijing who initially covered up the outbreak. Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam, who has faced calls to resign over her allegiance to Beijing, on Tuesday appealed for residents to stay indoors as much as possible. 'As part and parcel of enhancing social distancing we are making an appeal to the people of Hong Kong to stay at home as much as possible,' Lam told reporters. 'But at the moment, we're making this appeal, we're not going for compulsory closures because Hong Kong is a free society.' The financial hub has been hit by panic buying even though the government has said imports remain steady. There is an acute shortage of face masks - including in hospitals where stocks are being rapidly depleted - fuelling anger towards the city's pro-Beijing leaders. On Saturday, the city began enforcing a 14-day mandatory quarantine for anyone arriving from mainland China. So far, about 2,200 people have crossed the border. The vast majority have been told to self-quarantine at home while a few dozen without addresses have been taken to government facilities. The highly contagious virus has a 14-day incubation period of no visible symptoms where a carrier can still spread infection. Since the outbreak spawned in Wuhan late last year, it has infected over 42,000 and killed over 1,000 worldwide, the overwhelming majority of which in China. The new strain of the coronavirus, temporarily dubbed 2019-nCoV, that originated in Wuhan in central China about a month ago has since spread to effect more than 40,000 people around the globe. Health officials say the illness is capable of spreading before symptoms show and about 20 percent of patients become severely ill.  The symptoms include fever, coughing, shortness of breath and can progress to pneumonia and respiratory failure. By Monday evening the coronavirus death toll topped 1,000 - surpassing the number of deaths counted during the 2003 SARS virus outbreak. On Monday a slew of new cases were confirmed on a quarantined cruise ship in Yokohama, Japan. The number of passengers already removed or soon to be removed from the Diamond Princess for treatment in Japanese hospitals stood at 135 Monday, including 23 American passengers.  Eleven of those Americans were among the 65 new cases confirmed internationally. Now, cases have been confirmed in at least 24 countries, although only two of the confirmed deaths occurred outside China.  Those deaths were confirmed in the Philippines and in Hong Kong. On Monday alone China reported 103 deaths in the Hubei province - the highest toll recorded in any one 24-hour period since the outbreak began in December. Wuhan, the focal point of the disease, is located within the Hubei province. As of the latest figures, China still has the vast majority of coronavirus cases, with 42,268 and 1,011 deaths. Of those patients, more than 7,300 are in 'serious/critical' condition. There are now 391 cases outside China with cases of coronavirus World Health Organization (WHO) experts and scientists finally arrived in China on Monday to help officials there contain and study the outbreak, that's now struck at least 42,729 people worldwide. The WHO warned that the more than 40,000 cases already reported by then were likely just 'the tip of the iceberg,' as they expect that people with mild or no symptoms have not been diagnosed - yet - leading to an underestimate of total illnesses worldwide.  
