stocks
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  06:38, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7990173/Tigers-enter-George-Bailey-Shield-era.html }
Tasmania begin life without George Bailey on Friday against Queensland in the Sheffield Shield, with their coach admitting the beloved batsman's departure hasn't yet sunk in. Bailey's retirement at the end of the Big Bash League to become a national selector has left a void of 161 first-class games in the Tigers' middle order. Coach Jeff Vaughan said the absence of Bailey, who made his Shield debut for the Tigers in 2004, would probably hit the team later this week. "I think it'll be when we're in Brisbane, when we arrive and Bails won't be there," Vaughan told reporters ahead of the Gabba encounter. "We'll all miss him. He's a pretty unique man is Bails." The Tigers are also without Matthew Wade, who is on international white-ball duties, but welcome back Test skipper Tim Paine. Paine will take the reins of his state after turning out in grade cricket last weekend, where he didn't bat but surprisingly rolled the arm over for seven wicketless overs. Vaughan said the gloveman was likely to bat at No.6 but the final make-up of the side isn't set in stone. Jordan Silk, Beau Webster, Simon Milenko and MacAlister Wright are all jostling for middle-order spots in a 13-man squad. The Tigers have just one win from six matches but can make up some ground with a victory over second-placed Queensland. "We're need to win some games at the back-end of the season. We're always aware of where we need to improve and where we sit," Vaughan said. Tasmania's bowling stocks are weakened without injured quick Riley Meredith, who is hoping to make a return before the end of the Shield season. The Bulls have included big-guns Marnus Labuschagne, Joe Burns and Michael Neser, while Usman Khawaja will skipper the team. Tasmania's 13-man squad: Tim Paine (capt), Gabe Bell, Jackson Bird, Alex Doolan, Jake Doran, Ben McDermott, Simon Milenko, Lawrence Neil-Smith, Tom Rogers, Jordan Silk, Charlie Wakim, Beau Webster, MacAlister Wright. 
