stocks
{ By Ellie May Donohoe and Ellie Phillips For Mailonline   Published:  14:27, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8038055/EastEnders-Jessie-Wallace-stocks-health-food-shop-told-sort-out.html }
Jessie Wallace was spotted stocking up on supplies at a health food shop after reportedly being suspended from EastEnders for 'boozing on set.' The actress, 48, dressed down for her outing to Green Guru on in North London on Monday as she donned black sweatpants and a grey T-shirt.    The mother-of-one was seen carrying a paper bag with her purchases in, whilst she kept hydrated with a hot drink in hand. Jessie also wore a black zip up jacket to protect herself from the rain and remained casual in trainers.   The soap star wore her raven tresses in a loose top knot and went makeup free for her outing. She appeared deep in thought as she strolled down the street with a pensive expression on her face.  Jessie's healthy outing comes following claims she was told to 'sort herself out' by EastEnders bosses amid her reported show suspension for allegedly drinking on set. The actress has played fiery Kat Slater on and off for nearly two decades.  According to reports, Jessie will be temporarily written out of storylines after her behaviour was 'called into question', with producers allegedly scrambling to explain her exit on the show.    Earlier this month further reports surfaced claiming she had said to a crew member 'I know you want some of me,' between takes. However, a source told MailOnline this was 'nonsense.'     It has been claimed she was hauled into a crisis meeting with show bosses who are said to have suspended her for two months, ordering her to 'sort herself out' before returning. On the incident, an insider told The Sun: 'It appeared that troubled Jessie seemed drunk on set.' According to Mirror Online, a source added: 'Bosses were left with no choice but to discipline her. During the meeting she was told to sort herself out before returning to work. 'Scriptwriters are currently coming up with a storyline to explain Kat's temporary exit from Walford.' They added that series chiefs were relieved that Jessie had already filmed her scenes on the River Thames for the soap's 35th Anniversary Special on February 19. The source continued: 'Thankfully all of the episodes she appears in on the boat along the Thames have been shot, so her suspension didn't cause any chaos to the soap's big birthday week.' The insider also claimed that Jessie won't be included in celebrations held behind the scenes. EastEnders declined to comment when contacted by MailOnline. MailOnline has contacted Jessie Wallace's representatives for comment. Jessie previously hit disciplinary trouble when she arrived 'drunk' at the British Soap Awards in June 2018. She was 'ordered home' and left before the ceremony held at The Lowry in Salford had started. An insider told The Sun at the time: 'Jessie was an absolute mess last year. She completely over-cooked it at the pre-drinks and had to be sent home.' Jessie's 'inebriated' state prompted fears that she could be returning to the hard-partying ways that almost derailed her career in the mid-2000's. In 2003 the actress was banned from the road for three years and fined £1,000 for drink driving. She was one and a half times over the drink drive limit after her Mercedes was stopped by police officers in Chelmsford. The Enfield native was previously banned from the road for 15 months some five-years earlier for failing to take a breathalyser test.   
