stocks
{ By Alex Sebastian For This Is Money  and Mark Duell for MailOnline   Published:  09:27, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8037223/Stock-market-plunges-spike-coronavirus-cases-outside-China-sparks-fears-pandemic.html }
Share prices across Europe and in the UK plunged today as the spread of coronavirus cases outside of China caused chaos on the stock markets. London's FTSE 100 index closed down 3.3 per cent at 7,156.83, meaning some £62billion was wiped off the total value of the stock market, with three of Britain's largest airlines dropping the most as the outbreak continues to spread. The drop was the London stock market's worst one-day performance in more than four years.  EasyJet fell by 16 per cent, TUI by 10 per cent and British Airways parent firm IAG by 9 per cent towards the close as the number of infected people surged. The CAC 40 in Paris and Germany's DAX both fell 4 per cent and the FTSE MIB in Italy dropped 5.4 per cent.   The IMF predicts the virus will lower growth in China – where 2,500 people have died this year - to 5.6 per cent and cut global growth by 0.1 percentage points. Kristalina Georgieva, IMF managing director, said the virus has 'disrupted economic activity in China and could put the recovery at risk.' Ms Georgieva told the G20 meeting in Riyadh: 'Even in the case of rapid containment of the virus, growth in China and the rest of the world would be impacted.'  The FTSE 100 hit a two-month low as investors instead heading for gold, viewed as a safe haven in times of peril, which jumped $33.70 to $1,682.40 per ounce. Among the mining firms suffering a considerable fall in their value where Glencore, Evraz, and Anglo American which slumped by at least 5 per cent each. The decline followed a Friday sell-off on Wall Street and a weekend meeting in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, of finance ministers and central bank chiefs of the Group of 20 major industrial economies. This saw officials warn the outbreak that began in China is threatening to derail world growth. The falls in Europe follow similar plunges in Asia markets overnight and will stoke expectations of similar falls in America when trading gets underway later today. AJ Bell analyst Russ Mould said: 'Fears over an escalation of the coronavirus outside of China have caused a major retreat in global markets and prompted wild swings in commodity prices.' 'Italy's lockdown, as the country tries to control the worst outbreak of the virus in Europe, has caused investors to panic about how business and society will be affected. 'A large spike in coronavirus cases in South Korea has also added to market concerns. The result is a large sell-off in equities with UK, Europe and Asia deeply in the red. 'Only four stocks were in positive territory on the FTSE 100, being gold and silver miner Polymetal, distribution business Bunzl, media group Pearson and rat catcher Rentokil,' Mould continued. 'There has been so much complacency in recent weeks from investors, despite clear signs that China's economy is facing a large hit and that supply chains around the world were being disrupted.' New York markets looked set for a downbeat start, with futures for the Dow Jones Industrial Average down 1.9 per cent while S&P 500 futures lost 2.1 per cent. South Korea reported another large leap in new cases today, a day after the president called for 'unprecedented, powerful' steps to combat the outbreak that is increasingly confounding attempts to stop the spread. The 70 latest new cases raised South Korea's total to 833, and two more deaths raised its toll to seven. The latest updates sparked selling of shares, pulling the benchmark Kospi 3.9 per cent lower to 2,079.04. The viral outbreak that began in China has infected more than 79,000 people globally and killed more than 2,600 people. China has reported 2,592 deaths among 77,150 cases on the mainland. Chris Towner, director at Chatham Financial, said: 'This latest news has caused markets to start to price in the risk that the coronavirus reaches a point where new infections no longer come from Chinese nationals. 'It makes the virus far harder to contain and if the spread continues more broadly across the globe then trade and travel are bound to be further impacted. 'It is clear now that Q1 global growth will be impacted by the spread of the virus especially in China where small to medium sized businesses are strapped for cash amid the obligation to carry on paying staff.' Meanwhile, China cancelled its annual legislative session, usually held in early March, as part of efforts to contain the spread of the virus. Travel restrictions, business closures and other efforts in China aimed at containing the spread of the virus have begun to disrupt supply chains and sales prospects for Apple and other big companies. Earlier today, officials in Beijing promised more help for companies and the economy, saying they expect their growth targets can still be reached despite the outbreak. 
