christianity
{ By Nikki Schwab, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:00, 18 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7806893/Republican-compares-Trump-Christ-urges-House-vote-against-impeachment.html }
One Republican House member argued Wednesday that Jesus Christ - who was crucified - got better treatment from Pontius Pilate than President Trump has from Democrats.  Another Republican then likened Wednesday's impeachment vote to Pearl Harbor, the Japanese attack on Hawaii that killed more than 2,300 Americans - and brought the country into the Second World War.  Rep. Barry Loudermilk, a Republican from Georgia, asked members of the House to keep Jesus' trial in mind as they voted on Trump's impeachment 'one week before Christmas.'  'When Jesus was falsely accused of treason, Pontius Pilate gave Jesus the opportunity to face his accusers,' Loudermilk said. 'During that sham trial, Pontius Pilate afforded more rights to Jesus than Democrats have afforded to this president in this process.'  Pilate has become a villain in Christian lore, as the man responsible for sentencing Jesus to his grisly death. Crucifixion involved nailing a person to a large wooden cross and watching them die.  For Trump impeachment will mean no more than a slap on the wrist, as Republicans in the Senate have already indicated that they will stand firm and against the president's removal.   Rep. Mike Kelly, a Republican from Pennsyvlania, reminded his colleagues that many 'wonderful things' have happened in December - like Christmas and the Boston Tea Party.  'But also a horrific act happened in the United States and it's one where President Roosevelt said, "This is a date that will live in infamy,"' Kelly went on, referring to December 7, 1941, when Pearl Harbor occurred.  'Today, December 18, 2019, is another date that will live in infamy,' the congressman proclaimed.   The House of Representatives is expected to vote on Trump's impeachment later Wednesday night. He's accused of pressuring the Ukrainian president to announce an investigation into a top 2020 Democratic rival, former Vice President Joe Biden, and then flaunting Congressional investigation.  After Loudermilk concluded his plea, House Judiciary Committee Jerry Nadler avoided the Biblical banter, but spoke up.   'The president was given the opportunity to come and testify before the Judiciary Committee, to send his counsel, to question witnesses, he declined to do so,' Nadler said.  Asked to respond to Loudermilk's comparison at the White House, Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway wasn't supportive.  'I don't like many Jesus comparisons, because he is my Lord and savior,' she said.  She also diminished its importance.  'I think it probably, on a day like today, is one of the least important comments made,' she added.    Christianity has become a supporting character in the last 24 hour's impeachment drama.  On Tuesday, Trump sent a six-page letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi accusing her of lying when she says she prays for him.  Pelosi is a devout Catholic.  'Even worse than offending the Founding Fathers, you are offending Americans of faith by continually saying "I pray for the President," when you know this statement is not true, unless it is meant in a negative sense,' Trump said. 'It is a terrible thing you are doing, but you will have to live with it, not I!' 
