christianity
{ By Keith Griffith For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:38, 18 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7806479/Christian-couple-seek-resurrect-dead-two-year-old-daughter-prayer.html }
A devout Christian couple are attempting to resurrect their dead two-year-old daughter through faith and prayer, but a GoFundMe campaign started on their behalf by church leaders is raising more worldly questions.  Andrew and Kalley Heiligenthal's two-year-old daughter, Olive Alayne Heiligenthal, died early Friday morning after she stopped breathing in Redding, California.  The family called 911, and paramedics rushed Olive to a hospital, where she was declared dead. Her body was transferred to the Shasta County Coroner's Office, a spokesman from the couple's church told DailyMail.com.  On Sunday, Kalley wrote a heartbreaking post on Instagram, calling for 'bold, unified prayers from the global church to stand with us in belief that He will raise this little girl back to life.' The post quickly found support from the congregants at Bethel megachurch in Redding, where Kalley is heavily involved with the church music group and has produced her own albums of Christian music. 'Her time here is not done, and it is our time to believe boldly, and with confidence wield what King Jesus paid for. It's time for her to come to life,' wrote Kalley, who has more than 240,000 followers on Instagram.   Kalley continued her calls for prayers for resurrection in Instagram posts on Monday and Tuesday.  'Since that night, and at the continued request of the Heiligenthal family, Bethel Church has hosted prayer and worship gatherings which consist of singing and prayer,' the church said in a statement.  On Tuesday night, hundreds gathered at Bethel Church for prayer and worship at a ceremony calling for Olive's resurrection.  A church spokesman said that this was the first-ever public prayer gathering that the church has hosted to pray for a resurrection. Bethel Church provided the following statement to DailyMail.com:  'In the early hours of December 14, the Heiligenthal family experienced the unexpected loss of their youngest daughter, Olive Alayne (2 years old), after she stopped breathing. 911 was called immediately, and resuscitation attempts were made by medical professionals at the family’s home and at the hospital, but she was eventually pronounced dead. Her body has been at the Shasta County Coroner’s Office since it was transferred from the hospital on December 14.  'That evening, the child’s parents requested that friends, family, and others from the church gather to pray for a miracle of resurrection, the basis for which is modeled by Jesus in the New Testament of the Bible. Bethel Church believes in the accounts of healing and physical resurrection found in the Bible (Matthew 10:8), and that the miracles they portray are possible today.  'Since that night, and at the continued request of the Heiligenthal family, Bethel Church has hosted prayer and worship gatherings which consist of singing and prayer (this is the first-ever public gathering of prayer for resurrection that Bethel has hosted). As a church family, our hearts are with the Heiligenthals, and we are both praying for Olive and walking with them through their deep grief and sorrow. Bethel leadership is committed to caring for and serving the Heiligenthal family during this difficult time.  'To help cover unknown expenses for the family during this time and any future expenses for Olive, a GoFundMe page was set up by friends and co-workers of Kalley with all funds going directly to the Heiligenthal family.'  At the same time that Kalley was calling for prayer to resurrect Olive, however, Bethel Music started a GoFundMe campaign to raise money for the couple.  Church leaders wrote that the fund, which has raised more than $38,000 toward a $100,000 goal, was to cover 'unforeseeable expenses the Heiligenthal family will incur, medical and otherwise.'  The fundraiser, combined with the prayers for Olive's resurrection, led some Twitter users to accuse the couple of perpetrating a 'scam' or a 'hoax.'  'To help cover unknown expenses for the family during this time and any future expenses for Olive, a GoFundMe page was set up by friends and co-workers of Kalley with all funds going directly to the Heiligenthal family,' Bethel Church said in a statement.  'Bethel Church believes in the stories of healing and physical resurrection found in the Bible (Matthew 10:8), and that the miracles they portray are possible today,' the statement added.  Church officials said that Olive's body has been at the Shasta County Coroner’s Office since it was transferred there from the hospital on December 14.  The coroner's office did not immediately return a phone message from DailyMail.com on Wednesday.  Although Christianity teaches of the resurrection of the dead and the life of the world to come, attempts to literally resurrect dead bodies are unusual in the religion.  Church officials said they are doing more for the family than praying for the child to come back to life. 'As a church family, our hearts are with the Heiligenthals, and we are both praying for Olive and walking with them through their deep grief and sorrow,' the church said in a statement. 'Bethel leadership is committed to caring for and serving the Heiligenthal family during this difficult time.'   
