{ By Stephen Gibbs for Daily Mail Australia   Published:  08:21, 15 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7783759/British-photographer-sets-Australia-really-lucky-country.html }
A British photographer who set out to discover if Australia really is the lucky country has criss-crossed the continent to capture a collection of startling images. Chris Hoare took his camera to far-flung communities including Kalgoorlie in the Western Australian goldfields, Townsville in north Queensland and the South Australian opal mining town of Coober Pedy. He chronicled what he saw on the Gold Coast, in Perth, Alice Springs, at Sunshine in Melbourne's western suburbs and Newtown in Sydney's inner-city.  Among his subjects were a man of Scottish heritage with a tattooed face proudly wearing a T-shirt with an Australian flag and young indigenous mothers sitting with their daughters outside a shopping centre. He photographed a woman at a Cash Converters outlet spending her previous night's poker machine winnings and a prospector using a metal detector as he searched for gold.  The end result is a set of pictures Hoare has called The Worst Poem In The Universe, after an unkind description of a composition penned by Western Australian mining magnate Gina Rinehart when she was the world's richest woman.  Hoare, whose work can be seen at www.chrishoare.org and on Instagram @chrishoarephoto, is interested in areas of society he feels are overlooked as he explores themes of identity and place. He has been increasingly drawn to what he calls 'speculative documentary' and the possibilities that come with telling visual stories in a 'loose metaphorical way'. Hoare's hometown is Bristol. He first became interested in Australia in 2014 when he heard a podcast about Aboriginal hip-hop music. 'I became fascinated with the topic and it's potential to be a story that should be told,' he says. 'This led me to become interested with Australia.  'In 2015 I made a trip to Australia for one month and attempted to tell a photo-journalistic story about the Aboriginal hip-hop scene.  'I started making in-roads and contacts, but became frustrated with access and through my reading I became more interested in Australia as whole. 'On the same trip I had been photographing Australia more generally, mostly questioning my own outsider perspective on the country.  'Quite early on I read The Lucky Country by Donald Horne and this led me to start thinking about whether the country was a "lucky country" or not.  The title of Horne's 1964 book came from the opening words of The Lucky Country's last chapter: 'Australia is a lucky country run mainly by second rate people who share its luck.' 'It lives on other people's ideas, and, although its ordinary people are adaptable, most of its leaders (in all fields) so lack curiosity about the events that surround them that they are often taken by surprise.' Hoare notes 'the lucky country' has come to be used as an affirmation and believes Australians have a unique affinity with the notion of luck - both good and bad. 'I used the notion of "luck" as a starting point when making work on the street, choosing to look for possible evidence of both "good luck" and "bad luck",' he says. 'I did this by travelling across the country, at times going to places with obvious "luck" connotations such as Kalgoorlie.  'I eventually spent two more trips - the second being one year long - exploring the idea of "luck", sometimes in an obvious way and sometimes not, but wanted to eventually shed light on the country's possible relationship with this phrase, "the lucky country".' The globe is sadly groaning with debt, poverty and strife And billions now are pleading to enjoy a better life Their hope lies with resources buried deep within the earth And the enterprise and capital which give each project worth Is our future threatened with massive debts run up by political hacks Who dig themselves out by unleashing rampant tax The end result is sending Australian investment, growth and jobs offshore This type of direction is harmful to our core Some envious unthinking people have been conned To think prosperity is created by waving a magic wand Through such unfortunate ignorance, too much abuse is hurled Against miners, workers and related industries who strive to build the world Develop North Australia, embrace multiculturalism and welcome short term foreign workers to our shores To benefit from the export of our minerals and ores The world's poor need our resources: do not leave them to their fate Our nation needs special economic zones and wiser government, before it is too late.   Hoare says Gina Rinehart 'could be well be the luckiest of Australians' since she inherited her father Lang Hancock's iron ore leases. In fact, Hancock's estate was bankrupt when he died in 1992 and Hancock Prospecting was in extremely poor financial shape, with its few remaining assets heavily mortgaged or under threat of litigation. Hancock Prospecting’s Roy Hill massive iron ore mining project in the Pilbara was not yet part of the company when Hancock was alive. Rinehart turned Hancock Prospecting into a multi-billion dollar mining empire.  A poem Rinehart wrote which she called Our Future was engraved on a plaque fixed to a 30-tonne iron ore boulder as part of an outdoor artwork installed in Western Australia in 2012. At the time Rinehart, the country's richest person according to Forbes Australia, was worth an estimated $29billion, and her rhyming couplets were met with ridicule. A Wikipedia contributor called her work 'the universe's worst poem, although many still dispute if it qualifies to be classified as poetry.' The verse attacked the government for not supporting the resources industry and called for Australia to embrace multiculturalism and welcome short-term foreign workers. The poem includes lines such as: 'Is our future threatened with massive debts run up by political hacks/Who dig themselves out by unleashing rampant tax.' 'The end result is sending Australian investment, growth and jobs offshore/This type of direction is harmful to our core. 'Some envious unthinking people have been conned/To think prosperity is created by waving a magic wand.' Australian poet Geoff Lemon said of the poem: '[Our Future] attempts a noble challenge: the rendering of economic theory and politico-economic ideology into stirring verse.' 'Some call it impossible to include phrases such as "special economic zones" in a fluid and aesthetically pleasing poem. Those people are right. 'But Rinehart doesn't let that stop her.' Creative writing lecturer Professor Dennis Haskell from the University of Western Australia was not impressed with Rinehart's poetry but said 'good on her for having a go.' 'I guess it's not written with artistic merit in mind,' Professor Haskell told the ABC. 'As a poet she's about as good as I am at mining. She won't make as much money out of poetry, that's for sure.' Hoare says: 'The poem has been described as the "worst poem in the universe", not just because of its complete lack of poetic prose.' 'But the poem also seems to be at odds with reality, whereas within the [photographic] project there are real people in real situations. The work brings her words into question.' The photographs in The Worst Poem In The Universe were taken between 2015 and 2018 and will be presented in a photobook sometime in 2020. The work has already been displayed at the Gare Du Nord train station in Paris where it was selected as part of the Paris Photo festival's prestigious Carte Blanche award.  Two portraits from the series are on display at the National Portrait Gallery in London. One of those pictures has also been selected for the HeadOn portrait prize.     
