{ By Rory Tingle For Mailonline   Published:  15:00, 10 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7776539/Christian-doctor-59-cleared-offering-pray-patient.html }
A Christian doctor who risked losing his job for offering to pray with patients has been cleared of any wrongdoing after being subjected to a three-month probe over an anonymous complaint.  Dr Richard Scott, 59, was investigated after the National Secular Society (NSS) claimed that a 'highly vulnerable' patient 'felt discomfort at the use of prayer'. The case was taken up by the General Medical Council, despite the NSS admitting it did not know who the complainant was and that they had received the allegations second hand. The investigation followed a Radio 4 interview which Scott took part in regarding the freedom of religion in England. In the interview, aired in January, Dr Scott spoke about how he sometimes used his faith to help patients with depression and anxiety. 'I always go through three elements: does somebody need tablets, would someone benefit from counselling, and as an option I offer the possibility of Christianity,' he said. 'Only last week a lady converted to Christianity in clinic as a result of that introduction.' In June, the General Medical Council wrote to Scott informing him that it had received 'some information' from the NSS and would begin a fitness to practise investigation in to him. The NSS claimed they had been contacted ’by a member of the public who was concerned because an acquaintance whom she describes as "highly vulnerable" is being treated at the practice and claimed that the patient "does not feel able to express discomfort at the use of prayer".' The NSS letter also cited the BBC radio interview, The Battles That Won Our Freedoms: 3 Freedom of Religion, and claimed Dr Scott was ignoring GMC guidelines ’by preaching to patients'. But the doctor, who practices at the Bethesda Medical Centre in Margate, Kent, has now been cleared of any wrongdoing. He welcomed the ruling but slammed the GMC for taking on the 'extraordinary' case. 'The GMC should have seen this as a vexatious complaint, i.e. from someone with an axe to grind,' he said. 'It should never have escalated. 'They could have contacted me and I would have written back and it would have been over and done with - instead quite extraordinarily they took it to the very top level of fitness to practice. 'I'm glad they came up with the right answer.' The NSS had expressed 'concern' that Scott was 'continuing to pray and promote Christianity during consultations in an attempt to convert patients', and cited an anonymous complainant. Dr Scott said: 'I talk to some my patients about spiritual things because I know it has helped in the past. 'You might say it's almost living on the edge in the modern climate but the problem for us is the GMC come down like a tonne of bricks when they could be supporting doctors. 'I hope other doctors see that if they get a complaint they can get support and fight it.' Dr Scott said the investigation had caused stress with his family, but said he won't change how he treats patients. He said: 'My family don't like it when I have a complaint like this and I know for other doctors it's hard but it is part of my days work, I won't change my day to day workings.' According to the Christian Legal Centre, the legal group who supported Dr Scott, the GMC concluded that 'there is no first-hand account or complaint from any patient about [his] practice'. The GMC ruled: 'There is no convincing evidence that Dr Scott imposes his personal religious beliefs upon potentially vulnerable patients.’ Andrea Williams, chief executive of the Christian Legal Centre, said: 'The outcome of this case not only gives reassurance to Christian doctors and professionals across the UK that they can share their faith in the workplace, but also clear guidance on how they can share it without fear of losing their jobs.' This is not the first time Dr Scott has had run-ins with the GMC, having been issued a warning in 2012 after a 24-year-old man filed a complaint against him for talking about Jesus at the end of an appointment. The GMC said it does not comment on specific cases unless they are progressed to tribunals. But a spokesman said: 'What we can say in general terms however, is that our ethical guidance sets out how doctors can balance their own personal beliefs with those of their patients. 'No two cases are the same and we treat each issue on its own individual facts. 'The threshold at which we are required to open a case is prescribed in the legislation which governs the GMC's regulatory functions. Where a complaint meets that threshold we are obliged to investigate. 'We make every effort to conclude that work as quickly as possible to minimise what we know can be a stressful process for doctors and patients.'  
