{ By Event Critics   Published:  22:02, 7 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//home/event/article-7759659/Event-brings-best-books-2019.html }
Whether you are looking for the juicy revelations of a celebrity memoir or the best bedtime reading for your kids, Event's critics have you covered. Here are the most essential books of 2019, from non-fiction to holiday page-turners Biography & Memoir    I Love The Bones Of You Christopher Eccleston S&S £20 The actor’s book prompted headlines because he writes of his struggle with anorexia but it is about so much more, particularly his relationship with his father, which has shaped his entire career. A million miles from the usual celebrity memoir. Catch And Kill Ronan Farrow Fleet £20 Journalist Farrow documents the extraordinary year in which he persuaded woman after woman to document allegations that movie mogul Harvey Weinstein had raped, abused, intimidated and assaulted them. Riveting and shocking. Airhead Emily Maitlis Penguin £9.99 Written well before the now famous interview with Prince Andrew, the Newsnight presenter’s memoir features behind-the-scenes accounts of her famous encounters, including those with Donald Trump, Bill Clinton and the Dalai Lama, among many others. Double Crossed Brian Wood Virgin £20 Brian Wood won the Military Cross for his actions at the Battle of Danny Boy in Iraq yet after the war, while suffering from PTSD, he was wrongly accused of war crimes and disgracefully hounded by unscrupulous lawyers. Ghostland Edward Parnell William Collins £16.99 Parnell visits the places in the British Isles associated with the authors of his favourite ghost stories, supernatural TV series and horror films while weaving in personal memoir. A wonderful memoir, hauntingly different. Unfollow Megan Phelps-Roper Riverrun £14.99 The Westboro Baptist Church is the extreme religious sect notorious for picketing military funerals and public events with signs bearing slogans such as ‘God hates fags’. Former member Phelps-Roper tells how she saw the light and left. A Day Like Today John Humphrys William Collins £20 This memoir from the Today programme’s former chief inquisitor, who retired earlier this year, covers his early life, as well as his illustrious career in journalism. And, as you would expect, it doesn’t pull any punches. Everybody Died, So I Got A Dog Emily Dean Hodder & Stoughton £16.99 Writer and radio presenter Emily Dean lost her parents and her older sister within a short space of time, then tried to assuage her grief by getting a dog. A funny-sad tale of love, loss and pets. A Marvelous Life Danny Fingeroth S&S £20 The late Stan Lee was a comic book ideas man who invented or helped create many of the superheroes – including Spider-Man and Iron Man – who populate the Marvel Cinematic Universe, a money-printing entertainment franchise. Fingeroth tells how the son of poor immigrant parents became such a powerhouse of popular culture. Homing Jon Day John Murray £16.99 A compelling blend of personal memoir, nature writing and popular science, Day’s book considers the humble pigeon, probably our oldest companion species. A pigeon fancier himself, he also draws on the views of biologists, philosophers, poets – and a pest-control expert.  How To Fail  Elizabeth Day  Fourth Estate £12.99  Inspired by her hit podcast of the same name, which features interviews with guests as diverse as Phoebe Waller-Bridge and Andy McNab, the Mail On Sunday columnist reflects on her failures and what she’s learnt from them. History  The Patient Assassin Anita Anand S&S£20 Udham Singh was injured in the Amritsar massacre in 1919 and swore to take revenge on those responsible. Anand’s account of how that oath eventually played out reads like a thriller. The Five Hallie Rubenhold Doubleday £16.99 Winner of the Baillie Gifford prize for non-fiction, Rubenhold’s fascinating books tells the often overlooked story of Jack the Ripper’s victims. The Anarchy William Dalrymple  Bloomsbury £30 How the East India Company grew to control almost half the world’s trade and rule over a sub-continent, backed by a huge private army bigger than that of the British Crown. Appeasing Hitler Tim Bouverie Bodley Head £20 During the Thirties, why was the British Establishment so wrong about Hitler despite his transparency about his aims? A Game Of Birds And Wolves Simon Parkin Sceptre £20 When U-boats were devastating convoys, the Admiralty turned to wargaming to discover the enemy’s tactics. The account of how a retired captain and a team of Wrens worked out the Germans’ deadly game will soon be a film. Dominion Tom Holland Little, Brown £25 An amibitious account of the history and enduring influence of Christianity. Holland argues that the modern world has been shaped by the consequences of the life and death of Jesus. The Boy Who Followed His Father Into Auschwitz Jeremy Dronfield Penguin £8.99 In 1942 Gustav Kleinmann, a Viennese Jew, learned he was to be transferred from Buchenwald concentration camp to Auschwitz. Everyone knew what Auschwitz meant yet Gustav’s 18-year-old son Fritz followed him. A Short History Of London Simon Jenkins Viking £25 The former chairman of the National Trust focuses on architecture and planning, politics and culture in this highly readable account. Who Dares Wins: Britain, 1979-1982 Dominic Sandbrook Allen Lane £35 Margaret Thatcher, the Falklands War, Northern Ireland, civil unrest, Duran Duran, snooker and a truly revolutionary act: Marks & Spencer’s invention of the pre-packaged sandwich. Chastise: The Dambusters Story 1943 Max Hastings William Collins £25 One of our greatest military historians reassesses the episode we all think we know from the much-loved film, his compelling account reminding us that this daring raid cost the lives of 53 airmen and some 1,500 civilians. Crusaders Dan Jones Head of Zeus £25 Bloody battles and epic sieges abound in this energetic history of the Crusades, a series of adventures that still has ramifications today. To War With The Walkers Annabel Venning Hodder & Stoughton £20 From the London blitz to the unforgiving jungles of Burma, the thrilling and uplifting story of the Second World War experiences of the six Walker siblings. Madame Fourcade’s Secret War Lynne Olson Scribe £22 Olson tells the story of a French spy known to MI6 by her codename ‘Hedgehog’, a virtually unknown heroine who twice escaped from Nazi captivity. Thrillers  Agent Running In The Field John le Carré Viking £20 This latest from the grandmaster of spy fiction is a contemporary tale featuring a host of current issues as MI6 veteran Nat, after many years abroad, is consigned to an inferior English spy subsection dubbed ‘The Haven’. Then he gets wind of a Russian plan to recruit a British agent... Under Occupation Alan Furst W&N £20 When novelist Paul Ricard is handed a mysterious package by a dying man fleeing the Gestapo in early 1940s Paris, he finds himself drawn into the dangerous world of the Resistance. As ever, Furst vividly evokes a sense of time and place. Violet SJI Holliday Orenda Books £8.99 Two young backpackers meet while waiting for the Trans-Siberian Express. Both have their secrets and, as they travel across the vibrantly rendered wilds of Northern Asia, it’s clear that these strangers on a train are heading for a dreadful reckoning. Wonderfully creepy and compelling. The Sound Of Her Voice Nathan Blackwell Orion £8.99 Nathan Blackwell is the pseudonym for a former New Zealand undercover cop, and this debut thriller has a real white-knuckle authenticity. Matt Buchanan is a detective haunted by the cases he’s failed to solve, so when he suspects that there’s a serial killer out there, he struggles to keep his raging need for justice within the law. Death In The East Abir Mukherjee Harvill Secker £14.99 Mukherjee’s series, set in India in the Twenties, is emerging as one of the finest in contemporary crime fiction. His deeply flawed hero, Captain Sam Wyndham, is attempting to kick his opium addiction in a remote ashram, only to come face to face with a killer he last saw in London 20 years earlier. Meanwhile his sidekick, Surendranath Banerjee, is feeling the pull of Gandhi’s independence movement. Burnt Island Kate Rhodes S&S £20 A new series, set on the Scilly Isles, featuring appealing copper Ben Kitto, who struggles to balance the competing demand of locals and incomers – never more so than when one of those incomers is found burnt to death on a funeral pyre. A satisfyingly twisty mystery. Platform Seven Louise Doughty Faber £14.99 Doughty’s new novel straddles the line between crime and literary fiction. It’s narrated by a ghost called Lisa, condemned to haunt Peterborough station since her apparent suicide some years before. Gradually Lisa reveals her past, as she spins out a depressingly convincing tale of coercive control and domestic violence. Hercule Poirot’s Christmas Agatha Christie HarperCollins £14.99 First published over 80 years ago, this reissue of Christie’s festive mystery is not to be missed. When a millionaire is found with his throat cut in a locked room on Christmas Eve, police are baffled. Luckily Poirot is spending the holidays nearby. Murder Your Darlings Mark McCrum Severn House £20.99 Author and sometime sleuth Francis Meadowes is running a crime-writing course in Italy when one of his group is found dead. The beautiful Umbrian countryside is wonderfully realised in this latest cosy-crime novel from former travel writer McCrum. The Turn Of The Key Ruth Ware Harvill Secker £12.99 Nanny Rowan thinks her dreams have come true when she gets a job at a gorgeous house in the Scottish Highlands. But when the parents leave her alone with the children and strange things start happening in the night, the stage is set for an elegant and suspenseful Gothic chiller. Children’s Picture books   The Night Before Christmas In Wonderland Carys Bexington Macmillan £12.99 3+ It’s Santa who ventures down the rabbit hole in this magical mash-up of two much-loved stories. Through sparky rhyming text and rich illustrations (by Kate Hindley), we follow Rudolph and the gang to Wonderland and learn the reason for the Queen of Hearts’ ferocious temper. A true Christmassy delight. Read This Book If You Don’t Want A Story Richard Phillips Tilbury House £9.99 5+ The fourth wall comes tumbling down in a laugh-out-loud tale about a book that doesn’t want to tell a story. But his pages have other ideas so they band together and persuade him that everyone has something worthwhile to say. Eric Zelz’s pictures of the grumpy book (complete with elaborate moustache and a sombrero) are a hoot. Mr Gumpy’s Rhino John Burningham Jonathan Cape £12.99 5+ This posthumous treat from the great John Burningham sees the return of a much-loved character we first met almost 50 years ago. Mr Gumpy is travelling in Africa when he comes across an orphaned rhino and decides to take him home. The rhino’s transformation from teary baby to mischievous companion is utterly heartwarming. Be More Bernard Simon Philip S&S £6.99 2+ The importance of being true to yourself is the message of this joyous book. Bernard the bunny has always tried his best to fit in even though he doesn’t dream of carrots like a good rabbit should. One day, he takes the plunge and unleashes his inner disco diva at the annual bunny ball. Kate Hindley’s charming illustrations bring bouncing Bernard to groovy life.  Chapter books Frostheart Jamie Littler Puffin £7.99 8+ Perfect for reluctant readers, this lavishly illustrated debut follows Ash, whose loneliness in a frozen outpost is brought to an end by the arrival of a sleigh and its motley crew of Pathfinders tasked with finding safe passage through the monster-filled Snow Sea. Could they be the key to him locating his lost parents? An exhilarating escapade. The Impossible Boy Ben Brooks Quercus £9.99 9+ Best friends Oleg and Emma play a prank on their substitute teacher by handing in homework by an imaginary classmate named Sebastian Cole. So they get quite a shock when a very real-looking Sebastian turns up in their den. A magical festive adventure celebrating the power of friendship and the imagination. The Garden Of Lost Secrets AM Howell Usborne £6.99 9+ It’s the First World War and city girl Clara has been sent to stay with her aunt and uncle on the country estate in Suffolk where they work for a reclusive earl. A mysterious locked room, missing pineapples and ghostly sightings in the hothouse are just some of the puzzles Clara finds herself trying to solve in this thrilling tale. American Royals Katharine McGee Penguin £7.99 12+ Scandals, romance and betrayal abound in a novel set in a world where George Washington became King George I rather than president. Told from the perspective of perfect crown princess Beatrice, her ‘spare’ sister Samantha, ambitious commoner Daphne, and Samantha’s quiet best friend Nina, it’s pure, unadulterated escapism. Deeplight Frances Hardinge Macmillan £12.99 12+ Costa Award-winning Hardinge showcases her impressive world-building skills in a tale about orphan friends Hark and Jelt, whose lives are changed forever when they discover a powerful relic of the old sea gods. Hardinge’s typically sublime prose is richly evocative. Crossfire Malorie Blackman Penguin £7.99 14+ This addition to the Noughts And Crosses series,set in an alternative reality where black ‘Crosses’ hold power over white ‘Noughts’, sees the once friendly Nought Libby and Cross Troy forced to confront their differences when they are kidnapped. The cliffhanger ending will leave fans desperately awaiting the next instalment. Short stories  The Penguin Book Of Christmas Stories Ed by Jessica Harrison Penguin Classics £20 From Hans Christian Andersen to Angela Carter, this greatest hits compilation also happens to be beautifully published. Inside you’ll find ghosts, miracles, grouchy curmudgeons and plenty of snow. Orange World Karen Russell Chatto & Windus £14.99 A mesmerising, often hilarious, new collection that embraces survival, love and magnificent transformation. A new mother making a pact with the devil and a young woman becoming possessed by the spirit of a giant tree are two examples of what’s in store. Home Remedies Xuan Juliana Wang Atlantic £12.99 A spare but fascinating debut by this China-born, California-raised author. Memorable characters negotiate chasmic cultural divides, from the spoilt Beijing hipster to the peasant who’s catapulted into a life of American riches. Fabulous Lucy Hughes-Hallett Fourth Estate £12.99 Modern Britain generates a rich cast of characters for these sharply observed stories, rooted in myth, including a migrant worker, a cocky estate agent, a people-trafficking gang master, a prostitute, a librarian and an aged musician. Grand Union Zadie Smith Hamish Hamilton £20 Smith’s first short story collection is a rollercoaster, careening from satirical sketches to flights of sci-fi fancy and everything in between. The settings range from Cambridge to New York, her adoptive home, and their sensibility is at once punk and middle-aged. Gift books  The Elite Leigh Neville Osprey Publishing £30 For the wannabe special forces commando in your life, an encyclopedia of the world’s elite military units, the operations they’ve been involved in and the kit they use. Deepest Wiltshire Fanny Charles and Gay Pirrie-Wier Deepest Books £25 A wonderful way to discover one of Britain’s most beautiful counties in a quirky little book the authors describe as ‘part almanac, travel guide, recipe book and history tome with some social, artistic and cultural nuggets’. The Scarfolk Annual Richard Littler William Collins £12.99 Spoof annual spawned by the unsettling Scarfolk website which satirises sinister Seventies public information films and adverts. This is the blackest of black humour. The Boy, The Mole, The Fox And The Horse Charlie Mackesy Ebury Press £16.99 Cartoonist and illustrator Mackesy’s book has become a cult hit. Gentle, uplifting life lessons about love and friendship. Music & Showbiz  Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young: The Biography Peter Doggett Bodley Head £25 California’s very own Fab Four played at Woodstock and then began to fall apart. Doggett charts a five-year period in which the musicians recorded, argued, baled and reunited, either as a trio or, depending on Neil Young, a quartet. Happiness And Tears: The Ken Dodd Story Louis Barfe Apollo £20 Ken Dodd was one of Britain’s best-loved entertainers, an eccentric comedy genius. He began as a music hall act and his career would eventually span seven decades. Barfe’s deeply researched biography is a fitting tribute. Afternoons With The Blinds Drawn Brett Anderson Little, Brown £18.99 In his first memoir, which ended with Suede signing a record deal, front man Anderson said he didn’t want to write a ‘coke and gold discs’ memoir. Happily, now he has and it’s just as entertaining as the earlier volume. Inside Out Demi Moore Fourth Estate £20 A riotously entertaining and bracingly candid memoir from the star who was, for a period, the world’s highest-paid actress. Who Am I, Again? Lenny Henry Faber £20 The comedian, actor and co-founder of Comic Relief tells the poignant story of his working-class upbringing in Dudley, the early years of his career and how he used humour as a weapon against racism. I Am C-3PO Anthony Daniels DK £18.99 Daniels is the only actor to have appeared in all nine central Star Wars films, as well as the spin-offs, but it hasn’t always been an easy ride. He chronicles the many ups and downs of playing the beloved droid. Don’t Stop Believin’ Olivia Newton-John S&S £20 It’s more than 40 years since Newton-John’s iconic role as high-school student Sandy in Grease and she’s still friends with co-star John Travolta. Her memoir details her career in music and film and her struggles with cancer. Gotta Get Theroux This Louis Theroux Macmillan £20 The intrepid Theroux has made some of the most compelling television documentaries of recent years – about Jimmy Savile, Scientology, swingers, the Westboro Baptist Church, among many others – and his life story is a fascinating, funny read. Me Elton John Macmillan £25 Rare is the pop star who sees his life as a comedy, and employs a leading critic to capture it. Alexis Petridis’s witty prose makes you feel as if Elton has dropped in for a cup of tea and ended up telling you all his best stories. A Fabulous Creation: How The LP Saved Our Lives David Hepworth Bantam Press £20 An entertaining spin through the golden age of the album. Hepworth argues that the notion of an album being ‘something more than just a bunch of songs’ began in 1967 with The Beatles’ Sgt. Pepper and, via the likes of Pink Floyd, Fleetwood Mac and Roxy Music, ended in 1982 with Thriller by Michael Jackson. Popular fiction  The Giver Of Stars Jojo Moyes Michael Joseph £20 Set in Depression-era America, this enchanting novel is based on the true story of women who rode out on horseback to deliver books in Kentucky for Eleanor Roosevelt’s Pack Horse Library Project. So Lucky Dawn O’Porter HarperCollins £14.99 This smart binge-read smashes the illusion that anyone’s life is as perfect as it looks. Its heroines are all invested in proving otherwise – Ruby spends her days digitally tweaking photos, Lauren curates a flawless social-media self, Beth plans dream weddings. It takes just a single shocking event for it all to come tumbling down. Sword Of Kings Bernard Cornwell HarperCollins £20 Pagan warlord Uhtred returns for a 12th outing, and he’s lost none of his rugged appeal. The premise is irresistible: Uhtred has sworn that on King Edward’s death, he will kill two men. Now Edward is dying. Christmas Shopaholic Sophie Kinsella Bantam Press £20 Becky Brandon is back from America and looking forward to a cosy Christmas with her parents. Except that they’ve decided it’s up to her to host. How does she cope? She hits the shops, of course – online. With nods to gender-neutral play and vegan turkeys, it’s a riotous return to form. The Second Sleep Robert Harris Hutchinson £20 A young priest arrives in an Exmoor village in 1468 only to realise that the locals are unknowlingly living in a post-apocalyptic world, 21st-century civilisation having been set back hundreds of years by some unspecified catastrophic event. A classy blockbuster from a wily old hand. Postscript Cecelia Ahern HarperCollins £16.99 It’s been a 15-year wait for this sequel to Ahern’s hit PS, I Love You. Holly Kennedy is proud of all the ways in which she’s moved on from her husband’s death, but when a group inspired by his letters asks her for help, she’s thrown into self-doubt. The Garden Of Lost And Found Harriet Evans Headline Review £7.99 This immersive saga packs in the magic and mystery. Spanning three generations, it begins when Juliet unexpectedly inherits her family’s ancestral home. Secrets lie in wait, and the painting that lends the novel its title is key. City Of Girls Elizabeth Gilbert Bloomsbury £16.99 When 19-year-old Vivian Morris drops out of college, she’s sent to live with her Aunt Peg in New York, where she’s soon working as a seamstress and befriending showgirls who will teach her all that she craves to know. A delight, full of grit and glamour. The Stationery Shop Of Tehran Marjan Kamali S&S £8.99 Romance is in store for bookish Roya when she steps into a stationery shop and meets clever Bahman. But with violent protests erupting in Tehran, fate isn’t on their side. Pacey and luminous with local colour.  Literary fiction  Live A Little Howard Jacobson Jonathan Cape £18.99 This love story between an amateur fortune teller and a sharp-tongued virago who likes to think of herself as Princess Schweppessodowasser is vintage Jacobson. Did I mention that both of the protagonists are in their 90s? The Testaments Margaret Atwood Chatto & Windus £20 The sequel to Atwood’s dystopian classic was joint winner of this year’s Booker Prize, but it’s as tense as any thriller. Urgent and moving, it opens 15 years after The Handmaid’s Tale ended; the Gilead regime is riddled with corruption, but can it really topple? Funny, fierce and chilling as ever. Olive, Again Elizabeth Strout Viking £14.99 Crotchety, plain-spoken Olive Kitteridge can out grouch any Grinch. She’s also impossible not to love as she goes about her days as a 70-something in small-town Maine, navigating a late-life second marriage, estrangement from her son, and myriad smaller dramas. The novel’s message is one of hope: it’s never too late to grow. The Nickel Boys Colson Whitehead Fleet £16.99 In Sixties Florida, two black teenagers, cynical Turner and idealistic Elwood, have opposite responses to a beating they’re dealt in reform school. The tragic consequences of their contrasting courses of action make for a page-turning exploration of America’s racially troubled past. Watch out for a devastating plot-twist. The Dutch House Ann Patchett Bloomsbury £18.99 Abandoned by their mother and then expelled by a mean stepmother from their father’s home, the rambling mansion of this novel’s title, Danny and Maeve wander through their adult lives like a middle-aged Hansel and Gretel. Gothic and slyly comic, it’s full of smart observations about sibling power struggles. Sport  The Club Joshua Robinson and Jonathan Clegg John Murray £9.99 Two American journalists explain how English football went from moribund national embarrassment to the globe-bestriding colossus that is the Premier League. Witty, pacy, thorough, this is a book hard to put down. The Great Romantic Duncan Hamilton Hodder & Stoughton £20 Hamilton is an award-winning sports writer and his wonderful biography of Neville Cardus, the ‘laureate of cricket’ who invented modern cricket writing, is both lyrical and elegiac. Berkmann’s Cricketing Miscellany Marcus Berkmann Little, Brown £14.99 Addictive collection of trivia. Hitler was taught cricket but declared it ‘insufficiently violent’; James Joyce hid the names of 31 cricketers in a page of Finnegan’s Wake; Harold Pinter and Samuel Beckett both won the Nobel Prize for Literature and received an obituary in Wisden. Commander In Cheat Rick Reilly Headline £14.99 This rollicking look at Donald Trump’s behaviour on the golf course argues that a round with the 45th President of the United States reveals him to be a liar, cheat, snob, fraud, hypocrite and bully. Oh, and a pretty good golfer. Legacy Michael Gillard Bloomsbury £18.99 Investigative reporter Gillard’s account of the ways in which London’s organised crime lords muscled in on the 2012 Olympics. His dedication to exposing these gangsters and their links with politicians has put his life at risk. Science  Invisible Women Caroline Criado Perez Chatto & Windus £16.99 Car engineering, office temperature, smartphone design and the manner in which heart attacks are diagnosed – all established with, specifically, men in mind rather than women. Criado Perez has plenty of other examples of the gender data gap in this eye-opening book which was awarded the Royal Society science book prize. The Body Bill Bryson Doubleday £25 Bryson first came to prominence as a travel writer but here he’s exploring the human body – this is a voyage through you, from head to toe via your brain, lungs, bowel and all the other squidgy bits. He debunks myths, celebrates miracles of medicine and each page is packed with jaw-dropping facts. Transcendence Gaia Vince Allen Lane £20 Science writer Vince considers four fundamental factors – fire, language, beauty, and time – to retell the story of evolution and explore how humans have transcended their evolutionary origins to become the dominant species. Origins Lewis Dartnell Bodley Head £20 A look at the ways in which the Earth has shaped the human race. Among the questions Dartnell examines in this fascinating blend of history and science is why 13 out of the 15 major ancient civilisations began on the margins of tectonic plates. Reviews by Neil Armstrong, Hephzibah Anderson, Keeba Roy, John Williams, Tim de Lisle and Kelly Woodward                    
