{ By Kevin Kayhart For Dailymail.com   Published:  04:39, 7 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7766237/Kanye-West-announces-second-opera-Mary-debut-Art-Basel-Miami-Beach.html }
Kanye West announced his second opera in as many months, Mary, will debut in Miami on Sunday, December 8. It will take place at Miami Marine Stadium on the final day of Art Basel, which is a week-long fair that celebrates art and fashion.   Mary comes on the heels of the hip-hop superstar's first opera, Nebuchadnezzar, which premiered in Los Angeles in November. Like the first performance, West tweeted out the news of his latest show on Thursday, along with a biblical quote from Luke 1:30-31.  'And the angel said unto her: fear not, Mary: For thou hast found favour with God. And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name Jesus.'   The opera, which was conceived by West, will be staged by his frequent collaborator, Italian performance artist Vanessa Beecroft.  Mary will feature music from West's Sunday Service choir.  The news comes around the same time Teyana Taylor dropped her new single, We Got Love, that was produced by West. Turns out the tune was recorded in 2018, but got delayed because of the legal wrangling over a sample in the song. West has been very visible in the public eye, through much of 2019, with his Sunday Service performances, starting with his appearance a Coachella in April. In recognition of his new-born devotion to Christianity, he released his latest studio album, Jesus Is King, in October. The record coincided with his IMAX film of the same name that's focused on the Sunday Service. The Georgia native, 42, has also promised fans that they can also expect another new studio album on Christmas Day.  In an interview with Zane Lowe on Apple Music’s Beats 1, West revealed the forthcoming project -- Jesus Is Born -- will also be a 'Sunday Service album.' West was introduced to Christianity at a young age, but he clearly struggled with some of the belief systems. In an interview with Bossip in 2009, he shared that he was a Christian, but added that he believed 'religion is more about separation and judgment than bringing people together and understanding.' He added: 'I would never go into a religion… I believe in Jesus as an icon, but I don’t feel the responsibility to put my life on Jesus.'     
