christianity
{ By Jason Chester for MailOnline   Published:  11:28, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7995123/Justin-Bieber-plays-turbulent-personal-life-laughs.html }
The whirlwind promotional tour preceding Justin Bieber's eagerly anticipated fifth studio album took a lighthearted turn on Wednesday as the singer addressed his fans on Instagram.  The Canadian star is preparing himself for a return to the mainstream with new album Changes, his first notable output since 2015 and the multi-platinum selling long-player Purpose.  And Justin, 25, took time out to reflect on his forthcoming release in a series of comedic videos after boarding a private jet to Los Angeles from London, the latest stop on a hectic international itinerary.   Affecting a deep southern accent while playing his new mustache for laughs, he announced: 'Enjoy the next couple of days while you prepare to get ready for the album... it's gonna be a good album... I'm sure you guys are gonna eat it up.' Referencing the album's 17 tracks, he added: 'Mustachio's excited for you to hear 'em. Prepare your ear drums, OK? because your eardrums are about to experience something they’ve never experienced in their life. I’m talking eardrum heaven. 'I tell you right now this album's gonna blow your socks off. You'll be in your room and your socks are gonna blow right off your feet.'  Justin also referenced the difficult five year period that preceded his new album, during which he overcame his substance abuse issues, turned to Christianity and married American model Hailey Baldwin.  He said: 'Over the last few years my life has done changed for the better. I went through some challenges but I made it out the other side.  'What I did, I made an album to talk about the things it took me through, what it pulled me through, how I went through the journey and got on the other side.'  Justin was flying back to Los Angeles after treating a select group of fans to a VIP preview of the new album on Tuesday night  -among them David and Victoria Beckham's daughter Harper, who got a hug from the star.   He later took to Twitter to thank his fans for their support, writing: 'London was amazing. So grateful to be back on that stage doing what I love with all of you. Tour goes on sale with the album on Friday. #ChangesTour. 'So amazing to see people hearing #changes for the first time.'     
