christianity
{ By Associated Press   Published:  05:04, 25 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-7721865/AP-News-Brief-12-04-m-EST.html }
Federal judge: McGahn must comply with House subpoena WASHINGTON (AP) - A federal judge on Monday ordered former White House counsel Donald McGahn to appear before Congress in a setback to President Donald Trump큦 effort to keep his top aides from testifying. The outcome could lead to renewed efforts by House Democrats to compel testimony from other high-ranking officials, including former national security adviser John Bolton. Not even the president큦 closest aides who receive a subpoena from Congress can "ignore or defy congressional compulsory process, by order of the President or otherwise," Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson wrote in ruling on a lawsuit filed by the House Judiciary Committee. McGahn was a star witness in special counsel Robert Mueller큦 investigation, and Democrats wanted to question McGahn about possible obstruction of justice by Trump. That was months before the House started an impeachment inquiry into Trump큦 effort to get Ukraine to announce an investigation of former Vice President Joe Biden. The administration will appeal Jackson큦 ruling. "This decision contradicts longstanding legal precedent established by Administrations of both political parties," White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham said. "We will appeal and are confident that the important constitutional principle advanced by the Administration will be vindicated." ___ Esper says Trump ordered him to stop SEAL review board WASHINGTON (AP) - Defense Secretary Mark Esper declared Monday that President Donald Trump ordered him to stop a disciplinary review of a Navy SEAL accused of battlefield misconduct, an intervention that raised questions about America큦 commitment to international standards for battlefield ethics. Esper큦 comments are the latest twist in the case of Chief Petty Officer Edward Gallagher, which led to a conflict between Trump and armed services leaders over military discipline. The dispute peaked over the weekend with the firing of Navy Secretary Richard V. Spencer. Gallagher was acquitted of murder in the stabbing death of an Islamic State militant captive but convicted by a military jury of posing with the corpse while in Iraq in 2017. Esper initially favored allowing the Navy to proceed with a peer-review board which could have resulted in Gallagher losing his SEAL status, but he said he was obliged to follow Trump큦 order. Still, Esper also directed the Pentagon큦 legal office to review how service members are educated in the laws of armed conflict and trained to wartime behavioral standards. "I can control what I can control," Esper told reporters when asked whether Trump sent the right message to U.S. troops by intervening to stop the Gallagher review. "The president is the commander in chief. He has every right, authority and privilege to do what he wants to do." ___ In Virginia, Bloomberg blasts Trump for Navy leader큦 ouster NORFOLK, Va. (AP) - New presidential candidate Michael Bloomberg traveled to the city that hosts the world큦 largest Navy base on Monday and blasted President Donald Trump over the recent ouster of the nation큦 Navy secretary. For the first stop of his Democratic campaign, Bloomberg went to Norfolk, where he criticized Trump over the firing of Richard Spencer. The civilian leader of the Navy said he could not in good conscience follow an order by the president to allow a Navy SEAL accused of war crimes to retire without losing his SEAL status. "The fact remains: We have a president, a commander in chief, who has no respect for the rule of law, and no concern whatsoever for ethics or honor, or for the values that truly make America great," Bloomberg told a group of reporters at a downtown hotel. Virginia is a critical Super Tuesday state that is key to Bloomberg큦 campaign strategy of bypassing early states to focus on the crush of states that vote later in the cycle. And the locale offered the billionaire and former mayor of New York City more than just the latest controversy in Washington to promote his platform. The neighboring city of Virginia Beach suffered a mass shooting on May 31 that killed 12 people at a municipal complex. Bloomberg, 77, said that such shootings have become "almost routine" and that "we have to put an end to this madness." ___ With testimony over, work begins on key impeachment report WASHINGTON (AP) - The witnesses have spoken, the politics are largely settled. Now impeachment investigators will make the case for public opinion. On Monday, hundreds of pages from Democratic Chairman Adam Schiff큦 intelligence committee were being compiled into an exhaustive report that will begin to outline whether President Donald Trump engaged in "treason, bribery or other high crimes and misdemeanors" by withholding $400 million in aid as he pushed Ukraine to investigate Democratic rival Joe Biden. The report may come as soon as next week. There are rising political stakes for all sides. Americans remain deeply split over the impeachment question, despite hours of sometimes riveting testimony, and the country큦 polarization now seems to foreshadow an outcome: Democrats are poised to vote to impeach the president while Republicans stand firmly with Trump. Sending the case on to the Judiciary Committee, which is ready to start its own round of hearings in December, provides yet another chance to sway public opinion before a House vote expected by Christmas and a Senate trial in 2020. "The evidence of wrongdoing and misconduct by the President that we have gathered to date is clear and hardly in dispute," Schiff told colleagues in a letter Monday. "What is left to us now is to decide whether this behavior is compatible with the office of the Presidency, and whether the Constitutional process of impeachment is warranted." ___ Remains found believed to be UFC fighters stepdaughter AUBURN, Ala. (AP) - An Alabama district attorney said Monday that authorities have "good reason" to believe human remains found in a wooded area belong to the missing stepdaughter of a UFC heavyweight fighter. The remains were found on a county road in neighboring Macon County, Lee County District Attorney Brandon Hughes told The Associated Press. "I can confirm that human remains have been found in Macon County on County Road 2 and we have good reason to believe they are that of Aniah Blanchard," Hughes said. Police arrested a third person Monday in connection with the disappearance of Blanchard, 19. She was last seen Oct. 23 in Auburn. Her stepfather is UFC fighter Walt Harris. After she disappeared, Blanchard큦 black Honda CRV was found abandoned more than 50 miles (90 kilometers) away at an apartment complex in Montgomery, Alabama. Auburn police detective Josh Mixon testified at a hearing last week that Blanchard큦 blood was found in the car and it appeared she had suffered a life-threatening injury. ___ Inspiring tale of a Chicago neighborhood that would not die CHICAGO (AP) - With the echo of African drums, Fairfield Avenue comes alive. Men, women and children, drawn to their front porches by the pulsing beat, witness an impromptu parade led by 60-year-old Hasan Smith. A long line of well-wishers follows him to the home that he helped rebuild - the first home he has ever owned. "Hello, neighbors!" his wife, Mary, shouts. They all wave, and celebrate another chapter in the rebirth of a neighborhood. Today, the area known as Chicago Lawn is a place where kids ride bikes, where revelers gather for block parties and street dances, where shoppers frequent a farmers market and a resale shop in a once-vacant storefront and where neighborhood teens find work at a screen-printing business. ___ Pope visits Jesuit Japan community that could have been his TOKYO (AP) - Pope Francis wrapped up his visit to Japan in a very personal way Tuesday, spending the morning with his Jesuit confreres in the community that would have been his own had his dream to be a missionary come true. Francis celebrated morning Mass in the chapel of the Jesuit-run Sofia University and visited retired and sick priests before delivering a speech on Jesuit education in the final event of his weeklong Asia pilgrimage. "In a society as competitive and technologically oriented as present-day Japan, this university should be a center not only of intellectual formation, but also a place where a better society and a more hope-filled future can take shape," he told faculty and students. As a young Jesuit in Argentina, the former Jorge Mario Bergoglio had dreamed of following in the footsteps of St. Francis Xavier, who introduced Christianity to Japan in the 16th century. He was prevented because of health reasons, but he joked with Japanese bishops upon arriving in Tokyo that he got his "revenge" when he was in charge of the order in Buenos Aires and sent five Argentine priests to Japan as missionaries. ___ No easy mark: Female bodybuilder, 82, clobbers intruder ROCHESTER, N.Y. (AP) - An intruder didn큧 count on an 82-year-old woman living alone being an award-winning bodybuilder with nerves of steel. Willie Murphy was getting ready for bed Thursday at her home in Rochester, New York, when a man pounded on the door and said he needed an ambulance, Murphy told WHAM. She called police but wouldn큧 open the door. Then, she said, the man broke in and skulked through the dark house. "He picked the wrong house to break into," Murphy said. She clobbered him with a table, poured shampoo in his face and was beating him with a broom when police arrived. ___ `A serious-minded kid: Pete Buttigieg aimed high early SOUTH BEND, Ind. (AP) - It was a running joke in his AP U.S. history class at Saint Joseph High School: Would Peter Buttigieg - the smartest kid in class, language whiz and devotee of John F. Kennedy - use his unusual last name in his eventual run for president of the United States? Or would he have a better shot of winning the voters of the future if he went by Montgomery, his middle name? It was the late 1990s, Bill Clinton was in the White House, and a round-faced teenager in South Bend, Indiana, was viewed by many around him as an eventual successor. As early as grade school, Buttigieg exhibited an attention-grabbing combination of brains and curiosity, the sort of kid with a reputation - among kids and teachers. He would be named high school valedictorian, voted senior class president and chosen Most Likely to be U.S. President. He sat at the adults table. Now, South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg - not Montgomery - is indeed running for the highest office in the land. It큦 an audacious leap. No mayor has ever gone straight to the White House (let alone from a city of just over 100,000). No president has ever been so young (he큞l be 39 on Inauguration Day). And no commander in chief has ever been openly gay (or had a husband). But people who have known Buttigieg since his Indiana boyhood say it all feels predictable. ___ Iran's Guard threatens US, allies over protests DUBAI, United Arab Emirates (AP) - The head of Iran큦 Revolutionary Guard threatened the U.S. and its allies Monday as he addressed a pro-government demonstration attended by tens of thousands of people denouncing last week큦 violent protests over a fuel price hike. Gen. Hossein Salami, echoing other Iranian officials, accused the U.S., Britain, Israel and Saudi Arabia of stoking the unrest. He said the rise in gasoline prices was a "mere pretext" for an attack on the nation. "If you cross our red line, we will destroy you," he said. "We will not leave any move unanswered." He said if Iran decides to respond, "the enemy will not have security anywhere," adding that "our patience has a limit." Amnesty International said late Monday that at least 143 people have been killed in the protests since Nov. 15, updating an earlier toll. The London-based rights group said it had "clear evidence" that Iranian security forces used firearms against unarmed protesters. "The rising death toll is an alarming indication of just how ruthless the treatment of unarmed protesters has been by the Iranian authorities and reveals their appalling assault on human life," said Philip Luther, Amnesty큦 research and advocacy director for the Middle East and North Africa. 
