{ By Erica Tempesta For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:32, 19 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7702683/Bristol-Palins-new-boyfriend-got-divorced-three-months-started-dating.html }
Bristol Palin and her new boyfriend have more in common than just their Christianity: They are both divorcees.  The 29-year-old mother-of-three's latest flame Janson Moore finalized his divorce from his new wife of less than a year just three months ago, RadarOnline.com has reported.  It's unclear when he and Bristol started dating, but Janson, 24, filed for divorce from Makenzie Housenfluck, 25, on May 8, 2019, after 11 months of marriage, according to Texas court records obtained by the publication.  The filing states that 'the marriage had become insupportable because of discord or conflict of personalities between Petitioner and Respondent that destroys the legitimate ends of the marriage relationship and prevents any reasonable expectation of reconciliation.' They were each ordered to pay half of their credit card bills totaling $14,000 while in agreement to share responsibility for the debt they had accrued together.  Janson left the marriage with a 2010 Toyota Tundra, while Makenzie was awarded a 2006 Mazda CX5.    The former couple's divorce was finalized on August 6, 2019, in a hearing. Janson and Makenzie no longer follow each other on social media, though she is still Facebook friends with Janson's sister Madison.  His new girlfriend has also made friends with his sister, as Bristol and Madison are now following each other on Instagram. Bristol made her relationship with Janson Instagram official on Saturday when she shared a photo of herself posing with him at a Texas A&M football game, using the heart eyes emoji to caption the image.  He also posted the snap, referencing the Bible verse James 1:17 in his caption, which reads: 'Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning.'  The Texas native is currently working as a medical sales representative in Austin.  According to his Insta profile, he's a former Texas A&M quarterback and a 'follower of the living Christ.' He's also a proud dog dad, who manages a separate account for his German shorthaired pointer, named Remington Mak Moore. His Instagram shows off his affinity for hunting, Jesus, and shirtless post-workout selfies.  Janson's brief marriage doesn't seem to be a deal-breaker for the Teen Mom OG star, who was only married to her ex-husband Dakota Meyer for two years before they divorced in 2018.  Bristol and Dakota share two daughters: Sailor Grace, three, and Atlee Bay, two.  In June, she commemorated a year since her divorce on Instagram, writing: 'You guys, been a YEAR this month since the BIGG DDDDD, and those divorce papers were officially signed. 'Sometimes it’s hard to not feel like a complete loser with having another scarlet letter plastered to your forehead.. (add that to getting knocked up at 17 + two baby daddies.. just rackin’ those letters up y’all).' Before her marriage and subsequent divorce, she was briefly engaged to Levi Johnston, 29, with whom she shares a 10-year-old son Tripp. Between the two, she was romantically linked to pipeline worker Gino Paoletti from 2011 to 2012 shortly before dating professional snowmobiler Joey Junker. At 17, Bristol made more than a few headlines with her pregnancy as mom Sarah ran as John McCain's vice president during the 2008 presidential election.  She and Tripp later went on to their own reality show Bristol Palin: Life's a Tripp, which ran for one season in 2012. Most recently, she appeared for one season on Teen Mom OG before quitting the show this April. Bristol's parents, Sarah and Todd Palin, are currently going through a divorce, which Sarah only found out about through email.  'It was devastating. I thought I got shot... Except for the death of a child, I don't know what could be more [painful],' the 55-year-old said during a recent interview on James Dobson's podcast. The former governor of Alaska remained optimistic, however, adding: 'We're going through counseling now, so it's not over, over.' Sarah and her estranged husband put on a united front on Monday night when they came together to celebrate the birth of their daughter Willow's newborn twin girls.  She proudly shared a sweet photo of herself and Todd each cradling one of their grandchildren, who she revealed have been named Banks and Blaise.  Willow's joyful new arrivals were born just two months after it was revealed that Todd, 55, had filed for divorce from his wife of 31 years.   However, on Monday night, the couple put their differences aside in order to celebrate the birth of their fifth and sixth grandchildren.  
