christianity
{ By Luke Andrews For Mailonline   Published:  13:23, 13 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7680259/John-Humphrys-tells-Queen-one-big-guest-never-got-turned-down.html }
John Humphrys has told how the Queen turned down his request for an interview by saying: 'If one ever were to do such an interview it would certainly not be with you'. The veteran BBC Radio 4 presenter had been at a private lunch at Buckingham Palace when he asked the monarch. The world-famous presenter was speaking at the CSS Bonarjee Lecture, held in memory of the founder of the Today programme, at Caterham School in Surrey. Mr Humphrys, 76, told the assembled crowd: 'I asked the Queen if she wanted to do an interview with me, and she looked up at me and said: 'no'. 'I listed to her why it would be very important and how times had changed. She listened to me very politely, and didn't interrupt me at all.' But then Britain's longest reigning monarch dropped a bombshell, and said: 'Once more Mr Humphrys, if one were to do such an interview it would certainly not be with you'. Her majesty has repeatedly dodged presenters requests to do an interview with her.  And Mr Humphrys conceded that despite retiring after a career spanning more than 60 years, he would still like to interview Britain's the monarch. She has had a ringside seat to major international affairs for more than 67 years, he told the hall, meaning that she has an entirely singular perspective on some of the most major events in our history. The Queen has overseen 14 prime ministers so far, dined with major world leaders including Barack Obama, Chinese president Xi Jinping and Zimbabwe's former ruler Robert Mugabe, and managed a turbulent family life. Mr Humphrys also talked about the moment he was yelled at by the Queen's husband, Prince Philip, while in Mexico in 1975. They had landed at a dirt airstrip in the country, which had just a small shed at the side.  The Queen got out first and got into her car, and drove off in a convoy with police cars. 'There was one car left next to the shed so, we thought, that must be our car and got in and started following her', he said.  A little while later loud sirens started blaring behind them, so they stopped the car and got out. The Queen's convoy stopped too, and she got out to see what was going on. Behind them was Prince Philip, who had jumped out of a police car, and was gesticulating wildly while shouting: 'You stole my f***ing car!' At the lecture John also talked about his article on the Aberfan disaster, where a colliery spoil tip slipped onto a junior school in Wales, and his interview with Margaret Thatcher on the Today programme where she said 'choice' when he asked the then prime minister 'what is the essence of Christianity'. The presenter, who will be starting work on Mastermind, also told the audience that his best interview was with an old South African lady in 1994 who placed her hand on a pregnant woman's stomach and said that she was voting to make the unborn child's life better. After the event, he sold signed copies of his book A Day Like Today. 
