christianity
{ By Justin Enriquez For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:44, 11 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7671315/Hailey-Baldwin-keeps-casual-black-attends-Kanye-Wests-Sunday-Service-Inglewood.html }
She is devout and devoted to her faith as she is constantly being seen attending the celeb-favorite Hillsong Church. So it should come as no surprise that Hailey Baldwin wanted to check out what the hottest thing in Christianity was all about. The 22-year-old model was seen arriving for Kanye West's latest Sunday Service at The Forum in Inglewood, California. She kept her look demure as she sported all black including button-down top and trousers.  Hailey accessorized with a matching black bag featuring a platinum chain hanging from it along with a pair of white Nike Air Force 1 low-tops. Her signature blonde tresses were put up in a high ponytail as she wore minimal make-up on her porcelain skin finished off with a swipe of shiny pink lip. She rolled up in style as she came in driving her pale pink Lamborghini Urus which starts at $200K. Hailey was not joined by her famous 25-year-old husband Justin Bieber. She was, however, joined by her parents Stephen and Kennya Baldwin. Kennya, 51, kept it simple in all white including flowy top and cropped trousers along with red open-toed leather heels. Stephen, 53, donned plenty of camouflage including  hat and crossbody bag along with a baggy white long sleeve and jeans. Also absent from the event were Kim Kardashian or any of her famous sisters but her kids with Kanye West were there to support their father. Three-year-old son Saint, 21-month-old daughter Chicago, and six-month-old son Psalm were seen arriving with several security guards and nannys.  Hailey's outing comes after her husband Justin enjoyed a solo road trip to 'pray, think and reflect' last weekend. 'Took a road trip by myself to pray, think reflect.. time to get back to WIFEY,' he captioned a picturesque photo.  Hailey added, 'yayyyyyy,' in the comments section.  Justin seemed to be on top of the world as he posted idyllic views overlooking mountains and crystal blue lakes.  The Canadian native and niece of Alec Baldwin married in a courthouse ceremony in September 2018 before holding this reception party for friends and family one year on.    
