{ By Karen Ruiz For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  19:34, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8034703/Jihadi-bride-Alo-Bridget-Namoas-letters-Bassam-Hamzy-revealed.html }
A Sydney woman convicted of plotting a terror attack with her husband had written letters to Brothers 4 Life leader Bassam Hamzy and sent threats to NSW prison officials before her release.  Alo-Bridget Namoa and husband Sameh Bayda, both 22, were jailed after they were found guilty of planning a New Year's Eve terror attack in Sydney in 2015.   Namoa was sentenced to three years and nine months in 2018 with a non-parole period of two years and 10 months, which expired in January last year. She was released in December under strict parole conditions after she renounced her radical Islamic faith and claimed she had converted to Christianity.  At the time of her parole hearing, AFP revealed a trove of disturbing letters Namoa had written while she was serving time at Silverwater women's jail, as they called for stricter conditions for her release.  A series of letters obtained by The Daily Telegraph showed Namoa had written to notorious gang leader Hamzy several times, and had asked him to look after her husband after the couple was convicted. 'I'm trusting you to take him under your wing and look after him like his (sic) your own baby brother,' she wrote in April 2016. In another letter to Hamzy months later, she revealed her phone access had been revoked because she was charged with 'stupid stuff' after giving another inmate - who she described as a 'kafir b***h' - a razor. Namoa also sent a series of disturbing messages to the NSW Corrective Services Commissioner in which she said she missed watching 'kuffar' - a derogatory term for non-Muslims - having their 'necks sliced.' She also offered to send them photos of 'beautiful beheadings' upon her release, admitting AFP officers had her phone which contained the violent content. 'Do you think we could turn a kafir's brain into macaroni? I used to like people, smile in your faces but in my head I'm smiling cause I want all your necks haha,' she wrote.  'The blood of a Muslim is cheap, our men love death more than life. One day we will dominate, may we be the generation to raise the black flag.' Namoa also expressed her contempt for the government at the time, referring to the former Prime Minister as Malcolm 'pigbull' and a 'dirty Kafir' who 'needs to be put down'.  However, a letter written as recently as July 2019, showed Namoa referred to herself as a 'baby terrorist'.  She wrote a letter to Hamzy's cousin Amna Rima saying: 'please, good grief don’t give me a Hamze belting when I come see you … am I still your baby terrorist?'  According to the Telegraph, Namoa was slapped with 21 strict conditions last month, which will be in place until December this year. She is required to adhere to a curfew and report to Fairfield Police station every week as part of her conditions. She also has limited phone and internet access. Her husband - who also claimed to have converted to Christianity behind bars - was released last month.  At the time of the couple's trial, a court heard their phones contained a vast amount of extremist material, including graphic images and videos of beheadings and soldiers carrying Islamic flags. Namoa had described the couple as a jihadi Bonnie and Clyde and the Crown contended their plan was for a New Year's Eve attack by Bayda. The judge accepted Bayda's evidence that he was inspired by jihadist propaganda to commit a violent street robbery, with two friends, of two non-Muslims walking down the street that night. However, he backed out of the plan. 'It follows that I also accept that Bayda did not intend to carry out a New Year's Eve attack of a kind likely to lead to his death,' Justice Fagan said. He found Bayda had exaggerated to Namoa what he planned to do and she could have been taken in by his false boasting about a suicide mission. Both were only 18 at the time and 'demonstrably immature for their age'. He accepted their evidence that they had renounced their fanatical beliefs and were genuinely remorseful.   
