{ By Justin Enriquez For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:09, 5 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7652703/Kim-Kardashian-admits-fights-Kanye-West-religious-journey.html }
Kanye West is taking being a 'born again' Christian very seriously. Kim Kardashian appeared with her sisters Kourtney and Khloe on The Real on Tuesday as she revealed that she and her 42-year-old husband have had 'fights' over his religious journey. Things have even gotten to the point that the couple have removed the televisions from their children's rooms and even took away daughter North's, six, make-up. The 39-year-old reality star was asked if she supports her the rapper's new spiritual life journey as she replied:  'I do think that, you know, he is my husband.  'So, I obviously want to honor him and what he’s feeling. And he’s been going through this life change, and it’s mostly about the kids.' She said that as the children - North, three-year-old son Saint, 21-month-old daughter Chicago, and five-month-old son Psalm - are getting older , Kanye has become increasingly cautious about the type of imagery that is in their home. Kim explained: 'We got rid of TVs in the kids’ rooms and removed makeup from North's room – and he’s been very… had this, you know, epiphany of being this - not that he wasn’t an amazing dad - but being a little bit more strict as a dad and being very forceful on the imagery that’s in our household and what they see.  She said that she agrees that such drastic measures are good for their children but it has been a bone of contention when it comes to Kim herself. The reality star explained: 'But I’m always gonna be me… and so, we had that discussion and that fight.' The audience applauded Kim's statement about standing up for herself before she admitted that compromise is essential to a healthy relationship. She said: 'I think, at the end of the day that’s what marriage is. He’s gonna do things that I don’t agree with, and I support him, and vice versa.  'So, with this, it was like we were like just having this conversation of what is too much and I am a mother of four, like, I am gonna be forty next year, like, when is it time to...' The middle Kardashian sister is cut off by the audience's applause about her age when host Tamera Mowry-Housely asks her to clarify if she is talking about Kanye's religious journey. Kim explained: 'Yes. And just where he’s gone in his life and maybe things that he did a year ago, he probably wouldn’t be doing today.  'And I love that beautiful journey, as well. And I think that is such a great example for our kids. Um… but, you know, there’s also that fine line of, you know, staying firm and doing what you feel comfortable with.  'And I take a little bit of him and I respect what he’s saying and I totally compromise.' Kanye began doing his weekly Sunday Service in January and currently has the No. 1 album on the Billboard charts with his first ever gospel release: Jesus Is King.  The Real is hosted by Tamera, Loni Love, Jeannie Mai, and their brother Rob Kardashian's ex Adrienne Houghton (formally known as Bailon). Kourtney and Kim also discussed their recent trip to Armenia where they had their children baptized. Kourtney, 40, said:'Well we were super jet lagged but no it was so beautiful it was one of the oldest cathedrals, it's known as the oldest one in the world. Kim clarified that the Etchmiadzin Cathedral was built in 303AD. Kourtney continued: 'So that experience and having it in Armenia I think just made it really special and Kim and I also baptized ourselves.' Kim pointed out that Armenia was the first state to adopt Christianity as its official religion. She added: 'It was really important to us and it's special to do it in Armenia.' Khloe was noticeably absent from the trip as she was asked if she wanted to eventually do the same for True. The youngest Kardashian sister, 35, responded:'I want to I felt like she was just too young to take her this time. 'I definitely want to baptize her I just don't know when I want it to just be the right time in the right place.' Khloe also addressed her dating life as she was questioned by family friend Adrienne about what type of guy she was looking for in a partner. The youngest Kardashian sister replied: 'It’s not even the headspace, I just don’t know what the point of rushing is. 'If it’s natural, great. But, I’m just so in love with [daughter] True [Thompson] and I don’t feel incomplete or that I need to distract myself in any way. I’m totally good and happy and I just love it. 'My think my biggest thing is not having any sort of type, like whoever I vibe and connect with is just what I want to do. I just don’t really have any pressure on it.' Khloe split with True's NBA player father Tristan Thompson earlier this year after several cheating accusations. As there has been constant friction between the sisters the past few years, they were asked by Jeannie how they were getting along. Khloe said she couldn't wait for Kourtney's answer to the question as the eldest replied: 'They [Khloe and Kim] are up and down a lot but we had a great weekend in Palm Springs the week prior to the weekend.' Kim added that at the moment it is all good between the siblings before Rob's ex Adrienne asked why they are soloing out Kourtney. The eldest Kardashian sisters responded: 'Because they gang up on me all day. Kim quickly retorted: 'Welcome to my life. That's what you did to my my whole life until two years ago.' Kourtney insisted that Kim is trying to get her back as Khloe stays on either one side or the other. The trio also talked about their annual Christmas cards as they said there have been no plans as of yet for the family shoot but Kim offered that the family just hop onto her shoot with Kanye and the kids.  
