christianity
{ By Katy Forrester In Springfield, Missouri   Published:  02:37, 5 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7649721/PICTURE-EXCLUSIVE-Brad-Pitt-gives-parents-tender-farewell-hugs-rare-trip-Missouri.html }
Who says you can't go home again? Family man Brad Pitt embraced his parents at a local airport Saturday after a three-day stay in his hometown of Springfield, Missouri, where he ate home-cooked meals and celebrated his brother’s birthday. The actor gave his adoring mother Jane, 79, and father William, 78, hugs before saying goodbye to them and boarding a private jet with a guitar as he headed back to Los Angeles. Brad, 55, was clad in his trusty black newsboy cap, shades, a beige t-shirt and a cream jacket with matching satchel, black jeans and white sneakers, choosing to hold a cream cowboy hat he arrived in. The Once Upon a Time in Hollywood star, who was born in Shawnee, Oklahoma before moving to Missouri as a child, flew to the Midwest last Wednesday. Upon arrival, the Ad Astra actor headed straight for his parents' stunning gated home, built by his father in 2005. Instead of choosing to eat in nearby restaurants, where locals say he usually opts for a disguise, he enjoyed three days of his mom's home-cooked meals with his sister Julie, brother Doug and nieces and nephews. Sources told DailyMail.com that the family spent hours every night sat around the dinner table before bundling up by a roaring fire, where Brad is likely to have entertained his family by playing guitar, despite admitting he's a 'horrible player.' The father-of-six, who studied journalism at the University of Missouri before going into the entertainment business, told Sky Movies magazine in 2009: 'I play the guitar and I love music, but I really suck!' The Pitts also enjoyed Saturday morning together as they celebrated Doug’s 53rd birthday, before his parents drove Brad to the airport and said their goodbyes. Brad has previously spoken about his fondness of his hometown, telling GQ Magazine in 2017 that he grew up surrounded by cornfields and sometimes traveled to see the stunning Ozark Mountains nearby. 'I grew up in caves. We had a lot of caves, fantastic caverns. And we grew up First Baptist, which is the cleaner, stricter, by-the-book Christianity,' he explained. Noticeably absent from the family festivities, however, were the actor’s children: Shiloh, 13, Pax, 15, Zahara, 14 and twins Knox and Vivienne, 11. Their older sibling Maddox, 18, has moved to South Korea where he is a university student. Instead, the five children were with their mother Angelina, 44, who is currently filming her Marvel movie The Eternals in Fuerteventura, Spain. According to posts on social media, the actress spent thousands hiring out a function room at the luxury Sheraton Hotel for more than 500 cast and crew members for them to bond at a Halloween party before production began.   
