christianity
{ By Keith Griffith For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:51, 2 November 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7643249/Kanye-West-fire-55-Brunchella-VIP-breakfast-plate-church-service.html }
Organizers at a church service where Kanye West appeared are coming under harsh criticism online for pathetic food offerings prior to the event, sparking comparisons to the notorious failed Fyre Festival. West performed at the outdoor service on Friday night at Bethany Church in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, drawing a crowd of thousands for the program of Christian preaching and songs from his new album, Jesus Is King. Though the church service was free, organizers for the event reportedly charged $55 for a 'Brunchella' breakfast plate before the service, and at least one woman demanded her money back, posting a photo of her sad-looking Styrofoam breakfast plate to Facebook. A source close to the event says that West was not paid for his performance, and even covered his own travel expenses to attend to spread the Gospel. A spokesperson for West declined to comment to DailyMail.com.  The event itself was promoted by Affiliate Nation, and the venue, Bethany Church said it did not receive any compensation, directly or indirectly, from sales related to the event. The fundraiser itself was not being held for the church.  'As the venue location, and nothing else, Bethany Church simply allowed an event promoter to utilize the open field in front of the church crosses,' a spokesman in the church said in a statement. 'All artist logistics, including ticket sales and relevant financial agreements were handled by the event promoter.'   Nevertheless, a social media post quickly went viral complaining about the food sold by local organizers prior to the event.  'Can y'all cover a story on this because I want my coins back,' wrote Kimberly Kinchen in a post directed at a local news station. 'This is the wonderful & COLD brunch BUFFET we are being served,' said said, adding, 'the server looked at me crazy when I asked for another pancake.'  Others were quick to speak up online, posting photos of a pathetic looking VIP area marked by a lawn sign on a grassy knoll.  'Like they really had us hanging out on a hill away from the stage, promised we'd be ushered in later, only to hit us with 'nope',' one person wrote on Twitter. As crowds packed the area for the event, huge lines formed, with thousands jostling to get closer to the stage.  In frustration, some attendees even climbed trees to peer over the heads of the masses.  Tensions rose at the event as West's performance was delayed by hours after the scheduled start time of 6pm.  'It's now 730 and STILL, no Kanye. Same playlist still on repeat. Slowly losing sanity,' one person wrote on Twitter. The complaints inevitably sparked comparisons to Fyre Festival, a fraudulent 'luxury music festival' in 2017 that was the subject of multiple documentaries. However, not everyone was disappointed in Friday's event, as those who opted out of the brunch were able to attend for free. Many of those in attendance said they wanted to hear West's testimony for Jesus Christ. The songs on his new album chronicle West's journey through Christianity. 'I'm just excited to see that he's on a journey to see change in the world, so he's a big part of what we see as our society today. So I'm excited for the change,' local resident Erinn Smith told WAFB-TV. 'I came here to support Kanye, I'm supporting his whole salvation, So I want to be a part of that movement and part of God's revival. I think he's going to do great things and reach people that we can't reach,' said Josias Lucas. Last weekend, West admitted that he went deeply into debt last year. 'Last year I made $115 million and still ended up $35 million in debt,' West told the Late Late Show host James Corden. 'This year I looked up and I just got $68 million returned to me on my tax returns,' West continued, attributing the turnaround to God's intervention. 
