{ By Milly Vincent For Mailonline   Published:  11:29, 31 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7634659/Metal-detectorist-finds-Iron-Age-coin-depicting-noble-horse-worth-380-hours-search.html }
A first-time treasure hunter was stunned to hit the discovery of a life-time with his metal detector within the first few hours of using it - an Iron Age coin baring a intricately stamped horse. Ron Silvester, 69, from Buckinghamshire unearthed 2,000-year-old coin just three hours into his first ever attempt at metal detecting after agreeing to go along with a friend.   It has been identified as a 'Tasciovnos Ver' coin dating back to the Iron Age -  thought be worth around £380.    The coin, caused a burst of laughter from fellow detectorists after it was cleaned revealing the mule figure - with some of the group likening it to Shrek's side kick Donkey.  In its prime the piece would have depicted a noble horse but over time parts of the face have faded away. What is left of the engraving is an uncanny resemblance to the much-loved donkey that is voiced by Eddie Murphy in Dreamworks' Shrek movies.  Mr Silvester, a retired javelin coach, made the find in a field in Buckinghamshire. He had never even picked up a metal detector before and was only out accompanying a friend. The bizarre likeness was noticed by Mark Becher, who was handed the coin to clean as leader of the group of 40 detectorists.  He put the remarkable discovery down to 'beginner's luck' and said the finder was delighted. Mr Silvester plans to keep hold of the coin which was discovered more than three hours into the session. He said: 'I had never done any metal detecting in the past and just went out with my mate Mick who does it fairly regularly.  'Nobody else really found anything of any note and it's quite an experienced group. 'Mick was in a state of disbelief when I showed him and said a lot of detectors wait a lifetime for something like that. 'I'm going to keep hold of it at least for now because I'm really pleased with it for my first time.' Adding: 'It does really look like the Donkey from Shrek which is quite a funny little factor.'  Mark, leader of the detecting group, added: 'The fact it was found by a first-timer is amazingly lucky and the very definition of beginner's luck. 'He gave it to me and I just burst out laughing when I saw it. 'We had about 40 people out that day and some of the people who didn't have kids had no idea what I was on about. 'When I googled a picture Donkey everybody agreed and thought it was hilarious.' The first century BC was a time of turmoil for the Iron Age settlements being forced to the edge of Europe by the advancing Roman armies.  As Julius Caesar’s troops thrust towards northern Gaul, the Coriosolitae - the Celtic tribe that buried the coin hoard in Jersey - were being forced out of their home territory. Gaul - which covered modern day France and parts of surrounding countries - finally fell to the Romans in 51 BC.  Its northern section, known to the Romans as Armorica but covering present day Brittany and Normandy, had close links to southern Britain.   Julius Caesar observed that armies from Britannia were often to be fighting in alliance with tribes from Gaul against his men.  Home for the Celts was typically a roundhouse with thatched roofs of straw or heather and walls of wattle and daub when timber was plentiful.  Porridge, beer and bread made from rye and barley were commonly eaten and drunk from vessels made of horn.  The image of long-haired, moustachioed Celts depicted in the cartoon tales of Asterix and Obelix actually has a basis in historical records. Classical texts mention that both Celtic men and women had long hair, with the men sporting beards or moustaches.  One Roman, Diodorus Siculus, wrote: ‘When they are eating the moustache becomes entangled in the food, and when they are drinking the drink passes, as it were, through a sort of strainer’. With Christianity not coming to northern Europe until the 6th century AD, the Celts worshipped a variety of pagan Gods and practised polygamy.  Important religious festivals included Beltane, May 1, the beginning of the warm season, and Lugnasad, August 1, celebrating the ripening of the crops. Other feasts included Imbolc, February 1, when sheep begin to lactate, and Samhain, November 1, a festival when spirits could pass between the worlds, thought to have carried on in the tradition of Halloween.  As for leisure activities for both the young and old, glass gaming pieces have been found in later Iron Age burials, suggesting the Celts played board games.  Children may have occupied their free time by practising their skill at the slingshot - a common Iron Age weapon. 
