{ By Leah Simpson For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:25, 29 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7626841/Kanye-West-reveals-got-68million-tax-refund-year-hes-serviced-Christ.html }
 Kanye West has revealed he got a $68million tax return this year but the rapper believes he might not have been so fortunate if he hadn't turned to Christ recently. West, 42, recently confirmed he is a born again Christian and while promoting his new album Jesus Is King on The Late Late Show with James Corden, opened up about his finances. 'God is using me, as a human being. As humbly as I can put it, he's using me to show off,' West began in the special Airpool Karaoke segment, which took to the skies in a private jet rather than the usual car. 'Last year I made a $115million and still ended up $35million in debt,' he explained.  'This year I looked up and I just got $68million returned to me on on my tax.' With his Sunday Service choir behind him, West shared that while others might not be so quick to disclose details of the tax returns, he is willing to do so if it means helping spread the word and inspiring others to be saved. 'And people say don't talk about these numbers,' he continued. 'No, people need to hear someone - who has been put into debt by the system - talk about these kind of numbers now that they're serviced to Christ.'     West has been holding his Sunday Service worship services since the beginning of the year. He said on the program that with the success of his fashion business too, it's proof having faith works wonders.  'God is showing off! Yeezy [his brand] is worth $3billion dollars, number one searched brand in the world, he's showing out,' West exclaimed, adding: 'Kanye West works for God!'  It's not only religion that West hopes he can help push fans toward, elsewhere in the chat he claimed that marriage was 'uncool' until he tied the knot with Kim Kardashian in May 2014.    The rapper spoke candidly about his relationship with the 39-year-old,who he has been married to for five years. But he claimed marriage years are longer than human years. He went on to compare 'marriage years' to 'dog years,' with one dog year equivalent to seven human years, though every 'marriage year' is equal to 100 human years.   The rapper added that it feels like he's been married to the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star for '500 years.' Kanye continued: 'People thought it would be uncool to be married, and then I got married and people thought "oh that looks cool".' As James quipped: 'No one ever thought it would be uncool to marry Kim Kardashian. Everybody thought it would be cool to marry Kim', Kanye was quick to jump in: 'Well not Kris Humphries!'   He continued: 'It's more than cool, more than cool as hell or something, It's heavenly, it's great, it's magnificent.'    Chat then turned to their family life, with Kanye discussing how he spends his evenings with Kim and their children North, six, Saint, three, and Chicago, 22 months and Psalm, five months.   The Yeezus hitmaker explained: 'I don't like going out at nighttime, I like being at home with my family as much as possible.  'We eat dinner and we play with the kids and we'll put the kids to bed and then we'll go to bed and my wife watches Dateline and I read the Bible.'  James, who shares three children with his wife Julia Carey, then asked Kanye if he would recommend they try for a fourth.  Kanye was quick to encourage the comedian, stating: 'The richest thing you can have is as many children as possible.'  As James asked 'you would roll for a fifth?', Kanye was quick to respond 'for a seventh!' explaining that he and Kim were in agreement that having seven children would be the ideal.    James had been trying to get West on Carpool Karaoke only to have Kanye cancel on him twice, but the third time was the charm, it seems.  Aside from the Carpool Karaoke session taking place on a plane instead of a car, Kanye's appearance marked another first, with the choir performing the first live performance in the sketch's history.  Kanye also talked how his friends and family, while meaning well, didn't know how to get through to him. 'People in my family were praying for me, but they couldn't call me and scream at me. I'm a grown man,' Kanye said. 'But it was God that came and put this thing on my heart and asked if I was ready to be in service to him,' Kanye said, adding, 'I have no regret and no shame.'  Kanye also performed his hit song Jesus Walks from his 2004 album College Dropout, but he made some subtle changes to the lyrics. 
