christianity
{ By Mark Duell for MailOnline and Jemma Buckley For The Daily Mail   Published:  15:54, 29 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7626085/Met-Police-poster-girl-Nigerian-Big-Brother-sex-storm-flies-UK.html }
A Scotland Yard policewoman facing the sack for appearing on the Nigerian version of Big Brother without permission has finally returned to Britain. PC Khafi Kareem, 29, a poster girl for the force, defied bosses to appear on the TV show, where she struck up a raunchy romance with a fellow contestant. The force launched an investigation two months ago into the officer, who works in Lambeth, South London, for allegedly breaching professional standards. Miss Kareem, who lives in Hammersmith, West London, had been told by her bosses not to appear on the programme but decided to go ahead anyway during a period of unpaid leave. She was evicted from the show on September 15 but remained in Nigeria until last Friday when she arrived back at London Heathrow Airport. Miss Kareem has since appeared at a meet-and-greet with fans at a Nigerian restaurant in Lewisham, South East London, which she publicised on her Instagram account - and later claimed had attracted well-wishers from as far away as Scotland.  The churchgoing officer has also posted a series of photographs and videos talking about her excitement at her forthcoming 30th birthday party on November 3. In one video filmed as she walked along a street, she said: 'Hey everybody, I just wanted to say hello from London. It is cold, my eyes are watering. 'It is very, very cold. But I wanted to say this is a new week, guys, this is the beginning of a new week. And I just want to say, guys, go for your goals.  'It's a new week, it's a new start. I know last week has happened, whatever has happened has happened. But now it's a new week – let's go strong. 'I'm counting down to a new decade of my life - 30 years, three decades - and I've been doing a lot of reflection. And I'm just thinking, this life is for the taking. Miss Kareem posted a video message to fans while walking along the street in Hammersmith  'We have to take life by the horns and say let's go and get it. So whatever it is you're doing this week, guys, do that – take it by the horns, don't let anything stop you. 'Get up, get out, do what you've got to do. And let's stay winning – because all we do is win, win, win, no matter what. Love you guys. Bye.' Miss Karren is now expected to learn whether she faces a misconduct hearing following talks with Scotland Yardtop brass in the coming weeks. In an interview following her eviction last month, she told the Nigerian website Legit: 'No action has been taken by the Met Police authorities yet.  'In fact, they are waiting for me to come back to work. I will travel back to the United Kingdom soon and we would talk about all these things.' After allegations about her conduct emerged in August, a representative said she is a 'proud black female police officer who prides herself in her work'.  The statement said claims she slept with housemate Ekpata Gedoni on the show were in 'poor taste' and part of a 'repressive culture of shaming' women.  It added she had 'dedicated her youthful years [to] protecting and serving with her many skills which include the ability to speak at least five international languages'.    The officer was previously a shop assistant and part actress before enlisting with the Met as a special constable while studying at university. Miss Kareem joined the force fulltime in 2015, motivated by the fatal stabbing of a 16-year-old school friend. She was last year pictured standing next to Met Commissioner Cressida Dick and other female officers during a celebration of 100 years of women in the force. She also represented the Met at the red carpet premier of the film Captain Marvel alongside Deputy Assistant Commissioner Lucy D'Orsi. Miss Kareem, who speaks English, French, Italian, her native Yoruba and sign language, has worked spotting possible female genital mutilation victims at airports. She has also given lectures about what it is like to work as a black officer and has spoken of her ambition to become a detective. While taking part in Big Brother, she struck up a relationship with fashion entrepreneur Mr Gedoni. The Nigerian media had speculated that the pair have been sleeping together and published videos of them under bed sheets. The officer, whose mother is Christian and whose father is Muslim, told contestants on the show she had been celibate for eight years after converting to Christianity. She said in the house: 'When became a Christian, I just saw myself in a whole new light.'  On her YouTube channel she posted a video discussing the benefits of saving sex for marriage.   Scotland Yard confirmed to MailOnline today that Miss Kareem remains an officer and that the force is waiting for an investigation into her conduct to conclude. A spokesman said: 'A PC, attached to the Met’s transformation command, requested permission to take part in a reality television entertainment show in Nigeria. Permission was not given.  'The officer subsequently appeared on the show without authority. The Directorate of Professional Standards was informed and are carrying out an investigation into the circumstances.  'Prior to the refused request in relation to the show, the officer had asked for a period of unpaid leave for an unrelated reason. This was authorised.  'The Met did not support the officer’s appearance nor did she represent the Met whilst appearing on the show.  'All police officers have a duty to behave with professionalism and in a manner that does not bring the Met into disrepute whether on or off duty.  'Those who do not behave professionally risk breaching police standards of professional behaviour, and may be dealt with by way of misconduct proceedings.' 
