christianity
{ By Rebecca Lawrence For Mailonline   Published:  13:00, 29 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7625941/Kanye-West-claims-works-God-Lord-showed-creating-him.html }
Born again Christian Kanye West has claimed that his existence is an example of God 'showing off'.  Appearing on a special Airpool Karaoke segment for The Late Late Show with James Corden, the 42-year-old rapper spoke candidly about his faith and how finding God changed his life for the better.  Kanye has been holding his Sunday Service worship services since the beginning of the year, and recently confirmed his conversion to Christianity. Appearing on a private jet alongside his Sunday Service choir, his chat with James soon turned to his religion.    Deadpan, Kanye mused: 'God is using me, as a human being. As humbly as I can put it, he's using me to show off'. Claiming that his faith also impacted his finances, the star continued: 'Last year I made a $115 million and still ended up $35 million in debt.  'This year I looked up and I just got $68 million returned to me on on my tax... and people say don't talk about these numbers.  'No, people need to hear someone - who has been put into debt by the system - talk about these kind of numbers now that they're serviced to Christ.' Kanye continued: 'God is showing off! Yeezy [his brand] is worth $3 billion dollars, number one searched brand in the world, he's showing out. 'Kanye West works for God!'  Elsewhere in the chat, Kanye claimed that it feels as though he's been married for '500 years' and insisted that marriage was 'uncool' until he tied the knot with Kim Kardashian in May 2014.    The rapper spoke candidly about his relationship with Kim, 39, even admitting that they plan to have seven children.  Kanye, who just dropped his ninth studio album Jesus Is King last week, has been married to Kim for five years, but claimed marriage years are longer than human years. He went on to compare 'marriage years' to 'dog years,' with one dog year equivalent to seven human years, though every 'marriage year' is equal to 100 human years.   The rapper added that it feels like he's been married to the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star for '500 years.' Kanye continued: 'People thought it would be uncool to be married, and then I got married and people thought "oh that looks cool". As James quipped: 'no one ever thought it would be uncool to marry Kim Kardashian. Everybody thought it would be cool to marry Kim', Kanye was quick to jump in and quip, 'well not Kris Humphries!'  Kim was famously married to  He continued: 'It's more than cool, more than cool as hell or something, It's heavenly, it's great, it's magnificent.'  Chat then turned to their family life, with Kanye discussing how he spends his evenings with Kim and their children North, six, Saint, three, and Chicago, 22 months and Psalm, five months.   The Yeezus hitmaker explained: 'I don't like going out at nighttime, I like being at home with my family as much as possible.  'We eat dinner and we play with the kids and we'll put the kids to bed and then we'll go to bed and my wife watches Dateline and I read the bible.'  James, who shares three children with his wife Julia Carey, then asked Kanye if he would recommend they try for a fourth.  Kanye was quick to encourage the comedian, stating: 'The richest thing you can have is as many children as possible.'  As James asked 'you would roll for a fifth?', Kanye was quick to respond 'for a seventh!' explaining that he and Kim were in agreement that having seven children would be the ideal.    In the Carpool Karaoke sketch, James calls a random celebrity to drive to work with him, but this time, Corden's flight to Los Angeles is canceled so he asks Kanye for a ride on his plane, carrying his entire Sunday Service choir. James had been trying to get West on Carpool Karaoke only to have Kanye cancel on him twice, but the third time was the charm, it seems.  Aside from the Carpool Karaoke session taking place on a plane instead of a car, Kanye's appearance marked another first, with the choir performing the first live performance in the sketch's history.  Kanye also talked how his friends and family, while meaning well, didn't know how to get through to him. 'People in my family were praying for me, but they couldn't call me and scream at me. I'm a grown man,' Kanye said. 'But it was God that came and put this thing on my heart and asked if I was ready to be in service to him,' Kanye said, adding, 'I have no regret and no shame.' Kanye also performed his hit song Jesus Walks from his 2004 album College Dropout, but he made some subtle changes to the lyrics. He also performed Selah from his new album Jesus Is King, before the plane landed and the segment ended.   Jesus Is King was released on October 25, after weeks of delays.    
