christianity
{ By Kevin Kayhart For Dailymail.com   Published:  08:17, 25 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7612531/Kanye-West-makes-surprise-appearance-Jimmy-Kimmel-tweets-album-delay-afterwards.html }
Kanye West has always had the flare for the dramatic. And on Thursday, just hours before his much-anticipated album Jesus Is King was expected to drop, the hip-hop legend made a surprise appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live, which has been filming in Brooklyn, New York all week.  When he finally stepped out on stage, West declared that the album is 'out now,' but not long after the episode aired on the east coast he took to Twitter to essentially announce it had been delayed. 'Thank you for being loyal & patient,' the 42-year-old star began in the tweet. 'We are specifically fixing mixes on 'Everything We Need" "Follow God" & 'Water" With the album already behind schedule, he then tried to quell the growing complaints from fans by adding, 'We not going to sleep until this album is out!'  During his spot on Kimmel, West also talked about his religious awakening that inspired his album and the accompanied IMAX film of the same name. 'I feel that God is using me and using the choir and using my family to show off,' he said as reported by the Daily News.  West set up a brief clip from the film and and he revealed he would be back on Friday night's episode of Jimmy Kimmel Live to perform music from Jesus Is King. Earlier in the day,  thinking the much-hyped album would be ready for release, West took to social media to gave a sneak preview to the tracklist. It features a number of songs he shared during listening party events in New York in late September when the album was originally slated to be released. But the updated tracklist, shared by West, is drastically different from the one that wife Kim Kardashian posted on her social media platforms in August. On first notice, the new list features 11 songs, compared to the 12 that Kim K put out.  But the most glaring difference is that only four of the titles shared by the reality superstar remain on her husband's final list. That means either West changed the titles of many of the tunes, or he had a serious change of heart and scrapped some, or all, of the other songs altogether. West has been very open that the theme of the album is focused on his new-found devotion to Jesus and Christianity as a whole. And the song titles are a direct reflection of his faith with names like: Follow God, On God, God Is, Jesus Is Lord and Use The Gospel. Other title include: Closed On Sunday, Every Hour, Selah, Water, Hands On and Everything We Need.   Along with the new tracklist, Team West also posted about a pop-up store promo this coming weekend. 'WORD ON THE STREET IS WE GETTING A #JESUSISKING POP-UP STORE IN DOWNTOWN LOS ANGELES THIS WEEKEND,' it said in the caption, along with the prayer, alien and palm tree emojis.  Kanye fans can also expect another new studio album on Christmas Day. In an interview with Zane Lowe on Apple Music’s Beats 1, West revealed the forthcoming project -- Jesus Is Born -- is a 'Sunday Service album.' During the sit-down he also discussed a potential presidential run possibly in 2024; that he kicked an addiction to porn; and that his stay in a hospital due to a 'psychiatric emergency' in 2016 led him to Christianity.      'Now that I'm in service to Christ, my job is to spread the gospel, to let people know what Jesus has done for me,' he confessed. 
