{ By Kevin Kayhart For Dailymail.com   Published:  05:00, 25 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7612035/Kanye-West-posts-tracklist-Jesus-King-ahead-midnight-release.html }
Kanye West gave a sneak preview to the tracklist of his much-anticipated, and much-hyped, new studio album Jesus Is King, which drops at midnight on Friday. It features a number of songs the hip-hop superstar shared during listening party events in New York in late September when the album was originally slated to be released. But the updated tracklist, shared by West on his social media platforms, is drastically different from the one that wife Kim Kardashian posted on social media in August. On first notice, the new list features 11 songs, compared to the 12 that Kim K put out. But the most glaring difference is that only four of the titles shared by the reality superstar remain on her husband's final list. That means either West changed the titles of many of the tunes, or he had a serious change of heart and scrapped some, or all, of the other songs altogether. West has been very open that the theme of the album is focused on his new-found devotion to Jesus and Christianity as a whole. And the song titles are a direct reflection of his faith with names like: Follow God, On God, God Is, Jesus Is Lord and Use The Gospel. Other title include: Closed On Sunday, Every Hour, Selah, Water, Hands On and Everything We Need.   Along with the new tracklist, Team West also posted about a pop-up store promo this coming weekend. 'WORD ON THE STREET IS WE GETTING A #JESUSISKING POP-UP STORE IN DOWNTOWN LOS ANGELES THIS WEEKEND,' it said in the caption, along with the prayer, alien and palm tree emojis. The 42-year-old star is also releasing an accompanying IMAX film of the same name, which documents his Sunday Service series of shows that he started earlier in 2019.   Kanye fans can also expect another new studio album on Christmas Day. In an interview with Zane Lowe on Apple Music’s Beats 1, West revealed the forthcoming project -- Jesus Is Born -- is a 'Sunday Service album.' During the sit-down he also discussed a potential presidential run possibly in 2024; that he kicked an addiction to porn; and that his stay in a hospital due to a 'psychiatric emergency' in 2016 led him to Christianity.      'Now that I'm in service to Christ, my job is to spread the gospel, to let people know what Jesus has done for me,' he confessed. 
