christianity
{ By Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:52, 14 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7569545/Kanye-West-confirms-converted-Christianity-Washington-D-C-listening-party.html }
While it has been speculated for quite some time, Kanye West confirmed on Saturday night that he has converted to Christianity. The 42 year old rapper was in Washington D.C. over the weekend, where he put in a surprise appearance at Howard University and held a listening party of his new album, Jesus Is King. During the listening party, video obtained by TMZ, West confirmed that he is officially a Christian, though it's no surprise, considering his weekly Sunday Service tradition and the name of his new album itself. The video begins with West discussing a line in a Jay-Z song, where he said, 'forced into sports or entertainment.' 'I want to let you know that I am not here for your entertainment this afternoon. We are here to spread the gospel,' West began. He later added, 'Excuse me if I mispronounce anything. I am a recent convert. It means I recently got saved within this year.' West has been holding his Sunday Service worship services since the beginning of this year, though he hasn't confirmed his conversion until now. The video from this Washington D.C. listening party also featured a section with a saxophone solo, which sounds very much like Kenny G. He has been rumored to be featured on the album, and who West hired to play at his home for his wife Kim Kardashian on Valentine's Day. The video also includes a clip from one of his new songs entitled Closed On Sunday, which includes the lyric, 'Closed on Sunday, just like Chick-Fil-A,' referring to the fast food chicken restaurant being closed for religious reasons, which caused the crowd to cheer. As for the new album, Jesus Is King, West still hasn't confirmed when it will be released, since it was supposed to be released on September 27. West has yet to confirm when the gospel album will drop, but since he's been holding listening parties frequently, it may drop soon.  West and his wife Kim Kardashian also recently had their children, North, Saint and Chicago baptized in Armenia. There is still no word on when Jesus Is King will be officially released at this time, or when more details about the album will be released.  West released his last album Ye in 2018.   
