christianity
{ By Erica Tempesta For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:31, 2 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7529859/Designer-accuses-Business-Fashion-exploitation-appropriation.html }
Pyer Moss founder Kerby Jean-Raymond has accused Business of Fashion of 'exploitation' and cultural 'appropriation' in an explosive essay disassociating himself from the publication — after being added to its 'prestigious' BoF 500 list of people shaping the fashion industry.  The 32-year-old designer attended the seventh annual BoF 500 Gala in Paris on Monday, where guests were greeted by a Black gospel choir. He condemned the high-profile event in his Instagram Story that night, saying the publication was treating diversity and inclusion as a trend.  'This is some insulting s**t,' wrote Jean-Raymond, who has featured gospel choirs — dubbed The Pyer Moss Tabernacle Drip Choir Drenched in The Blood — at several of his fashion shows.   Designer Aurora James also accused Business of Fashion of appropriation at the gala, where a majority of the attendees were white.  'Not everyone gets to have a black gospel choir,' she wrote on her Instagram Story. 'I'm so confused. Aren't [we] supposed to be celebrating diversity? And inclusion? Not appropriation? We are at a fashion awards show. Fashion exploits more women of color than any other industry. Why is there a black gospel choir?'  Jean-Raymond later posted: 'Diversity and Inclusion is a trend for these folks. BoF 499, I'm off the list.'  The day after the high-profile event, the designer addressed the statements he made on Instagram in a detailed essay he published on Medium.  According to Jean-Raymond, his condemnation of Business of Fashion came after a series of disheartening interactions with the publication, which led him to be wary of attending the gala in the first place.  'We all got that talk when we were younger… the one that was like "if your instinct is telling you not to leave the house, just stay in…" I went against it,' he wrote. 'Last night, against my better judgment I went to the BoF 500 gala.'   Jean-Raymond said his issues with the publication started when he was invited to speak at the BoF Voices conference in London last year.  After making it clear that he did not want to do a group panel discussion, he was told he would be having a solo conversation with model Bethann Hardison. The designer envisioned it being a 'fashion version' of a 'Ted Talk.'  He explained his aversion to group panels stems from the way people of color tend to be lumped together, despite being 'vastly different' and having their own stories that warrant the same solo stages that white designers receive.  Jean-Raymond said he was mid-flight when his team was told that it was now a group panel, insisting it was 'their plan all along.'   He was to join Hardison, Patrick Robinson (the former creative director of Gap and Armani Exchange), and his friend and fellow designer LaQuan Smith in a conversation moderated by Tim Blanks.  Although he was insulted by the switch, he said he 'begrudgingly' went through with it because of the respect he has for the people he was to appear on stage with.    'The s**t was lowkey degrading fam,' he wrote, adding that the 'Salon' conversation that was held later that night was 'heated and problematic.'   Jean-Raymond didn't elaborate on what happened, but he said he and a few others left the campus the next day and ended the trip two days early.  Despite what transpired at the conference, he took a call from BoF's editor-in-chief Imran Amed a few months later.    'He said he’d seen the work I’d been doing with Pyer Moss and in the community and I’d been selected to be on one of the 3 covers of the BoF 500 magazine. Big "oh s**t"moment for me,' Jean-Raymond recalled.  He said their conversation led to a series of phone calls and meeting in Paris in which he shared his ideas, projects he was working on, and news of his Reebok appointment a few months before it was announced — all because he was under the impression that he'd be featured on the cover.  'In all these calls and talks he’s picking my brain for names to include on this cover with me and a list of "diverse" people for the 500,' he wrote, saying he named numerous trailblazers, including Jessie Williams, Noor, and Lizzo.  Jean-Raymond said he later learned via text that he wouldn't be on the cover, and at that moment he knew he 'was being played for info.'  Dapper Dan, Adut Akech, Pierpaolo Piccioli, and Chika ended up being the publication's September cover stars, and Jean-Raymond is only mentioned on the BoF 500 list.  Seeing the Black gospel choir at Monday night's gala was the tip of the iceberg for Jean-Raymond, whose frustration with Business of Fashion and it's editor-in-chief had grown throughout the night.  He recounted how Amed got on stage to thank people who inspired the publication to focus on 'diversity and inclusion' for the September issue but excluded him.  'To have your brain picked for months, be told that your talk at the "Salon" and work inspired this whole thing, and then be excluded in favor of big brands who cut the check is insulting. Pay attention to the brands on the covers,' he wrote.     Jean-Raymond said he just about had it when the Black gospel choir came back on stage to perform.    'This man, Imran, turns into Kirk Franklin and starts dancing on the stage with them and s**t. To a room full of white people. So now we at 90%. What inspires people to do this? What motivates someone to feel that they have the right to do a Kirk Franklin dance on the stage?' he asked.  'Because ultimately that level of entitlement is the core issue. People feeling like they can buy or own whatever they want … if that thing pertains to blackness. We are always up for sale. 'So now we’re here. In short, f**k that list and f**k that publication. I take no ownership of choirs, Christianity or curating safe spaces for black people. That’s a "We" thing,' he continued.  'Homage without empathy and representation is appropriation. Instead, explore your own culture, religion and origins. By replicating ours and excluding us — you prove to us that you see us as a trend. Like, we gonna die black, are you?' 'I’m offended that you gaslighted me, used us, then monetized it and then excluded us in the most disrespectful way to patronize companies that need "racist offsets."  'And I’m offended that you all made those beautiful black and brown people feel really terrible to the point where some of my friends said "this is helpless," "this s**t will never change" and others left in tears,' he added. 'I was fine until they weren’t fine. So I hit 100%.'  Jean-Raymond went on to accuse Business of Fashion of exploiting his people's 'plight, culture, and struggles' to benefit its bottom line.    'I think your brand is exploitative, you proved that it’s fueled by corporate interest and s**y business practices. I understand that you have to make money, we all are selling something, but dawg, not your soul. And not ours,' he wrote at the end of his statement.  Amed responded to Jean-Raymond's criticism with an essay of his own, a 'Letter from the Editor' titled: 'Why I’m Listening to Kerby Jean-Raymond.'  'I can also assure you that this topic [of inclusion] is not a trend for me either. I feel strongly about this because for most of my life, I’ve felt like an outsider myself,' he wrote. 'Growing up, I was the [sic] always the smallest kid in the class. As the son of Ismaili Muslim immigrants to Calgary, Canada from Nairobi, Kenya, I was also the only brown kid in my class. And, although I didn’t know it then, I was gay.'  The editor-in-chief specifically addressed the use of the gospel choir at Monday night's gala, explaining the times that he felt happiest as a child were at choir rehearsals.  'The first time I remember feeling included was when I discovered choir and musical theatre in fifth grade. I felt completely differently about myself at our evening rehearsals compared to how I felt at school during the day because I could just be myself,' he said.  'This is one of the reasons why I set out to build an inclusive culture at BoF, where our 110 employees come from almost 30 different countries and many different races, genders, socio-economic backgrounds and sexual orientations.'   Amed failed to address his alleged treatment of Jean-Raymond or the designer's accusations that he used him to help build this year's list of BoF 500 honorees, though he said he hoped they could be 'allies' in bringing people together.   'I am deeply sorry that I upset Kerby and have made him feel disrespected,' he wrote. 'While we may disagree in our opinions on the gala and the details of our exchanges over the past year, Kerby has my complete respect and I would appreciate the opportunity to sit down with him and learn more about his concerns and how we at BoF can do better, especially as we try to address important topics like inclusivity.' Business of Fashion declined to give further comment upon DailyMail.com's request.   
