christianity
{ By Henry Martin For Mailonline   Published:  12:47, 2 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7528633/Townhouse-home-Victorian-condom-factory-goes-market-1-2-million.html }
A townhouse that was previously home to a Victorian condom factory is on the market for £1.2million. The Grade II listed property used to be owned by India rubber manufacturer Alexander Pollock who ran a company making condoms out of his back garden, estate agents Mundays revealed.  Such was the controversy around contraception at the time, children living next door to the Peckham, south London property were forbidden to look over the wall. Now, more than a century later, the owners of the three bedroom detached house are hoping to penetrate the property market after listing it for sale. The estate agents selling it are expecting some stiff competition from potential buyers. Records show that Mr Pollock and his family lived in the townhouse - which boasts a south-facing paved garden of more than 100 feet, spacious kitchen-diner and large reception room - from 1891 through to the 1960s. It is believed he made the 'unmentionable' product from the late 1890s in an outbuilding in the back garden. In the 1901 census he was described as an 'air ball manufacturer' while in the 1911 edition he was listed as a 'toy balloon manufacturer'. In 1939 his son took over and was described as 'the maker of Indian rubber goods'. It is unclear when the sheath factory ceased trading but children in the neighbouring houses were banned from talking to the Pollock children. The family sold the 1,468 square feet, three bed home in the 1960s.  Becky Munday, of estate agents Munday's, said: 'It's a brilliant property and you really can feel the history when you're in there. 'Having an interesting backstory certainly helps when you're selling a house and it doesn't get much more colourful than this. 'Inside I would say it is maybe slightly dated but any buyer can easily bring it up to their own tastes. 'To get a detached property in London is really rare and we've already been taking some good interest in it. 'The south facing garden where the factory once was is another brilliant feature and we'd expect to find a buyer soon.' The house is laid out over four floors and has three bedrooms, a spacious kitchen-diner and large reception room. Outside where the factory once operated is now a smart, paved garden. At the same time Alexander Pollock was making condoms from his back garden, Durex was operating as the London Rubber Company. In 1929 it changed its name to Durex, standing for 'Durability, reliability, and excellence.' Larger factories were set up by Durex in the 1960s when and the rubber shape and texture was more like condoms of today. In Ireland legal condom sales were only allowed for the first time in 1978 by prescription only. 15,000 BC: The oldest known depiction of a condom is in a painting on the walls of the Grotte des Combarrelles, a cave in France. The paintings are believed to be between 10 and 15,000 years old. 150 AD: Condoms appear in the legend of Minos, written down by Antoninus Liberalis in 150 AD. According to historians, this suggests that condom use was widespread during antiquity. 1494: An outbreak of syphilis decimates the population of Europe, before spreading to Asia where the disease devastated the Chinese people in 1505. Some have claimed outbreaks such as this were in part due to the rise of modern religions such as Christianity and Islam, which forbade the use of birth control. 1564: Italian doctor Gabriele Falloppio publishes De Morbo Gallico (The French Disease), which was the first medical treatise to suggest the use of condoms as a means of tackling syphilis. 1666: The English Birth Rate Commission ascribes falling birth rates to the use of 'condons' - the first recorded use of the word. 1640: Condoms made from animal intestines have been discovered, which date from the English Civil War. The prophylactics, discovered in a toilet, were believed to have been used by the troops of King Charles I - mainly on each other. 1708: By the 18th century, condom use had become widespread, although they weren't to everyone's taste. John Campbell, 2nd Duke of Argyll, unsuccessfully tried to have them banned in 1708, while in 1717, Daniel Turner, an English doctor, published a text condemning condom use. 1840: Although uncomfortably thick, condoms had become affordable for all and were widely promoted to the working classes - all thanks to the discovery of rubber. 1870: The first major condom manufacturer, E. Lambert and Son of Dalston, opens its doors in London. 1912: German entrepreneur Julius Fromm invents a new and speedy way of making condoms called 'cement dipping', which involved adding petrol to rubber to make it liquid before dripping it over a glass mould. Fromm was also the first to make branded condoms. 1914: The German military becomes the first to promote condom use among troops. By the time World War One broke out in 1914, all countries, except the UK and the USA, handed out condoms to their soldiers. As a result, by the end of the war, the US army had been forced to deal with nearly 400,000 cases of STDs. 1920: Latex was invented, revolutionising the condom in the process. Youngs Rubber Company was the first to manufacture a latex condom, which was sold under the Trojan brand. 1932: The London Rubber Company became the first European company to make latex condoms, which they sold under the trade name, Durex. 1941: Germany outlaws civilian use of condoms and directs the country's entire supply to the military. All combatant nations in World War Two provided their soldiers with vast quantities of prophylactics. 1955: Post war, condom use became widespread, with 60 per cent of married British couples and 42 per cent of American pairings regularly using them. 1967: France repeals its birth control laws, followed by Italy in 1971. The last country to get rid of anti-condom laws was the Republic of Ireland, which did so in 1993. 1981: The AIDS epidemic begins, leading to widespread public health campaigns in Western countries between 1985 and 1987. As a result, condom use skyrockets, particularly in Switzerland, where condom use shot up by 80 per cent. 1994: Condom sales begin to decline slightly as the fear of AIDS diminishes in the West. Nevertheless, globally condom use continues to grow, with experts predicting that 18.6 billion will be used every year by 2015.    
