{ By Charlie Moore For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:52, 1 October 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7523107/Rodney-Lynn-Coffs-Harbour-Christian-Community-School-says-Greta-Thunberg-mental-problems.html }
A Christian private school principal has savaged 16-year-old climate campaigner Greta Thunburg and called her a 'little girl with mental problems'.  Rodney Lynn, head of Coffs Harbour Christian Community School, wrote a letter to pupils and parents on September 26. He did not mention Greta by name but told pupils not to pay attention to her impassioned speech at the UN which went viral last week. In the speech, the Swedish activist tearfully urged politicians to take action on climate change to stop the planet from being destroyed.   But Mr Lynn dismissed her as 'a little girl from Scandinavia' who was full of 'doomsday waffle talk'.  In the letter seen by the ABC, he said she was a 'little girl with self declared various emotional and mental problems that she thinks give her a special insight into a pending doom'. 'My life experience has taught me that the doomsday predictors are just attention getters.'  In a message to his pupils, he added: 'Do not be afraid. Your world's future is in the hands of God, not in the predictions of a little girl and false prophets.' Parent Trevor Crawford told the ABC was 'absolutely disgusted' by the letter. Dr Greg Jenks, The Dean of Grafton Cathedral, criticised the remarks and said Mr Lynn's views were a 'horrible expression of Christianity'.  Daily Mail Australia has contacted the school for comment.  Speaking at the United nations last Monday Greta broke down in tears while furiously scolding international delegates for not taking responsibility for fixing the planet's warming climate.  A host of Australian celebrities lined up to criticise Greta after her speech. Her supporters said most of the criticism came from white, middle-aged men. Former Today show host Karl Stefanovic said the 16-year-old was simply a prop for radical climate activists who want to appeal to a young audience. 'She's being managed and her stance is being used by activists,' he said while hosting 2GB radio station on Tuesday afternoon. 'She was very fired up wasn't she? I thought "what are my kids doing on school holidays next week?" Not doing that.' Stefanovic quizzed New South Wales One Nation leader Mark Latham on the subject. Mr Latham said Greta was being 'over-dramatic' and got 'carried away' and slammed the girl's parents for exposing her on the international stage.   He said: 'I know Asperger's is a factor there but I think any parent listening would think "would you really want to put that much pressure on a child?".'   Controversial football personality Sam Newman labelled Greta an 'annoying little brat' in a scathing Twitter post. 'This annoying little brat addressed the UN on the so-called climate crisis. Who lets this s*** have a platform? Mendacious, inbred sycophants, that who.'  And US President Donald Trump mocked Thunberg in a tweet following her address.  'She seems like a very happy young girl looking forward to a bright and wonderful future. So nice to see!' President Trump tweeted.       
