{ By Cailey Chella For Dailymail.com   Published:  02:38, 30 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7519025/Kim-Kardashian-brings-kids-minus-baby-Psalm-Kanye-Wests-Jesus-King-album-release-NYC.html }
Hot off a Sunday Service at the Great Allen Church in Queens, Kim Kardashian West and Kanye West again took to the streets with their kids as they were spotted heading to an album listening session in New York.  The outing comes after Kardashian West, 38, and her rapper husband, 42, took to Instagram to announce in a now deleted post that Ye would be dropping his album, Jesus Is King, on Sunday following the listening session. The couple make the occasional family affair as all their children except baby Psalm were seen heading out together. Kardashian West looked stylish in black leather pants, a camouflage jacket and a white blouse, accessorizing with a two gold necklaces.  The KKW Beauty entrepreneur opted for a full face of glam complete with contoured cheekbones, a dark smokey eye and a plump nude lip.  The reality TV star wore tan boots on her feet as she held the hands of North, 6 and Chicago, 1. Chicago matched mom in a camouflage jumper while North wore a navy blue one.  The law student wore her long raven locks down in loose curls as West followed behind her in a graphic t-shirt and denim jacket. Her 3-year-old son, Saint, also trailed behind as he was seen in a green tracksuit while holding his buddy's hand. Not seen with the group was the couple's 4-month-old son, Psalm. The family's appearance comes ahead of the release of West's new album, Jesus Is King, that is scheduled for release Sunday night. Originally set to debut on Friday, Kardashian West said Ye's team just needed to make a few small changes.  'He's dropping the album Sunday. Just a few final tweaks to the mixes,' she said. The mother of four first announced the new album on Twitter in late August when she tweeted a photo of the track list and release date. It was recently revealed that West will be also releasing a documentary sharing he behind-the-scenes of making the album.  West's explosive and very public embrace of Christianity has finally come to a head with anticipation building around the upcoming gospel album.  Sunday also saw the rapper receive some backlash from Christians on Twitter, with some calling him a 'self proclaimed god' and others implying he's weaponized his faith for album sales.  Christian Kaleina, 68, told the New York Post that people ridicule her faith 'because of the strange and weird behavior of people like this man.'   'He may be trying to understand Jesus in his own limited way and we cannot judge another’s soul. People who follow Christ sense something is not right with this scene,' she said. On Friday, 'Jesus is King' was trending on Twitter and between the fanfare were pockets of Christian's who found the music venture sacrilegious. However, it appears Kardashian West is still supporting her husband on his latest music venture as she posted a loved up kissing photo with her man earlier on Sunday.        
