{ By Adam S. Levy For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:49, 30 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7518939/Kanye-West-impressively-freestyle-raps-spirited-Sunday-Service-cathedral-New-York.html }
Kanye West impressively performed a freestyle rap for his latest Sunday Service held at The Greater Allen A.M.E. Cathedral of New York in Jamaica, Queens. The Jesus Walks rapper, 42, whose Jesus Is King album failed to drop hours later on Sunday night following a listening party, put on an energetic performance with the local congregation and the choir.  Kanye had churchgoers on their feet as they formed a small crowd at the front of the cathedral singing and dancing in front of the musician.  Scroll down for video  During his freestyle, Kanye rapped the words: 'Sunday service/Don't get nervous/Rap with a purpose/Not just for surface.'   The Grammy-winning artist wore a denim jacket, grey sweatpants, a white T-shirt and black sunglasses, he accessorised with a thick gold chain necklace.    Kanye's wife Kim Kardashian, 38, and their kids, North, six, Saint, three, and Chicago, 20-months, turned up to support the star.  While, according to TMZ, stars Akon, Swizz Beatz, Alexander Wang and close family friend Jonathan Cheban were also present during Sunday Service.    Celebrities who have attended Kanye's weekly services in the past include Brad Pitt, Idris Elba, Teyana Taylor, Justin Bieber and Travis Scott, among others. Just hours after Sunday Service, Kanye hosted a listening session of his new album Jesus Is King at 8:30pm at Manhattan's United Palace.  Fans were expecting the album to drop on Sunday night after a year of reschedules and following his wife Kim teasing on her Instagram story: 'Kanye’s doing a listening session in Chicago tomorrow, then NYC Sunday.  'He’s dropping the album Sunday. Just a few final tweaks to the mixes.' Yet as midnight hit no music appeared to be released on streaming services such as Apple Music and Spotify with Kanye's followers taking to social media to ask where the album is.  This isn't the first time this has happened and the rapper's Ye album was released several hours after the midnight deadline following a listening party. Kanye's new album is reported to be a '35-minute religious rant about the evils of the modern world'. According to The Sun, the rapper's lyrics include old religious texts with one track, called Water, claiming the body is 90% water and a different song, Closed On Sunday, hitting out at Instagram. The publication also claims that Kanye goes on to slam his lavish life in Los Angeles in LA Monster.   West's 'Jesus is King' album is charming to longtime fans who have posted about their enthusiasm across social media. To others, it's alienating.   68-year-old Christian Kaleina told NY Post people ridicule her faith, 'because of the strange and weird behaviour of people like this man.' 'He may be trying to understand Jesus in his own limited way and we cannot judge another’s soul. People who follow Christ sense something is not right with this scene.' On Friday, 'Jesus is King' was trending on Twitter and between the fanfare were pockets of Christian's who found the music venture sacrilegious. One user wrote: 'Jesus is King is trending on Twitter except no one is talking about Jesus of Nazareth, the saviour of the world & son of the living God who created heaven and earth.' 'They're talking about the self-proclaimed god Kanye West who is a mere man..' Another wrote: 'Yes. He preaches "Yeezus" in order to mu$ic.' One woman pointed out the alleged hypocrisy between West's Christianity and past descriptions of women.  'The way he talks about women in his other/recent albums, I’m skeptical he knows the gospel. I am much more willing to believe Chance is born again than Kanye.'  It comes after Kim called Kanye's weekly Sunday Service 'just a very spiritual Christian experience' in a chat with Elle in April.  'It’s honestly more like a healing experience for my husband,' she said. 'It’s just music; there’s no sermon.  'It’s definitely something he believes in - Jesus - and there’s a Christian vibe. But there’s no preaching.'   
