christianity
{ By Kylie Stevens For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:10, 24 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7496473/Former-ice-addict-reveals-turned-life-crowned-Miss-Rotorua.html }
A former ice addict who has served time behind bars has managed to turn her life around to become a beauty pageant queen. Evarna Koia, 21, was crowned Miss Rotorua in her hometown, in New Zealand, on Saturday night, just two years after she was jailed for stealing a car. Ms Koia has been openly frank about her former life of drug addiction and crime which spiralled out of control after she moved around a lot as a child. After a troubled childhood, she began smoking ice at just 14.  'I unknowingly struggled to seek love and belonging in the world. As I felt abandonment. That instantly bought me to a path of addiction,' Ms Koia recently revealed on her official Facebook page.   Following a stint in youth prison at 15, Ms Koia began taking ice intravenously. 'I was still seeking belonging. I found myself in the company of dealers, gangsters and people seen to have lost it all. I sat with anyone who was broken,' she recalled.  'I went back to the drugs and started using I.V use. I went to prison because I tried to runaway from reality.'  The beauty queen said her teens were very lonely. 'I was doing a lot of robberies . . . I guess in a way that was my hobby,'  Ms Koia told the New Zealand Herald this week. 'There were plenty of times I would cry, be exhausted and be in the deepest hole. 'If anything, I was selfish and didn't know what I was doing to my family . . . I didn't see how much they were suffering.' The turning point came after she was sent back to jail.  Ms Koia had driven a stolen car around North Island until she was eventually caught and surrounded by five police cars. It was in prison where she received the wake up call she needed to transform her life and discovered Christianity.  'I discovered one important decision I would make for the rest of my life. Two choices, you repeat this jail sentence for the rest of your life, or you decide in your heart to surrender to Jesus Christ,' Ms Koia wrote. Ms Koia has transformed her life since being released from prison. She has joined a church, reconnected with her family, studied business and returned to Rotorua, where she now facilitates a church program to empower women. Being crowned Miss Rotorua capped off her incredible life transformation. She hopes her story will inspire other young women. 'I believed, I came & I conquered. The many battles that tried to take me down, I stood firm and fearless,' Ms Koia posted following her pageant victory. 'Because I don't just represent myself, I represent my whanau, my legacy sisters, recovering addicts, Destiny Church, my hapu and the whole city of Rotorua.'  Miss Rotorua pageant director Kharl Wirepa believes Ms Koia will make a difference and said her unique story made her stand out to the judges. 'She's gone from prison to pageant and she's really proven that anything can happen and everyone deserves a second chance,' he told Te Ao. 'It's really unique with her, and I feel she can connect with so many different women [and] people on so many different levels.'   
