christianity
{ By Rebecca English, Royal Correspondent In Cape Town For The Daily Mail and Amie Gordon For Mailonline   Published:  13:43, 24 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7498827/Meghan-Markle-seen-public-wearing-headscarf-time.html }
The Duchess of Sussex today donned a headscarf following in the footsteps of Princess Diana as she joined her husband at South Africa's first and oldest mosque.  To mark Heritage Day, a public holiday in South Africa when the nation celebrates its culture, diversity and traditions, Meghan and Harry paid a visit to the historic Auwal Mosque in Bo-Kaap, Cape Town.  Meghan, 38, changed out of her casual clothes and wore a floor-length olive dress with a scarf to cover her head, even helping a woman with her veil when she stepped inside the mosque. Diana wore a veil during a visit to the Badshahi Mosque in Lahore on a royal tour of Pakistan in 1991.  During their visit, which aimed to promote dialogue between faiths, the royal couple met with Christian priests and Rabbis together with Christian, Jewish and Muslim youth leaders. Harry told one youngster he sometimes feels 'overwhelmed' by the world's problems. Peter Oki, 18, an Anglican who attends a Jewish school, said: 'Harry said he often woke up and felt it's hard to get out of bed because of all the issues.' Earlier in the day Harry and Meghan joined in a 'bonding' ceremony on a beach outside the city with a group of surfers who use their sport to help children beat mental health issues. The couple, who left Archie with his nanny back at their base, later had afternoon tea at the home of a Cape Town family, where Meghan spoke about motherhood and how the 'transition was smooth' as Archie was such an 'easy baby'.    Scroll down for video  Libo Metel, 11, hugged both Meghan and Harry when they stopped to talk to crowds waiting for them in the historic Bo Kaap neighbourhood. She said of her meeting with Meghan: 'I gave her a flower, a yellow rose and she said 'can I get a hug? 'You're the sweetest person in the world and I'm like 'what the heck?!' and then I gave her a hug and then the prince asked me 'did you give her a hug?' and he gave me a hug too.' Asked who had the best hug, Libo replied: 'The queen! Meghan. I felt the love and the care. Built in 1794 during the British occupation of the Cape of Good Hope, the Auwal Mosque is the first and oldest mosque in South Africa.  Leaders at the mosque say this is backed by evidence within 'very strong oral tradition' which confirms that Imam Abdullah Kadi Abdus Salaam, also known as Tuan Guru, was the first Imam at the Masjid.  The Auwal Masjid came into existence in 1794 during the first British occupation of the Cape of Good Hope and was the main religious institution during the years 1804 until 1850.  It is also the first to have practiced most of the Cape Muslim traditions. The Auwal Masjid is a symbol of the struggle of Cape Muslims for the recognition of Islam and their freedom to worship.  The mosque was built on land belonging to the freed slave Coridon van Ceylon. Source: Auwal Masjid  'I felt very special. It was just awesome. Everybody has had a good time seeing them.' Libo was with a group called Brave, which provides rehabilitation through yoga and meditation to people with limited mobility due to physical trauma or injury. Volunteers from the Bo Kaap organisation handed the royal visitors packages of handmade soaps and bracelets to take with them and explained their work to yoga-fan Meghan. Volunteer Indrani McMillan said: 'They looked so happy, they looked so taken with the vibe. It's so amazing, they really know how to stir up a party effect.' Women do not have to cover their heads in all mosques, but it is usually considered a sign of respect. Many Islamic places of worship provide headscarves for non-believers to wear when they visit.  This morning the couple had heaped praised on each other's parenting skills as they labelled one another 'the best mum' and 'the best dad'.  Earlier in the day they had visited Monwabisi Beach on the outskirts of Cape Town, to learn about the work of Waves For Change, which helps vulnerable children from township and challenging communities through the power of surfing.  They also heard about the Lunchbox Fund, one of four charities to benefit from public donations made following the birth of their son Archie, who has joined his parents in South Africa for his first official royal tour.  The Duchess hugged and joked with youngsters before the couple were asked to declare their personal strengths during a 'power hand' bonding exercise - but Harry cheekily ducked the task and invited his wife to share instead.  Meghan, 38, looked bashful as she tried to think of something and laughed as she said dancing as not her strong point, but suggested parenting was a new strength that she and Harry, 35, were 'learning and developing'.  Turning to her husband, she declared him 'the best dad', while Harry - who smiled and looked his wife in the eye with a loving 'ahhh' - called her 'the best mum' before they shared a tender kiss in front of the crowd.  They left in separate cars as new mother Meghan went back to the High Commissioner's residence to look after four-month-old baby Archie while Harry travelled on a South African Maritime Police Unit RIB to Kalk Bay Harbour. The couple had travelled to the picturesque beach setting to learn how surf mentors are helping youngsters in need. They copied the young surf mentors as they took part in an 'energising' 'Hey Joe' game, involving finger clicking and chanting. And there was even time for a little meditation, which Meghan - who has long been a proponent of daily mindfulness, as has Harry - took part in particularly enthusiastically closing her eyes and clasping her fingers. Harry later visited Kalk Bay Harbour, to learn about their work combating the poaching of abalone, a type of sea snail that is at critically low levels, as a plate of the marine delicacy is worth more than its weight in gold - £420 a plate - to Chinese diners.  Asked what was the most pressing global issue when it came to dealing with the stigma around mental health, Meghan replied: 'It's just getting people to talk about it and talk to each other, right? 'And you see that no matter where you are in the world, if you're a small community or a Township, if you're in a big city - it's that everyone is dealing with a different version of the same thing. 'Globally I think there's a bit of a consciousness crisis, and so the fact we're able to be here together to see on the ground so much good work that's being done, just because people are willing to talk to each other about it and someone's willing to listen is huge. 'And that can apply to being here, certainly can apply to being in London, LA - doesn't matter where you are, we're all sort of trying to power through and find some optimism.'  Harry added: 'I think most of the stigma is around mental illness, we need to separate the two... mental health, which is every single one of us, and mental illness, which could be every single one of us. 'But I think they need to be separated, the mental health element touches on so much of what we're exposed to, these experiences that these kids and every single one of us have been through. The mid-year population of South Africa in 2018 was around 57.73 million, according to Statistics South Africa (Stats SA) estimates.  This represented an overall increase of 1,55% between 2017 and 2018. According to Stats SA's Community Survey 2016, the distribution of religious beliefs in South Africa is as follows showed 43,423,717 people followed Christianity.  This compared to some 892,685 followers of Islam. Source: Gov.za  'Everyone has experienced trauma or likely to experience trauma at some point during their lives. 'We need to try, not eradicate it, but to learn from previous generations so there's not a perpetual cycle. 'What's amazing here just in a day and half - barely - conversations keep happening with all sorts of different people. So they've been through it and we can learn so much from that.' Asked what the message was they were trying to get across, Meghan replied: 'I think what's amazing about being here today as you can see, there's so much good happening in the world, and there's so much positivity and all of this diversity and inclusivity - think the focus is on that...' Harry said people from the local community who had suffered traumatic experiences were working with Waves for Change and were not only sharing their experiences but 'able to help the younger generation'. The duke added there was a whole generation of children with 'no role models at all' but now they were being given an opportunity. Highlighting the nearby townships the duke said: 'It's amazing to think that just on the other side of here you've got tin huts with all these kids with nothing, and bringing them together a nice hot meal provided by Lunchbox Fund, and the sea of which they've been terrified of most of their lives. 'Now they can swim, they can surf...'   Meghan returned to the High Commissioner's residence to see Archie, while Harry was taken out on the sea by Cape Town's Maritime Police unit who are combatting the illegal poaching of the abalone snail.  A detachment from the Royal Marines - of which Harry is Captain General - have visited the police unit to help train and catch the smugglers. Abalone, a sea snail found off the coast of South Africa, is now at critically low levels because of over-exploitation and poaching.   A report by TRAFFIC states that, on average, two thousand tonnes of abalone are bagged annually by poachers – 20 times the legal take.  The species is particularly prized in East Asia, where people are willing to pay hundreds of dollars per kilogramme for the delicacy.  A plate of abalone in China can sell for £420, more expensive than the equivalent weight in gold.  According to a 2014 report, investigators found rampant abalone poaching and a growing drug addiction crisis in the South African coastal communities where drugs are frequently exchanged for the illegally harvested snail. Source: Traffic  On arrival at Kalk Bay Harbour Harry was greeted by the UK Defence Adviser, Colonel Alan Lister OBE of the Royal Marines.  Colonel Alan introduced the Duke to two Royal Marine Trainers waiting in the Maritime Police Boat, Captain Robert Smith and Marine Timothy Lombard, who have been providing the Cape Town Maritime Police Unit (MPU) with the training.  The Marines visited last August for a week and have now returned for another week this month.  They had planned to take Harry to Seal Island, which, as the name suggests, is only inhabited by seals. But the sea was too rough so Harry had an exhilarating ride down the coast of Kalk Bay, south of Cape Town.  Captain Rob Smith, 27, from Chippenham in Wiltshire spoke to Harry. Captain Smith, who has spent four years as a Marine, said: 'We talked about what we did last year - we spent a week here in August 2018 to teach craft handling, hand signals to communicate between the boats and developing tactics with the maritime police unit which will help them out on the water to cooronsate missions more effectively. 'A big thing was building their confidence with some mentoring. 'Harry was very engaged and enjoyed chatting to us.  'He wanted to get a better picture of how the poachers operate and how sophisticated their operations are. They could be on operations every single evening and even now during the day so the problem is fairly significant.  'When the abalone snail is exported to China it fetches a price comparable to gold. The maritime unit have 300km of coastline to police with only 30 personnel.   'Harry was really interested in the environmental issues and how dedicated the staff in the maritime unit are to helping this issue. It was an authentic experience for Harry and it was a great pleasure and privilege to meet our Captain General.'   Archie Harrison Mountbatten-Windsor may only be four months old but his proud dad the Duke of Sussex has revealed he was transfixed by one of Cape Town's best known landmarks - Table Mountain. During the first day of his family's tour of South Africa, Harry said his baby son could not take his eyes off the mountain that dominates the backdrop to the city, as their plane landed. Speaking to a well-wisher as Meghan stood nearby, Harry said about his son: 'He was staring out the window as we flew in... looking at Table Mountain'. There is a long history of royals taking their young children with them on overseas trips, which are working visits on behalf of the British Government but still offer opportunities to relax and enjoy the new surroundings. Harry's parents the Prince of Princess of Wales travelled with his older brother the Duke of Cambridge, when he was a nine-month-old Prince William, to Australia and New Zealand in 1983. Prince George was also only nine months when he joined his parents William and Kate for their first joint trip to Australia and New Zealand in 2014. Archie has not been included in Harry and Meghan's official schedule for South Africa, although the couple hopes to publicly introduce him to Africa at some point. He has already been photographed - pictured in the arms of his mother Meghan as the Sussexes left Cape Town International Airport. But the long-haul flight took its toll on the young royal. Discussing his son Harry, was overheard telling another well-wisher: 'He's not grouchy, just exhausted.'   Harry and Meghan also held an impromptu question and answer session with the press close to the beach and were quizzed about what it was like being in Africa. Speaking about Monday when the couple visited Nyanga Township in Cape Town, the duke replied: 'Yesterday was great and to start in Nyanga was amazing.' He went on to comment on the growing issue in South Africa of violence against women: 'I think everyone across the world now has probably heard about what's been happening more recently - that kind of stuff happens all the time, every year, but it really peaked in the last month or so, we've done our best to keep track of what's been going on.' Harry added: 'This Africa tour was always going to be fantastic, been looking forward to Cape Town - her first visit, I love this place. 'And again meeting the people, the energy, the fun, again the positivity, the optimism and the hope in the face of such incredible adversity. There are young people and older people, men and women trying to change what effectively has become the norm.'  The American former actress wore a white shirt, with her Le Specs Bandwagon sunglasses tucked in the front, a cropped £112 denim jacket with sleeves rolled up, and black skinny jeans.  Meghan's hair was up in a bun, but the windy weather meant she had to re-adjust a few loose strands behind her ears as she arrived. Her Madewell denim jacket in Pinter Wash with metallic buttons costs around £112. Her tan shoes were her Brother Vellies Huaraches Flats in Whiskey, which are priced at £156, and are already mostly out of stock. Brother Vellies, which is based in New York, was created by designer Aurora James to represent James's favourite traditional African footwear and create jobs within the continent. Each product is handmade by local artisans in countries including South Africa, Kenya and Morocco using techniques and styles passed down from generation to generation. Meghan carried a £74 Madewell medium Transport Tote bag in khaki-coloured British Surplus, at times wearing the tan leather strap across her body. Harry was in a dark unbuttoned shirt tucked into beige trousers, with matching trainers.  Arriving this morning at several old shipping containers that the Waves for Change charity, which was started from a van nine years ago but now helps 1,200 children from the region, now calls home, the couple were met by founding director Tim Conibear.  'How's it going?' asked Meghan, who was dressed casually in jeans and a denim jacket with a white shirt and brown woven loafers. One of the unnamed mentors - described as the 'heart' of the organisation - talked the couple through how they worked with children, aged 11 to 15, many of whom had no caring adults in their lives.  'It's about consistency, isn't it?' nodded the duchess, while Harry asked: 'Presumably you need to teach some of these kids how to swim before you can get them to surf?'. Meghan chatted intently about some of the meals on offer, saying: 'You need this after a long day.'  Outside they joined 25 surf mentors taking part in a lively 'kilo', a welcoming chant, call and response game. Harry and Meghan joined in enthusiastically, slapping and slapping their thighs. At the end the duchess gave a little jump of excitement and hugged the young girl next to her. Afterwards the charity's partnerships manager, Ash Heese, 27, said of Meghan's contribution : 'She looked a little bit hesitant [when asked to share a strength so one of our coaches shared that her participation and her energy and her dancing was one of her strengths. 'She laughed and said no she didin't think so, but parenting is a new strength that her and Harry are learning and developing. 'She said he's the best dad and he said she's the best mum.' Ash described Harry and Meghan as 'very engaging', adding: 'They were keen to engage with the coaches on their level, no sense of talking down or being patronising towards them. They seemed genuinely interested in our coaches and our coaches are the heart of our programme.' She added: 'It's wonderful to have such positive mental health champions showcasing our work, showcasing the importance of positive youth development. 'They were amazing.' The Waves For Change organisation was founded after a group of surfing enthusiasts discovered how beneficial the sport was in engaging young people and helping their mental health.  Daily exposure to violence and stress in South Africa means that many residents, particularly young people, suffer from acute emotional and psychological difficulties.  But early evidence suggests that those who taking part in surfing session experience improved feelings of belonging, trust and confidence.  After being met by founding director Tim Conibear, who talked to them about their work, the Duke and Duchess visited one of W4C's 'Safe Spaces', where young people can go to talk in confidence.  They also met 25 surf mentors preparing for a mental health activity on the beach as well as joining them in a circle for a welcome. They even joined the surf mentors in a circle for a Kilo - a welcoming chant, call and response game.  Harry and Meghan also got the chance to part in a mental health exercise called the Power Hand, which promotes positive thinking.  The Duke and Duchess joined in in the Power Hand activity and spoke to the surf mentors about its benefits.  The couple also took the chance to chat with Dr Thomas Maes, Director of the Commonwealth Litter Programme (CLiP) and Loyiso Dunga, a marine Biologist from the Sea Change Project, who spoke about the impact of micro plastics in the ocean and provide a demonstration in their micro laboratory.  The discussion will highlight the importance of role models, such as the surf mentors, in spreading the message in their communities on how plastic waste impacts on the ocean.  The Sea Change Project is a community of ocean scientists working to protect the oceans through film, journalism and activism, led by Craig Foster, an award-winning filmmaker, whose work has appeared on Sir David Attenborough's Planet Earth.  Before they left Harry and Meghan spent time in the kitchen with staff from The Lunchbox Fund, which helps vulnerable children in the country get the education they desperately need by providing a daily, nutritious school meal.  Many of the children would often go hungry and the meal encourages them too attend school, as well as concentrate and learn.  The charity provides nearly 30,000 nutritious meals every day to Waves for Change programmes and schools in South Africa's townships and rural areas. Ash Heese, 27, projects manager at Waves For Change explained that the project had been running for nine years, starting from a small van on the beach. It now works with 1,200 children from across Cape Town and the Eastern Cape. She said: 'We had no idea that the couple had even heard of us until they featured us on their Instagram account. We woke up on a Monday morning to find our social media goi f crazy. 'We really hope that this visit will raid awareness of the work we are doing. 'These young people on average experience eight acts that affect their mental health every day, ranging from extreme poverty to violence and intimidation. Most of us experience four in a lifetime. 'Mental health is not something that is well addressed in South Africa. There is a severe shortage of trained staff. 'The mentors here are amazing. They don't have to have formal qualifications but are very special people with empathy and understanding. It is what these children need so very badly. '   In his role as Captain General Royal Marines, Harry will meet two Marines who have been training the Cape Town unit as part of a Ministry of Defence initiative that began last summer.  They will end the day meeting young people and community and civil society leaders at the official residence of the British High Commissioner in Cape Town. 
