{ By Ryan Parry West Coast Editor For Dailymail.com And James Desborough For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:49, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7962625/Kathie-Lee-Gifford-admits-shes-ready-love-death-husband-Frank.html }
TV star Kathie Lee Gifford has told DailyMailTV she's finally ready to find love again, five years after the passing of her husband. In an exclusive interview, Gifford revealed she's already dating a new man in her new home town of Nashville, Tennessee. But while she is enjoying nights out with the mystery man, she's in no rush to find a replacement for late husband Frank Gifford, a sportscaster and former NFL player. 'You don't find love, love finds you,' the 66-year-old said. 'That's what I'm waiting for. I'm not going out looking for it. God will bring it to me.' The former TODAY host remained coy on the identity of her new man, months after she was caught on camera smooching and grinding with a mystery man at an outdoor concert in Nashville last summer. DailyMailTV later revealed the man was insurance agent Randy Cronk, 56, from Spring Hill, Tennessee. But the former TV anchor wouldn't confirm a relationship with Cronk, only that she's currently with a 'sweet guy'. 'I have dated. I would like to find somebody, I'm a people person. I am dating a very sweet guy. I told him how blessed I am,' she said. 'I feel very cozy in there and he asked if you ever get lonely and I said ''every day''.'  Last November Gifford quit her long term home in Greenwich, Connecticut, which she shared with her late husband Frank, and moved to Nashville.  She said feels that Frank's sudden death of natural causes in August 2015 at the age of 84, ended his suffering from CTE and acted as closure for her.  'Frank had been very sick for several years before he passed and when Frank did see Jesus and went straight to heaven, I had such closure,' she explained.  'I had been praying that the Lord would take him that way, on a beautiful day when we were on our way to church - and boy he did go to church. I have such peace because I know who he is with.  'We were watching a football game at my restaurant the other day and something happened and one of my friends, he looked at me and goes, ''That was Frank smiling at you.''  'He's up there with my mother and my father... at my age, you start to have lost quite a few of your loved ones, but it's not the end. The Christian faith is about internal life.'  The mother-of-two admits to still being lonely despite leaving 'chaotic' New York for a new life in 'happy' Nashville, packed with 'churches on every corner', and meeting new people and going on dates. 'The loneliness is a natural progression in life when your parents have passed on, your husband has passed on, your children have moved away and you're alone in the big house that once was teaming with activity and now the silence is deafening.  'And it doesn't matter how much music you put on, you can't escape the fact that you are there by yourself.'  The star says the magic of her 29-year marriage to husband Frank will be tough for any man to match though.  Reflecting on being an open book about her roller coaster life, she added: 'I've spoken about these things very honestly all my life. I want to live an authentic life. Have I lied at times in my life? Yeah, and I do not like it. ' 'The truth is what sets us free. I don't want every one of my pictures to look glossed over. I want to look good but I try to make it okay so that I can forget about myself. It doesn't matter because God loves me.'  Gifford also opened up further on her understanding of faith and Christianity, insisting she celebrates God daily rather than attending Sunday church services.  And she believes that her faith has guided her in life and without it, she may have ended up in rehab, Gifford said.  She explained: 'I don't have a religion; I have never had a religion. I have a relationship in the living God and I've had it my whole life.  'There is a scripture in the Bible that says we live and move and have our being. It doesn't say we go visit, sit on our butts and learn something that we try to apply to our lives for the rest of the week.  'And I'm not putting church down, I am just saying too many people are confusing that with a relationship with God who loves us and intimate and it's exciting and it's an adventure.  'I can't even imagine taking a breath without acknowledging that breath comes from my Lord; He's everything to me - I would be in Betty Ford clinic or be in a straight jacket or be prison because with this mouth, you know the trouble I would have gotten into.'  Gifford bid goodbye to hosting the TODAY show in April last year, after joining the program in 2008.  A month after her retirement, she told People magazine that she was finally ready to begin dating, but asserted: 'I'm not interested in something that isn't magnificent.  'Do I need companionship? Yes, I do, and that's one of the main reasons I moved to Nashville. Not that I'm looking for a man. What I'm looking for is an active, vibrant life.'  
