{ By Tracy Wright For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:56, 20 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7486403/Brad-Pitt-sings-praises-years-long-friendship-Kanye-West-Sunday-Services.html }
They were an unlikely duo. But Brad Pitt is right on board with Kanye West's weekly worship after recently attending Sunday Services in Los Angeles.  The 55-year-old actor told Extra TV that he has known the Stronger hitmaker for 'years' and loves the fact Kanye isn't afraid to 'mess things up.' During the Ad Astra premiere earlier this week, Brad admitted that he's formed a unique bond with the rapper.   '[We kept] just running [into each other] through the years,' he said. 'I love that there's a Kanye out in the world, like, messing things up, you know?' Kim Kardashian's husband began the group worship earlier this year and has brought his weekly brand of praise across the country and even to the annual Coachella Music Festival in Indio, California. 'Envisioning the future and, you know, we can't forget his music,' Brad said. 'He was one of the first to come out and be raw and open -- he should always get credit for that.' The Once Upon A Time In Hollywood star thinks the weekly services are 'really beautiful' and something unique.  'I think what he's doing is pretty special,' he said. 'It's this real celebratory thing of people and it's a really loving vibe and it's beautiful —  it's huge, so beautiful. I find it really special.' Brad was recently spotted among the many celebrities in the crowd for Kanye's worship hour in the city of Watts, standing alongside Kourtney and Khloe Kardashian, and Los Angeles radio legend Big Boy.  Pitt — who raises six children with former wife Angelina Jolie — recently opened up about his own religious journey after being raised a Christian but drifted away in adulthood. 'Oh man, I've gone through everything,' he said. 'Like, I cling to religion. I grew up with Christianity. Always questioned it, but it worked at times. 'And then when I got on my own, I completely left it and I called myself agnostic. Tried a few spiritual things but didn't feel right. 'Then I called myself an atheist for a while, just kind of being rebellious. I wasn't really. But I kinda labelled myself that for a while. It felt punk rock enough. 'I found myself coming back around to just belief in -- I hate to use the word spirituality, but just belief in that we're all connected.'   
