christianity
{ By John Bennett For Mailonline   Published:  22:44, 13 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7462301/Nazi-intelligence-documents-Adolf-Hitlers-plan-invade-conquer-Britain.html }
Nazi intelligence documents which would have been used to support Hitler's Operation Sea Lion, a plan to invade and conquer the UK, are to be put up for auction today. The original documents, which are valued together at around £7,000, contain detailed information on the UK that was so sensitive, copies of the documents were initially seized by British intelligence after their existence became known. Now, almost 80 years later, their pages will be made available to one discerning buyer. According to information made available by the Henry Aldridge auction house, the plans were first gathered by SS General Walter Schellenberg who prepared this book for the Gestapo to be distributed to any arriving occupation forces. It represented an incredible snapshot of how the Nazis saw Great Britain and her Empires.  But most chillingly, it was a literal blueprint for the occupation of Britain after a proposed invasion by Nazi Germany. The texts are marked as 'Geheim!' (secret) and detail almost every aspect of British life in the 1940s with chapters dedicated to British journalists, factions of Christianity and universities around the country. The lists were part of a wider plan to ensure total domination of Great Britain following occupation targeting intellectuals and other individuals that would likely be brave enough to speak up against the totalitarian regime. Also included within the nefarious chapters are details regarding communist sympathisers and many of the 'Jews of Great Britain.' The plans give a clear idea that occupied Britain would have seen similar treatment of its Jewish population as elsewhere in occupied Europe.  Operation Sea Lion was planned for September 1940, when Hitler hoped to land 100,000 troops at five points on the English coast between Ramsgate, Kent, and Selsey Bill, West Sussex.  The first wave of the 'exceptionally bold and daring attack' would also feature 650 tanks and 4,500 horses.   The Nazis would then deploy another 500,000 soldiers to fight inland once the Nazis had a foothold.  Their first operational objective was to occupy a huge swath of south east England - from the mouth of the River Thames down to Southampton - 14 days after the invasion. Brighton was earmarked to be the main landing area for transport ships bringing in more troops, armour and supplies during the occupation. The Germans put the British defences at 320,000 men, with machine gun nests positioned 300 yards from the coastline, artillery guns 1,000 yards inland and another line of artillery and machine gun nests 3,000 yards back. A line of over 600 armoured cars and tanks were said to have been positioned two miles inland and a reserve of 50,000 men a further two miles back. If the Nazis had won the war, one of the dictator's first priorities was the arrest of those who made his Black Book. Compiled by Walter zu Christian, the 'Special Wanted List' included obvious figures such as Winston Churchill and Anthony Eden. But others listed for probable liquidation included Noel Coward, Virginia Woolf and E.M. Forster.  His death squads - Einsatzgruppen - would round up anybody deemed to be a subversive, including Jews and intellectuals.  He also wanted to make Oxford the new capital, reducing London's status to a Nazi base. His plans for London didn't end there - he wanted to rob it of Nelson's Column and transplant it in Berlin.  Other strongholds were planned for Birmingham, Newcastle, Dublin, Liverpool and Glasgow. Hitler's vision for the UK also included transforming Blackpool, Lancashire, into a resort in which his troops could unwind.  The plans explain why a town that built hundreds of Wellington Bombers remained largely untouched in the Blitz. The leader wanted to snatch Blenheim Palace as his own home. His nemesis  Winston Churchill had lived there as a boy. He also wanted to depose George VI in favour of Edward VIII, who had visited him before the war's outbreak.  
