{ By Rebecca Davison for MailOnline   Published:  14:10, 16 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7469181/I-failing-live-interesting-life-Brad-Pitt-55-clings-religion.html }
He's currently starring in Tarantino movie Once Upon A Time In Hollywood alongside Leonardo DiCaprio, as well as space movie, Ad Astra.  And Brad Pitt, 55, has spoken to GQ about wanting to make his life as interesting as the movies he stars in.  He said: 'Leo and I were having this conversation the other day. I hit this point in the late ’90s or early 2000s, where I realized I was chasing these interesting [roles], yet I was failing to live as interesting a life as I thought I could.' Brad admitted that has set up his current mindset and said: 'Live an interesting life and the rest will take care of itself.' The star, who famously split from his wife Angelina Jolie, in 2016, said: 'I’m optimistic about the possibility of connection. 'I’ve gone through everything. Like, I cling to religion. I grew up with Christianity. Always questioned it, but it worked at times. And then when I got on my own, I completely left it and I called myself agnostic.  'Tried a few spiritual things but didn’t feel right. Then I called myself an atheist for a while, just kind of being rebellious. I wasn’t really.  'But I kinda labelled myself that for a while. It felt punk rock enough. And then I found myself coming back around to just belief in—I hate to use the word spirituality, but just a belief in that we’re all connected.'  Brad admits that he’s more attracted to the authentic unknown and said: 'The people I’m really drawn to, they just have no filter. They have no protection.  'They have no filter on their thoughts. They sometimes get in trouble because of that, but I adore them. I adore that they’re just so open and raw about their feelings at any moment.' The iconic actor muses on self awareness, aging, and figuring out what really matters.  'It’s just getting f***ing older!' he said on certain realizations.  'How you become more aware of time, and you’ve had more experience, good and bad, with people. And your own wins and losses—the older you get, they don’t seem like so much of a win or so much of a loss.  'Who you spend your time with, how you spend time—it has just become much more important to me.' The October issue of GQ is on stands September 16.  
