{ By Patrick Marmion for the Daily Mail   Published:  01:52, 13 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7458853/Milk-two-sugars-dash-polonium-comrade-PATRICK-MARMION-reviews-expensive-poison.html }
A Very Expensive Poison  (Old Vic Theatre, London) Verdict: Slick but flippant docu-drama  Amsterdam (Orange Tree, Richmond-upon-Thames) Verdict: Double Dutch  Alexander ‘Sasha’ Litvinenko was the Russian exile who made the mistake of taking afternoon tea with a couple of old associates in Mayfair’s Millennium Hotel on November 1, 2006. Shortly after this he fell violently ill and as he lay dying, he helped police solve his murder. Retracing his steps, he eventually learned that his tea had been laced with radioactive polonium. I wouldn’t have thought any of this would be obvious material for comic treatment, but that’s what it gets in this weirdly facetious new play by Lucy Prebble. It stars Tom Brooke as Litvinenko, with Peter Polycarpou as the colourful oligarch Boris Berezovsky and Reece Shearsmith as President Vladimir Putin — who was believed to have authorised the hit. The play is based on Luke Harding’s book about the killing and he takes lurid, sometimes breathless pleasure in the events. But Prebble’s adaptation turns the story into a wacky vaudeville affair, with Sasha and his wife Marina talking us through the action. Far from being a sexy and mysterious spy, Brooke’s Litvinenko is more of a gawky Nicholas Lyndhurst figure. He takes his role as the victim of a brutal state execution very seriously. And, as an earnest teetotaller, Litvinenko would surely have been unimpressed by Prebble’s frivolous obituary. At least MyAnna Buring adds a good measure of seriousness as his loyal wife who fought for (and eventually won) a public inquiry into the killing. The two assassins, Andrei Lugovoi and Dimitri Kovtun, are mockingly presented as a couple of ‘useful idiots’, with Michael Shaeffer turning Lugovoi into a petulant playboy and Lloyd Hutchinson making Kovtun a half-witted wannabe porn star. Shearsmith might at least have added menace as Putin, but he plays him as an irritable petty bureaucrat — nothing like the cold-blooded opportunist we know to occupy the Kremlin today. And as Berezovsky, Polycarpou is a big-hearted party animal given to bursting into song. Again, no trace of the ruthless power-broker. John Crowley’s production is always slick, with a small, neon-framed café turning into a hospital room and a Moscow flat, before opening out into a vast incident room at Scotland Yard. But comic capering with puppets, kitsch Russian folk songs and half-cooked choreography all set a decidedly odd tone for a real-life murder investigation. I’m not sure I’d want my assassination reported like this, should I ever have the misfortune to cross Mr Putin. Four actors take turns to play the cellist, interrupting one another as they simultaneously investigate and concoct stories about the mysterious bill, which leads them to a Nazi collaborator. There’s nothing at stake: no characters, no action, no scenes and, robbed of all agency by the author, our cellist doesn’t even have a name. Colourless dialogue is given artificial life by director Matthew Xia and his smiley cast are like teenagers co-presenting a school history project. High points include using a typewriter to create the sound of heels on cobbles and an impressive iron curtain deployed to divide the stage (for no apparent reason). The show is at least innovative — but only in the way the rack was innovative in medieval England. And Arad Yasur certainly proves quite the expert at stretching out her very meagre material. It’s no surprise that she’s big in Germany, where they like their drama painful. This is Xia’s first venture as director of Actors Touring Company. Be warned. Torch Song (Turbine Theatre, Battersea) Verdict: Rough but ready London needs another theatre like Imelda Marcos needs another pair of shoes. Even so, a new one has arrived next door to Battersea Power Station. And a tidy little venue it is too — tucked into the arches under the railway lines alongside the leviathan landmark. Planners are nowadays obliged to provide cultural ‘outreach’ and if the surrounding concrete and glass apartment blocks ever fill up, they’ll have a strong local audience, too. Residents should, however, be warned that their eyeballs may pop at some of the shenanigans in this opening play at the tunnel-like 200-seater auditorium, which feels like a brick railway carriage. The work is a reduced (two and a half hour) version of Harvey Fierstein’s 1982 trilogy about a lovelorn drag queen in Seventies Manhattan, which was turned into a film starring Fierstein himself and Matthew Broderick. One scene may even require the Heimlich manoeuvre for sensitive souls and ingénues. More nuanced matter does, mercifully, follow to occupy the mind. Fierstein wrote zippy and witty dialogue — like a gay version of Woody Allen. We follow his flamboyant drag queen, Arnold, as he goes from treating himself like a piece of meat to falling in love with a gay man who wants to stay in the closet, through to a hilarious showdown with his disapproving Jewish mother. With the physique of a length of rope and a mop of hair like the head of Medusa, Matthew Needham’s Arnold manages to be both sour and seedy, as well as sardonic and sympathetic. He knits himself into knots of anxiety, only to unravel himself and lash fellow actors with his wicked tongue. But the best bit is when he comes up against his real nemesis in the shape of Bernice Stegers, with a show-stealing turn as his firecracker suburban mother. This is a neat and impressively staged production by Drew McOnie in a space that’s almost as tight as the men’s trousers. And it’s a very promising start for Artistic Director Paul Taylor-Mills, who now just has to maintain high production standards. A Doll’s House (Lyric, Hammersmith) Verdict: Ibsen all mixed up with colonialism  Ibsen's play, A Doll’s House, was shocking at its launch in 1879 Copenhagen and is still shocking. It doesn’t threaten the social order any more but it demonstrates brutally how quickly a marriage can collapse, and the fragility of our closest relationships. That’s scary. Does that emotional charge have more force when you add colonialism to the mix? In this production, directed by Rachel O’Riordan, the play happens in Calcutta, still in 1879. As Tanika Gupta, who wrote the new adaptation, says: ‘It opens the door to exploring additional power dynamics — what happens to the women of India married to Englishmen?’ The Indian context emphasises the extent to which the marriage of Helmer and Niru (formerly Nora) is skewed in his favour. Elliot Cowan, as Helmer, towers over tiny Anjana Vasan, making all his endearments about ‘my Indian sparrow’ seem apposite rather than yuck. He adores his young Indian bride, his plaything who has, unknown to him, committed forgery with excellent intentions. She almost flutters round the stage, coquettish, with huge eyes. But to an embittered blackmailer, her former creditor Kaushik Das, played by Assad Zaman, she is a traitor to her nation and religion. Identifying her conversion to Christianity as a betrayal adds a new dimension to the play, which has enough emotional baggage already. Niru is not just her husband’s plaything — she has sold out to the occupier, too. Actually, the lyrical Indian diction and rapid speech of the Indian actresses is the big problem here. The lady next to me said: ‘I’ve a hearing aid and I can hear the men but not the women.’ Better projection, better articulation, please! MELANIE McDONAGH  Emotionless songs hit a false note Falsettos (The Other Palace, London) Verdict: American musical from hell  AT the start of this show, the cast bundle on stage screaming: ‘Four Jews In A Room Bitching’. It’s the first of many ‘songs’ in this musical, which was a tremendous success Stateside and has now swum to our shores. It’s being tried out at Andrew Lloyd Webber’s The Other Palace, a decent enough venue with a mission to indulge in fresh musical theatre. Hopefully its British holiday ends here, and the deportation papers are in the post. It is the worst musical I have ever seen — and bear in mind I saw an improvised James Bond musical at the Edinburgh Fringe. William Finn and James Lapine are the creators behind this family drama. Mum has decided to shack up with Dad’s psychiatrist. In the centre is a bland child who loves chess (the game, he’s not a Barbara Dickson fan — although I wouldn’t put it past him). The set is one of the limpest displays on the London stage. It’s a mess of picture frames and badly executed scenic projection, which is awfully distracting. The score is scandalously sub-Sondheim stuff; thick glops of dense, chewy lyrics beaten round the face by unfathomably dull, mushy melodies. I know some people enjoy that semi-automatic staccato style, but it sucked out all the emotional heft. It’s also entirely sung through, so there’s not even a moment’s break to retune your ears and check for tinnitus. Not only could I not hum a single tune as I shuffled glumly out of the joint, I couldn’t catch them while they were being sung at me. It was entirely tuneless and wholly glib, with the emotional depth of an emoji. There’s a slither of merit — a smutty quality which I quite liked. And Laura Pitt-Pulford and Oliver Savile (ex-wife and the new boyfriend [SUB’S NOTE: Dad’s new boyfriend — shouldn’t we mention this?]) have cracking big-band voices. A song where Pitt-Pulford furiously sets the table, knocking back wine and plastering on a ferociously forced smile, is manic fun. The rest, alas, is just manic. LUKE JONES Hedda Tesman (Minerva, Chichester) Verdict: Call the clean-up woman! In Ibsen's play Hedda Gabler it's 1891 Norway, and Hedda is an intelligent, neurotic young woman bored by her husband Tesman, fascinated by the drunken brilliant Lovborg, and frustrated by being a wife. She burns Lovborg's genius manuscript and lends him her late father's gun to kill himself. Her goth-romantic notion is that it's 'beautiful, brave, brilliant' to take control of your fate. Since her fate is helplessness under the dread patriarchy, she shoots herself, too.. Mysterious, dislikeable and fascinating, Hedda is every actress' dream. In Cordelia Lynn's new sequel, set today, she hasn't changed - and the role is finely filled with dangerous, banked-down fury by Haydn Gwynne, a human volcano fit to blow. From her first appearance the energy in the room rises, and Tesman and jolly Aunt Julie scuttle to please her. Which is, of course, impossible. Only her equally angry daughter Thea, boiling with millennial righteousness and obsessed with the alcoholic genius writer (now renamed Elijah) is powerful enough to confront her. For we are asked to imagine that Ibsen's Hedda lived on 30 years, bore a daughter, hated motherhood and remained bored with her husband. But the setting is 2019, so it becomes a play about the frustrations of modern middle-aged wives. And wobbles around its target. It wastes fine acting: a stormingly good performance by Gwynne, fierce Natalie Simpson as the daughter, Anthony Calf sweet as poor Tesman, Jonathan Hyde nicely satanic as Judge Brack, and Irfan Shamji working hard to make sense of drunk Elijah and his awful sociology treatise. But terrific acting can't always disguise the essential pointlessness of a play. It just doesn't feel relevant to here and now - or to 1891 either. Its one shining merit is that the author has expanded the tiny role of the maid Bertha into a young working-class mum, who's an agency cleaner. Every time Rebecca Oldfield comes on with a mop, a bright shaft of reality dispels the self absorbed gloom. She isn't thwarted, because she blooming well works - has to - and looks after her children. And if Hedda shoots herself this time, you know who'll have to clean up the mess. If you want a feminist moral, that's it! LIBBY PURVES  
