{ By Emily Crane For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:59, 11 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7453607/Jesus-Christ-Superstar-star-Jeff-Fenholt-dies-aged-68.html }
Broadway star Jeff Fenholt has died aged 68 after battling a number of undisclosed health issues.  Fenholt, who was best known for his lead role in the original Broadway production of Jesus Christ Superstar, died on Tuesday. He was found dead in his Newport Beach, California home, TMZ reports.  His death came just five days before his 69th birthday.  Fenholt was said to be battling several health problems of late but it is not yet clear what they were.  His son Tristan Fenholt, who is a pastor at The Rock, Anaheim, paid tribute to his father in a Facebook post on Wednesday.  'Yesterday, my dad - Jeff Fenholt - went home to be with the Lord. Like all of us, he was not a perfect man, but he knew the perfect Savior (Jesus), and loved to share the gospel with as many people as possible,' he wrote. 'His music and ministry literally touched the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. He truly loved the Lord... and still does. I love you and miss you, Dad!'  The singer played Jesus when Andrew Lloyd Webber's Jesus Christ Superstar first opened on Broadway in New York City in October 1971.  After 711 shows, Jesus Chris Superstar closed on Broadway two years later.  Fenholt had been open in the past about how he was heavily addicted to drugs and alcohol after his run in Jesus Christ Superstar came to an end. He said he converted to Christianity to beat his addiction. In his autobiography, he detailed how he was introduced to religion after being approached by Christian construction workers about his portrayal in the Broadway production.  He once claimed that he had briefly been the singer for British heavy metal band Black Sabbath around 1985.  Fenholt had claimed the band used some of his melodies for their Seventh Star album but said he wasn't credited.   The band have only ever said that Fenholt auditioned for a spot in the group.   Following his introduction to religion, Fenholt eventually went on to become a Christian evangelist. He became a high-profile personality on the Trinity Broadcasting Network.  
