christianity
{ By Lauren Edmonds For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:41, 10 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7448925/Shocking-moment-woman-26-slips-waterfall-Hawaii-plunges-50-FEET-water.html }
GoPro footage has emerged of the moment a professional American beach volleyball player plunged 50ft after slipping off a waterfall in Hawaii, breaking multiples bones. A week before her senior beach volleyball season at University of Hawaii, Heather Friesen of Indiana was hiking with friends at the Ka'au Crater Trail in Honolulu in 2016.  In footage captured by her GoPro, the now 26-year-old can be seen staring in awe at a waterfall. Seconds later, she tumbles over the edge.  'The hike has waterfalls and we were on the first waterfall. I was up at the top trying to look over the edge and I got too close and I ended up slipping,' she told In the World of Female Sports.  Friesen fell 50 feet, colliding with rocks and hard edges along the way.  She said: 'It's not a place you're supposed to jump off of because the water was mid-thigh height, about three feet deep. So you're not supposed to jump into that because you will die if you land the wrong way. ' For a split moment, Friesen thought she could grab onto a nearby ridge to save herself from plummeting.  'I can still picture it in my head. There was this little ridge off to the left and I tried to grab on. In my head I was like 'it's going to be fine'.' Unfortunately, the ridge was too slippery and she kept falling.   'The things I was thinking about when I was falling, it's the whole cliché that time slows down,' Friesen said.  While falling she thought about her family and husband worrying about her.  'I started thinking about how upset everyone was going to be at me. My family was so far away and they would be so worried about me,' she said. 'My boyfriend at the time, who is now my husband played baseball for UH, was on a roadtrip in California at the time so I was thinking of how he was going to be worried.'  She also thought about protecting her body. ‘I was sure I was about to get injured so that was going mess up stuff for volleyball.’  Friesen told herself: 'Okay Heather, you need to land on your left side so you don't mess up your hitting shoulder.'  The volleyball player landed on her side in 3 feet deep water and while submerged. Friesen's groans can be heard in the footage. ‘I ended up hitting a rock that was around the edge of the waterfall at the bottom.’   Friends helped Friesen gain her footing, but she was unable to walk and would need to be airlifted to a medical facility.  ‘The worst part was that it was difficult to breathe because my lung had collapsed and I didn’t know why I couldn’t breathe so that’s the part I was freaking out about the most.’  Friesen said: 'I kept repeating to myself "God's got me I'm going to be okay" and that "I'm going to play volleyball again."' While waiting for emergency crews to arrive, a group of Friesen's friends from church were coincidentally hiking in the same area that day and came across her after the accident. They instantly began to pray for her.  Despite the rough fall and traumatic ordeal, she knew she was going to be okay.  'I found out there had been others before me who fell from the same spot and died, and I know that God saved my life that day.'  The helicopter arrived 40 minutes later and transported her to a local hospital. 'When I was on the helicopter being airlifted out, it was the most peaceful moment of my life,' she said.  Friesen suffered 10 broken ribs, a collapsed lung, a fractured scapula and several deep wounds.  Friesen survived her injuries and continues to play volleyball with her Christianity in mind.   
