{ By Associated Press   Published:  06:31, 6 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-7434241/Robert-Mugabe-longtime-Zimbabwe-leader-dies-95.html }
HARARE, Zimbabwe (AP) - In a story Sept. 6 about the death of former Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, The Associated Press reported erroneously that Mugabe was "the first post-colonial leader of what had been British-controlled Rhodesia." In fact, a white minority government in what was then known as Rhodesia declared independence from British colonial rule in 1965. It relinquished power after all-race elections in 1980 that were won by Mugabe. This also clarifies the contributors' line to say that Torchia reported while he was in South Africa. A corrected version of the story is below: Mugabe dies; liberated Zimbabwe, then held it for 37 years Robert Mugabe, the longtime leader of Zimbabwe who was forced to resign in 2017 after a military takeover, has died at 95, his successor says By FARAI MUTSAKA and CHRISTOPHER TORCHIA Associated Press HARARE, Zimbabwe (AP) - Former Zimbabwean leader Robert Mugabe, an ex-guerrilla chief who took power when the African country shook off white minority rule and presided for decades while economic turmoil and human rights violations eroded its early promise, has died in Singapore. He was 95. Mugabe enjoyed strong support from Zimbabwe's people soon after he became their first black leader, replacing a white-led government that had declared independence from British colonial rule in 1965. Often violent farm seizures from whites who owned huge tracts of land made him a hated figure in the West and a hero in Africa. His successor, President Emmerson Mnangagwa, tweeted word Friday that an "icon of liberation" had died. Mnangagwa, a long-time loyalist until Mugabe dismissed him from his Cabinet, named Mugabe as a national hero, Zimbabwe's highest posthumous honor. He said the nation would observe an official mourning period for its late leader, "a great teacher and mentor" and a "remarkable statesman of our century." No date or other details were given. Singapore's Foreign Ministry said it was working with Zimbabwe on arrangements to fly Mugabe's body home. In recent years, Mugabe sought medical treatment at Gleneagles Hospital in Singapore. Presidential spokesman George Charamba told The Associated Press that Mugabe was readmitted to the hospital complaining of chest pains. His personal doctor, Dr. Jonathan Matenga, was flown to Singapore and with Mugabe when he died at 4:45 a.m. Friday, Charamba said. Mugabe's popularity began to rise again after Mnangagwa failed to deliver on promises of economic recovery and appeared to take an even harsher and more repressive stance against critics. Many began to publicly say they missed Mugabe. Forced to resign amid pressure from the military, his party and the public in November 2017, Mugabe was defiant throughout his long life, railing against the West for what he called its neo-colonialist attitude and urging Africans to take control of their resources - a populist message that was often a hit, even as many nations on the continent shed the strongman model and moved toward democracy. A target of international sanctions over the years, Mugabe nevertheless enjoyed acceptance among peers in Africa who chose not to judge him in the same way as Britain, the United States and other Western detractors. "They are the ones who say they gave Christianity to Africa," Mugabe said of the West during a visit to South Africa in 2016. "We say: 'We came, we saw and we were conquered.'" Even as old age took its toll and opposition to his rule increased, he refused to step down until the pressure became unbearable in 2017 as his former allies in the ruling party accused him of grooming his wife, Grace, to take over - ahead of long-serving loyalists such as Mnangagwa, who was fired in November 2017 before returning to take over with the help of the military. Spry in his impeccably tailored suits, Mugabe maintained a schedule of events and international travel during his rule that defied his advancing age, though signs of weariness mounted. He walked with a limp, fell after stepping off a plane in Zimbabwe, read the wrong speech at the opening of parliament, and appeared to be dozing during a news conference in Japan. However, his longevity and frequently dashed rumors of ill health delighted supporters and infuriated opponents who had sardonically predicted he would live forever. "Do you want me to punch you to the floor to realize I am still there?" Mugabe told an interviewer from state television who asked him in early 2016 about retirement plans. After the fighting between black guerrillas and the white rulers of Rhodesia, as Zimbabwe was then known, ended, Mugabe reached out to whites. The self-declared Marxist stressed the need for education and built new schools. Tourism and mining flourished, and Zimbabwe was a regional breadbasket. However, a brutal military campaign waged against an uprising in western Matabeleland province that ended in 1987 augured a bitter turn in Zimbabwe's fortunes. As the years went by, Mugabe was widely accused of hanging onto power through violence and vote fraud, notably in a 2008 election that led to a troubled coalition government after regional mediators intervened. "I have many degrees in violence," Mugabe once boasted on a campaign trail, raising his fist. "You see this fist, it can smash your face." Mugabe was re-elected in 2013 in another ballot marred by alleged irregularities, though he dismissed his critics as sore losers. Amid the political turmoil, the economy of Zimbabwe, traditionally rich in agriculture and minerals, deteriorated. Factories were closing, unemployment was rising and the country abandoned its currency for the U.S. dollar in 2009 because of hyperinflation. The economic problems are often traced to the violent seizures of thousands of white-owned farms that began around 2000. Land reform was supposed to take much of the country's most fertile land - owned by about 4,500 white descendants of mainly British and South African colonial-era settlers - and redistribute it to poor blacks. Instead, Mugabe gave prime farms to ruling party leaders, party loyalists, security chiefs, relatives and cronies. Zimbabwe's main opposition leader, Nelson Chamisa, said he was "mourning with the rest of Africa" over the death of Mugabe in the African tradition of Ubuntu, or humanity toward others, calling him one of Zimbabwe's founding fathers and a freedom fighter. However, Chamisa, who leads the Movement for Democratic Change, also acknowledged the pain over "decades of political disputes" surrounding his governance. "Memories really go to the deficits of governance, goes to the issue of human rights situation in the country, goes to the collapse of systems," he said. He also said Mugabe's death on foreign soil is a "sad indictment" of the country's economic situation. On the streets of Harare, the capital, people gathered in small groups Friday and discussed Mugabe. "I will not shed a tear, not for that cruel man," said Tariro Makena, a street vendor. "All these problems, he started them and people now want us to pretend it never happened." Others said they missed him. "Things are worse now. Life was not that good but it was never this bad. These people who removed him from power have no clue whatsoever," said Silas Marongo, holding an axe and joining men and women cutting a tree for firewood in suburban Harare. They needed the wood to beat severe electricity shortages that underline the worsening economic situation. Amnesty International said Mugabe left behind "an indelible stain on his country's human rights record." Mugabe's early years as a leader saw "notable achievements" through his heavy investment in health care and education, the human rights group said, but he later eroded his own track record. "While casting himself as the saviour of Zimbabwe, Robert Mugabe inflicted lasting damage upon its people and its reputation," Muleya Mwananyanda, Amnesty International's Deputy Regional Director for Southern Africa, said. Mugabe was born on Feb. 21, 1924, in Zvimba, 60 kilometers (40 miles) west of the capital of Harare. As a child, he tended his grandfather's cattle and goats, fished for bream in muddy water holes, played football and "boxed a lot," as he recalled later. Mugabe lacked the easy charisma of Nelson Mandela, the anti-apartheid leader and contemporary who became South Africa's first black president in 1994 after reconciling with its former white rulers. But he drew admirers in some quarters for taking a hard line with the West, and he could be disarming despite his sometimes harsh demeanor. "The gift of politicians is never to stop speaking until the people say, 'Ah, we are tired,'" he said at a 2015 news conference. "You are now tired. I say thank you." ___ Torchia reported from Johannesburg as southern Africa bureau chief between 2013 and early 2019. AP writer Carley Petesch in Dakar, Senegal contributed to this report. 
