{ By Ian Randall For Mailonline   Published:  19:00, 6 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7435803/The-beautiful-best-preserved-Dead-Sea-Scroll-treated-mysterious-salts.html }
Microscopic analysis of the most beautiful and best preserved of the Dead Sea Scrolls has revealed that the parchment was treated with mysterious salts. Researchers found that the Temple Scroll was prepared with a mixture of salts that did not match those found in the nearby Dead Sea.  These salts appear to have given the scroll its white colour and helped protect it from the ravages of time.  The Temple Scroll, which is written as a revelation to Moses from God, describe a never-built Jewish temple and religious practices to occur therein. With the first found in 1947 by Bedouin shepherds, the Hebrew scrolls — which number around 900 — are among the best preserved of all ancient documents. Scroll down for video  Of all the Dead Sea Scrolls, the Temple Scroll is one of the largest — spanning almost 25 feet (7.6 m) in length — and best-preserved, with the clearest, whitest surface.  This is despite it being made of the thinnest material of all the texts, at only 0.1 millimetres (around 1/250th of an inch) thick. To investigate how the Temple Scroll's remarkable parchment was made, material scientist Admir Masic of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and colleagues set about mapping the chemical composition of one small part of the scroll. This isolated fragment — which measured around an inch (2.5 cm) across — was studied in high resolution using both X-ray and Raman spectroscopies. 'The Temple Scroll is probably the most beautiful and best preserved scroll. We had the privilege of studying fragments from the Israeli museum in Jerusalem called the Shrine of the Book,' said Professor Masic.  'We were able to perform large-area, submicron-scale, non-invasive characterisation of the fragment,' he said, explaining that the technique allowed the parchment to be analysed without subjecting it to harsh conditions that might damage it. 'We collect[ed] hundreds of thousands of different elemental and chemical spectra across the surface of the sample, mapping out its compositional variability in extreme detail,' said paper co-author James Weaver of Harvard University. Because the fragment of the Temple scroll had not been treated in any way since its discovery, which could have altered its properties, the researchers were able to take a deep look into its original composition, Professor Masic said. This revealed, he added, 'the presence of some elements at completely unexpectedly high concentrations.' Researchers found that an unusual process was used to make the parchment — one that used a unique mixture of salts taken from so-called evaporite deposits, which are left behind when brines evaporate. This composition of these salts on the fragment's surface — which included varying proportions of calcium, sodium and sulphur — was different to that typically found on other parchments, they noted. Salts were sometimes rubbed into the surface of parchments to finish their preparation — in the case of the Temple Scroll, helping to give it its unusually bright white writing surface and, Professor Masic suggests, its robust state of preservation. The base material of the parchment itself would have been made from animals skins that were treated to remove their hair and fatty residues before being scraped clean and stretched tight over a frame to dry. Although the team have not yet been able to determine exactly where the unusual combination of salts used on the Temple Scroll came from, it is clear that it does not match those found in the waters of the Dead Sea itself, Professor Masic said. Like the majority of the other Dead Sea Scrolls, the Temple Scroll was placed in a jar and concealed in one of 11 caves in the hillside north of the Dead Sea, near to the ancient settlement of Qumran which was destroyed by the Romans in 73 AD. The scrolls were hidden by the Essenes — an ancient Jewish sect — to protect their cultural and religious heritage from the invading forces. Many of the scrolls were found buried under feet of debris and bat guano, presumably intended to afford them better secrecy from looters.  Learning how the scrolls were produced over 2,000 years ago may help archaeologists better understand the culture and society of the time, which played a central role in the history of both Judaism and Christianity. 'This work exemplifies exactly what my lab is trying to do — to use modern analytical tools to uncover secrets of the ancient world,' said Professor Masic. 'This study has far-reaching implications beyond the Dead Sea Scrolls,' said paper co-author and material scientist Ira Rabin, of Hamburg University in Germany. 'For example, it shows that at the dawn of parchment making in the Middle East, several techniques were in use, which is in stark contrast to the single technique used in the Middle Ages.' 'The study also shows how to identify the initial treatments, thus providing historians and conservators with a new set of analytical tools for classification of the Dead Sea Scrolls and other ancient parchments.' Alongside this, understanding the chemistry involved in the parchment production process may also help experts to weed out forgeries of allegedly ancient documents. The researcher's findings could also help to develop new approaches to preserve the dead sea scrolls and other such ancient manuscripts for posterity.  According to Professor Masic, the majority of the damage seen in the scrolls today is a result not of their 2,000-year-long storage in the Qumran caves. Instead, they were been negatively affected by efforts to soften the scrolls — in order that they could be unrolled and read — after they were initially discovered. Nevertheless, the researchers also found that the unique mineral coatings on the tests readily take in moisture from the air, which has the potential to further damage the underlying material in the parchment.  This, the team said, highlights the need to careful manage the environment in which the scrolls are kept.   'There could be an unanticipated sensitivity to even small-scale changes in humidity,' said Professor Masic. 'The point is that we now have evidence for the presence of salts that might accelerate their degradation.' 'These are aspects of preservation that must be taken into account.' The full findings of the study were published in the journal Science Advances.  Discovered between 1946 and 1956, the Dead Sea Scrolls are a collection of 972 ancient manuscripts dating back to 2,000 years ago. The texts include tends of thousands of parchment and papyrus fragments and in rare cases entire manuscripts.   They contain parts of what is now known as the Hebrew Bible as well as a range of extra-biblical documents. The scrolls were found by shepherd Muhammed Edh-Dhib as he searched for a stray among the limestone cliffs at Khirbet Qumran on the shores of the Dead Sea in what was then British Mandate Palestine - now the West Bank. The story goes that in a cave in the dark crevice of a steep rocky hillside, Muhammed hurled a stone into the dark interior and was startled to hear the sound of breaking pots. Venturing inside, the young Bedouin found a mysterious collection of large clay jars in which he found old scrolls, some wrapped in linen and blackened with age. The texts have since been excavated by archaeologists, who are now racing to digitise their contents before they deteriorate beyond legibility. The texts are of great historical and religious significance and include the earliest known surviving copies of biblical and extra-biblical documents, as well as preserving evidence of diversity in late Second Temple Judaism. Dated to between 408BC and 318AD, they are written in Hebrew, Aramaic, Greek, and Nabataean, mostly on parchment, but with some written on papyrus and bronze. The scrolls are traditionally divided into three groups. 'Biblical' manuscripts, which are copies of texts from the Hebrew Bible comprise 40 per cent of the haul.   
