christianity
{ By Eleanor Sharples Tv & Radio Reporter For The Daily Mail   Published:  22:01, 5 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7432971/BBC-landed-1-200-complaints-Songs-Praise-broadcast-gay-wedding.html }
Songs of Praise has received 1,238 complaints for broadcasting a gay wedding on the show for the first time. Viewers complained to the BBC that its decision to feature a same sex marriage was offensive to Christians. The episode about Faith and Marriage, which was screened on BBC1 on August 18, showed the wedding ceremony of Jamie Wallace, 27, and Ian McDowall, 39, at the Rutherglen United Reformed Church, near Glasgow. The pair are the first gay couple to marry at the church after the local congregation gave its backing. The United Reformed Church is one of the few Christian denominations to allow same-sex marriage.  Such services are currently banned by the Church of England and the Church in Wales. A Songs of Praise spokesman said last night that the programme had also been sent many letters by wellwishers. ‘As well as the complaints, we received almost 400 letters of congratulations, applauding the fact that Songs of Praise is reflecting modern Christianity,’ he said. Stonewall, the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender charity, has defended the BBC’s decision to feature the wedding on the programme. ‘LGBT people exist in every community, in every workplace, in every region, from every ethnic background, and in every religion,’ a spokesman said. ‘Faith is often used to justify anti-LGBT views and attitudes. This is wrong and perpetuates a myth that faith and LGBT inclusion cannot coexist. ‘Faith is an important part of many LGBT people’s lives and it was powerful to see this represented on Songs of Praise. ‘While we know there are different opinions in faith communities, we work with lots of LGBT people of faith and faith leaders who are passionate about LGBT equality.’ Speaking on the programme, Mr Wallace said: ‘Jesus preaches about love, inclusion, kindness, compassion. A good lady who comes to this church told us in one of our discussions, people will change, and don’t underestimate older people, either. They just need to think about it, and they’ll get there one day. ‘As a committed Christian, being able to marry the man I love with all my heart and soul, before God, in the church I love, with my family, friends and the congregation around us, is something I’ve dreamed of. ‘Now it’s happened, I’m proud my church is welcoming and open to same-sex couples.’  Mr Wallace, a sociology lecturer at Glasgow Clyde College, praised the church for being ‘in tune with modern Scotland’. Since 2016 individual United Reformed Church congregations have been able to vote on whether or not their church should hold same-sex weddings. Songs of Praise, which has been running since 1961, was traditionally ‘a sort of hymn sandwich’, according to Pam Rhodes, one of the presenters.  But the programme, which is shown on Sundays, now favours a magazine format instead of just filming a single service.  Executive producer Cat Lewis said: ‘We understand this is a sensitive subject, but the United Reformed Church is the sixth biggest in the country and as Britain’s only Christian TV series, it is very important we reflect all aspects of the faith.’ A BBC spokesman said: ‘Songs of Praise tells the stories of Christians across all denominations in the UK and in so doing, aims to reflect the balance of opinions on different issues. ‘We featured the wedding of James and Ian to find out what it meant to them as Christians, to be able to take their vows in church.’ 
