{ By Daniel Piotrowski for Daily Mail Australia    Published:  17:19, 2 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7417923/Biloela-Tamils-Sri-Lankans-Priya-Nades-fate-Peter-Dutton.html }
The Queensland country town of Biloela is not accustomed to being in the national spotlight. But it has firmly occupied that place this week because of a Sri Lankan family that took its heart.  The Tamil migrant family made the town of 6,000 home, and endeared themselves to many locals as the mother cooked curries for the local hospital and the father laboured at Woolworths and the local meatworks.  But despite being beloved by residents of Biloela, about 120 kilometres inland of Gladstone, the Australian government said the husband and wife Nades and Priya and their two daughters, aged four and two, had to leave. The government has ruled the family were not genuine refugees - a position upheld in a series of court hearings.  They were to be flown back to Sri Lanka last week but a court injunction meant they were instead put in the $185 million Christmas Island detention centre while the argument over their status continued, and as neighbours back home campaigned for the government to let the family stay. Locals have amassed more than 240,000 signatures on a petition - 40 times the population of their small town - and have won the backing of influential broadcaster Alan Jones and Nationals MP Barnaby Joyce. 'There is an overwhelming anger at the way this family has been treated and the anger is perfectly legitimate,' Jones wrote in an column in The Daily Telegraph. 'Who is being represented by this pigheaded, hypocritical, inconsistent and heartless treatment of this family? In an ostensibly Christian society, it might be time for a bit of practical Christianity.'  Supporters say the couple have made a positive impact on their town and were seeking asylum, as is their right. But Home Affairs minister Peter Dutton is adamant the family will be deported, saying they are not genuine refugees, and only arrived in Australia because they paid people smugglers. It was a position backed by Prime Minister Scott Morrison, who said making an exception for this family would trigger a wave of boats carrying people aspiring to similar compassion - and with it the risk of deaths at sea. 'I know what happens when people think it's okay to make an exception here or there,' Mr Morrison said. 'I remember what happened. I remember the deaths. I remember those terrible images and I will never allow that to happen again.' Scroll down for video  Biloela's campaign to rescue the family has been spearheaded by Angela Fredericks, a local social worker, and her friends. Ms Fredericks was shocked into action after the family were raided by authorities in 2018, after Priya's visa expired, and given 'ten minutes to leave'.  She started a petition - but never imagined it would balloon into a campaign featuring protests across the country.  'I laugh when I see people calling us 'activists' in reports,' Ms Fredericks said. 'I've never done anything on this level.  'Ww were all so shocked by what, by how they were taken - that just really shook us to the core'.  Their effort has tough odds. The family's lawyer has conceded it is almost out of legal options. Their only hope may be a change of heart by Mr Dutton - who once accused the couple of attempting to 'use their children as leverage'.  So who is this family that has brought a town together?  Priya and Nades arrived in Australia by boat, separately, in 2012 and 2013, each seeking asylum. The pair eventually met, fell in love and moved to Biloela, about 120kms south-west of Gladstone.  They married in a traditional Tamil ceremony in 2014, signing their paperwork at the local courthouse.  The family rented a modest weatherboard home on Rainbow Street, in the centre of town, and welcomed their first daughter, Kopika, two years later. Nades learned English at the local TAFE and volunteered at the St Vincent De Paul charity. He worked as a trolley boy at Woolworths, and later at the meatworks.  Priya stayed at home. She gave birth to a second daughter, Tharunicaa, improved her English and cooked curries for the local hospital.  Social worker Ms Fredericks met Priya just before Kopika was born and became one of her closest supporters.  Priya would bring the kids to playgroup at the local church, where Tharunicaa liked to sing Twinkle Twinkle, Little Star.  Ms Fredericks said the family were a beloved part of the bush community, with Priya famous for the hugs she gave friends. 'If you bumped into them, it was 'how's your husband? How's your parents? They wanted to know.  'It was just that caring nature. That's something I think we're losing a bit of nowadays. That's what they did - they connected with us'.  The asylum seekers have said they fear the wrath of Sri Lankan government if they have to go back.  Both of their families had been associated with the Tamil Tigers militant group. Priya has claimed her mother was murdered by the Sri Lankan Army.   She fled with her family to Chennai, India, where she lived from 2001 until 2013, when she hopped on a boat to Australia via the Cocos Islands. Meanwhile, Nades has said he was forced into the Tamil rebel group in 2002 and was then repeatedly harassed by authorities afterwards. He spent much of the following years overseas and finally fled Sri Lanka in 2011 after he found himself increasingly 'harassed' by the government.  The couple were on four year temporary bridging visas while they built their life together in Biloela.   In 2016, Priya applied for a special Safe Haven Enterprise visa. If it was granted, the visa could have secured the couple a future life in Australia.  The visa lets people claim a right to stay, even if they arrived illegally, if they need protection and intend to work and study in the regions.   But her application was rejected by the Department of Immigration and Border Protection.  Appeals to the Immigration Assessment Authority, the federal and high courts likewise failed. For Nades, it was a similar story.  The IAA accepted Priya and her family had faced discrimination and harm in Sri Lanka.  But the agency doubted Sri Lankan authorities would be concerned about Nades's link to the Tamil Tigers. The IAA argued Nades had been allowed to enter Sri Lanka in 2004, 2008 and 2010 while returning home from overseas, and the current government would not worry.  In March 2018, a day after Priya's bridging visa expired, the family's home was raided by police, Border Force and Serco officials.  Supporters claim officers arrived at 5am and gave them just 10 minutes to pack. They were told they would be flown to Melbourne immediately. During the family's time in detention, the youngest, Tharuinicaa's teeth rotted due to vitamin and medical deficiencies.  Four of her baby teeth had to be removed under general anesthetic.  After their failed legal bids, family were expected to be deported last Thursday night. But the clan won an emergency injunction at the Federal Circuit Court shortly after boarding the plane that would have begun their journey back to Sri Lanka. The plane landed in Darwin and they family have since been taken to the government's remote Christmas Island centre.  They are the only detainees at the centre, activists say.  Supporters have flooded the airwaves calling for the government to let the family stay.   Only the immigration minister has the power to allow the family to stay in Australia regardless of the court and agency decisions.  But both the Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton and Prime Minister Scott Morrison said that would risk the country being flooded with arrivals.   Mr Dutton has been scathing about the family, issuing a statement last December arguing both Nades and Priya had arrived on people smugglers' boats.   'They met and married and had two children in Australia and did so in the full no knowledge they had no right to remain in Australia,' he said.  'They have attempted to use their children as leverage and it is sad to see their children used in this way.'  Mr Morrison today said he could not risk making an exception to the rules, after the government released details of a sixth vessel intercepted from Sri Lanka at the weekend.  'Now - at a time when there are increasing push factors come out of Sri Lanka - the worst possible thing you can do is to ... send a message which says: 'You know what, if you come illegally to Australia and the courts say you don't have a claim and the government say you don't have a claim, then the government just might make an exception because there's been a public reaction,' Mr Morrison said on Monday.  'That's not how you run strong borders.' Mr Morrison suggested the family come back and apply to stay the 'appropriate' way.   The family have brought a case to the Federal Court, to be heard on Wednesday. Regardless of the outcome, the family's future in Australia will be decided by Mr Dutton, the family's lawyer conceded.  'The only way this family is going to stay, even if the court application is successful, is for the minister to intervene because he is the only one that holds that power,' lawyer Carina Ford said.  The court injunction will expire at 4pm on Wednesday, meaning the family may be deported at some point after that time. Meanwhile, the number of signatures on a petition created by Ms Fredericks has ballooned past 240,000 people.  She said remains hopeful the family will come home to Biloela.  'Australians love people who come and who integrate and work hard and who don't make trouble,' said Ms Fredericks. 'That's primarily where I think this story has connected with people.'  
