{ By Kylie Stevens and Brittany Chain For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  01:33, 2 September 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7417247/Peter-Dutton-explains-Sri-Lankan-asylum-seeker-family-likely-deported-Australia.html }
A Tamil asylum seeker family who are desperate to stay in Australia weren't truthful in their visa applications, an immigration lawyer has claimed. Priya, her husband Nadesalingam and their Australian-born children Kopika, four, and Tharunicaa, two, are being held on Christmas Island after the family were granted an 11th-hour injunction against their deportation last week. The family could learn their fate within hours, with their case heard due to be held at Melbourne Federal Circuit Court on Monday morning.    A lawyer for the Government, Christopher Tran, described their battle to be determined 'refugees' as 'hopeless' last week.   Priya and Nadesalingam, who came to Australia separately by boat, have been fighting to stay on the grounds they face persecution in Sri Lanka due to links to militant group the Tamil Tigers (LTTE).  However, the family have not been 100 per cent truthful in their visa applications, according to immigration lawyer Simon Jeans. Scroll down for video   Nadesalingam claimed he was forced to join the Tamil Tigers in 2001 and was harassed by the Sri Lankan military, according to documents dated June last year.  The Immigration Assessment Authority rejected the claims on the basis he frequently travelled between Sri Lanka, Kuwait and Qatar for work between 2004 and 2010 during the civil war. 'Anyone who was associated with the LTTE or was suspected of being with the LTTE, would not have been coming and going into Sri Lanka,' Mr Jeans told the ABC. 'They would have been picked up by security forces.' Mr Jeans added that rallies across the nation on Sunday in protest of the family's treatment would only worsen their chances of staying in Australia. The immigration lawyer said media coverage and activism would force Immigration Minister David Coleman to make a decision and stick with it. 'If the Minister grants a visa to the family it just encourages more people to make media campaigns and it might be unfair for other people who may not be able to make as much noise in the community,' he told the publication.   As thousands flocked to rallies held across Australia in support of the family,  Mr Dutton said he refused take a 'moral lecture' on the case. In an opinion piece for The Courier Mail, the minister said the couple were told long before they had their two daughters that staying in Australia wasn't an option. 'We won't take a moral lecture when the reality is, we have a compassionate approach that is helping thousands each year, but where somebody has been told consistently all the way through to the High Court that they are not refugees, then those people have to return back to their country of origin, the minister wrote. 'Advocates claim a high moral ground but their approach results in people dying. Other Sri Lankan families with beautiful young children were part of the 1200 who died at sea, and they shouldn't be forgotten in this debate.'  Mr Dutton has since come under fire from radio broadcaster Alan Jones. 'I find the government's behaviour on this, and that of Peter Dutton, beyond disgraceful. Is this the same Peter Dutton, and Immigration Minister David Coleman, who personally intervened last year to stop two Au pairs who were to be deported,' Mr Jones told 2GB listeners on Monday. 'The former deputy secretary of the immigration department is on the record as saying, in the last 72 hours, it is quite clear that if you look at the ministerial guidelines this case meets those guidelines more clearly than the two au pair cases, in which Minister Dutton acted within hours. 'Ministerial intervention powers are designed to cater to where a person's not met the legal requirement for a visa but because of humanitarian or national interest grounds the government intervenes.' Mr Jones also revealed he had written to Prime Minister Scott Morrison pleading for 'practical Christianity.' Meanwhile, Australian Border Force intercepted a fourth boat in as many months carrying migrants from Sri Lanka last month. The arrivals come amid controversy surrounding the deportation of a Sri Lankan family-of-four from their home in rural Queensland after illegally migrating to Australia in 2012 and 2013.  The latest rickety vessel to arrive was found just west of Christmas Island on August 7 and held up to 13 Sri Lankan citizens. The latest boatload of Sri Lankan expectant asylum seekers is the fourth to be intercepted since the May 18 election, and the sixth this year, The Australian reported, holding more than 90 people. 'The threat out of Sri Lanka is really concerning,' Mr Dutton said.  'It is the reason Sri Lanka was the first country I visited after the election to make sure we can keep these boats stopped. This threat is very real. 'Labor wants people to believe that the threat of new boat arrivals is not real. It is. We are dealing with it everyday.'  May 11th: 20 people returned to Sri Lanka after a boat is intercepted. May 15th: Three people arrested in Sri Lanka for people smuggling related activity. May 23rd: Sri Lankan Navy rescues 41 potential illegal immigrants bound for Australia after a people smuggling boat breaks down. June 28th: Australian Border Force intercept a vessel holding five asylum seekers. They are all returned to Sri Lanka. August 17th-20th: One person arrested in relation to a potential people smuggling enterprise. 22 people who were believed to be destined for Australia were stopped.  The minister said Australia took in more than 18,000 genuine asylum seekers each year, but that number should not include people who are not genuine refugees but instead seeking financial gain.  That was why Mr Dutton stood by the decision to send the family back to Colombo in Sri Lanka. He said allowing them to stay would encourage more illegal immigrants so Priya, Nadesalingam and their girls had to be returned to Sri Lanka at some point. He said Sri Lanka was no longer suffering the Sinhalese-Tamil conflict, and was doing well with an elected leader that was 'embracing' returning refugees.  The family represented a handful of the 1,500 refugees sent back to Sri Lanka recently, after more than 50,000 people arrived in the country illegally by boat during the Rudd/Gillard government era when refugee applicants were taken into Australia rather than being processed offshore. Mr Dutton said many of those people had similar stories to Priya's family - seeking a better life rather than being in need of refuge. The minister's arguments were cutting little ice with protestors, who took to the streets across Australian cities on Sunday in support of the family. Even conservative figures such as Barnaby Joyce and Alan Jones had said the family should be allowed to stay, as they were a hardworking couple with two children who were born in Australia, who contribute to their small town of Biloela in rural Queensland.  Their neighbours are also desperate for them to stay, and protests have been held around the nation pleading with the government to reconsider.  The family were bundled on to a flight back to Colombo, Sri Lanka, on Thursday, but a last minute legal injunction forced the plane to land in Darwin while their refugee claims were assessed for another time. Mr Dutton said their case had already been heard in the Federal Magistrates Court, the Federal Court and the High Court, and each time the ruling was that they were not genuine refugees. The family were eventually flown to the re-opened detention centre on Christmas Island, where they remained on Monday morning.  Newly surfaced footage of the family on the plane showed Kopika and Tharunicaa distressed and screaming as their parents tried to console them.  The video was taken on the parent's mobile phones, which were confiscated upon landing back in Australia. Christmas Island became a temporary home for the latest batch of Sri Lankan asylum seekers who tried to arrive this month. They remained on the island until August 18th, when they were flown home. Mr Dutton quoted United Nations statistics which suggested some 68 million people worldwide hoped for a better life in a developed country.  Federal Greens leader Richard Di Natale described the situation as senseless and cruel as he spoke at a rally in Melbourne protesting the deportation.  'This is a minister in Peter Dutton taking pleasure in the suffering of others, that's what going on here. It's barbaric, it's cruel and it needs to end.' 'This is senseless cruelty. This is cruelty for the sake of being cruel,' he said.  Federal Labor MP Tanya Plibersek said: 'It's a bit rich for Peter Dutton to talk about precedent when he's prepared to use his ministerial powers to allow au pairs to enter the country.'  But Mr Dutton pointed out that Labor's supposed compassion in ending offshore processing saw '1,200 people drown at sea.'    'I have not had one death at sea on my watch and I don't intend to let that happen now.'  2012 and 2013: Nades and Priya arrived in Australia separately by boat fleeing violence from Sri Lanka's civil war. 2014: The family moved to Biloela in Queensland, where they lived and worked for four years on a temporary bridging visa. March 2018: The temporary bridging visa ran out and they were taken to a Melbourne detention centre after a pre-dawn raid of their home. May 2018: High Court denied their final big to stay in Australia. August 2019: The family found out their efforts to stay in the country were rejected with supporters calling on federal immigration minister to reconsider. August 29, 2019: The family boarded a flight back to Sri Lanka, but it was intercepted last minute after Judge Heather Riley granted an injunction to block the move. August 30, 2019: They had a hearing in Melbourne's Federal Circuit Court at 10am. The injunction was extended and the family cannot be removed from Australia until at least 4pm Wednesday.  The family was quietly transported on another flight to Christmas Island.  August 31 2019: After losing contact with the family on Friday night, supporters learned just after 2am on Saturday they had arrived at a detention centre.  August 30 2019: Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton stands his ground and insist the family should not be allowed to stay in an opinion piece for The Courier Mail. September 1 2019: Thousands attend rallies across the country in support of the family's fight to stay.  September 2 2019:  Family's case due to be heard at Melbourne Federal Circuit Court on Monday morning. 
