{ By Deirdre Simonds For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:20, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8035605/Justin-Bieber-performs-emotional-gospel-ballad-Kanye-Wests-Sunday-Service.html }
Justin Bieber was among hundreds devoted to celebrating Christ at Kanye West's Sunday Service.  While attending the religious gathering, the 25-year-old Yummy singer made a surprise performance of Marvin Sapp's gospel hit Never Would Have Made It to a roaring crowd.  'Never could have made it, without you,' Bieber sang, while wearing a red hoodie after a moving performance of Every Hour by West and his chorus in a video shared on Kim Kardashian's Instagram Story.  The audience grew more vocal, as he passionately sang: 'I'm stronger, I'm wiser/ I'm better, much better/When I look back over all you brought me through.'  During his performance Bieber beamed, as one attendee pointed to the sky and others clapped enthusiastically.  As Bieber closed his emotional performance, asking to be 'set free,' he jumped off the stage to give the 42-year-old Follow God singer a sweet embrace.  While Kardashian only filmed the back of the pop superstar's head, the smooth vocals undeniably belonged to the Sorry hitmaker.  Bieber was among a few special performers on Sunday, which also included performances from Roddy Ricch and Rob Base.   West's firstborn child North, 6, could be dancing excitedly in the crowd in additional videos captured by the KKW Beauty founder.   Justin first expressed interest in one of Yeezy's gospel gatherings after performing at another church last March.  'My whole message at church the other day was there's power in your weakness,' he told TMZ at the time.  Practicing Christianity is important to Bieber and wife Hailey Baldwin, who are regulars at the Hillsong Church in LA.  The devoted churchgoers recently opened up about how faith plays a major role in his long-term plans, including when he'll have children.  'When you accept Jesus, he says that now you walk with the Holy Spirit. So, I think I just want to be led by the Holy Spirit,' said in an interview with Apple Music's Zane Lowe to promote his new album Changes, which became his seventh record to hit number one.  Before beginning a family, however, he would like to 'go on tour, be married, enjoy travelling with just us, build more of our relationship.' 
