christianity
{ By Joe Pinkstone For Mailonline    Published:  10:08, 19 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7370855/One-Englands-oldest-stone-churches-unearthed-team-archaeologists.html }
One of the oldest stone churches in the UK is being excavated to learn more about how Christianity spread across the country. A dig in Lyminge, near Folkestone, has unearthed a stone church which was built from stone around 633AD by the Christian pioneer Ethelburga of Kent, the second wife of King Edwin. Its creation required a host of new skills and materials to be brought in from Europe in order to overhaul the architectural practices of the time. Most buildings and places of worship dedicated to the Pagan religion that dominated the British Isles in the 7th century were made from wood. An archaeological project headed by the University of Reading has revealed extra detail about the history of Christianity in England and its inception.  The church, measuring only 50ft (15m) x 15ft (5m), has a rather unique triple arch design which separates the chancel from the nave. It is thought the church may have been used 'on a habitual basis' by a small group of upper-class women - but services would have been led by a male priest. Scroll down for video   The church has already revealed a host of interesting findings, with the skeleton of a child as well as Ethelburga's own tomb.     Analysis of the skeleton found the child to be around 8 or 9 years old, but failed to determine its sex.  Other finds at the site include a 14-century clipped silver 14th century penny as well as a chunk of limestone believed to form the original column in the triple-arches.  Visitors to the site, near modern-day Folkestone, can see the current progress of the dig.  Project manager Rob Baldwin told Kent Online: 'The body is probably medieval, dating to the period after the Anglo-Saxon church had been demolished, which was probably in the 11th century, and before the current church porch was built in the 16th century. Kent is widely regarded as Christianity's corridor into England in the Dark Ages.  Pope Gregory began a mission to take the church to Britain and picked the southern county as the landing spot for his man on the ground, a bishop called Augustine.  The French Christian wife, Bertha, of the King of Kent, Ethelbert, received the Pope's man and he later convinced the king to be baptised.  Their daughter, Ethelburga, was seized by King Edwin of the north in 620AD and her strong beliefs saw the birth of York Minster and later on, the stone church in Lyminge.  However, the religion and its European origins demanded grandeur and expertise which did not exist in England as most buildings were made from wood.  An influx of expertise and materials were needed in order to erect adequate stone churches. A deluge of new techniques, materials and masons flooded the British coastline in order to fashion the new places of worship.  Gabor Thomas, head of the excavation at the University of Reading told The Times: '[The church] dates from this period when there is a febrile environment, with religion getting incorporated into power politics among the various Anglo-Saxon dynasties.  'These buildings are important symbols; they proclaim and advertise faith in this environment. 'These completely exotic new forms of building suddenly start appearing in the Kentish landscape,' he said, adding that the excavation had revealed a building that was 'like a Roman temple... it is so classical in style'.  Britain was a fractious nation in the 7th Century AD, still looking for stability several centuries after the collapse of the Roman empire.  At this point, various kings ruled over different regions of land and many languages and religions dominated certain locales.  The exact date of the church is not known, but it is though to be around 633AD, or shortly after, when Ethelburga, a native of Kent, likely returned to her homeland following the death of her husband, Edwin.  Edwin was the son of Ethelfrith, a Northumbrian king who was known for his warring prowess and repeated skirmished with the Gododdin, a fierce celtic-speaking people from the north-east area of the then-called 'Britannia'.  King Redwalld of East Anglia dominated the centre of the country, and established the kingdom of Mercia while the Picts dominated modern-day Scotland.  Another king ruled the south-east, with Ethelbert of Kent and his French Christian wife Bertha in command of the region.  These royals had been visited by a bishop from Rome in 597AD called Augustine after Pope Gregory sent him on a mission to take Christianity to the British isles.  The Pope's sudden interest in the British isles is believed to stem from a chance encounter with two 'Angli' slaves in an Italian slave market. Their blonde hair and fair skin captivated the Pope and he immediately said of the inhabitants of England, known as Angels at the time: 'Non Angli sed angeli'.  Directly translated into English it means 'not Angels but angels of God'.   His instant infatuation was the kickstarter for the Roman clergy to begin their efforts to bring Evangelicalism to the desolate and divided nation.  Augustine, and a further 40 Benedictines, landed in Thanet and were met by Ethelbert and Bertha.  The mission massed its litmus test in 602AD when the English king decided to join his wife's beliefs and opted to be baptised.  He then also donated a certain site in Canterbury which would be home to the first, and most important, cathedral in the country.  Augustine duly became Canterbury Cathedral's first archbishop.   Meanwhile, the feared Ethelfrith from the north died and was succeeded by his son, Edwin, who soon mounted a charge on the rest of Britannia.   His vast army descended from the north and swept through Mercia and into Kent.  The mission ended in the conquest of the south-east and Edwin seized Ethelburga, daughter of Ethelbert and Bertha, as his trophy.  She became his second wife and her devote Christian beliefs went with her to the north.   A Roman monk was also claimed as part of Edwin's spoils and he performed a baptism on the young King Edwin. This monk was then assigned the task of founding what is now one of the most iconic christian sites in the UK, York Minster.  After Edwin abandoned his Pagan beliefs, his reflective approach was not matched by all his contemporaries.  His high priest was so inflamed by the king's decision he hurled a spear into his own temple and ordered conflagration.   In 633AD King Cadwallen of Gwynedd and King Penda of Mercia invaded Northumbria and killed Edwin in battle. He was defeated during the Battle of Hatfield Chase and left Ethelburga widowed.   
