christianity
{ By Tim Collins For Mailonline   Published:  12:29, 12 August 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7348295/How-Swedish-sculptor-brings-life-faces-people-died-thousands-years-ago.html }
Faces of people who died thousands of years ago have been revealed in stunning pictures, after they were expertly reconstructed by a Swedish sculptor.  Oscar Nilsson, from Stockholm, spends around 200 hours on each face he recreates, using skulls found at archaeological digs as a base. He creates digital scans of these skulls to map them in perfect detail and uses a 3D printer to rebuild them, forming a base for him to work from. He then uses his knowledge of anatomy to overlay muscles and is steered by scientific findings - including DNA analysis - surrounding the specific find site to add details like skin, hair and eye colour, and clothing.  To date, he has recreated a Viking noblewoman, the founder of Stockholm, an ancient Peruvian queen, people from various eras of Britain's past and a 40,000-year-old Cro Magnon man found in France.    Estrid Sigfastsdotter is the name given to one of the oldest human skeletal remains found in Sweden.  She is thought to have  lived around 1020AD around  She is thought to have  lived around 1020AD around where Täby church village in Täby municipality sits today. She is one of the first known Christians in Sweden. It is thought this is the case due to the custom of Vikings burning their dead before the entrance of Christianity.  Mr Nilsson has been working for various museums around the world for 20 years and says he finds his work fascinating, as every face is so unique.  He wanted to become a forensic artist when he studied archaeology at university in the 90s. 'I simply wanted to see what the people from history look like,' he added. 'I love faces and history.'  Mr Nilsson creates forensic reconstructions of archaeological findings using the highest scientific techniques and standards, ultimately portraying what the individual most likely looked like in life. The process starts with making a 3D replica of the original skull.  Mr Nilsson reconstructs the muscles and features of the individual to get it as realistic as possible and he then casts the faces in skin pigmented silicone, human hair - inserted strand by strand - and prosthetic eyes. 'I hope people get a feeling of "I know this guy",' he said. 'It is the most effective way to make history relevant, especially to the younger generations. 'Most often when people see my work they say "I know him/her" or "she looks exactly like my aunt".  'Our brains try to identify the face and, if the face is this realistic, the brain process becomes highly active.  People also always try to interpret the emotional status from the face.'  Although her name is unknown, she was a noblewoman who lived and died in the South American country. She was laid to rest some 1,200 years ago inside the El Castillo de Huarmey tomb, which was part of a large temple for the Wari culture: a middle-horizon civilization that flourished from about AD 500. There, she was buried with more than fifty other women, but her status was clear: she had her own private chamber and was surrounded by jewelry and gold. Otherwise known as Birger Magnusson, Birger Jar was a statesman who played a pivotal role in the consolidation of Sweden - the fusing of the loosely-affiliated social systems under the King's power. He is also widely considered to have founded the Swedish capital, Stockholm, circa 1250.  Birger died on 21 October 1266. His grave in Västergötland - his birthplace - was opened in May 2002.  Swedish sculptor Oscar Nilsson collaborates with scientists and craftsmen around the world to bring historical faces to life. Mr Nilsson uses CT scans of a skull to digitally map the shape of skulls uncovered by archaeologists. He then uses a 3D printer to rebuild these skulls, forming a base for him to work from. He then recreates muscles over this printed structure, using his knowledge of human anatomy as a guide. Interpretive details such as skin, hair and eye colour, as well as clothing, are steered by scientific findings, including DNA analysis, about the time, place and culture surrounding the find.  One of Mr Nilsson's latest projects was to recreate the faces of some of the earliest people to live in Britain and Europe, to show what they may have looked like and tell their story. This was part of an exhibition at Brighton Museum, focused on seven people, arranged chronologically, five of whom were early residents of Brighton & Hove. Among the sculptures featured were people who lived during the last Ice Age, the Stone Age, Bronze Age, Iron Age, Roman, and Anglo-Saxon periods.  One, known as Ditchling Road man was buried in a shallow grave in a crouched position, lying on his left side with a decorated ceramic ‘beaker’ on its side by his feet and a barbed and tanged arrow head under his skull. He lived between 4,287- 4,125 years ago and was between 25 and 35 when he died. A quantity of snail shells were found opposite his mouth. It seems to have been a basic burial, indicating the man was probably not high status. Limited DNA results show he probably had light skin, blue eyes, blonde hair. We also know he suffered from loss of teeth and tooth decay. Neanderthal woman is a 45,000 year-old finding from Gibraltar, Spain.  Her well-preserved skull was unearthed in 1848 during excavations at the northern end of the Rock of Gibraltar.    In 1926, a second Neanderthal skull was found at a rock shelter close to the same site.  Much less complete than the first skull, it was later identified as that of a four-year-old child - possibly Neanderthal Woman's offspring.     She lived between 5650–5520 years ago and lived to age 19-25. She was small and slender with dark North African or Southern Mediterranean skin. Her eyes were brown and her hair would have been a light shade of brown. Her general health was good but the bones of a baby were found nestling in her pelvis which point to the probability that she died in childbirth. Tests on the isotope and chemical make-up from her teeth suggest she came from an area such as Hereford.   Patcham woman dates from the years 210 – 356. She was likely to have been 25 - 35 years of age.  This petite and slender woman was found lying on her side with a nail impaled in the back of her skull. She was likely to have light skin, blue eyes and blonde hair and according to historical research had lived a hard physical life. Her spine shows signs of stress (bending and lifting) and joint disease in her right knee and lower spine. A further mystery is the male skeleton who was also uncovered lying feet to feet with her, looking in the same direction but obviously pointing away from her. It's not clear who Adelasius Ebalchus was, but scientists believe he was important - his skeleton was discovered in 2014. Found in the town of Grenchen in northern Switzerland, he was found near 40 other bodies - but had a rock-lined grave, which suggests he was revered.   Based on his remains, researchers determined Adelasius was roughly 21 years old and about 5 feet, 6 inches tall.  Analysis of his bones suggests he suffered from chronic osteomyelitis and vitamin deficiencies— both of which are likely to have been major contributing factors to his relatively early death.   Discovered in 1985 during building works, Stafford Road Man is among the first wave of Saxons to enter Britain after the collapse of the Roman Empire.  Buried with a spear and a knife around 500 A.D., he lived an unusually long and active life and died after the age of 45.  Apart from arthritis in his spine, shoulders, and hips, skeletal analysis shows Stafford Road Man suffered from an enormous dental abscess, which would have caused terrible pain and likely killed him after the infection spread to his brain.  Another, known as Patcham woman, dates from the years 210 – 356 AD. She was likely to have been 25 - 35 years of age. Mystery surrounds the death of Patcham woman whose body revealed a gruesome discovery. This petite and slender woman was found lying on her side with a nail impaled in the back of her skull. She was likely to have light skin, blue eyes and blonde hair and according to historical research had lived a hard physical life.  Her spine shows signs of stress, including bending and lifting, as well as joint disease in her right knee and lower spine.   Another, Whitehawk Girl, lived between 5650–5520 years ago and lived to age 19-25. She was small and slender with dark North African or Southern Mediterranean skin and Her eyes were brown and her hair would have been a light shade of brown.  He was found in France and whose species of early human lived in Europe from about 40,000 to 10,000 years ago  The skeletal remains for this early modern man also came from elsewhere in Europe, but tools manufactured by homo sapiens show that modern humans were living in Brighton just as the Neanderthals were going extinct.  Studies show that Neanderthals and modern humans may have overlapped in Europe for as much as 4,000 years.   Ditchling Road man was buried in a shallow grave in a crouched position, lying on his left side with a decorated ceramic ‘beaker’ on its side by his feet and a barbed and tanged arrow head under his skull. He lived between 4,287- 4,125 years ago and was between 25 and 35 when he died. A quantity of snail shells were found opposite his mouth. It seems to have been a basic burial, indicating the man was probably not high status.    She was thought to have lived in Greece some 9,000 years ago, at the end of the Mesolithic period around 7000 B.C. Her name is assumed to have been Avgi, which translates to Dawn. Her malnourished bones initially suggested that she was 15-years-old, but analysis of her teeth reveal she was actually 18-years-old.   In another project, Mr Nillson recreated the appearance of Birger Jarl, the founder and first ruler of Stockholm, whose skull was discovered buried in a church.  In another, he recreated the weathered face of a Peruvian queen buried with a vast trove of jewels and treasure 1,200 years ago. His team spent 220 hours hand-crafting the features of the wealthy Noblewoman, who was at least 60 years old when she died, using a 3D-printed cast of her skull and data on her bone and muscle structure. Archaeologists uncovered the tomb of the so-called Huarmey Queen alongside 57 female aristocrats from the Wari culture, an ancient people that ruled the region centuries before the famous Incas. Scientists say the woman was buried in particular splendour, with her body kept in a private chamber surrounded by jewellery and other luxuries, including gold ear flares, a copper ceremonial axe, and a silver goblet. The timeline of human evolution can be traced back millions of years. Experts estimate that the family tree goes as such: 55 million years ago - First primitive primates evolve 15 million years ago - Hominidae (great apes) evolve from the ancestors of the gibbon 7 million years ago - First gorillas evolve. Later, chimp and human lineages diverge 5.5 million years ago - Ardipithecus, early 'proto-human' shares traits with chimps and gorillas 4 million years ago - Ape like early humans, the Australopithecines appeared. They had brains no larger than a chimpanzee's but other more human like features  3.9-2.9 million years ago - Australoipithecus afarensis lived in Africa.   2.7 million years ago - Paranthropus, lived in woods and had massive jaws for chewing   2.6 million years ago - Hand axes become the first major technological innovation  2.3 million years ago - Homo habilis first thought to have appeared in Africa 1.85 million years ago - First 'modern' hand emerges   1.8 million years ago - Homo ergaster begins to appear in fossil record  800,000 years ago - Early humans control fire and create hearths. Brain size increases rapidly 400,000 years ago - Neanderthals first begin to appear and spread across Europe and Asia 300,000 to 200,000 years ago - Homo sapiens - modern humans - appear in Africa 50,000 to 40,000 years ago - Modern humans reach Europe  
