christianity
{ By Tracy Wright For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:42, 31 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7307081/Jonathan-Van-Ness-urges-Mario-Lopez-better-dangerous-comments-conservative-show.html }
He's known for staying open and optimistic even in the face of adversity. And Jonathan Van Ness urged Mario Lopez to 'do better' after the television host made questionable comments that negatively impact the transgender community during a sit-down with Candace Owens. The 32-year-old Queer Eye star took to Twitter to share a few choice words explaining why Lopez's comments on the conservative show were unnecessary.  'If you’re not raising a child who is part of the LGBTQ+ community you should really be quiet,' Van Ness wrote to his followers. 'You don’t need to understand what you do not know. You both need to do better, your causal transphobia is par for the course. Christianity says leave judgment to god.'  Mario joined the conservative pundit earlier this year on her podcast and discussed this 'new trend' where Hollywood celebrities are, as Candace described, 'saying their child is picking their gender.' 'I am trying to understand it myself, and please don’t lump me into that whole [group],' Lopez responded. 'I’m kind of blown away too. Look, I’m never one to tell anyone how to parent their kids obviously and I think if you come from a place of love, you really can’t go wrong but at the same time, my God, if you're three-years-old and you’re saying you’re feeling a certain way or you think you’re a boy or a girl or whatever the case may be.  'I just think it's dangerous as a parent to make this determination then, well, OK, then you’re going to a boy or a girl, whatever the case may be ... It's sort of alarming and my gosh, I just think about the repercussions later on.' Jonathan added on Twitter: 'The persecution that trans & non binary people face bc some small minded people are blindly identified with the gender binary is deadly. Trans & Non binary people face violence, death, homelessness, discrimination because of this constant lack of understanding and need to judge.' Karamo Brown also chimed in on the harsh words from Lopez and wrote: 'I don’t think @MarioLopezExtra should be ‘canceled’. But I do believe he should be given the opportunity to learn why his comments are harmful to trans youth and their parents. Mario, I’m ready to talk when you are.'   Van Ness was feeling when Karamo seemingly outed his new relationship with co-star Antoni Porowski on Instagram Tuesday night. The 38-year-old culture connoisseur threw some shade form the background of a loved-up photo of Jonathan and Antoni before taking to the comments section and announcing their love.   'These pics are so cute I posted another one. I love my Antoni bae & @karamo jealousy doesn’t look good on you,' Jonathan captioned a flirty photo.  Brown flashed his middle finger in the photo, but was quick to respond to the grooming expert. 'Hahahahaha I love you both! And for all who are asking. It’s real,' Karamo wrote. 'They are a couple and in love. First Fab 5 couple.' Fans erupted with likes and comments, but many were cautious to believe the new relationship as Antoni and Jonathan are often innocently affectionate.  'Baes between takes,' Van Ness captioned a kissing photo earlier this month.  Another photo posted in July poked fun at the faux relationship as Antoni smiled underneath Jonathan's warm embrace. 'It was all Antoni's idea but maybe someday we will fall in love,' he wrote and followed up with the hashtag: not a couple but it was fun right.  Van Ness couldn't keep his followers in the dark for much longer and later tweeted that he wasn't in an actual relationship with Porowski. 'Also for clarification, @antoni & I are a couple.... of very close friends who run a satirical couple account and may fall in love someday, but that day is not necessarily today. Love yew hauxs.'  
