christianity
{ By Sarah Vine for the Daily Mail   Published:  22:43, 30 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//debate/article-7303147/SARAH-VINE-British-rape-accusers-saga-reveals-ugly-truth-Love-Island.html }
Talk about a tale of our times. A 19-year-old British woman accused 12 Israeli men of gang-raping her in Ayia Napa, but then changed her mind and withdrew the charges. The blonde teenager allegedly told police she had filed a report of rape as revenge after the men allegedly filmed her having consensual sex with three of them. She herself now faces charges of ‘public mischief’, and will be named if she’s found guilty. The men, meanwhile — released from custody and now back home in Israel — are preparing to launch a legal action against her. If it’s true she made up the rape story, that’s a very serious criminal matter. But for their part, these young men should be ashamed of themselves. Arriving at Tel Aviv airport, they celebrated by posting a video on social media chanting: ‘The Brit woman is a whore.’ In other words, no one comes out of it smelling of bougainvillea. But the real question, in my mind, is not so much which side is at fault. It’s what this tawdry saga tells us about sex and morality in the modern world — and, in particular, in swelteringly hot resorts all over Europe right now. Because, let’s face it, this sort of feral behaviour is becoming increasingly common. Indeed, among certain groups of people in certain situations — on holiday, under the influence of alcohol or drugs — it has become the norm. As, too, has the practice of sharing exploits on social media. There is a difference between letting off steam and being so disinhibited you end up in bed with someone you’ve just met, and possibly a couple of their pals, too. Youngsters have always enjoyed letting their hair down on holiday. But what’s unusual about this wave of debauchery is that the older generation is at it, too. In the Spanish resort of Benidorm, older Brits — in their 50s and 60s — are causing similar levels of chaos with marathon drink, drug and sex sessions. This week, a drunken British couple in charge of three children were arrested at Gibraltar airport after the woman fell over in the departure lounge. Call me old-fashioned, but I think there’s something especially weird about a mother who gets in that kind of state in front of her own children. There’s no doubt in my mind that shows like Love Island, which finished on Monday night, have their part to play in this lack of personal responsibility. Its entire premise is to get semi-naked men and women to have sex with each other for the entertainment of the viewing public. And when they do, the morality of what’s going on is never called into question on the show. Instead, the contestants are rewarded with prize money and lucrative contracts, all predicated on their willingness to bare almost all in an ever-decreasing spiral of self-abasement. Depressingly, the live viewing figures for this week’s finale hit a record high of 3.6 million. That’s an awful lot of people swallowing the message that casual hook-ups are a natural — even expected — part of a sun-kissed trip abroad. I don’t deny I’ve watched Love Island with my daughter and found it diverting enough. Some will say I’m being an old prude. But when the amoral code it promotes lands a British teenager in a Cypriot courtroom after a liaison with a group of men, surely no one can deny there’s something sick at the heart of this hedonism. We all have our cross to bear. For some, it’s lifelong illness, for others poverty or war. For actress Natalie Portman, hers is being beautiful. She says she constantly has to fight against being valued only for her looks. If ever there were proof of the kind of absurd bubble that alienates the rich and fabulous from ordinary people, this is it. Seventies glam rockers Wizzard have got their wish: it is now Christmas every day...or at least for visitors to Selfridges, which has opened its Christmas shop — five months before the event (right). What with that and crazy golf pulling in punters to the nave at Rochester Cathedral, Christianity seems to be giving up all pretence of a spiritual dimension. What is it Matthew says in the Bible? ‘Ye cannot serve God and Mammon.’ Not in this topsy-turvy century of ours. Two biscuits a day is all it takes to tip the scales into the red. So it would be wrong for the Government to capitulate on so-called ‘sin taxes’. The argument is they hit the poor harder than the rich. But obesity disproportionately blights the lives of those on low incomes, too. There are times when you have to do the right thing, not the easy thing. This is one of them. Epic Games, makers of Fortnite, must be delighted with coverage of their world cup, not least the elation of the Essex teenager who won $1 million. But with the money involved in buying virtual bolt-ons and enhanced gaming packs, the 15-year-old and others like him are pawns in the real game — which is about vast corporate profits built on the backs of those who can least afford it. For all the flak Meghan’s been getting (including some from me) for guest-editing Vogue, there is something she chose that I did enjoy: Matt Haig’s poem A Note From The Beach, which he recited on the Today programme. The line about this great natural phenomenon, the product of years of erosion by the sea, being ‘entirely indifferent to your body mass index’ made me smile. It put into clever context all the silly paranoias we feel about our bodies. The fact, of course, that it appears in a fashion magazine known for its adoration of the perfect skinny figure is something that I am happy to overlook. And so Boris Johnson and Carrie Symonds become the first unmarried couple to occupy 10 Downing Street (well, technically it’s the flat in No.11). The fact that 92,000 of the country’s arguably most conservative people voted for Johnson to become Prime Minister shows that much of the hysteria around the move is misplaced: if it doesn’t bother the Tory faithful, the chances of it bothering the rest of the country are slim. That said, why anyone would willingly live there if they could avoid it is beyond me. There is something about the constant Press presence, the fact that you are surrounded at all hours of the day and night by civil servants and political aides, the way you can’t even pop out for a pint of milk without it becoming a story that makes it the ultimate gilded cage. In the case of Boris and Carrie, there is the added drama of the fact he is not yet divorced from his wife, Marina. Even if you take the view that people’s private lives are none of anyone else’s business (and I do), Carrie’s arrival at No. 10 makes it impossible for either her or Boris to plead for space and privacy if and when — as happened with their recent row at her flat in Camberwell — they find they need it. Personally, I would have waited until the divorce had come through, and maybe kept a low profile at Chequers, which is not so very far away from London (not when you have police motorcycle outriders, at any rate). The place is huge. There are no nosy neighbours with recording devices and, as far as I remember, there is an abundance of ancient leather furniture — ideal if you are at all prone to the odd red wine spillage. 
