christianity
{ By Tracy Wright For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:12, 31 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7306441/Queer-Eyes-Jonathan-Van-Ness-Antoni-Porowski-couple-love.html }
All things just keep getting better for the Fab Five. And Queer Eye star Karamo Brown confirmed that Jonathan Van Ness and Antoni Porowski are 'a couple' on Instagram Tuesday night. The 38-year-old culture connoisseur threw some shade form the background of a loved-up photo of Jonathan and Antoni before taking to the comments section and announcing their love.   'These pics are so cute I posted another one. I love my Antoni bae & @karamo jealousy doesn’t look good on you,' Jonathan captioned a flirty photo.  Brown flashed his middle finger in the photo, but was quick to respond to the grooming expert. 'Hahahahaha I love you both! And for all who are asking. It’s real,' Karamo wrote. 'They are a couple and in love. First Fab 5 couple.' Fans erupted with likes and comments, but many were cautious to believe the new relationship as Antoni and Jonathan are often innocently affectionate.  'Baes between takes,' Van Ness captioned a kissing photo earlier this month.  Another photo posted in July poked fun at the faux relationship as Antoni smiled underneath Jonathan's warm embrace. 'It was all Antoni's idea but maybe someday we will fall in love,' he wrote and followed up with the hashtag: not a couple but it was fun right.  When Van Ness eventually dispelled the rumor via tweet, Porowski jokingly commented: 'Babe, what?! Um call me rn.'  Despite the fun online, Jonathan took a more serious tone on Twitter after Mario Lopez said it was 'dangerous' for parents to support their children who identify as transgender.  'If you’re not raising a child who is part of the LGBTQ+ community you should really be quiet,' Van Ness wrote to his followers. 'You don’t need to understand what you do not know. You both need to do better, your causal transphobia is par for the course. Christianity says leave judgment to god.'  He added: 'The persecution that trans & non binary people face bc some small minded people are blindly identified with the gender binary is deadly. Trans & Non binary people face violence, death, homelessness, discrimination because of this constant lack of understanding and need to judge.' Karamo also chimed in on the harsh words from Lopez and wrote: 'I don’t think @MarioLopezExtra should be ‘canceled’. But I do believe he should be given the opportunity to learn why his comments are harmful to trans youth and their parents. Mario, I’m ready to talk when you are.' 
