christianity
{ By Jennifer Smith For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:46, 29 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7298505/Christian-leaders-warn-against-rise-Christian-nationalism.html }
A group of Christians have hit out against the rise of 'Christian nationalism' which they say is being used as a cover for white supremacy. In a statement on Monday, 17 leaders of churches and organizations around the country joined forces to form Christians Against Christian Nationalism.  They released a statement on a newly formed website denouncing white supremacy and distancing themselves from it.  'Christian nationalism seeks to merge Christian and American identities, distorting both the Christian faith and America’s constitutional democracy.  Christian nationalism demands Christianity be privileged by the State and implies that to be a good American, one must be Christian.   'It often overlaps with and provides cover for white supremacy and racial subjugation.  'We reject this damaging political ideology and invite our Christian brothers and sisters to join us in opposing this threat to our faith and to our nation,' the statement read.  The post called on other Christians to join their cause and fight the rise of Christian nationalism, saying: 'Whether we worship at a church, mosque, synagogue, or temple, America has no second-class faiths.  'All are equal under the U.S. Constitution. 'As Christians, we must speak in one voice condemning Christian nationalism as a distortion of the gospel of Jesus and a threat to American democracy.'  In recent years, there has been a spike in the number of white supremacist rallies across the country.  At many, marchers carry crosses or religious paraphernalia.  The cross is also a favorite symbol of the Ku Klux Klan.  Among those who joined the group was Rev. Michael B. Curry, the Reverend who presided over Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's wedding in May last year.  He dazzled global audiences with his energetic sermon about love and equality.  
