christianity
{ By David Martosko, U.s. Political Editor For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:51, 25 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7287197/Monica-Crowley-said-Obama-loyalties-Islam-slated-Treasurys-spokeswoman.html }
Monica Crowley, a conservative author and former Fox News Channel pundit who President Trump named as the next Treasury Department spokeswoman this month, spread Islamophobic slurs about President Barack Obama starting a decade ago, claiming that he had secret loyalties to Islam that made him an untrustworthy leader. CNN found old blog posts and tweets from Obama's time in office in which Crowley suggested America's 44th president was himself a Muslim, despite his profession of Christian faith, and equated that to supporting 'the enemy.' She also spread the 'birther' conspiracy theory that Obama was born in Kenya, rendering him constitutionally ineligible to be president. Crowley was set to take over as senior director of strategic communications for the White House's National Security Council when Trump took office in January 2017, until more than 50 charges of plagiarism derailed her. Publisher HarperCollins pulled her 2012 book from circulation as a result of the ensuing publicity. TrumpWorld considered the episode a politically motivated attack from CNN. LIke that battle, her latest mini-scandal appears to be of her own making.  The former syndicated talk show host criticized Obama in 2010 for supporting a plan to erect a Mosque near the site of the 9/11 attacks in New York City.   'Maybe politics didn't have anything to do with it, but Islam certainly did. And does,' Crowley wrote. 'Obama was born to a Muslim father, which under Islam automatically made him a Muslim. He says he converted to Christianity as an adult, which under Islam makes him an apostate.' 'He was steeped in Islam throughout his formative years, so it should come as no surprise that he has loyalties to Islam,' she added, crescendoing to a climax of the kind that became commonplace on the political right as Obama cruised to re-election. 'It may not come as a shock that he appears loyal to Islam. The question is: can he be both loyal to Islam and loyal to the United States?' Crowley wrote. 'How could he....support the enemy?'  Elsewhere, CNN found, she claimed the Muslim Brotherhood had 'found an ally' in Obama: 'What does that say about Obama? I'm sure you can figure that one out.' Crowley left Fox News in 2016.  As Obama began his first term in 2009, she complained about his decision to include his middle name 'Hussein' when he took his oath of office. Presidents generally recite their full names at inaugural ceremonies. And she railed against his decision to phase out the military prison at Guantanamo Bay and order an end to 'enhanced interrogation' techniques like waterboarding.  'Now comes word that he is granting his first formal television interview as president to Al-Arabiya,' Crowley vented. 'Tells you where his head is, and possibly, his sympathies. Just sayin'.' The former Washington Times columnist and online editor was accused of lifting numerous passages of her book, 'What The (Bleep) Just Happened,' news stories, columns and Wikipedia articles. Like her other missives, the 2012 book was roundly critical of Obama. Former vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin and current Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani praised it when it first hit store shelves.  The suspect passages also appeared in a 2013 re-issue that contained a new foreword about Obama's re-election.   Gen. Michael Flynn, at the time Trump's new national security adviser, said in late January that the National Security Counsil would 'miss the opportunity to have Monica Crowley as part of our team. We wish her all the best in her future,' Flynn's statement read. Trump fired him days later after learning that he had misled Vice President Pence and the FBI about his pre-inauguration contacts with the diplomat who was then the Russian ambassador to the U.S. Crowley went on to represent a pro-Russia Ukrainian oligarch, providing lobbying 'outreach services' on behalf of Victor Pinchuk. Government lobbying disclosures showed in 2017 that she was paid $40,000 per month for the work. Crowley also faced plagiarism allegations in 1999 after The Wall Street Journal published a piece she wrote to mark the 25th anniversary of President Richard Nixon's resignation. 'There are striking similarities in phraseology between "The Day Richard Nixon Said Goodbye," an editorial feature Monday by Monica Crowley, and a 1988 article by Paul Johnson in Commentary magazine,' the Journal noted a few days later. 'Had we known of the parallels, we would not have published the article.' Crowley also plagiarized several sections of her doctoral dissertation at Columbia University, Politico Magazine said. The publication found more than a dozen instances in which Crowley appeared to lift writing from other works without providing proper attribution.   Crowley's book 'A critical part of Keynesian theory is the multiplier effect, first introduced by British economist and Keynes protégé Richard Kahn in the 1930s. It essentially argued that when the government injected spending into the economy, it created cycles of spending that increased employment and prosperity regardless of the form of the spending. Here's how the multiplier is supposed to work: a $100 million government infrastructure project might cost $50 million in labor. The workers then take that $50 million and, minus the average saving rate, spend it on various goods and services. Those businesses then use that money to hire more people to make more products, leading to another round of spending. This idea was central to the New Deal and the growth of the Left's redistributionist state. The great free market economist and Nobel Laureate in Economics Milton [...]'  Investopedia 'The Keynesian multiplier was introduced by Richard Kahn in the 1930s. It showed that any government spending brought about cycles of spending that increased employment and prosperity regardless of the form of the spending. For example, a $100 million government project, whether to build a dam or dig and refill a giant hole, might pay $50 million in pure labor costs. The workers then take that $50 million and, minus the average saving rate, spend it at various businesses. These businesses now have more money to hire more people to make more products, leading to another round of spending. This idea was at the core of the New Deal and the growth of the welfare state.'    Crowley's book 'At that point, they became like the woman in a famous story about Winston Churchill. At a dinner party one night, a drunk Churchill asked an attractive lady whether she would sleep with him for a million pounds. "Maybe," she said coyly. Churchill then said, "Would you sleep with me for one pound?" "Of course not!" the woman replied indignantly. "What kind of woman do you think I am?" "Madam, we've already established what kind of woman you are," said Churchill. "Now we're just negotiating the price." '  Blogspot 'There is a great story about Winston Churchill. At a dinner party one night, a drunk Churchill asked an attractive woman whether she would sleep with him for a million pounds. "Maybe," the woman said coyly. "Would you sleep with me for one pound?" Churchill then asked. "Of course not, what kind of woman do you think I am?" the woman responded indignantly. "Madam, we've already established what kind of woman you are," said Churchill, "now we're just negotiating the price." '  Crowley's book 'They claim that the Health and Human Services secretary is authorized to issue temporary waivers to companies or insurers, freeing them from rules mandating minimum standards of health coverage. Other waivers, which Team Obama euphemistically calls 'adjustments,' let states ask the HHS secretary to free up requirements that insurers spend a certain percentage of premiums on medical care. And a third waiver, available in 2017, will allow states to effect their own health reforms, but only if they are consistent with Obama-Care's regulations and objectives. Within moments of the bill's passage, unions and companies began lining up to take advantage of the waiver "outs." '   Politico 'The law authorizes the HHS secretary to issue waivers to companies or insurers freeing them from rules requiring minimum standards of health coverage. Other waivers, which the administration calls "adjustments," allow states to ask the administration to loosen requirements that insurance companies spend a certain percentage of premiums on medical care. A third waiver will be available in 2017 that will allow states to implement their own health reforms, but only if they achieve the same basic goals as the original law — like covering as many people and making the insurance as generous and affordable as it would be under the law.' 
