{ By Erica Tempesta For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:58, 20 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7266591/Bachelorette-contestant-Luke-Parkers-brother-claims-ABC-manipulated-conversations.html }
Rejected Bachelorette contestant Luke Parker has been accused of slut-shaming Hannah Brown for having pre-marital sex, but his brother is firing back, claiming ABC intentionally 'manipulated conversations' the conservative Christian had with the show's star to peg him as a villain.   Mike Parker opened up about his brother's depiction on the reality series during an interview on the Fox Nation show Starnes Country on Thursday, saying Luke, 24, has gotten 'death threats' and was in 'tears' when he met him at the airport after he filmed the Men Tell All.  'On Monday, the Men Tell All is coming out. Luke basically gets ambushed there. They have an agenda. They've had an agenda all season long about a narrative that they want to play about Luke,' he told the show's host Todd Starnes.  Scroll down for video   'They’ve manipulated conversations, they’ve manipulated interactions, they’ve left conversations out to basically climax here at the Men Tell All,' he continued.  'And they’ve ambushed him here to bash his face, to bash his biblical view of a man's place in marriage, to bash him and the way he handled the situation in the sex controversy from last week's episode, to tell him that he's a slut-shamer, a misogynist.'    Luke, an import/export manager, was sent home on the July 15th episode of the Bachelorette after getting into an argument with Hannah, 24, about pre-marital sex and religion. He wanted to make sure she wasn't having sex with the other contestants but said he'd be 'willing' to 'work through' it if she had. However, according to Mike, Hannah and Luke were both 'on the same page' about sex before marriage during an unaired conversation that took place his hometown of Gainesville, Georgia — which is why he was so taken aback during their now-infamous fight. He claimed they were on a date with Luke's college ministry when Hannah stood up to talk about sex and what she thought the fantasy suite was for.    'She kind of told group that, "Hey, look, I'm not going to be using the fantasy suite for sex. I'm actually going to be using them for conversation time away from cameras, so I can further the relationship with those guys,"' he said.     He explained that Luke had watched Hannah compete for Colton Underwood's heart on The Bachelor earlier this year, and her devotion to her Christian faith 'made an impression on him.' Mike's wife, Hannah Parker, ended up sending in an application for the ABC reality series on her brother-in-law's behalf, but now the family is appalled by how Luke is being portrayed.  Since the episode featuring Hannah and Luke's fight aired, he claimed that both his brother and his wife have received threats.   'He’s gotten death threats. He’s been told that is life is worthless and that he should just kill himself,' he said. 'They’re telling him he needs psychological help, he has psychological issues. They are doing their best to label him with psychological problems based on a fictitious character created in a reality TV show.' Mike pointed out that 'a lot of the guys' who were eliminated by Hannah appeared on Good Morning America afterward to discuss their time on the show, but Luke was never given the opportunity.  'When Luke was eliminated from the show, they actually brought a former Bachelor [Nick Viall] and a former Bachelorette [Rachel Lindsay] onto the show to talk about Luke on Luke’s behalf, and talk about what a horrible person he was and that they don’t want a man like him representing their Christianity,' Mike explained.  'I do believe that they have attacked him because he’s made a bold stance for his faith,' he said of ABC. 'He’s been a man of faith on that show, and I believe all season long they’ve pinned those names on him, they’ve pinned those labels, because of his stance for his faith.'  Mike said things only got worse for Luke when came face-to-face with Hannah and the rest of the contestants while taping the Men Tell All episode earlier this month.     He alleged that Hannah called Luke the 'embodiment of toxic masculinity' during the taping, which he insists is not true.  'That’s the Luke P. character that ABC created. That is not Luke Parker, my brother,' he said. 'That’s not the person that he is, and I would tell America that, that this person that they’ve seen labeled as a liar — an evil, pathological liar, narcissistic, all these keywords they’ve been pushing all season — are a fictitious character created by ABC.'  Mike said it was difficult to see his brother so upset when he returned home.   'I was in the airport to meet my brother after the filming of the Men Tell All, and he was in tears,' he said. 'That was the first time that I’ve seen him . . . hurt on this show, I mean, throughout this whole process. And it was tough for me. It was tough for me to see him like that.'  Mike claimed Luke was crying because 'he was concerned for everyone' involved in the show, including Hannah, his fellow suitors, the show's host Chris Harrison, and even the audience members.  'His heart just went out to them in that moment, and the way that they treated him, the way that they ambushed him,' he said. 'That was tough for him. He’s bouncing back, but that was a tough moment to see my brother in.' Hannah said goodbye to Luke on Monday night's episode after a date that ended in a heated conversation about sex. He preached about sex being for a husband and a wife, saying that he has abstained for the past 'three-and-a-half to four years' and is now saving himself for marriage. Luke noted that Hannah has talked about being a Christian, but he wanted to make sure she was living in a way that aligned with that, as far he was concerned. During Fantasy Suites week, he wanted to make sure that she was not having sex with the other men on the show — implying that if she were, she'd be a hypocrite. 'Like, if you told me you were having sex or had sex with one or multiple of these guys, I'd be wanting to go home 100 per cent,' he said. Hannah listened to him speak, looking a bit stunned before responding, appearing to choose her words carefully.  'Um . . . like, sex is a very big deal to me,' she told him. 'And I've said I've had sex with two people in my life, and it was long relationships I thought were gonna be my husband. But some of the things that you said, I don't agree with at all. 'And honestly, I'm kind of mad because the way that you just said that —why do you have the right to do that? Because you're not my husband. 'It's just that you're questioning me, and you're judging me, and you feel like you have the right to, and you don't at this point.' He quickly backtracked, telling her that he loves her before proposing, hypothetically, the 'crazy' scenario in which she had had sex with the other guys on the show. In that case, he said, he'd be 'willing' to work through it. 'The words you just used are that you're "willing" to work through this,' she answered. 'I'm a grown woman and can make my own decisions, and I'm not strapped to a man right now.' 'I can understand a slip-up,' he told her, but he said he wasn't OK with her having sex with 'all' the men there. 'The words that you're saying are just, like, really not OK,' she told him. 'The closest thing that I've ever felt to love at first sight was probably with you. And our relationship from the beginning gave me so much hope and then it was like all this s*** kept happening. 'And honestly, like, you have already broken my heart through this.' She went on to chastise him for judging her, telling him: 'You're holding other people to a standard that you don't even live by.' Hannah told him he was too fixated on sex and purity when he didn't exactly meet all of her standards, either. Luke then told her that he found out that she did 'slip up' and have sex with one of the other men. 'I don't slip up,' she told him. 'Do you see this? You say that you're so thankful to be here and so thankful, but you need to know if I have had sex with another person for you to make the decision of how you're going to move forward with me. 'You know the story in the bible when the woman was caught in adultery and she's thrown into the village, and Jesus was there, and he was like, "You without sin throws the first stone"? What you just did is you're holding your stone up at me and asking and trying to see what I've done. 'And I know that I have God in my heart. So I know that everything I do and who I am is light. I am light. Do I make mistakes? I'm not Jesus. 'You have not shown respect for any of the guys here, and I'm finally seeing that. And you haven't shown me respect here, especially not now. And honestly, you haven't been showing yourself respect here. 'You keep saying you should do this, you should do that, we should do this. It's not a should, It's a want. It's a desire. And it's not something that you tell me I can do, it's that I wanna do. 'And I know that I have given this my all. I have cried, I have struggled, I have screamed, I have made decisions that have kept me up at night. 'There have been so many times that I have wanted to say I'm done with you, but my heart has just not allowed me to let you go. And I prayed so much for clarity. And I feel like I've finally gotten clarity on you. And I do not want you to be my husband.' With that, she attempted to walk him out. He continued to try to engage in conversation with her, but Hannah was not having it, walking him to the car to leave. At the car, she finally admits to him with a sassy smile: 'I have had sex. And Jesus still loves me. 'For obviously how you feel, me f***ing in a windmill — you probably want to leave,' she tells him. 'I didn't just go to the Fantasy Suite. I f****d in a windmill,' she says in a confessional. 'And guess what? We did it a second time.' 
