christianity
{ By Jack Newman For Mailonline   Published:  16:24, 13 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7244001/Couple-charge-100-hour-grown-sex-lessons-allow-people-unlock-hidden-fantasies.html }
A couple who give 'erotic and Tantric' massages and encourage people to act out their fantasies charge sexually unsatisfied customers up to £100 an hour.  Former quantity surveyor Natalia Virdee, 41, and maths graduate Joshua Sleith, 27, call themselves 'sex workers' but not in the conventional sense. The pair teach adults what they call 'real sex education' inspired by Eastern spiritual practices from a garden studio in their home in Torquay. Mr Sleith also carries out a service where he acts as a surrogate to help men who may be hiding their sexuality.  Ms Virdee said: 'There's still a lot of stigma and shame about our bodies and pleasure, sensuality and touch. We are working to change it.'    The couple, who are also yoga teachers, want to see more openness about sex and talk frankly about what they do.   Tantra is an ancient practice thought to have been in existence for over 5,000 years. It means 'the weaving and expansion of energy', and the teachings of Tantra were initially not focused on sexuality but were more about mastering and understanding our own energy. Mr Sleith, originally from Anglesey, abandoned his job in insurance before running yoga courses and becoming a sex worker. He said: 'I decided I didn't like the idea of working behind a desk for the rest of my life so I quit.' After going to a 'kinky workshop,' and learning more about massage, he's been in the sex business for over two years.  Asked about Tantra, he said: 'I think that each and every practitioner, it means something different, because it's based on their own experience and their education. 'To me, when I'm offering someone a Tantric massage, that is exploring what their body is capable of in terms of sensations and pleasure, focusing on "how can my body perceive pleasure, and how can I enjoy it?" 'Sometimes people take a spiritual angle within that, and I'll happily facilitate it within a session, but sometimes that's not the case, and I'm happy with that as well. 'Pleasure can be sexual or it can be platonic.' Ms Virdee adds, 'You can contrast that with Christianity, for example, where you see the body as sinful, you punish the body, you achieve enlightenment through spiritual work or prayer, but you leave the body behind all together... it's not like that at all in Tantric texts. 'Essentially, as you awaken the body's energies, you can achieve enlightenment, and when the practitioner is skilled in energy work, they can help the client open new doors.' Over 90 per cent of Mr Sleith's clients are men, with a typical age range between mid-30s to people in their 70s. He charges £100 an hour but sets boundaries for himself.  He said: 'I'm not naked, I don't use my body apart from my hands and perhaps my elbows sometimes. 'One of the best tools I introduce to people is communication, just expressing how you are or what you want in the moment, and that blows people's minds, being radically honest.' The vast majority of his massage clients come to him for some sort of sexual pleasure. He said: 'I think that depends on your definition of sexual element. 'There was a client who liked to have his arms above his head, then I would sit on his arms and tickle him for an hour, that was the whole session. 'To me, that wasn't sexual at all. I don't get sexual pleasure from my clients anyway, but to him, that was very sexual.' Her added: 'Normally it starts with some light touch, nothing in particular, just hands running around everywhere and then the client sinking into that touch, from there it goes to whatever is agreed. 'It could be a session purely on spanking, it could be a session on wax play or ice. Wax play is when you drip wax on different parts of the body.' His 'surrogacy' service is different. He explained: 'It's like a temporary partner, like an escort but without sex. 'We might have meal together, we might watch some TV, have a general catch-up about his or their lives. 'Without a doubt, yes, that's the main reason, because they don't have someone in their lives they have that connection with, that intimacy with. 'And because I can talk about things quite openly, so can they, quite quickly.' He often deals with men who come to him because they don't feel they can express their sexuality. He said: 'I've had people who can only express their genuine sexuality in the space I offer. 'Their best friends don't know, their wives, their kids. 'That tells me somebody is not living as their authentic self, and I think society needs to change.' The couple describe themselves as sex workers but Ms Virdee said it is not the same as prostitution.  She said: 'A prostitute is someone who offers penetrative sex. 'Even when I offered touch and sexual touch, I was never naked in the session and the touch was one-way only, from me to the client, and never from the client to me.' Joshua is no longer in contact with his family, and thinks his parents would disapprove of what he does. But he says most people are interested in what they do and he hasn't had any negative reactions. But he has experienced awkward moments with acquaintances. He said: 'When I say I'm a sex worker, and there's just silence, nothing comes back and then maybe suddenly they'll change the conversation to something else. 'Generally that person doesn't stay in my friendship circle.' The couple believe everyone needs to learn more about sex. Ms Virdee said: 'People need this information, because at the moment, because nobody talks about it, people learn about sex from porn and I think that does incredible amounts of damage to young people and old people. Mr Sleith added: 'You have sex education in school, which is, "Don't rape, use a condom, and this is what pregnancy is". 'What we do, is real sex education. I do it practically, and Natalia does it verbally. 'It's like grown-up sex education, without shame, without embarrassment, just complete honesty and openness.' 
