{ By Dailymail.com Reporter   Published:  23:57, 10 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7234545/Wedding-dress-designer-refused-make-outfit-lesbian-couple.html }
A lesbian couple from Missouri say a New York-based designer refused to make them a wedding garment because their same-sex relationship violated her religious beliefs.  St. Louis-based Tiffany Allen and Angel Lane recently contacted Dominique Galbraith of D. Auxilly designs to inquire about a $1500 jumpsuit, before they were left stunned by the designer's e-mail reply. In her response, Galbraith wrote: 'Thank you for reaching out... However, I wouldn't be able to make a piece for a same-sex wedding. It goes against my faith in Christ. I believe Jesus died for our sins so that we would live for him according to His Holy Word.' Video courtesy KTVI  She continued: 'I know you both love each other and that this feels right but I encourage you both to reconsider and see what the Lord has to say and the wonderful things He has in store for you both if you trust and obey Him.'  While Galbraith may not have been interested in creating a wedding garment for Allen and Lane, she certainly expressed enthusiasm for chatting further about her religious beliefs.  Seemingly willing to convert them to Christianity, she wrote: 'I'm available to talk and share more about Jesus if you'd like. Feel free to call me.' Allen and Lane - who have been dating for seven years - say they felt 'hurt' by the e-mail.     In an interview with Metro on Wednesday, Allen stated: 'A person who truly has that heart will tell you that God doesn't make any mistakes. I'm not a mistake. My fiancee is not a mistake.' The pair plan to go ahead with their wedding, which will be held in Las Vegas in October.   Allen and Lane live in Missouri where it is legal for businesses to discriminate against clients based on their sexuality.  However, as Galbraith resides in New York, she may be breaking the law, given that the state legally bars anti-gay discrimination.  Allen and Lane say they are now filing a formal complaint against D. Auxilly. They are also considering taking a lawsuit against the company.  DailyMail.com has contacted D. Auxilly for comment.  Meanwhile, Galbraith's Facebook profile features photos of Bible verses and Christian-themed messages, including one that reads: 'You want God to fix the problem when God wants to fix you, and He's using the problem to do so'.   
