{ By Charlie Moore For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:00, 9 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7227037/Calm-suck-Christian-leader-blasts-believers-crying-persecution.html }
Australian Christians should stop claiming they are being persecuted and toughen up, a Baptist minister has said. Tim Costello, brother of former treasurer Peter and senior fellow at the Centre for Public Christianity, said believers need to 'calm down' amid outrage over the dismissal of Israel Folau from the Wallabies. Many Christians, including the Australian Christian Lobby, claim Folau's sacking for sharing an anti-gay religious Instagram message trampled on religious freedom. But Mr Costello spoke out on Monday to tell Christians there is no danger of persecution in Australia.  According to The Guardian, he said: 'I don't think there is a risk of persecution – Christians need to calm down. 'I would say to Christians if you want to see persecution, let me take you to places where there is persecution of Christians and other religious groups – let me take you to Afghanistan, Syria, Pakistan, and I will show you persecution. Costello used a Bible quotation to support his argument that Christians should be brave in the face of criticism.   'And if they read their Bibles, Jesus said the world will hate you and misunderstand you for following me, but to go on following, loving, serving – so I would say, just suck it up,' he said. Talking about the government's proposal for new laws to prevent religious discrimination, he said: 'Jesus didn't go around demanding legislation to protect his rights. Jesus didn't advocate for freedom of religion legislation'.  However, Mr Costello suggested it was not just Christians who are being soft. He said religious people should have the right to share their beliefs even if others find it offensive. He said people on both sides of the debate need to be less fragile and toughen up. 'The mark of our age is anxiety, people are feeling the fragility of life,' he said. Folau's sacking in May parked a national debate about religious freedom and freedom of speech.  The former Wallabies player had his $4million contract torn up in April after uploading an Instagram post saying 'drunks, homosexuals, fornicators, adulterers, liars, fornicators, thieves, atheists and idolaters' needed to repent for their sins or they would go to hell.  Folau responded by launching a multi-million-dollar legal battle against Rugby Australia claiming unlawful termination.   
