christianity
{ By Kylie Stevens For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  03:14, 8 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7222803/One-Nation-Senator-Pauline-Hanson-slams-calls-scrap-religious-education-schools.html }
Pauline Hanson has slammed calls to axe religious education classes from the curriculum in New South Wales high schools.    The One Nation leader weighed into the controversial debate following reports that as few as five per cent of students at some Sydney high schools attend scripture lessons.  Ms Hanson has slammed growing calls led by the Secondary Principals Council and denied suggestions the subject has become irrelevant in schools. She believes there's no harm in students spending a lesson each week learning about Christian morals and values, just like she did. 'It tells you and teaches you to have a healthy respect for other people and their faith and to actually have some understanding of it,' Senator Hanson told Channel Nine's Today Show on Monday. 'It is up to the individual then whether they want to continue with that later in life, if they want to continue with religious studies or whether they want to go to church or what they want to do with it.'  'I just believe that, you know, we are a Christian country and I think it's nice to have that grounding, morals and values with Christianity and I have no problem with it.' Senator Hanson stressed the importance of people learning Judeo-Christian values before deciding where to go with those values. 'We've got a rise in Islam in this country. I don't always agree with what their principles are, everyone has a right to learn their own faith, whether it be Buddhism, Judaism, Islam, whatever,' Senator Hanson said.  'Let's just give people the chance, the opportunity to learn whatever they want to or try to have a healthy respect for other people who may believe in those faiths as long as it's not upsetting other people or causing harm to our people.' The senator's comments sparked a divisive reaction online from viewers. 'Pauline Hanson talking about education..what a joke,' one person tweeted. Another added:  All forms of religion are complete fabricated nonsense and should be left out of our school systems.' But many others agreed with Senator Hanson.   'The fundamentals of all faiths ... showing their similar beliefs would be a great way to keep religious studies in schools. And, as Pauline states, it is only 30mins/week,' one woman posted on Facebook. There are also growing calls to scrap scripture classes in Queensland after figures revealed that only one in four parents wanted their children going.   NSW Education Minister Sarah Mitchell reaffirmed the government's commitment to the existing system and that it was up to parents as to whether to enrol their child. 'Last year, the NSW Government changed the enrolment procedure for SRE, making it clearer to parents and carers what SRE and SEE (Special Education in Ethics) options are available at their child's school,' she told the Sydney Morning Herald.  'All SRE and SEE options are opt-in. Religious education classes have been offered in public schools since 1848. Every NSW Government has supported this approach since then.' 
