{ By Annita Katee For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:50, 3 July 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7210423/Kaitlyn-Bristowe-defends-Hannah-Brown-admits-f-ed-contestant-windmill-TWICE.html }
Bachelorette Hannah Brown confessed in Monday night's promo that she had had sex with a contestant in a windmill, twice.  And after many trolls criticized her choices, former Bachelorette Kaitlyn Bristowe, 34, came to her defense on Tuesday in a series of Tweets.  Pointing out that it was the 24-year-old Alabama native's choice to have sex she encouraged fans to leave her be.  'Women can have sex if they choose, and women can wait till marriage if they choose. Point is, ITS THEIR CHOICE,' she tweeted.  'When you’re making a life altering decision to find a life partner, intimacy can be important. Why is that so hard to understand?' she posed.   And Kaitlyn didn't stop there, replying to a follower who asked if they should still be supporting Hannah when they were already aware it was going to be a regretful decision.  'Of course we should. Have you ever done something you regret, and needed support?' Kaitlyn wrote.  'Or would you be fine with everyone coming after you, when you’re probably already being hard on yourself. Sometimes regrets are life lessons, which result in self compassion and growth.'  The conversation continued on Wednesday morning when the Off The Vine podcast host spoke about the topic of religion.   While Hannah Brown spoke about being a Christian in the promo, some weren't so happy that her sentence continued with her bragging about the sex she had had with a fellow contestant. User @TheJoyWriterx2 wrote: 'The difference @kaitlynBristowe, is that Bachelorette @alabamahannah claims to be a #Christian while gleefully, with no morals telling the world she's having sex and will continue because she knows what's best. Not true #Christianity.'  Kaitlyn once again defended the Miss Alabama pageant queen by Tweeting that Christianity was simply about ones private relationship with God.   'Its my understanding that being a Christian is also being kind. The word Christian was given to followers of Jesus,' she wrote.  'Being a Christian is not about keeping rules/regulations, performing rituals, or even going to church. It’s about YOUR relationship with god. To each their own.'  The social media drama comes after Hannah confessed she had had intercourse with a contestant while sending Luke Parker packing for judging her sexuality in a new promo.  'So, let's talk about sex, and let's say you have sex with one or multiple of these guys. I'd completely remove myself from this relationship,' Luke told her on their one-on-one date. And Hannah was less than impressed with his statement, walking him straight out to an awaiting SUV. 'My husband would never say what you've said to me,' she told him.  She added: 'I have had sex. And honestly, Jesus still loves me. From obviously how you feel, me f***ing in a windmill, you probably want to leave.'  While Luke walked off completely stunned and in shock, it cut to Hannah's confessional, where she clarified the relations happened not once, but twice.  'I f***ed in a windmill. And guess what? We did it a second time!' And while many fans took to social media to praise the model for taking a stance, others made it their mission to find out who she had slept with.  'This is me rewinding #TheBacheorette to find the windmill. IT WAS JED,' Tweeted out one eagle-eyed invested researcher.  The photo saw Hannah and Jed on a romantic date at a windmill.  And Reality Steve appeared to bring truth to the matter, retweeting the post and adding: 'Here you go for everyone asking.'  Bachelorette host, Chris Harrison, also weighed in, Tweeting on Tuesday morning: 'Spoiler alert @AlabamaHannah loves windmills... multiple times.' The news comes as it was revealed last week that suitor Jed Wyatt had a girlfriend when he started filming the show, before completely ghosting her when he returned home.  Speaking with People, Hayley Stevens said they were in a relationship and had professed their love to each other months earlier.  The country singer said that Jed told her the show was 'just an obstacle' in their four-month relationship and he was only going on it as a platform for his music career.  'We spent the night together the night before he headed to LA,' she said.   'He told me [the show] was just an obstacle and we'd be stronger on the other side because of it.' Hayley, of the girlband, Sweet Leah, did confirm that she was aware he had apply and in the slight chance he made it he said: 'It's a huge opportunity. I'm only doing this for my music.'  'He wanted a platform. He kept telling me, "I don't want my dad to have to help me pay rent anymore".' Hayley added that his goal was to be in the top five remaining love seekers, as to him, that would make him 'a major player' and the journey 'beneficial'. She added that when he left he told her: 'I love you, and I'll call you when I get back', leading to the beauty checking all spoiler sites to try and determine when exactly that would be. Last week, Hayley also posted a love letter he had written her before leaving.  'Haley, you're truly an amazing person,' the note began.  'Someday we will be thankful for all of this. You know where my heart will be. See you at the dock, J.'  
