{ By Chloe-lee Longhetti For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  03:54, 27 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7186183/Inside-Waleed-Alys-life-away-Project.html }
He is one of Australia's most popular, and divisive, television personalities.  But Waleed Aly is more than just a host on Channel 10's The Project, as he has several other jobs that aren't as widely publicised. From his work as a university lecturer to writing articles for The New York Times, there's no doubt he is a man of many talents.    Waleed, 40, is married to television presenter and fellow academic Susan Carland, who he first met aged 16.  Susan, 39, converted from Christianity to Sunni Islam in her late teens and has even authored a PhD paper on Muslim feminism. She previously revealed that she didn't expect to marry Waleed when they first met.  'He just really annoyed me,' Susan told The Sydney Morning Herald in 2016.  'I think maybe it was that I'd become Muslim so I was dealing with all those changes in my life, telling my family and friends, and I needed everyone to give me some space.' But despite her early reluctance to settle down, the pair soon began dating and now have a rock-solid marriage.  When Waleed was honoured at the 2016 Logie Awards, he paid a touching tribute to his wife in his acceptance speech.  'She's a huge source of support for me but she's so much more than that. [She's] a challenge, a provocation and an inspiration,' he said. 'It's a privilege to be able to share my life with you, so thank you very much.'  The couple share two children: 15-year-old daughter Aisha and 11-year-old son Zayd.  Last month, Waleed spoke about Zayd's autism diagnosis on The Project, saying that it was actually a 'relief' when he and Susan found out.  'I didn't worry, it didn't hit me in the face - it actually explained a lot of things [about Zayd's behaviour] and it opened up doors,' he said.  Waleed did acknowledge that he is slightly concerned about his son's future and potential, saying: 'The thing that is really scary about it is you actually don't know what their ceiling is.'  He explained: 'All the things that you would normally take for granted - like when they have a career, when they get married or whatever - you're just facing an unknown. You don't know if those things will ever be possible.' In addition to hosting The Project on Channel 10, Waleed lectures at Monash University in Melbourne. The former lawyer specialises in politics and international relations and even wrote a book in 2007 called People Like Us: How Arrogance Is dividing Islam and the West.  Waleed has also written articles for various newspapers, including The Australian, The Australian Financial Review and The New York Times.  Earlier this month, Waleed told TV Week magazine that he can't believe he has been nominated a third time for the Gold Logie.  'It's a touching and surprising compliment,' he said. 'I've always held the view that I'm not designed to be a Logie winner, that Logies go to certain kinds of people and I'm not one of them. So it's a genuine surprise each time.' Waleed won his first Gold Logie in 2016 and was nominated for a second time in 2017, but lost out to actor Samuel Johnson. His is one of seven television personalities nominated this year, with the ceremony taking place on Sunday at The Star Gold Coast.  
