christianity
{ By Charlie Moore For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:00, 25 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7177407/Australian-Christian-Lobby-using-Israel-Folau-pawn-say-critics.html }
The Australian Christian Lobby is using Israel Folau as a pawn to further its right-wing conservative agenda, critics said on Tuesday. The influential religious group jumped to the sacked Wallaby's aid when his GoFundMe account was taken down on Monday. It hosted a new campaign to raise money for his legal battle against Rugby Australia - and received more than $700,000 by Tuesday lunchtime.  The group said it was helping Folau 'because it's right' - but critics said there were darker reasons at play. Newcastle priest Rod Bower said the lobby was merely using Folau as part of wider political game. 'They have been backing Folau all the way along,' he told Daily Mail Australia on Tuesday. 'He's a pawn in their game - he acted and they jumped on it to use him to further their own conservative agenda'. He said the lobby, still bitter about the yes result of the gay marriage referendum, was fighting against the rights of gay people to be protected from discrimination. 'They are trying to force the government's hand to change the law and effectively legalise homophobia. If they are successful, vulnerable people will pay,' he said.   Mr Bower said Folau's backers are using the principles of free speech and freedom of religion as a 'cloak' to hide their true motives.  'They are concocting the illusion that religious freedoms are threatened,' he said. 'In fact, no-body is saying that Folau is not free to express his beliefs. He is. But he is not free to think his words have no consequence. 'Free speech is never free. Someone often pays such as vulnerable gay people.  'In this case, if Folau's free speech breached the contract he freely signed then his sacking is justified'.   Mr Bower said that religious people should think carefully about signing employment contracts if their beliefs will hamper their ability to do the job.  'For example, I have religiously motivated views on climate change and therefore I won't work for coal-mining company Adani,' he said. 'Folau has to have some religious integrity too and if that means he can't stick to an employer's rules then he should chose not work for that employer. He can't have his cake and eat it too.'  Rabbi Jonathan Keren-Black also said he was disappointed in the ACL's decision to throw $100,000 behind Folau's legal case against Rugby Australia. 'All faiths have a variety of different approaches - I know many loving, caring Christians who would be horrified that that was being done in the name of Christianity,' he told reporters in Sydney. It's important to be aware of the pressures that youth - including those with gender identity issues - are facing, the rabbi said. As young people grow up they need to be nurtured, supported and recognised for who they are, he said. 'Anybody in the public eye who speaks out against that is causing extremely dangerous upset and hurt,' he said. However, more traditionally conservative clergymen rushed to the support of the ACL.  Archbishop of Sydney Glenn Davies says Folau's right to express his faith and act according to his conscience is of 'fundamental importance in any democracy'. 'The way in which Folau's motives have been impugned and his avenues of support have been cut off smacks of a new and ugly Australia where dissent from narrow cultural views is not tolerated,' he said. Folau claimed on Friday that his offending Instagram post calling for gay people to repent 'came from a place of love'. Archbishop Davies echoed those words, saying Folau's original post came from a place of 'deep conscience and concern' and not malice. 'It had nothing to do with rugby and it should have been his right as a citizen to speak of what he believes without threat to his employment.' The clear support of ordinary Christians has been 'ignored, marginalised and silenced', the archbishop said. 'Loud, intolerant voices swamp the quiet faith of many.' The archbishop said he prays the situation may shine a light on freedom of speech, freedom of worship and freedom to live according to faith.        Folau is seeking $10million in damages after he was sacked by Rugby Australia in May for breaching his contract by sharing a homophobic meme on Instagram. The 30-year-old claimed he was spreading the word of God because he is a devout Christian who closely follows the Bible.  But Rugby Australia said he breached his contracted which stated he must treat all people 'equally and fairly'.  Daily Mail Australia has contacted the ACL for comment.  
