{ By Rebecca English Royal Correspondent For The Daily Mail   Published:  00:50, 24 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7173215/The-women-using-deep-religious-faith-unite-fractured-communities.html }
At a time of religious tension, they are using their faith to unite their communities. And tomorrow the work of women from a wide range of faith groups will be celebrated at a reception held by the Queen at Buckingham Palace. As a woman of deep personal faith, the Queen knows how powerful religion can be as a means of bringing people together when it is used for the common good. Which is why, say aides, she was keen to hold a ‘faith reception’. The Queen, who is head of the Church of England and holds the title Defender of the Faith, has invited both men and women representing religions including Christianity, Judaism, Islam and Baha’i. Also there will be volunteers and community workers of no particular faith who embrace religion to promote social cohesion and positive change within their neighbourhoods. The work of the 160 men and women who will attend the reception includes supporting young people to make positive life choices, bringing people together through cooking, providing food and clothing to the homeless, and supporting refugees and asylum seekers. A Buckingham Palace spokesman said: ‘As head of the nation and head of the Commonwealth, Her Majesty recognises and celebrates religious diversity in the UK and throughout the Commonwealth. ‘Across the UK, individuals of all faiths and beliefs are working at grassroots and community level to support their local neighbourhoods and bring together different backgrounds and ethnicities.’     Here we highlight four of the women who will be introduced to the Queen. Emma Holton worships at St Paul’s Church in the religiously-diverse centre of Walsall. And it was her decision to hold a Remembrance Sunday event celebrating this diversity that led to her being invited to meet the Queen at Buckingham Palace. The Church of England volunteer, pictured, said: ‘I have been involved with the church for around four years. We are open seven days a week and there is a huge variety of people coming in each day to use our coffee shop and other facilities. ‘In fact, it’s that diversity that drew me to it. We have people of Muslim, Sikh and Hindu religions visiting on a daily basis. It is a broad mix and has been such a positive experience.’  With the help of the vicar, Miss Holton, 38, decided to hold a remembrance event last year that incorporated all those faith and creeds. ‘I wanted our commemorations to reflect the community that we live in,’ she said.  ‘There was an exhibition using photographs that family members had brought in of their loved ones who had served in the First World War, and we brought in a historian who specialised in the Muslim contribution. We also had a Caribbean speaker too to raise awareness of their contribution to the war effort.’ The event was a huge success and there are plans for more. ‘I can now call the local mosque, gurdwara… anywhere for help,’ she said. ‘We are planning community curry next.’ Anna Dyson decided to use the Jewish ‘kiddush’ as the inspiration for her community cafe in the diverse Harehills area of Leeds. ‘ToastLoveCoffee is very much driven by my Jewish values… my passion for social justice, community, food – particularly bonding over food, that’s very Jewish,’ she said. ‘It’s like you are hosting a kiddush, a meal that we have at the end of the service on Saturday mornings. We break bread together, say blessings and chat together over some dishes. ‘That’s my original inspiration, using food as an icebreaker for people to chat and to get to know each other, but it’s turned into a cafe and grown from there.’ Mrs Dyson, 40, pictured, a mother of three, said: ‘Harehills is a super-diverse area where people arriving in the city live.  There’s not just a Jewish community, there are people from Pakistan, Bangladesh and asylum seekers from all over the world… Syria, Iran, Iraq, Eritrea, Sudan, Ethiopia… economic migrants from various parts of Europe and beyond, and, of course, white British.’ ToastLoveCoffee offers more than just hot drinks and food: its volunteers run English courses, a legal advice clinic, ‘knit and natter’ sessions, walking groups – anything and everything the community needs. Nighat Khan had a successful career in the City, but she felt that something was missing from her life. ‘I realised that when I worked nine to five I wasn’t in touch with the community around me,’ she said. After leaving her job as a wealth management analyst in private banking, mother-of-two Mrs Khan, pictured, from Clapham, south-west London, set up New Vision 4 Women, a company trying to improve women’s lives by offering a wide range of workshops and training courses. Mrs Khan said her project has succeeded in breaking down the kinds of barriers that those living in a big city often experience.  Former backing singer Rachael Cox is using her experience to bring her community together through the arts. Birmingham-born Mrs Cox, 55, pictured, is programme manager at Celebrating Sanctuary Birmingham, a charity which promotes and empowers artists in exile in all forms and from all faiths, from music to writing and the visual arts.  Its aim is to encourage artists, celebrate refugee talent and build connections in the community. Mrs Cox, who performed with 90s funk fusion band Mau Mau, said: ‘We work predominately with refugee and migrant artists. They can be very isolated because of language and culture.’ The event is being run with the help of Near Neighbours run by the Church Urban Fund, a government-funded programme working in some of the most diverse and disadvantaged areas in England to bring together local people from different faiths and ethnic backgrounds to improve communities. Near Neighbours provides small grants to support local, grassroots projects and has funded 1,433 projects across England, all of which have at least two faith or belief groups working together. The programme also has a network of national partners to provide training, expertise and resources and has hubs and coordinators across England. 
