christianity
{ By Kylie Stevens and Eliza Mcphee For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  07:04, 15 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7144063/Survivors-depraved-cult-Family-rejoice-leader-dies.html }
Survivors of the notorious cult 'The Family' can rest easy a day after their evil leader died, bringing closure from a life of torture and abuse. Anne Hamilton-Byrne, the once glamorous and charismatic cult founder, died in palliative care on Thursday night aged 98 after a 12-year battle with dementia.  Adam Lancaster, now 48, who grew up in the cult and spent 22 years living on the family's property, remembers his abuser and tormentor as 'auntie'. Two days after her death, Mr Lancaster told Daily Mail Australia he feels 'numb' after the news. Scroll down for video  '(It's) something that I've been wishing in many ways that she goes. It's time. It's cruel that she's being staying around for so long,' he said.  'While she was on the planet, we were never going to get any closure. 'I'm excited for what's going to be in our future now. There is a bit of grief. It still hasn't hit me. It's brought a lot of emotions up.'   Mr Lanaster was 'adopted' by Hamilton-Byrne at just a few days old, and grew up in the sect believing another member, Elizabeth Whitaker was his mother.  The cult in central Victoria included the illegal adoption and drugging of many children from the early 1970s until 1987, when two children managed to escape and alert police. It was then Mr Lanaster learned his 'adoption' was a sham. Identically dressed with bleached blonde hair shaped into the same bob, the children were bashed, starved and injected with LSD by Hamilton-Byrne and other cult leaders in terrifying sect initiation rituals. Mr Lancaster was offered to be a ward of the state at age 17 but decided to stay with Ms Hamilton-Byrne. After leaving the cult in his early twenties Mr Lancaster experienced a life of turmoil from the devastating impacts 'The Family' had, living homeless and turning to drugs. 'I ended up getting on the drugs as basically a timeout from the thoughts in my head,' Mr Lancaster said as he battled twenty years using drugs. He describes the impacts from drugs such as methamphetamines and LSD being forced into his system from Ms Hamilton-Byrne. Mr Lancaster said he still uses marijuana but steers clear of other drugs and alcohol.  'I think I had a strong constitution from drugs as a toddler, they were pumping drugs into us,' he said.   Mr Lancaster saw his former tormentor in her nursing home. She couldn't remember who he was. He said it was unfair she wouldn't remember the pain she inflicted. 'Auntie Anne didn't know who we were. It's very unfair, she got away with it in her own mind,' he said.  In total, 28 children spent time at the Eildon property, 14 of which Hamilton-Byrne and her husband Bill were thought to be biological parents.  Hamilton-Byrne convinced herself and up to 500 followers she was the reincarnation of Jesus Christ.  Under the influence of LSD, she believed an apocalyptic war was imminent and that she had a duty to collect children from birth in preparation for a new world. She gathered young boys and girls and raised them as her own on a property in Lake Eildon in central Victoria in the 1970s and 1980s. Some children were obtained through questionable adoptions, others were born to cult members and some were even handed over by compliant sect parents. Mr Lancaster said the once beautiful Ms Hamilton-Byrne was hit with karma as she spent her final 12 years living with the illness. 'Karma had already started with her. She would never have wanted to be in the state she was in in that nursing home. She's been reaping karma for the last 12 years.' Mr Lancaster doesn't know if he believes in the after life but says she will pay the price. 'I don't think she will be going to the almighty. There is love but I know she did so much wrong,' he said.  In 1987, authorities dramatically rescued six traumatised children from the sect property after two managed to escape and alert police. Because of legal complexities, Hamilton-Byrne and her husband were only ever convicted of fraud offences in relation with forged birth certificates. They avoided jail and were fined $5,000 each. Mr Lancaster still struggles after living a life of torture and hardship, suffering from mental health issues and living on a disability pension. He says he feels closer to having a sense of peace after his 'Auntie Annie' died.  Lex De Man, the retired Victorian detective who led investigations into the cult group described Hamilton-Byrne as 'the most evil person I ever came across,' despite her never being charged with child abuse. 'You wouldn't normally say that about a 98-year-old woman … From my perspective upon hearing the news of her death, no-one is sad,' Mr De Man said. 'Those who survived, some justice has been served. Today is not a sad day but a day to celebrate … may she rot.' He hopes her death will mark a fresh start for survivors and said his one regret was that she never faced justice for the serious crimes. 'She left a trail of broken lives, ruined people and the one good thing I've seen is that the former children who were victims of some horrible things have moved on with their lives and they're good people,' Mr De Man told AAP 'I think of them today and what they went through.' Survivor Ben Shenton, who was just 18-months-old when he went to the cult, was relieved to hear about Hamilton-Byrne's death. 'I feel for the many families and people who suffered at her hands over the years and I'm just glad that a chapter's closed,' Mr Shenton told The Australian. He was horrified to discover devotees were visiting her when he visited Hamilton-Byrne in her nursing home in 2012. 'To see that perpetrated and to see the damage that it caused in people's lives is more of an issue to me. Her death closes a chapter on that,' Mr Shenton said.   Victims have attempted to pursue Hamilton-Byrne through the Supreme Court in recent years to get justice for the abuse of more than 20 children. Despite police raids on the Lake Eildon property and a massive investigation, the only penalties ever imposed on Hamilton-Byrne and her husband and sect co-founder Bill Hamilton-Byrne were $5000 fines for falsifying a statutory declaration. In a chilling interview featured in the 2017 documentary The Family, she describes her twisted affection for 'her children.' 'I wanted them to look like brothers and sisters - I must admit this,' Hamilton-Byrne said. 'I loved them in their little smocks and jeans and the long hair and ribbons. It was beautiful - it was lovely to see.'   Asked why she imprisoned 28 children over two decades, she responded: 'I love children.'   The Family documentary director Rosie Jones said Hamilton-Byrne lured many of her victims in with her charm and good looks. 'She was basically Jesus Christ reincarnated in the view of her followers, and I think in her own view,' Ms Jones told ABC Radio Melbourne.  'She was charismatic and gorgeous and she knew how to reach people's weak spots.' Born as Evelyn Edwards in Sale in rural Victoria in 1921, Hamilton-Byrne barely knew her father and her mother was mentally ill. She was a yoga teacher when she met highly-respected English physicist Dr Raynor Johnson in 1963. Together they founded the sect and began to 'adopt' and acquire children to create a 'master race' while teaching a mixture of Christianity and Hinduism.  Holding back tears, Ben Shenton relived the moment he witnessed Hamilton-Byrne's 'favourite daughter' being beaten to a pulp. 'Sarah was thrashed,' he says, holding back tears. 'I was watching her being belted with a buckle and she's being beaten to the point where she's wriggling out of her clothes. 'Hearing her body smash across the balustrades - it was horrendous to know they had the power to do that and would it.' It wasn't until Victorian Detective Lex De Man learned that children as young as 13 had been injected with LSD that a task force to investigate the sect was established. In 2009, Hamilton-Byrne told the Sunday Herald Sun she was ready to die after reconciling with Sarah, the 'daughter' who had exposed the cult to the world. But she denied mistreating the children, saying, 'They were normal children and they could be disobedient to a point, but not all the time.' Source: thefamilysect.com 
