christianity
{ By Brittany Chain For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  01:32, 13 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7135249/Dozens-scantily-clad-students-dress-naughty-nuns.html }
Students at some of Sydney's most prestigious universities are protesting anti-abortion laws by dressing up as 'naughty nuns' and posing in front of churches.  Members of The Women's Collective chapters at the University of New South Wales, University of Sydney and Macquarie University joined hundreds of women at the 'our bodies our choice' rally in Sydney on Saturday. 'We were so proud to be a part of this team! Christ compelled us,' members of the UNSW faction said. In pictures shared after the event, the women were seen posing in nuns' habits paired with casual clothing, including sheer stockings, midriff bearing bralettes and leather jackets. The women held a sign reading: 'Not the church, not the state, women will decide their fate.' Another read 'anti choicers go to hell', while another simply had 'my body, my choice' written in block letters. 'Our naughty nuns for abortion rights at the "our bodies our choice" rally last weekend - lets decriminalise and de-stigmatise abortion now,' women from the University of Sydney said. The protest was in response to newly introduced anti-abortion laws in Alabama, which criminalises abortion in almost all circumstances, including rape and incest. Other restrictive bans were recently passed in Arkansas, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Dakota and Ohio, among other states.  Women who attended the protest said they were rallying to help protect their rights in Australia, and ensure no such similar laws were introduced in compliance with US standards. At present, abortion laws in Australia are primarily recognised on a state-by-state basis. QUEENSLAND Abortion remained criminalised under the Criminal Code Act 1899 until October 2018. A woman who had an 'unlawful' abortion faced seven years in jail. The practitioner who performed the abortion could be sent to prison for 14 years.   A woman could get a doctor's referral to receive an abortion - making it legal. A doctor must believe the woman's physical or mental health was in serious danger by continuing the pregnancy.    Rape, incest and foetal abnormality were not grounds for a lawful abortion under the state's initial law. On October 17 2018 the Termination of Pregnancy Bill was passed in parliament, decriminalising abortion. The new legislation came into effect in December 2018. Legal to 22 weeks. Legal post - 22 weeks with two doctors' approval.  Exclusion zones are also set at 150m around termination clinics.  NEW SOUTH WALES Abortion has been a criminal offence in New South Wales since 1900, and those who receive an abortion face up to 10 years behind bars. Doctors can legally administer abortions under certain circumstances.  These include if continuing the pregnancy puts a woman's physical or mental health at risk.  Social and economic factors may also be taken into consideration. A bill to decriminalise abortion introduced by Greens MP Mehreen Faruqi, was voted down in NSW parliament. VICTORIA Abortion is legal in Victoria for the first 24 weeks of pregnancy.  After 24 weeks the practice is still legal, but requires the approval of two doctors.  The doctors must agree the abortion is the best option for patients based on a number of different circumstances, including physical, emotional and social well being.   Exclusion zones are also set at 150m around termination clinics.    TASMANIA Abortion is legal in the first 16 weeks of pregnancy.  After 16 weeks the practice is still legal, but requires the approval of two doctors. The state's only private abortion clinic closed down, making it incredibly difficult for women to access the service in the state. SOUTH AUSTRALIA  Abortion is legal up to 28 weeks in South Australia if two doctors support the decision. Doctors can agree if they believe a woman's physical or mental health is endangered by pregnancy, or if there is a risk the child is likely to be born with a serious abnormality. Abortions must be performed in a hospital or prescribed facility.  A woman can still be charged for obtaining an "unlawful" abortion. WESTERN AUSTRALIA Legal up until 20 weeks. There are some restrictions in place for people under the age of 16. The practice is extremely restricted after 20 weeks.  A woman must receive approval from two doctors from a panel of six people appointed by the Health Minister who agree the woman or foetus has a "severe medical condition" which justifies the procedure.  AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL TERRITORY Legal, must be provided by a medical professional in an approved facility. Protest-free "privacy zones" were introduced in 2015. NORTHERN TERRITORY  Abortion is legal up to 23 weeks with the approval of a doctor or medical practitioner. Up until 14 weeks, one doctor must make this determination, but after that period two doctors must agree. Beyond 23 weeks, a woman's life must be endangered to approve termination.   While the practice is criminalised in some states, they all have a method in which women can access termination clinics via certain channels, including getting a doctor's approval.  While some people believe abortions should remain criminalised, the general consensus in research obtained by the Medical Journal of Australia reveals most Australians support early term abortion. In each state and territory, it becomes harder to obtain an abortion later in gestation.  But the rally attracted criticism from other students within the UNSW community, who said the women were 'targeting Christians' in the protest. 'They'd never do this outside a mosque,' one person said. 'They'd be too afraid of offending someone from another culture. 'Imagine if the UNSW Women's Collective dressed up in traditional Muslim or Buddhist wear outside a mosque or temple and mocked their prophets.  'This group should be banned from campus. They don't represent women they represent hate for Christians.' Others argued the group were simply responding to the most prominent 'threat', claiming Christianity has a greater influence on lawmaking in Australia.      'Islam actually is less strict on abortion than Christianity, and also doesn't have a huge stake in the laws of the state in this country,' one person said. 'It's not Muslim or Buddhist leaders in the ears of politicians in our parliaments opposing the decriminalisation of abortion.'  They argued the group 'never mocked Christians as people, rather Christianity as an organised religion', insisting religious beliefs do not supersede a person's right to bodily autonomy.   
