{ By Keith Griffith For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:19, 12 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7132879/Whistleblower-reveals-Pinterest-BANNED-pro-life-group-Live-Action.html }
A whistleblower has leaked internal documents from Pinterest, showing how the social media company blocked the anti-abortion group Live Action by classifying it as porn, and also censored terms related to Christianity and the Bible. Following the revelations, Pinterest permanently banned Live Action on Tuesday, saying that the group spreads 'medical misinformation' and 'conspiracies' in a shutdown notice shared by Live Action.  In a statement, Live Action founder and president Lila Rose said that 'we have more questions than answers about Pinterest's censorship of Live Action and the pro-life message.'  'By secretly applying the label of "pornography" to Live Action's pro-life content, Pinterest demonstrates a concerted effort to sideline a leading pro-life organization the only way they knew how,' Rose said.  Pinterest responded in a statement to DailyMail.com: 'Religious content is allowed on Pinterest, and many people use our service to search for and save Pins inspired by their beliefs. To protect our users from being targeted based on personal characteristics such as their religion, we have policies in place so that ads and recommendations don't appear alongside certain terms.'  Pinterest's apparent censorship efforts first emerged on Tuesday, when the conservative site Project Veritas published an interview with an unnamed Pinterest employee who came forward with documents showing how the company had added LiveAction.org to a list of blocked porn domains. The documents show that LiveAction.org was added to Pinterest's porn domain block list on February 13, with the comment 'health' by the employee that added it. The list blocks users from creating posts that link to the Live Action website. Then on May 29, an internal message shows that someone complained to Pinterest and asked that Live Action be removed from the porn block list. 'I don't think it should be removed, but I think this warrants further discussion because we are currently not removing pro-live/pro-choice content, but this was added to a domain blocklist,' a customer service rep said in the internal message. Live Action apparently remained on Pinterest's porn list until the interview with the whistleblower was published on Wednesday. According to Pinterest, the domain block list was originally used for porn sites, but has evolved to include other uses. The company says that Live Action was added to the list for spreading misinformation and conspiracy theories. Then, Pinterest briefly removed Live Action from their blocked list before sending the group a notification that it had been permanently banned from the service. 'Your account was permanently suspended because its contents went against our policies on misinformation,' the ban notification read.  'We don't allow harmful misinformation on Pinterest. That includes medical misinformation and conspiracies that turn individuals and facilities into targets for harassment and violence.' The Pinterest employee who came forward with the leaked documents has been fired, according to Live Action.  'Pinterest has targeted Live Action, I believe, because our message is so effective at educating millions about the humanity of the preborn child and the injustice of abortion,' Rose said in her statement. 'Pinterest users deserve to know the truth and our messages deserve to be treated fairly. If Planned Parenthood can promote their message on Pinterest, then Live Action should be able to as well,' she continued. The tranche of leaked documents also shows how Pinterest includes many terms related to Christianity on a 'sensitive terms' list that censors them in various ways. The terms 'Bible verses', 'Bible journaling', and 'Christian Easter' were all found on an extensive list of 'sensitive terms'.   The terms were marked 'severity level 2', or 'brand unsafe', which meant that they could not be trending topics, would not appear in recommended queries, and would be blocked from email notifications,   'We have more questions than answers about Pinterest's censorship of Live Action and the pro-life message. Based on the evidence provided, it appears that Pinterest intentionally added 'LiveAction.org' to a 'pornography' blocklist in an effort to suppress our pro-life content from being shared on the platform. 'By secretly applying the label of 'pornography' to Live Action's pro-life content, Pinterest demonstrates a concerted effort to sideline a leading pro-life organization the only way they knew how. This does not appear to be a simple mistake. When confronted with an appeal, their employees doubled down and kept LiveAction.org on the pornography list. What exactly is Pinterest attempting to block? Inspirational messages to pregnant mothers, ultrasound images showing the science of prenatal development, medically accurate information on the abortion procedure, and images saying women deserve better than abortion industry leader Planned Parenthood. 'Pinterest has targeted Live Action, I believe, because our message is so effective at educating millions about the humanity of the preborn child and the injustice of abortion. Pinterest says that their mission is to 'help empower people to discover things that they love,' but despite the fact that millions of people love babies and the pro-life cause, they are secretly censoring our life-affirming messages. Pinterest users deserve to know the truth and our messages deserve to be treated fairly. If Planned Parenthood can promote their message on Pinterest, then Live Action should be able to as well. 'Pinterest trying to secretly and dishonestly censor free expression is every Pinterester's worst nightmare. We urge them to allow free expression on their platform and to stop censoring Live Action's pro-life message.'   
