{ By David Martosko, U.s. Political Editor In West Des Moines, Iowa and Katelyn Caralle, U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com In West Des Moines, Iowa   Published:  02:06, 12 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7130753/Trump-tells-1-million-Iowa-fundraiser-sort-love-unhinged-Democrats-are.html }
President Donald Trump ended his Tuesday on a quiet note in front of 700 Republican donors in Iowa, speaking in calm tones after a day of slash-and-burn attacks on his most visible Democratic rival. Instead of continuing his combative and public dressing-down of former Vice President Joe Biden as a 'loser' and a 'dummy,' descriptors he unleashed hours earlier, Trump blasted the Democratic Party – and didn't risk giving any of its candidates free advertising. Not even the former vice president he lambasted as 'Sleepy Joe.' Not even before a moneyed, enthusiastic and red-meat-hungry audience. 'Despite our amazing success the Democrat Party has never been angrier. They're so angry. Did you ever see people so angry? For what? For what?' he asked. 'These are angry people. Every day the Democrat Party is becoming more and more unhinged, and more and more extreme. They’re going crazy.'  'Do you love it? I sort of love it,' he said. 'They can't see straight. Every single day.'  The president's 49-minute speech Tuesday night was a greatest-hits of Trumpdom crossed with a hit parade of GOP staple issues. He hit illegal immigration and Iran, trade and taxes, health care and the Green New Deal, and then drew a sustained standing ovation for a brief departure on abortion. 'Every human life is a gift from God,' Trump said, sending his audience to their feet in a state whose rhythms are in tune with evangelical Christianity. 'You'd better get out and vote,' he cautioned. In addition to Biden, the president seemed to avoid mentioning another political name – one from his own party. Despite publicly thanking Iowa's governor, a handful of state lawmakers and a few country political chairman for their support, U.S. Rep Steve King went unmentioned. King was in the audience seated at a table not far from where the president entered the ballroom and took the stage. Tuesday marked the president's 70th political fundraiser since he took office, and his 16th this year. The Republican Party of Iowa raised about $1 million for its 2020 war chest, money Trump's campaign is counting on to pay for phone-bankers, door-knockers and ad buys. A party official said it was likely the largest single-event haul in its history. Party chairman Jeff Kaufmann roasted Democrats in a twang that moved the decibel-meter more than the president. 'This is a clown show that we got in Iowa, folks,' he said of the 24 declared candidates who are vying to square off for the White House. Kaufmann called them a 'Fidel Castro, Karl Marx fan club of Democratic nuts.' Iowa's six Electoral College votes weren't difference-makers in 2016, when Trump beat Democrat Hillary Clinton by 77. But next year could be different. And Joe Biden is so far the most likely candidate to win the political world's most important semi-final contest. The day was a coming-out for Trump's political fists – and Joe Biden's. The two men slugged it out in dueling speeches barely 100 miles apart in the critical early state of Iowa. In Council Bluffs and West Des Moines, and at the White House hours earlier, Trump blasted the former vice president as a low-energy laggard who has become mentally unstable and obsessed with him. While speaking to reporters on the White House South Lawn, Trump called the presidential hopeful a 'dummy' and a 'loser' who is 'weak mentally,' a combination that he said would be easy to beat. 'I like running against people that are weak mentally,' he said before boarding Marine One. 'I think Joe is the weakest up here.' After arriving in the Hawkeye State, Trump continued his attacks on Biden, asserting he isn't 'respected' by other world leaders. 'He was someplace in Iowa today, and he said my name so many times that people couldn’t stand it anymore,' Trump claimed.  In nearby Ottumwa on Tuesday morning, Biden spoke to an audience of 85 people and mentioned the president by name 76 times. He claimed the man whose job he wants in 2021 is mentally unfit for office and called him an 'existential threat' to the U.S. The president had drawn first blood as he blasted Biden for downplaying the threat China poses to the U.S. economy.  'Joe Biden thought that China was not a competitor of ours. Joe Biden is a dummy,' he said. 'China is a major competitor.'  'China ate our country alive during Obama and Biden. They ate us alive,' he continued.  Biden had said at a previous event in Iowa that China 'is not competition' to America.  Biden changed his tune on Tuesday, admitting that the Chinese economic engine is 'in some ways' a 'real threat' – but claimed Trump takes the argument too far.  'China poses real challenges to the United States. And in some ways, a real threat to the United States. But Donald Trump is only exacerbating the threat and the danger,' he said.  As he stepped up his own assault on China, Biden claimed that Trump had backed Beijing, because he realized it was costing him support in the Rust Belt.  'He thinks he’s being tough. Well, it’s really easy to be tough when someone else absorbs the pain,' Biden said.   At the president's first stop, an event in the western Iowa town of Council Bluffs, he promoted corn-based ethanol and the renewable fuel standard while slapping at Biden. 'America must never again be held hostage to foreign suppliers of energy, as we were under the Obama-Biden "Sleepy Joe" group,' Trump declared. 'Sleepy Joe. Sleepy guy.'   The former vice president hit back at Trump as he spoke to reporters later in Iowa 'I think I’m either low IQ or slow – I don’t know what I am. Slow Joe Biden? Give me a break,' Biden said. 'This is like out of Alice in Wonderland.'   
