christianity
{ By Ellie May Donohoe For Mailonline   Published:  11:35, 27 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7933627/Jude-Law-cuts-retro-figure-shearling-collared-coat.html }
He attended the 2020 Sundance Film Festival to premiere his new movie, The Nest.  And Jude Law was certainly ready for action as he put on a cosy display when he stepped out on Sunday to head to the festival's final day in Park City, Utah.   The Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald star, 47, cut a relaxed figure in a beige coat with a shearling collar while adding a funky touch with tinted shades. While his look was certainly kooky, Jude still managed to look as handsome as ever with his smattering of salt and pepper facial hair in place. He topped off his retro style with a pair of thick framed sunglasses and appeared in high spirits as he strolled down the street. Upon arrival, the legendary actor gave an impassioned speech at the IMDb Studio where he put on an animated display.  Jude ditched his eccentric coat and favoured a biker style instead, with a leather shirt left open over a simple black T-shirt and jeans.  The Sherlock actor could not stop smiling as he gave a demonstration waving his arms in the air to the observing audience. The star had a whole new outfit change for the premiere of The Nest. He looked dapper in a salmon pink shirt and slipped into a grey loose fitted suit for the event.  The film is a creepy psychological thriller that follows the story of a British investment broker (Jude)  living in New York in 1986 with his wife Allison (Carrie Coon), step-daughter Sam (Oona Roche) and son Ben (Charlie Shotwell).   One day, he announces that they’re moving to England, where he believes he’ll be able to capitalise on some new business opportunities.  His wife Allison is wary as the family have been uprooted many times due to her idolistic husband chasing a dream future, but she agrees regardless.  The family find themselves to a palatial Surrey estate. But something seems foreboding about the rundown property, and eventually it begins to effect the O’Hara clan. Jude also recently appeared in The New Pope. The mini-series premiered on Sky Atlantic and HBO on earlier this month however it sparked criticism from The Catholic Church. In the first scene of the nine-episode HBO Drama, 16 gyrating nuns dressed in their nighties dance at the base of the huge fluorescent crucifix. The scene is filmed in a former monastery on the island of San Giorgio in the Venetian lagoon.  'The scene is offensive and lacks any narrative context that would justify it,' said Father Gianmatteo Caputo, the patriarch’s official in charge of cultural heritage. 'Because it lacks context, what is being offered to viewers is more like a music video, filmed in a place which is important historically and for the monastic tradition of Venice,' the archbishop said, adding the former monastery had been 'transformed into a stage for a coquettish and suggestive dance, performed beneath the supreme symbol of Christianity, the cross.' Jude stars in the series as Lenny Belardo, also known as Pius XIII, the first-ever American pope. Actresses Cecile de France and Ludivine Sagnier also star in key roles.   
