{ By Eleanor Harding Education Editor For The Daily Mail   Published:  22:44, 7 June 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7117767/Uni-Southampton-forced-pay-2-5million-economist-claims-discriminated-against.html }
A leading economist won a £2.5million payout after accusing his university of discriminating against him for being German and Christian. Judge Mark Emerton, who presided over the case, said he had to award the maximum sum because officials at Southampton did not counter Richard Werner’s claims. He said ‘the failure to engage was astonishing’ because the university had a limited budget and the payout would have been smaller had its representatives attended the 90-minute hearing. After being contacted by the Daily Mail, the university said it would apply to have the award scrapped. Robert Halfon, who chairs the Commons education committee, said: ‘If this is true, this is an extraordinary abuse and waste of taxpayers’ and students’ money, especially when hard-pressed students will have to spend thousands of pounds paying their loans back. ‘If a mistake has been made, heads should roll. This money could have been spent on tuition and helping disadvantaged students get a really good university degree.’ Professor Werner, 52, coined the term quantitative easing, the policy used by the Bank of England in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. In an employment tribunal this week, he accused Southampton of mistreating him during his 14 years there. He claimed he was victimised in a ‘harassment and bullying’ campaign between 2010 and 2018 – being denied leave requests and promotion. He also said he was not allowed to take a sabbatical to work on a book despite his colleagues being given this right. ‘I was discriminated against for my religion, belief and race as a German,’ he told the hearing. He said colleagues began harassing him after he suggested improvements: ‘The procedures at the university were not robust, they were broken and I suggested a remedy and nothing was corrected. ‘There was a string of incidents including victimisation and harassment. It was related to my beliefs and there was evidence I was being discriminated against because of my nationality and Christianity. I was not given holiday pay because of discrimination and as a result I had a big workload. I would have been promoted if it was not for discrimination matters.’ Professor Werner, who lives in Winchester, resigned from the university, where he was professor of international banking, last July. He said officials conducted a number of investigations into him. Judge Emerton said he was astonished the university failed to respond to or defend any of the claims and did not attend the hearing which was held little more than a mile from the campus. Addressing the professor, he said: ‘Consider yourself lucky that the university failed to be here today as if they did attend you would have got less because they would have argued some of the claims. The university’s failure to engage in the process has been to your considerable advantage. ‘The sum is going to be well in excess of £2.5million, which is a very large sum when you consider people in employment tribunals usually get less than £20,000.’ Around £136,000 of the award was for owed holiday pay, earning £105,000 a year. Judge Emerton ruled that unfair dismissal, racial discrimination, religious discrimination and failure to pay a worker were all proved. A spokesman for Southampton said yesterday: ‘The university strenuously rejects the assertion that any sum is due to Professor Richard Werner.’   
