christianity
{ By Geoff Earle, Deputy U.s. Political Editor For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:26, 31 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7091625/Now-Pete-Buttigiegs-born-brother-law-says-one-shunned-family.html }
The family drama surrounding Pete Buttigieg took another turn, this one televised, as brother-in-law Rhyan Glezman rejected Chasten Buttigieg's story of battling family disapproval after he came out as gay.  Rhyan Glezman, a 34-year-old pastor and Chasten's older brother, says if anyone it is he who was shunned by the family after becoming a born-again Christian. Glezman hasn't spoken to his now-famous younger brother in a year, he told Fox News host Laura Ingraham, who asked during a televised interview if they were close.  'To be honest, our family dynamic has been rocky for nine to 10 years,' Glezman said. 'When I became a born-again believer in Jesus Christ, the family dynamic dramatically shifted. If there was any shunning, to be honest with you, just to share the truth, that would be myself being shunned over my brother,' he said. Glezman said he hasn't spoken to his brother or his high-profile brother-in-law since his grandmother's funeral about a year ago. But he said he said he gave the interview to Ingraham so that the 'truth could prevail.' 'To be honest with you, I didn't sign up for this,' he told the conservative host, who asked why he didn't just 'pick up the phone' and call his brother.  'The only reason I'm here is for the truth to prevail. If it'd be – if it was that easy, that would've already been done,' he said. These communications and – that would've already been done if it was as easy as it could be.'  He said his brother, who attends campaign events with Buttigieg and has developed his own Twitter following, had invented a 'rags-to-riches' tale for 'political gain.' 'In a crowded field, you need -- you need to get your story out there,' he speculated. 'So, what better story to have this rags-to-riches, to make it look like he came from a mayor of a Midwestern town going for the presidency. His husband who supposedly, according to 'The Washington Post,' had been shunned from the family, have been kicked out by the family who supposedly was homeless, which we have no memory of that ever happening,' he said.  'To my memory, there's absolutely no recollection of him being homeless, there's no shunning,' he told Ingraham. Asked whom he was voting for, he replied: 'Trump in 2020.'  A Buttigieg spokeswoman did not immediately return a request for comment.  Glezman even took a shot at Buttigieg's political experience. Buttigieg is the mayor of South Bend, and served in the national guard.  'The way I see it, in such a competitive, a very large Democratic field of candidates, you need to – you need to have a story. And, you know, I'm not going to cut down on a mayor's role. I think a mayor's role is very important. But at the end, if you only have the mayor role, and you're going to the next – the highest office in the country, you need to have a different story,' he said. Chasten spoke about coming out to his family for a New York Times article that covered his 2018 wedding. 'I decided at 18 that I needed to come out,' he said said Chasten, who grew up in a conservative Catholic household. 'And I don't recall my parents specifically saying I couldn't live at home anymore, but I was made to believe I needed to leave.'  His mother, Sherri, who co-operates a family landscaping business, told the Times about the fateful conversation.  'I don't want to say we were shocked,' she said. 'But, from our perspective, I was sad for him that, having two brothers that were into every sport, as roughneck as it comes, Chasten would be afraid of being perceived as different, or not as much of a man.'  Glezman had previously pushed back at the narrative that Chasten was shunned by his family after coming out as gay and struggled through poverty.   Glezman, one of Chasten's two brothers, was quoted in a Washington Post story saying he loved his brother, but, 'I just don't support the gay lifestyle.' His other brother Dustin said the family strain continues, saying, 'We never got over it.'  'Do I love him? Absolutely. He is my brother.' Glezman said of Chasten, 29.  'You can't change that. Just because we have a disagreement doesn't change that,' he told the Washington Examiner, who caught up with him in his small Michigan town as Buttigieg continues to remain in an upper tier of Democratic candidates. Glezman also responded to a claim, depicted in the Post story, that Chasten lived economic deprivation. The Post reported he 'has been a homeless community college student and a Starbucks barista,' recounting his time living on couches after coming out as gay to his family.  He grew up in a working class family, but for a time broke ties, going to Germany on an exchange program as a student.  'The further away I could get, the safer I felt, he told the paper, which recounts Chasten's telling that one of his siblings said 'no brother of mine ...' when he broke the news to his family that he was gay. There had been earlier cultural clashes in the home. 'I would be inside reading Harry Potter or singing Celine Dion at the top of my lungs while my mom and I were dusting the cabinets,' recalled Chasten. His brothers more interested in hunting and outdoor activities. He moved out, living on friends' couches and occasionally sleeping in his car in a parking lot of a community college.   'He was struggling for a time. But there was nothing on the family end that said he had to leave,' said Glezman. 'The story makes it look as if he came from nothing, a poor family,' complained Glezman. 'Chasten had everything, from cellphones paid for, car insurance paid for.' His brother accused him of playing the 'victim card.' He also vented that Christians were being shunned in the political conversation. 'I believe for me, as a Christian, we're the people being shunned, people being silenced, and a lot of the liberal side of things are becoming the bigots to Christianity and faith,' he said. 'They are becoming the intolerant side.' He blasted what he considers the tailoring of a story to fit the Buttigieg campaign. 'A mayor from a small city and his husband, a child who grew up with nothing and his parents kicked him out … it makes a perfect political story for the campaign,' he told the reporter at his Clio Community Church.  'To me that's very sad. If that's all you have to stand on, you're not fit to be president of the United States.' Chasten says of the time he told his parents he was gay during the summer after graduating high school and said: 'I remember my mom crying.' He added: 'And the first thing she asked me was if I was sick. I think she meant, like, did I have AIDS?'  A recent Time Magazine profile recounts how Buttigieg and Glezman met on online dating app Hinge while Buttigieg was serving as mayor, and follows his decision to come out while in office to avoid any political problems while dating. Titled 'First Family,' it describes mundane elements of the couple's home-life, including how they divide chores and bicker over food.   The Post's headline was: 'Chasten Buttigieg has been a homeless community college student and a Starbucks barista. Now, he could be 'first gentleman.'  Whatever the truth of Chasten's experience coming out, his parents Sherri and Terry, both 55, are now supportive of him, and gave him away when he married Buttigieg at the Episcopal church in South Bend where they married in 2018. Chasten Glezman described his parents as his husband's 'biggest fans.' The couple run a landscaping and Christmas decorations business in Traverse City, MI. Their other son Dustin, 31, also works in a landscaping business, in Georgia. JOE BIDEN Age on Inauguration Day 2021: 78 Entered race: April 25, 2019 Career: No current role. A University of Delaware and Syracuse Law graduate, he was first elected to Newcastle City Council in 1969, then won upset election to Senate in 1972, aged 29. Was talked out of quitting before being sworn in when his wife and daughter died in a car crash and served total of six terms. Chaired Judiciary Committee's notorious Clarence Thomas confirmation hearings. Ran for president in 1988, pulled out after plagiarism scandal, ran again in 2008, withdrew after placing fifth in the Iowa Caucuses. Tapped by Obama as his running mate and served two terms as vice president. Contemplated third run in 2016 but decided against it after his son died of brain cancer. Family: Eldest of four siblings born to Joe Biden Sr. and Catherine Finnegan. First wife Neilia Hunter and their one-year-old daughter Naomi died in car crash which their two sons, Joseph 'Beau' and Robert Hunter survived. Married Jill Jacobs in 1976, with whom he has daughter Ashley. Beau died of brain cancer in 2015. Hunter's marriage to Kathleen Buhle, with whom he has three children, ended in 2016 when it emerged Hunter was in a relationship with Beau's widow Hallie, mother of their two children. Hunter admitted cocaine use; his estranged wife accused him of blowing their savings on drugs and prostitutes Religion: Catholic Views on key issues: Ultra-moderate who will emphasize bipartisan record. Will come under fire over record, having voted: to stop desegregation bussing in 1975; to overturn Roe v Wade in 1981; for now controversial 1994 Violent Crime Act; for 2003 Iraq War; and for banking deregulation. Says he is 'most progressive' Democrat. New positions include free college, tax reform, $15 minimum wage. No public position yet on Green New Deal and healthcare. Pro-gun control. Has already apologized to women who say he touched them inappropriately Would make history as: Oldest person elected president Slogan: Our Best Days Still Lie Ahead MIKE BLOOMBERG Age on Inauguration Day: 78 Entered race: November 24, 2019 Career: Currently multi-billionaire CEO of Bloomberg PL, the financial information firm he founded in 1981 and which remains a private company. Educated at Johns Hopkins and Harvard, he became a Wall Street trader at investment bank Salomon Brothers and was laid off in 1981, walking away with $10m in stock which he used to set up his own financial information firm, now one of the world's largest. Three times mayor of New York 2002 to 2013, running first as Republican then as independent; had to get term limits suspended for final term. Once flirted with running for mayor of London where he has a home; holds an honorary knighthood from Queen Elizabeth. Has spent large amounts on philanthropy in line with his political views as well as on political campaigns Family: Born in Brookline, MA, to first-generation Jewish immigrant parents whose own parents had fled Russia. Divorced wife of 18 years, Susan Brown-Meyer, in 1993; former couple have daughters Emma, who has a son with her former boyfriend, and Georgina, who has daughter Zelda with her husband Chris Fissora. The child has a portmanteau surname, Frissberg. Partner since 2000 is Diana Taylor, former New York state banking commissioner, 13 years his junior Religion: Jewish Views on key issues: Self-professed fiscal conservative, although painted as a Democratic moderate by other conservative groups. Opposed to Medicare for all. Social progressive who backed gay marriage early, but has flip-flopped on marijuana legalization, most recently opposing it.. Wants firm action on climate change. Fiercely in favor of gun control. As New York mayor banned smoking in public places and tried to outlaw large sugary drinks. Backs increased immigration. Apologized for his stop-and-frisk policing strategy as mayor Would make history as: Oldest person elected president; first Jewish president; richest president ever; first New York mayor to become president Slogan:  Fighting For Our Future PETE BUTTIGIEG Age on Inauguration Day: 39 Entered race: Announced formation of exploratory committee January 23, 2019. Formally entered race April 14, 2019 Career: Currently mayor of Sound Bend, Indiana. Harvard grad and Rhodes scholar who got a second degree from Oxford before working as a McKinsey management consultant and being commissioned as a Navy Reserve intelligence officer. Elected South Bend mayor in 2011 and served in combat in 2013, won re-election in 2015 Family: Came out as gay during second mayoral run and married husband Chasten Glezman, a middle school teacher in 2018. Parents were University of Notre Dame academics; his father was Maltese-American. Surname is pronounced BOOT-edge-edge Religion: Raised as a Catholic, now Episcopalian Views on key issues: Has said Democratic party needs a 'fresh start'; wrote an essay in praise of Bernie Sanders aged 17; backed paid parental leave for city employees; other policies unknown  Would make history as: First openly gay and youngest-ever president. First veteran of post-World War II conflict  Slogan: A Fresh Start For America   TULSI GABBARD Age on Inauguration Day: 39 Entered race: Still to formally file any papers but said she would run on January 11 2019 Career: Currently Hawaii congresswoman. Born on American Samoa, a territory. Raised largely in Hawaii, she co-founded an environmental non-profit with her father as a teenager and was elected to the State Legislature aged 21, its youngest member in history. Enlisted in the National Guard and served two tours, one in Iraq 2004-2006, then as an officer in Kuwait in 2009. Ran for Honolulu City Council in 2011, and House of Representatives in 2012 Family: Married to her second husband, Abraham Williams, a cinematographer since 2015. First marriage to childhood sweetheart Eduardo Tamayo in 2002 ended in 2006. Father Mike Gabbard is a Democratic Hawaii state senator, mother Carol Porter runs a non-profit. Religion: Hindu Views on key issues: Has apologized for anti-abortion and anti-gay marriage views; wants marijuana federally legalized; opposed to most U.S. foreign interventions; backs $15 minimum wage and universal health care; was the second elected Democrat to meet Trump after his 2016 victory Would make history as: First female, Hindu and Samoan-American president; youngest president ever Slogan: Lead with Love     AMY KLOBUCHAR Age on Inauguration Day: 60 Entered race: Announced candidacy February 10, 2019 at snow-drenched rally in her native Minneapolis Career: Currently Minnesota senator. Yale and University of Chicago law graduate who became a corporate lawyer. First ran unsuccessfully for office in 1994 as Hennepin, MI, county attorney, and won same race in 1998, then in 2002, without opposition. Ran for Senate in 2006 and won 58-38; re-elected in 2012 and 2018 Family: Married to John Bessler, law professor at University of Baltimore and expert on capital punishment. Daughter Abigail Bessler, 23, works fora Democratic member of New York City council. Father Jim, 90, was a veteran newspaper columnist who has written a memoir of how his alcoholism hurt his family; mom Rose is a retired grade school teacher Religion: Congregationalist (United Church of Christ) Views on key issues: Seen as a mainstream liberal: says she wants 'universal health care' but has not spelled out how; pro-gun control; pro-choice; backs $15 minimum wage; no public statements on federal marijuana legalization; has backed pro-Israel law banning the 'boycott, divestment and sanctions' movement; spoke out against abolishing ICE Would make history as: First female president Slogan: Let's Get To Work   BERNIE SANDERS Age on Inauguration Day: 79 Entered race: Sources said on January 25, 2019, that he would form exploratory committee. Officially announced February 19 Career: Currently Vermont senator. Student civil rights and anti-Vietnam activist who moved to Vermont and worked as a carpenter and radical film-maker. Serial failed political candidate in the 1970s, he ran as a socialist for mayor of Burlington in 1980 and served two terms ending in 1989, and win a seat in Congress as an independent in 1990. Ran for Senate in 2006 elections as an independent with Democratic endorsement and won third term in 2018. Challenged Hillary Clinton for the Democratic nomination in 2016 but lost. Campaign has since been hit by allegations of sexual harassment  - for which he has apologized - and criticized for its 'Bernie bro' culture Family: Born to a Jewish immigrant father and the daughter of Jewish immigrant parents in Brooklyn, New York. First marriage to college sweetheart Deborah Shiling Messing in 1964 ended in divorce in 1966; had son Levi in 1969 with then girlfriend Susan Cambell Mott. Married Jone O'Meara in 1988 and considers her three children, all adults, his own. The couple have seven grandchildren. His older brother Larry is a former Green Party councilor in Oxfordshire, England.  Religion: Secular Jewish  Views on key issues: Openly socialist and standard bearer for the Democratic party's left-turn. Wants federal $15 minimum wage; banks broken up; union membership encouraged; free college tuition; universal health care; re-distributive taxation; he opposed Iraq War and also U.S. leading the fight against ISIS and wants troops largely out of Afghanistan and the Middle East Would make history as: Oldest person elected president; first Jewish president Slogan: Not me. Us. TOM STEYER  Age on Inauguration Day 2021: 63 Entered race: July 9, 2019 Career: Currently retired. New York-born to wealthy family, he was educated at elite Phillips Exeter Academy, and Yale, then Stanford Business School. Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs banker who founded his own hedge fund in 1986 and made himself a billionaire; investments included subprime lenders, private prisons and coal mines. Stepped down in 2012 to focus on advocating for alternative energy. Longtime Democratic activist and donor who started campaign to impeach Trump in October 2017. Net worth of $1.6 billion has made him one of the Democrats' biggest single donors Family: Married Kathryn Taylor in 1986; they have four adult children who have been told they will not inherit the bulk of his fortune. Announced last November he and his wife would live apart. Father Roy was a Nuremberg trials prosecutor Religion: Episcopalian Views on key issues: On the left of the field despite being a hedge fund tycoon. Backs single-payer health care, minimum wage rises and free public college. Previously spoke in favor of Bernie Sanders' agenda. Aggressive backer of climate change action, including ditching fossil fuels Would make history as: Richest Democratic president ever Slogan: Actions Speak Louder Than Words   ELIZABETH WARREN Age on Inauguration Day: 71 Entered race:  Set up exploratory committee December 31, 2018 Career: Currently Massachusetts senator. Law lecturer and academic who became an expert on bankruptcy law and tenured Harvard professor. Ran for Senate and won in 2012, defeating sitting Republican Scott Brown, held it in 2018 60% to 36%. Was short-listed to be Hillary's running mate and campaigned hard for her in 2016 Family: Twice-married mother of two and grandmother of three. First husband and father of her children was her high-school sweetheart. Second husband Bruce Mann is Harvard law professor. Daughter Amelia Tyagi and son Alex Warren have both been involved in her campaigns. Has controversially claimed Native American roots; DNA test suggested she is as little as 1,064th Native American Religion: Raised Methodist, now described as Christian with no fixed church Views on key issues: Was a registered Republican who voted for the party but registered as a Democrat in 1996. Pro: higher taxes on rich; banking regulation; Dream Act path to citizenship for 'dreamers'; abortion and gay rights; campaign finance restrictions; and expansion of public provision of healthcare - although still to spell out exactly how that would happen. Against: U.S. presence in Afghanistan and Syria; liberalization of gambling Would make history as: First female president  Slogan: Warren Has A Plan For That  AND THE 21 WHO HAVE WITHDRAWN     MICHAEL BENNET, Colorado senator CORY BOOKER, New Jersey Senator  STEVE BULLOCK, Montana governor  JULIÁN CASTRO, former Housing Secretary KIRSTEN GILLIBRAND, New York senator BILL DE BLASIO, New York City mayor  JOHN DELANEY, former Maryland Congressman MIKE GRAVEL, Former Alaska governor  KAMALA HARRIS,California senator   JOHN HICKENLOOPER, Former Colorado governor JAY INSLEE, Washington governor  WAYNE MESSAM, mayor of Miramar, Florida  SETH MOULTON, Massachusetts congressman RICHARD OJEDA, former West Virginia state senator BETO O'ROURKE, former Texas congressman DEVAL PATRICK, former Massachusetts governor  TIM RYAN, Ohio congressman JOE SESTAK, former Pennsylvania congressman  ERIC SWALWELL, California congressman MARIANNE WILLIAMSON, author ANDREW YANG, entrepreneur   
