{ By Joshua Fox For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:52, 25 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7070993/The-Veronicas-Lisa-Origliasso-new-husband-Logan-Huffman-spend-three-months-apart.html }
Lisa Origliasso and Logan Huffman have spent most of their married life apart.  After saying 'I do' in November, The Veronicas singer to to Instagram on Saturday to reveal that they are now in a long distance relationship, presumably due to work commitments.  'We've spent a total of 5 days together in almost 3.5 months,' penned Lisa, 34, before admitting her struggle at being apart.  She added: 'People always ask me how we do it. Long distance isn't an easy thing. 'But loving him is. Obviously life is so much better in each other's arms. But I'd wait forever and a day for just another second with him again.  'Having grounding in love only makes the distance feel like a part of the journey that eventually brings us back together.' Commenting on the post, American actor Logan added: 'Love of my life. So soon.' The couple got married in a hipster ceremony on the Sunshine Coast last year. The spiritually diverse day incorporated a smorgasbord of religions, from Christianity and Buddhism to Shinto and Hinduism, and was officiated by a high priestess.  'An integral part of our pre-ceremony above all else, was to show respect to the rightful owners of the land on which we wed,' said Logan afterwards.  For their honeymoon, they went glamping at the $795-per-night Nightfall camp in Queensland.  Since then, Lisa has been busy working alongside twin sister Jessica. In March, they released single Think of Me, and have also been filming an MTV reality show in recent months too, titled 'Jess and Lisa: The Veronicas'.   A first look at the fly on the wall program earlier this month featured the twin sisters clashing in one dramatic scene. 'Are you just totally checking out now having a f***ing attitude moment?' Jessica asked Lisa, as the pop star siblings sat in the back of a car. 'What? I'm letting you speak,' Lisa fired back in the heated moment.   
