{ By Tim Stickings For Mailonline   Published:  09:58, 24 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7066137/Playboy-model-chased-ultra-orthodox-Jewish-area-New-York.html }
A Playboy model known for a series of controversial nude stunts was chased out of an ultra-conservative Jewish neighbourhood in New York City after walking the streets naked. Belgian model Marisa Papen provoked the Hasidic Jewish community by walking totally exposed around Williamsburg, Brooklyn. She said one man had 'gurgled and spat right through an open window' at her while she sat in a taxi while video footage showed her being confronted by a group of furious locals.   The model has previously stripped off at holy sites in Islam, Judaism and Christianity, posing naked at Istanbul's Hagia Sophia, Jerusalem's Western Wall and near St Peter's Basilica in the Vatican.  In her latest project she poses in front of a Jewish school bus and walks in front of a group of men wearing traditional Hasidic Jewish clothing and hats.  However, she was confronted by angry local residents after darkness had fallen.   She said: 'They were freaking out and yelling. One of them was pointing at his phone, screaming that he had the cops on the line and that they were a few cars behind us. 'As the sirens were getting louder, the Uber driver was freaking out.'  Papen and her crew then decided to exit the car and flee on foot. Video footage shows the model and cameraman Dries Vanderaerden running from the scene while someone shouts 'Go! Go stop them!' A man who appears to be a Hasidic Jew then shouts: 'Don't move!' Another resident then asks what is going on and the man replies: 'She runs naked in the street.'    A police officer arrives on the scene with one man explaining that Marisa was seen running nude on the street. Marisa told the cop that 'they pushed me against the rails' and denied being naked, saying 'nothing exactly happened' to escape arrest. The Playboy model said: 'The officer eventually let us go. Yes I lied, but there was no other way.'  She claimed that when she walked around dressed she was ignored 'because men are not allowed to talk to other women on the street'.  Some residents 'did not speak a word of English' and only spoke Yiddish, she asserted.  'The lack of love and understanding for others, and the fact they close themselves off from the outside or "secular" world as they call it, shows how afraid they are,' she said.  In one of her previous stunts, in May 2018, she posed completely naked on a rooftop overlooking the Western Wall in Jerusalem.  She explained that she wanted to 'push the boundaries of religion and politics even further with the controversial photo.  On the trip she also had pictures taken of her straddling a flagpole waving the Israeli flag and posing topless in the Dead Sea.  The Western Wall, in East Jerusalem, is the holiest place at which Jews are allowed to pray. Last October she caused further outrage by flashing her genitals at Istanbul's Hagia Sophia mosque, a 1,500-year-old landmark which was once a Greek Orthodox church. Two months later she took aim at a Christian landmark, posing naked at the Vatican while carrying a large wooden cross in imitation of Jesus.  Another picture showed Ms Papen sitting nude on some bibles on the wet cobblestones of St Peter's Square while other snaps showed her tied to the cross.  Police chased after her and photographer Jesse Walker and put the pair in a cell, before releasing them ten hours later.   
