christianity
{ By Harriet Johnston For Mailonline   Published:  15:49, 17 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7037599/Survivor-sexual-abuse-opens-struggling-sex-husband.html }
A couple who didn't have sex before they got married have admitted that they're still struggling with an intimate connection years later.  British couple Nana, 29, and Nyasha, 27, appear in tonight's Sex Tape in Channel 4, for which they allowed cameras to film them in the bedroom for a week in a bid to improve things between the sheets.  The pair admitted that they found it hard to go from dating to being a sexually active married couple, while Nyasha said he didn't know what his wife finds enjoyable.  Although the show didn't reveal how long they've been married, the couple have an 18-month-old son meaning it's been at least two-and-a-half years.   When reviewing the footage alongside two other couples, Nana teared up as she revealed their relationship could be linked to her experience of  sexual abuse as a child. She said: 'It's just that growing up I was abused so I don't know if that has a link. Maybe in my head I don't want to have a link.' Sex Tape sees three couples film themselves over the course of a week and then discuss the footage together as a group. Joined by Dan and Rachel, Eloise and Jack and therapist Angela, they opened up about their problems in an effort to improve the level of intimacy in their relationship. The couple, who have an 18-month-old son Nathaniel, reveal that their religion had caused them to wait till marriage to have sex.     But Nyasha revealed that it wasn't all they'd hoped it would be, deeming it 'terrible'. He said: 'We were excited to have sex together, we slept together on our wedding night - it was a bit weird.' Calling Christianity 'the foundation of our marriage', the couple explained that they felt they hadn't had enough guidance from the church on going from 'nothing' to suddenly feeling sexually liberated.   The couple said they'd put 'intimacy' at the bottom of the things they needed to work on in their relationship.  Nyasha explained:  'How do you go from courting to marriage? That gap was never really explained for us actually.'   He called for better sexual education for children in church, saying: 'It would help children who are there, so that when they get married they're not like "oh heck what is going on".'  'I only realised how much it affected us after we got married, because now I don't know how to touch her, I don't know what she finds enjoyable.'  Meanwhile Nana revealed she struggles to initiate things with her husband, saying:  'The actual sex is OK, but the getting to it is the problem. I think that's where we could improve.' She revealed she feels 'weird and shy' about it, admitting she can't even remember having sex with Nyasha for the first time.  She explained: 'I just feel weird to initiate. In my head I'm thinking of it, but when it comes to actually going through with it.'  But as Angela pointed out that Nana looked like a lost 'little girl' by playing with her hair, the therapist asked: 'How old are you when you do that?' Nana coudn't help but burst into tears, and deemed it 'so annoying'.  Through tears, she said: 'It's just that growing up I was abused so I don't know if that has a link. I think maybe in my head...I don't want to have a link.'  She went on: 'I feel like I'm over it. I think I've got past it but I guess when you said little girl...it took me back.'   Meanwhile Nyasha said he's known about the abuse since early on in their relationship.  He explained that he's always there to support her through any memories she may have, saying: 'It wouldn't chase me away. I'm there to listen, I always listen to her if she brings it up or anything. It's never going to be an issue in our marriage.  'But if it is affecting us then yeah we need to talk about it.'  Their fellow contestants deemed her 'so brave' for opening up, and said that she deserves happiness. And it's revealed at the end of the programme that the couple are working through their problems together. A month on, Nana revealed: 'This process has definitely made me feel more confident, but I'm also very aware that it's a process.'  'All we needed was a bit more foreplay.'  Sex Tape airs tonight at 10pm on Channel 4   
