{ By Michael Havis For Mailonline   Published:  13:34, 16 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7035925/Stunning-pictures-North-Korea-Kim-Il-Sung-seized-power-1948.html }
When the Kim dynasty seized power following the collapse of Imperial Japan, they rebuilt North Korea in the communist image. The small view outsiders have of the hermit state show a hard concrete face, dedicated to its series of dictators without much of a hint of any previous history.  But now, a cache of fascinating photos has revealed the face of a land untouched by their regime. The set of images were taken before Kim Il-sung - the current ruler's grandfather - took power in 1948, and show a country almost unrecognisable today. Having been ruled by hundreds of monarchs up to 1910. These images show the first years of Imperial Japan's grip on the relatively undeveloped country, which still held much of its heritage. They show Christianity was widespread, with large groups of believers gathering in public to study the bible and worship - today there is no freedom of religion in the North. They also show that railroads ran from one end of the Korean peninsula to the other - a journey that is now impossible. While Pyongyang today is a model of Soviet-style brutalism, the photos reveal how it used to be a mix of traditional Korean homes and western-style buildings. There are even a few things caught on camera that did survive to today, namely the Chilsong Gate and Kija's Tomb in Pyongyang. Korean studies lecturer Dr Owen Miller said the city was transformed after being reduced to rubble in the war that followed the North's invasion of the South. 'The city was pretty much flattened by the US Air Force during the Korean War,' he said. 'That's not to say it wouldn't have changed anyway, but war is a great accelerator of change.' Instead of rebuilding what was lost or allowing the city to take shape naturally, the Kim regime set about realising their vision of a socialist paradise. 'I think the North Korean state and Kim Il-sung saw themselves as having a mission to create a modern, prosperous society and everything that went with modernity,' said Dr Miller. 'That meant good living conditions in modern apartments, big boulevards, cultural facilities and concert halls, and all those kind of things.' He continued: 'Old-fashioned traditional or colonial buildings were not what they saw themselves as being about. 'This was the 1950s and it wasn't just limited to North Korea or the socialist bloc, it was kind of universal. 'This was the age of looking forward to the future; an age for optimism and the creation a new model world. 'They were also kind of modelling themselves on the Soviet Union and the Soviet way of living.' Other photos, however, reveal how little things have progressed in the decades since. One image shows how livestock, then as now, was used to move goods in North Korea due to a lack of mechanised transport. And agriculture in the North, like in the pictures, is still very reliant on manual labour. Dr Miller, of SOAS University of London, said it was a period that North Koreans were taught to feel negatively about, because it was part of Japan's 35-year-long occupation of the country. One photo actually shows Japanese flags outside a railway station. He said: 'The period before 1945 is seen very negatively - as a period of misery, a combination of feudal and colonial rule, with very cruel Japanese occupiers. 'It's seen extremely negatively in every possible way, apart from the resistance to it by partisans and nationalists.' For a brief period beginning in 1897, Korea was an independent nation. The Korean people had gained their freedom from Russian rule, formed their own empire, and finally won the opportunity to develop and revel in their own culture. But not long after Korea had won its freedom, the Japanese swept in and took it away. By 1905, Korea was a protectorate of Japan and by 1910, they were completely annexed by Japan. Japanese rule was harsh and Korea underwent drastic changes during this time. Their Emperor - Sujong of Korea - and currency were abolished and Koreans were forced to speak Japanese. The country remained under their rule until the end of the Second World War in 1945 when the allied armies defeated the Japanese. With this victory, it seemed, for a brief moment like there would be a free and united Korea once more. However Korea was then divided into two zones. Two separate governments were established - one in the North and one in the South, backed by the Soviets and the US respectively, each claiming to be the legitimate government of the whole peninsula. Korea remains divided to this day.   
