{ By Tim Collins For Mailonline and Victoria Allen Science Correspondent For The Daily Mail   Published:  00:02, 9 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7006809/Ancient-royal-burial-site-Anglo-Saxon-King-Saebert-discovered.html }
A royal burial site found beneath a roadside verge in Essex has been dubbed one of the most significant archaeological finds ever made in England. Discovered between a pub and an Aldi supermarket, it is thought to be the burial chamber of the brother of Anglo-Saxon King Saebert. Researchers behind the find have hailed it as the 'British equivalent of Tutankhamun's tomb' - despite little similarities in appearance.  Belying its unglamorous location, inside the chamber are 40 artefacts thought to have belonged to the ancient Essex prince Saexa.  The Anglo-Saxons were Pagans, but the Christian items found in the chamber suggest the religion was still important in England 1,400 years ago. It is the earliest Christian Anglo-Saxon princely burial found in the UK, according to experts from the Museum of London Archaeology (MOLA).  Royal families emerged in Anglo-Saxon times in Kent, Essex and across south-east England.  Saebert and Seaxa's mother was from the Kentish royal family, but their maternal aunt, Bertha, was a French princess who married into their royal family and brought her Christian beliefs with her. That may explain the gold crosses on the prince's eyes and the coins in the chamber, which are clearly Christian, while the very idea of a burial chamber is Pagan. The researchers say the site represents a 'transitional moment' in this country's history before Christianity took over. Scroll down for video  Experts are fascinated by this time in English history as Anglo-Saxon kingdoms were emerging, with separate royal families in different parts of the country.  The name Essex comes from the East Saxon families which ruled over this part of England.  Just like Tutankhamun's famous tomb in Egypt, it is completely intact, with looters and 19th Century amateur archaeologists having been unable to find it as the mound on top of it collapsed. Sophie Jackson, director of research for MOLA, which was involved in studying the chamber, said: 'This is one of the most significant archaeological finds ever seen in England. 'It is the British equivalent of Tutankhamun's tomb as everything in it is just as it was left 1,400 years ago. 'It was found on an unpromising site, which is just really a grass verge, but this is an aristocratic burial site and the artefacts provide a great insight into religious life at the time.' The Essex site is the earliest Anglo-Saxon royal burial chamber found in England. First thought to hold Anglo-Saxon King Saebert, it is now believed it could be the resting place of his brother, Prince Saexa. Just like Tutankhamun's tomb, the chamber was found completely intact, as it would have looked when the prince was buried 1,400 years ago. Gold crosses covering the body's eyes and on the coins in its hands show this was a Christian burial, but Anglo-Saxons at this early date were famously Pagans. For the first time, this suggests Christianity was important in southern England before the arrival of Augustine from Italy, who came to convert us. The chamber would have taken up to 25 men almost five days to build, using the wood from 13 oak trees. So much effort indicates a royal was buried inside, with 40 artefacts to take with him to the afterlife. Radiocarbon dating of a horn drinking cup and minted coins show the prince was probably buried between 580 and 605AD. The chamber discovered the Essex town of Prittlewell contains nothing of the prince thought to be buried there except some enamel fragments from his teeth, which show he was older than six. But two gold foil crosses, thought to have been placed over his eyes, a gold belt buckle and shoe buckles suggest he was a man or teenager around five feet eight inches tall. The burial site was found by archaeologists in 2003 before the road it lies on was widened. Experts have spent 15 year excavating the chamber - which MOLA says took 113 working days to build and involved a huge investment in skilled labour and materials - to recreate what it may have looked like inside.  Its age is now known for the first time, based on radiocarbon dating of a drinking horn in the chamber and coins buried with the body which bear the name of the mint in France they come from and were only produced after 580AD. The date of the chamber, now known to be between 580AD and 605AD, rules out that it contained King Saebert, as previously thought.  Experts now believe his brother, Prince Saexa, was the one given such a grand send-off.   The modern county of Essex was a kingdom in the Dark Ages that included London and Middlesex. The name Essex means 'Land of the East Saxons', who settled the region after migrating from North-West Germany and sailing up the River Thames. The first king was a man named Aescwin, who lived in the mid Sixth Century. He claimed that the Saxon god, Saxnot, was his ancestor. The kings are thought to have lived at Cripplegate in London and their Royal monastery was at St Paul's Cathedral. The kings often shared their kingdom between brothers and the most famous King of Essex was King Saexa. He ruled from 600 to 616 AD, during which time he converted to Christianity and helped St Mellitus set up St. Paul's Cathedral in London. He died in 617 AD and some researchers believe he was buried in Westminster Abbey.  Others argue that he was probably buried in the Royal grave excavated at Prittlewell. The most recent findings suggest that, rather than the burial site of King Saebert, the grave in fact belonged to his brother, Prince Saexa.  The date of the chamber, now known to be between 580AD and 605AD, rules out that it contained King Saebert, as previously thought. Experts now believe his brother, Prince Saexa, was the one given such a grand send-off. Royal families emerged in Anglo-Saxon times in Kent, Essex and across south-east England.  Saebert and Seaxa's mother was from the Kentish royal family, but their maternal aunt, Bertha, was a French princess who married into their royal family and brought her Christian beliefs with her. That may explain the gold crosses on the prince's eyes and the coins in the chamber, which are clearly Christian, while the very idea of a burial chamber is Pagan. It also contains the remnants of a stringed musical instrument called a lyre and a 1,400-year-old painted wooden box with decorations thought to show a ladder and fish scales. Gold braiding suggests the body had a cloth over his head. The sword, shield and spears in the chamber, the body's pristine golden buckle and an eastern Mediterranean flagon from a Christian pilgrimage site are the evidence that the man buried inside was a member of the royal family, who received expensive gifts from overseas. But he may still have been young, with Mrs Jackson adding: 'This man may have died before he could really prove himself, as we would have expected more bling in the site.' Some of the artefacts will be displayed at an exhibition at Central Museum in Southend which opens to the public on May 11.   
