christianity
{ By Daniel Piotrowski for Daily Mail Australia    Published:  08:02, 8 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7004801/Mark-Latham-introduce-new-freedom-speech-laws-wake-Israel-Folau-saga.html }
Mark Latham has announced he will push for new freedom of speech laws in the wake of controversy surrounding rugby player Israel Folau, as he criticised 'white privilege' and the 'LGBTQIWTF alphabet' in his maiden parliamentary speech.    The former Labor leader was elected to the New South Wales Upper House last month after joining Pauline Hanson's One Nation party in a remarkable political comeback.  Mr Latham today stood in the NSW Legislative Council and vowed to attack pervasive political correctness which he says doesn't represent mainstream Australia.  'I believe that no Australian should live in fear of the words they utter,' Mr Latham said on the floor of Parliament on Wednesday afternoon, before throwing his lot in with the embattled Christian footballer. 'I stand with Israel Folau'.  He claimed schools had become 'gender fluidity factories', argued the transgender community has too much influence and vowed there will be 'no surrender' in his efforts to try 'take back our country'.   In his speech, the new One Nation recruit said he was standing by Folau despite being on the footballer's lengthy list of sinners 'more than once'.  'In (Folau's) own private time away from his job playing football, he's a preacher at his community church and naturally, he quotes the Bible,' he said.  'He believes, as millions of people have believed for thousands of years, that sinners go to Hell.  'As per his valid religious faith, he loves the sinner but condemns the sin. Yet for his beliefs, his Christianity, he is not allowed to play rugby, to chase the pigskin around the park. 'How did our State and our nation ever come to this?' Mr Latham railed against 'big companies, the corporate PC-elites' wanting to 'control all aspects of their employees' lives - their religious and political views, how they speak and think, how they behave, even in their own time away from the work place.'  He said he would be moving legislation for the protection of free speech, religious freedom and the rights of workers, but did not delve into specifics.  ...WHITE PRIVILEGE 'When I was first elected to Federal Parliament in 1994, if you had asked me: Who typically is the neediest person in your electorate, the one you are trying to help as a Labor MP, I would have said: A white working class man living in one of Campbelltown's public housing estates who had been restructured out of manufacturing work in the '80s and now faces the indignity of long-term unemployment and welfare dependency. 'How silly of me. How little did I know. 'Now I'm told he was an example of White Male Privilege, that the bum out of his pants was actually a rainbow shot up his backside.'  ...GENDER ISSUES:  'With few exceptions, people are born either male or female. 'We shouldn't be confusing young people and risking their mental health by pushing gender fluidity upon them. 'We shouldn't be taking away from parents their essential role as the primary carers of their children – in matters personal and sexual. 'We shouldn't be changing the purpose of our education system: transforming schools from places of skill and academic attainment into gender fluidity factories. 'Most of all, we shouldn't be losing sight of the interests of mainstream, majority Australia.   'In the last national census, for instance, 1300 Australians identified as transgender. 'But to listen to the political and media coverage of this issue, you would think there were 13 million.'  ...FREEDOM OF SPEECH  'We believe NSW needs new laws protecting freedom of speech, especially on university campuses where so much of academic and student freedom has been lost. 'Sometimes we laugh at the absurdity of political correctness but at its core, it's an insidious movement, a handbrake on liberty. 'If you control someone's language, you control a big part of their lives: how they interact with others, how they communicate in society, their feeling of belonging. 'Like every other Australian, I own my own words, I know what I mean by them. 'Like so many Australians, I refuse to allow my words to be controlled by strangers: by the elites with their confected outrage and PC-censorship. 'In truth in society, offence is taken, not given. 'It's a personal choice, based on assumptions about what someone meant by their words. 'Yet only the person speaking those words truly knows what was meant. 'As the great John Cleese has pointed out, telling a joke about someone doesn't mean we hate them. ... DEVELOPMENT AND WESTERN SYDNEY AIRPORT  'The government talks about it like it's a cross between Silicon Valley and Disneyland.  'But it's looming as just another excuse for urban sprawl and under-servicing.  'The government says it's building a new city the size of Adelaide, with 1.3 million people. 'Yet remarkably, there are no plans for a new public hospital, only a so-called 'integrated health facility' servicing less than 20 percent of the proposed population. 'Adelaide has four public hospitals. The Aerotropolis: None. 'I say to the government: fix this problem. 'It's a huge priority for One Nation. 'You're creating the youth capital of Australia between Penrith and Camden. 'It needs not only a new public hospital but also a specialist children's hospital to cope with rapid population growth.' ... EDUCATION: '(The government is) still committed to young people learning the alphabet, but it's the LGBTQIWTF version. 'The rot set in under (former education minister Adrian) Piccoli, who amazingly, became a mouthpiece for the Teachers Federation. 'He broke the golden rule of sound education policy in this State: when the Teachers Federation says something needs to be done, do the opposite. 'Through a loss of academic standards, testing and grading, NSW's school results are going backwards compared to other States and other countries. 'There's no one thing that's gone wrong in the education system. 'What we are experiencing is system failure: multiple problems feeding off each other, a downward spiral in standards and outcomes.'    Mr Latham's 2GB Radio ally Alan Jones - considered one of Australia's best orators and himself a former speechwriter to prime minister Malcolm Fraser - gave the speech text a gushing review this morning.  'This may well be the most outstanding political speech I have ever read, and I'm a hard marker,' he told listeners.  But not everyone was as blown away by Mr Latham's speech as Jones. Greens parliamentarian Cate Faehrmann tweeted a running commentary. 'Now Alan Jone (sic) has just walked into the Legislative Council chamber to sit in the Presidents Gallery to watch Mark Latham’s 1st speech.  'You can’t make this s*** up.' Ms Hanson has said she will Mr Latham a long leash.  'That's up to them, how they decide to actually want to represent the state ... I don't tell Mark what to do,' she told the Australian Associated Press.   
