christianity
{ By Daily Mail Australia Reporter   Published:  00:35, 8 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7003757/Muslim-feminist-Dr-Susan-Carland-reveals-surprising-link-Christianity-Islam.html }
Feminist academic Dr. Susan Carland converted to Islam from Christianity at age 19, despite once believing the religion was 'barbaric, outdated and sexist'. And in the spirit of Ramadan, the 40-year-old university lecturer shared a post to Instagram on Wednesday about the surprising links between Christianity and Islam. Susan, who is married to The Project host Waleed Aly, shared a list of prophets who appear in both the Holy Bible and the Quran. 'The first prophet of Islam is Adam - yup, the same one in the Bible,' Susan wrote in the thought-provoking post. 'Muslims also believe in Noah, Moses, David, Solomon, Jonah, John, and many other biblical prophets, and their stories appear in the Qur'an.' She added the hashtag, '#ThingsYouMayNotKnowAboutIslam.'  In 2016, Melbourne-born Susan recalled the life-changing moment she began to question her Christian upbringing at age 17.  'Was it because I genuinely believed it to be true or was it because it was what I was raised to believe?' she told The Australian Women's Weekly. She decided to research other religions and did not immediately connect with Islam. 'I thought, why would anyone want to be part of a barbaric, outdated, sexist religion?' she said candidly. The mother-of-two was later drawn to Islam's 'emphasis on social justice' and converted to the religion two years later, despite her mother's 'hesitations'.  It comes after the Monash University academic made attempts to unite the Melbourne community in March, following the deadly terror attacks in Christchurch. Susan attended a mosque open day at Benevolence Australia in Melbourne, where people of all faiths were invited.  On its website, Benevolence is described as 'a welcoming and inclusive space for spiritual growth'. According to an official Facebook account, this year's mosque open day at Benevolence was designed 'to provide a space for the Muslim community to gather together in this time of grief, and offer an opportunity for the wider community to engage in conversation on anything of topical interest, including themes of faith and contemporary issues, to unite and strengthen our shared humanity.'  Susan previously shared her views on body image during a discussion about the hijab. 'There are some women who say [wearing the hijab] is a feminist statement,' she told Meshel Laurie on The Nitty Gritty Committee podcast.  'In a society where women's bodies are used to sell everything from toothpaste to cars, [for those women] covering [their] body is about… saying, "I'll decide who sees my body".' She continued: 'And what parts they get to see by wearing a hijab and covering my body, I'm choosing to not have my body commodified in that way.'  
