christianity
{ By Ben Hill For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:10, 7 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7000199/Old-fashioned-photo-technique-reveals-Maori-people-look-like-without-facial-tattoos.html }
Incredible photographs developed using old-fashioned techniques have revealed what people would look like without their distinctive facial tattoos. New Zealand photographer Michael Bradley used the wet plate collodion developing process made popular in the 1800s on photos of Maori people with 'ta moko' facial markings. Mr Bradley said he had been experimenting with the wet plate method when he noticed certain tattoos appeared to fade away in the images. 'I noticed that the green, blue shades looked like they were most likely to disappear, especially on someone with slightly darker skin, and this sparked the idea,' he told PetaPixel. He also noticed that photos of people with ta moko taken in the 1800s using the wet plate technique barely showed their tattoos. Mr Bradley took a series of photographs of Maori men and women for his portrait project called Puaki. Puaki is a Maori word meaning 'to come forth, show itself, open out, emerge'.  The wet plate collodion technique is a 'slow and laborious process', Mr Bradley said. Wet plate collodion photography requires photos to be coated, sensitised, exposed and developed within 15 minutes, and is done in a dark room. Collodion is a syrupy solution of pyroxylin in ether or alcohol. Collodion is spread on glass or tin plates, dipped in silver nitrate and exposed to ultraviolet light. Used on clear glass, the process produces a negative image that can be used to make prints. Black backing is added to make a positive image.  He took photos of 48 people with ta moko using a digital camera and then took others on an 85-year-old wooden camera, developed using the wet plate method. The photographs displayed side by side reveal what the subjects would look like without their facial tattoos. Mr Bradley said he hopes to tell the story of ta moko and the practice's connection to Maori culture through his project. 'The problem is, when photographs of ta moko were originally taken in the 1850s, the tattoos barely showed up at all,' he said. 'The wet plate photographic method used by European settlers served to erase this cultural marker - and as the years went by, this proved true in real life, too. 'The ancient art of ta moko was increasingly suppressed as Maori were assimilated into the colonial world.' The wet plate collodion technique is a 'slow and laborious process', Mr Bradley said. 'It involves the pouring of collodion onto a glass plate, before it is bathed in silver nitrate, loaded into a wooden camera, the photograph taken and developed in another potent mix of chemicals,' he said. 'This photographic technique was in use during the time New Zealand was first colonised, from the 1850s until around the 1870s.' Michael Bradley's Puaki exhibition was shown at Waitangi Museum in New Zealand in 2018 and will be shown at various galleries and museums both in New Zealand and overseas. Ta moko has undergone significant changes since its practice was disrupted through colonisation and the adoption of Christianity in the mid-19th century. Missionaries, and white people generally, perceived it as a distasteful practice, even while being somewhat fascinated by it. The Western and Eastern Pacific method of tattooing is based on the use of broad-toothed combs of varying widths called uhi, dipped in dark pigment, and struck into the skin with small mallets known as ta. The facial tattoos may also indicate social status, role, and expressions of identity though genealogy. Source: Te Papa, Museum of New Zealand  
