christianity
{ By Reuters   Published:  12:54, 6 May 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-6997233/Pope-Francis-urges-Bulgaria-not-close-hearts-refugees.html }
Pope Francis has urged Bulgarians not to 'close their hearts' to migrants and refugees, in a direct challenge to the country's right-leaning government.  The 82-year-old pontiff said the plight of suffering migrants was the 'cross of humanity' to bear as he visited a refugee centre in Bulgaria's capital, Sofia.  His comments put him at odds with Bulgaria's government which has built a fence along its border with Turkey.  It has also stepped up controls on its border with Greece, and urged the EU to close its external borders to migrants and set up refugee centres outside the bloc.  Francis said: 'Today, the world of migrants and refugees is a bit like a cross, the cross of humanity, a cross that many people suffer.'  Shortly after his arrival in Bulgaria on Sunday, he urged government leaders directly to 'not close your eyes, your hearts or your hands, in accordance with your best tradition, to those who knock at your door'.  Bulgaria 'must deal with a the demographic winter that has descended like an ice curtain on a large part of Europe, the consequence of a diminished confidence in the future,' he warned.  He urged Bulgaria 'to strive to create conditions that lead young people to invest their youthful energies and plan their future, as individuals and families, knowing that in their homeland they can have the possibility of leading a dignified life.'  The pontiff later flew to Rakovski in southern Bulgaria, a predominantly Roman Catholic town in the overwhelmingly Eastern Orthodox country, to say a mass.   An organiser at the refugee centre told the Pope that people of all faiths, including many Muslims, had volunteered to help the migrants.  Bulgaria, the EU's poorest country, has taken an anti-immigrant stance even though it has a rapidly ageing population and a low birth rate.  More than two million Bulgarians have left the country since the fall of communism in 1989 in search of better opportunities in western Europe and beyond. General dissatisfaction over slow economic growth, security threats posed by Islamist militants and a backlash against migration across open EU borders have boosted support for eurosceptic nationalists in many EU member states. One purpose of the pope's three-day trip to Bulgaria and North Macedonia is to improve ties with the Orthodox churches.  The mission is part of the Vatican's push for eventual unity between the Eastern and Western branches of Christianity that split in 1054.  The Bulgarian Orthodox community is one of the most hardline in relations with the Vatican.  It is the only one to have boycotted the recent meetings of the official Orthodox-Catholic dialogue.  
