christianity
{ By Alison Bevege For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:34, 29 April 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-6970529/Top-gay-netballer-praises-Maria-Folau-supporting-marriage-slams-rugby-husband.html }
One of Australia's first openly gay netball stars, Ashleigh Brazill, has spoken of Silver Ferns star Maria Folau's gracious support when she married her partner. Maria Folau, one of New Zealand's highest profile netballers, is married to devout Christian rugby player Israel Folau, who controversially posted on Instagram that God's plan for gay people was 'HELL'. Brazill, who plays for the Collingwood Magpies in Super Netball and in the AFLW, slammed Folau's public condemnation of gay people, saying those in the public eye were fortunate to have a platform. 'It's disappointing when people use that in a negative way,' she said. Israel Folau, a Wallabies superstar and fullback for the NSW Waratahs, said homosexuals would go to 'HELL' unless they 'repent their sins' in a comment on Instagram on April 4.  He was heavily criticised for his prejudiced comments but did not back down, instead repeating on social media that 'those that are living in sin will end up in hell unless you repent'.  Rugby Australia considered terminating his contract, publicly saying that while Israel was entitled to his religious beliefs, the way he expressed them is inconsistent with the values of the sport. 'We want to make it clear that he does not speak for the game with his recent social media posts,' Rugby Australia said in a statement.  Brazill told The Saturday Paper how devastating that would have been for her if he had been her idol as a young sportswoman. 'I think about how I would have felt as a 17-year-old if my idol [Australia's most-capped netballer, Liz Ellis] had written that,' Brazill said. 'It would have broken me.'  Brazill married her partner Brooke Grieves three years ago in Western Australia, before same-sex marriage was legalised in Australia 2017. Maria Folau, also a Christian and one of netball's most respected players, was gracious and supportive, congratulating her at the time.  'I can only talk about the way Maria's been with me and she's always been lovely,' Brazill said. 'When Brooke and I got married I got a message off her saying congratulations, and she liked all the [social media] posts.'       
