christianity
{ By Ariel Zilber For Dailymail.com   Published:  06:59, 25 April 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-6957921/Jewish-official-blasts-Ilhan-Omar-New-York-Times-promoting-notion-Jesus-Palestinian.html }
A Jewish organization criticized Democratic Congresswoman Ilhan Omar and The New York Times on Wednesday for promoting the notion that Jesus was Palestinian. Rabbi Abraham Cooper of the Simon Wiesenthal Center reacted angrily to Omar’s retweet on April 20 of a professor at Southern Methodist University. ‘I was once asked by a relative who is a Palestinian Christian why the Christian right in America largely supports their oppression,’ tweeted Omar Suleiman, an adjunct professor for Islamic Studies. ‘Don’t they know we’re Christians too? Do they even consider us human? ‘Don’t they know Jesus was a Palestinian?’ Suleiman was referring to Israel's occupation of the Palestinian West Bank, which it captured in the 1967 Six-Day War.  Cooper also took issue with an op-ed in the Times written by Eric V. Copage. The op-ed, which was printed on Good Friday, bore the headline: ‘As a Black Child in Los Angeles, I Couldn’t Understand Why Jesus Had Blue Eyes.’ The passage by Copage which angered Cooper read: ‘As I grew older, I learned that the fair-skinned, blue-eyed depiction of Jesus has for centuries adorned stained glass windows and altars in churches throughout the United States and Europe. ‘But Jesus, born in Bethlehem, was most likely a Palestinian man with dark skin.’ Cooper slammed Omar and the Times, telling the Jewish Journal of Greater Los Angeles that it was a ‘grotesque insult to Jesus born in the land of Israel and to Christianity’ to suggest that he was a Palestinian. ‘Palestine was a name made up by Romans after they crucified thousands, destroyed the Holy Temple in Jerusalem and exiled the People of Israel from their homeland,’ Cooper said. Just three months after she was sworn in as one of two freshman Muslim congresswomen, Omar has been a lightning rod of controversy for comments deemed by some to be anti-Semitic. Last week, it was learned that two Democrats refused to accept donations from Omar because of her controversial remarks about Israel. Dan McCready, who is running for the vacant House seat from North Carolina’s Ninth Congressional District, confirmed on Twitter that he returned a $2,000 donation to Omar on March 30. Omar made the donation to McCready on November 6, according to WSOC-TV. McCready tweeted: ‘Some folks are asking why I directed the return of Rep. Omar’s donation. ‘I did this weeks ago because I vigorously disagree with any anti-semitic comments. ‘Since this time, dangerous and hateful attacks have started against her. ‘I condemn in the strongest terms the hateful rhetoric against her, the Muslim community and people of color. ‘Too many have been hurt by our broken politics. ‘We must end hate speech against all people and groups.’ McCready is running in a special election later this year for the vacant seat. In November, he ran and lost to Republican Mark Harris, but state officials refused to certify the result because of massive voter fraud. Another Democrat, House Rep Lucy McBath of Georgia, also refused to accept a $2,000 campaign contribution from the Minnesota congresswoman. The campaign told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution that it rejected the donation, though no reason was given. McBath, who represents Georgia’s Sixth Congressional District, includes areas that have relatively dense Jewish populations. Omar divided Democrats with her claim, later retracted, that moneyed Jews buy the support of U.S. lawmakers with a strategy that's 'all about the Benjamins baby.'  Then she reignited the controversy again when she said supporters of Israel were pushing for U.S. politicians to declare 'allegiance' to that nation.  A battle broke out between the older, powerful, more moderate Jewish members of Congress who accused Omar of anti-Semitism and the younger, progressive members who have stormed the House floor after the 2018 election and defended Omar's right to speak.  But all Omar's controversies have had one thing in common: they have brought the wrath of Republicans on to the Democrats.    Her latest controversy involved statements she made which were perceived by Republicans as downplaying the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.  Omar referred to the 9/11 attacks in passing during a speech before an American Muslim group, saying  'some people did something.'   Earlier this month, President Trump said he would not apologize to Omar for the criticism he's heaped on her after her 9/11 comments, saying she's 'been very disrespectful to this country,' as Speaker Nancy Pelosi accused him of using the September 11 terror attacks as a 'political tool.' 'No not at all,' the president said when asked if he had any second thoughts about a video he tweeted that the Minnesota Democrat claimed increased death threats on her life.  'Look, she's been very disrespectful to this country. She's been very disrespectful, frankly, to Israel. She is somebody that doesn't really understand life. Real life, what it's all about,' he told KSTP, a Minneapolis TV station, during his visit to Minnesota earlier this month. 'It's unfortunate. She's got a way about her that's very, very bad, I think, for our country. I think she's extremely unpatriotic and extremely disrespectful to our country,' he added.  On his Twitter feed, Trump posted a video showing footage of the 9/11 attacks interspersed with clips of Omar's speech.  The video in question was pinned to the top of Trump's Twitter page but is now just in its regular spot in his feed.  'WE WILL NEVER FORGET' he tweeted last week, accompanied by a 43 second video that showed Omar's comment during a speech to the Council of American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), interspersed with footage from September 11, 2001.  In her full speech to CAIR last month - the footage surfaced last week - Omar said: 'Far too long we have lived with the discomfort of being a second-class citizen and frankly, I'm tired of it and every single Muslim in this country should be tired of it. 'CAIR was founded after 9/11 because they recognized that some people did something, and that all of us were starting to lose access to our civil liberties.' Since the controversial comments resurfaced, Omar has defended what she said, using an example of George W. Bush making similar remarks in the wake of the tragedy and marking the difference in reaction. Omar has said the furor surrounding the comments - which she believes were taken out of context - stem from the fact that she is Muslim, and not white. 'Was Bush downplaying the terrorist attack? What if he was a Muslim,' she asked on Twitter.    Omar, a 36-year-old freshman Democrat and mother of three, said the president's tweets led to an increase of death threats, specifically a video he sent out on April 12. 'Since the president's tweet Friday evening, I have experienced an increase in direct threats on my life – many directly referencing or replying to the President's video,' Omar said in a statement from April 14. 'Violent rhetoric and all forms of hate speech have no place in our society, much less from our country's Commander in Chief. We are all Americans. This is endangering lives. It has to stop,' she said.     
