christianity
{ By Brittany Chain For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  17:25, 22 April 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-6947349/Fraser-Anning-sends-series-insensitive-tweets.html }
Queensland Senator Fraser Anning has sparked controversy once again after blaming the terrorist attacks in Sri Lanka on 'Islamic populations creating violence'. In a series of Tweets on Monday night, the senator responded to the deaths of nearly 300 people, including Australian mother Manik Suriaaratchi and her daughter, Alexandria, 10, in coordinated explosions on Easter Sunday. Suicide bombers targeted three churches, three luxury hotels, and a guesthouse, with authorities finding and disposing of another explosive at the airport later the same day.  The tweets mark the second time the politician has used a terror attack to comment on Islamic immigration, following similar statements made after the Christchurch mosque attacks last month. 'I was right all along. Islamic populations do indeed create violence,' he said. He went on to warn Australians they would suffer for not taking a stance sooner, and implied people should stand up against Muslim immigration for the safety of their children.  'I am WARNING that if we continue to import Muslims into our country we will have more terrorist attacks, as has been proven time and time again,' he said. 'Take my advice if you want to ensure the safety of your children and a future for our nation's people.  'Ignore it, and face death.' He then referenced 17-year-old Will Connolly, questioning 'where is egg boy now?' The teen smashed an egg on Anning's head during a speech after the senator blamed Muslim immigration for terror attacks at two New Zealand mosques in March that left 50 Muslims dead. At the time, Senator Anning said: 'The real cause of bloodshed on New Zealand streets today is the immigration program which allowed Muslim fanatics to migrate to New Zealand in the first place. 'Let us be clear, while Muslims may have been the victims today, usually they are the perpetrators. World-wide, Muslims are killing people in the name of their faith on an industrial scale,' he said.  In the latest thread, he again referenced his belief that Muslims are generally the perpetrators of violence.  'What I said and has been proven completely true is that Islamic populations when they increase in number will result in an increase in violence.  'I also said during Christchurch, that whilst Muslims had been the victims, Muslims are usually the perpetrators in terrorist attacks.   'Truly devastating news about the terrorist attack in Sri Lanka. Once again, Islamic terrorists are responsible.  'We can no longer bury our heads in the sand about Islam. This cannot be swept under the rug.  'I was right all along. Islamic populations do indeed create violence. 'Where is the world coming together for Christianity after almost 300 are dead and churches bombed in Sri Lanka?  'This is one of the largest Islamic terrorist attacks ever, and yet the mainstream media is far less outraged compared to during the Christchurch shootings. 'Christianophobia and Islamic supremacy needs to be condemned worldwide.  'The utter hypocrisy from our traitorous politicians since this attack has unfolded, shows they are more interested in bowing down to Islam and destroying Christian Europeans then ensuring public safety.   'Almost 300 dead due to Islamic terrorists in Sri Lanka. Where is egg boy now? 'What I said and has been proven completely true is that Islamic populations when they increase in number will result in an increase in violence.  'I also said during Christchurch, that whilst Muslims had been the victims, Muslims are usually the perpetrators in terrorist attacks. 'I am WARNING that if we continue to import Muslims into our country we will have more terrorist attacks, as has been proven time and time again.  'Take my advice if you want to ensure the safety of your children and a future for our nation's people.  'Ignore it, and face death.' Source: Twitter 
