christianity
{ By Henry Martin For Mailonline   Published:  09:44, 22 April 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-6946433/Post-colonial-guilt-stops-UK-helping-persecuted-Christians-world-says-bishop.html }
A feeling of 'post-colonial guilt' and the idea that following Jesus is 'an expression of white western privilege' has hampered the UK in helping persecuted Christians, a bishop says. The Right Rev Philip Mounstephen, the Bishop of Truro, said Britain had 'something of a blind spot to the persecution of Christians', adding there was a 'real reluctance to see a religious component' in some parts of the world suffering with violence.  In an interview with The Times, before the Easter Sunday Sri Lanka bombings, the bishop, 59, said: 'There is a lot of post-colonial guilt around a residual sense that the Christian faith is an expression of white western privilege.  'Whereas actually the Christian faith is overwhelmingly a phenomenon of the . . . global poor and people who, by their very socio-economic status, are vulnerable.' Mounstephen has been tasked with researching the extent of oppression faced by the Christian faithful around the world and critiquing the Foreign Office's response. The bishop, who taught for four years in a rural comprehensive school in Oxfordshire before his ordination, will publish the first part of his findings next week before a full version is due in June.  The Open Doors UK charity reported earlier this year that 245million Christians face severe persecution worldwide.  Yesterday Theresa May vowed to launch a global review into the persecution of Christians, following the bombings in Sri Lanka, which saw 207 people - including five Britons - dead and more than 450 wounded.  Last week Anglican and Catholic leaders jointly called for the UK to increase its commitment to saving Christians from an 'unprecedented' level of persecution.  The Prime Minister said: 'For many Christians around the world, such simple acts of faith can bring huge danger. 'Churches have been attacked. Christians murdered. Families forced to flee their homes. 'That is why the Government has launched a global review into the persecution of Christians. 'We must stand up for the right of everyone, no matter what their religion, to practise their faith in peace.' Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt also expressed the UK's 'solidarity' with persecuted Christians around the world, following the bombings.  He said: 'To target those gathered for the simple act of worship on Easter Sunday is unspeakably wicked. 'Everyone has a right to practise their faith in peace, safety and security but tragedies like this, and the one in Christchurch, remind us that there are some who hate these rights and freedoms. 'These despicable acts were carried out at a time when millions of Christians celebrate Easter while living under the shadow of persecution. Many gather in churches at risk of attack; countless more will have suffered threats or discrimination. 'The UK stands in solidarity with persecuted Christians around the world and with the government and people of Sri Lanka. My prayers are with all the victims and their families.'   Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn used his Easter message to say Christ's experiences as a refugee are 'still familiar to us today', and the current migration crisis is a 'moral test' for politicians. The Foreign Office has said that the UK's foreign policy has 'not always reflected the suffering of persecuted Christians'.  The Coptic Orthodox Archbishop of London, Archbishop Anba Angaelos, told The Times in another interview that as Christianity is seen as the state religion in the UK, it is perceived as a beneficiary or source of power - but Christians around the world suffer poverty, deprivation and even threats to their lives due to their faith.   
