christianity
{ By Brian Marks For Dailymail.com   Published:  05:43, 22 April 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-6946083/Selena-Gomez-beaming-ear-ear-attends-Easter-service-friend-Los-Angeles.html }
She had a low-key night out for sushi in Malibu with friends on Saturday. On Sunday, Selena Gomez was looking fresh and invigorated for an Easter trip to Hillsong Church in Los Angeles. The 26-year-old Spring Breakers star was accompanied by a friend and met other familiar faces outside the packed service. The 5ft5in Hotel Transylvania actress opted for a comfy casual look for the holiday.  She had on a loose-fitting beige sweater and paired it with some relaxed acid wash jeans.  Her raven locks were parted down the middle and held back in a low bun, with a few wavy strands showcasing her face, which was minimally made up to highlight her clear skin.  Selena wore a pair of tasteful black heels with the casual outfit. The former Disney Channel star is a longtime attendee of Hillsong, which features locations in LA and New York City. Though the church is famous for appealing to open-minded millennials, it practices a conservative form of evangelical Christianity.  In a 2015 blog post, the church's founder, Brian Houston, explicitly stated the church's position on gay congregants. 'Put clearly, we do not affirm a gay lifestyle and because of this we do not knowingly have actively gay people in positions of leadership...' Celebrities like Chris Pratt and members of the Kardashian–Jenner Clan can often be seen attended services at Hillsong, among other famous names.  It's also a favorite spot of Selena's ex-boyfriend Justin Bieber, though he tends to go to the New York City location. The Sorry singer has been spotted with Hillsong pastor Carl Lentz numerous times in recent months as he sought spiritual assistance in his battle with depression and anxiety.  Selena looked rested and happy to see friends at the packed service. Though she's had a number of health issues in recent years, including a Lupus diagnosis that necessitated a kidney transplant in 2017, she looked to be in great spirits. A night out with her girlfriends for high-end sushi at Malibu's Nobu probably didn't hurt either. She was seen at the swanky Japanese restaurant on Saturday as she eschewed the Coachella craziness affecting much of Southern California. That said, she didn't make an unannounced guest appearance for the music festival's first weekend. Selena surprised fans when she joined Cardi B and Ozuna to perform their hit track Taki Taki. It marked her first public performance this year, the last since she made a guest appearance at a Taylor Swift concert in Los Angeles in 2018.  Though she hasn't performed lately, she'll be making her debut at the Cannes Film Festival this year when she stars in Jim Jarmusch's star-packed zombie comedy The Dead Don't Die. 
