{ By Emily Goodin, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com and Wires   Published:  20:45, 23 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7922393/Trump-invites-Netanyahu-US-peace-plan-talks.html }
Donald Trump will release his long awaited Middle Peace plan by Tuesday of next week - the same day he invited Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his main election rival Benny Gantz to the White House. The president said Thursday he will release the plan, which has been spear-headed by his son-in-law Jared Kushner, before that meeting. 'Sometime prior to that,' he told reporters traveling with him to Florida on Air Force One. 'Probably we'll release it a little bit prior to that.'  He noted he was glad Netanyahu and Gantz were coming - despite the fierce election battle going on between them. Vice President Mike Pence extended the invitation to the Israeli leaders when he was in Jerusalem for the Fifth World Holocaust Forum. 'I was surprised that both of them came off the campaign trail,' Trump said. 'We have both candidates coming — unheard of.' He was optimistic he could get the Middle East deal done.  'I'd love to be able to do that deal. They say that's the hardest of all deals,' he said. 'I love doing deals.' 'It's a great plan. It's a plan that really would work,' he added.   Trump spoke positively of the plan - the details of which have been shrouded in secrecy - and said he believed it could work.  He also had spoken to the Palestinians 'briefly.' Palestinian leaders have objected tot he plan. 'We've spoken to them briefly. But we will speak to them in a period of time,' he said. 'And they have a lot of incentive to do it. I'm sure they maybe will react negatively at first but it's actually very positive for them.'  Netanyahu and Gantz will be at the White House Tuesday, as Trump's Senate impeachment trial is ongoing.  'President Trump asked me to extend an invitation to Prime Minister Netanyahu to come to the White House next week to discuss regional issues, as well as the prospect of peace here in the Holy Land', Pence said. Netanyahu told Pence: 'I think that the president is seeking to give Israel the peace and security it deserves,' adding that he 'gladly' accepted the invitation. 'Thank you for what your administration does every day... We have no better friend than President Trump,' he said at the meeting at the US embassy in Jerusalem. Palestinian leaders have however dismissed the U.S. peace initiative as one-sided. They say it fails to address their wish to end Israeli occupation and the expansion, encouraged by Netanyahu, of Jewish settlements on Palestinian land. On Thursday the Palestinian Authority reiterated its rejection of the US peace plan. 'We stress once again our categorical rejection of the American decisions,' a spokesman for Palestinian Authority president Mahmud Abbas said in a statement. Trump has slashed aid to the Palestinians, while making big concessions to the Israelis, including formalising U.S. recognition of the divided city of Jerusalem as the Israeli capital. His concept for ending the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is believed to revolve around encouraging massive economic investment. As caretaker premier Netanyahu faces new elections on March 2 against Gantz, of the centrist Blue and White party. Trump, whose team has long been working on the outlines of such a plan, has repeatedly boasted that he is the most pro-Israeli U.S. president in history. After many postponements, Trump's peace initiative to end the Israeli-Palestinian conflict was expected in the autumn, after inconclusive elections were held in September. Netanyahu said: 'With such friends in the White House ... we should get as broad a consensus as possible around the efforts to achieve security and peace for the state of Israel.' More than two years after President Trump first proposed a plan to revive the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, it lies stalled half in and half out of the starting blocks. Little has so far been revealed about the plan which will have to address issues that have defied decades of efforts by previous peacemakers. These issues include: -The status of Jerusalem - which includes sites sacred to Judaism, Islam and Christianity -Establishing mutually agreed borders. -Finding security arrangements to satisfy Israel´s fears of attacks by Palestinians and hostile neighbours. -The Palestinian demand for statehood, and an end to Israel's occupation of Palestinian territory. -Finding a solution to the plight of millions of Palestinian refugees. -Arrangements to share scarce natural resources, such as water. -Palestinian demands that Israel remove its settlements in the West Bank and east Jerusalem. More than 400,000 Israelis now live among roughly 3 million Palestinians in the West Bank, with another 200,000 settlers in east Jerusalem. Why revive the plan now? U.S.-Israeli relations are at a zenith, with Trump and Netanyahu the closest of allies. Both men face domestic troubles: Trump will likely be accused of trying to deflect attention away from his impeachment trial and Netanyahu was indicted on corruption charges in November, throwing him into legal limbo. Both men deny wrongdoing. And both face election campaigns - Trump for re-election, and Netanyahu because he failed to put together a governing coalition in two elections last year. What do we know about the plan? Palestinian and Arab sources who have been briefed on the draft plan fear that it seeks to bribe Palestinians into accepting Israeli occupation, a prelude to Israel annexing about half of the West Bank. Perhaps reflecting the business background of Trump and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, the plan's principal author, the first phase of the peace proposal was launched at an economic conference in Bahrain last June. It called for a $50 billion investment fund to boost the Palestinian and neighbouring Arab state economies. Kushner said he believed a deal could unlock prosperity for the Palestinians, and security for Israel. What are the plan's chances? Expectations are low. The last peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians collapsed in 2014. The elephant in the room is the two-state solution - the long-standing international formula to bring about peace by creating an independent Palestinian state living side-by-side with Israel. The United Nations and most nations around the world back the two-state solution, and it has underpinned every peace plan for decades. But the Trump administration has consistently refused to back the two-state solution. And in November it reversed decades of U.S. policy, when Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced that the U.S. no longer viewed Israel´s settlements on West Bank land as 'inconsistent with international law'. Palestinians and most of the international community view the settlements as illegal under international law. Israel disputes this, citing historical, biblical and political ties to the land, as well as its security needs. Netanyahu has announced that he intends to annex all the settlements as well as most of the Jordan Valley, the strategic and fertile easternmost strip of the West Bank. Palestinians argue that the Jordan Valley, nearly 30 per cent of the West Bank, would be a vital part of their future state, as the breadbasket of the West Bank and its external border with Jordan. Can the U.S. be a broker? Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas has said Washington can no longer be regarded as a mediator in any peace talks with Israel. Since his election, Trump has made a series of moves that have delighted Israel but infuriated Palestinians. These include his 2017 decision to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, and to move the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. The Palestinians fear the Trump plan will dash their hopes for an independent state in the West Bank, east Jerusalem and the Gaza Strip - territories Israel captured in 1967. Abbas, whose Palestinian Authority exercises limited self-rule in the West Bank, has refused to engage politically with the Trump administration. 
