christianity
{ By Brian Viner For The Daily Mail   Published:  00:59, 19 April 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-6938571/She-USSRs-unlikely-spy-shame-dreary-drama-Red-Joan-omits-truth.html }
Red Joan (12A) Verdict: Bridge of Spies it ain't Greta (15) Verdict: Silly, unthrilling thriller Red Joan is a dishonest film with a dishonest title. It is ‘inspired’ by the admittedly astonishing story of Melita Norwood, who was a frail 87-year-old widow when, in 1999, she was revealed to have worked for decades as a Soviet spy. By that time, Norwood was a mildly eccentric great-grandmother living out her days, it seemed irreproachably, in the South-East London suburb of Bexleyheath. Yet from 1937 to 1972, while working for the British Non-Ferrous Metals Research Association, she had habitually passed her country’s atomic secrets to Moscow.  Norwood, a committed lifelong Communist, is said to have been a more useful spy to the Kremlin than the so-called Cambridge Five. Her double-life and eventual exposure are certainly worth dramatising, although this film is two removes from its source material, for it is based on a novel that fictionalised Norwood’s story, calling her Joan Stanley. I haven’t read the book, so I don’t know how closely it adheres to the truth. Alas, the film and the truth are barely on nodding terms.  Even the title is disingenuous. Far from being ideologically ‘red’, Joan (played in old age by Dame Judi Dench, and in her younger incarnation by Sophie Cookson) is presented here as only mildly pink. The real Melita Norwood drank from a mug bearing a picture of Che Guevara, a small detail the film-makers are careful to include. But why Joan does so is anyone’s guess. Perhaps she thinks it’s a David Essex mug. At any rate, when she is hauled out of her neat suburban house to be interrogated by MI5, and later questioned by the media, her rock-hard, iron-clad belief in Communism is cited by nobody, least of all herself, as the motivation for her treachery. That, you see, is because Joan is not a Communist, but a humanitarian. She wanted Russia to have the atom bomb purely to ensure global harmony, so that the two big bullies in the playground might cancel each other out.  Heck, she’s practically a contender for the Nobel Peace Prize. Naturally, Dench acts her bedsocks off in the disappointingly little screen time she gets as Joan, even if her stock activity seems to be gazing wistfully into the middle distance, like someone trying to remember whether she’s taken her day’s supply of vitamin supplements. Cookson, too, is well-cast, looking convincingly like Dench’s character might have in her English-rose youth. But they, and we, are badly let down by the film’s director, Sir Trevor Nunn, and the writer, Lindsay Shapero. Nunn is a colossus of the theatre whose extremely rare forays into the movies have tended to be with play adaptations. On screen, he does not have the directorial sleight of hand to smooth out the many bumps in Shapero’s script, which tries to have it both ways, portraying Joan as a wholesome pacifist guilty of little more than guileless naivety, while at the same time peppering us with Cold War espionage clichés: the secret camera, the park-bench assignations, the incriminating ‘gay-kiss’ photograph exposing the Foreign Office wallah to blackmail. All this comes in a drearily familiar extended-flashback package. In fact, Dench’s wistful gazes are nothing to do with vitamin supplements: every one of them triggers a return to Joan’s salad days, beginning when she was a frightfully bright Cambridge undergraduate in love with a roguishly handsome German- Jewish immigrant called Leo (Tom Hughes). He is also an ardent Communist in the pay of the KGB, so when Joan later gets taken under the wing of a physics professor (Stephen Campbell Moore), who runs a team working on highly classified nuclear stuff, a spot of angry-radical pillow-talk is all it takes to turn her into a traitor. That and a couple of convenient radio broadcasts about the flattening of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. For Joan, as we know by now, is in thrall not just to handsome emigres but also to her own estimable conscience. Indeed, it is so estimable that in due course the professor forgives her for sending detailed information of all his top-secret work to the Soviets, although this is more because he fancies the pants off her. In her old age, her son (Ben Miles) forgives her, too, overcoming the shame he feels when she is first unmasked as a spy, and stoutly defending her in more ways than one, since by a happy coincidence, he is a barrister. All this is far too trite and contrived to add up to much of a spy drama. Melita Norwood doesn’t deserve much from the country she betrayed, but she perhaps does deserve, 14 years after her death, to have inspired a story more compelling and credible, and honest, than this. n FROM red Joan to mad Greta, here’s another cinematic disappointment for Easter weekend: a clunker of a psychological thriller that many of you will already feel well acquainted with, since the trailer that has been running for weeks in cinemas tells pretty much the whole story. In essence, it’s this: a young waitress called Frances (Chloe Grace Moretz), recently arrived in big bad New York City, finds a handbag on the subway. The bag contains the owner’s details; she’s a Frenchwoman called Greta (Isabelle Huppert), and she’s so grateful to Frances for returning her bag that she becomes her surrogate mother, which kind of suits Frances, whose actual mum has only just died. Frances shares an apartment with a college friend, Erica (Maika Monroe), who thinks her burgeoning relationship with Greta is plain weird. Erica is not wrong, and it’s about to get weirder. Greta turns out to be what in less politically correct times we used to call an absolute nutcase. She travels the subway strategically leaving bags, so they will be returned to her by vulnerable young women (how she knows this is never made clear) she can then lure into her creepy house at the end of a dark alley. Director and co-writer Neil Jordan has made plenty of decent films, but this is emphatically not one of them. Huppert is almost always a pleasure to watch, but even she looks stilted in the sort of role that Kathy Bates did much better in the similar, but infinitely superior, 1990 film Misery. Here, misery is what you feel when you realise that it’s all going to get wildly overwrought, and very silly indeed, before you get to go home. Dragged Across Concrete (18) Verdict: Gruesomely long  Writer-director S. Craig Zahler made quite an impact with his 2015 debut feature, a strikingly original, exceedingly gruesome, but mostly compelling Western called Bone Tomahawk. Dragged Across Concrete is also gruesome in parts (especially a sequence that involves a spot of impromptu stomach surgery), and certainly has its compelling moments, but it lasts for a whopping 158 minutes and I left the cinema feeling that it hadn’t been worth the substantial investment of time.  It stars Mel Gibson and Vince Vaughan as a pair of capable detectives, Ridgeman and Anthony, who are suspended without pay when Ridgeman is filmed on someone’s phone being a little too brutal while making an arrest. He is approaching 60, hasn’t been promoted in over 30 years, his wife has multiple sclerosis and his teenage daughter keeps being assaulted by neighbourhood delinquents. The family needs to move to a nicer area. So the embittered Ridgeman decides to use his detective skills to make some money illicitly, and his younger partner Anthony agrees to join him. They prepare to bust a major crime operation, assuming it to be a drugs deal. But it turns out to be a violent armed robbery, leading to a showdown in an isolated parking lot. You wouldn’t think that could take up more than two-and-a-half hours of screen time, but Zahler doesn’t believe in concise storytelling. He likes sub-plots and tangents, and tangents to sub-plots, and above all, he likes dialogue so quirky that one of his detectives keeps saying ‘anchovy’ for no obvious reason. Either he has Tourette’s, or it’s his way of implying something’s fishy. I couldn’t tell which. The problem with quirky dialogue is that if all your main characters indulge in it, then it becomes clear they’re all speaking the same writer’s lines. And when you start being too aware of the unseen writer in a feature film, the on-screen characters are in danger of losing credibility. Despite this, Gibson and Vaughan make a strong double-act, and Tory Kittles, playing one of the criminals, is excellent. Dragged Across Concrete isn’t a bad film, but all too often it feels like a writer-director indulging himself rather than his audience. What has Monty Python’s Life Of Brian ever done for me? Nothing much, apart from delight, amuse, shock and torment me. Torment, because by November 1979, when it was released in the UK, the Brian the Snail gags at school had finally dried up. If you’re old enough, you’ll recall Brian the Snail as an impressionable mollusc on The Magic Roundabout, a hugely popular children’s TV programme which began in 1965, when I was three.  For the next umpteen years I was teased accordingly, but by the time I was 17 I had at last got the wretched snail off my back. Then the Monty Python team, already celebrated for their madcap BBC TV series, went and made a film about an ordinary man in the Galilee area widely mistaken for the son of God.  For some reason, they called him Brian. Suddenly, my name became the object of laughter again. One day, even a teacher, echoing Brian’s mother (shriekingly played by Terry Jones), told me I wasn’t the Messiah, I was a very naughty boy. Still, the ribbing was a fair price to pay for the actual pleasure of seeing Life Of Brian, which has just had a 40th-anniversary re-release.  I first saw it in my home town of Southport on Saturday, March 15, 1980, according to the Lett’s Schoolboy diaries I still have chronicling the, well, you know what. And like everyone else in the audience, I adored it. I can still remember a spontaneous round of applause at the end of the film, after Brian and his fellow crucifixion victims had sung Always Look On The Bright Side Of Life. I’d never heard that before in a British cinema, and have rarely heard it since. Elsewhere, the film’s reception was markedly less enthusiastic. In Norway it didn’t even get a reception, since it was banned altogether, causing the neighbouring Swedes to promote it gleefully under the slogan ‘This film is so funny, they banned it in Norway’. In the United States, where the picture had been out since August, there were marches, protests, boycotts and sit-ins. Across the country, and particularly in the so-called Bible Belt, many cinema managers refused to show it for fear of violent reprisals.  In the New York Post, the conservative columnist William F. Buckley railed against the movie even though he plainly hadn’t seen it (he seemed to think that the final scene featured a character called Monty Python being crucified). In New York, the swiftly-formed Citizens Against Blasphemy Committee held a well-attended rally at which one Protestant clergyman furiously quoted the prophet Isaiah: ‘Woe to those who undermine the rightness of those who are in the right.’  A rabbi suggested that the film had been ‘produced in Hell’. Bishop Gregory of the Russian Orthodox Church fulminated loudly, along with several Catholic priests. The irony of Life Of Brian is that it did a remarkably good job of promoting inter-faith cooperation and understanding. In Britain, the chief film censor James Ferman took a boldly liberal view, suggesting that ‘Brian could not reasonably be taken to be a caricature of Jesus Christ’.  That’s the point that the Pythons themselves laboured again and again: Christ is represented respectfully in the movie. Brian is somebody else altogether, a victim of mistaken identity.  The target of satirical fun, they pointed out, wasn’t Christ at all, but the zealotry he inspired among his followers. Fittingly, that did nothing to dampen the zeal of Life of Brian’s critics. They were enraged by the crucifixion scene, which they said mocked Christ’s suffering. They loathed Palin’s portrayal of a leper who complained that by healing him, Jesus had robbed him of his living as a beggar. ‘Couldn’t you reverse things,’ he pleads, ‘and give me a bit of a bad leg, say, for every Tuesday and Wednesday?’ They hated the parody of Pontius Pilate (also Palin), who couldn’t pronounce his Rs. ‘I’ve had enough of this wowdy webel sniggewing … call yourself Pwaetowian guards!’ Ferman sided firmly with the Pythons. He ruled that the film could really not be considered blasphemous by any sensible interpretation of the word, adding that ‘a faith which could be shaken by such good-humoured ribaldry would be a very precarious faith indeed’.  He recommended an AA rating, meaning that anyone over 14 could see the film, unaccompanied. Nonetheless, district councils made up their own minds. Some, influenced by morality campaigner Mary Whitehouse and her Christian pressure group Festival Of Light, slapped an adults-only X-rating on Life Of Brian.  Hereford and Harrogate said no altogether. So did Guildford and Swansea. Most of the councillors who vetoed it, hadn’t seen it. One of them explained that he ‘didn’t need to see a pig-sty to know that it stinks’. The Association of District Councils of Cornwall banned it from the entire county. The most infamous denunciation of Life Of Brian came from the veteran TV presenter and born-again Christian Malcolm Muggeridge, in a televised debate between him and the Bishop of Southwark on one side, and Cleese and Palin on the other. Muggeridge called it a ‘tenth-rate film’, to which Cleese’s riposte was that he had realised at the age of ten or 11 that religion was itself full of ‘tenth-rate platitudes’.  The Bishop’s parting shot was that the Pythons would at least get their 30 pieces of silver. Readily available on YouTube, the confrontation remains one of TV’s most cherished ding-dongs. So how had the subject of this tremendous hoo-hah actually come about? Life Of Brian had, if not a miraculous conception, certainly an exact one. In April 1975, at the New York opening of Monty Python And The Holy Grail, a journalist asked Eric Idle what the team’s next film would be. ‘Jesus Christ, Lust For Glory,’ he replied. It was a typically edgy, off-the-cuff joke, yet it took root. Soon, Idle and the other Pythons — Jones, John Cleese, Michael Palin, Graham Chapman and Terry Gilliam — were working out ways in which they might lampoon religion without ridiculing Christ. The answer was a Jesus surrogate, wrongly worshipped because the Three Wise Men had paid accidental homage to the occupant of the manger next door. What better comedy name for him than Brian? That’s not a rhetorical question, by the way. At the time, I’d have favoured Kevin. Once their script was complete, the Pythons needed to finance it. That problem was solved when the film company EMI came on board. Sets were built in Tunisia, using the same locations that director Franco Zeffirelli had chosen for his epic TV series Jesus Of Nazareth a year or two earlier. ‘All those Arab extras were quite used to coming along and playing Jews for a day and a half,’ Palin later recalled. But then, disaster struck like a biblical thunderbolt. Bernard Delfont, the chairman of EMI, whose brother Lew Grade had produced Jesus Of Nazareth, read the script and thought it offensive to Christianity and Judaism alike.  EMI hastily withdrew from the project and the film looked doomed, until Idle had the bright idea of approaching his friend, ex-Beatle George Harrison. Harrison loved Monty Python humour. It also tickled him that the Pythons formed just as the Beatles split up, because he felt they had somehow absorbed the band’s iconoclastic spirit.  Harrison assured Idle that he would find the money — almost £5m — which he did by ‘pawning my house and the office to get a bank loan’. Harrison called his new company HandMade Films, and although it was established just to get Life Of Brian made, it went on to produce some of the most memorable British pictures of the next decade, including The Long Good Friday, Mona Lisa, Time Bandits and Withnail And I. Production finally began in September 1978, with Chapman in the title role.  Cleese had wanted to play Brian but the others overruled him, telling him he’d be funnier in a multitude of parts, including the Judean freedom-fighter who keeps being forced to readjust his furious grievance with the occupation forces, until finally he cries ‘alright, but apart from the sanitation, the medicine, education, wine, public order, irrigation, roads, the fresh water system and public health … what have the Romans ever done for us?’ That is one of many classic lines and moments in Life Of Brian, not that the Pythons always recognised them at the time.  The film was directed by Jones, now sadly stricken with dementia, but who in a TV documentary 13 years ago recalled that he wasn’t ‘overly impressed’ with Idle’s glorious final number Always Look On The Bright Side Of Life.  ‘We didn’t have any other ending,’ he explained with a rueful smile, well aware that it remains one of the most adored of all cinematic finales. In the 40 years since Life Of Brian, the Pythons all came to realise that it was their masterpiece. Like the Beatles, they were quite capable of angry squabbling, and they didn’t always do their best individual work at the same time.  But on Life Of Brian they did, starting with Gilliam’s animated opening-credits sequence, which looks spectacular even now. Moreover, the 41-day shoot was, for the most part, a happy one. Everyone was pulling strongly in the same direction, except the comedian Spike Milligan, who wandered onto the set one day having arrived in Tunisia to visit the World War Two battlefields on which he had fought.  The Pythons persuaded him to play a small part in the film, which one morning he did, but he didn’t return after lunch, grumbling that he was fed up and was supposed to be on holiday. Nevertheless, he made it into the final cut. So did executive producer George Harrison. He was an extra in a 15-second crowd scene, with one short word: ‘No.’ Unfortunately, nobody could hear him, so his voice had to be dubbed by Palin, who somehow managed to invest his ‘No’ with a convincingly Scouse accent. The only person involved with the production who didn’t wish Life Of Brian well remains anonymous.  But he or she, whoever they were, sent 11 pages of the script to Mary Whitehouse, enabling the formidable old campaigner to prepare her battle plans long before the film’s release.  The Pythons were worried that she might bring a prosecution for blasphemy, and she tried, but they sought the legal advice of John Mortimer QC who thought the film ‘riotously funny’ and assured them that their key defence, should they need it, was that Jesus and Brian were conspicuously different characters. Of course, that didn’t stop all hell breaking loose when the film did finally reach cinemas.  But then as now, there was no such thing as bad publicity. In the US, Life Of Brian was initially booked to appear on just 200 screens until the placard-wavers turned up and the Bible Belt towns started banning it. That created so much interest that it ended up on 600 screens. The same thing happened here. As a result of the ban in Cornwall, people flocked across the River Tamar to see it in Devon. In Exeter it did terrific business for weeks. As for Life Of Brian’s revival this week — brilliantly advertised on posters as a ‘we-welease’ – it’s hard to imagine it provoking any righteous spluttering at all. For better or worse, times have changed; we have other things to worry about now.  And I’ve changed, too, in 40 years. Now, I couldn’t be prouder to share my name my name with a film regularly cited as one of the greatest comedies of all time. Monty Python’s Life Of Brian was re-released in cinemas yesterday. 
