{ By Shive Prema For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:48, 23 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7918727/Sonny-Bill-Williams-REFUSES-wear-BetFred-logo-Toronto-Wolfpack-kit-Muslim-beliefs.html }
Sonny Bill Williams has refused to wear his Super League sponsor's logo due to his Muslim beliefs.  The 34-year-old rugby league player signed a $10million, two-year contract with Canadian team the Toronto Wolfpack in November 2019.  The Wolfpack play with English and French teams in the Betfred Super League, which is chiefly sponsored by British betting company Betfred.  However, gambling is considered haram in Islam, meaning that is forbidden in addition to other practices such as eating pork or drinking alcohol.   Toronto chairman Bob Hunter told the UK Telegraph on Wednesday that the club supports his decision.  'I think Betfred will benefit by taking the position that we respect and honour the player's religious beliefs,' he told the publication.  'In today's society there are some very sensitive issues but I think the sponsor can say 'yes, okay, we understand this. He's a big brand and big name but we get it'.'  Since 2017, the betting company has sponsored the league, which was renamed to the Betfred Super League as a result. The Betfred logo appears on the right sleeve of the Toronto Wolfpack jersey, as well as all other Super League teams and on match balls.  In 2017, Williams covered up the Bank of New Zealand logo on his Auckland Blues kit shirt with permission from the New Zealand Rugby Union.    'My objection to wearing clothing that markets banks, alcohol and gambling companies is central to my religious beliefs and it is important to me to have been granted this exemption,' Williams said at the time.  'As I learn more and develop a better understanding of my faith I am no longer comfortable doing things I used to do. So while a logo on a jersey might seem like a small thing to some people, it is important to me that I do the right thing with regards to my faith and hope people respect that.' It is not yet known whether Williams will be given his own custom Toronto Wolfpack kit with out the Betfred logo or if he will have to cover up the logo himself.  Williams converted from Christianity to Islam in 2009 and became the first Muslim to play for the All Blacks.  Williams football career began in the NRL at the Canterbury Bulldogs in 2004, where he won a premiership in his debut season. He left the NRL midway through his Bulldogs contract in 2008 for his first stint at rugby union in Europe. Williams signed a contract with Rugby New Zealand in 2010 that enabled him to play for the All Blacks, making his debut for the national side later that year. He returned to the NRL to play for the Sydney Roosters in 2013 and won his second premiership, before moving back to rugby union in 2015. Williams has been a fixture in the All Blacks squad through his rugby career, playing in the Rugby World Cup in Japan last year. The All Blacks were eliminated in the semi-finals by England, but rallied to beat Wales in the third place play-off.  Toronto Wolfpack head coach Brian McDermott first linked Williams with the club in October last year as a potential marquee player. This season will be the Wolfpack's first ever in the top tier after being promoted to the Super League after defeating the Featherstone Rovers in the 2019 Million Pound Game. 
