christianity
{ By Robert Hardman for the Daily Mail   Published:  02:04, 16 April 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-6926257/ROBERT-HARDMAN-witnesses-inside-ravaged-Notre-Dame.html }
Sparks and bits of flaming woodwork are still cascading from the remnants of the 12th-century roof. The smell instantly sears the back of your throat like a dose of smelling salts and my feet are soaked. The ancient black and white tiles leading up the aisle are under a gently-flowing river of hose water from the fire crews pumping what seems like much of the River Seine from their elevated platforms. Yet I can faithfully report that the Cathedral of Notre Dame is not entirely destroyed. Because I am standing inside it – alongside the French prime minister. In the early hours of this morning, I was among the first people to be allowed inside the ruins of one of the world’s finest cathedrals following the fire which has shocked not just the entire French nation but much of the planet. A blaze which began in the cathedral’s loft at 6.30pm had turned into an all-consuming catastrophe by nightfall. Officials reported that the wooden interior of the medieval cathedral had been almost completely destroyed. Certainly, Notre Dame’s spire is no more. Great chunks of its eastern end are no more. Its world-famous stained glass windows are in smithereens and the whole edifice is open to the skies. But Paris will wake today to see that the cathedral that has defied world wars, enemy occupations, revolutions and mobs galore is still poking its head above the Paris skyline. And at 1am today, at the far end of the cathedral, illuminated by lingering embers and firefighters’ equipment, I could just make out a stunning symbol of defiance through the gloom: the unmistakeable sight of a crucifix on what remains of the altar. Notre Dame is gravely damaged. Yet its most spectacular features – the 850-year-old twin towers – are still there. For centuries, these were the highest structures in Paris until the Eiffel Tower came along. To this day, they are instantly recognisable the world over. And last night, though looking very sorry for themselves, they were in one piece as I stood beneath them alongside a posse of fire crews and prime ministerial aides. Within hours, speculation was rife as to the cause of the fire. For now, it seems that it was what one official called a ‘stray flame’ – linked to a £5 million restoration project – which sparked the inferno. Experts have warned for years that the cathedral has been in a poor condition, with the French state reluctant to fund renovation work in recent decades. Experts said that the building needed a £129.5million (€150million) restoration, but the state had only offered €40million. The cathedral was seeking private donations to make up the rest. The flames were first spotted just minutes after the building had closed to the public for the day. Echoing the fears of his entire country, French president Emmanuel Macron instantly declared a national emergency. ‘Our Lady of Paris in flames,’ he declared on Twitter. ‘Like all our countrymen, I’m sad tonight to see this part of us burn.’ He has pledged to rebuild Notre Dame, saying: ‘Notre Dame is our history, our imagination, where we’ve lived all our great moments, and is the epicentre of our lives. ‘It’s the story of our books, our paintings. It’s the cathedral for all French people, even if they have never been. But it is burning and I know this sadness will be felt by all of our citizens. ‘Tomorrow a national subscription will be launched for people around the country to help rebuild this great Notre Dame. Because that’s what the French people want. That is what their history requires. Because that is our destiny.’ Questions were immediately asked about the way in which a fire could take such a rapid hold of one of the world’s most visited – and most beloved – landmarks. The firefighting response was also questioned as few, if any, high-pressure water hoses were able to reach the roof in the first hour. Critically, the Paris prosecutor has already opened an inquiry. I arrived last night to find a dumbstruck City of Light still bathed in a dismal afterglow. Here, on the banks of the Seine, tens of thousands of people – of all nationalities – stared incredulously at the slow death of a part of France’s soul. To describe the cathedral of Notre Dame as a national monument is a grave understatement. Imagine Westminster Abbey, St Paul’s Cathedral and the Tower of London all going up in smoke at the same time and you begin to appreciate the magnitude of this loss, except that Notre Dame attracts – or used to attract – twice as many annual visitors as those three London landmarks put together. That is why, as news began to spread last night, Parisians flocked to the Seine. They came here not as voyeurs but as mourners. They came to pay their last respects. Some sang hymns. Many were in tears. Some brought flowers and cards to place they knew not where. Understandably, perhaps, no one saw fit to light a candle. From medieval times, Notre Dame has marked the epochs in the story of this proud country and inspired one of the most famous literary masterpieces in the French language, The Hunchback of Notre Dame. This August marks the 75th anniversary of the day that General Charles De Gaulle marked the liberation of Paris within its walls, even as sporadic gunfire continued outside. This is a city which was famously spared the destruction which history has wreaked on so many other European capitals. It really did feel blessed; almost eternal. Not any more. Those twin towers are now blackened and wide open to the elements. By midnight, however, the flames had died down as the first glimmers of firemen’s torches could be seen here and there in the remains. I joined what I can only describe as a requiem mass of Parisians chanting prayers on the Pont de Notre Dame. All approaches to the cathedral’s island site had been sealed off to the public but crowds kept on coming from all directions for a glimpse. ‘At least the two towers are still standing, and they must stay up so that Notre Dame can be reborn,’ said civil servant Pascal Boichut, 52. There was a glimmer of hope when Paris fire brigade chief Jean-Claude Gallet told reporters: ‘We consider that the main structure of Notre Dame has been preserved.’ I could vouch for that an hour later when I managed to enter the controlled zone, cross the Seine and join prime minister Edouard Philippe as he was escorted through the West Door and inside the smouldering building. The scenes in the precincts of the cathedral resembled a Hollywood disaster movie. It looked as if every emergency vehicle in Paris had been crammed in to the side streets around the great edifice. In the shock of it all, no one even demanded that we wear a helmet or even a hi-vis jacket. Once inside, no one said a word. There was no need. By 2am, however, word had reached the crowds across the Seine that all was not lost. As some of the fire crews made their way out of the emergency zone for a breather, there were cheers and applause from the Parisian public. Dear old Paris has taken a battering of late. It is just four years since the twin terrorist atrocities of the attacks on the satirical magazine, Charlie Hebdo, and the massacre at the Bataclan concert hall. There was a palpable ‘Je Suis Charlie’-style emotion in Paris last night, along with a similar sense of global sympathy and solidarity as tributes and condolences poured in from around the world. It is hard to avoid this grisly spectacle from any part of central Paris. This is a city which has always favoured a low-rise building policy at its heart in order to preserve the grandeur of its architectural masterpieces. The cathedral’s location on an island in the Seine has always enhanced its prominence. Last night, it had the effect of making France’s suffering all the more visible. Even worse than last night’s conflagration, however, will be the cold light of dawn – as France awakes to find it is not just missing a large part of a much-loved landmark. It will be like missing a limb. The famous spire toppled only 63 minutes after the flames were spotted. The roof crashed shortly afterwards, causing the blaze to spread to the entire frame of the building. At 8.30pm, firemen were seen carrying priceless works of art to safety. ‘I’m devastated,’ said Elizabeth Caille, 58, who lives near the cathedral. ‘It’s a symbol of Paris. It’s a symbol of Christianity. It’s a whole world that is collapsing.’ Ed Kelly, from Canada, said: ‘This is the first time I’ve seen the cathedral up close, and it’s on fire. It’s heartbreaking.’ At 10.30pm, firemen said the cathedral’s famous 13th-century stained glass Rose windows had been destroyed. ‘They exploded because of the heat of the blaze,’ said one. French police added that one fireman had been seriously injured. The Archbishop of Canterbury Justin Welby tweeted: ‘Tonight we pray for the firefighters tackling the tragic Notre Dame fire – and for everyone in France and beyond who watches and weeps for this beautiful, sacred place where millions have met with Jesus Christ.’ This morning, France will demand answers – not to mention a no-expense-spared restoration plan. And fast. A French billionaire has pledged 100 million euros to help rebuild Notre Dame Cathedral as a defiant President Macron launches a national fundraising campaign to restore the building to its former glory. The catastrophic blaze destroyed the roof of the 850-year-old UNESCO world heritage landmark as horrified Parisians looked on - many in tears and praying - on Monday evening. A visibly emotional Macron, spoke outside the gothic cathedral and said a national fundraising campaign to restore Notre Dame would be launched Tuesday, as he called on the world's 'greatest talents' to help. He said: 'We will appeal to the greatest talents and we will rebuild Notre Dame because that's what the French are waiting for, because that's what our history deserves, because it's our deepest destiny.' French billionaire Francois-Henri Pinault, who is married to Hollywood actress Salma Hayek, pledged 100 million euros (£86.2 million) towards the rebuilding of the cathedral. In a statement the CEO of the Kering group, which owns Gucci and Yves Saint Laurent fashion houses, said the money towards 'the effort necessary to completely rebuild Notre Dame' would be paid by the Pinault family's investment firm Artemis. Macron had earlier cancelled a major televised policy speech he was due to give on Monday evening to respond to months of protests, and instead headed to the scene in person. He said while the 'worst had been avoided' and the facade and two towers saved, 'the next hours will be difficult'. Paris fire brigade chief Jean-Claude Gallet said 'we can consider that the main structure of Notre Dame has been saved and preserved' as well as the two towers. Deputy Interior Minister Laurent Nunez, also present at the scene on Monday evening, said that for the first time 'the fire had decreased in intensity' while still urging 'extreme caution'. The Vatican on Monday expressed its 'incredulity' and 'sadness', expressing 'our closeness with French Catholics and with the Parisian population.' The cause of the blaze was not immediately confirmed. The cathedral had been undergoing intense restoration work which the fire service said could be linked to the blaze. French prosecutors said it was being treated as an 'involuntary' fire, indicating that foul play was ruled out for now. Firefighters, police, and churchmen risked their lives last night to carry priceless historical artefacts and religious relics away from the flames which engulfed Notre Dame de Paris. The Mayor of Paris tweeted her thanks to first responders for forming 'a formidable human chain' to save irreplaceable objects including the relic believed by Catholics to be the crown of thorns which was put on Jesus' head as he died on the cross. Mayor Anne Hidalgo went on: 'The Crown of Thorns, the tunic of Saint Louis and several other major works are now in a safe place.' And Father Fournier, Chaplain of the Paris Firefighters, told reporters he went into the burning cathedral to save the Blessed Sacrament and Crown of Thorns. Parisians applauded and cheered fire crews as they drove through the streets in the early hours of the morning. The church's treasure trove of priceless artworks and religious relics include the Crown of Thorns said to have been placed on the head of Jesus before he was crucified, a piece of the True Cross on which he is said to have died and a nail from the crucifixion. The relics were obtained from the Byzantine Empire in 1238 and brought to Paris by King Louis IX. Notre Dame is also home to priceless paintings dating back to the 1600s, including a series known as the Petits Mays, gifted to the cathedral once a year from 1630 to 1707. Among the most celebrated artworks are three stained-glass rose windows high up on the west, north and south faces of the cathedral. Notre Dame's Great Organ, which dates back to the 13th century and was restored in the early 1990s, is considered the most famous in the world, with five keyboards and nearly 8,000 pipes. Last night firemen at the scene said all efforts were being directed at saving artwork in the cathedral and preventing the collapse of its northern tower. 'Everything is collapsing,' a police officer near the scene said as the cathedral continued to burn. The ten bells of Notre Dame are renowned across Europe and the first nine are named Marie, Gabriel, Anne-Genevieve, Denis, Marcel, Etienne, Benoit-Joseph, Maurice, and Jean-Marie. The final and largest, known as the bourdon bell Emmanuel, weighs more than 13 tonnes. It sits in the southern tower and has been a part of the building since 1681. In 1944, Emmanuel was rung in celebration and triumph by French troops and allies to announce to the city that it was on its way to liberation. The famous gargoyles and chimera that adorn Notre Dame were built in the 19th century by architect Eugene Viollet-le-Duc. The original purpose of the gargoyles was to assist with the building's drainage, but they have become one of its most-loved features. In the 1790s, Notre Dame was desecrated during the French Revolution when much of its religious imagery was damaged or destroyed and its treasures plundered. The 28 statues of biblical kings located at the west facade, mistaken for statues of French kings, were beheaded. All of the other large statues on the facade, with the exception of that of the Virgin Mary on the portal of the cloister, were destroyed. The cathedral was restored over 25 years after the publication of the book The Hunchback of Notre Dame by Victor Hugo in 1831 brought it into the spotlight. Sixteen statues that were part of the cathedral's destroyed spire were safe and unscathed after being removed as part of a renovation a few days ago, and that the relics had also been saved. The green-grey statues, representing the 12 apostles and four evangelists, were apparently lowered by cranes from the site and taken away. The cathedral also has a spectacular series of carved wooden stalls and statues representing the Passion of the Christ. Intrigued by tales of Quasimodo, fascinated by the gargoyles, or on a pilgrimage to see the Crown of Thorns said to have rested on Jesus' head on the Cross, more than 13 million people each year flock to see Europe's most popular historic monument. The 12th century Catholic cathedral is a masterpiece of French Gothic design, with a cavernous vaulted ceiling and some of the largest rose windows on the continent. It is the seat of the Archdiocese of Paris and its 69m-tall towers were the tallest structures in Paris until the completion of the Eiffel Tower in 1889. It survived a partial sacking by 16th century zealots and the destruction of many of its treasures during the atheist French Revolution but remains one of the greatest churches in the world and was the scene of Emperor Napoleon's coronation in 1804.  The foundation stone was laid in front of Pope Alexander III in 1163, with building work on the initial structure completed in 1260.  The roof of the nave was constructed with a new technology: the rib vault. The roof of the nave was supported by crossed ribs which divided each vault into compartments, and the use of four-part rather than six-part rib vaults meant the roofs were stronger and could be higher. After the original structure was completed in the mid 13th century - following the consecration of the High altar in 1182 - flying  buttresses had been invented, and were added to spread the weight of the mighty vault. The original spire was constructed in the 13th century, probably between 1220 and 1230. It was battered, weakened and bent by the wind over five centuries, and finally was removed in 1786.  During a 19th century restoration, following desecration during the Revolution, it was recreated with a new version of oak covered with lead. The entire spire weighed 750 tons.  At the summit of the spire were held three relics; a tiny piece of the Crown of Thorns, located in the treasury of the Cathedral; and relics of Denis and Saint Genevieve, patron saints of Paris. They were placed there in 1935 by the Archibishop Verdier, to protect the congregation from lightning or other harm. The Crown of Thorns was one of the great relics of medieval Christianity. It was acquired by Louis IX, king of France, in Constantinople in AD 1239 for the price of 135,000 livres - nearly half the annual expenditure of France.  The elaborate reliquary in which just one of the thorns is housed sits in the Cathedral having been moved from the Saint-Chappelle church in Paris. The thorn is mounted on a large sapphire in the centre. The crown itself is also held in the cathedral, and is usually on view to the public on Good Friday - which comes at the end of this week. During the 1790s with the country in the grip of atheist Revolution the cathedral was desecrated and much of its religious iconography destroyed. It was rededicated to the Cult of Reason and 28 statues of biblical kings - wrongly believed to by French monarchs - were beheaded. Even the great bells were nearly melted down. Napoleon returned the cathedral to the Catholic Church and was crowned Emperor there in 1804, but by the middle of the 19th century much of the iconic building. It wasn't until the publication of Victor Hugo's novel - The Hunchback of Notre Dame - in 1831 that public interest in the building resurfaced and repair works began.  A major restoration project was launched in 1845 and took 25 years to be completed.  Architects Jean-Baptiste-Antoine Lassus and Eugène Viollet-le-Duc won the commission.  By 1944 the cathedral was to be damaged again and during the liberation of Paris, stray bullets caused minor damage to the medieval stained glass.  This would be updated with modern designs.  In 1963 France's Culture Minister, André Malraux, ordered the cleaning of the facade of the cathedral, where 800 years worth of soot and grime were removed.  Notre Dame has a crypt, called the Crypte archéologique de l'île de la Cité, where old architectural ruins are stored. They span from the times of the earliest settlement in Paris to present day.  The cathedral has 10 bells, the heaviest bell - known as the boudon and weighing 13 tonnes - is called Emmanuel and has been rung to mark many historical events throughout time.  At the end of the First and Second World Wars the bell was rung to mark the end of the conflicts.  It is also rung to signify poignant events such as French heads of state dying or following horrific events such as the terrorist attack on the Twin Towers in New York in 2001.   The three stained glass rose windows are the most famous features of the cathedral. They were created in the Gothic style between 1225 and 1270.  While most of the original glass is long gone, some remains in the south rose which dates back to the last quarter of the 12th century.  The rest of the windows were restored in the 18th century.  The south rose is made up of 94 medallions which are arranged in four concentric circles.  They portray scenes from the life of Christ and those who knew him - with the inner circle showing the 12 apostles in it 12 medallions.  During the French Revolution rioters set fire to the residence of the archbishop, which was around the side of the cathedral, and the south rose was damaged.  One of the cathedral's first organs was built in 1403 by Friedrich Schambantz but was replaced in the 18th century before being remade using the pipe work from former instruments. The Cathedral is also home to a Catholic relic said to be a single thorn from the crown of thorns worn by Jesus on the cross.     President Donald Trump tweeted about the massive fire engulfing Notre Dame Monday, suggesting the use of flying water tankers to douse the flames – then appeared to criticize renovation work that may have caused it. Trump tweeted from aboard Air Force One en route to Minnesota, while viewers around the world were watching the iconic cathedral's in flames. 'So horrible to watch the massive fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris. Perhaps flying water tankers could be used to put it out. Must act quickly!' Trump wrote while en route to Minnesota for an event about taxes. Later, at his Tax Day event, Trump told a crowd about the 'terrible, terrible fire.' 'The fire that they're having at the Notre Dame Cathedral is something like few people have witnessed,' the president said. 'When we left the plane, it was burning at a level that you rarely see a fire burn. It's one of the great treasures of the world,' Trump continued. 'It's one of the great treasures in the world. The greatest artists in the world. Probably if you think about it … it might be greater almost than any museum in the world and it's burning very badly. Looks like It's burning to the ground,' the president added, as firefighters struggled to contain the blaze. Trump said he had a 'communication' with France but did not specify if he spoke to French authorities. 'That puts a damper on what we're about to say to be honest,' Trump told his audience in Minnesota. 'Because that is beyond countries. That's beyond anything. That's a part of our growing up it's a part of our culture, it's a part of our lives. That's a truly great cathedral. And I've been there and I've seen it … There's probably no cathedral in the world like it,' Trump said. 'They think it was caused by renovation. And I hope that's the reason,' Trump continued. Renovation. What's that all about?' Trump said. Then he called it a 'terrible sight to behold.' 'With that being said, I want to tell you that a lot of progress has been made by our country in the last two and a half years, ' Trump said, segueing into his tax event. 'Hard to believe we're already starting to think about our next election.' The Windsor Castle fire of November 1992  A fire broke out at Windsor Castle on November 20, 1992, which caused extensive damage to the royal residence. The Berkshire blaze started at 11am in Queen Victoria's Private Chapel after a faulty spotlight ignited a curtain next to the altar. Within minutes the blaze had spread to St George's Hall next door, and the fire would go on to destroy 115 rooms, including nine State Rooms. Three hours after the blaze was first spotted 225 firemen from seven counties were battling the fire, using 36 pumps to discharge 1.5million gallons of water at the inferno's peak. The fire break at the other end of St George's Hall remained unbreached, so the Royal Library was fortunately left undamaged. Staff worked to remove works of art from the Royal Collection from the path of the fire. According to the Royal Collection Trust: 'The Castle's Quadrangle was full of some of the finest examples of French 18th-century furniture, paintings by Van Dyck, Rubens and Gainsborough, Sèvres porcelain and other treasures of the Collection. 'Amazingly, only two works of art were lost in the fire - a rosewood sideboard and a very large painting by Sir William Beechey that couldn't be taken down from the wall in time. Luckily works of art had already been removed from many rooms in advance of rewiring work.' The Duke of York had said he he heard the fire alarm and roughly two or three minutes later he saw the smoke after leaving the room he was in, according to contemporary reports. Prince Andrew had joined a group removing valuable works of art from the castle to save them from destruction. The York Minster fire of 1984  Early in the morning of July 9, 1984, York Minster's south transept was set ablaze, destroying the roof and causing £2.25million worth of damage. More than 100 firefighters confronted the church fire, taking two hours to bring it to heel. The cause of the fire is believed to have been a lightning bolt that struck the cathedral shortly after midnight.  The blaze seriously damaged the cathedral's stonework, along with its famous Rose Window, and firefighters were left tackling embers on the floor after the roof collapsed at 4am. Minster staff and clergy busied themselves saving as many artefacts as possible before the fire was finally brought under control at around 5.24am.  An investigation ruled out an electrical or gas fault, and arson was discounted due to roof's inaccessibility. Tests had found that the blaze was 'almost certainly' caused by a lightning strike but much of the evidence was destroyed in the fire. The building was restored in 1988 after masonry teams re-carved stonework above the building's rose window and arches. It was reported that the rose window, designed to celebrate the marriage of King Henry VII and Elizabeth of York, reached a temperature of 842F during the incident, cracking the glass in several places before it was restored.  It was not the first time the building had caught ablaze. In the early hours of February 1, 1829, Jonathan Martin set the building on fire, melting the lead from the roof and cracking the building's limestone pillars. Late that afternoon the fire started dying out after roughly 230 feet of choir roof had collapsed. Non-conformist Martin, a former sailor from Northumberland, did not believe in formal liturgy, had published pamphlets condemning the clergy as 'vipers of Hell'. He was charged with setting the building on fire, but was found not guilty due to insanity, and died in a London asylum in 1838. The Great Fire of London  On September 2, 1666, a fire broke out Thomas Farriner's bakery in Pudding Lane, close to London Bridge. The summer of 1666 had been unusually hot, and the city had not seen rain for several weeks, leaving wooden houses and buildings tinder dry. Once the fire had taken hold, 300 houses quickly collapsed and strong east winds fanned the flames from house to house, sweeping the blaze through London's winding narrow lanes, with houses positioned close together. In an attempt to flee the fire by boat, Londoners poured down to the River Thames and the city was overtaken by chaos. There was no fire brigade in London at the time, so residents themselves had to fight the fire with the help of local soldiers. They used buckets of water, water squirts and fire hooks, pulling down houses with hooks to make gaps or 'fire breaks', but the wind helped fan the fire across the created gaps. King Charles II had ordered that houses in the path of the fire should be pulled down - but the fire outstripped the hooked poles that were used to try and achieve this. By September 4 half of London had been overtaken by the blaze, and King Charles himself joined firefighters, handing them buckets of water in a desperate attempt to bring the blaze under control. Gunpowder was deployed to blow up houses that lay in the path's fire, but the sound of explosions triggered rumours of a French invasion, heightening the city's panic. St Paul’s Cathedral caught fire, with the lead roof melting and pouring into the street 'like a river' as the cathedral collapsed. The fire was eventually brought under control and extinguished by September 6, leaving just one fifth of London untouched. Almost every civic building had been destroyed, along with 13,000 private homes, 87 parish churches, The Royal Exchange, and Guildhall. Roughly 350,000 people lived in London just before the Great Fire, making the city one of the largest in Europe. A monument was erected in Pudding Lane, where the blaze broke out. The Great Fire of Rome , 64AD The Great Fire of Rome, during the reign of Emperor Nero in 64AD, destroyed much of the city after the blaze began in the slums south of the aristocratic Palatine Hill. Strong winds fanned the fire north, scorching homes in its path, causing widespread panic during the inferno's three-day duration. Hundreds died in the conflagration, and thousands were left homeless. Three of the 14 districts were completely destroyed, and only four remained completely untouched. That Emperor Nero 'fiddled while the city burned' has become popular legend, but is not accurate. The Emperor was 35 miles away in Antium when the fire broke out and allowed his palace to be used as a shelter. And the fiddle had not yet been invented. Nero, who used the fire as an opportunity to rebuild the city in a more Greek style, blamed Christians for the fire, ordering the arrest, torture and execution of hundreds of the religion's faithful. Historian Tacitus said the fire was 'graver and more terrible than any other which had befallen this city.' Notre Dame Cathedral went up in flames on Monday in a roaring blaze that devastated the Parisian landmark, leaving the city, France, and the international community distraught.  Flames that began in the early evening burst through the roof of the centuries-old cathedral and engulfed the spire, which collapsed, quickly followed by the entire roof. While a huge plume of smoke wafted across the city and ash fell over a large area, Parisians and tourists watched on, as others took to social media to express their sorrow. 'Centuries of art and history destroyed before our eyes. This building has stood since the Middle Ages. This is absolutely devastating,' one Twitter user wrote. Later in the evening, those in the city gathered together to say prayers and sing hymns in front of the nearby Saint Julien Les Pauvres church as the massive blaze continued only a few hundred meters away. Many were quietly singing an Ave Maria in Latin, including Stephane Seigneurie, 52, who said he has lived in Paris for the past 25 years. 'I come often, and go in even where there's no mass because it's an extraordinary place, entwined in the history of France,' he said. 'Politically, intellectually and spiritually, it's a symbol of France.' Archbishop of Paris Michel Aupetit has invited priests across France to ring the bells of their churches in a call for prayers for Notre Dame. 'Paris is disfigured. The city will never be like it was before,' said Philippe, a communications worker in his mid-30s, who had biked over to the scene after being alerted of the fire by a friend. 'I'm a Parisian, my father was a Parisian, my grandfather as well - this was something we brought our sons to see,' he said. 'I won't be showing this to my son.'  'It's a tragedy,' he added. 'If you pray, now is the time to pray.'  'Basically the whole rooftop is gone. I see no hope for the building,' said witness Jacek Poltorak, watching the fire from a fifth-floor balcony two blocks from the southern facade of the cathedral, one of France's most visited places.   'Notre Dame is perhaps one of the most beautiful buildings I have ever set foot in, and watching it burn down is absolutely soul crushing,' read one Twitter post.  'Terrible seeing the Notre Dame in flames. Art and history turned to ashes. So glad no one has been hurt. Paris we are with you and will be there to see it restored. Shocking news,' another social media user said.  Others described the tragedy of never being able to see the Notre Dame as it was before the blaze. 'Sad I'll never get to see Notre Dame,' one Twitter user wrote. 'It's on my bucket list and now one of the historic landmarks is just gone! Thoughts go out to France'.  'It's finished, we'll never be able to see it again,' said Jerome Fautrey, a 37-year-old who had come to watch.  Buildings around were evacuated and nobody was injured, junior interior minister Laurent Nunez said at the scene, adding: 'It's too early to determine the causes of the fire.'  France 2 television reported that police were treating it as an accident.  'Everything is collapsing,' a police officer near the scene said as the entire roof of the cathedral continued to burn.    'Like all our compatriots, I am sad this evening to see this part of all of us burn,' President Emmanuel Macron tweeted.  'There are a lot of art works inside...it's a real tragedy,' Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo said at the scene. Authorities have revealed they are unable to drop water on to Notre Dame to tame the blaze for fear it will ruin what is left of the 850-year-old cathedral as well as injuring people nearby. The tactic was suggested by US President Donald Trump on Twitter but it hasn't been deployed because of the risks it could pose not only to the historic building but to any people nearby. The French Interior Ministry tweeted to say that 400 firefighters have been mobilised to help tackle the blaze that is engulfing the cathedral. In cases of intense fires, a water bomber jet - called a Canadair - can be deployed to drop large amounts of water. Hundreds of comments have flooded in on the Pompiers du Paris Twitter page in support of the brave firefighters risking their lives to save Notre Dame. French news site Le Monde, explains: 'A Canadair projects about six tonnes of water at high speed to the ground. 'The danger is significant of hurting one or more people around the building - which is why Canadair interventions are so infrequent in urban and peri-urban areas. 'Such an intervention could also significantly destroy the little remaining structure of the cathedral.' The French Interior Ministry have mobilised 400 firefighters to help tackle the blazing inferno which has been burning for If an accident happens while a Canadair is being used, the pilot may also face criminal charges. Canadairs were used earlier this year in March when France experienced intense wildfires near Valdeblore in the Alpes-Maritimes. They were also used in 2017 when France experienced intense wildfires that forced 10,000 people to evacuate their homes and campsites overnight. 
