{ By Harriet Johnston For Mailonline   Published:  16:40, 9 April 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-6903043/Great-British-Bake-stars-reunite-fan-favourite-Martha-Collison-gets-married.html }
Great British Bake Off stars enjoyed a reunion over the weekend as former fan favourite Martha Collison married her long term partner Michael Haywood. Martha, 22, from Ascot, appeared in series five of the programme, and remains one of the youngest bakers to ever grace the tent. She was just 17 when she made it to the quarter-final of the show in 2014, and is still close friends with her former competitors. Fellow stars included series winner Nancy Birtwhistle and finalist Richard Burr, alongside Chetna Makan, Claire Goodwin, Iain Watters, Enwezor Nzegwu, Diana Beard and Kate Henry.  As well as being in attendance at her wedding, they also helped fill an incredible cake table with exceptional bakes.   Several showcased incredible bakes as gifts to the couple, which were presented at the wedding on a showstopping cake table.     While neither of the judges from the series Paul Hollywood or Mary Berry were in attendance, Richard Parr revealed that the latter had sent the couple 'a lovely message'.   The loved-up couple celebrated their big day at Sullington Manor Farm, a beautiful barn-style wedding venue in Sussex, which was decorated with hanging fairy lights and Polaroid photographs of the couple.   The series Martha starred in was infamous for some of it's incredible characters and included some iconic Bake Off moments, including BinGate, where contestant Ian Watters binned his Baked Alaska.   Martha, who was finishing off her A-levels while competing in the tent, has made some lifelong friends from the competition, with many attending the joyful day.   Fellow baker Claire Goodwin opened up about the day on Instagram, writing:  '@marthacollison and @mbhaywood27 wedding at the beautiful Sullington Manor Farm yesterday.' She called the celebration: 'A beautiful wedding that perfectly reflected the love these guys have both for each other and their faith.'   While acknowledging that she is not a woman of faith, she noted Martha and Michael's dedication to Christianity, writing: 'When you have the privilege of being invited to share in another’s way of life for a time, it is an honour to learn and experience. 'I took away from this an incredible sense of community and a sense of unwavering commitment.  'Martha and Michael are a testament to how we should communicate with, honour and love each other.  She called the young couple's love 'infectious' and, proving the Bake Off cast are still close, named the group 'fantastic friends'.   Fellow baker Chetna commented:'What a day! Having known @marthacollison since she was 17, watching her get married to @mbhaywood27 yesterday was just most lovely and beautiful and even more special since we had the whole bake-off family there to celebrate!  Also an honour to make her cake with all the other bakers, love each and everyone one of them!'  And series finalist Richard Burr called it 'the wedding of the year'.  Martha, who has released two cookbooks since her stint on the TV baking show, announced the marriage on her own Instagram, writing:'What a joyful day.'   Proving how close the bakers are across their series, contestants from other series were keen to congratulate the young couple.  Recent winner Rahul Mandal commented:'Congratulations Martha!', while series six winner Nadia Hussain wrote: 'Congratulations both of you xx'  Series four winner Francis Quinn also told Martha: 'Sending copious amounts of congratulations to you both!'  The couple, who got engaged in January 2018, looked extremely loved up in their wedding photographs.  They first got together in 2015 following her appearance on the popular baking show.  
