christianity
{ By Geoff Earle, Deputy U.s. Political Editor For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:37, 3 April 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-6883137/Breakout-Democratic-2020-contender-Pete-Buttigieg-questions-Trumps-claims-Christian.html }
Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg said President Trump's actions including exalting his own 'wealth and power' is difficult to square with a belief in God.  Trump is a  Presbyterian who regularly touts his support among Evangelical voters, who helped vault him to his unlikely victory in the Iowa Caucuses in 2016. But it is Trump's pointing to his own wealth and status that has Buttigieg, a breakout  candidate and South Bend mayor who raised $7 million in the first campaign finance quarter, questioning what Trump believes. 'I'm reluctant to comment on another person's faith, but I would say it is hard to look at this president's actions and believe that they're the actions of somebody who believes in God,' Buttigieg told USA Today. 'I just don't understand how you can be as worshipful of your own self as he is and be prepared to humble yourself before God. I've never seen him humble himself before anyone,' he continued. 'And the exaltation of yourself, especially a self that's about wealth and power, could not be more at odds with at least my understanding of the teachings of the Christian faith.'  Buttigieg didn't point to any examples. However Trump lives in the penthouse in the eponymous Trump Tower, reportedly took efforts to run up the bidding for a charity auction of a portrait of himself, has hung paintings of himself in private golf clubs bearing the Trump name, and owns a fleet of aircraft bearing the Trump name that is part of a branding empire.  Buttigieg, in an appearance on ABC's 'The View.' blasted Trump for 'writing hush money checks to porn stars,' and has taken on fellow Hoosier Mike Pence for countenancing some of Trump's behavior. Trump has also challenged Pence on his expressions of faith and what Buttigieg calls a focus on sexuality. In a CNN town hall that helped launch his fundraising success, Buttigieg responded when asked about Pence: 'How could he allow himself to become the cheerleader of the porn star presidency? Is it that he stopped believing in scripture when he started believing in Donald Trump? I don't know.' He was referencing porn star Stormy Daniels's claim to have had an affair with Trump, and Trump lawyer Michael Cohen's $130,000 payment to the porn star that was reimbursed by Trump.  He told USA Today in the interview where he took on Trump: 'The left is rightly committed to a separation of church and state … but we need to not be afraid to invoke arguments that are convincing on why Christian faith is going to point you in a progressive direction.' “When I think about where most of Scripture points me, it is toward defending the poor, and the immigrant, and the stranger, and the prisoner, and the outcast, and those who are left behind by the way society works,' said Buttigieg, alluding to Trump's efforts to build a wall and clamp down on illegal immigration. 'And what we have now is this exaltation of wealth and power, almost for its own sake, that in my reading of Scripture couldn't be more contrary to the message of Christianity. So I think it's really important to carry a message, knitting together a lot of groups that have already been on this path for some time, but giving them more visibility in the public sphere,' he said. 
