christianity
{ By Claire Toureille For Mailonline   Published:  00:00, 4 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7760579/Chefchaouen-Morocco-attracts-tourists-influencers-year-round-narrow-blue-stairs.html }
Tourists who turn up in Chefchaouen, a small city in Northern Morocco where the walls are drenched in blue, are hoping for the perfect selfie when they strike a pose. However, first they must jostle with a small army of tourists seeking exactly the same thing. So photogenic is Chefchaouen that esteemed travel guide Fodor's is fearing for its future, saying the off-the-beaten track destination has been ruined by Instagrammers.  The hashtag 'Chefchaouen' has currently garnered over 620,000 posts on Instagram and its popularity is showing no signs of slowing down.  Influencers, bloggers and backpackers all swarm on this Moroccan city on a daily basis, whatever the season, to stand on its eye-catching blue stairs.  Founded in 1471, and counting more than 42,700 inhabitants, Chefchaouen, also know as Chaouen, has always been one of the country's most photographed cities. However, the digital generation have seen the number of visitors soar.  Its bright blue hues have earned Chefchaouen the nickname 'Blue Pearl' and it's colourful stairs make a perfect Instagram backdrop.  How did it become so alluring? It's believed Jewish refugees painted the walls blue upon arriving to Morocco in 1930, as a symbol of sky and heaven.  Others claim the colour goes back to the 15th century when Jews lived alongside local Moroccans and Moriscos (Muslims who converted to Christianity) and painted the buildings as a nod to celestial powers and to represent peace and safety in their pluralistic hometown.     One thing is for certain, nowadays, its walls is make makes Chefchaouen popular with travellers.    While travel publisher Fodor add it to its list of places 'ruined by Instagram' earlier this year, locals say the enhanced interest has seen the city thrive.  One particularly creative inhabitant of the Medina - Chefchaouen's old city, for example, has turned his house into a 'museum' and charged tourists 5 dirhams (around £0.38) for entry. He told the Business Insider earlier this year: 'All these people come and put photos of my house on Instagram and YouTube and Facebook. It's famous now. 'I have been able to fix my house and to have a business because of it,' he added.  In the same article, it was reported that locals had even learned English to better serve tourists, and that some had tried their hand at Chinese because the tourist sight is proving so popular in the Far East.    
