{ By Isabella Nikolic For Mailonline   Published:  08:55, 2 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7844515/Christianity-Today-editor-announces-retiring-sparking-fury-evangelicals.html }
The editor of Christianity Today has announced his retirement after sparking fury among nearly 200 evangelical leaders in December by calling President Trump 'profoundly immoral' and demanding his removal.  Mark Galli, 67, made the comments in his December 19 editorial titled 'Trump Should Be Removed From Office'.  It was released one day after the House of Representatives ruled in favour of President Trump becoming the third US President to ever be impeached - after Samuel Johnson in 1868 and Bill Clinton in 1998.  Galli wrote on Twitter yesterday to confirm his departure: 'Well, my retirement is a couple of days away. Will be posting here more often now that I have more time on my hands. 'Well, given last week, maybe not.' And the magazine also confirmed he will be leaving and plans to continue a weekly newsletter.  The magazine retweeted Mr Galli's initial post and commented, 'Our editor-in-chief for two more days,' alongside a crying emoji.   Christianity Today added: 'If you’re wanting to keep up with Mark after he retires, he will still be sending out his weekly newsletter each Friday.'  The editorial, which was published in the magazine that was founded by the late Reverend Billy Graham in 1956, sparked fury from the community.  Graham's son, Reverend Franklin Graham, told Fox News in December: 'My father knew Donald Trump, believed in Donald Trump, and in this last election, he voted for Donald Trump.'  Despite many people praising Galli for his 'courageous' comments, nearly 200 evangelical leaders claimed that the anti-Trump editorial had 'offensively questioned the spiritual integrity and Christian witness of tens-of-millions of believers who take seriously their civic and moral obligations,' according to Fox News.   In his article, Galli wrote: 'We want CT to be a place that welcomes Christians from across the political spectrum, and reminds everyone that politics is not the end and purpose of our being.' He went on to acknowledge that Democrats have 'had it our for Trump from day one' but that the President had violated the Constitution and should be removed from office. Galli wrote: 'The facts in this instance are unambiguous: The president of the United States attempted to use his political power to coerce a foreign leader to harass and discredit one of the president’s political opponents.  'That is not only a violation of the Constitution; more importantly, it is profoundly immoral.' The former editor initially announced his retirement plans in October and he will be succeeded by Dr. Daniel Harrell, a longtime minister and author.  
