christianity
{ By Leah Simpson For Dailymail.com   Published:  02:22, 29 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7833753/Trump-retweets-2-year-old-meme-claiming-brought-Jesus-Obama-kicked-out.html }
Donald Trump has retweeted a two-year-old meme that suggests Jesus Christ likes him better than Barack Obama and calls the current White House resident 'heaven sent'. On Friday, Trump reshared the image that states '(Obama) kicked me out, (Trump) invited me back)' and shows a man carrying luggage, causing Twitter users to hit out against the insinuation. The social media post from January 2018 is captioned: 'There's so much to be thankful for regarding our POTUS Trump!  'I truly believe this man was heaven sent in order to save and protect the most gracious, benevolent, and in turn, prosperous country ever. God bless him and his family.' The editor-in-chief of Christian Today blasted Trump after the impeachment hearings.  'Unfortunately, the words that we applied to Mr. Clinton 20 years ago apply almost perfectly to our current president,' Mark Galli wrote on Thursday.  'Whether Mr. Trump should be removed from office by the Senate or by popular vote next election — that is a matter of prudential judgment. That he should be removed, we believe, is not a matter of partisan loyalties but loyalty to the Creator of the Ten Commandments.'  Trump replied to the old meme he resurfaced years later: 'Thank you!'  However on Friday, social media users hit back at Trump's suggestion about the son of God favoring him. Some joked about whether he was carrying his tax returns in the image and others mentioned his stance on border control.  'Is He bringing us your tax returns in that luggage? Straight from heaven to your impeachment trial? Awesome!' one person replied. 'YOU. ARE. AGAINST. EVERY. THING. JESUS. EVER. TAUGHT.' another posted.      Trump had fired back to the prominent Christian magazine last Friday, a day after it published an editorial arguing that he should be removed from office because of his 'blackened moral record'. Trump tweeted that Christianity Today, an evangelical magazine founded by the late Rev. Billy Graham, 'would rather have a Radical Left nonbeliever, who wants to take your religion & your guns, than Donald Trump as your President.' The magazine 'has been doing poorly and hasn't been involved with the Billy Graham family for many years,' Trump wrote. He questioned whether the magazine would prefer a Democratic president 'to guard their religion.' Some of his strongest evangelical supporters, including Graham's son, rallied to his side and against the publication.  Their pushback underscored Trump's hold on the evangelical voting bloc that helped propel him into office and suggested the editorial would likely do little to shake that group's loyalty. Rev. Franklin Graham, who now leads the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association and prayed at Trump's inauguration, tweeted Friday that his father would be 'disappointed' in the magazine.  Graham added that he 'felt it necessary' following the editorial to share that his father, who died last year after counseling several past presidents, voted for Trump. The president thanked Graham for the disclosure. Christianity Today 'represents what I would call the leftist elite within the evangelical community. They certainly don´t represent the Bible-believing segment of the evangelical community,' Graham told The Associated Press in an interview.  He wrote on Facebook: 'Is President Trump guilty of sin? Of course he is, as were all past presidents and as each one of us are, including myself.'  
