{ By Emily Goodin, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com In West Palm Beach   Published:  14:36, 25 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7826399/Donald-Melania-offer-gratitude-Christians-service-members-Christmas-video-message.html }
Donald and Melania Trump wished Americans a Merry Christmas with a video message featuring the first couple clad in holiday red. The two offered gratitude for those who celebrate the birth of Jesus, who care for others, and for U.S. troops stationed over seas. The video, posted Christmas morning, appeared to be taken at the White House, which meant it was likely recorded before the first couple left for Florida on Friday. It was filled with religious and holiday themes, featuring the first couple talking over images of the White House holiday decorations and events attended by the president and first lady throughout the year, including Melania's visit to the Red Cross to pack care packages for troops overseas and President Trump's Thanksgiving visit to Afghanistan.  'The president and I want to wish each and every American a very Merry Christmas,' the first lady, wearing a bright red dress, said. The president then turned to a religious theme.  'At this sacred time of year Christians celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ and rejoice in his love for every person. We give thanks to the millions of Americans who come together to care for others with compassion and bring the warmth and bliss of this holiday season to our family, our friends, our neighbors and to those in need,' President Trump noted. And Melania Trump chimed in: 'As we gather with loved ones this holiday, Americans across this land are grateful for all the men and women in uniform who keep us safe: our military, our police and everyone in law enforcement.' President Trump offered a final holiday greeting: 'We say a special prayer those for military service members stationed far from home and we renew our hope for peace among nations and joy to the world. On behalf of the entire Trump family we wish everyone a very joyous and Merry Christmas and a very happy happy New Year.' The Trumps are spending the holiday season at their home in Mar-a-Lago, dining with friends and family at the Winter White House Tuesday night.  Donald Trump got up from his family Christmas Eve dinner to greet Alan Dershowitz amid reports the famed attorney could join the president's impeachment team.  Trump got up from his table, where he was seated next to first lady Melania Trump, to walk over and talk to Dershowitz after reports his legal team has discussed bringing Dershowitz on board to help with the president's impeachment trial in the Senate. 'I was a guest of friends of mine. Not part of the Trump Christmas party. The president came over to say hello to me and my wife. We wished each other happy holidays,' Dershowitz told DailyMail.com in a statement.  The first couple was attending their annual Christmas Eve dinner in the ballroom at Trump's Mar-a-Lago estate, a party filled with an odd assortment of guests, including some family members, a Russian hockey player, and a controversial former Navy Seal.  The gilded room was filled with guests but the Trumps were separated from most of them by a velvet rope line.  A singer sang Christmas carols with a live band.  The president gave his guests his signature thumbs' up move.  Donald Trump Jr. and his girlfriend Kimberly Guilfoyle joined the party, as did Melania's parents.  The first couple turned the occasion into a red carpet moment - all it was missing was an actual red carpet.  The Trumps, followed by Melania's parents Viktor and Amalija Knavs, Donald Trump Jr., and Guilfoyle, walked up to the grand entry way, pausing before a rope line of reporters and photographers before heading inside to greet their guests.  'Merry Christmas everyone,' the president told reporters before he headed inside.   Also spotted at the party was the captain of the Washington Capitals hockey team, Alex Ovechkin, as was Eddie Gallagher, the Navy Seal to whom Trump restored his rank, and Gallagher's wife Andrea. The Gallaghers also attended a party at Mar-a-Lago over the weekend, where Eddie Gallagher gave the president 'a little gift from Mosul.'  Not at the party were Eric and Lara Trump. Lara Trump posted a photo on Instagram Tuesday evening of the couple with their two children with her family in North Carolina.  Additionally, Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump were in Paris and expected the rest of the Trump family at Mar-a-Lago Thursday.  Both couples had been at Mar-a-Lago over the weekend - Eric golfing with his father on Sunday and Ivanka Trump flew down to Mar-a-Lago with her father Friday night on Air Force One.  Meanwhile, Donald and Melania Trump also changed their church routine on Christmas Eve in the wake of the president's feud with an evangelical Christian magazine. The first couple attended the Family Church-Downtown in West Palm Beach on Tuesday night, spending the holiday occasion at the Baptist chapel. In past years, the Trumps have attended service at Bethesda by the Sea, an episcopal church near Mar-a-Lago, when they spent the Christmas and Easter holidays at the Winter White House. The president didn't answer when asked if he prayed for Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who he's mocked for saying she prayed for him. 'We’re going to have a great year,' he said when asked after the service.  The first couple sat in the third row of the church, listening as church members sang Christmas carols like 'O Little Town of Bethlehem,' 'Oh Come All Ye Faithful' and 'Have Yourself a Merry Little Christmas.' There were bible readings from the gospel of Luke.  Pastor Jimmy Scroggins focused his homily on the story of Jesus. 'There was no Secret Service. There was no motorcade. There was no gaggle of press,' he noted of Jesus' birth, stressing the humble origins of Jesus.  'The Bible says Jesus came to be a light in our world,' Scroggins said in his sermon. He charged the attendees to share the light of Jesus with the world.  At the conclusion of his words, the congregation lit candles and sang 'Silent Night.'  The Family Church is a Baptist Church, the same faith as Rev. Jerry Falwell, who visited the Trumps at Mar-a-Lago over the weekend.   Falwell and his wife were spotted mingling with the Trumps at their Mar-a-Lago estate Friday night in pictures posted on social media.   The president embraced Falwell after getting into a feud with the publishers of a prominent Evangelical Christian magazine founded by the legendary pastor Billy Graham. Falwell defended Trump in the fallout from the feud. The reverend went on 'Fox and Friends' - the president's favorite morning show - and said he found the magazine's remarks 'hypocritical,' adding it shows there is an 'elite establishment among the religious community.'  'I think it's hypocritical,' Falwell said. 'I think it's ironic also that Christianity Today, sort of a forgotten magazine from yesteryear, took the opportunity the week before Christmas to point out the difference between true Christianity and Pharisaical or judgmental Christianity and reminded us there is an elite establishment among the religious community just like there is in the government that's liberal, that's left-wing. And it's a group that — they think they are more moral and smarter than the rest of us.'  The Trumps were greeted at the church Tuesday night by Lead Pastor Jimmy Scroggins, his wife Kristin, and their son and daughter-in-law, James and Reilly.   Before the first couple left Mar-a-Largo, first lady Melania Trump called into NORAD's Santa Tracker to wish children a Merry Christmas. 'She spoke with several children from across the country and heard many of the items on their Christmas lists'. Mrs. Trump reminded the kids to put milk and cookies out for Santa, and wished each child and their families a very Merry Christmas,' White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham said in a statement.  Calling into the NORAD tracker is an annual tradition for the first family. But Trump caused a bit of controversy when he joined the call last year. 'Are you still a believer in Santa? ’Cause at 7, it’s marginal, right?,' he said while on the phone with one little boy.  The president did not participate in the call this year.   President Trump did call U.S. troops to thank them for their service and wish them a Merry Christmas on Tuesday morning before he left to spend the afternoon at his Trump International Golf Course. Trump's change in Christmas Eve churches came after he feuded with a prominent evangelical Christian magazine. The president said on Friday that Christianity Today, founded in 1956, has become a 'far left' periodical. The magazine's top editor wrote in an editorial published Thursday that the president should be removed from office because he has 'dumbed down the idea of morality.'   Trump thanked Franklin Graham, son of its legendary evangelical founder Billy Graham, for saying his father voted for the president before his death.  'Thank you to Franklin Graham for stating that his father, the late great Billy Graham, voted for me in the 2016 Election. I know how pleased you are with the work we have all done together!' Billy Graham, the famed revival preacher, died in 2018. Franklin Graham disclosed his father's voting preference in a Facebook post on Friday.  Additionally, Franklin Graham this week said his father would be 'disappointed' in the anti-Trump editorial the magazine published last week. 'My father supported Donald Trump, believed in Donald Trump and he actually voted for Donald Trump and if he were here today he would tell you that himself,' Graham told Raymond Arroyo on Fox News Channel's 'The Ingraham Angle.'  The offensive from the group of prominent evangelicals, including multiple members of Trump's evangelical advisory board, signaled a lingering awareness by the president's backers that any meaningful crack in his longtime support from that segment of the Christian community could prove perilous for his reelection hopes.  The Trump campaign responded by announcing an 'Evangelicals for Trump' event, which will take place on January 3 in Miami, while the president spends the holidays at his Mar-a-Lago resort.    There was no groundswell of new anti-Trump sentiment emerged among evangelicals in the wake of Christianity Today's editorial.  
