christianity
{ By Afp   Published:  13:56, 23 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7821849/Petitions-ban-controversial-new-Netflix-Messiah-anti-Islamic.html }
Netflix is facing a backlash over its controversial new show 'Messiah' which portrays a possible saviour as a prophet who leads 2,000 Palestinians into Israel.  More than 3,500 people have already signed a petition which condemns the series as 'evil and anti-Islamic propaganda'.   The series, which is due for release on January 1, imagines how modern society would react if a Messiah figure appeared today, spreading his message via social media.  Creator Michael Petroni says Netflix was 'nervous' when he approached them, but insisted he was 'super careful' in portraying the story.  He said: 'Yes it's provocative - the show is provocative. But provocative isn't offensive.'    Petroni insists the show 'doesn't set out to offend anyone.' 'It's not like I'm welcoming backlash,' he added. 'We expect that there's going to be a lot of noise around the show, and a lot of debate. I'm hoping for debate.' A Change.org petition has already been launched calling for a boycott of the show, describing it as 'evil and anti-Islamic propaganda.' It reads: 'This topic is rather sensitive and making a production like this will only have viewers forgetting the fact that this matter is not a joke.' The new Netflix series follows a 'Messiah' figure called Al Massih ad-Dajjal, played by the Belgian actor Mehdi Dehbi.  It is not clear what faith the enigmatic later subscribes to and whether he is a geniune savour or a con artist.  Referred to by some characters as 'Al-Masih', he plans to march 2,000 Palestinian Syrians across the border of Israel.  With his movement gathering global attention and momentum, CIA officer Eva Geller, played by American actress Michelle Monaghan, is sent to investigate.  The TV show has multiple narrators, including Officer Geller, an Israeli Shin Bet officer, a Palestinian refugee, a Latino preacher and his Texan daughter.   Muslim viewers on Twitter have slammed the show for its predictability and inauthentic representation of Islam. The main character's name translates as 'Anti-Christ or 'false Messiah' in Arabic making it easy for viewers in the Arab-speaking world to decipher the final outcome.  Some Twitter users claim to have been blocked by the official Netflix account for 'spoiling' a plot twist.      That concept included building a scale replica of part of Temple Mount including the sacred Dome of the Rock, from where Muslims believe the prophet Mohammed ascended to heaven.  Filming at the iconic site was never a remote possibility - particularly given the violent nature of the scene in the show's second episode.  Using a sacred location such as Temple Mount was necessary because it is a nexus of religion where Christianity, Islam and Judaism all converge, said Petroni.    'Obviously historically they don't meet up happily. But that is where they all meet up. And so to me as a location to a story that's about politics and religion, it was so symbolic.' Filming took place in Jordan as well as the US, with action switching between the Middle East, Texas and Washington DC - providing an additional set of challenges.  Other US shows such as 'Homeland,' which drew criticism over its portrayal of the Middle East and Muslims, have been embarrassed by cultural and linguistic pitfalls. That show saw a Hezbollah commander escort its heroine through a Berlin set doubling as a Syrian refugee camp, on which someone had graffitied in Arabic the words: 'Homeland is racist.' The first trailer for 'Messiah,' released earlier this month, drew ridicule from some Muslim viewers, who noted that the name 'Al-Masih' is used in Islamic theology by Dajjal, a false prophet comparable to the Antichrist. Netflix quickly moved to quash claims this was a spoiler - its Twitter account accurately noted 'That's not actually the character's name' - and plot details remain strictly embargoed. Petroni, an Australian whose father grew up in Egypt, does not speak Arabic, and neither did the directors - meaning the show had to hire an experienced and reliable team of translators and dialect coaches. 'We were super careful,' said Petroni.  
