christianity
{ By Jack Doyle, Associate Editor For The Daily Mail   Published:  22:30, 23 December 2019   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7822823/PM-vows-defend-persecuted-Christians-world-praises-NHS-working-Christmas.html }
Boris Johnson has vowed to defend persecuted Christians around the world and their 'right to practise their faith'. In his first Christmas message as Prime Minister, Mr Johnson said he wanted to remember those who were unable to celebrate the festival publicly or were jailed because of their religious beliefs. He said his Government would 'stand in solidarity' with Christians everywhere.  A dog accessory business has been inundated with orders thanks to Boris Johnson's pet Dilyn. Kim O'Donnell, 58, who runs Staffordshire-based Leo, Charley and Me, sent No 10 a gift package for Dilyn consisting of a Christmas lead, collar and bandana.  Dilyn wore the £40 set on polling day and now demand has soared.  Mrs O'Donnell said: 'My creations were all over the news – it was incredible.' In a video filmed in front of a Christmas tree in Downing Street, Mr Johnson said he wanted to wish everyone a 'merry little Christmas'. He added: 'It's that special time of year when, whatever has gone before, we can take an opportunity to celebrate all that is good in the world and to spend time with our friends and family. I hope you are all enjoying a wonderful break with your loved ones, sharing gifts and tucking into some delicious food.' The PM praised NHS workers, police and civil servants who are working through the holidays, and expressed his gratitude to members of the Armed Forces on deployments, and to their friends, family and children who have an 'empty chair at the table'. He stressed the day's religious significance, both in Britain and other countries: 'Christmas Day is, first and foremost, a celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ. It is a day of inestimable importance to billions of Christians. 'Today of all days, I want us to remember those Christians around the world who are facing persecution. 'For them, Christmas Day will be marked in private, in secret, perhaps even in a prison cell. As Prime Minister, that's something I want to change. Helping out at a homeless hostel yesterday, Boris Johnson vowed to 'work tirelessly' to bring rough sleeping to an end. The PM put on an apron and baker's hat to help make biscuits in the kitchens of the Marylebone Project in central London before handing them out to residents and volunteers. He spent an hour talking to women who had been forced to sleep on the streets, discussing with them how best to tackle the issue. The Government had earlier announced a £260million funding boost to fight homelessness. Mr Johnson said 'it cannot be right' that in the 21st century people are 'having to sleep on our streets'.  The extra funding will go to local services to help them save thousands from having to sleep rough.  It was announced yesterday that Mr Johnson will be spending Christmas in Downing Street with his partner Carrie Symonds and their dog Dilyn, and not Chequers, his official country residence in Buckinghamshire. 'We stand with Christians everywhere, in solidarity, and will defend your right to practise your faith.' Jeremy Corbyn also delivered what will be his last Christmas broadcast as Labour leader. Like his Conservative rival, Mr Corbyn paid tribute to NHS staff for their hard work. But he also railed against inequality which he said was 'in very plain sight' during the festive season. He said: 'While we celebrate being together, we are reminded of the many who will be alone and sadly lonely at Christmas' 'But our communities are built on generosity and the solidarity that comes from that. 'So we do not walk by on the other side.' Mr Corbyn also repeated his election slogan 'for the many, not the few' despite its failure to cut through in this month's disastrous election defeat.  A Foreign Office report this year found that Christians are the 'most persecuted' religious group. The study, by the Bishop of Truro Philip Mounstephen warned they were being driven out of the Middle East in a 'modern day exodus'.  It revealed 'shocking' evidence that Christianity could be wiped out in parts of the world 'where its roots go back furthest'. Around 245million Christians suffer 'high levels of persecution' in 50 countries, a rise of 30million year on year, it found.  The Archbishop of Canterbury has also complained that the freedoms granted to Muslims in Britain are not matched by the treatment of Christians in the Middle East. At Easter, a wave of suicide terror attacks on luxury hotels and churches in Sri Lanka killed nearly 300 people. The Christmas message video will be posted on Mr Johnson's Twitter feed and elsewhere on social media. 
