sport football
{  
    February 01 2013 12:38 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/sport/stars-of-the-past-29035467.html }
MICK CULLEN (INSURGENTS AND GOH) MICK HARPUR (BANNOW-BALLYMITTY) One of Bannow-Ballymitty's most dependable defenders during the '60s, '70s and well into the '80s was the likeable Mick Harpur. During his football career he was an impassable rampart whether he was playing in the No. 4 or No. 6 jersey. He was an excellent marker and very strong and could move quickly. His determination, his will to win and his courage stood to him in good stead over two and a half decades. Mick, who resides at Lacken a few miles from Duncormick, had a telepathic understanding with the rest of his defenders. His willingness to go through fire and water for his beloved Bannow-Ballymitty club Mick Cullen from J.K.L. Place in New Ross was a most reliable, courageous and determined defender, first with the Insurgents and later Geraldine O'Hanrahans. He played with the former from 1956 to 1959. The club disbanded in 1960 and Mick then started playing with Geraldine O'Hanrahans. He played the majority of his hurling in the full-back line, especially at left corner-back. His tenacious tackling, his never-say-die attitude, his commitment and his ability to read situations when danger threatened his territory were masterly. In close exchanges around his goal area he repeatedly came out with the ball in his possession to get in a telling clearance. His finest hour in club colours was for Geraldine O'Hanrahans versus Bennettsbridge in a tournament game in the early '60s. At left corner-back he gave a sparkling display and was the master tactician. He covered his side of defence with close marking, first-time ground hurling and never allowed his opponent any freedom of movement. Mick was born in 1934 and was educated at St. Michael's N.S., New Ross. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe who was gifted in both codes. Tom Neville (Geraldine O'Hanrahans) was also a brilliant dual player. Mick played Juvenile hurling and football with Geraldine O'Hanrahans. One of the most exciting games that he played in was the clash between Insurgents and Camross in the 1956 New Ross District Junior hurling semi-final, Camross winning by 5-6 to 4-2 after a replay. His two brothers, Tom and Ned, and his son, Paul, all played with the Geraldine O'Hanrahans. His late father, Pat, was another who played the game with pride. Mick spent a short time in the States in 1962. The four hurlers he selects as the best he has seen playing with Geraldine O'Hanrahans were the late Martin Lyng, Tom Neville, Jimmy O'Brien and Ned Colfer. The four hurlers he selects as the most dificult that he played on in his career were Dick Murphy (Faythe Harriers), the late Fintan Doyle (Camross), the late Jim Dyce ( Camross) and Jimmy Purcell (Clongeen). The two players he selects as the best he has seen in hurling in Ireland were the late Bobby Rackard and Henry Shefflin. The two players he selects as the best he has seen in hurling in Wexford were the late Bobby Rackard and Ned Wheeler. He won no medals during his career but he did enjoy playing the game and he was an outstanding footballer with Insurgents and Geraldine O'Hanrahans. The best game of hurling he has seen in Wexford was Geraldine O'Hanrahans versus Fethard in the 1980 Co. Junior 'B' game. His favourite position when playing hurling was corner-back. Two of the best goalies he has seen in hurling over the years were Damien Fitzhenry (Wexford) and Brendan Cummins (Tipperary), and the greatest overhead striker he has seen in hurling was Ned Wheeler. Of the present-day hurlers he selects all Kilkenny players as the best - Tommy Walsh, Henry Shefflin and Richie Power. The best club side he has seen in hurling in Wexford was Buffers Alley in the '70s and '80s. was praiseworthy. He was born in 1941 and was educated at Duncormick N.S. and Bridgetown V.S. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. He made his debut with the club at adult level in 1961 and finished in 1988. He won one Co. Junior football medal with St. Mary's (Bannow) in 1969 and one Co. Intermediate medal with Bannow-Ballymitty in 1975. Mick was the club Secretary for 15 years and a lifelong committee member. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Joe Foley (Ballyhogue). Mick's three brothers - Jack, Leo and Matty - also played the game with pride. The two best footballers he has seen in Ireland over the years were Mick O'Connell (Kerry) and Seán O'Neill (Down), and in Wexford - Mick Carty (Castletown) and Louis Rafter (Duffry Rovers). The best game of football he has seen in Wexford was Castletown versus Ballyhogue in the Co. Senior final drawn game in 1965. He played Juvenile football with Bannow, St. Anne's in 1957 and Minor football with Ballymitty/Taghmon in 1958 and 1959. The best dual player he has seen in Ireland was the late Des Foley (Dublin). The best individual display he has seen at club level was by Mick Carty (Castletown) in several games for his club. The six footballers he would select as the best he has seen playing with BannowBallymitty were Watty French, Fintan Campbell, Pat Neville, Rich Neville, Francis Cullen and Paddy Bennett. The three footballers he would select as the most difficult that he has played on with his club were Mickel Furlong (Taghmon), James McDonald (Ramsgrange) and Mick Millar (Starlights). The most exciting game of football that he played in was the Junior championship final in 1969 with St. Mary's (Bannow). The three best footballers he has seen in Ireland in the last ten years were Colm Cooper (Kerry), Ciarán McDonald (Mayo) and Brian Dooher (Tyrone). The three best footballers he has seen in Wexford in the last ten years were Matty Forde (Kilanerin), Leigh O'Brien (Horeswood) and Redmond Barry (St. Anne's). The greatest goalkeeper he has seen in football was Martin Furlong (Offaly). The greatest club team he has seen in Wexford football was Duffry Rovers. His finest hour in the Bannow-Ballymitty colours was with St. Mary's (Bannow) in the 1969 Co. Junior football final. At corner-back he excelled with his superb vision, his composure, his clever attributies and his long deliveries making him a star on this occasion. MICK WICKHAM (DAVIDSTOWN-C'CUDDY) One of Davidstown-Courtnacuddy's most consistent dual players over the years was Mick Wickham. In both hurling and football he excelled in a number of positions. His wholehearted, energetic endeavour and his non-stop running were features of his play. Whether in the air or on the ground, he handled the ball with the utmost efficiency. He was python-swift in his running and clever in his movements. His concentration was brilliant and his composure in the most hectic struggles stamped him out as a player who excelled at both games. Mick had great anticipation and was always very strong and assured. He was born in 1941 and was educated at Davidstown N.S. and Enniscorthy C.B.S. His boyhood hero was Nickey Rackard R.I.P. His brother, Tony, received a Seana Ghael award in 2010. Another two brothers, Jimmy and Jackser, were also excellent players. Mick played Juvenile and Minor hurling with Davidstown in the late '50s. The greatest goalie he has seen in football was Paddy Cullen (Dublin). The best dual players he has seen were Des Foley R.I.P. (Dublin) and Phil Wilson. Liam Kehoe (Davidstown-Courtnacuddy) was another brilliant player in both hurling and football. The three greatest footballers he has ever seen were Jack O'Shea, Mick O'Connell and Brian Mullins. In Wexford, Andy Merrigan R.I.P., Joe Foley and Matty Forde were superstars. Mick first played adult football with Davidstown-Courtnacuddy in 1969 and finished up in 1980. He was a selector and committee member also with the club. One of his finest hours playing football with his club was versus the Starlights in the 1972 championship. He played a blinder that day and covered himself in glory. The four footballers he would select as the best he has seen playing with Davidstown-Courtnacuddy were Ned Frayne, Willie Frayne, Phil Kearns and Jimmy Wickham. The best game of football he has seen was Castletown against Ballyhogue in the 1965 Co. final drawn game. The Rathnure Senior hurling team in the early '70s was the best team he has seen playing in Wexford. He won two Enniscorthy District Intermediate hurling medals in 1978 and 1979. He won three Intermediate Enniscorthy District final medals in football in 1970, 1971 and 1972. Some of the best and most exciting games of hurling he has seen over the years were between St. Bennan's and Hollow Rangers in the late 1950s. Of the present-day footballers he selects Colm Cooper of Kerry, Michael Murphy of Donegal and Alan Brogan (Dublin) as the ones that impressed him the most. In hurling, Joe Canning of Galway and Henry Shefflin of Kilkenny are superstars. MICKEY BERNS (GOREY WOLFE TONES) From 1958 to 1969 Mickey Berns from Eire Street in Gorey town was a livewire and elusive forward for the Gorey Wolfe Tones in hurling and the Gorey Blues in football. He started his career playing both codes with the Young Emmets, Juvenile in 1954 and 1955 and Minor in 1956 and 1957. He was born in 1939 and was educated at Gorey C.B.S. His boyhood hero was the late Jim English. Mickey normally played in a forward position where his dashing style and speedy movements made many a headache for the opposing defender. In every game he played in he strove valiantly and courageously to keep his team in the limelight. Most times he was fighting a losing battle as the teams in the District at that time were quite good, especially in hurling. Every individual played his heart out for the club, but most times that effort was to no avail. However, he enjoyed every game, win or lose. His finest game playing with the Gorey Wolfe Tones was versus Craanford in the 1963 District Junior championship. Although his side was hammered by a good St. Brendan's team, Mickey played his heart out at midfield. Whenever he tried hard to keep a supply of balls to his forwards the winners' defence was much too strong. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was the late Nickey Rackard. Another fine dual player was Oliver Cullen. The best underage hurler he has seen in Gorey was Oliver Gough and in football Bill Owley. The best individual display he has seen in the Gorey District was given by the late Jimmy Hobbs for the Wolfe Tones versus Ballygarrett in the 1955 Junior District hurling final. He never won a medal in his career, but that didn't bother Mickey as he got so much enjoyment in playing the game. But it would have been nice to have something to show at the end of your day. CONTINUED OPPOSITE CONTINUED FROM OPPOSITE PAGE The five hurlers he selects as the best he has seen playing with the Gorey Wolfe Tones were Jimmy Egan, the late Harry Doyle, the late Jimmy Hobbs, Michael Kennedy and Michael Murphy. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with the Gorey Wolfe Tones were Mylie Donohoe (Craanford), Paddy O'Connell (Kilanerin), Tommy Hawkins (Ferns) and Bill Doran (Buffers Alley). The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland were the late Jim English and Henry Shefflin (Kilkenny). The three hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford in the past 40 years were Seánie Kinsella (St. Enda's), Tony Doran and Mick Jacob. The best game of hurling he has seen in Wexford was in 1974, St. Enda's versus Crossabeg-Ballymurn in the Co. Intermediate final. He could recall events with memorable lucidity and had a wonderful memory, and that made him a valuable man to know for information. His service to the G.A.A. was not limited to the playing pitch and was a great follower in later years. The best goalie he has seen in hurling was Damien Fitzhenry. The best club hurling team he has seen in Wexford was Buffers Alley in the 1970s and 1980s. All through his life he was an active member of his beloved Gorey teams, holding many different positions. MICKEY SOMERS (GERALDINE O'HANRAHANS) Mickey Somers was a staunch and reliable goalkeeper and full-back in both hurling and football for his club, Geraldine O'Hanrahans. He started his hurling career with the club in 1956, losing the Intermediate final to the Faythe Harriers, and his last game in Wexford was versus Faythe Harriers in the 1965 Senior hurling championship second round, again losing out playing in goal. From his debut until his retirement he normally played full-back where he engaged with some of the best full-forwards in the county. Mickey was never overawed by any opponent that he came in contact with and he excelled in the bustle and close exchanges that took place around the goal area. After hurling so brilliantly over the years for his team, it was a big disappointment that he had to miss their great win in 1966 versus Shamrocks after a replay. Mickey was on business in the States - hence his absence for the big occasion and it was a severe blow. He was educated at New Ross C.B.S. His boyhood hero was Jim English R.I.P. His finest hour in the Geraldine O'Hanrahans colours was versus the Faythe Harriers in the 1962 Co. Senior hurling final. He was outstanding in this encounter playing at full-back. He cleared ball after ball and was very pleased with his overall performance. He was able to shadow his opponent and keep him in a position where he could do very little. Mickey was very strong, very sure and a great man to clear a ball with distance. When playing in goal the three forwards that were deadly around the goal area were Oliver McGrath, Tim Flood and Marks Redmond from the Shamrocks. He was a substitute on the Wexford Junior hurling team in 1958, losing to Kilkenny, and a substitute on the Wexford Junior football team which lost to Dublin in 1959. His career after leaving Wexford was with Na Fianna (Dublin), Junior Corn Ceitinn winners (1976), Junior League winners (1976), Senior hurling league winners (1977) and Senior hurling championship winners (1977). He first played hurling with Geraldine O'Hanrahans in 1956 at adult level and last played for them in 1965. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe. He had three brothers that also played - Seán, Seamus R.I.P. and Paddy R.I.P. The four hurlers he selects as the best he has seen playing with Geraldine O'Hanrahans were Tom Neville, Jimmy O'Brien, Ned Colfer and Martin Lyng R.I.P. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with Geraldine O'Hanrahans were Ned Wheeler, Tim Flood, Oliver McGrath and James Kent R.I.P. (Adamstown). The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland were Ollie Walsh R.I.P. and Bobby Rackard R.I.P. He won numerous medals during his career: one Junior football medal (1963), two Senior medals versus Bennettsbridge (tournaments), two C.B.S. league medals, and his four medals with Na Fianna in Dublin. The most exciting game of hurling that he played in was the Senior game versus Faythe Harriers playing on Ned Wheeler. His favourite position when playing was full-back. The best club team he has seen in hurling was the Rathnure team which won four-in-a-row in the early '70s. MOSIE MORRISSEY (GUSSERANE) Mosie Morrissey, who now resides in Co. Kildare, was for 15 years one of Gusserane O'Rahilly's finest dual players. He was a man who loved playing sports and watching Gaelic games. Although living many miles from Wexford, he never missed a game of importance in the county. A gentleman on and off the field, Mosie was tall and was exceptionally fast, and when he gained possession he was a difficult opponent to dispossess. He demolished the opposition with his high fielding and powerful upper body strength. Although strong and powerful, he never manhandled an opponent to gain him possession of the ball. He played Juvenile and Minor in both codes - football for Gusserane and hurling for Cushinstown. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe. He was also his boyhood hero. Mosie's finest hour playing with Gusserance was versus St. Anne's in the second replay of the 1965 Co. Junior football semifinal. At midfield he was masterly, playing with zest and winning everything around centrefield. His unlimited stamina and his wholehearted endeavour made him a warm favourite with his many followers. He was like a machine on two legs. His energetic style and his intelligent brain outsmarted all and sundry. He was born in 1940 and was educated at Gusserane N.S. and St. Peter's College. He played with St. Peter's in both hurling and football in 1961. He was a member of the Wexford Junior football panel that did so well in the 1963 series. The two finest footballers he has seen in Ireland were Mick O'Connell and Willie Bryan (Offaly). From Wexford, Paddy Kehoe and Matty Forde were the stars. Mosie played for many years with the New Ross District in the Senior hurling championship. He first played football with Gusserane in 1960 and last played with them in 1975, and most of that was at Senior level. He was also on the Wexford Minor football panel. The four footballers he selects as the best he has seen playing with Gusserane were Paddy Kehoe, John Joe Culleton R.I.P., Larry Larkin and Philip Wallace. The four footballers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with Gusserane were Mick Foley (Ballyhogue), Andy Merrigan R.I.P. (Castletown), Andy English and Paddy Meyler (Kilmore). He played Minor football with Wexford in 1960, losing to Kildare. He played Intermediate hurling as a substitute in 1965. He was on the Wexford panel for a number of years in football. He was selected on the Intermediate hurling and Junior football teams on the same day to play Kildare in football and Laois in hurling, playing centrefield on both teams in Carlow in 1972. He won one Senior football medal with Gusserane (1975), one Junior football medal with Gusserane (1965), five All-Ireland Garda hurling medals in a row with Dublin Garda, playing centrefield on all those teams. He played on Frank Cummins in one final and on Gus Lohan in another final. He also played on the Garda-Army hurling teams versus the Universities. In the early years he played hurling with Gusserane and around 1968 he transferred to Rathgarogue-Cushinstown for hurling only. He always played his football with Gusserane. NICK O'CALLAGHAN (INSURGENTS AND GOH) Nick O'Callaghan, who resides in Charleton Hill, New Ross, was for almost 15 years one of the top forwards in club hurling in the New Ross District championship. A tall and powerfully-built player, he was a free-scoring and highly-talented full-forward. Although he played in other positions in the forward line, it was at full-forward that he really excelled. His physique allowed him to win lots of possession around the goal area, and when he got within scoring range he usually got his name on the scoresheet. For such a man with his stature, his pace and control were top class and when he was on song his opponent found it hard to keep him in check. He started playing Junior hurling in 1955 with the New Ross Insurgents and played with them for a few years. Then he joined up with the Geraldine O'Hanrahans in 1958 and continued to play with them until he retired in 1970. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe. One of his finest hours playing with the Geraldine O'Hanrahans was versus the Shamrocks in the 1967 Co. Intermediate hurling semifinal when he registered four goals and four points, all from play. He proved a big problem for the Shamrocks defence and was unlucky not to have scored more during the hour and not to have bagged another couple of goals given that he was in such good form. He was resolute, competent, determined, mobile and strong. He played Juvenile hurling and football with the Insurgents in 1951 and 1952. He was born in 1936 and was educated at Michael St. N.S. and New Ross C.B.S. He started playing with Geraldine O'Hanrahans in 1958 and continued with them until he retired in 1970. He played in the Factory League well into his mid-40s. He played Minor hurling and football with Geraldine O'Hanrahans in 1953 and 1954. He had one brother, James, who also played. The best individual display he has seen at club level was by Jimmy O'Brien in the 1966 Geraldine O'Hanrahans win versus the Shamrocks in the county final replay. The three hurlers he would select as the best he has seen playing with Geraldine O'Hanrahans were Mick Morrissey R.I.P., Tom Neville and Martin Lyng R.I.P. The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen playing with Insurgents were John Wall R.I.P. and John Maddock R.I.P. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult he played on while with Geraldine O'Hanrahans were Jim Dyce R.I.P. (Camross), Billy Rackard R.I.P., Jim Wickham (Adamstown) and Joe English (Rathnure). The two hurlers he would select as the best he has seen in Ireland were Tony Wall (Tipperary) and Eddie Keher (Kilkenny). The two hurlers he would select as the best he has seen in Wexford were Bobby Rackard R.I.P. and Tim Flood. His dad, Jim O'Callaghan R.I.P., played with O'Hanrahans in the '20s. Nick won one Co. Special Junior hurling championship versus Davidstown/Ballyhogue in 1967. The most exciting game of hurling that he played in was in 1956 with Insurgents versus Camross in the District semi-final which was a drawn game of 3-1 each. He was one of the top footballers in New Ross, playing at midfield or centre halfforward where his height and strength made many an opponent obsolete. NOEL MATTHEWS (STARLIGHTS) Noel Matthews, originally from Navan in Co. Meath and now residing in Templescoby a few miles from Enniscorthy, was in his playing days a tower of strength in his role as a full-back with the Starlights. As a member of An Garda Síochána he arrived in Enniscorthy in the mid-'60s and it wasn't long after that he became a regular with the famous Enniscorthy club. He was a full-back in the same mould as the great Noel Tierney of Galway fame, masterly in the air, outjumping opponents by inches and firmly grasping the ball with glue-like hands. His long, raking clearances were a tremendous help to his teammates. With his upper body strength he was able to brush aside opponents with ease. However, he played every game fair and clean and he loved his football as he loved to win. Noel was one of the most likeable individuals that you could meet on and off the field. He always played the game with courage, guile, commitment and grandeur and was a model of consistency in his general play. He was also a top referee in the '70s and officiated at numerous Co. finals including both Senior finals in 1974. He was born in 1943 and was educated at Navan Primary School and St. Patrick's (Navan). His boyhood hero was Paddy O'Brien (Meath), one of the greatest full-backs he has ever seen. The two best dual players he has seen in Wexford were Oliver Cullen (Castletown and Liam Mellows) and Martin Quigley (Rathnure). One of the best goalies he has seen in football was Martin Furlong (Offaly). The four Starlights footballers he selects as the best he has seen playing with the club were Harry O'Connor R.I.P., Lar Rigley, Ger Collins and Michael Maher. The four best footballers he has seen in Ireland were Mick O'Connell (Kerry), Jack O'Shea (Kerry), Noel Tierney (Galway) and Peter McDermott (Meath). In his home county of Meath he won numerous medals in football with the Navan O'Mahony's. He also won a number of hurling medals with the club. Noel's finest hour playing with the Starlights was versus Davidstown-Courtnacuddy in the Enniscorthy District Junior football championship. He was in superb form, safe and assured in his handling, dependable and confident and completely dominated the exchanges around his territory. His tremendous clearances saw him win acclaim. He performed in this game like so many others, with commendable foresight and courage. His two sons, Colm and Paul, were outstanding dual players and his brother, Peter, also played the game with pride and passion. One of the best club teams he has seen in football in Wexford was the superb Duffry Rovers which won all before them from 1986 to 1992. The three greatest footballers he has seen in Wexford were Andy Merrigan R.I.P. (Castletown), Oliver Cullen (Castletown) and Pete Crowley R.I.P. (Sarsfields). Noel was both Chairman and Secretary of the Enniscorthy District in the '70s. The three most difficult opponents he encountered while playing with the Starlights were Pat Murphy R.I.P. (Ballyhogue), Fergie Duff R.I.P. (Kilmore) and Liam Kehoe (Davidstown-Courtnacuddy). Noel also played hurling with St. Aidan's and the Shamrocks during his playing days. NOEL RYAN (SHELMALIERS) Noel Ryan from Newtown Road in Wexford town was an outstanding hurler with the Shelmaliers club for almost 20 years. In his day he was a free-scoring, fast-moving and elusive forward. His rate of scoring was exceptionally good and he seldom went a game without getting a score or two for his team. Noel always seemed to be thinking a move ahead of his opponent and he had the ability to leave his marker stranded. When he got within the scoring range he was deadly in his finishing and on several occasions he made his mark on the scoreboard. He was a very intelligent player and his clever manoeuvering and his ball control made him a danger around the goal areas. He was born in 1938 and was educated in Castlebridge N.S. His boyhood hero was Eugene Cullen who was a star player around that time. The best dual player he has seen was Paddy Kehoe. One of Noel's finest games playing for the Shelmaliers was versus Parnells in the Wexford District Junior hurling final in the late '50s. He first played Junior hurling with the Shelmaliers in 1956 and finished his career with them in 1976 - 20 years at the top with the club he always wanted to play for. CONTINUED OVERLEAF FROM PREVIOUS PAGE The Castlebridge area was always to the forefront in hurling and had a proud tradition for over a century. Noel was a Chairman of the Shelmaliers club for a few years and was a selector too. The players who were his favourite in the great team of the '50s were Bobby and Nickey Rackard (both deceased), Tim Flood and Jim English R.I.P. His finest hour in the Shelmaliers colours was versus St. Fintan's in the 1961 Junior hurling District final in the drawn game. His composure, vision, fluency and skill all came to the fore in this encounter. His quick pick-up, the elusive body swerve, great ball control and his alertness all combined to make him a star on the day. The best individual display he has seen at club level was by Ollie Hearne for the Shelmaliers in the 1966 Co. Junior hurling final versus Oulart-The Ballagh. The four Shelmaliers hurlers he would select as the best he has seen playing with them were Eugene Cullen, Ollie Hearne, Pat O'Leary R.I.P. and Chris McGrath. The four hurlers he would select as the most difficult he played on while with the Shelmaliers were Pat Donohoe (Crossabeg-Ballymurn), Pat Murphy R.I.P. (St. Fintan's), Paddy Parle (Our Lady's Island) and Phil Maddock (St. Martin's). The two hurlers he would select as the best he has seen in Wexford were Nickey Rackard R.I.P. and Larry O'Gorman. The two hurlers he would select as the best he has seen in Ireland were Tommy Walsh (Kilkenny) and D.J. Carey (Kilkenny). He played Minor hurling with Shelmaliers in 1955-1956. He also won a Junior District medal. The best game of hurling he has seen in Wexford was the Co. Senior final with Rathnure versus Buffers Alley in 1986. He played Juvenile hurling with the Shelmaliers in 1954. The most exciting game of hurling that he played in was the 1966 Co. Junior final. The best club team he has seen in hurling in Wexford was the St. Aidan's team in the '50s, and the best goalie he has seen was Tony Reddan. PADDY KENNEDY (HORESWOOD) Paddy Kennedy, who resides in Dunganstown a few miles from New Ross, was in his day one of Horeswood's outstanding hurlers. At centre half-forward, his normal position with the club, he was forceful, dynamic and resolute in all his outings on the hurling fields. His pace, his stickplay, his enthusiasm and vigour made him a player of immense importance to his club. He was born in 1939 and was educated at Ballykelly N.S. and New Ross C.B.S. His first game at adult level was versus Rathnure in the 1958 Co. Intermediate hurling championship which they won by 4-8 to 2-4. He played Minor and Juvenile hurling with Horeswood in the early '50s and was outstanding in both grades. He played regularly for his club with grandeur, operating at centre half-forward. Most defenders found it hard to contain him because he was always full of running and was physically strong and determined to gain possession and set up a chance for his team. One of his finest games playing with Horeswood was versus Cloughbawn in the 1961 Co. Intermediate hurling final replay. At centre half-forward he was a revelation whose timely solo runs and speed of thought tore holes in the Cloughbawn defence time and time again, while his distribution of the ball was also admirable. He got great joy out of that win because he collected his first Co. medal. Paddy had another brilliant hour for Horeswood in the 1963 Co. Senior hurling semi-final versus the Hollow Rangers. Playing at centre-forward, he was in outstanding form. He played centre half-forward when Horeswood lost the 1963 Co. Senior hurling final to Oylegate united with Ballyhogue. He was also on the losing side again to OylegateGlenbrien in the 1959 Co. Intermediate hurling final (2-11 to 1-5). His last game for Horeswood was versus Davidstown-Courtnacuddy in the 1967 Co. Senior hurling championship first round replay. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe. The best dual player he has seen in Ireland was Des Foley R.I.P. (Dublin). The best game of hurling he has seen was the 1977 Co. Senior final with Buffers Alley versus Rathnure. The two greatest hurlers he has seen in Ireland were Bobby Rackard R.I.P. as a defender and Christy Ring R.I.P. as a forward. In Wexford, Nickey Rackard R.I.P. and Tim Flood were super. His boyhood hero was Nickey Rackard R.I.P. who was an inspiration to everyone. The four hurlers he selects as the best he has seen playing with Horeswood were John Cummins R.I.P., Dominic Hearn R.I.P., Dick Shannon and Tom Hartley. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with Horeswood were Ned Wheeler, John Nolan R.I.P., Tom Neville and Dan Quigley. The three hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland in the last ten years are John Mullane, D.J. Carey and Lar Corbett. The three hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford in the last ten years are Larry O'Gorman, Liam Dunne and Adrian Fenlon. The greatest goalkeeper he has seen in Ireland was Damien Fitzhenry. The greatest club team he has seen in Wexford hurling was Rathnure in the early '70s when they won four Co. Senior championships in a row. The late Mick O'Hanlon was the club's best dual player. PADDY O'GORMAN (PARNELLS/VOLS, R.I.P.) Paddy O'Gorman, who passed away in 2012, resided in Bishopswater in Wexford town and was an excellent hurler and footballer in his day. He played his football with the Volunteers and Dan O'Connells and his hurling wih the Volunteers and Parnells. He played most of his football in the right corner-back position. In his No. 2 jersey he always showed his authority early in play against his opponent. He was never flustered or hurried in his defensive role, remaining calm and cool under pressure. Paddy had the right attitude to every game and made sure he was first to the ball when it came in his direction. His fine covering, excellent fielding ability and his lengthy clearances were all features of his play. He was born in 1934 and was educated at Wexford C.B.S. His idol in football was Mick O'Connell (Kerry). The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Nickey Rackard R.I.P. One of the most exciting games he played in was for the Parnells (39) versus St. Martin's (4-4) in the Wexford District Junior hurling final in 1958. One of his best games playing with the Volunteers footballers was in the 1957 District final versus St. Martin's which ended in a draw. St. Martin's won the replay by 2-6 to 1-6. He played brilliantly for the full hour. His alertness and vision around his area were first class and he handled every ball with confidence and composure. His sons, Larry and Paddy Jnr., were brilliant players also, with Larry winning All-Ireland honours with Wexford in 1996. The three hurlers who impressed him the most in Wexford's All-Ireland Senior win were Liam Dunne, Martin Storey and his son, Larry. The best dual player he saw in Ireland was Des Foley R.I.P. (Dublin). He first played football at Junior level with the Volunteers in 1952 and had his last game with them in 1959. He last played football in 1967 with the Dan O'Connells. The best individual display he saw at club level was by Frank Morris with the Volunteers in 1956 in the Co. Senior football win versus Ballyhogue. The four footballers he selected as the best he saw playing with the Volunteers were Willie Goodison R.I.P., John Morris R.I.P., John O'Connor R.I.P. and James 'Muss Tyghe' Gethings R.I.P. The four footballers he selected as the most difficult that he played on while with the Volunteers or Dan O'Connells were Tony O'Leary (Volunteers), Fergus Duff R.I.P. (Kilmore), Pete Tobin R.I.P. (Ballymitty) and Fr. Jackie McCabe R.I.P. (Young Irelands). The two football players he selected as the best he saw in Ireland were Mick O'Connell (Kerry) and Dermot Earley R.I.P. (Roscommon). Parnells hurlers that impressed him most were Larry Donnelly, Jim Crowley R.I.P., John Crowley R.I.P. and Paddy Meyler. He won no medals in his long career but got great enjoyment out of playing both games. The best game of football he has seen in Wexford was the Volunteers versus Sarsfields in the 1959 District Junior final. He played Juvenile hurling with the Davitts and Juvenile football with the Volunteers in 1950. He also played Minor hurling with the Volunteers and the Davitts in 1952. His idol in hurling was Nickey Rackard. PADDY PARLE (OUR LADY'S ISLAND) Paddy Parle from Tacumshane near Broadway was one of the longest-serving members of Our Lady's Island hurling and football teams. For 30 years he played both games with pride and passion, and when he retired in 1989 I am sure he was pleased with a job well done. Paddy played his hurling at centre half-back and centrefield, and was in goal for the footballers for a while. Performances no matter what sector he lined out in were always wholehearted and with the right attittude he could move into open spaces and he had a natural ability about everything he achieved on the Gaelic fields. He had a superb temperament laced with courage and skill. When playing in the back line he was calm and confident and moved with cohesiveness, guile and vigour. In midfield his running skill, his ball control and his endless energy caused many headaches for the opposition. He was born in 1942 and was educated in Tacumshane N.S. His boyhood hero was Nickey Rackard. His brother, Johnny, also played with him in both hurling and football for Our Lady's Island. He played Juvenile hurling and football with St. Fintan's in 1958 and Minor hurling with St. Mary's (Rosslare) in 1960. The best dual player he has seen in Ireland was Jimmy Barry Murphy (Cork). His best game of hurling for Our Lady's Island was in a 1975 Wexford District league final versus Blackwater which his team won. Playing at centre halfback, he was the master. He was glue-like in his marking, forceful in his tackling and possessed a good, long directed delivery from his No. 6 position. His favourite position when playing hurling was centre half-back. He played in several positions for the footballers, but like in hurling centre half-back was his favourite position. Bobby Kearns was the best dual player he has seen playing for Our Lady's Island and Willie Foley R.I.P. was the best he has seen in the county. He first played football and hurling with Our Lady's Island in 1959 and last played both codes for them in 1989. He was a selector for football and hurling with Our Lady's Island. The best individual display he has seen at club level was by Donald Doyle in goal for Our Lady's Island versus St. Fintan's in the Wexford District hurling final in 1962. He played Junior football for Wexford in 1968 and 1969. One uncle, Jack Parle R.I.P., also played for Our Lady's Island. The two hurlers he would select as the best he has seen in Wexford were Nickey Rackard R.I.P. and Joe Foley (Ballyhogue). He won one Co. Junior hurling medal in 1962, five District league football medals from 1977 to 1981 and one hurling medal in 1975. The best game of hurling he has seen in Wexford was the Shamrocks (45) versus Buffers Alley (2-14) in the 1967 Senior semi-final. The five hurlers he would select as the most difficult he played on while with Our Lady's Island were Larry Whelan (Blackwater), Pat Murphy R.I.P. (St. Fintan's), Phil Maddock (St. Martin's). Jimmy Finn (St. Fintan's) and Joe Foley (Ballyhogue). The five Our Lady's Island hurlers he would select as the best he has seen playing with them were Michael Griffin, Terence O'Leary, Billy Devereux R.I.P., Johnny Parle and Bob Kearns. PADDY WICKHAM (DAVIDSTOWN-C'CUDDY) When G.A.A. top performers are mentioned in Wexford, the name that quickly comes to mind is Paddy Wickham. This is only fitting for a man who has given his whole life for the benefit of the association. Loyality, dedication, tact, wisdom and integrity all could be attributed to this man who resides at Tomnalossett a few miles from Enniscorthy. His outstanding ability as an official and administrator and G.A.A. knowledge of rules etc. is second to none. He is Vice-Chairman of the present Seana Ghael committee - a position he serves with courtesy and aplomb. In his playing days he was one of Ballyhogue's finest defenders, playing at right corner-back. He assisted the club to win the 1961 Co. Junior football championship and in 1962 and 1963 he won Co. Senior football medals. He missed out on the 1964 victory because he had retired. He made a brief return in 1966 to play in the Special Junior football competition. He was born in 1938 and was educated at Bree N.S. His boyhood hero was Nickey Rackard R.I.P. Paddy played his under-age games with Ballyhogue in football and the Ballinavarry Emmets in hurling. The list of achievements as an official and administrator reads like an encyclopedia. Club representative on the District committee since 1970, Co. Board member since 1974, District Chairman from 1983 to 1989, club Secretary from 1978 to 1993, club Chairman 2001, rep. on Leinster Council from 1984 to 1993 and 2001 to 2009, Central Council rep. since 2010, selector in the club in all grades from Under-12 upwards, selector with Wexford Co. teams - 1982 Minor football, 1971 Junior football and again from 1984 to 1993, Senior football in 1988, 1991 and 1999. He was Chairman of the county fixtures committee from 1989 to 1993, Chairman of transfers and grading for a number of years, and Co. Chairman from 1994 to 2001. The best game of football that he has seen in Wexford was the 1968 Senior final with St. Anne's versus Castletown. The best individual display that he has seen in Wexford in football at club level was by Mick Carty (Castletown) in the 1973 Senior final. The game he would select as having his finest hour playing with Ballyhogue was in the 1956 Minor football final replay. The four footballers he would select as the best he has seen playing with Ballyhogue were Mickey Byrne R.I.P., Nick Doyle, Phil Wilson and Pat Leacy. The three footballers he would select as the most difficult that he played on while with Ballyhogue were Pete Crowley R.I.P. (Sarsfields), Seán Sheridan (Castletown) and Larry Bird (Fethard). PAT BROWNE (FAYTHE HARRIERS) Pat Browne, who resides in Mulgannon in Wexford town, was, for the short number of years he played the game of hurling, an outstanding figure at half-back for the Faythe Harriers team. After winning three county Senior hurling medals with the club in 1960, 1962 and 1965 plus one Leinster Intermediate hurling medal with Wexford as a substitute in 1965, he decided to give up the game much to the surprise of his many followers. Everyone believed there was still plenty of years left in this talented and wholehearted player. However, he decided to retire and this had to be accepted by all and sundry. Pat loved his hurling and his loss to the Faythe Harriers club was immense. In defending his patch he was a sticking plaster in his marking, had great vision, a good attitude and a good long delivery out of defence. CONTINUED OPPOSITE CONTINUED FROM OPPOSITE PAGE He was born in 1942 and was educated at Wexford C.B.S. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. He played Juvenile hurling with the Faythe Harriers in 1957 and 1958 and Juvenile football with the Blue and Whites in 1957. He played Minor hurling with the Faythe Harriers in 1957, 1958, 1959 and 1960. He was on the Wexford Minor panel in hurling in 1960 and with the Wexford Intermediate hurlers in 1965. The two best dual players he has seen in Wexford were Phil Wilson and Tommy Nolan. The two best dual players he has seen in Ireland were Jimmy Barry Murphy (Cork) and Des Foley R.I.P. (Dublin). In the past 20 years the three hurlers that impressed him most were Liam Dunne, Larry O'Gorman and Rory McCarthy. Of the present-day hurlers the three he selects as outstanding are Tommy Walsh, Lar Corbett and Joe Canning. The greatest goalie he has ever seen was the late Ollie Walsh. Pat's finest hour playing with the Faythe Harriers was versus Geraldine O'Hanrahans in the 1965 Co. Senior hurling semi-final at right half-back. He had a blinder, clearing his lines repeatedly. The greatest hurling club team he has seen in Wexford were St. Aidan's of Enniscorthy in the 1950s. The best individual display he has seen at club level was given by Mick Jacob (Oulart-The Ballagh) in the 1974 Co. Senior hurling final versus Rathnure. The four hurlers he selects as the best he has seen playing with the Faythe Harriers were Oliver McGrath, the late Seamus Quaid, Jack Cullen and Ned Wheeler. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with the Faythe Harriers were the late Padge Kehoe (St. Aidan's), Tom Neville (Geraldine O'Hanrahans), Seamus Whelan (St. Martin's) and Hughie O'Connor (Geraldine O'Hanrahans). The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland were Mick Roche (Tipperary) and Jimmy Doyle (Tipperary). The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Tim Flood and the late Billy Rackard. The best game of hurling that he has seen in Wexford was the Co. final in 1968 with the Faythe Harriers playing against Buffers Alley and losing by 5-6 to 4-8. He played club football with the Faythe Harriers, winning one Co. Senior medal in 1960 as a substitute. PAT DOYLE (DUFFRY ROVERS) Pat Doyle in his hurling days was an exceptionally talented forward, first with Caim-Kiltealy and then the Duffry Rovers. He was originally from Monbeg in the parish of Ballindaggin and is now residing in Croneyhorn, Carnew. In his hurling days he played with great energy, courage, enthusiasm and style. He normally played his hurling wearing the No. 11 jersey, a position where he encountered some of the best centre half-backs in the Junior grade. In his role he could attack, create, score and win ball. Pat had an indomitable amalgam of strength, resilience and ability. He had a desire for excellence and was unwilling to settle for mediocrity. It was immaterial how the ball came to him; let it be high or low, he invariably collected it and set his co-forwards into motion. One of his finest hours playing in the club colours was versus Oylegate-Glenbrien. In this game he caused endless problems for defenders when he ran at them with speed and control. He was born in 1939 and was educated at Ballindaggin N.S. His boyhood hero was Nickey Rackard R.I.P. He first played adult hurling with the old Caim-Kiltealy in 1958 and finished up with the Duffry Rovers in 1966. One of the best goalies he has seen in hurling was Damien Fitzhenry. The best dual player he has seen in Ireland was Des Foley R.I.P. (Dublin) and the best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Phil Wilson. Of the former Caim-Kiltealy team, Tom Roche, Joe Foley, Henry King R.I.P. and Tom Dunne R.I.P. were super hurlers. The best hurlers he has seen over the past 40 years were Tony Doran and Mick Jacob for Wexford and Tommy Walsh and Henry Shefflin for Kilkenny. The best club team he has seen in Wexford was Buffers Alley when they won a number of Co. titles during the '70s and '80s. He was a committee member with the club for a number of years. The best individual display he has seen at club level in Wexford was by Tony Doran in a number of games for his club and county. The four Duffry Rovers players he would select as the best he has seen with them over the years were Mick Delaney, Jim Earle, Seán Doyle and Jim Cooper. The four hurlers he would select as the most difficult that he played on while with the Duffry Rovers were Johnny Crean (Hollow Rangers), Jimmy Nolan (Davidstown-Courtnacuddy), Tony Byrne (Oulart-The Ballagh) and Bill Doran (Buffers Alley). The best game of hurling that he has seen in Wexford was Buffers Alley versus Rathnure in the Co. Senior final in 1988 in a drawn game. He also played Minor hurling with Marshalstown in 1957. Of the great Wexford team of the '50s, Tim Flood, Ned Wheeler, Bobby Rackard R.I.P., Nickey Rackard R.I.P. and Billy Rackard R.I.P. were all his favourites. His brother, Michael, also played the game with the Duffry Rovers. Pat was delighted when the Duffry Rovers won the 1969 Co. Intermediate hurling title, especially for the lads who had all tried so hard in previous years to win something. PAT MURPHY (BUFFERS ALLEY) Pat Murphy came from a well-known sporting family, the Murphys from Court near Monamolin. Pat like his brothers, Joe, Liam, Michael and Jimmy, all played the games of hurling and football with Buffers Alley. Joe and Liam were previous Seana Ghael award winners. Pat played most of his hurling at right half-back or at midfield. In both positions he played some excellent hurling for his club, where he showed some courage, guile and determination. His workrate was exemplary and his vision, distribution and coolness marked him out as a top-class hurler. He could be described as a top man in his position where his tight, vigilant covering left very little leeway for his opponent to prosper from. Pat tried at all times to be first to the ball when it came in his direction. His finest hour in the Buffers Alley colours was versus Rathnure in the 1965 Co. Intermediate hurling championship. He was positive, intelligent, clever, commanding and put on a master-class performance for the full hour. He was born in 1934 and was educated at Monamolin N.S. and Kilmuckridge V.S. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe. He would also class Paddy along with the late Des Foley R.I.P. (Dublin) as the two best dual players he has ever seen. Pat Nolan, his brother-in-law, was the greatest goalie he has ever seen and Buffers Alley was the best club he has seen in Wexford. Pat played hurling with Buffers Alley from 1954 to 1968. The two greatest hurlers he has ever seen were Bobby Rackard R.I.P. as a defender and Christy Ring R.I.P. as a forward. In Wexford the three Jacob brothers and Tim Flood were brilliant. In later years he admired the hurling skills of Dan Quigley, Liam Dunne, Mick Jacob and Tony Doran. Of the present-day hurlers, Henry Sheflin, Tommy Walsh, Richie Power and Lar Corbett are all brilliant. The best individual display he has seen at club level was by Tony Doran for Buffers Alley against the Faythe Harriers in 1973. The four hurlers he selects as the best he has seen playing with Buffers Alley were Tony Doran, Bill Murphy, Joe Murphy and Bill Doran. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with Buffers Alley were Dan Wafer (Ballygarrett), Patsy Morris (St. Patrick's, Ballyoughter), Dan Kenny (Craanford) and Paddy Moynihan R.I.P. (Ferns). He won one Co. Intermediate medal in 1965. The best game of hurling that he has seen in Wexford was Rathnure versus Buffers Alley in the 1988 Co. Senior final drawn game. He played Juvenile for Oulart for one year around 1950 and played Minor with Buffers Alley in the early '50s. He played 14 years for Buffers Alley. The best player he played on was Tommy Hawkins of Ferns. He was a top-class footballer also with his club, Buffers Alley, playing in many positions for the team. He is the father of the well-known horse trainer, Colm Murphy. One of the great goals he has seen scored was by Tony Doran versus Rathnure in the 1973 Co. Senior hurling final. He beat four defenders but the score was disallowed. P.J. DALY (ST. BENNAN'S, DAVIDSTOWN) P.J. Daly, who originally came from Templescoby in the parish of Davidstown, was born in 1936 and was educated in Davidstown N.S. and Enniscorthy V.S. His boyhood hero was the late Bobby Rackard. His late father, Mick, was a big influence on the path of getting his son to be involved in Gaelic games. At the age of 14 years he joined up to play Juvenile hurling with the Mountain Slashers from Rathnure. The second year playing with the same club he won his first county medal when they defeated the hot favourites, the Faythe Harriers, in the Co. final. This was a joyous occasion for P.J., winning his first county medal. He played Juvenile for another year without success. He played Minor hurling for three years in 1952, 1953 and 1954 with Rathnure, losing in three District finals to the Starlights, Oulart and the Ballinavary Emmets. In 1952 he was selected as a substitute on the Wexford Minor hurling team and in 1953 and 1954 he made the team, on both occasions playing at centre half-forward. The No. 11 jersey was his favourite position when playing hurling. He played Junior club hurling with The Ballagh, Caim-Kiltealy and St. Bennan's (Davidstown), all of which he enjoyed immensely. The four hurlers that he found the most difficult to elude were Jack Hearne R.I.P. (Ardcolm), Mogue O'Leary (Oulart), Jim Carty (Starlights) and Martin Crowley R.I.P. (Faythe Harriers). For three years he was Secretary of the St. Bennan's club. In 1962 he was a selector with the Wexford Intermediate hurling team. Also in 1964, 1965, 1966, 1967 and 1972 he was a selector for Wexford in the same grade. It was a great day in 1964 when the county won the All-Ireland title in St. Patrick's Park versus London. The two best dual players he has seen in Wexford were Phil Wilson and Paddy Kehoe. Of the great Wexford teams of the '50s, Bobby Rackard R.I.P., Jim Morrissey R.I.P. and Tim Flood were his favourites. In later years Tony Doran, Mick Jacob, Joe Foley and Dan Quigley were superb. His late father, Mick Daly, and uncles, Patsy and Jimmy Daly, were star performers with the great Ballyhogue team in the '20s and early '30s. Although they clashed with the Starlights on a number of occasions, the two teams off the field were the best of friends for years after. The Ballyhogue team was a powerful force and, looking at the picture of the 1929 team, one would think that they were going to live forever. Father time sadly thought otherwise. P.J. was also an excellent opponent on the football field, playing Juvenile and Minor with his beloved Ballyhogue. When he put on his Blue and White jersey he was very proud to do so. One of his finest hours playing hurling was in the 1952 Minor versus St. Aidan's at The Leap were he scored 3-7, all from play. The footballers he found most difficult to handle were Milo Mahon (Starlights) and Tony Stack (Half Way House-Bunclody). The three greatest footballers he has seen in Ireland were Mick O'Connell (Kerry), Tony Tighe R.I.P. (Cavan) and Peter Canavan (Tyrone). In Wexford the late Willie Goodison and Paddy Kehoe were supreme for many years. He played Minor football with Wexford in 1953 and 1954. He was a founder member of the Seana Ghael committee in 1982. RICH FURLONG (RAHEENDUFF/ADAMSTOWN) Rich Furlong from Coonogue in the Adamstown area was for 20 years one of the club's most elusive, intelligent, speedy and clever forwards to play the game of hurling. He intertwined his hurling career between Raheenduff Moonlighters and Adamstown St. Abban's, winning medals with both clubs. With the Moonlighters he won one New Ross District Junior medal in 1965 and with Adamstown he won one Co. Intermediate hurling medal in 1971. He started his adult career playing with the Moonlighters in 1951 and finished up with Adamstown in 1971. He played most of his games at right half-forward where his speed, skill and his clever maneouvering excelled, and he always made space to show his expertise. He was blessed with an astute brain and ball control. Any opponent who had the task of marking him knew they were in a game at the final whistle. Rich was born in 1934 and was educated at Adamstown N.S. His boyhood hero was Nickey Rackard R.I.P. He was a selector with Adamstown in 1970. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe. The two best dual players he has seen in Ireland were Jimmy Barry Murphy (Cork) and Teddy McCarthy (Cork). One of his best games playing for the Raheenduff Moonlighters was versus Camross in the 1965 New Ross District Junior hurling final, winning the game by 4-8 to 2-4. The victory was a big surprise as Camross had a formidable team around that time. Rich played the game of his life. His elegant style was a delight to watch; he was resolute, positive and crafty. He contested every ball with vim and vigour and his control was top of the range. In the Co. semi-final they were a disappointment as the club lost to Na Fianna by 2-10 to 1-4. His brother, Michael, was the club's top scorer for the championship with 2-11. Another brother, Mosie, also played. The best individual display he has seen was by the late Willie Bierney for Na Fianna in the 1965 Co. Junior hurling semi-final versus Raheenduff Moonlighters. The four hurlers he would select as the best he has seen playing with Raheenduff Moonlighters were John Kehoe, Pat Harris, Patrick Fortune and John Murphy. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with Raheenduff Moonlighters and Adamstown St. Abban's were Seán Doyle R.I.P. (Camross), Jim Doran (Cushinstown), Jimmy Furlong (Adamstown) and Jack Harpur (Ballymitty). The two hurlers he would select as the best he has seen in Ireland were Pat Henderson (Kilkenny) and Eddie Keher (Kilkenny). The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Tim Flood and Nickey Rackard R.I.P. The best game of hurling he has seen in Wexford was the Faythe Harriers versus Rathnure in the 1979 Co. Senior championship in a drawn game and replay. He played Minor hurling and football with Adamstown in 1950 and 1951. The most exciting game of hurling that he played in was the New Ross District Junior final versus Camross in 1965. Rich's first taste of success was in 1950 when Raheenduff Moonlighters was the New Ross District Juvenile football title. This special four- part series will conclude next week with profiles on the following 16 Seana Ghael award winners: Richard Bird, Richie Peare, Robbie Jacob, Seán Breen, Seán Keeling, Seán O'Leary, Shay Foley, Tom Mooney, Tom O'Connor, Tom Ryan ( Tomcoole), Tom Ryan ( Gorey), Tommy Whelan, Wally O'Brien, Watt Sinnott, Willie Culleton, Willie Doyle. 
