sport football
{  
    July 22 2009 08:36 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/temp/grass-roots-27706522.html }
SARSFIELDS: A busy week is in store for the club, with the Juniors playing Taghmon-Camross in Killurin on Friday at 6.45 p.m., and the Seniors meeting Kilanerin in St. Patrick’s Park on Sunday at 7.30 p.m. The Under-21s are at home to Our Lady’s Island/St. Fintan’s in the District championship on Monday next at 7.30 p.m., while the Minor game against Volunteers was postponed by the County Board and our opponents subsequently gave a walkover. The last Minor match resulted in a 1-10 each draw with Adamstown. Hard luck to the Juveniles who squandered an eight-point half-time lead in their 2-12 to 4-5 loss to Naomh Éanna in Gorey on Monday of last week. However, they are still in contention to qualify and will play Starlights at home on August 10. Hard luck also to the Under-14s who went down away to Fethard by 2-12 to 3-4 in a game they had to win to maintain their slim hopes of qualifying. There was disappointment for the Under-12s when Adamstown failed to show up for their last championship game on Tuesday of last week, while the Under-12 girls went down to Fethard by 5-10 to 1-3 in their latest championship encounter. Well done to the Under-10s who beat Blackwater by 5-8 to 1-7 in Páirc Charman on Wednesday last. Many thanks to Top Part for their generous sponsorship which is much appreciated by all members. Why not check out www.sarsfields.leinstergaa.com for the latest club news? SHELMALIERS Shelmaliers are looking for volunteers for our annual fundraiser - bag packing in Dunnes Stores. We have been allocated the weekend of July 23-25 and need as many parents and supporters as possible. Please give your name to your child’s manager or any committee member. As we had another bad day, weather-wise, we are making a final push to finish the clean-up this Saturday, July 25, from 9.30 a.m. onwards. Thanks to everyone for all the help so far and hopefully one final day will finish the job. Tea and sandwiches will be served. Shelmaliers ran out easy winners in their opening game of the Under-21 hurling championship versus Duffry Rovers (see report elsewhere). The Junior ‘B’ hurlers had an astounding win over near neighbours Ballymurn on Tuesday night in Hollymount on a scoreline of 0-16 to 1-11. The Shelmaliers completely dominated the opening half, displaying great teamwork and determination. They took a six-point lead into the resumption facing a stiff breeze, but Ballymurn introduced some talented Minors into the fray and began to claw their way back to within two points. With five minutes to go, the only goal came when the ball rebounded off the helmet of a Ballymurn forward and deflected past the helpless Decky Murphy. The Shels dug deep and responded with an unanswered three points from Philip ‘Blindy’ Walsh to win by a margin of two points. Best for Shels were Decky Murphy, William Redmond, James and David Shiggins, Brian O’Shaughnessy and Graham Lawlor. Unfortunately, full-back Colm Hearne sustained a cracked rib and we wish him a speedy recovery. Our Minor footballers continued their unbeaten run in the championship with a hard-fought 2-9 to 2-4 win over the Starlights in Enniscorthy on Wednesday last. In terrible rain, our boys recovered from a very sluggish first-half to run out comfortable winners in an impressive second-half display. With the aid of a strong breeze, the home side led by three points at half-time. However, the Shels picked up the pace on the re-start and, with goals from James Gordon and Craig McCabe and points from Seán Walsh, Alan Rossiter and Brian Doyle, they held out for a good win. Best were Darragh Cloake, Shane Griffith, Kevin O’Leary and Niall Murphy. BLACKWATER The annual St. Brigid’s G.A.A. golf classic will take place on Friday, July 24, in St. Helen’s Bay Golf and Country Club. Tee reserved all day. Teams of four €200. Superb prizes with G.U.I. and non-G.U.I. This event has proved to be a tremendous fundraiser in recent years and an excellent day’s golfing is guaranteed. All support is welcome from locals and visitors alike. Please support this cause. For further information please contact Andy Roche, Senan Lillis, Owen Leacy, Denis Corrigan, Paddy Murphy or Aidan Whelan. ST. JOHN’S VOLUNTEERS Our hurlers had a mixed week, losing a league semi-final and recording their second championship victory. On Tuesday night a goal-hungry St. Martin’s B ended their interest in the league, but they recovered in fine style the following Sunday when they saw off Cloughbawn by 4-8 to 1-9. They joined our Under-14s who also recorded a great win in the championship over Duffry Rovers. Training for adult footballers is every Monday and Thursday at 7 p.m., while the hurlers train every Tuesday at 7 p.m. The golf classic takes place on July 31 at Wexford Golf Club. Teams of four can be entered for €200, while a tee or green can be sponsored for €80. The event is open to all levels, with two sections, G.U.I. and non-G.U.I., with prizes for both. Anyone interested can contact Tony (087-2775450), Rory (086-6023505) or Jim (087-7719864). Under-age training continues as follows - on Monday from 6-7 p.m. there is Under-14 boys’ football. On Tuesday from 6-7 p.m. there is Under-10 hurling. Wednesday evening sees Under-14 hurling and Under-12 football from 6-7 p.m. Under-10 football is every Thursday from 6-7 p.m. Friday hosts Under-8 hurling and Under-12 hurling from 6-7 p.m. Under-14 and Under-16 girls’ football train jointly twice a week - on Wednesday from 7-8 p.m. and every Saturday from 10.30 a.m. to 12 noon. The club warmly welcomes newcomers, and interested parents or players should feel free to come along or contact any committee member. Hoodies, shorts, socks and rain jackets are available - please feel free to contact Jim (087-7719864). For further information about this, the club and our under-age schedules, please visit www.volunteersgaa.com CLONARD Training times are as follows: Under-8s, Tuesday, 7-8 p.m.; Under-10s, Wednesday and Friday, 7-8 p.m.; Under-12s and Under-14s, Tuesday and Thursday, 7-8.30 p.m. and Sunday, 11 a.m. - 12.30 p.m. New members are always welcome - please come along any night of training. Our Under-16s played Barntown in the sixth round of the championship in Coolcotts on Monday evening last and ran out good winners. We had a full-strength team but we found it hard to get scores in the first-half. At the break we led by 0-12 to 1-1, and in the second we took control with goals from Dylan Carty and Philly Murphy and a point from centre-back Colm Browne to put a big gap between the teams (2-14 to 1-1). Team: G. Byrne; C. Byrne, R. Kumar, T. Hennessy; D. O’Connor, C. Browne (0-1), D. Lacey; R. Mulligan (0-1), J. O’Rourke (0-1); C. Anglim (0-2), P. Murphy (1-7), S. Tyler; C. Kavanagh, D. Carty (1-3), J. Reville (0-2). Subs. - D. Lawlor, I. McDonald, S. McDonald, E. Conor, D. Kehoe, J. Flood, J. Farahar, J. Ouigley. Congratulations to Colm Browne on winning a scholarship to the Gaeltacht. Our Junior hurlers recorded a great win in the District championship when they overcame the strong challenge of Faythe Harriers in Coolcotts on Tuesday of last week. The Harriers started off the brighter and took an early lead but, as the half wore on, Clonard started to get on top and, with some fine pointscoring from out the field, we went in at half-time winning by four points. We kept up the momentun in the second-half and, when Eoin Reardon goaled midway through, the lads were on their way to victory. With a great display of goalkeeping from Mark O’Connor and stern defening from the backs, we held firm and went on to win on a scoreline of 1-14 to 0-10. Best wishes for speedy recoveries to club members Darren Dempsey, Aidan Seaver and Shane Keogh who were all injured lately. The club hopes to see all three back in action soon. The footballers had a great work-out with a challenge match against Volunteers on Friday night last and, with our next championship match just around the corner, it was great to see such a large turn-out, especially from our Minor and Under-21 players. We are due to play Shelmaliers in our last group game where a win would see us qualify for the knockout stages. Clonard ladies have had a quiet few weeks with holidays etc., but now it’s time to get back into action with a lot of games coming up for all the teams. This means that 100% attendance is a must at training girls. The Under-12, Under-14 and Minor girls were present in Wexford Park on Wednesday last to support the Wexford Minor team who were playing Waterford in the All-Ireland semi-final. Clonard’s Aoife Tormey was playing half-forward and had a great game. She was well cheered on by her clubmates. Aoife has played a huge part in the team’s success, so well done. This Wednesday the Under-12 girls will play Taghmon in Clonard at 7.30 p.m. Girls, please be there at 6.45 p.m. Our Junior team will travel down to Bannow-Ballymitty on Thursday to play a championship game. Please meet at Clonard Church at 6.30 p.m. - cars needed. The Minor team will play the Martin’s in their first game on a date to be confirmed. We have more pink jerseys back in all sizes - if anyone wishes to buy one, contact Suzanne. Our new website is up and running - please log onto www.clonardladiesgfc.ie for any information about the club. Congratulations to Gillian McManus who got engaged recently. GLYNN-BARNTOWN Congratulations to our Under-10 camogie team which qualified for the county final over the weekend. Our girls faced Rathnure on their own ground and came away with a great win helped by goals from Tara Butler and Georgina Steele. At the back Emma Kiely was outstanding, while the midfield trio of Róisín, Clodagh and Andrea along with all the other girls were magnificent. This win made up for the recent disappointment of a loss in the Under-12 county semi-final where, due to holidays, our girls took to the field without at least five of the regulars. In Minor football our lads recorded a win away to Castletown, while the Under-12 football team found the Starlights too strong in the quarter-finals. We had six players on county duty last weekend - Michael, Craig, Mark and Gary with the Minors, while Pádraig Donnelly and Anthony Durack lined out for the Intermediates. Well done to all and the experience these players are gaining will help in our quest for championships. All tour money should be paid at this stage but, if there is any outstanding, please contact Jim McGovern immediately to make your final payment. Jim has lined up what looks like another spectacular tour and managed to keep costs way down. CROSSABEG-BALLYMURN There was no winner of last week’s lotto jackpot and one match three winner - Breda Murphy, Killmallock. The numbers drawn were 7, 13, 24 and 28. This week’s jackpot is €2,200. Congrats to Johnny Walsh who recently won the jackpot prize of €6,000 and the seller’s prize of €300. Hard luck to the Junior hurlers who were beaten by Buffers Alley in the league final last week. Despite not playing to their best standards, they were still in contention nearing the end, trailing by four points with five minutes left. However, the Alley finished the stronger and won by six points. Our lads had beaten Monageer in the semi-final. The Junior ‘B’ hurlers lost to the Shels last week while the Under-21 hurlers had a good win against Our Lady’s Island. The Junior ‘B’ footballers beat Clonard in the championship recently. The Under-18 footballers beat Blackwater, the Under-18 football match against Davidstown on Wednesday is off, and the Under-18 hurlers are away to Clongeen on Wednesday, July 29. The Under-16 footballers lost to Monageer. The Under-14 footballers lost to Kilanerin and the Under-14 hurlers are away to Shamrocks on Thursday. The Under-12 hurlers are away to Bannow on Tuesday, July 28. The Under-10 hurlers were busy lately, losing to St. Anne’s and St. Martin’s in the league, and they visited Clonard in the blitz on Saturday last. The Under-10 hurlers travel to Marshalstown for a blitz on Saturday. The Under-8 hurlers beat the Shels. The Under-8s and Under-10s train in the pitch on Tuesdays from 6.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., and all are welcome. The club shop is open at the rear of the dressing-rooms on Tuesdays from 6.15 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. ST. MARTIN’S Congratulations to all the girls and boys who took part in the annual Tony Boggan tournament, now in its tenth year. Many thanks to the Boggan family who presented the trophies and medals to all who took part on Sunday morning last. Many thanks also to all the selectors for both the girls and boys who organised the tournament, and to the parents for supporting Hard luck to the Junior ‘B’ camogie team which played in their very first-ever championship game in Monamolin against Buffers Alley second team and lost out narrowly. Congratulations to our Under-21 hurlers who had a very good win against Buffers Alley in Monamolin last week. Our Under-12 team played Graiguenamanagh and James Stephens from Kilkenny in Piercestown last week in two friendly matches which were of a very high standard. Thanks to both teams for travelling Brick In The Wall - anyone who has not yet got their brick, please contact Tomás Codd or Brian Cantwell as the closing date is nearing. The club shop will be open on Wednesday from 6.45 p.m. to 7.45 p.m. and Sunday from 10.45 a.m. to 12 noon. TAGHMON-CAMROSS This is a very important weekend for our footballers as both teams are in action. The Juniors are in action this Friday night in their next round of the championship against Sarsfields at 7 p.m. in Killurin. Then on Sunday our Seniors are taking on Gusserane at 7.30 p.m. in New Ross in their second round match of the championship. Your support would be much appreciated at these matches. Patrick Dobbs, personal health and fitness instructor, will run a Kids’ Boot Camp in Taghmon Community Centre from Monday, July 27, to Friday, July 31, from 10-2 for boys and girls from age 5-14. The cost is €50 per child, and anyone wishing to book their children into this should contact Patrick on 087-7585604. FAYTHE HARRIERS Our Junior ‘D’ team bowed out of the ACHL Division 4 race at the semi-final stage last week when we were easily beaten by Adamstown in Newbawn on a scoreline of 1-16 to 1-3. The game was played in very testing conditions. A goal by 16-year-old Dean Murphy midway through the first-half had us well in contention at that stage. At half-time we only trailed by four points. However, the game got away from us in the closing stages of the second-half and, in the end, we were well beaten by a superior team. This defeat concludes the involvement of all three of our teams in the All-County Leagues. Our Junior ‘D’ team played local rivals, Clonard, in the second round of the District championship on Tuesday last and were beaten on a scoreline of 1-14 to 0-10. Unfortunately we were short some of our regular players, but we were beaten by the far better team. We missed a number of scoreable frees while the Clonard netminder turned in an outstanding 60 minutes. We were due to play our third game in the championship last night (Tuesday) away to St. Martin’s, and a victory was vital to keep us in contention to qualify for the District semi-finals. There are no fixtures yet on either our Senior or Junior ‘A’ second round matches but, with Wexford’s inter-county games slowly coming to an end and with the local football championship resuming this weekend, it is likely that our games will recommence in the very near future. Training continues for all adult and Minor players every Monday and Wednesday in Páirc Charman at 7 p.m. The summer camp takes place from Monday, August 10, to Friday, August 14, in Páirc Charman. Once again, Eoin Ó Donnagáin and his intrepid band of helpers will be looking after all the children taking part. Boys and girls from first class primary up to second year secondary will be catered for. The cost of taking part will be €60 for the full week. Each participant will receive an O’Neill’s Faythe Harriers jersey. All enquiries regarding the camp should be directed to Eoin Ó Donnagáin at (086) 3873544. Our Minor team face a massive match on Wednesday next, July 29, when we entertain St. Anne’s in Páirc Charman at 7.30 p.m. We have two wins, a draw and a defeat from our four games to date, so a victory is vital in this game to ensure qualification for the Division 1 county semi-finals. Our Under-14s make the long trip to Ballygarrett tomorrow night (Thursday) to play the home team in the championship. A win here would almost certainly guarantee us a place in the county semi-final. Best wishes to Richie Kehoe, Stephen Nolan and Jim Berry, who are all involved with the Wexford Senior hurling team in their relegation battle with Clare next weekend. Best wishes also to Podge Farrell, who will be assisting Wexford Minors in their All-Ireland quarter-final against Tipperary, also next weekend. TARA ROCKS Well done to the Junior footballers and all concerned who beat St. Joseph’s in the league final in Patrick’s Park in extra-time in a game that was exciting throughout. Team: Tommy Donohoe; John Joe O’Reilly, Paddy Phelan (capt., 0-1), David Doyle; Darragh McKenna, Niall Breen, Martin Sheehan; Brendan Hobbs, Darren O’Toole (0-1); Gavin O’Toole (0-6, 4 frees), Mark Doyle, David Conway; Jason Redmond, Joe Bolger (0-4, 2 frees), James Mordaunt (0-4). Subs. - Declan Breen (0-1) for Redmond; in extra-time: Redmond for M. Doyle, inj., John Finn for Donohoe, also Stephen Kelly, Michael Quigley, Lee Brennan, Colm Morris, Colm Doyle, Tomás Owley. In the Pat Neville hurling blitz, our Under-10s travelled to St. Patrick’s (Camolin) to play the second round and all enjoyed the games. Lotto - no jackpot winner. Numbers drawn were 1, 14, 24 and 28. The jackpot now stands at €5,100. Lucky dip winners were Helen Higgins, Noel Murphy (Kilanerin) and Lorraine Marshall. Congratulations to Lee and Lisa Brennan on the birth of their baby daughter recently. BUFFERS ALLEY The Coiste na nÓg section will host a coffee morning in the clubhouse on Saturday next at 10.30 a.m. This is one of their fundraising projects to generate funds for the under-age boys in the club. A special welcome to everyone in the area to come along and join the Buffers Alley members for a social occasion. Baking and confectionery would be very much appreciated. Well done to the Intermediate and Junior ‘B’ camogie teams who both had wins in the championship during the past week. The Intermediate team had a win over Blackwater while the Junior ‘B’ team had a victory over St. Martin’s. The Under-12 team is awaiting confirmation of their county final versus Ferns St. Aidan’s which is expected to take place around August 8. Last week was a bumper one for the adult teams in the club. The Seniors got the week off to a flying start with a hard-earned victory over Ferns St. Aidan’s in a tight but entertaining Premier final. On Thursday night the second team travelled to Oylegate and competed in the Division 1 final. The game lacked competitiveness and the Alley were in control for the hour, with their opponents, Crossabeg-Ballymurn, failing to register enough scores from play. The Junior ‘B’ team had their second win in the Gorey District championship when they defeated Ferns on Friday last. It is a great achievement for the club to reach three finals, with upwards of 60 members getting the opportunity to compete in competitive games which should be very beneficial preparation for the forthcoming second round of the championship. The Under-14 boys had a win over Clonard in the football championship last week. This week the Juvenile hurlers are away to Shelmaliers and the Under-12 boys travel to Taghmon. Tomorrow night (Thursday), the Under-14 hurlers travel to Coolgreany. The July club development draw will be held in the clubhouse on Tuesday next, July 28, commencing at 9.30 p.m. All members are welcome to attend. A bumper crowd attended the annual G.A.A. summer camps held in Buffers Alley last week, with many visitors to the area availing of the opportunity to join the local boys for a very informative and enjoyable week of skills and fun. RAPPAREES-STARLIGHTS It was full steam ahead at under-age this week at Bellefield, with our Under-10s beating Marshalstown in the Kent Stainless Steel football by 7-5 to 3-4. The Under-12s played a great quarter-final against Glynn on Saturday morning last, beating them by 1-11 to 1-8 and gaining a spot in the football semi-final against St. Martin’s. Our Under-14 footballers beat the Shelmaliers 5-7 to 1-2, putting them in the closing stages of the championship. However, our Under-14 hurlers were beaten by Naomh Éanna of Gorey on Sunday morning last, going down by 3-11 to 2-7. It was the only loss to date for this remarkable team, but their championship hopes are still very much alive and, given that they were missing both Liam Ryan and ace shooter Kevin Foley, they would still be very strong contenders for the title. Our Minor footballers lost to the Shelmaliers by 2-9 to 2-5 in a very good encounter, with some very fine football played by both sides. Our ladies Junior footballers had a wonderful win at Bellefield on Thursday evening last, beating near neighbours the Shamrocks convincingly by 4-11 to 0-5. Well done ladies! Unfortunately, when we move to the adult section of the club the news is not quite as inspiring, with our Under-21 hurlers losing the first round of the championship to Sliabh Buí Gaels in Ballyrobuck on Monday evening last in dismal fashion (2-19 to 0-10), and our Junior Bs going down to a much fitter and sharper Bunclody side on Saturday evening in Bunclody by 5-11 to 3-7. When I say that one of our goals came from the evergreen Pádraig Doyle who celebrated his 50th birthday earlier this summer and who looked fit and agile, it would certainly raise questions about our much younger players who looked sluggish at times. There is, however, training for Junior Bs this Wednesday evening at Bellefield and the session will be taken by Brian Ivers and Tomás McVeigh - so perhaps there is hope for us in this championship yet. With our county footballers exiting from the inter-county scene last weekend, our Senior footballers will be out in the next round of the championship this weekend - watch the papers for dates and venues. Congratulations to Margaret Walker who celebrated a birthday at Bellefield on Friday night last among a large gathering of her family, friends and neighbours, and to Katie Donohoe who looked splendid in pink as she celebrated her 18th birthday at the clubhouse on Saturday night last. Look our for our next car boot sale on this Saturday and our next under-age disco on Thursday, July 30 - this one is a beach party disco and once again with music by the very popular Alan Ennis of South East Radio. On Sunday, August 2, our camogie section are having their annual fundraiser disco bar with Liam Sharkey, and on Sunday, August 9, we are hosting, in conjunction with the Athenaeum Restoration committee, a post Patron get-together at the clubhouse where families and friends can meet and wander down memory lane over a cuppa with lots of old Athenaeum and G.A.A. photos on display - come along and see if you can find yourself or some family member among them. Don’t forget, every Tuesday night for the months of July and August, Celtic Roots perform their excellent show at Bellefield - make a point of coming along and enjoying this wonderful night of entertainment. HWH-BUNCLODY Our Junior hurlers won the league final in a hard-fought game by a point in Monageer versus Oulart-The Ballagh on Thursday night. Captain Paul Jackman was presented with the cup by county Chairman Ger Doyle who thanked both teams for playing the game in an excellent sporting manner in difficult conditions. Full report in sports pages. They also beat the Rapparees in the second round of the championship on Saturday night last in Bunclody on a 4-21 to 3-7 scoreline. This leaves them with one defeat and one victory in the championship, and they face Oylegate next in a game which will decide their fate. Our Minor footballers played a draw away to St. Anne’s on Wednesday night last. The game finished 0-9 apiece and the team was: Craig Moulds; Seán Kenny, Páuric Murphy, James Taylor; Stephen Finn, Paul Atkinson, Ronan Byrne; Eoin Carton, Robert Doran; James Doyle, Johie John Connors, Adrian Hendrick; Mylie Berry, Michael ‘Baldy’ Connors, Aidan Nolan. Subs. - Brendan Dunne and Jason Cowman. Our Under-16 footballers recorded a 3-14 to 4-7 victory over St. James’ in the championship on Monday last. Team: Seán Hogan; Eoin Murphy, Jason Cowman, Jamie Murphy; Ciarán Skelton, Stephen Fortune, James Ellard; Seán Kenny (0-1), Jamie John Murphy (0-8); Matty Doran, Aidan Nolan (3-3), Seán Taylor (0-1); Conor Creane, Shane Doyle (0-1), Podge Kehoe. Subs. - Daniel Moore, Shane Healy, Cormac Kelly. The Under-14 hurlers played Liam Mellows on Thursday night last in Bunclody. Short five players due to holidays, they struggled from the start. Liam Mellows led by 2-5 to 0-1 at half-time and went on to win by 4-10 to 0-3. The mentors would like to thank Michael O’Connor and Anthony Roche for stepping up from Under-12s to help field a team. Squad: Jamie Wilson, Michael O’Connor, Andrew Kelly, Eamonn Kearney, Jamie Cowman, Conor Creane, Thomas O’Connor, Seán Nolan, Matthew Doran, Jamie Farrell, Dean Slye (0-1), John O’Connor (0-1), Thomas Power (0-1), Simon Black, Mark O’Connor, Anthony Roche. Our Under-14 footballers played at home to Gusserane in the championship on Friday night. Gusserane got off to a flying start and led by 2-2 to no score before a great individual goal by Matthew Doran got Bunclody going. By half-time Bunclody led by a point. An all-round hard-working display in the second-half brought home the points for Bunclody on a scoreline of 3-5 to 2-6. A great full-back line display by Mark O’Connor, Andrew Kelly and Eamonn Kearney was a joy to watch, but man of the match has to go to Matthew Doran who ran himself into the ground for the team and finished with 2-3. Squad: Jamie Farrell, Mark O’Connor, Andrew Kelly, Eamonn Kearney, Jamie Cowman, Conor Creane, Roy Hudson, Matthew Doran (2-3), Seán Nolan, Dean Slye (1-0), Eoin Dunne (0-1), Jamie Wilson, Thomas O’Connor (0-1), Simon Black, Thomas Power, Anthony Roche, Michael O’Connor. Our Under-10 footballers had a great win over Cloughbawn away on Wednesday night last in the Kent Steel tournament on a scoreline of 4-9 to 1-3, with five of the team getting on the scoresheet. Squad: Peadar Cowman, Adam Hogan, Michael Roche, Jamie Kavanagh, Stephen Kavanagh, Byron Doyle (1-0), Darren Doyle (1-3), Taigh Kelly (1-0), Eddie Black (0-5), John McCormack (1-1), Tomás Tobin, Ned Connors, Jerry Connors, Robert Weston, Andy Cash, Edward Dunbar-Wilson. The next match is versus Marshallstown on Wednesday in Bunclody at 7 p.m. They play in the Pat Neville ground hurling at home on Saturday at 11 a.m. Thanks to everyone who made the G.A.A. summer camp a success, especially the soccer club for the use of their indoor facilities on wet days. There was no winner of the the G.A.A. lotto for a jackpot of €19,500. The numbers drawn were 1, 8, 19, 26. There were five match three winners - Andy and Aoife Mahon, Louise and Tommmy Farrell, Emma Ryan, Lily Byrne and Denise Culhane, Co. Kerry. The next draw for a jackpot of €19,800 is in Redmond’s, Main Street, on Monday, July 27. The club would like to offer its congratulations and best wishes to John and Emma Murphy on their recent marriage. SHAMROCKS St. Senan’s Sports Lotto results for Monday, July 13: winning numbers 7, 11, 14 and 23. No winner. The Minor footballers got back to winning ways on Wednesday last in Oylegate. Mike Nolan opened the scoring with a fine point. Oylegate responded with a point from a ’45. Both teams found it difficult to score in difficult conditions. A penalty scored by Jamie Dagg followed by a point from a ’45 gave the Shamrocks a narrow lead of 1-2 to 0-4 at half-time. The Shamrocks were the stronger team in the second-half. The half-back line of Stephen Casey, Seán Wildes and Shane Larkin was outstanding, while John Kavanagh won everything at full-back. Jamie Steadman and Barry Dobbs added a point each before a speculative shot from out the field by John Kavanagh found the net. A goal from Luke Connors and a point from Baby John sealed the victory. Final score: Shamrocks 3-5, Oylegate 0-6. There is no match this week due to the county Minors’ quarter-final fixture. The Intermediate team was unable to win our second trophy of the year on Thursday last, going down by four points to Oylegate in the Premier ‘B’ ACHL final. It was heartbreak for the Shamrocks as it was a game that could have been won. Hopefully lessons will have been learnt before the next round of the Intermediate championship. Good luck to the Junior footballers who play Starlights next weekend in round three of the championship. A win would put them in the shake-up for quarter-finals. The fixture was not confirmed at the time of writing. Our Under-14 hurlers play Crossabeg-Ballymurn on Thursday in Fr. Murphy Park at 7.30 p.m. Our Under-12 hurlers play Ferns on Tuesday in Fr. Murphy Park at 7.30 p.m. RÉALT NA MARA The Under-12 footballers had a great win versus the Shamrocks on Tuesday last on a score line of 3-6 to 0-2. The lads fought hard for the victory which was well deserved. On Saturday week last the Under-12 panel played the Volunteers in Wexford in a practice match and afterwards went on to Wexford Park to see the Wexford Senior footballers and hurlers in action in the All-Ireland qualifiers. All had a great day out and a sincere thanks to Peter and the lads in the Volunteers for their hospitality. The V.H.I. hurling Cúl camp will be held in Ballygarrett from Monday, August 10, to August 14. Ballygarrett-Réalt na Mara G.A.A. club are hosting the Macamore Rose in the clubhouse on July 25 at 7.30 p.m. sharp. Tickets are on sale costing €10. Sponsorship cards are in circulation, so please support . Music by D.J. John Burke after the contest. Who will be crowned ‘The Macamore Rose’? All contestants need your vote, and great craic is guaranteed. The Under-10 boys had a busy day on July 18 when we hosted the blitz with St. Pat’s, Buffers Alley and Ferns. The Under-10s are also busy with the Pat Neville and Kent Steel games for July and August. The Under-12 girls played Blackwater on Saturday night and had a great win by 3-8 to 0-1. The next Under-14 boys’ hurling match is against Faythe Harriers on July 23, while the next Under-14 boys’ football match is against Ballyhogue on August 6. Well done to all who completed the referees’ course held over the last couple of months. The Under-12s played Tara Rocks on Tuesday and will play Naomh Éanna on Tuesday next. An Under-10 hurling blitz is on Saturday next in Ballygarrett, with a football match against Ferns in Ballygarrett on Monday at 7 p.m. MONAGEER-BOOLAVOGUE The V.H.I. G.A.A. Cúl Camp will take place in Monageer on August 4-7. All interested are requested to get an application form from coaches or the Coiste na nÓg Secretary and forward to the Wexford County Board with appropriate money. Please do so as soon as possible. There was no winner of last week’s lottto draw for a jackpot of €3,600. The lucky match three winner for €160 was Breda Rigley. The winning numbers were 7, 15, 22 and 24. Both the Under-8 and 10s saw action on Saturday morning last, with the Under-8s away to Bunclody where they will return next Saturday for a blitz. The Under-10s travelled to Ballygarrett and performed excellently, winning two games and narrowly losing one by a point. This was their best performance to date and great performances came from John McWee, Arron Blackburn in goal and four-time goalscorer Mark Kearns. This week the Under-10s are in Marshalstown on Saturday for the blitz, with no midweek game. The Under-16s played Crossabeg-Ballymurn in the football championship on Monday week last and, though the game was close midway through the second-half, our boys pulled away for a 3-11 to 2-7 win. Best were Seán McCabe, Seán Murphy, Thomas O’Leary and James Gahan. The Minors went down by a goal to St. Mary’s (Rosslare) on a final score of 3-9 to 2-9. Performing well were Matthew Dunne who went on a scoring spree from full-forward and Mick Sweeney. The Minors will play away to Clonard tonight. The Under-21s also had a one-goal defeat to Oylegate on Monday last, going down by 1-12 to 0-12. The Intermediates continued their preparations for the championship with a good win over Rathnure during the week. Hard luck to the Wexford Intermediates and our sole representative, John Breen, who went down by a point to the Cats in the provincial final last weekend. KILRUSH-ASKAMORE The Under-10s are at home against Craanford on Wednesay, while the Under-12s play in Bree against Ballyhogue on Tuesday, July 28. The Under-14s play in Coolree against Duffry Rovers on July 23. Your support is always welcome. Training times stay the same. If there are any changes, a text will be sent to parents. Good luck to all the teams. ST. PATRICK’S The Intermediate footballers are provisionally fixed to play Bunclody this weekend in the championship. See elsewhere in the paper for the fixtures. The Junior footballers have a game at home on Friday against Kilanerin. The Junior hurlers drew with Clonee on Thursday night last (2-10 each). All the league tables, results and upcoming fixtures are now available on the Wexford G.A.A. website - www.wexfordgaa.ie. It is up to date and contains both adult and under-age details, well worth a look. The Under-14 hurlers are due to play Geraldine O’Hanrahans away on Thursday next. The Under-12 hurlers’ next game is on Tuesday, June 28, at home to Monageer. The Under-10 hurlers are playing a blitz each Saturday morning for July. Under-6 and Under-8 training now takes place on Saturdays from 4-5.30 p.m. and on Wednesdays from 7-8.15 p.m. NAOMH ÉANNA The Under-14 hurlers beat the Rapps on Sunday in the championship to qualify for the semi-final. The Under-16 footballers beat Sarsfields on Monday in the championship. Our Under-21 hurlers were beaten by Liam Mellows on Monday night last in Camolin in the District final. The Intermediate footballers are out next weekend - check local press for details. There was no jackpot winner in the club’s weekly lotto draw. The numbers were 5, 8, 27 and 28. Next week’s jackpot stands at €4,000. There were two match threes won by Lisa O’Connor and Simon O’Brien, and the sellers’ prize was won by James Tompkins. The club held its field day on Sunday and it was a huge success. The club would like to thank everyone who participated, gave donations and helped out, it was much appreciated. There were some competitions on the day too. Winner of the boys’ under-age long puck was Michael Murphy, while the girls was won by Amy Redmond. The winner of the adult long puck was William Cullen. The hurling shooting competition was won by Dara Hughes. The winner of the football through the tyre was David O’Brien. There was also a clothes line challenge won by Olive Lynch. 
