sport football
{  
    January 27 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27361431.html }
FIELD LOTTO; Winning numbers in last Mondays field lotto were 1, 16, 17, 19. No winner. Lucky dips, ?40 Eileen Leahy c/o Horseshoe Bar, Jim Buckley, Behins. ?30 Shane Leahy, Lissycurrig, Causeway, Michael Casey, 13 Main St. ?20 Nora Coffey, c/o  Lynchs, Gerry ODriscoll, 57 Ballygologue Park. ?10 John Galvin, Bedford, Beatrice Kelly, Listowel.This weeks jackpot is ?2,200 FIELD LOTTO; Winning numbers in last Mondays field lotto were 1, 16, 17, 19. No winner. Lucky dips, ?40 Eileen Leahy c/o Horseshoe Bar, Jim Buckley, Behins. ?30 Shane Leahy, Lissycurrig, Causeway, Michael Casey, 13 Main St. ?20 Nora Coffey, c/o Lynchs, Gerry O’Driscoll, 57 Ballygologue Park. ?10 John Galvin, Bedford, Beatrice Kelly, Listowel. This weeks jackpot is ?2,200, and the draw will be held in Christys. ST PIO PRAYER GROUP: Please note that the monthly St Pio prayer group will be held on this Thursday, January 27 in St Marys Church, at 7.15pm. Everybody welcome. TABLE QUIZ: A big thank you to everybody who supported the table quiz in aid of the Asian Tsunami fund on Friday, January 14 in the Kingdom Bar. The event raised ?3,050. TOWN DEVELOPMENT PLAN: Is now available at the Council Offices. Cost ?25. N KERRY ANGLERS: The AGM of the N Kerry anglers will be held on Friday, February 4, in Kevin Brodericks at 8pm. EMMETS DRAW: Emmets super draw for the re development of Frank Sheehy Park, commences in March. Tickets cost ?100, and there are four monthly draws with 4 Peugeot 206 cars, holiday vouchers and cash prizes on offer. Now that the c’ship fever has been put on ice, sellers will be making an all out effort in securing patrons. Members of the club will be calling to all areas in the coming weeks. You can join by payment of ?100, or direct debit of 4 x ?25. REFUSE COLLECTION: Listowel Town Council is introducing a recycling and residual refuse collection service on February 1 and there will be changes to the collection routes. Please check the advert in last weeks Kerryman for your collection day. BAZAAR: The AGM will be held on this Friday, January 28, in the new presbytery at 8.30pm. Everybody welcome. DEATHS: Sincere sympathy is extended to the family of Michelle Foley, who died so tragically recently. Also to the family of Frances Mulvihill, Clountubrid, who died last week. Our annual local art and model-making competition will take place in St.Michaels College on Friday January 28th at 6.30 pm. Age group U.8-U.16.- Boys and Girls. Entry Fee ?2.00 Training for Chess and Draughts will commence on Thursday 20th January 2005 at 6.30pm-7.30pm in St Michaels College. Age Groups: Draughts U.10,12,14. Chess: U12 & 16. Upcoming events: Anybody interested in taking part in any of the following events please telephone (068)-22725 immediately: Olympic Handball U13 & 10 Singing, U14 Quiz - U14 Recitation , U14 Projects,U11, 13& 15 Swimming U.8-16 Choir U16 Pitch & Putt - U16 Table Tennis U13. AWARDS NIGHT The 2004 Community Games Annual Awards Night took place at the Riverisland Hotel, Castleisland. Listowel area recieved the 'Kerryman' sponsored Perpetual Shield for the best overall enteries in the V.R.O award. Accepting the award ,area secretary, Eileen McCarthy thanked the 'Kerryman' and in particular she thanked all those who took part in the many activities over the year and without their endearvours the award would not be possible. ADULT QUIZ The first activity of the 2005 calender took place at the 'Mermaids', Listowel on sunday last when the county final of the quiz was held. The defending champions Abbeydorney again fielded a strong team with Listowel represented by Tony Carey, Barbara Mulvihill, Kevin Barry & Shane Thornton, The Listowel quartet while slow to get off the blocks put in a storming finish and can be proud of their high placing. However, their was no catching Abbeydorney who ran out very strong winners. COURSING LOTTO: January 16, Jackpot ?3,400. Numbers drawn, 15, 16, 20, 22. No jackpot winner. ?25 winners, Thomas O’Connell, Irremore, Listowel, J J McCarthy, Ballyhorgan, Lixnaw, Mike Kelliher, Banemore, Listowel, Mitchel McAuliffe, 12 Clogher, Lixnaw. Five free ticket winners, Caroline Foley, Cahernade, Abbeydorney, Sharon McNama, Ballinageragh, Lixnaw. Results of draw at J J Walshes, January 23. Jackpot ?3,500, numbers drawn, 2, 6, 17, 28. No jackpot winner. ?25 winners, Rod Shearer c/o Pat McMahon, Lixnaw, John Shanahan, Irrebeg, Lixnaw, Benny McNamara, Six Crosses, Listowel, Hannah Nolan, Dysert, Lixnaw. Five free ticket winners, Kitty Lynch, Ballyhorgan, Lixnaw, Mike Kennelly, Dysert, Lixnaw. Next draw, Dew Drop Inn, Sunday, January 30. Jackpot ?3,600. COMHALTAS: Meeting will be held on Wednesday night February 2nd in Ceolann at 8.30p.m. in preparation for upcoming Feile Feabhra. Comhaltas membership now due and all remaining unpaid members must have paid by the closing date 11th February,as they must have up to date membership cards to enter any competitions.Music classes continue on Monday nights at the usual times.Singing,keyboard, and guitar classes also being taught at 7.15pm. HURLING CLUB: Annual Social: The Lixnaw Hurling Club/ Finuge football club held their social last Saturday night in the Golf Hotel Ballybunion. Around 230 people attended the function where all seemed to have a good night. Finuge chairman Aidan Galvin and Lixnaw chairman Willie Dowling were the MCs and they kept the show running smoothly. Invited guests included Jerome Conway, former vice-chairman of the Kerry county board, Teddy O’Sullivan, Munster Council delegate, Mike Slattery, Chairman NK Hurling board. Teddy O’Sullivan presented the Finuge footballers with their county and Munster junior football championship medals. Jerome Conway presented the Lixnaw hurlers with the county minor and U21 hurling championship medals. Congratulations to all who received medals. Presentations were also made to U21 selectors, James McCarthy, Martin Galvin and Johnny Conway, minor selectors Fergus Fitzmaurice and Thomas Fitzmaurice. The Lixnaw club then made a presentation to Jerome Conway on his retirement from vice-chairman of the Kerry county board. Following this, joint presentations were made to Eamon Fitzmaurice and Paul Galvin on their success with the Kerry senior footballers during their All-Ireland campaign. His sister Tina accepted Paul Galvins award as Paul is away in Hong Kong with the All-Stars. Congratulations also to Johnny Conway who was a popular and well deserved choice for the 2004 Club Man of the Year award. Johnny received his award mainly for his huge contribution to the juvenile hurling coaching plus the success he enjoyed with the U12s and U14s, his involvement with the U21s in their quest for three in a row, senior selector as well as the huge amount of time he put in to the building of the stand. Throw in fixing hurleys etc and you get the drift. Another popular choice was the Hall of Fame winner, Mike Allen. Mike played with Lixnaw and Ballinclogher during the sixties era and played in England for a number of years in between. His brother Tom accepted his award. Thanks to the staff of the Golf Hotel for the lovely meal, which they served up. Live music was supplied by Celebration, backboned by Laura McCarthy, formerly PO Lixnaw and they are highly recommended. Finally, thanks to Johnny Buckley who was the disco operator and he played till late. Scor na nOg: This Sunday the Munster finals of Scor na nOg will take place in the Gleneagle Hotel, Killarney @ 2pm. Representing the Lixnaw hurling club are the Novelty Act group of Aishling Silles, Tommy Fitzgerald, Eoin Galvin and Roisin Fitzmaurice. It’s a huge occasion for them; the news from the camp is they are well up for it. All in Lixnaw wish them well. Tickets must be ordered from Eleanor McElligott @ 066-7132269 as soon as possible. Bally Rovers FC Lotto Results 18/01/05 - Bally Rovers held their weekly draw on Tuesday night the 18th January at Barr na Sraide in Ballyhahill: There was no jackpot winner. The numbers drawn were 9, 22, 23, 28: The lucky dip winners were as follows: ?75.00: Christina and Katie, Askeaton: ?30.00: Robert and Dylan Scanlon, Finnoe, Ballyhahill: ?30.00: Colm Sheehan, Blarney, Co. Cork: ?15.00: G Dunworth, Askeaton: ?15.00: Liam Reidy, Ballyhahill: 10 Free Tickets: Kathleen and Kevin O‚Brien: Promoters Prize: Declan Looney, Ballyhahill: The new jackpot was ?8,150.00 and the draw was held on Tuesday night last the 25th January at The Knockdown Arms: Gerald Griffin’s Ladies Football Club AGM: Gerald Griffins ladies football club will hold their AGM in the Parish Hall Ballyhahill this Saturday night 29th January at 8.00 p.m. Everyone welcome. St Gabriel’s School: St Gabriels school in Limerick would like to thank Ballyhahill Wrenboys for their recent donation. Epilepsy Annual Collection: The annual collection for Epilepsy will take place before Mass in Loughill Church this Saturday night 29th January and in Ballyhahill Church this Sunday morning 30th January. Sports Grants: Over ?13,000.00 in sports grants was allocated to 23 older people‚ groups recently to encourage more people in that age group to get active. The scheme reaches out to towns and villages all over Ireland and is making a real and positive impact on the lives of thousands of older people by helping them to become more active. At the end of 2004 almost 600 groups nation wide were allocated in excess of ?300,000.00 under phase four of “Go for life national grant scheme for sport and physical activity for older people. Details of the allocation under the scheme were announced by the Minister for Sport Mr John O’Donoghue on December the 9th and monies were distributed to groups before Christmas. The scheme aims to help local clubs and organisations to increase opportunities for their older members to actively participate in recreational sport and a range of physical activities. In his speech Mr. O’Donoghue said “With older people making up an ever-increasing proportion of the population it is very appropriate that there should be a programme of activities specifically targeting this group. Recent research published by the ESRI and the Irish Sports Council found that people who do participate in sport or exercise of any kind usually give it up when they reach a certain age. These findings highlight the importance of the Government‚s investment in sports participation for older people and confirm the valuable contribution sport makes to health and well being. Speaking at the announcement John Treacy Chief Executive of the Irish Sports Council said “One of our key objectives at the Irish Sports Council is to increase participation in sport. We want more people to participate in sport and exercise for longer and we want then to enjoy it. Age is no barrier when it comes to taking part in sport. Among the successful applicants who received funding were active retirement associations, senior citizens clubs, ICA guilds, sports clubs, local sports partnerships, day centres and community centres. The grant aid is being used to buy sports equipment and to fund sport and activity programmes. Players Meeting: There will be a player‚s meeting for U/21‚s, Junior and Intermediates in the clubhouse this Friday night January 28th at 8.30 p.m. Full attendance is required. Lotto Results: There was no winner of the jackpot at the draw which took place at Barrett‚s Bar in Glin on Sunday night last the 23rd January. The numbers drawn were 5,10,27,29: The lucky dip winners were as follows. ?80.00: Eamon Kelly, Moohernagh, Ballyhahill: ?35.00: Peg Looney, Ballyhahill: ?35.00: Tommy Barrett, Glin: ?20.00: Louise and Brian Herbert, Finnoe, Ballyhahill: Promoters Prize: Barr na Sraide, Ballyhahill: The jackpot next week will be ?3,690.00 and the draw will be held at Barr na Sraide in Ballyhahill, on Sunday night next the 30th January. Development Draw: The first Development draw for 2005 takes place the first week in February. Promoters are asked to contact Tommy O’Grady and hand in the money as soon as possible. New members are welcome to join for the coming year. The first prize every month is a car and there are about 35 prizes to be won every month. Anyone wishing to join for the coming year are asked to contact their promoter or any officer of the club. Membership: Membership of Gerald Griffin‚s GAA club for the coming year is now due. Membership for adults is ?15.00 and membership for under age players is ?5.00. This money can be paid to any officer of the club. LOTTO: There was no winner of last week’s lotto jackpot of ?5,650 , the numbers drawn were 10,14,21,24. The ?35 was won by Eoin Foran, Bedford, Listowel and the ?20 by Norma Curtin, Knockaclare. The four sets of free tickets for next weeks jackpot of ?5,800 were won by Jim O’Regan, Cork, Ned Gould, Kilmorna, John Joe Kelleher, Banemore, and Nora O’Connell, Lyre. The whiskey was won by Martin Sheehan, Castleisland and the voucher Johnny Nolan, Lyre. SOCIAL: The Kerry GAA Supporters Club social takes place on Saturday 29th January in Ballygarry House Hotel. Special Guest Dara O’Cinnede Captain and Team Manager Jack O’Connor. Music by Neilly O’Connor. Tickets ?30 and are available from Martin Leane PRO (068) 48116. TABLE QUIZ: Kerry Macra na Feirme are organising a table quiz in aid of the Tsunami Disaster in Stokers Lodge, Tralee on Wednesday, January 26, at 8.30pm. Every club member is asked to make a special effort to attend. Tables of four ?20. 1, ?200; 2, ?100; lots of spot prizes on the night. SOCCER: Causeway Club are holding an indoor soccer tournament on February 20, in Causeway Sports Hall. All clubs are invited to attend. So contact JP O’Carroll for info. PUB NITES: There will be a pub nite in Parkers Bar, Kilflynn on Wednesday, February 2, at 9pm. Rings, darts and pool will be played, so come along for a fun night. Contact Thomas O’Carroll for info. TRACTOR BALANCING: Well done to all who took part in the tractor balancing competition on Sunday last at the Abbeydorney Ploughing Match. 1, Eamonn O’Brien, Listellig; 2, Declan Gilbert, Lixnaw; 3, Kevin O’Connell. Thanks to Michael O’Flaherty, Lixnaw for the tractor balancer and to Abbeydorney Ploughing Match committee for all their help. Well done to JP O’Carroll who organise the competition. CARD results for Thursday, January 13. Winners: Brian Flannery, Den Lane and JJ Lenihan; runners-up prize shared between Josie Sheehan, Joan Sheehan and Liam O’Connor, LInda Quirke, Jimmie O’Connell and Dixie Quirke, Mrs O’Grady, Bridgie O’Connor and Michael O’Grady, Nora O’Mahony, Dan Reidy and Ned Sheehan. Table prize: John O’Connell, Paddy Sheehan and Florence O’Connell. Door prizes: Mrs O’Grady and John O’Connell. Raffle: Nora Lyons, Liam Lane, Noel Murphy, Eamon Sheehan. Card results for Thursday night. Winners: Denis Ahern, Jackie Long and Mikey Ahern; runners-up were Joan O’Grady, Maureen Fitzgerald and Kathleen McCarthy. Table prize: Mrs O’Grady, Jack O’Connor and Michael O’Grady. Door prize: Josie Sheehan and Eamon Sheehan. Raffle: Ann Cahill, Seamus Lenihan, Liam Lane, JJ Lenihan and Seamus Lane. Cards as usual on this Thursday night at 9pm. PLAYERS MEETING: All players who intend to play under 21 football with Mountcollins in 2005 are asked to meet with the new team management on this Friday night, January 28. The time is 9pm and venue is the club dressing rooms. DEVELOPMENT DRAW: The County Development draw for 2005 gets underway in two weeks time. The local GAA club are again promoting the draw and we encourage all parishioners to join. Commission from the draw helps the club to survive during the year. The subscription is ?8 per month on a once off payment of ?96. Please contact any club member for details. MOUNTCOLLINS AFC: After a lengthy lay off from competitive action the local soccer team were back in action on Sunday week with a home fixture against Glantine. Two first half goals from Donagh Walsh and a second half strike from John Paul O’Connell saw the local side secure a 3-1 victory. The bad weather last week saw all Desmond league fixtures cancelled on Sunday. RACE NIGHT: The soccer club are holding a video race night in Quirke’s Bar, Mountcollins on Friday, February 18. The race booklet is now being prepared and full page adverts are available at ?50 or a half page for ?30. Horses and jockeys are also on sale at ?10 each and generous prizemoney will be on offer. Your support would be much appreciated. TROCAIRE COLLECTION: A total of ?8,600 has been forwarded to the Trocaire organisation to help the South East Asia Appeal. This was the contribution from both churches in the parish to the recent church door collection. FISHING CLUB: The fundraising night for the local fishing club which was held recently in Quirke’s Bar, Mountcollins was well supported and a financial success. The club wish to thank all who supported the draw, donated raffle prizes and attended on the night. Thanks also to Brendan and Donna for their hospitality. CLUB NA nÓG: Officers elected at the annual general meeting were Chairman, Seamus Lenihan; Vice Chairman, John O’Connell; Secretary, Ann Cahill; Assist Secretary, Mary Ann Collins; Treasurer, Danny O’Connell; Assist Treasurer, Geraldine Lenihan; PRO, John Lyons; Club Registrar, Kathy Lenihan; Board Delegates — Margaret O’Connell, Ann Cahill, Seamus Lenihan and John O’Connell. Teams for the new season are under 8, 10, 12, 14 and 16 football. Extra help required for all teams. Parents are reminded that all players need to pay the club registration fee before they are allowed to play. RECENT DEATH: The parish lost one of its best known residents at the weekend with the death of Jackie O’Connell, The Village. Better known as Jackie Bill Phil, he was a gifted craftsman and carried on the family tradition as the local blacksmith for many years. A keen sportsman he had many interests including GAA, coursing and fishing. Large crowds were present at his removal to the local church and his Requiem Mass and burial on Sunday. Sympathy is extended to his family, relations and many friends. May he rest in peace. GAA: Agm - The AGM of the Moyvane GAA Club will take place on Saturday next, January 29, in the Marian Hall at 8.15pm. All members are asked to attend. We look forward to a good meeting as we still have a lot of development to complete. Seniors - Moyvane are due to start their North Kerry league campaign against Ballyduff in Moyvane on Sunday at 2pm. Players are asked to check fixture on local posters. COMMUNITY CENTRE: To all patrons of the Moyvane Community Centre .Unfortunately we are no longer in a position to allow groups to participate in sporting activities carried in the hall on a casual basis. All activities carried on in the centre must now be covered by specific insurance polices. Patrons must be members of a club or society, which holds a current Public Liability Insurance Policy. A copy of this current insurance policy must be presented to the committee prior to making bookings from February 1st onwards. We regret any inconvenience caused by these regulations but we are forced to implement the instructions of our insurers. Any queries can be directed to members of the hall committee. CHIROPODIST: Will attend the Marian Hall on Saturday, January 29, at 1pm. Contact Eileen Quinn 068 / 49472 for appointment. STORY TELLING: A night of story telling and yarns will be held in St. John's Heritage Centre, Listowel on Friday, February 4th at 8.30pm. In aid of the Tsunami Disaster fund. Tickets ?10. All proceeds to the Irish Red Cross. Bookings telephone (068) 22566. ENROLMENT: St. Michael's College will hold their Enrolment and Open Night for the Academic year 2005/ 2006 on Thursday 27th 2005 from 7.30pm to 9.30pm. Limited number of places available. WEDDING: The marriage took place on Friday last of Emer Horan, Aughrim and Alan Kidney Limerick at the Church of the Assumption, Moyvane. The Reception was held in Limerick WALK: Health and Fun Walk on Sunday next 30th Jan. Starting at Newtownsandes Co-Op at 2pm. Over Glin Road and back Lower Aughrim. 6 miles approx. All are welcome. BADMINTON: Congratulations to Ml. J. O'Connor on winning the Div. 1 & 2 handicap tournament in Tralee last week, & also to Eileen Roche who was finalist in the Div. 5 competition. HEADSHAVE: A large crowd turned out for the charity headshave night held in Hanrahan's All Star Bar Moyvane on Saturday night last in remembrance of the late Michelle Foley. All proceeds from the event will go the Tsunami fund in honour of Michelle Foley's hope of working as a volunteer to help the victims of the tidal wave, a desire that was sadly never realised in life. AGM: The AGM of the Fianna Fail Cumann will be held in the Marian Hall on Friday January 28th at 8.30pm. DEATH: The death took place recently of Jack Lynch, The Garage, Moyvane. Born in Gortdromagowna, He was 59 years of age. His remains were removed to Moyvane Church on Wednesday last, he was buried in Ahavoher Cemetery following Requiem Mass on Thursday last. He is survived by his wife Mary, sons Sean and Paul, brothers, sisters, nephews, nieces, relatives and friends. Sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. THE GAA AGM which was deferred from Sunday last will now take place at the Clubhouse on Sunday evening next, January 30, at 6.30pm. All involved are asked to attend. New members welcome. A number of officerships are vacant and maybe its time for a lady to take a post. SPEED LIMITS: From Thursday last, January 20, speed limits are now metric and are now law. So check the signs and more importantly check your speed as you drive along particularly in approaches to towns and villages where different speed limits may apply. The Gardai say that they will be enforcing the law in relation to the new speed limits. So watch how you go. SPONSORED WALK: On Sunday next, January 30, last years Kerry’s All-Ireland winning captain Dara o’Cinnéide will lead a 10k walk in the Lyreacrompane area. The walk is in aid o the Tralee and Listowel Branches of MS, Tralee Wheelchair Association and the SE Asia Disaster Fund. Sponsorship cards are available from Mary Holland on 086 3452599 or at Kerry Co Council reception desk. Walkers will meet at 1.30pm, at Roches Bar. Your support will be much appreciated. COURSING: Best of luck to Dan, Mary and Grainne O’Connor of Scartaglin Village with their greyhound “Compassionate” who is a runner in the Irish Oaks at the National Coursing meeting at Powerstown Park, Clonmel next week. LADIES FOOTBALL AGM: Scartaglin Ladies Football Club will hold their AGM in the Clubhouse on this Wednesday night, January 23, commencing at 7.30pm. All involved in ladies football in Scartaglin Parish are requested to attend. New members welcome. GAA LOTTO: The GAA Club’s lotto draw for January will be held in the Shoemakers Bar, Castleisland on this Friday night when the jackpot will be ?6700. Those asked to supervise Friday nights draw are Michael Cremin and Tom Boyle. UNWANTED ITEMS: Many households must have unwanted clothes and shoes taking up storage space, so if you have such items, there’s a great opportunity to get rid of same by donating them to the African Missions. The above mentioned items will be collected at Church car parks in Scartaglin, Cordal and Castleisland on Saturday, January 29, before 12 noon. Giving unwanted clothes and shoes to help the African missions is a very charitable deed and its much better than disposing them by other means as destroying them etc. DRAMA: The local Sliabh Luachra Drama Group have been re-hearsing a play for some weeks now and progress has really been made and very soon they will present “Dancing at Luanasa” at the Cultural and Heritage Centre in Scartaglin. Opening night will be Thursday, February 3, and packed houses are expected once again following the groups productions of the past few years. Last year “The Country Boy” proved a resounding success and this years presentation looks set for a similar story. Further details will be available next week. SELF-HELP: Scartaglin and Knocknagoshel IFA branches wish to thank the people of the locality for their contributions towards the Self-Help collection which was held recently in the Parish. The collection amounted to ?163.52. Thanks is also extended to the collectors who helped to take up the collection. SUPERDRAW: An Riocht Health & Leisure Club Superdraw - 1, ?50,000, Katherine Mulligan, Cragg, Castleisland. ?5,000 runner up prize, The Lyons Family, Glounageenty, Ballymacelligott. Winners of ?1000 were Oorla and Con Casey, Cragg, Castleisland; Pat Fitzgerald, Mullaghmarkey (do); John Daly, Meanus, Currans; Michael Dowd, Chutehall, Tralee; Larry Madden, Lahard, Beaufort, Killarney; Eamon Moriarty, Ballydwyer, Ballymacelligott; Kates Kitchen, Barraduff, Headford, Killarney; John and Margaret Ryan, Kilbannivan, Castleisland; Joan Horan, Knockane, Firies; Michael Twomey, Banteer; Brosna GAA Club, Brosna; Frances and Con Moynihan, Laccabawn, Castleisland; Anna Whyte, 42 Castlewood Park, Killerisk, Tralee; Kathleen Twomey, 1300 Ashbury Drive, Lemount, Illinois 60439; Margaret O’Sullivan, Mullaghmarkey, Castleisland; Canon Denis O’Mahony, The Presbytery, Castleisland; Patsy Wren, Cordal Castleisland; Noel White, 12 Tralee Road, Castleisland; Orla O’Donoghue, 29 Balary Avenue, Dundrum, Co Dublin. The Clubhouse & Leisure Centre will be open to the public for viewing on January 25, 26 and 27, from 1-9pm. CAO APPLICATIONS: Second level students who intend to go to College next Autumn are reminded that the closing date for receipt of CAO application forms is Tuesday next, February 1, so its vitally important that applications are received before that date. Students can apply by way of paper application or on-line. The latter is the preferred method as it reduces the margin for error and is user friendly. Applicants are advised to read the CAO handbook carefully before filling out the form. Check and double check course codes and titles. The address of the CAO office. CAO Applications Office, Tower House, Eglinton House, Galway. ST KIERANS MEETING: There will be a general meeting of St Kierans GAA Club on Monday night next, January 31, at 9pm, in the Crown Hotel, Castleisland. FIXTURES: NK League Div 1B, Rd 1, St Senans are away to Listowel this Sunday, January 30 at 2pm. LOTTO: Last weeks numbers were 8, 13, 20, 22. No winner. ?30 each to Susan Gilbert, Ballinclogher, Noel McNamara, Six Crosses, ?20 each to C Walsh, Halfway, Tim O’Connell, Ballyhorgan. Bottle of whiskey to Bridget O’Hanlon, Mountcoal. YOUTH CLUB: Congrats to Christian Somers, on qualifying for the Munster final in Killarney on February 5 in instrumental music. Well done to the ballad group. Disco this Friday night. Bus leaving Mountcoal at 8.30pm. SENIOR SCOR: Will be held in Asdee on Friday night, February 4. Contact Jackie Walsh for further details. COISTE NA NOG: Will hold their AGM on Wednesday, February 2 at the Club House, Mountcoal at 8pm. It is important that at least one parent of all juvenile players attend. MEDAL PRESENTATION: To the u14 and u10 players on Friday night, February 4, further details next week. A night of story telling will be held in St Johns, Listowel on Friday, February 4 at 8.30pm. Adm ?10, proceeds to the Tsunami disaster fund. Bookings 06822566. DROMCLOUGH NS: Parents of pupils for enrolment in Dromclough NS in Sept 2005 are asked to contact the School for an enrolment form, during the week, January 24/28. Also parents of pupils to be enrolled in the School for the next four years, are asked to contact the school so that their child, or children, can be placed on the list of projected enrolments. Phone 06840293. 
