sport football
{  
    May 12 2017 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/localnotes/around-the-districts-35693411.html }
Clothes collection: Taghmon-Camross camogie club will hold its annual clothes collection on Wednesday and Friday, May†10 and 12. Bags can be dropped in to the GAA centre between 6.30†p.m. and 8.30†p.m. both evenings. As always your support is greatly appreciated. Social dancing Dancing continues every Thursday night at TÌr na n”g with music this Thursday, May†11, Pat Hogan, Tom Murphy, May†18 Delta Dawn, May†25 Jimmy Barnwell. All welcome in aid of Ballymitty ball alley new-build. GAA club news Next jackpot fort he lotto will be 9,800. Numbers were 2, 4, 16 and 32. We had no winner in the Model County Draw. Next draw for that will be the last Wednesday in May. Our Intermediate and Junior Football teams lost at the weekend. This weekend is a hurling league with the juniors taking on Clongeen in Grantstown on Sunday. The Junior Ladies match was called off last Sunday week due to torrential rain in the second half in Taghmon. Wish all our students the very best in their college exams. Check the Facebook page and Twitter account for fixtures/venues and results. Ballymitty NS Enrolment forms for incoming Junior Infants are available from the school office or call 051561324. Grantstown News Upcoming Events in Grantstown Daycare Centre: Tuesday, May†9 - annual Trip to Kilmeadan, Co. Waterford. Wednesday, May†10 - Pongo/Outside games in the morning and table quiz in the afternoon. Thursday, May†11 - Pongo in the morning and music/cards in the afternoon. Don't forget you can find all this on Facebook. CE Scheme Vacancies: Grantstown Daycare has vacancies. If you are interested and fulfil the criteria please contact Grantstown Daycare centre at 051 561016. First Responders Carrig Cardiac First Responders will now hold our church gate collection at Carrig-on-Bannow at all masses on Saturday and Sunday, May†20/21. The proceeds will be used for the upkeep of our two defibrillators, for which we run 24-hour a day, 365 days a year rota in association with the National Ambulance Service. We are always in need of more help, so if you feel you can contribute in any way please contact Cat Devereux at 086 3498804 Corach Ramblers FC Huge congratulations to Toddy and the men's first team who have been crowned Wexford Football League Division 1 Champions with four games still to play. A spectacular season for these men who have been incredible throughout and even before the season officially signs off, they are already planning their assault on the Premier next season. Congratulations to Corach Gareth McCurtin who has claimed the Wexford Football League Division 1 Player of the Year. Great stuff, Gareth - well deserved. Friday, May†12, sees the first round of fixtures in the Richie O'Dwyer over-35s league, the very best of luck to all involved, especially our own boys who kick off the campaign away to Taghmon. Congratulations to this week's split-the-pot winner Catherine Murphy, Ballgow. Catherine picks up a brilliant Ä718. Thanks to everyone for your continued support. Notes Deadline for notes submission - to duncannonnotes@gmail.com - is 5†p.m. on Thursday evenings. Ramsgrange Active Retirement Next monthly meeting is on Monday, May†15, in St Louis Day Care Centre starting at 2.15†p.m. - Come along for a chat with old friends and new over a cup of tea and a bun. New members welcome. Social Evenings Social evenings are held in St Louis Day Care Centre at 7.30 every second Tuesday. Annual Plant Sale Ramsgrange Horticultural Group is holding its annual plant sale in the sewing room in South West Wexford, Ramsgrange, on Friday, May†12, from 10†a.m. to 1†p.m. A large selection of bedding plants and shrubs is available at bargain prices. If you cannot make the sale, please visit the Poly Tunnel any Wednesday between 10.30†a.m. and 12.30†p.m. You will find them on the site of SWD Centre Ramsgrange next to the church. Cinema Trip to Omniplex Cinema, Wexford, to see 'Going In Style' on Wednesday, May†24. Cost - Ä12 - Lunch in Kelly's cafe before meal - Bus leaving Ramsgrange car park at midday. Pick-ups from Ramsgrange to Wexford. To book, phone 051 389 012 or 087 0544976. Trip to Cavan Holiday to Cavan, staying in the Slieve Russell Hotel, from Monday, May†8, to Friday, May†12. Cost - which covers four nights B/B and evening meal, transport to and from Cavan, day trips and gratuities - Ä350 per person sharing - Single supplement Ä60. Booking deposit Ä50,. Open to non-members from March†1. Enquiries to 051 389 012 or 087 0544976. Breathing and Relaxation Breathing, relaxation and exercise classes every Thursday in the Sewing Room, CDP Ramsgrange, starting March†9 at 11.45†a.m. - five classes - Payable in advance. Drop-in class - Ä10 pay on the day Cockleshell art room The Cockleshell Art Room in Duncannon will commence a new exhibition on Friday of this week, featuring works by Maeve Doherty, Pat Sherriff, and Mary Wallace, with Photography by Trish McGrath, and Mira and Cara Protopopov, while continuing to show the wood-turned creations of Matty Molloy, the work of Eileen Cloney, Marie McGrath and Se·n Curran. We will also stock the award-winning Simply Safer Scents of Se·n Bennett. Open Thursdays to Mondays (inclusive) from 11†a.m. to 6†p.m. Social dancing Dust off your dancing shoes and join us in St Mary's Hall, Fethard-on-Sea, for our new social dance nights. Kicking off our first dance on Friday, May†12, are the brilliant 'Moynihan Brothers'. Dancing from 9.30†p.m. - Admission Ä8, with complimentary refreshments. Other dates for your dancing diary: Friday, June†16 - Blue Lace, Friday, July†21 - Teresa and the Stars. We look forward to seeing you there. Fatima 100th Anniversary of Fatima. Please support the procession in honour of our Lady, on Saturday, May†13. Commence at Wexford Friary - Mass at 11†a.m. in the Friary followed by the procession. Tea afterwards at the Friary. Knock pilgrimage To celebrate the Ferns Diocesan Day, there will be a one-day coach trip to Knock Shrine, Co. Mayo, on Sunday, July†2. Pick-up points: Wellingtonbridge, The Hollow Bar, Ramsgrange, Campile and New Ross. Fare: Ä55 including two meals. Contact Nicholas Bowe 051 388437 or 087 9418661. St James GAA Club Notes Lotto: There was no winner of the St James lotto jackpot on Tuesday night last and the four numbers drawn were 2, 4, 16 and 32. There were three match-three winners: Rev J. Ryan, Cleariestown, Michael Cheevers, Arthurstown, and Jim Morrissey, Slevoy. The next jackpot is a huge Ä9,800 and the draw will take place on Tuesday, May†16, in Taghmon-Camross GAA clubhouse. All money raised for lotto benefits all areas of the club. Coiste na n”g News: It was a very productive week on the hurling field for our Coiste na n”g teams. In under-14 hurling on Thursday night last our boys defeated Ballygarrett on a 8-14 to 2-2 score line in Mersheen, while our under-16 hurlers were on the road and came home with the spoils over Adamstown with a 4-9 to 2-8 score line at the end. Final registration for the Coiste na n”g season will take place this Sunday, May†7, from 11.15†a.m. to 12.30†p.m. Senior Football: After losing out narrowly to Fethard-St Mogue's in round one the St James senior football team bounced back in fine style to see off county champions Gusserane on a 1-13 to 3-6 score line in O'Kennedy Park, New Ross, on Sunday last with a late goal by Adam Parle and a winning point curled over by Tommy Walsh being the deciding factor right at the death. Intermediate hurling: Attention now switches to the intermediate hurling championship this Sunday in Bellefield when our club will go into the unknown at this level for the first time and will meet seasoned intermediate campaigners Ballygarrett in what promises to be a very tough challenge. We wish the team and mentors best of luck with the fixture details this Sunday, May†2, at 2†p.m. in Bellefield. Golf classic: Preparations are now under way for the annual St James GAA. Club golf classic that will take place in Wexford Golf club on Friday, July†14. A time sheet is now available. Teams of four for Ä140 which includes round of golf and post game dinner in Wexford Golf Club. To book a tee time for your team please contact Noel Holohan 086 8658093. Rosary at the grotto The Rosary is being recited at the Grotto adjacent to Newbawn church every Tuesday and Friday evening at 7.30†p.m. for the duration of the month of May. Also on this Saturday afternoon, May†13, at 4†p.m. to mark the feast of Our Lady of Fatima the Rosary will be recited at the grotto in Newbawn and hopefully there will be a good attendance for those events. Everyone is welcome to come along and join in, with. Families particularly welcome. Sports Ground AGM The annual general meeting of Newbawn Community Sports Ground members took place in the premises on the Sports Ground last Wednesday night. Many items of interest were discussed. Satisfaction was expressed at progress to date, with all the pitches in pristine condition and plenty of activity going on among the young boys and girls of the locality including the local primary school. Many tributes were paid to Nicholas Stafford for his work in relation to the grounds over the past five years and he was wished a happy retirement. The local F·s workers were also complimented. The election of officers resulted as follows - chairman: Michael English, vice-chairman - Benedict Doyle. Secretary - Killien Roche. assistant secretary - John Kent. Treasurer - Kathleen O'Sullivan. PRO. - Jimmy McDonald. Groundsman - Joe Cooper. Security - Mick Delaney. The local community were thanked for their support over the years. Parish support Tickets costing just Ä5 each or Ä30 to cover the six-month period of the draw, confined to 200 members, are currently on sale and can be purchased from any of the Newbawn parish council members. Proceeds from the draw will go towards the upkeep of the Church of the Sacred Heart Newbawn, including the cleaning and painting of the surrounding railings, exterior doors, additional security and lighting, and the heating of the church. A 50/50 draw will take place after 11†a.m. mass on the last Sunday of each month commencing on May†28 in which Ä500 must be won and an equal amount will be placed in the parish funds. Hopefully all parishioners and those with any connection to the area will respond by supporting such a worthy cause, and remember that if you are not in you cant win. Newbawn PTAA The annual general meeting of Newbawn Pioneer Total Abstinence Association took place in the parochial house after 7.45†p.m. Mass last Saturday week. The assistance of the teachers in the local national school in preparation for the recently held Confirmation and encouragement for the young people to join the PTAA movement was greatly acknowledged. Newbawn parish priest Fr Jimmy Moynihan remains on as spiritual director, Jimmy McDonald as PRO and the following are also members of the committee: Noreen Leacy, Mary Stafford, Chris and Patsy Byrne, Peggy and Joe Cooper, Elizabeth Lacey, and Marion Doyle. Look out for a big event taking place next September. Cookery classes The free cookery classes commenced in Raheen Family Resource Centre on Monday, May†8, and will continue for the next six weeks. It's still not too late to join in. This project is part of Raheen Family Resource Centre Community Heart Project. The focus of the programme is heart healthy, quick, delicious food which can be prepared on a low budget and will appeal to the entire family. Although the classes are free of charge. Booking is still essential, so please ring Bridget or Carmen at 051 428805. Gaelic games The top adult teams of the local St Abban's Adamstown GAA Club have been unlucky not to have won their most recent championship games. The intermediate footballers were beaten 1-11 to 0-11 by St Mary's Rosslare, having been ahead by a goal just four minutes from the end. The intermediate hurlers were beaten by a single point by Monageer-Boolavogue at Hollymount. Inaccuracy was the main cause of defeat having driven an inordinate amount of wides. The juniors are doing much better as the footballers defeated Marshalstown-Castledockrell in Adamstown and the hurlers had an impressive win over St James at Mersheen. On this Friday night the junior hurlers travel to play Clongeen and good support would be appreciated. Vintage Road Run The Hillside Vintage and Classic Club will hold their May Road Run on Sunday, May†14, departing the Hillside Bar at 12.30†p.m., continuing via Furlongs of Campile and Morriseys of Cassagh. Vintage and classic tractors, cars, bikes and trucks are welcome. There will be a separate route for cars, bikes and trucks to Hook Head. Entry fee - Ä20 to include complimentary refreshments. All proceeds go to local charities. For further details contact 087 6569140. Ballykelly dance night There will be dancing and great craic at Ballykelly Hall on Friday, May†12, from 10†p.m. till after midnight when Fiona Ennis and Thomas McGuire perform. All money raised will go towards the upkeep of the hall. Entry is Ä8 and refreshments will be served. Recent games The junior footballers got off to a winning start beating Bannow-Ballymitty 4-11 to 3-9 in the District Championship and will be in action again on Friday, May†19, The junior hurlers gave a tremendous first half display in the championship v Bannow-Ballymitty in New Ross last Sunday leading 1-15 to 1-6 but fell away in the second half conceeding three goals to lose 1-21 to 4-13. The hurlers will be at home to Rosslare in the league next Sunday at 2†p.m. Good luck to Se·n Nolan and the Wexford minor hurlers who play Dublin in the Leinster semi-final in Parnell park on Saturday. Last week's lotto numbers were 9, 20, 25 and 31. There was no jackpot winner. Next Monday's draw is in Sooners, Cassagh, and the jackpot is now Ä4,400 Coiste na n”g The under-16 hurlers had their second win beating Cloughbawn 1-15 to 2-11 in a closely contested game in Horeswood. The under-14 hurlers lost 1-8 to 2-7 away to a strong Davidstown side last Thursday. The under-12s were in action twice beating Clongeen in hurling and Rosslare in football. The under-10 hurlers played their first blitz in the Molloy League last Wed. beating Clongeen and St Mullins. Three under-seven hurling teams took part in an excellently organised blitz in Cushinstown last Sun. morning. Fixtures: Thursday the 11th under-14 Football in Bunclody at 7.30. Sunday the 14th under-12 Football at home to St Fintan's Our Lady's Island at 11†a.m. Monday the 15th under-16 football at home to Gusserane at 7.30. Camogie Congratulations to the junior 'C' team, who won the league final against Faythe Harriers in Taghmon on Bank Holiday Monday 2-13 to 1-09. Well done to all involved. The under-16s had an easy win over Blackwater in Division 1 last week. Our spring raffle will be drawn on Saturday, May†13, at 5†p.m. in Caulfield's Centra, Campile. Tickets are available from all club players and from Centra on Friday and Saturday. Your support is appreciated. Ladies' Football The Horeswood Junior team had their second championship win beating St Fintan's 6-11 to 2-6. The under-16s kept up their good run beating Kilmore 8-9 to 1-5. Social dancing Dust off your dancing shoes and join us in St Mary's Hall, Fethard-on-Sea, for our new social dance nights. Kicking off our first dance on Friday, May†12, the brilliant 'Moynihan Brothers'. Dancing from 9.30†p.m. Admission Ä8 with complimentary refreshments. Other dates for your dancing diary: Friday, June†16 - Blue Lace, Friday, July†21 - Teresa and the Stars. We look forward to seeing you there. Campile Bingo There is a weekly game of bingo being held in Campile Hall every Monday Night at. 8.30†p.m. in aid of the ongoing development of the hall, with prize money of Ä1,250 approx being paid out each night with a rolling in-house lotto and Snowball also being played each night. We welcome each and everyone - senior citizens, young and children alike - to try it and enjoy a great night night out and win some some money into the bargain. Knock Pilgrimage There will be a one-day coach trip to Knock Shrine on Sunday, July†2, for the Ferns Diocesan Day. Pick-up points Wellingtonbridge, Hollow Bar, Ramsgrange, Campile, and New Ross Fare Ä55 including two meals contact details Nicholas Bowe phone 051 388437 mobile 087 9418661. Plant Sale Ramsgrange Horticultural Society plant sale is on Friday, May†12, from 10†a.m. to 1†p.m. It's time to get colour into your garden with plants purchased at this sale for very reasonable prices. Soccer Draw Results of draw last Friday night in Furlongs: Ä500.00 Mick Kent Jnr, Knockea. Seller Mick Kent. Ä100 Ciara Mythen, Campile. Seller Giovanni's. Ä50 Martina Reidy c/o Sid's Diner. Seller Sid's Diner. Ä25 Dessie Wallace, Campile. Seller Campile Utd. Next draw in Hart's on Friday, May 26. Campile Utd would like to thank you for your support. News Contacts and Deadlines Please email any articles for publication in the Standard by 9†a.m. on Monday mornings at grooney@hotmail.com, thanks. Stoney Ladies The Stoney Ladies were very unfortunate in the cup final against Tombrack recently in Bunclody on Sunday, April†30. The game finished on a 5-2 score line in the end, with Chloe Foxe being the scorer of Stoney's goals on the day. The girls had a lot of chances on the day but were just unlucky in terms of finishing them. Well done to Chloe, who was named as the divisions top scorer. The girls would like to thanks everyone for all their support throughout the season and hope to be back playing again next season. Stoney Overs Congratulations to the Stoney Over-35s who travelled to Enfield in North London over the weekend to play an International friendly soccer game against Old Ignatians, a well establish club with mostly second- and third-generation Irish people in an excellent club to be admired. The grounds are situated next to the M25-M11 junction next to Tottenham Hotspur's training camp in leafy surroundings yet wishing touching distance of London. The club was established almost a century ago back in 1919. The game finished in a 2-2 result, so we win on away goals, the goals coming from a Wayne Donnelly's free kick in the first half and a Dessie O'Sullivan assist in the second. It was a great weekend and those who travelled were Damien Mullins, Dave Burke, Eugene Cullen, Wayne Donnelly, SÈamus Butler, Michael Whelan, Ger Rooney, Johnny Bennett, Dessie O'Sullivan, Padraic Dundon and PJ Whelan. All arrived on Friday evening and gladly all returned on Sunday afternoon, intact, with nothing only good news to report from the trip. Damien picked up a slight injury but apart from that all was great as we were fed and very well watered by Ignatians, where we were given a welcome second to none. We hope to return the favour to them in 12 months' time and then return there again for their centenary celebrations. Dragons' Den Clongeen man Richard Murphy comes up against the Dragons this week representing his company MyMoodandMe - an online workplace wellness platform. Richard pitches his company to five of the top Entrepreneurs in the country. Will he get the investment he is looking for? Find out next Monday night, May†15, on RT… one at 9.30†p.m. Either way, well done to getting this far and best of luck. Girls' Football Well done to the under-14 girls' football team that played at home to Crossabeg-Ballymurn recently - a great win for the girls. Clongeen 6-03 Crossabeg 2-02. The scorers were: Sarah Bennett 2-01, Grace Donovan 4-01 and Orlaith Butler 0-1. The under-12 football team beat Cushinstown at home on Saturday week last. Clongeen 4-01 Cushinstown 2-06. The scorers were: Sarah Bennett 3-01 and Roisin Murphy 1-0. Well done to Sarah Bennett, Kaelah Farrell and Ellieanna O'Grady, who recently represented Clongeen in under-12 County Trials in Phairc Garman. We'd also like to say well done to Emer and Trina and the Wexford football team that drew to Tipperary a couple of weeks back. Finally, well done to Grace Donovan and Jenny O'Brien and the wexford under-14 football team v Westmeath in the Leinster championship final last Saturday. Under-10 girls' football Best of luck to the under-10s vs St James in Clongeen on Wednesday, May†10, at 7.30†p.m. Ladies' Football Best of luck to the ladies' football team in the next round of their league campaign, away to St Martin's, this Friday, May†12, at 8†p.m. The girls are also away to Shelmaliers B in the championship on May†16 also at 8†p.m. Please come along and support the girls. The management of Clongeen Ladies' Football Club wishes to clarify that following an article on the Clongeen notes on 24/04/17 last, stating that players were withheld from playing camogie due to Football Championship fixture. Under no circumstances would the management withhold or prevent any player from playing another sport while playing football with the club. Coiste na n”g Clongeen GAA Coiste na n”g are hosting a breakfast morning in aid of feile on next Sunday morning, May†14, in the clubhouse 10†a.m. to 12.30†p.m. The cost is Ä10 per adult and Ä5 per child. All support would be appreciated. Well done to Cluain O'Rahillys under-14 hurlers who got their campaign off to a winning start with an excellent 3-8 to 1-4 victory against St Mary's Rosslare. Turning round level at half time having played with the wind, the boys really stepped up in the second half, with two Cathal Murphy goals and a third by Ryan O'Grady paving the way. Team: Dean Sinnott (G), Jack Roche (G), Se·n Whelan (G), Thomas Coleman (C), John Whelan (C), Michael Dundon (C - 0-2), Michael Mulligan (G), Cathal Murphy (C - 2-0), Shane Culleton (G), Fionn Mullally (G - 0-2), Adam Whlean (G), Cormac Kiely (G), Luke Murphy (C), Ryan O'Grady (C - 1-2), Eoghan Twomey (G). Sub: Jack Rossiter (G - 0-2). A massive well done to all the boys who played with Ramsgrange Community School under-14 who won their county final on Thursday also. Our under-14 hurlers, continued their winning start to the championship with a hard fought 1-5 to 1-3 victory over Kilmore on Thursday last. Though dominating possession, conceding a soft goal saw us a point behind at half time, and despite having chances, we struggled to draw level till Cathal Murphy popped up for a late goal to give us a deserved victory. Team: Jack Rossiter (G), Jack Roche (G), Se·n Whelan (G), Thom·s Coleman (C), Michael Mulligan (G), Michael Dundon (C - 0-2), Pat Finn (C), Cathal Murphy (C - 1-0), Adam Whelan (G 0-1), Eoin Power (G), Cormac Kiely (G), Fionn Mullally (G - 0-1), Luke Murphy (C), Ryan O'Grady (C - 0-1), Eoin Twomey (G), Bryan Hopkins (C), Martin Doyle (C), Paul Murphy (C), Darragh Mythen (C). Under-14 football training in Gusserane this Tuesday, May†9, at 7†p.m. till 8.30†p.m. Well done to Moguegeen Gaels (Clongeen-Fethard) under-16 hurlers last Monday evening. They beat Taghmon-Camross 2-7 to 0-9 in Fethard. Well done to our under-12 who went down fighting recently losing in hurling to both Kilmore and Horeswood and to Fethard in football. The lads keep putting a great effort and there will be better days ahead. Finally, two under-eight teams enjoyed a blitz recently in Cushinstown where both teams hurled very well. Both teams deseved their medals and enjoyed the refreshments provided by Cushinstown GAA Club. Plant Sale Ballycullane Veggie Growers are having their annual plant sale in Ballycullane Parish Hall this Saturday, May†13, at 10†a.m. to 2†p.m. Fruit, flowers and vegetable plants will be on sale. Tea are also served. The Veggie Growers grow organic fruit and vegetables on a community plot. If you are interested in joining the group, come along any Tuesday evening at 7†p.m. or ring Anne 087 6788652 for more details. Saint Padre Pio The Saint Padre Pio Monthly Mass will be celebrated in Ballycullane Church tomorrow evening Wednesday, May†10, at 7.30†p.m. Mass will be preceeded by Rosary at 7.10†p.m. Lotto There was no jackpot winner in the Tintern lotto draw last week. Five people matched three numbers and each received Ä40. They were; Rory Whelan, Tintern. John Cullen, Yoletown. David Furlong, Yoletown, Caitriona Whity, Dunmain, and Sandra Stafford, Wexford. The numbers drawn were 7, 8, 9 and 14. Next week's jackpot will be Ä17,900 and next week's match-three winners will share Ä200. Tickets on sale in all local shops and from committee members. Cards John Sinnott, David Murphy and Se·n Colfer shared first and second prize with Jack Waters, Se·n O'Grady and Michael Kehoe at the cards in the hall on Saturday night last. Joint third were; Tom Culleton, Pat Whelan, John Reville and Kathleen Cadogan, Willie White, Luke Power and Charlie Collins, Joan Fardy and Maureen Eustace. The raffle winners were Margaret Kinsella, Jimmy Cullen, Michael Kehoe and Alice Gaffney. The cards continue every Saturday night in the hall at 8.30†p.m. First Communion Congratulations to all the boys and girls from Poulfur National School, who made their First Holy Communion in Poulfur Church las Sunday. Well done also to their parents and teachers who prepared them for the event. They were blessed with glorious sunshine to celebrate the day. Drive-in Bingo St Mogue's Ladies' Club is running a Drive-in bingo on Sunday, June†4, at 3†p.m. in Fethard GAA Pitch, Ramstown. With Ä1,500 in prizes that's a date in your diary for all bingo players. Fethard St Mogue's The intermediate hurlers played Shelmaliers in the first round of the championship in Taghmon last Sunday evening. A goal and point from Eddie Power and Mark Wallace's accuracy from frees saw them lead by four points after 25 minutes. Shelmaliers got the next three points to trail by one at the break. Mark Wallace extended the lead before Shels struck for a goal from the puck out to take the lead. Mikie Dwyer, who had been introduced at the break started to make an impact as they pulled five clear with five minutes to go. However Shels got their second goal to reduce the margin again. They Fethard defence who were well marshalled by the impressive Garret Foley held strong and it was fitting that Eddie Power made sure of the victory deep in injury time as the won by 1-14 to 2-7. The senior footballers played Taghmon the previous weekend but failed to live up to their performance in the first round. They trailed by a point at the break despite the best efforts of John Tubritt, who scored 1-2. Paul Foley pulled of two fantastic saves in a row to keep Fethard in the game. Points from Ruari Tubrid, Kevin Rowe, Garrett Foley and John Tubritt saw them lead by two with normal time almost up but Taghmon scored two frees in injury time to force a draw. Congratulations to Josie Sutton, who was the recipient of an award and the recent New Ross District Awards Night. Josie has given tremendous service to both the underage and adult sections of the club for a number of years. District chairman, John Hanton also received an award for his service to the district and to the club. Social dancing Dust off your dancing shoes and join us in St Mary's Hall, Fethard-on-Sea, for our new social dance nights. Kicking off our first dance on Friday, May†12, the brilliant 'Moynihan Brothers' dancing from 9.30†p.m. Admission Ä8 with complimentary refreshments. Other dates for your dancing diary: Friday, June†16 - Blue Lace, Friday, July†21 - Teresa and the Stars. We look forward to seeing you there. Weekly lotto Ä10,200 There was no winner of last week's club's lotto jackpot of Ä10,100 so next week's jackpot stands at Ä10,200. The winning numbers were 2, 20, 22 and 28 and bonus number 34. Golf classic Golf classic in aid of of Irish Lourdes Prilgrimage Trust on Saturday, May†27, in the Abbey Par 3. Ä20 per person. Times 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Contact Liz for more details at 087 9529217 or Frank at 086 6084257. Great prizes. Please support this great charity. Scramble results Results of Abbey Ladies Scramble in Enniscorthy on Saturday, May†6. First Team M. Terese Wall, Ann Crosbie, Margaret Murphy with 72.5 points. Second team Ann Banville Bernie Murphy, Teenie Murphy with 76.4 points. NP Carole Murphy. Well done to all who played. Next outing in the Abbey on Friday, May†26. New To You Sale New to You Sports Sale in aid of hosting FÈile 2017 on Sunday, May†21, between 10†a.m. and 2†p.m. in Neville's (upstairs). Any donations of used or new sports wear and accessories (watersports, golf, GAA, etc) would be greatly appreciated and can be given to mentors at training sessions, or contact Anne Nunan or Kelly Foley for collection. We will also be organising collection evenings at the pitch. C˙l Camps This year's C˙l Camp is on in Fethard from July†10 to July†14. This is open to all boys and girls aged six to 13. The cost for the five-day camp is Ä60 (and discounts for further children within the same family) and this includes a zip top, T-shirt and gear bag as shown in the poster. To ensure you get the gear early, if you book before May†1, we will have your gear to give out in June. Anyone who books after May†1 will get their gear on the first day of camp. If you have any questions, feel free to contact Mark Hanton at 087 2415342. Online booking link here: kelloggsculcamps.gaa.ie/booking/online/. Fitness Circuit Classes Fethard fitness weekly circuit classes on Monday and Wednesday evenings at 7†p.m. Learn to lift Friday at 6.30†p.m. Beginner Friday at 7.30†p.m. Saturday morning at 10†a.m. Personal and group sessions weekly. Contact Nuala at 087 9111901 for more information or check out Facebook at Fethard. Fitness Step and Tone Classes New Step and Tone Classes in St Mary's Hall, Fethard-on-Sea, on Friday nights at 10†a.m. Also circuit classes in Ramsgrange CS Gym on Mondays at 7.30†p.m. and St Mary's Hall, Fethard, on Wednesday at 10†a.m. All fitness levels welcome and catered for. Contact Maureen: 087 7479258 Community Employment Scheme Would you like to join our team at South West Wexford Family Resource Centre and gain valuable Work Experience and Training on our CE Scheme? While you are on the CE Scheme, you are also entitled to take on other paid work. We have vacancies in childcare, receptionist/administration, a cleaner to support the Sughradh Childcare Centre, maintenance for St James GAA Club, Community Cafe. Please contact Tilly Carroll, CE Scheme supervisor, at 051 389418 for application form or pick one up at reception. Please ensure you are registered with DSP. St Louis Day Care Centre St Louis Day Care Centre, Ramsgrange, 051 389509. Assisted home living for the elderly. Meals on Wheels delivered daily, day care services, home baking services, medical services and counselling including bereavement support. Chiropody and hair dressing services by appointment. Ramsgrange Plant Sale Ramsgrange Horticultural Society plant sale is on Friday, May†12, from 10†a.m. to 1†p.m. It's time to get colour into your garden with plants purchased at this sale for very reasonable prices. Knock Pilgrimage There will be a one-day coach trip to Knock Shrine on Sunday, July†2, for the Ferns Diocesan Day. Pick-up points Wellingtonbridge, Hollow Bar Ramsgrange, Campile and New Ross. Fare Ä55 including two meals. Contact Nicholas Bowe at 051 388437 or 087 9418661. Ballycullane Plant Sale Ballycullane Veggie Growers are having their annual plant sale in Ballycullane Parish Hall on Saturday, May†13, at 10†a.m. to 2†p.m. Fruit, flowers and vegetable plants will be on sale. Tea are also served. The Veggie Growers grow organic fruit and vegetables on a community plot. It you are interested in joining the group, come along any Tuesday evening at 7†p.m. or ring Anne 087 6788652 for more details. Swimming club Slade Swimming Club is having its official launch day this Sunday, May†14, 9.30†a.m. in Slade, Fethard-on-Sea. We have try-a-swim for anyone interested in potentially joining, along with information on membership and club swims. All are welcome to attend as there will be refreshments served after the swim. Football Gusserane's Intermediate ladies will have two very busy weeks ahead. On May†12 they are away to Clonard in the league at 7.15†p.m. Then on May†16 they are away to Fethard at 7†p.m. and at home to St Martin's on Sunday, May†21, at 5†p.m. in the championship. All support greatly appreciated. Well done to Aisling Murphy on a great performance with the Wexford Ladies in the league final. The G4G programme is entering its final two weeks and is proving a great success. The club would like to thank the mentors for coaching the girls, the parents for encouraging the girls and of course to the girls themselves and here's looking forward to seeing them all playing in the blue and gold. Finally, our under-eights play Bannow next Monday while our under-10 and under-12 teams will play in the coming week. Plant Sale Ballycullane Veggie Growers are having their annual plant sale in Ballycullane Parish Hall on Saturday, May†13, from 10†a.m. to 2†p.m. Fruit, flowers and vegetable plants will be on sale. Tea will also be served. The Veggie Growers grow organic fruit and vegetables on a community plot. It you are interested in joining the group, come along any Tuesday evening at 7†p.m. or ring Anne 087 6788652 for more details. Vintage Run The Cassagh Vintage Run in aid of the New Houghton Hospital Residents' Activities takes place on Sunday, May†21. It leaves Alan Morrissey's Pub at 1†p.m. There will be a DJ and barbecue back in Alan's from 4†p.m. This will be preceded by live music and a raffle on the Saturday night beforehand. Your support for this good cause would be most appreciated. Church gate collection. The church gate collection at masses on the weekend of May†13 and 14 are in aid of the Irish Society for Autism. Your support once again this year would be most appreciated. Tidy Village The fruits of the efforts of the Gusserane Tidy Village committee are beginning to be noticed. The big litter clean-up has been followed by much washing and painting of walls and the little village is certainly looking brighter. Well done to one and all and keep up the good work. GAA news The club would like to thank all those who bought the County Development Draw tickets. Sales in the club increased on last year and your continued support is most welcome. Well done to the junior hurlers on an impressive win over Faythe Harriers in the championship last Sunday. There was little between the teams for three quarters of the game but Gusserane managed to pull away towards the end to record a valuable victory. Gusserane put out three adult football teams in championship games a week earlier. The seniors were pipped by one point by St James. The juniors clocked up a big win against Clongeen and the junior B team went down to a strong Taghmon-Camross team. This weekend the junior B hurlers begin their campaign with a tricky fixture against Rathgarogue-Cushinstown on Saturday evening in Gusserane. Lotto There was no winner of the Tintern lotto last week, which means that the jackpot this week rises to Ä17,900. The numbers drawn were 7, 8, 9 and 14. The match-three winners were Rory Whelan of Tintern, John Cullen of Yoletown, David Furlong of Yoletown, Caitriona Whitty of Dunmain and Sandra Stafford of Wexford. Rosary There will be a public recitation of the Rosary at the grotto outside St John the Baptist Church in Gusserane on Saturday, May†13, at 4†p.m. to mark the centenary of the apparition of Our Lady of Fatima. Padre Pio. Mass in honour of the revered Capuchin monk Padre Pio will be celebrated in Ballycullane on Wednesday, May†10, at 7.30†p.m. It will be preceded at 7.05†p.m. by the recitation of the Rosary. Cards Winners in the hall in Gusserane last week were David Murphy, James McDonald and Pat Whelan. Second went to Declan Egan, Marie Doyle and Noel Redmond. Third were Karl Hall, Johnny Cogley and James Larkin while the last game draw went to John Sinnott, Kathleen Cadogan and Martin Stafford. Raffle winners were Marie Power, John Sinnott, Kieran Keating and Margaret O'Neill. Patron Dates for the annual patron and blessing of the Graves have now been finalised. On Saturday, June†17, the graveyards at Poul (6†p.m.) and Rathimney (6.30†p.m.) will be visited. On Saturday, June†24, the graveyard at Nash will be visited at 6†p.m. This will be followed at 7†p.m. by a visit to Gusserane Cemetery, where outdoor mass will take place, weather permitting. The patron this year falls on the actual feast day of St John the Baptist, after whom the church in Gusserane is dedicated. Cassagh Vintage Run In aid of the New Haughton Hospital Residents Activities, on Sunday, May†28, in Alan Morrissey's Pub Cassagh at 1†p.m. Registration starts at 11†a.m. A barbecue and DJ from 4†p.m. Also live music and raffle on Saturday the 27th at Alan Morrissey's Pub Cassagh. Cushinstown Parish Developments. Monthly bingo will be held on the first Sunday of each month, and the next monthly bingo is Sunday, May†7, and Eyes Down at 7.30†p.m. GAA Notes Congratulations: Congratulations to John Brennan on receiving an award at the 25th annual New Ross District Awards night held recently in the Horse and Hound. John is a worthy recipient of the award having devoted many years playing with the club, a worthy award winner from all in Rathgarogue-Cushinstown. Fit(ish) Family Competition 2017: The Fit(ish) Family returns Saturday, July†1. If interested in taking part or have any queries please contact Francis O'Brien at 087 7885475 or Christine Nolan at 087 2279950. All funds raised going towards the development of our new pitches which we are hoping to start this year. Academy: The Academy are delighted to announce McSorley's Centra, Ballinaboola, are now our main sponsors and we would like to thank McSorley's for their continued support. Rathgarogue-Cushinstown GAA Academy is proud to announce their Nursery Programme for boys/girls aged four and five. Taking place every Saturday morning at 10.15†a.m. in the GAA grounds, this is an opportunity to introduce your child to the skills of Gaelic games in a fun way. We will play games and develop balance and coordination. The nursery programme started Saturday, April†29, and will run for 10 weeks. The cost is Ä10 per child in total for the 10 weeks. For more details please contact MairÈad O'Brien at 087 9784209.' Club lotto: Please support our lotto as all money raised go to the running costs of our club. Tickets can be purchased through many members of our club or if you would like to receive a book of tickets biweekly please contact any committee member. Thank you for your ongoing support with our lotto. Cards The weekly '30' card game continues in the Community Centre this Friday, May†12, at 9†p.m. Thanks to the ladies for the tea last week. Catering on Friday, May†12, will be Gillian O'Neill, Edel Doyle, Ann Marie O'Shea and Geraldine O'Shea; catering on Friday, May†19, will be Breda Bradley, Kay McCabe and Angela Harrington; on Friday the 26th will be Breda Kelly, Valerie Kelly, Christine Mackey, Ann O'Brien and Eileen Moran. Proceeds going to Parish Funds. Card winners on Friday, April†29, were: Betty O'Shea, John Nolan, Patsy Byrne, SÈamus Joyce, Matt O'Neill and John Hanley. All the card players wish to extend their deepest sympathy to the wife and sons of the late Pat Ryan, St Mullins, who died last week. His funeral Mass took place in St Mullins on Sunday last. May his gentle soul rest in peace. Split-the-pot The lucky winner in the split-the-pot draw on Wednesday, May†3, was Richard Whelan, a pupil in Adamstown NS. Richards's envelope was sold in the school, Jack Carty was the Ä10 winner for entries sold in the school. Well done, lads. First Holy Communion Children from second class in Adamstown National School will receive their First Holy Communion on this Saturday, May†13, in St Abban's Church at 11†a.m. Please remember the children and their parents in your prayers. Alzheimer's Tea Day Ellie Walsh and family, Tomgarrow will host an 'Alzheimer's Tea' on Saturday, May†20, from 2†p.m. to 5†p.m. at their home. Hand knitted exhibition 'Dinosaurs and Friends'. Your support is much appreciated. All money collected in Wexford stays in Wexford. Athletic Club News Well done to all the athletes that competed in day one of the South Leinster Schools T & F. Results from Day 1: Cormac Byrne first in the minor boys javelin, Rachel Power first in the junior girls discus, Aoibhinn Crean third in the junior girls' walk and Triona Mooney first in the senior girls' walk. Best of luck to all the athletes that will compete in day two of the South Leinster Schools T & F and day one of the County T & F Championships on Sunday, May†7, Joe Mooney competed in the UK 10km race walking National Championships in Coventry last weekend and finished third. Well done to Joe, what a great performance. Rosary at Knockreigh Grotto The Rosary will be recited at the Knockreigh Grotto at 8†p.m. Monday to Friday for the month of May, all welcome to join in. Golden Jubilee There will be a meeting in the Community Centre this Thursday night, May†11, at 8†p.m. to make arrangements for reception following Mass for Fr Nolan's Golden Jubilee on Friday, May†26. Refreshments - sandwiches, cakes etc - will be much appreciated, also help with setting up the room in Col·iste Abbain. If you are unable to attend and would like to be involved please contact any member of the Parish Committee. Litter Pick As part of An Taisce National Spring Clean there will be a litter pick taking place on Saturday, May†13, starting at 10.30†a.m. at Rosbercon Parish Hall and at 11†a.m. in Mullinarrigle. All help would be much appreciated for approximately one hour and gloves and bags will be provided for the volunteers. All taking part are asked to bring their hi-vis jackets with them. Historical Society The South Kilkenny Historical Society will host another of its series of lectures on Thursday, May†11, in the Rising Sun, Mullinavat. Commencing at 8†p.m., the topic is 'The 1917 Kilkenny By-election' and the speaker will be Dr Eugene Broderick with the admission fee of only Ä5, with members going free. All are welcome to attend what should be a very interesting talk. Development Draw The Tullogher-Rosbercon Development Draw for April took place on the 25th in the clubhouse. Winner of the top prize of Ä250 was Brendan Grace from the Parish Pump while prizes of Ä100 each went to Maura O'Neill and Michael Lyng respectively. The next draw will take place on Tuesday, May†30, with new members welcome to join for Ä10 per month. Intermediate Hurling After being defeated by Tullaroan 3-17 to 1-15 in the first round of the Kilkenny League/Championship it was better news for the locals in round two. Here, they played out a thrilling draw with Dunamaggin on the score line of 0-14 to their opponents 1-11. Tough games are still to come in the group but improving form can gain them vital points. Coach Trip A coach trip taking in Glendalough, Wicklow Gaol and Avondale House has been planned for Saturday, May†27, It will depart from the Rising Sun, Mullinavat, at 8 a.m. returning there at 10†p.m. approx. The all-in cost is Ä65, which includes bus fare and an evening meal at the Ashdown Park Hotel in Gorey. Further details can be had from Mrs Brigid Barron, Blossom Hill, Kilmacow, 087 9507295, or Eddie Synnott Weatherstown, Glenmore, 086 8124349. Parish Meetings There will be a meeting of the Rosbercon Parish Finance Committee in the Parochial House on Monday, May†15, at 8†p.m. On Wednesday the 15th the Parish Cemetery Committee will meet at the same venue at 7.30†p.m. Talk to your Teenager This eight-week course supports parents to build good relationships with their children. Suitable for parents of children age 11 up. The course is free, it will cover topics such as conflict, communication and connecting with your teenager. Starting Wednesday, April†26, from 6.45†p.m. to 9†p.m. at South west Wexford Family Resource Centre. Contact Jane to book your place 051 389418 familysupport@swwfrc.ie. Community employment We have vacancies in the following areas on our Community Employment Scheme at South West Wexford Family Resource Centre: Childcare, Front Desk Receptionist, Cleaner to support the Sugradh Childcare Centre, Maintenance for St James GAA Club. Please contact Tilly Carroll, CE Scheme Supervisor at 051 389418 for Application Form or pick one up at reception. Please ensure you are registered with DSP. Education at SWWFRC Training and Development (Train the Trainer), Special purpose award, Level 6: Cost Ä325 per module, Ä550 for both. Training Needs, Identification and Design and Training Delivery and Evaluation starting Saturday, May†6, at 9.30†a.m. Courses will run subject to minimum numbers confirmed. Recipients of social welfare may be entitled to funding towards courses. Easy payment plans can be availed of for all courses. Phone Jan/Sharon at 051 389418 for further details or to book a place on any of the above courses. Getting Citizens Online at SWWFRC - Avail of 10 hours' free training to enhance your digital skills by Getting Citizens Online. Next class commencing shortly. Please call reception at 051 389418 to secure a place. BTEI at SWWFRC BTEI courses are free if you are an early school leaver, are in receipt of a social welfare payment or have a medical card. Tourism and heritage training programme Tuesday and Thursday Morning 9.30†a.m. to 1.30†p.m. To equip the participant with the knowledge and skills to understand the social and economic benefits of tourism and to have an awareness of their own role in meeting the needs and expectations of visitors. To facilitate participants to explore and appreciate Irish cultural and heritage resources and therefore develop their own philosophies, values and critical thinking in a range of cultural and heritage contexts. Ooofice skills level four Tuesday and Thursday 9.30†a.m. to 1.30†p.m. This programme aims to equip the participant with the knowledge, skills and competencies to perform administrative functions within an office environment, to perform mathematical calculations in a business environment and interpret and present the results effectively, to work in a reception or front office area and to participant in a work place environment. St Louis Stitchers St Louis Stitchers Group meets every Wednesday 11†a.m. to 1†p.m. at South West Wexford Family Resource Centre (SWWFRC), Ramsgrange. New Members very welcome. For more information please contact SWWFRC Reception at 051 389418. Women's Group Shelbourne Women's group meet every Monday at South West Wexford Family Resource Centre (SWWFRC).The group meets from 10.30†p.m. to 12.30†p.m. New members very welcome. For more information please contact SWWFRC Reception at 051 389418. Blokes with Cameras Blokes with Cameras meet every Wednesday at 7†p.m. at South West Wexford Family Resource Centre (SWWFRC), Ramsgrange. All abilities welcome. For more information please contact SWWFRC Reception at 051 389418. Yoga Yoga classes are running every Monday evening from 7.30†p.m. to 8.30†p.m. at South West Wexford Family Resource Centre. Classes are Ä10 drop in or six class cards for Ä50. Contact Finola at 087 3641540 for more information. Active Retirement Next monthly meeting is on Monday, May†15, in the St Louis Day Care Centre at 2.15†p.m. Come along for a chat with new and old friends over a cup of tea and a bun. New members welcome. Trip to Omniplex Cinema Wexford, on Wednesday, May†24, to see the film Going in Style. Cost is Ä12. Lunch in Kelly's CafÈ before film. Bus leaving Ramsgrange car park at midday. Pick ups from Ramsgrange to Wexford. To book please phone 051 389012 or 087 0544976. Social Evenings will be held in the St Louis Day Care Centre at 7.30 every second Tuesday, Starting on Tuesday, February†21. Holiday to Cavan staying in the Slieve Russell Hotel, from Monday, May†8, to Friday, May†12. Cost - which covers four nights B/B and evening meal, transport to and from Cavan, day trips and gratuities - Ä350 per person sharing. Single supplement Ä60. Booking deposit of Ä50 payable at the February meeting. Open to non-members from March†1. Enquiries to 051 389012 or 087 0544976. Have you two hours to spare on Tuesday mornings from 10†a.m. to midday? Ramsgrange Community School seeks volunteers for light gardening maintaining its community garden. Come and join our friendly and sociable group, if interested please contact Ann at 083 0054438. Senior citizens AGM Senior citizens Concern CLG are holding their annual AGM on Wednesday, May 24, at 8†p.m. in St Louis Day Care Centre. Local Link Wexford To book your seat on the Local Link Bus please contact the office at 053 9196276 or email wexford@locallink.ie. Slimming World Slimming World Classes here in South West Wexford FRC on Saturday mornings, weigh-in time is 9.30. Please contact Yvonne Byrne at 086 3147332 for more details. Campile study group A few spaces have become available at our Parent Supervised Study Group being held in Campile Hall, the study group is now taken place on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday evenings from 6†p.m. to 9†p.m. at a cost of Ä20 per student monthly. If anyone is interested in joining the Study Group further details can be obtained by contacting Nicholas at 087 9418661 or Campile Hall at 087 2183300. Social dancing Dust off your dancing shoes and join us in St Mary's Hall, Fethard-on-Sea for our new social dance nights. Kicking off our first dance on Friday, May†12, the brilliant 'Moynihan Brothers 'Dancing from 9.30†p.m. Admission Ä8 with complimentary refreshments. Other dates for your dancing diary: Friday, June†16 - Blue Lace, Friday, July†21 - Teresa and the Stars. We look forward to seeing you there. Campile Hall There is a weekly game of bingo being held in Campile Hall every Monday night at 8.30†p.m. in aid of the ongoing development of the hall, with prize money of Ä1,250 approx being paid out each night with a rolling in-house lotto and Snowball also being played each night. We welcome each and everyone senior citizens, young and children alike to try it and enjoy a great night out and win some money into the bargain. Horticultural Society The Ramsgrange Horticultural Society plant sale is on Friday, May†12, from 10†a.m. to 1†p.m. It's time to get colour into your garden with plants purchased at this sale for very reasonable prices. If you have 5' pots that you don't want anymore, please leave them at the tunnel at South West Wexford any day. Vintage Road Run The Hillside Vintage and Classic Club will hold their May Road Run on Sunday, May†14, departing the Hillside Bar at 12.30†p.m., continuing via Furlongs of Campile and Morriseys of Cassagh. Vintage and classic tractors, Cars, Bikes and Trucks are welcome. There will be a separate route for cars, bikes and trucks to Hook Head. Entry fee - Ä20 to include complimentary refreshments. All proceeds go to local charities. For further details contact 087 6569140. GAA Club Notes Lotto: There was no winner of the St James lotto jackpot on Tuesday night last with the four numbers drawn were 2, 4, 16 and 32. There was three match-three winners Rev J. Ryan Cleariestown, Michael Cheevers, Arthurstown, and Jim Morrissey Slevoy. The next jackpot is a huge Ä9,800 and the draw will take place on Tuesday, May†16, in Taghmon-Camross GAA Clubhouse. All money raised for lotto benefits all areas of the club. Coiste na n”g News: It was a very productive week on the hurling field for our Coiste na n”g teams. In under-14 hurling on Thursday night last our boys defeated Ballygarrett on a 8-14 to 2-2 score line in Mersheen, while our under-16 hurlers were on the road and came home with the spoils over Adamstown with a 4-9 to 2-8 score line at the end. Final registration for the Coiste na n”g season will take place this Sunday, May†7, 11.15†a.m. to 12.30†p.m. Senior Football: After losing out narrowly to Fethard St Mogue in round one the St James senior football team bounced back in fine style to see off county champions Gusserane on a 1-13 to 3-6 score line in O'Kennedy Park, New Ross on Sunday last with a late goal by Adam Parle and a winning point curled over by Tommy Walsh being the deciding factor right at the death. Intermediate hurling - Attention now switches to the intermediate hurling championship this Sunday in Bellefield when our club will go into the unknown at this level for the first time and will meet seasoned intermediate campaigners Ballygarrett in what promises to be a very tough challange we wish the team and mentors best of luck with the fixture details this Sunday, May†2, at 2†p.m. in Bellefield v Ballygarrett. Golf classic - Preparations are now under way for the annual St James GAA Club golf classic that will take place in Wexford Golf club on Friday, July†14, A time sheet is now available. Teams of four for Ä140 which includes round of golf and post-game dinner in Wexford Golf Club. To book a tee time for your team please contact Noel Holohan 086 8658093. Lotto This week's lotto jackpot stands at Ä20,000, and the reserve jackpot at Ä20,000.The numbers drawn were 21, 22, 25 and 32, and there was no winner. Consolation winners of Ä60 each were William Delaney, Aileen Sheehy, Bill Crean, Ted Kinsella and John Foley. Tickets are on sale in local business, and from committee members. Library news Library Membership is Free for every one. Gymboree with Maggie will be in Graig library on Thursday, May†4, 10.11†a.m. This is a free event. Bealtaine events in the Graig Library: Newspaper Archive Crafts: Use our Newspaper Archives to create a card Tuesday, May†9, at 10.30†a.m. (Booking essential) Music Therapy: Singing and Movement with Ann Moylan Friday, May†19, at 11†a.m. Back to Basics: Nutrition and Exercise Tuesday, May†30, 6.30†p.m. to 7.30†p.m. Staying Safe Online Tips and Info: Free workshop with Laura Allen, social media tips, internet safety, friendly, fun event in Graiguenamanagh Library, Tuesday, May†16, 6†p.m. to 7.30†p.m. Presented in partnership with the Bank of Ireland. Local Enterprise Office Kilkenny will be in Graig library on Friday, May†19, 10†a.m. to midday To book a place for no obligation session with a professional business advisor call the library 056 7794178 or Leo Kilkenny at 056 7752662 An exhibition of paintings by Teresa Hearne Coppenagh is on display in the library viewing during usual opening times. Split-the-pot This week's winners first prize-John Hynes-Ä360. Second prize - Caitriona O'Keeffe-Ä75. Third Prize - Luke Holden - Ä50. Graig text alert The chairman of the Graig text alert scheme Cllr Chap Cleere has said that the annual subscription will be due shortly for the text alert scheme. Also the AGM for the text alert scheme will be held in the coming weeks and details of how to join/continue in the scheme will all be included as part of this. The Fianna Fail cuman in Graiguenamamagh would like to thank all of those who supported the church gate collection over the weekend. County jive class Four-week course. Starting Tuesday, May†9. 7†p.m. Parish Hall, Rosbercon, New Ross. Couples welcome, or come with friends and learn together. For info or to book your place call or text 087 7999166. Graig Fianna Fail The Fianna Fail cumann in Graiguenamamagh would like to thank all of those who supported the church gate collection over the weekend. Free Cookery Classes Free cookery classes take place in Raheen Family Resource Centre on Mondays, from 10†a.m. to 1†p.m. This project is part of Raheen Family Resource Centre Community Heart Project. The focus of the programme is heart healthy, quick, delicious food which can be prepared on a budget and will appeal to all the family. The classes were very popular last time round with a great attendance and we look forward to the same this time. The classes are free of charge but booking is essential, please contact Bridget or Carmen at 051 428805. Summer camps Summer camps will take place in Raheen Family Resource Centre on the following dates this year: July†10 to July†14 for 10- to 12-year-olds, July†17 to 21 for seven- to nine-year-olds, and July†24 to 28 for four- to six-year-olds. We will have a wide variety of activities including arts and crafts, games, pottery, macramÈ, collage and much more. The cost of the camps is Ä30 per child and family rates apply. For further information and booking contact Bridget at 051 428805. Church Notices Anniversaries: Saturday, May†13, at 7†p.m. - Bernadette Holohan; Sunday, May†14, at 10†a.m. - Josie White. James Nolan, Newtown. Mass This Week: Tuesday, Thursday and Friday Mass at 9.30†a.m. First Holy Communion: Please keep in your prayers the boys and girls who will make their First Holy Communion next Saturday, May†13. Medical Missionaries Of Mary: A Sister from the Medical Missionaries Of Mary will visit the parish and make an appeal for their work at the Masses next Saturday the 13th/Sunday, May†14. TrÛcaire: Thanks to all who returned TrÛcaire money. Ä700 was collected this year. Church gate collection: A church gate collection in aid of the Irish Cancer Society will take place next weekend May†13 and 14 2017. Bingo Bingo is played every Tuesday night at 8.30†p.m. in Rathnure hall. Rathnure Bingo is active on Facebook - search for 'Rathnure Bingo' and like our page. Thank you. The bingo jackpot on Tuesday the ninth is Ä2,600. Rathnure NS Safety Notice: Rathnure NS is involved in the Cycling Ireland Programme taking place each Tuesday till the end of May. Please note that the pupils taking part will be travelling by bicycle on the roads before and after school for the coming weeks. Please be aware of their presence and drive slowly. Green Schools: We received the great news last week that our application for the renewal of the green flag based on the travel theme has been successful. We look forward to raising our fourth green flag before the summer holidays. CE Position CE groundsperson position available: Rathnure, start date ASAP. Eligibility to participate on CE is generally linked to those who are 25 years of age or over and in receipt of an Irish social welfare payment for one year or more. Please contact your local Intreo office to apply or alternatively contact Rathnure Killanne Blackstairs CE office: 053 9256650 or 087 9961251. GAA Club lotto The numbers drawn last Tuesday the second were 2, 9, 11 and 30. There was no jackpot winner. Joe Butler, Rathnure, Bridie Codd, Rathnure, Ann Lawlor, Rathnure Lower, Patsy O'Connor, Rathduff, Alan Mooney, Aughnaclappa, Rosie Carty, Forrestalstown, Brin McGrath, Ballindoney, Jenny Reddy, Mohurry, and Schalan Dreelan, Clonroche, were the nine match-three winners who each won Ä23. The jackpot this Tuesday night is Ä14,600. Camogie news Leinster League Champions - Well done to our senior girls who beat Oulart-The Ballagh in the final last Saturday, winning on a scoreline of 1-11 to 2-04. Camogie Club Meeting - This Friday, May†12, at 9†p.m.. All members welcome. Templeudigan Patron The Templeudigan Patron is on Sunday, May†28. Mass in the Cemetery at 2†p.m. Cloughbawn GAA Club lotto results: Numbers drawn were 2, 4, 6 and 31. No jackpot winner. Three match-threes: Eoin Doyle, Castleboro; Mary Foley, Coolree; Mary Walsh, Ballygalvert. Next draw in the Cloch B·n on Saturday, May†13. Jackpot now at Ä8,500. Community Games Hard luck to the under-10 soccer team which came up against tough opposition on Tuesday night last. The team of Con Fraser, Dylan Martin, Sam Kirwan, Cathal Kelly, Ollie Treacy, Cathal Ennis, Nathan Doyle and Cian Doyle played their heart out against Glynn-Barntown to receive the Co silver medals. Thanks to their mentors Linda Martin Ann Sullivan Doyle and James Murphy. The Bree-Davidstown local Athletic Finals take place on Thursday, May†11, in Bree Field at 6.30†p.m. Registration is from 5.30†p.m. All children from six to 16 from the parishes of Bree, Davidstown and Cloughbawn can take part. Best wishes to those involved in the County Talent Competition on Saturday night in Bree Hall. Plant sale Ballycullane Veggie Growers are having their annual plant sale in Ballycullane Parish Hall on Saturday, May†13, at 10†a.m. to 2†p.m. Fruit, flowers and vegetable plants will be on sale. Tea are also served. The Veggie Growers grow organic fruit and vegetables on a community plot. It you are interested in joining the group, come along any Tuesday evening at 7†p.m. or ring Anne 087 6788652 for more details. New Ross Standard 
