sport football
{  
    February 26 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/sport/other-sports/tipperary-honours-its-millennium-sports-stars-27457501.html }
By Gerry Slevin        Sport, specifically Tipperary sport, and its contribution to the Irish and international sporting scene took an honoured...   By Gerry Slevin Sport, specifically Tipperary sport, and its contribution to the Irish and international sporting scene took an honoured place last Saturday night in the Dundrum House Hotel when twelve categories were filled with distinguished people, whose achievements were lauded at a special Millennium Sports Stars banquet, organised through the three Tipperary weekly newspapers, “The Guardian”, “Tipperary Star” and “Clonmel Nationalist” and in association with Bank Of Ireland. Three award winners, Dr Pat O’Callaghan (Athletics), Jimmy Smith (Boxing) and Lena Rice (Racquet Sports) have departed this earth for some time and relatives were there to accept the honours on their behalf, Lena Rice’s grand niece,Susan Faithful travelling over from England specially for the event. The category winners were decided through the readership of the three Tipperary papers, via a coupon published over several weeks towards the latter part of the final year of the century and millennium. The event was handsomely sponsored by the Bank of Ireland, whose General Manager, Tim O’Neill was present along with the District Managers of both North and South Tipperary, David Kennedy and Gerry Reeves, respectively, as well as management and staff members from the various branches throughout the county and farther afield. David and Gerry fulfilled an important role in the expression of the various citations which they read out alternately.  AMIABLE HOST Another Bank of Ireland official, a former Tipperary footballer and 1984 Tipperary Person of the Year, Seamus McCarthy from Bansha and Manager of the Kinsale branch was a most amiable host for the evening, introducing the speakers and adding greatly to the occasion in his own inimitable way. All the award winners had their ‘fan club’ with them and the fact that though over a century of sport was remembered, nine of the award recipients are still alive, gave the evening a special flavour as many of the greats of sport like John Doyle, Sean Kelly, Tommy Wade, Babs Keating, Ger McKenna, Johnny Moroney compared notes with winners of a more modern vintage like Arthur Pierse and Ollie Cahill. Seamus McCarthy paid tribute to all who had been nominated. A quick scan of the nominees, irrespective of the sport, showed very clearly the rich, successful heritage of sporting achievement which Tipperary had managed to develop and indeed sustain. This heritage was all the more remarkable because within the sports covered, were success stories unmatched anywhere else in this country.  CONTRIBUTION CONSIDERABLE “Whether we are talking about Lena Rice claiming the ladies tennis title at Wimbledon, the exploits of Johnny Moroney on the wing for Ireland, the impressive feats of cyclist Sean Kelly who was the world’s top ranked cyclist from 1984 to 1988, Tipperary’s contribution to its own, to Ireland’s and indeed to international sports history, is considerable. It is therefore all the more fitting that we should gather here at the beginning of a new millennium and honour those who have given so much time, energy and effort over the years. We are not only honouring those who have gone before but also looking forward to new achievements in years to come”, he said. Bank of Ireland’s General Manager, Tim O’Neill prefaced his remarks with a look back to earlier in the day when Ireland’s rugby team defeated Scotland. It was a particularly pleasing victory from the bank’s viewpoint in that the Munster team, which was sponsored by Bank of Ireland was so well represented on the team with eight players lining out. What made the occasion special for him was that the award winners were present because of the votes of the people of Tipperary. There was no expert judging panel, no special criteria employed. The winners of the specially commissioned Tipperary Crystal trophies were chosen because across a wide spectrum of sports they were closest to the hearts of the people of the county.  OFFERED READERS With the 
Guardian, Tipperary Star and 
Nationalist, Bank of Ireland had offered readers the opportunity to name their outstanding sports stars. Their choices made a veritable who’s who of the county’s top sporting talent. While the majority of those listed were no longer active in their chosen sport, they were certainly not confining themselves to the past. “Tonight’s gala function is not only about reflecting on previous glories, it’s also looking forward to many more remarkable sporting achievements. It is fitting then that greats such as Olympic Gold medalist, Dr Pat O’Callaghan, boxing legend Jimmy Smith are joined on the list by stars such as Ollie Cahill currently doing well with Cork City and Ger McKenna, who is still looking for more success on the greyhound track into the 21st century. In John Doyle, we had surely one of the finest players ever to swing a hurley with no less than eight All Ireland senior medals; Michael ’Babs’ Keating, nominated for his footballing prowess though he also achieved All Ireland success in hurling. Tipperary’s contribution to the GAA and in particular to hurling is truly remarkable and with role models like John and Babs, it is little wonder this is the case”, he said. All the award winners, he added, were fully deserving of their respect because of how they dedicated themselves with enviable determination in the pursuit of sporting glory. Sports people of their calibre did much more than achieve success for themselves or their team. They conferred a measure of that success on their home town, villages and county and indeed on their country.  THE AWARD WINNERS Then followed the citations and the presentation of the awards, each recipient being loudly applauded en route to the podium. They were; JOHN DOYLE --Hurling; OLLIE CAHILL -- Soccer; TOMMY WADE -- Equestrian Sports; DR PAT O’CALLAGHAN -- Athletics, (accepted by his grand son Pat); LENA RICE -- Racquet Sports (accepted by her grand niece, Susan Faithful); MICHAEL “BABS” KEATING -- Gaelic Football; JIMMY SMITH -- Boxing (accepted by his son Jimmy); JOHNNY MORONEY (Rugby); GER McKENNA -- Greyhound Sports; SEAN KELLY -- Cycling; VINCENT O’BRIEN - Horse Racing (accepted by his grand-son James Meyerscough); and ARTHUR PIERSE -- Golf. Prior to the Vincent O’Brien presentation, a fax message received that morning was read by David Kennedy, in which the famed Ballydoyle trainer expressed his delight at being nominated and his regret at being unable to attend, because of being in Australia for the winter.  ROLE OF LOCAL PRESS On behalf of the three provincial papers, Michael Dundon, Editor 
Tipperary Star spoke of the significant role which sports coverage played in the provincial press. Because sport was such a huge community activity in Tipperary and because the papers were seen to give expression to this each week, they were very pleased to be joined with Bank of Ireland in this project. Bank of Ireland were the trend-setters in sports promotion nationally and he congratulated them on their many initiatives and on the Tipperary Millennium Sports Stars in particular. Tipperary people loved their sport and had a special place in their hearts for their sports men and women. The county had a marvellous record of achievement in many disciplines, men and women who challenged and beat, not only the best here at home but on the international stage, as the opportunity arose. “Tonight we are honouring the county’s elite in the sporting world, people who are national heroes also. There is not a county in Ireland that could surpass the quality of the stars being honoured here tonight. Our readers have been knowledgeable and informed in their nominations; our judges have responded to their challenging brief in an irreproachable manner. We congratulate them on a difficult job, Our special congratulations, however, go to the heroes honoured here tonight. You have set headlines which others have sought and still seek to emulate. The people of Tipperary are immensely proud of you; the three local papers are delighted to have played their part in according you the acclaim you deserve. In the words of the ballad “The Bold Fenian Men”, we may have great men but we’ll never have better”, Michael concluded.  ‘ A LITTLE BLESSING’ Seamus McCarthy concluded the formalities with what he described as ‘a little blessing’. “So God’s blessing be on you Tipperary May your joys be many, your ills be few May you ever thrive and prosper, Tipperary And your sons and daughters prove staunch and true” 
