sport football
{  
    September 04 2009 10:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/temp/grass-roots-27707620.html }
SARSFIELDS: A big congratulations to the Under-10 squad and their mentors, Paul Harrington, Damien Dempsey and Kieran Carroll, who brought the first piece of silverware of the year to the club last week when they beat Shelmaliers by 1-3 to 0-3 to claim the Kent Stainless Wexford District Division 1 Shield title. Team: Adam Dempsey; Darragh Reville, Seán Banville, Aaron Smith; Conal Clancy, Cathal Kirwan, Ben Creane; Shane Hall (capt., 0-1), Mikey Carroll; Andrew Harrington (0-1), Ben Butler, Ryan Dempsey (0-1); Ryan Furlong, Jake Clancy, Cian Foley (1-0). Subs. - Adam Butler, Cathal Newport, Gary Carroll, Kealan McCormack, Garbhan McCormack, Lee Donohoe, Seán Kelly, Conor Kehoe, Jack Finucane, Killian Gahan, Alex Innes. Missing: Conal Crowley, Rory Maxwell. Well done also to the Seniors who eased any relegation worries with a 2-9 to 0-11 win over Gusserane in the ‘B’ quarter-final in Grantstown on Friday last. They will face Duffry Rovers in the semi-final under lights in St. Patrick’s Park, Enniscorthy, on Friday, September 18. The Minors will play St. James’ in the Division 3 championship semi-final in Mersheen on Saturday, September 12, at 12.30 p.m. The ever-popular Brendan Redmond Memorial Under-10 tournament starts on Sunday next, September 6, with the fixtures as follows: Brendan Redmond tournament - Group 1: Glynn-Barntown v. Shelmaliers (Volunteers pitch, 11.30 a.m.); Sarsfields v. Gusserane (Sarsfields pitch, 10.30 a.m.). Group 2: St. Anne’s v. Starlights (Harriers pitch, 10.30 a.m.); St. Martin’s v. Taghmon-Camross (Harriers pitch, 11.30 a.m.). Centenary Cup - Group 1: Kilmore v. Volunteers (Volunteers pitch, 10.30 a.m.); Clonard v. Crossabeg-Ballymurn (11.30 a.m.). Group 2: Glynn-Barntown B v. Oylegate-Glenbrien (St. Mary’s pitch, 11.30 a.m.); Sarsfields B v. St. Mary’s, Maudlintown (Sarsfields pitch, 11.30 a.m.). The fun day on Sunday last was a tremendous success despite the weather, with the young and not so young all having a great time. Thanks to everyone who helped out, with a special word for Therese Murphy and Ballytramon Equestrian Riding School for providing the ponies which proved very popular. All of the latest club news can be checked out on www.sarsfields.leinstergaa.com. CLONARD Our training still continues for U-8’s every Tue 7-8, U-10’s every Wed and Fri 7-8, U12’s and 14’s every Tue and Thur 7-8.30 and Sun mornings 11-12.30. From Sun 23rd August we are starting an U-13 and U15 hurling league within the club please come along and join in From Sun 23rd August we are starting an U-13 and U15 hurling league within the club please come along and join in from 11-12.30. Our u16s footballers are in the county final against Ferns in Bunclody on saturday19th august . Clonard Ladies Football Club had a very exciting week last week with the Junior B team securing a place in the semi final of the Championship and the u12 girls winning their semi final on Sunday in Horeswood. The Junior team played at home against Rathouge/Cuishinstown on Friday night last, Clonard were on top of this team from the kickoff and were determined to secure a place in the Semi final. The teamwork was evident on the night and the girls done everything asked of them , Captain Diane Leinston showed her teammates a great display of skill which led to some lovely scores. The final score was Clonard 2-13 Cuishinstown 2-1. Well done girls 100% attendance at training is a must to continue our successful year. The U12 girls travelled down to Horeswood on Sunday to secure their place in the final in Wexford Park next Sunday.. The girls played in the rain however, this did not deter them and each girl gave 100% commitment to the team. The half time score was Clonard 1-4 Horeswood 3-1 the Clonard girls had a lot of ground to cover in the second half to catch up on their scores. The Clonard girls came out more determined in the second half and proved that they were the better team on the day, these girls also came out on top of the league table. We need all our supporters in Wexford Park next Sunday to encourage and cheer the girls on. Well done to all the mentors involved with the girls your hard work is much appreciated. BANNOW This weeks snowball is 500euro. Its all go for the Bannow/Ballymitty club at the moment.From underage to senior level most of the teams are in either quarter finals and semi finals.Well done to all involved. This coming Saturday sees the u14 camogie girls in their semi final.This match takes place on this Saturday  at 11 o clock in Cushingstown.Their opponents will be either Castletown or Craanford.Thanks to Sadie,Eileen,Breda and Davy for all their hard work in getting to this stage of the games.. Last night the U18 hurlers played their semi final in grandstown .They played Ballyhogue full details next week. On Sunday last the Senior footballers played Ballyhogue in New Ross in the quarter finals of the Championship.This was a very close match .It was only a point divided both teams and we came out the winning team.Heartly congratulations to the panal,players and mentors.This puts Bannow/Ballymitty in the county semi finals the first time in 60 odd years we are told.Well done to all involved. Also on Sunday last the Junior Ladies camogie played in Grandstown . The girls won there seemed to be no contest.The final score Bannow/Ballymitty 12 -16 St.Ibars no  score.Its a pity that both games were on the same time as every one likes to support the Ladies and the Men of the club.Well done to the girls and their mentors. Tonight the U14 Boys play in Grandstown in their quarter final . The play Kilrush at 6.45.Please come along and support the under age of the club..Good luck to all involved,players and mentors. SHELS All roads lead to Hollymount on the 26th September for a Shelmalier Monster Autumn Barbeque in the GAA Complex. What promises to be a great night for the entire parish, will have live music followed by a Disco till late with delicious food served from 9 to 10-30pm. There is a full bar extension and tickets costing €15 each are now available and will be sold in the parish in the coming week, we ask you to give it your full support. All shelmalier club members who are interested in all Ireland hurling tickets please leave your name with club secretary Peggie Kelly by Thursday evening 3rd Sept at latest for the draw. Our senior footballers beat Kilanerin (holders) in Wexford Park on Sunday and are now in the Co. Semi final on Sept 20th, with the subsequent final fixed for Oct 4th. In wet and windy conditions, we fought hard and the game was level after full time. We were unlucky to lose Cathal Gaule and Ciaran O’Shaughnessy to ham strings. In extra time, the supreme fitness of Shels showed through and we finished 3 points clear 0-13 to 0-10. The entire team played their hearts out but special mention to Andre O’Brien, David Walsh and Brian Malone (C) in defence who kept Kilanerin’s key men quiet along with Brian Doyle and Derek Walsh who were outstanding in attack. Our 3rd Football team suffered a defeat at the hands of St. Anne’s 2nd team recently. Numbers were very short for this game, leaving the Shels with only 14 players. The lads battled hard but were unable to make much inroads against St Annes. Best for the Shels were Graham Malone, Donal Power and Padraig Scully Shelmaliers 3rd Football team received a walkover from Sarsfields this week in the relegation final so they look forward to playing in Junior C again next year. They also got promoted in the league this year. Well done lads. Several shelmalier players were on county duty last weekend. In the Tony Forrestal tournament, Kevin O’Connor, was our sole representative after James Cash, got injured. In the Arrabawn tournament Craig McCabe, played with the A group whilst Conor Tobin and Shane Birney played in the B section of this high profile tournament. 5 Shels minors were selected to travel to Cork with the Co. U17 team, James Gordon, Shane Griffith, Feargal Hynes, Aidan Cash and Stephen Corrigan. James and Aidan were unable to travel due to senior football commitments. Despite no silverware being won, all Shels players gave a great account of themselves. ST. ANNE ‘S Congratulations to the senior footballers who beat Castletown on a scoreline of 7 points to 6 in the county quarter-final in Wexford Park on Sunday. Thanks to a workman-like display in bad conditions where they showed greater hunger they now advance to a county semi-final in a few weeks time. Congratulations are aslo due to the U21 footballers who beat Kilmore in the Wexford district final on Monday last in rathangan, this is the second year in a row to win the title, they now advance to a county semi-final where they will face either Duffry Rovers or Ballyhogue in Taghmon on Monday the 7th of september at 6:30pm, it would be great if as many supporters as possible attended to get behind the boys. ROSSLARE DRAW FOR THE 24th AUGUST There were 0 winner this week, The numbers were,8,10,15,22 Bonus 39, We had 0 match winner.Next weeks Jackpot is €20,000 Results: Junior Hurling District Semi-Final:St Mary’s 1-05 v’s St Martin’s 2-11 U-10 Hurling League Final:St Mary’s 5-00 v’s Kilmore 0-00 U-12 Hurling Co. Semi-Final:St Mary’s 0-07 v’s Liam Mellows 6-07 Intermediate F’ball Co. 1Ú4 Final:St Mary’s 1-13 v’s St James 0-09 Fixtures: Intermediate ‘B’ C’ship:St Mary’s v’s Ballyfad – Saturday 5th September @ 2pm in St Patrick’s Park Junior Hurling C’ship: Our Junior Hurlers were beaten in the District Semi-Final last Wednesday evening against St Martin’s in Piercestown. Despite a brave effort we came up short on the evening on a score line of 1-05 to 2-11. Intermediate Football C’ship: Our intermediate footballers had a fantastic victory over St James in the County Quarter Final last Saturday evening in Wexford Park. Playing with the elements in the first half we had built up a healthy lead. In the second half we matched our opponents in every aspect of the game. Overall we played a lot of quality football and in the process knocked out the possible favourites to win the county title. This was a real team effort built on hard work and endeavour. The draw for the County Semi-Final will be made this week. U-12 County Semi Final: Our u-12 hurlers were well beaten by Liam Mellows last Sunday morning in Coolgreaney, in the Co. Semi-Final. We can have no excuses as the better team on the day won. We were not physically able for Liam Mellows and with nearly all their panel of players up to the age of 12 years it was always going to be an uphill battle. Regardless of this result, all the boys have been fantastic all year and have certainly done themselves and the club proud. Such an experience this year will stand to the lads in years to come. County Hurling: Well done to Jordan Broaders who was part of the Wexford U-15 Hurling Panel which competed and won the shield final of the Michael Foley tournament last weekend in Piercestown. This is the main hurling tournament for our County U-15 Hurlers. Jordan starred at wing forward on the day. Well done also to Aaron Kavanagh who was part of the Wexford U-17 Hurling Panel which competed last weekend in a tournament in Cork. Again this tournament is the main competition for our County U-17 Hurlers. Unfortunately Wexford did not qualify for the knockout stages. Reports from Cork suggested that the standard of hurling was to an extremely high level. U-8 Hurling League: Our U-8 hurlers competed in the finals of their league last Saturday morning. The finals were run on a blitz format with the main focus being on having fun and playing hurling – not on results. After an enjoyable day where we competed in 4 games, all players were presented with medals and also indulged in crisps and dr Glynn Barntown Club Notes 31 Aug 2009 For the second time in a week Michael O’Regan scored a goal just as full time elapsed to ensure we continued in u21 and intermediate football competitions. On Monday week last as the premier u21 semi final entered injury time Michael finished calmly to the net to equalise against Ballinastragh Gaels. Good work by Sean Fortune set up a game winning free from Mark Fanning in injury time. On Saturday Michael slammed a late opportunity to the net to force injury time where our lads fitness and sheer determination saw them eventually pull clear of St. Fintans. A late Philip Walsh Goal deep into extra time perhaps putting a bit of extra gloss on the score. Next day the lads know they can not leave themselves such mountains to climb. We recovered from 6 down in the second half in the u21 and remarkably we were 10 down against the Fintans with less than 20 minutes left. Super stuff on both days and congratulations to all concerned. The u21 final was scheduled for Monday last check www.glynnbarntown.wexford.gaa.ie if you don’t know the outcome. Our u16 camogie team just came up short against Rathnure in the Div 1 county semi final. A game that was in the balance right up to full time and one with a bit more luck in front of goal we could have won. However, to be competitive at this grade having won u18 is very encouraging for the future. A special word for Siobhain O’Regan who had to leave the field early in the game to be sick but returned within a couple of minutes to put in quite simply an inspiring and flawless display at full back. As of last Monday as a club we were still involved in some 8 competitions – u21 football, intermediate football, senior hurling, u16 hurling semi final and semi finals in both codes at u14 and u18. While in camogie we are still going in Senior b, u14 league semi and junior. Lets hope we can achieve some more silverware before the year is out. CROSSABEG There was no winner of last week’s lotto jackpot and two match three winners, Mary Jackman, Ballymurn and the Foley family, Aughanure. The numbers drawn were 1, 4, 13 and 21. This week’s jackpot is €3400. Hard luck to the U16 footballers who lost to St. Martins, in the County semi final, last week. They put up a spirited effort and were unlucky to be narrowly beaten after extra time. Hard luck also, to the U12 hurlers who lost their semi final to Cloughbawn on Saturday. They too put in a great effort, going down by 4 points in the end. Well done to both panels and their mentors for their efforts during the year. The U12 footballers lost to Gusserane in the last match of the league but are in the semi finals. The Minor hurlers played Shamrocks away in the County Semi final on Tue the 1st. Best of luck to U16 hurlers in the semi final against Geraldine O’Hanrahans on Saturday (5th) at 11.00am in Ballymurn and the U14 footballers versus Glynn also in the semi final at home on Monday (7th). The U10 hurlers played in Wexford Park against the Shamrocks on the final day of the Pat Neville Tournament. The U10 Footballers play Clonard in the first round of the Sarsfield Tournament in Pairc Charman at 10.30am on Sun 6th. The U8 hurlers had a great day at the Finals of the Jack Berry Tournament last Saturday. The U8s and U10s train in the pitch on Tuesday evenings from 6.30pm to 7.30pm. Club shop open at the rear of the dressing rooms, on Tuesdays from 6.15pm to 7.30pm. St Martin’s Club Notes 1. U12 girl’s football. Our u12 girl’s football team have played their way into the Co Final after they beat Kilmore last Wednesday night in a closely contested game requiring extra time to divide the sides. This was a tremendous team performance with each of the girls acquitting themselves extremely well. The panel on the night was Stephanie Murphy, Lorna Murphy, Lauren Carty, Hannah Frankis, Lauren Kavanagh, Rachel Kehoe, Sarah O’Connor, Eimear Doherty, Amy Cardiff, Laura Doyle, Mary Carroll, Amy Rochford, Kim Hogan, Aine Ennis, Sarah Berney, Jackilynn Breslin, Chloe Roche, Bronagh Whitty, Grainne Shirley, Emma Codd, Emily Culleton, Rachel Kelly, Katie Lawlor, Aoife O’Keeffe, Mary Barrett, Philippa Breslin, Jodi Rochford and Mary Ellen Sugden. The final is fixed for Wexford Park on Sunday 6th Sept at 1.45pm. Please come and support! 2 U 14 girl’s football. Our U14 girls football team have it all to do again as they play Taghmon in the semi final replay in Taghmon this evening at 6.45pm. The drawn game last Tuesday in Piercestown was a very tight competitive game with both teams finishing on a score of 2-6 apiece. A huge effort will be required by everyone if they are to progress to the final. The girls would appreciate your support so come along and view what promises to be an exciting game of football. 3. Under 12 Boys Hurling have qualified for the County Final having beaten Taghmon 2 - 6 to 1 - 6 last week in Taghmon. The Final to be played on Saturday next check Fixtures in today’s paper 4. Boys Under 16 Football Team have qualified for the County Final having beaten Crossabeg Ballymurn last week in the County Semi Final 5. The Senior Footballers were beaten by Duffry Rovers last Friday night in the Senior Football Relegation Semi Final. 6. Senior Camogie County Semi Final versus Rathnure Saturday evening 5th September in Piercestown see Fixtures for time 7. Intermediate Camogie versus Gorey on Friday next 4th September see Fixtures for time 8. Club Shop - Open Wednesday evening 6.30pm to 7.15pm and Sunday from 10.45 to 11.45am Faythe Harriers Weekly Notes 31-08-2009 60th Anniversary Re-Union: This year the Faythe Harriers Hurling & Camogie Club celebrates our 60th Anniversary since our foundation in 1949. To celebrate this event, we will be having a weekend of celebrations over the first weekend in October. On Friday 2nd October, the club will hold a mass in Bride Street Church at 7 pm to honour all deceased members of the club. This will be followed by a social evening at Wexford Golf Club, including music and light refreshments. All member of the club are invited to this function. The main event of our celebrations will be our Gala 60th Anniversary Re-Union in The Talbot Hotel on Saturday 3rd October. Guests of honours on the night will be the Faythe Harriers senior hurling & football double winning team of 1960. Music will be provided by the excellent “Some Like It Hot” and tickets are available at €35 each. The event will also be attended by An t-Uachtarain Cumann Luthchleas Gael, Mr Christy Cooney. Get your tickets early for this event, as a large crowd are sure to attend. Adult Championships: Our Senior team are back in action on Sunday 13th September, when we face Marshalstown in the quarterfinal of the Senior B competition. First and foremost, we must try and secure a win in this game to guarantee our Senior status for 2010. After our victory in our last group game versus Cloughbawn, hopes will be high that we can make a good start in the B championship. If we win this game, we move on to the semi finals of the B championship, if we were to lose the game, then we would have to face into relegation semi finals. Our Junior team are also in championship action next week. We are due to play Monagear in the B section of the Junior championship. The fixture on the game has been changed and at the time of writing, it appears that it may take place midweek on Tuesday 8th, Wednesday 9th or Thursday 10th September. Please check with selectors or with local press for exact details. All Ireland Sevens: On Saturday 5th September, we will represent Wexford at the Kilmacud Crokes All Ireland 7-a-side competition in Dublin. We have taken part in this competition on numerous occasions in the past and hope once again to give a good account of ourselves this time around. It is an excellent competition with some of the top clubs and some of the top players from around the country involved and the standards are always very high. Coiste na n-Og: The coming week is an extremely important week for the club in terms of upcoming fixtures. Our minors are due to play Oulart on Tuesday night in Parc Carman at 6.45 pm in a winner-takes-all game, with the winners moving on to the Division 1 semi finals and the losers being out of the competition. On Saturday next, our Juvenile team play Naomh Eanna of Gorey in the Division 1 Juvenile county semi final, in a repeat of the Under 14 county final of 2007. Both semi finals will take place in Parc Carman, check local press for details. These lads have worked very hard during the year and it would be a major boost for the club if we were to reach this final. The Under 14s are also in county semi final action and will play Fethard in Parc Carman on Saturday 12th September in the Division 3 county semi final. Congrats: Congrats to Rhys Clarke, Jason O’Dowd, Ben O’Brien, Colm Heffernan and John Bridges who all assisted Wexford underage teams in various competitions over the weekend. Realt Na Mara GAA News Balygarrett Girls played away to Clonee in second round of minor championship on 10th August at 7.30p.m. Ballygarrett dominated the game and came away with a well deserved victory of 5-10 to 1-8 to Ballygarrett. Panel: Aideen Egan, Niamh Redmond, Aisling Doyle (0-2), Martha Gahan, Laura Donnelly, Roisin Murphy (0-1), Karen Tomkins, Sandra Lawlor (0-1), Aoife Kavangh (0-2), Grace Kavanagh (1-0) Laura Warren, Eimear Prendergast (1-1), Clodagh Graham, Latoya Byrne (3-1) Becky Hayden (0-1) Subs: Catriona Graham, Lorraine Gahan, Niamh Mc Manus, Aine Mc Manus ,Shauna Warren (0-1), Sophie Donnelly. Ballygarrett Played away to bunclody on 22th August at 9.15a.m.Ballygarrett Girls got off to a good start with a point after 2 mins & from here on dominated the first half with a score line of 1-7 to 1-0 to Ballygarrett at Half time. Bunclody started the second half strong and looked like they where going to fight back. But ballygarrett held out and took their scores and came out winners 3-13 to 2-1. Panel: Aisling Doyle, Niamh Redmond,Catriona Graham, Martha Gahan, Laura Donnelly,Roisin Murphy (1-2), Karen Tomkins (1-2) Sandra Lawlor (0-3) Aoife Kavanagh (0-1) Grace Kavanagh ( 0-1), Laura Warren (0-3) Eimear Prendergast, Becky Hayden, Latoya Byrne (1-0) Sophie Donnelly. Subs: Clodagh Graham (0-1) , Lorraine Gahan, Shauna Warren. The Minor Girls have now reached Conty Semi - Final to be played at home on a date to be confirmed. Best Of Look to the Girls. Good luck to our U-14 boys who are through to the Semi -Final in football match next Staurday in Horeswood. Hard Luck to our U-16 girls who lost in their Semi - Final on Monday 17th in Kilmore . Well done to our under 10’s for winning their division of the Kent Steel Football. Congratulations to our U-12 girls who fought a hard battle on Thursday night last beating Gusserane by 3 points in the semi-final. Good luck to the girls in the county final on Saturday next. MONAGEER Despite the season nearing a close there is still high activity at most levels within the club as we near the business end of the season. First off last Sunday the under sixteen camogie girls played in the county final. Many congratulations to them on winning a hard fought contest. Played in Farmleigh against Cloughbawn our young ladies went in at half time leading by a scoreline of 2-2 to 2-1. It wasnt until the closing ten minutes that Monageer Boolavogue put some distance in the scoreline and pulled out a nine point winning margain with some late cracking goals. For the record the final score was 4-4 to 2-1, Captain Niamh Roche was presented with the trophy. Team was. Amy Walsh, Mary Gahan, Niamh Gahan, Saoirse Egan, Orla Redmond, Noleen Gahan, Eimear McCabe, Emma Gahan, Eimear Kehoe, Mary Sinnott, Amy Stokes, Michelle Gahan, Cait Sinnott , Claire Kane Roisin Kehoe, Niamh Roche, Roisin Fenlon, Sarah Sweeney, Kelly Bolger, Eimear Gahan, Siobhan Donohoe and Michelle Donohoe. Our junior footballers did us proud on Saturday evening as well qualifing for the Junior county football final with a good win over Davidstown Courtnacuddy. Going in a couple of points down at the break we put in a fine second half performance to win by 3-8 to 1-4 actually holding the opposition to two scores in the second half. Good performances on the day from Liam O’Loughlin and Conal Nolan. This weekend saw no less than six of our underage players on Inter county duty. First up were Padraig Flynn and Graham O’Reilly who played in the Tony Forrestal cup for under fourteen hurling played in Waterford. Next off was Sean Mernagh and Brian Dwyer who took part in the Michael Foley competition played in Piercestown. Wexford went on to win the sheild in this competition. The Arabawn tourament is the under sixteen all Ireland trophy for under sixteen and is played in Tipperary. Sean Murphy and Peter Meneragh both particapated in this competition with wexford unlucky to out in the sheild semi final. There was no winner of last weeks lotto for a jackpot of 1900 euro. Numbers drawn were 10, 19, 23, and 25. Jean Mernagh was the sole winner of the match three. Our under twelve footballers beat ferns in the last round of the football league and this win will see them through to the quarter or semi final depending on the draw. Good performances from Ian Hawkins, James Squance and Shay Gahan. The ladies Junior football team were unlucky to go down by 5 points in the County football semi final to St James last week while our under ten hurlers had the honour of playing Wexford park in the last day of the Pat Neville Go Games Tournament. They beat St Patricks in the final. The tens will play tonight in Farmleigh in the Kent Stainless Steel Final against Marshallstown. Best of luck to the juvenile footballers and minor hurlers who play this week in the semi finals of their respective competitions. The minors will play tonight Wedensday in Monamolin. Buffers Alley All-Ireland 125 GAA Quiz with Jimmy Magee The All-Ireland 125 Quiz with Jimmy Magee, organised by the GAA Museum was held in Croke Park on Friday night last 28th August. This individual quiz, with the proceeds being donated to the charity CARI, was well represented by Wexford on the night – Tony Doran, Aidan Kinsella and Willie Kinsella from the Buffers Alley area, Paddy Wickham, Davidstown-Courtnacuddy and John Redmond, from The Harrow. Jack Hall of Buffers Alley and Michael Furlong (Rapparees) also participated in the Quiz but not in the competitive section. Upwards of 90 contestants were tested on their GAA knowledge and after a tightly fought contest four Wexford men have advanced to the All-Ireland on Friday, 18th September). A great night was had by all where the Kildare band “The Isotobes” provided the entertainment following the Quiz. Tony Doran, Willie Kinsella and Aidan Kinsella from Buffers Alley will join John Redmond from the Harrow in addition to the four finalists from other parts of the country. The Final Night will take place in the GAA Museum where the eight finalists will go “Head to “Head” until the ultimate GAA Quiz Champion is crowned!. The champion will win the following, All Ireland Quiz Champion Trophy,All Ireland Football Final Tickets, Dinner & a night’s accommodation in the Croke Park Hotel Appear on RTE’s The Sunday Game. Under 8 Tournament Well done to the under 8 boys from Buffers Alley who participated in the Bill Cullen Annual Under 8 Hurling Tournament organised by Naomh Éanna on Saturday last. They joined teams from Craobh Chiarán Dublin, Oulart-the-Ballagh, Rapparees, Arkow Rocks, St. Patrick’s, Ferns-St. Aidan’s, Kilmacud Crokes DublinMount Sion. Waterford, Naas, Kildare Camross, Laois Naomh Éanna, Glynn-Barntown, Buffers Alley, Éire Óg Kildare, St. Enda’s, Gorey, Clara, Kilkenny, Craaanford,. In the Group 2 they were joined by teams from Naomh Éanna, Glynn-Barntown, Mount Leinster Rangers, and Éire Óg Kildare. The boys did very well in their group games and finished level in 2nd place but because of score averages they there placed 3rd and then played in the Seán Gleeson Cup final overcoming the Rapparees in the semi-final on a score line of 2-1 to 1-0 but unfortunately losing out to Naas on a narrow scoreline of 2-0 to 1-0 in the final. The following represented Buffers Alley on the day – Cathal Gahan, Adam Byrne, Liam Walsh, Owen McNulty, Jack Murphy, Kevin Byrne, Dave Meleady, Myles O’Connor, Jack Hearne, Cormac Walsh, Ben Murphy, Jack Whelan, Richard Devereaux, Ciarán Hearne, Edward Harney, James Reilly, Jack Redmond, Adam Doyle, Eoin O’Meara, David Hearne, Cian O’Connor. Team Mentors are: Willie Walsh, Richard Devereux, Colm Hearne and Tom Ó’Connor Club Development Draw The August Club Development Draw was held on Tuesday night last and the following were the lucky prizewinners: €400: Larry Fortune, Ballinastraw (Seller: Joe Hughes) €100: Tom Lawless, Monamolin (Seller: Tom Lawless), €50: Jim Hobbs, Killena (Seller: Tony Doran), €50: Anne Kennedy, Court (Seller: Jimmy Kennedy), €50: Joe Doyle c/o Faythe Harriers (Seller: Seán Whelan). The next draw will take place on Tuesday 29th September in the clubhouse. Coise na nÓg news Tonight, Wednesday 2nd September the minor hurlers will play the County Semi-Final versusMonageer-Boolavogue in Monamolin at 6.45 and good support will be appreciated for this crunch game. On Sunday morning 13th September the U14 boys will contest their semi-final versus Adamstown in Monamolin at 11 am. Hurling Championship The senior hurlers are out in action again on Sunday 13th September when they play Ferns-St. Aidan’s in Wexford Pak at 3.30 in the quarter-final of the Pettitts Hurling Championship. The previous day the junior hurlers will play Bannow-Ballymitty in St. Patrick’s Park also at 3.30 pm. Shamrocks Club Notes 30-08-09 St. Senan’s Sports Lotto results: No Winner. 2 match 3’s. Winning numbers were 8,11,15,27. Well done to the Minor footballers who qualified for the County Semi -Final by beating OLI/ St Fintans. Both our Adult hurling teams will be out next Weekend. The Junior C team play Blackwater in Monageer On Friday at 6.30. A vital game for both clubs as the loser will end up in the relegation final. On Saturday the Intermediates play Liam Mellows in the county quarter final at 3.30 Páirc Uí Shíocháin Gorey. This is a repeat of last years tie but hopefully the Shamrocks can gain revenge over last years defeat. Best of Luck to ourU10 footballers who play Davidstown in Farmleigh tonight (Wed 2nd). Best of Luck to our U16 hurlers who play Oylegate in the Co. Semi-Final on Sat 5th at 11am in Coolree. Best of Luck to ourU14 footballers who play St.Pat’s in the Co.Semi-Final on Mon 7th 6:45pm in Camolin. WEXFORD GAA STRATEGIC REVIEW 2009 - 2015 Six separate groups are currently examining all existing structures with a view to changing the structures that aren’t working and introducing new structures to improve and strengthen the GAA county wide. To assist these groups in their work, and with the hands on assistance of Croke Park, a Club Forum is being organised for September 28th. Any Club member who would be interested in attending this forum should contact any committee member. The Club and committee would like to congratulate Caroline and Brendan O’ Rourke on the arrival of their new baby boy. HWH Our under 12s played Realt na meara last Tuesday in church road and won on a score line of 7-11 to 2 -3. Team: diarmuid creane, darren murphy...captain, michael o connor, josh martin, laurence dunne, john dunne, martin o connor, eoin kelly,neil cullen tobin, conor thorpe, brendan kavanagh, anthony roche, brian watchorn,james fitzgerald. subs:tomek bialko, adam saddler, jamie dunne, niall hudson, adam daly, eamonn kennedy, bobby mckeown, shane mccarthy, leigh conroy, jordan hall, christopher o brien The support we had on the sideline was fantistic for a home game  and thanks to all concerned for attending an enjoyable game. The under 12s now play Castletown in a playoff for a semi final spot in Bunclody on Thursday niht at 7:30 your support woul be greatly appreciated. Our under 10 footballers played Glynn Barntown in the Under 10 Kent Steel A Final in Ballyhogue on Friday last where they defeated their opposition on a 5-06 to 3-05 scoreline Team was J Kavanagh, Adam Hogan, Edward Dunbar, Stephen Kavanagh, Byron Doyle, Eddie Black, Mylie Connors, John Mc Cormack, Tadgh Kelly, Gerry Connors Thomas, Tobin Edward Dunbar Wilson, Robert Weston and Andy Cash. Congratulations to them and all the best in the future.       There was no winner of the clubs Lotto draw last Monday for a jackpot of €20,000 Numbers were 7,13,19,21. There was 16 Match 3 winners. Next draw in Murphys Half Way House on Monday 7th of August for a jackpot of € 20,000 Rapparees/Starlights Clubnotes 31st Aug 09: With our Club players involved in both the Tony Forristal Cup and the Michael Foley U/15 Tournament we were expecting some curtailment in activity at club level last week. Au contaire! Our U/12s contested the county semi final on Thursday evening last against Naomh Eanna in Gorey and lost to them 2.7 to 2.2. On the same evening our Junior Ladies Football team were beaten by Clonee in the quarter final of their championship and could I take this opportunity to say a very special thank you to Manager Benny Mythen who has put in a tremendous effort this season with Ladies football. Our Senior Footballers saved faced and saved themselves from relegation winning their first game in the B Championship on Friday evening in Cushinstown 4.11 to 2.7. A second comprehensive performance from the Starlights making one wonder about the system that caused them to exit from the championship proper! Our U/8s performed well to end up in the semi final of the Gorey U/8 Hurling Tournament on Saturday.Our U12s travelled to Dublin on sat morning to take part in a Co. Dublin blitz. This was a true test of character considering their recent run of bad luck in losing both semi finals by narrow margins.. With just 14 players ,our first game was against Barrow rangers from Killkenny and after a slow start and some warward shooting we settled down with a point from midfielder Tommy murphy. This was soon followed by a brace of points fom Caolan Carty. A goal soon followed when Murphy turned provider for Diarmuid Byrne to hit the back of the net. In the second half some strong defending by Nick Doyle, Dale Kirwan and Robbie O Neill kept the scoreline in our favour. A good supply of balls to our forwards kept the scores coming and we went on to win easily. In our second game we were matched against South Fingalians, a big strong physical team. With plenty of balls being supplied from midfield duo Carty and Murphy we were slow to convert. The first goal coming in the twelfth minute from a pacey Peter O Connor. The scores then came fast and furious with a brace of points from Carty and one from Jamie Curtis. This was followed by 2 clever goals from Byrne and secured our second win. The final game was against our hosts Na Finna. Both teams were evenly matched in the first ten minutes, the opening score coming from a long range point by Carty. This was quickly followed by a fine point from Curtis with Barry Doyle also gettin in on the act. We were now in command of the game with Murphy and Dale Kirwan dominating the puck outs. A strong supply of balls to our forwards saw Micheal Wall, Ryan Murphy and Byrne converting more scores. In the second half 2 goals from Murphy, 1-3 from Carty and a goal from Byrne the blitz was in the bag. A brillant team effort and after 3 hard games. 120 min of hurling was completed within 3 hours. The disipline of the team would do the club proud. A very enjoyable day with medals to remember. The team mentors and parents were very well catered for, Many thanks. To finish off a trip to Macdonalds complements of our own club was well deserved. Many thanks to the club for this treat and to the five parents who provided transport on the day. Congrats to the Rapparees players who gave a very good account of themselves in the Tony Forristal Cup on Saturday in Mount Sion - Kevin Foley/Aaron Sinnott/Darragh Pepper and Colin Nolan - helping Wexford beat Kilkenny 1.8 to 8 points and Dublin 4.12 to 2.3 and were unfortunate to be beaten by Waterford in the semi final by 3 points after some very strange hometown decisions by the referee.Well done lads you did your county and your club proud and proved that you can compete with the very best thats out there. Congrats also to our U/15s who represented the county in the Michael Foley U/15 Hurling tournament in Piercestown and Taghmon on Saturday - Timmy Dwyer/Kevin Ryan and Seanie O`Gorman helped Wexford to win the Shield Tournament. This week our U/16 hurlers play their semi final in Wexford Park on Saturday morning at 11am and our Junior hurlers take on Ferns in Ferns on Friday night 4th Sept at 7pm and our Senior Hurlers are participating in the All Ireland Sevens on Saturday also in Kilmacud Crokes - our U/14 footballers play Taghmon on Tuesday 8th Sept in the County Final and I would like to say good luck to all the teams from all at Bellefield. On the Social front a very happy birthday to a popular lady Marie Murphy who celebrated the occasion with large numbers of family and friends in the Clubhouse on Friday night last. Line Dancing Classes commenced in the clubhouse on Thursday night last and continue every Thursday night from 8-11. All are welcome. Art Classes are beginning on Monday 7th Sept 7.30-9.30pm and Tuesday 8th and Friday 11th 10am -12. To book your place phone Ann at 086/399411. Our next Underage disco will take place on Friday 18th sept - watch this space for more details. On Sunday 6th Sept we will be celebrating All Ireland Day in the Complex from 12oc onwards with special All Ireland prices/ food to order/ and kids party/disco for all your little treasurers - one not to be missed. Dont forget anyone seeking All Ireland tickets - raffle taking place in the Clubhouse on Thursday 3rd Sept at 9.30 ........at EUR5 a line this is well worth the gamble - lines can be purchased at the clubhouse or from Maria Nolan or Tom Boland. Our Senior footballers played their county quarter final against St. Anne’s in Wexford Park last Sunday afternoon ended up on the losing side by a solitary point.Despite the poor weather, this all round team effort were unable to convert a no. of goal chances to win out this tight game against St. Anne’s. Our intermediate hurler are through to county intermediate hurling quarter final against Shamrocks next Saturday at 3.30pm with the venue unclear at the time of writing. Our under 12 boys had their county semifinal in hurling on Sunday morning last in Coolgreany and won handsomely on a scoreline of 7-7 to 0-7 over Rosslare. Young paul boyle was a handful at full forward bagging five goals. All the training by Mick and Pat is paying dividends. Let us hope that these great bunch of boys will be as successful in the last football match and probable football semi-final. Our 300-1 members draw was on last Sunday night in Toss Byrne’s, Inch and the winners were Michael Kavanagh,Scarnagh 500 euro; Davy Doyle ,The Hollow, Tomnahely 400 euro and Patricia Fenlon, Clonough 400 euro. Our under 10 boys play their final tonight (Wednesday Sept. 2) against Naomh Éanna in Gorey. Under 6 and 8 training was cancelled tonight (this Wednesday only) and we are encouraging the under 6’s and 8’s and their parents to support the under 10 boys at tonight’s final. Thanks to all who helped with the under 8 hurling and football blitz on Saturday last morning in Coolgreany. It is great to see all hands on deck helping and most importantly that the kids played and enjoyed themselves.Thanks to Ballygarret Realta na Mara and Arklow Gearldines for coming along on the day. Training for under 6’s and 8’s boys is on Saturday in Tomnahely from 11am and in Coolgreany on Wednesdays from 6.30pm for September. Those wishing to order club gear should contact Sinead Leonard at 087 2251698. At the adult and underage AGMs last December and January, it was agreed by all that team mentors and club officers contact Club PRO by phone, text or email with match reports, training details,items of interest and next matches/fixtures each Sunday night before 9pm. 
