sport football
{ Aidan O'Hara 
    September 29 2008 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/soccer/facing-up-to-reality-of-life-on-scrapheap-26480570.html }
THERE'S an old joke that asks what do you call Postman Pat if he loses his job? Answer: Pat. So what do you call a professional footballer without a club? Answer: unemployed. As the nip returns to the evening air and the phrase "a grand aul stretch in the evenings" is banished for about nine months, this is not a good time to be a player looking for a club. Like most economies, the football scene is a buyer's market and its dole office is a hard place to escape. Take a number and hope for the best when the window opens. "Former international sir? "Don't call us, we'll call your agent" "Scored a goal in a World Cup Finals?" "Go sit over there next to that slightly overweight man who has 50 caps for his country." "Played in the youth team at Manchester United?" "I'm sorry but we seem to be full of them." With the transfer window shut, many free agents are "invited to train" with clubs who can still sign them -- albeit very much on the club's terms. Ignominy For those who have cruised through their professional career playing one club off against another in order to get a move or a pay rise, the ignominy of going cap in hand down the leagues is a chastening experience. Around this time of year, some just give up. When these players announce their retirement, the reaction is normally not to lament their decision, but to wonder why you thought they were retired already. There are few professions when the adage of "out of sight, out of mind" is as brutal. Then, there's 'the trial'. For teenagers, they are opportunities to earn a deal and perhaps launch themselves on a path to fame and wealth. For anybody old enough to have played when a goalkeeper could pick-up one of their back-passes, they represent a last-chance saloon. Ian Harte, Alan Maybury, Gary Breen and Stephen Carr are four of the more prominent Irishmen currently "between clubs" having amassed a total of 176 caps for their country. Such accomplishments on the CV seem to count for nothing in such a cut-throat, what-have-you-done-lately environment. Last Monday night, Harte lined out as part of his trial with Sheffield United as their reserves beat Newcastle Reserves 3-0 at the well-known home of football, Whitley Park. Harte's performance may well earn him a contract, but clubs are becoming increasingly fond of month-long deals which leave the threat of being back to square one dangling over the player. Maybury is now training with Crystal Palace, but while nothing has come of Breen's rumoured move to Walsall, it is Carr's case that is probably the most intriguing. At 32, Carr should be capable of another couple of seasons at a reasonable level, but if you believe the rumours, he has been linked with moves to Bayern Munich and Bohemians, each of which seem as far fetched as the other. The aforementioned quartet are, however, probably the lucky ones. With a couple of fat contracts behind them, there should be little need to worry about buying Christmas presents this year but, for those looking for another deal chances to impress are scarce. Former Shamrock Rovers player Richie Byrne, (26), released by Aberdeen last summer, hopes to get enough chances to impress at Oldham Athletic before his month-long deal runs out; Garreth O'Connor, (29), played for Luton's reserves recently, scoring twice and earning a penalty, but the club's perilous financial situation means he has yet to see any dotted lines on which to sign. Others sit with their mugshots, preferred position, height, weight and date of birth on a list circulated to managers and wait for the phone to ring. At least in the dole office, they are in good company -- the problem is it is probably too good. Ghana captain Stephen Appiah remains comfortably in his chair after being released by Fenerbahce last summer; sitting beside him are Quinton Fortune and Thomas Gravesen while Robbie Fowler only managed to leave a couple of days ago. And, just off his crutches, some Brazilian guy called Ronaldo has just arrived. The former Ireland manager has such an impressive record in English football's second flight that the popular and highly addictive computer game could have been modelled on him. Saturday's win over Bristol City gave Wolves their seventh victory in eight games as they build momentum for a Premier League push, although it is a destination which McCarthy may not relish. McCarthy has only managed one club in the top flight, Sunderland, and his record of two victories and 31 defeats from his time there isn't much to boast about. His ability to get teams towards the Premier League, however, is difficult to argue against. Beginning at Millwall, McCarthy enjoyed a respectable 67 victories from 177 games before taking the Ireland job. McCarthy lost all nine Premier League games when he initially returned to club management with Sunderland. However, in the following two full Championship seasons on Wearside his record showed a superb 51 wins from 92 games. Saturday was his 100th league game in charge of Wolves from which they have won 47. The ultimate Championship Manager is showing no signs of needing to reboot. TEN years ago, Noel O'Reilly took a coaching session in Mosney with a group of Belvedere's U-17s of which I was part. These three-or-four-day training camps mixed the business of training sessions by day with the pleasure of 'Shakers' niteclub by night and were part of the Dublin schoolboy club's history -- a getting-to-know-you for new faces and an annual re-union for old. This particular session saw us defending corners and I stood, as I normally would, facing the corner taker with my body at a 90-degree angle to the end line. "Stop," came the loud voice, as the coach walked over to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with me. "What can you see?" he asked. "You and the corner taker," I replied, slightly confused. He then took one step back, "now what can you see?" All I could see was the corner taker. "Stand this way," as he positioned me to a 45 degree angle. "That way you'll see both and won't lose your man at corners." That was the first time I met Noel O'Reilly and his passing this week brought the memory back into focus. It was a logical instruction from a superb coach for whom such a tiny tweak was just a drop in the ocean of his knowledge. I, like probably thousands of others, benefited from his coaching expertise, a legacy of which will be felt in this country for years to come. As a coach, and more importantly a person. TODAY Blue Square Premier: Rushden v Altrincham, Setanta Sports 1, 7.45 Tuesday UEFA CUP - St Pat's Ath v Hertha Berlin, RTE2, 4.45 Champions League: Zenit St. Petersburg v Real Madrid, Sky Sports 2, 5.30. Aalborg v Manchester Utd, ITV4, Villarreal v Celtic, Sky Sports 2 Setanta Irl; Bayern Munich v Lyon, Sky Sports Xtra; Fiorentina v Steaua Bucuresti, Sky Sports Interactive; Arsenal v FC Porto, ITV1; Fenerbahce v Dynamo Kiev, Sky Sports Interactive; BATE v Juventus, Sky Sports Interactive, all 7.45. Wednesday Champions League: Bordeaux v Roma, Sky Sports Interactive; CFR 1907 Cluj v Chelsea, Sky Sports Xtra, Sky Sports HD3, Setanta Ireland; Anorthosis Famagusta v Panathinaikos, Sky Sports Interactive; Inter Milan v Werder Bremen, Sky Sports Interactive; Shakhtar Donetsk v Barcelona, Sky Sports Interactive; Sporting v Basle, Sky Sports Interactive; Atletico Madrid v Marseille, Sky Sports Interactive; Liverpool v PSV Eindhoven, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports HD2, all 7.45. Thursday UEFA Cup, 1st Rd, 2nd Leg: TBC UEFA Cup 1st Round 2nd Leg Setanta Ireland 7.0; Manchester City v Omonia Nicosia , ITV4 7.45; Copa Sudamericana: River Plate v Defensor, Setanta Sports 2, 23.15. Friday Bundesliga: Arminia Bielefeld v Karsruhe SC Setanta Sports 1, 7.30. . Eircom Lge: Bohemians v Bray W, RTE2,. 7.35 Saturday Premier League: Blackburn Rovers v Manchester Utd, Setanta Sports ,5.30. Championship: Birmingham City v QPR, Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports HD1 12.45; Coventry City v Southampton, Sky Sports 2, 5.20. Sunday Premier League: West Ham Utd v Bolton Wanderers, Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports HD1 1.30; Everton v Newcastle Utd, Sky Sports 1, 4.0. Scottish Premier League: St Mirren v Rangers, Set Spts 1/Irl, 2.0. Eredivisie: SC Heerenveen v Ajax, Setanta Sports 2, 3.30. TBC La Liga Sky Sports , 7.0. Ligue 1: Nancy v PSG Setanta 2, 8.0. 
