sport football
{ Gareth A Davies, Stockholm 
    October 03 2014 11:41 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/ufc-head-gary-cook-conor-mcgregor-carries-the-same-mantle-as-michael-jordan-and-tiger-woods-30635396.html }
It says a great deal that Garry Cook, head of the UFC in EMEA, decided to head to Dublin five days ago to get a feel for the McGregor experience in the streets of Dublin. Smart. Very smart. The timing was perfect. While the Irishman held Las Vegas, not to mention the UFC world and its huge fanbase in the palms of his dangerous hands, ransomed by his mesmeric diatribes about invading Irish armies and takeovers, Cook watched the battle in the midst of McGregor's wider kin. Cook, talking from Stockholm where the UFC alights for the third successive year on Saturday night, and McGregor's stablemate Gunnar Nelson headlines against American Rick Story, offered his view on how McGregor's appeal is finding root in the mainstream of Irish society. Underlying this sojourn, the desire to figure out the best route to maximise McGregor's extraordinary, and rapid hold on a country, on a flag, on a people. Cook also discussed the impact the female fighting star Ronda Rousey could have on the UK and European market were she to embark on a media tour of Europe, as the world's leading fight organisation's influence continues its international rise. The world's leading fight organisation's influence continues to burgeon internationally way beyond its US, Las Vegas base.  "I was in Las Vegas up until Thursday of that week and everybody was in Conor McGregor mode. They were all getting ready for the event. I was flying back. I'm still trying to work out so many things in this business. I'm learning all the time and I love that. I've never stopped trying to be a learner of something new. On the flight home I was thinking 'I wonder what's going to be happening in Dublin?'" On Saturday morning Cook woke up, went to the airport, bought a ticket, called a hotel and asked if they had any rooms. Four hours later, eyes wide open, he was walking the streets of Dublin. "I landed at three o'clock and the All-Ireland hurling final was on at Croke Park. I went out for dinner and I was just wandering around asking about Conor McGregor. I was asking taxi drivers, bellmen, everybody. They all knew what was going on. So that was great. I then went to the event and saw a mixture of men and women." The event was being shown late in bars across the city. Cook went to a certain place. "It was early in the morning – around four o'clock – and there I was in Murray's Bar. There must've been about 1,500 people there. It's on the upper side of O'Connell's Street. Dana had been to this venue and signed autographs and had pictures taken when we had our Dublin event. Jill, the manageress there, has become something of a UFC fan." Cook described the scene: "In the Living Room, the big screen came on at four o'clock in the morning and everybody was watching the Zingano fight, the Kennedy fight and so on. I thought, gosh, this is a UFC moment. Then McGregor comes out to Sinead O'Connor and that takes hold. I'm asking questions. Should he fight in a stadium? Could he fight in a stadium? Ironically, as soon as his fight finished, the screens went dead and everybody went home." Lights go on... "They actually missed the main and the co-main event. You learn a lot from that kind of insight. Working for Nike for 15 years, I learnt that it's important to listen to the consumers and listen to the athletes tell you what they know about the sport. Of course, I called Lorenzo [Fertitta] and I called Lawrence [Espstein] the next day and just said, 'Hey, here's what's going on in Dublin. Here's what they think.' That helps to inform decision-making, I think." Cook's take is this: "While we talk about this perfect storm around this athlete, it's more than MMA, it's more than UFC. It's about a nation watching their warrior go off to battle. That's been with us for thousands of years. It's the little country taking on the world and we love that. It's David vs Goliath. It's the underdog story. Here's Conor McGregor going to fight in the Mecca of combat. How can you not support that?" "I also think that all sports have been determined by virtue of their athletes and their prowess. Whether it's Michael Jordan in basketball or Tiger Woods in golf or great footballers who carry that same mantle. What we're seeing is a defining moment. A defining moment always comes from an athlete in sport. We've just seen all of it come together."  Cook continues. "We didn't have a women's division and Ronda has taken the sport and women's athletics to a whole new level by virtue of the fact that she was voted the ESPN Women's Athlete of the Year. Two years ago we didn't even have a women's division. Conor is another one of those. The questions in Dublin are, who's next? We've all asked the question. Well, he hasn't fought a wrestler yet. Wait until he fights a wrestler – it will be a different story. Poirier was supposed to be a different deal. But every time this invincibility shows through. They keep trying to find something that is going to be a challenge for him. If they find a wrestler and he wins, that invincibility will just continue. In his mind, he's unbeatable. Maybe he's right." We switch to talking about Ronda Rousey, the female athlete who has a huge, mainstream, crossover appeal. I suggest that Rousey, in the UK, could be a fit for the Today Programme on BBC Radio 4, the opinion former's listen in the morning, or Radio 1, or Graham Norton. Rousey is a tough, sassy, sexy, bright woman capturing the moment for a woman's movement. Earlier in the day, in the USA, Fertitta, on FOX Sports, had talked about paying women the same as male fighters. How many sports do we see inequality in men's and women's pay scales. Rousey has captured a moment in time. She has become emblematic. "You have to give credit to the UFC machine. Ronda was a bronze medal judo player in the Beijing Olympics. When you come out of that and you become a part of a commercial machine, you see rapid growth and rapid awareness. Credit to the UFC for creating the monster that becomes a commercial entity." "She could stand for so much more than just being a fighter in the UFC. She represents women's sport, she's articulate, she has expanded her horizons beyond her sport, she's a spokesperson on many different things. We all know this sport isn't for everybody and there will be people who don't like her or the sport, but there would be many others who would see her as taking on a male-dominated world and more than holding her own. I think a lot of women, and even a lot of men, who can relate to Ronda Rousey. There are certainly a lot of athletes who can relate to her. You will find that not only is she a great personality, but she will be an exponent of great determination, mental strength and a physical commitment to her sport that surpasses human potential. I think that's what we see in her and that's what we see in Conor McGregor and Anderson Silva. They go above and beyond." I suggest that Rousey, given her pioneering drive for women, could be for women in society, in a sense, what Muhammad Ali was to colour at one time. Pathfinders. "Gunnar Nelson has a four month old baby that he hasn't seen because he's been in training camp after training camp. He's dedicated to his sport. He surpasses human potential. That's what makes them all relevant to everybody," adds Cook to that. "Great athletes have always commanded an audience and that audience is usually a monetisation process. They are expected to share the rewards. I think you're seeing gender equity in sport across the entire world. Title 9 in America has been in the college system for many years. If there's a soccer team, there has to be a men's soccer team and a women's soccer team. Same with judo and so on. There has to be a balance. I think the only sport that doesn't do that is American football, and they are supplying the finances. I think we're in an era now where we're seeing great changes and women are leading the way, which is wonderful." "Ronda is creating an economy for other fighters. How many more fighters are we seeing come on the roster now who are making a living out of once was effectively an amateur sport? They're now earning a living and making a name for themselves." Again, earlier in the day, Fertitta had spoken of the UFC's desire to have 500 random drugs tests in 2015. The Telegraph understands that the UFC will invest around $4.3 million US next year in ensuring that is done. I asked Cook what impact fighters testing positive had on the UFC brand in business terms. "People often ask me what's different between working at a football club and working at the UFC," offered Cook. "When you work at a football club, you are changing the landscape of the club and the team. The communities that surround the football club in that universe – whether it's the media, the league, the FA – none of them come to an agreement on anything." He added: "We control all of the intellectual property. We control all of the elements. We actually control our destiny. And our destiny was once to legitimise a sport. Then we wanted to hold some events. Then we wanted to become a television product. The evolution of where we've come from has been an interesting one. We're on the precipice of changing the landscape of sport." "If you can change the landscape of sport and you can change your own governance and your own regulation, why wouldn't you be the pioneer that says for all that's gone before us in sport, why don't we set the standard? Why don't we become the sport standard for performance enhancement? We can set that standard by virtue of managing our own testing programme that maybe the WADA would wish for any sport to you. That is when you change lives and you change the world of sport." "I can assure you that many of the sports and the leagues and the associations are avoiding that subscription by virtue of the fact they know there might be something in there. If you're open and honest, and you want to make sure it's the right thing, then do the right thing. Lorenzo is taking a stance and a position, clearly and publicly, on our wish to make sure that nobody can criticise our commitment to making this a pure sport. There's nothing more authentic than two humans in combat in the Octagon. And if you can ensure that it's pure, that's better for sport all-round. If we're pure, everybody else should be." It's been a fine week for the UFC. All it needs, week after week, of course, is for the fighters to deliver. Like the organisation's executives are clearly intent on doing. The Cook Report from Dublin certainly threw up some intriguing views. Isn't sport often about timing and choosing to be in the right place at the right time ? It was certainly that way on Saturday night. Online Editors 
