sport football
{  
    July 16 2011 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/watch-out-gaa-odriscoll-is-taking-rugby-to-a-new-frontier-26752568.html }
Prominent members of the GAA must have felt a shudder down their spines when they learned this week what Brian O'Driscoll plans to do after his retirement. Ireland's growing army of rugby fans will be hoping that there are a couple of years left in the old BOD yet. But at the age of 32, Ireland's most popular sportsman has his future mapped out. In a speech to the Dublin Chamber of Commerce he said he hopes to set up a rugby coaching academy across the country. He wants to develop a network of rugby camps that could play a role in making rugby "less elitist''. "Hopefully, we can get the masses playing and steal some of those GAA players that are out there," said O'Driscoll, possibly half-jokingly. He already runs his own summer rugby camp in north Dublin. Nobody, in fact, has done more to change the sporting fabric of Ireland than O'Driscoll. He has brought rugby to a new frontier. The success and slick professionalism of the lionhearted centre, and his peers at Leinster and Munster, have ensured that the sport has a mass appeal that the GAA is increasingly struggling to match. One former inter-county Gaelic footballer said: "People love the rough and tumble of rugby. It has a glamour and celebrity element that you don't really see in the GAA. Brian O'Driscoll is married to an actress, Rob Kearney is going out with one, and others can be seen out with models.'' With his wife Amy Huberman, O'Driscoll is just as likely to grace the social columns as the sports pages. Kearney's girlfriend Suzy Amy could be portrayed as the quintessential WAG having played the character Chardonnay in the ITV drama Footballers' Wives. The glamour of the sport has contributed to the size of the crowds. David O'Siocháin, a sports and sponsorship director with Pembroke Communications in Dublin, says the Irish Rugby Football Union has succeeded in attracting many female fans. "The IRFU has recognised the existence and importance of the social rugby supporter. "These fans are gender neutral; they attend games regularly and purchase replica jerseys.'' While the three main rugby provinces play in front of packed houses, GAA fans have been alarmed at the small size of crowds in recent months. The Munster hurling final should be one of the biggest events on the sporting calendar, but last Sunday at Páirc Uí Chaoimh only 36,000 turned up to see All-Ireland champions Tipperary take on Waterford. Only 17,000 turned out when Tipp played Clare in the Munster semi-final. The growing popularity of rugby cannot just be seen in the size of the crowds and the development of a fan culture similar in many ways to that of English premier league football. The sport is blossoming at underage level in previously infertile territories, including strongholds of the GAA. When Danno O'Keeffe helped to set up Corca Dhuibhne Rugby Club on the Dingle Peninsula in Kerry in the 1990s he could barely muster a dozen players. Now Europe's most westerly rugby club at the foot of Mount Brandon has 230 members, with boys playing from under-eight upwards. There are also girls teams. Danno says: "I remember a time when only one pub in Dingle showed the rugby internationals. Now there are Munster flags everywhere.'' Underage rugby is also thriving in other unlikely places such as Donegal, Connemara, and in the rural counties of Leinster. Overall the number of players has grown by 25,000 over the past five years, according to the IRFU. A decade ago no more than a dozen children would turn up for training at the tiny Tullow Rugby Club in Co Carlow. Now there are more than 150 kids there every Sunday, encouraged by the success of local farmer Sean O'Brien, the latest star of the Leinster and Irish teams. A ripple of pride swept through the town in May when Leinster won the Heineken Cup, and O'Brien held aloft the Tullow flag. In a previous era O'Brien would have played GAA for his county. "There is a very good community spirit about the club,'' says one of Tullow's leading lights, PJ Haskins. "Without a doubt stars such as Brian O'Driscoll have made the sport more popular. It has become a sexy sport. He is a lady's man.'' It is not only the success of the national team and provincial clubs that have attracted boys, and quite a number of girls, in unlikely places. With a missionary zeal the Irish Rugby Football Union has gone out of its way to attract young players through its network of youth development officers. They tour schools and try to win over youngsters. Although the game is not thriving everywhere at adult level, the lure of professionalism -- and potential pay packets of up to €400,000 a year -- are pulling some of the best sporting talent away from GAA to rugby. Thirty years ago, big bulky players might have come to rugby, because they were not fleet-footed enough for GAA at the top level. The late Moss Keane, the rugby international from Kerry, admitted that at times playing GAA he "felt like a man trying to turn an articulated lorry in a bathroom''. Now rugby has the potential to win over the top Gaelic footballers and hurlers. Tomás O'Leary might reasonably have expected to captain the Cork senior hurling team, after leading the county to All-Ireland success at minor level. But having held a hurl since the age of two, he switched to rugby. "It is only natural that he would make the switch,'' said one senior rugby administrator, "because he can now make a very good living in sport.'' Brian O'Driscoll's remark about poaching GAA players may have been said half in jest, but some believe that the rugby authorities could do a lot more to win converts. In his recent book Blue Blood, the former Leinster player Bernard Jackman said: "Without a doubt, most of the best athletes in Ireland play Gaelic games and I have always been amazed at how, as an organisation, the IRFU never aggressively tried to convert football and hurling stars to our game. I also wonder why Leinster, Munster and Connacht are not trying to convert at least one Gaelic footballer or hurler to our game each season.'' Rugby still lags way behind GAA in terms of participation rates, but it seems to be surging ahead of hurling and Gaelic football as a spectator sport. A 2009 survey by Pembroke Communications showed that rugby (23pc) was the second most popular sport behind soccer (25pc). Gaelic football, on 22pc, and hurling, on 9pc, may be losing ground. David O'Siocháin says the success of the national team and the provinces has been responsible for rugby's surge in popularity. Pat Geraghty, Munster's media manager, says stars such as Brian O'Driscoll and Paul O'Connell have played an important role in promoting the sport by making themselves accessible to the public. "The fact that nearly all of our rugby internationals play here is a huge advantage,'' says Geraghty. "The international footballers may just be here for a couple of days, and may take hardly any time to meet the public.'' "The rugby players are here all the time and go out of their way to sell the game. They stay behind to sign autographs for the fans at training and when they are in hotels. That is hugely important.'' In the coming weeks Munster will hold pre-season training sessions in Waterford, Tralee and Cashel away from rugby's traditional heartland. The aim is to reinforce the sport's presence -- and give fans an opportunity to meet the players. Meanwhile, Leinster are hosting rugby summer camps for kids in far-flung corners of the province not normally associated with the sport such as Longford, south Wexford, and Dundalk. When Brian O'Driscoll sets up his national coaching academy, the sport is likely to be taken to further new frontiers. And if he succeeds in his aim of stealing away more of the best GAA players, the authorities in Croke Park will have good reason to be worried. Indo Review 
