sport football
{ CLIONA FOLEY 
    May 17 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/our-young-ones-arent-just-gifted-they-know-how-to-be-winners-on-world-stage-26187208.html }
ANY sensible, stable Irish citizen could have been forgiven for coming over all woozy while watching Ireland's U16s soccer darlings beat Italy (Italy!) two Fridays ago to become European champions. Somehow, out of nowhere, it seems like our underage teams have been making everyone else eat dirt in the past two months and it happened again last Thursday night at Tolka with the U18s. Since the U20 soccer success in Malaysia last summer this madness has gone from the sublime to the ridiculous. Last month the Irish U18s came home with a prestigious soccer trophy from Oporto on the same weekend as our U19 won their rugby World Cup in Toulouse! Perhaps most apocalyptic of all, at the same time, were our U15 footballers at their World Championships in France. A team of young Moroccans (a side who had beaten Brazil in their own group) were so in awe of the Irish that when they went four goals down after 20 minutes they started dropping like flies with faked `injuries'. When they had only seven players left on the pitch and refused to put on any of their subs, (whom they also claimed were `injured'!), the referee promptly awarded the game to Vinny Butler's side. It may sound like something out of a Monty Python sketch but it happened and left Ireland seventh out of 32 nations. Considering they beat Portugal, Uruguay, lost to Croatia and Spain on penalties and only went down to England (eventually third) by a late own goal in the quarter-final, this was another marvellous achievement. But while we're all getting dizzy reading `Young, Gifted and Green' headlines, the reality is that we're sitting out this summer's World Cup and didn't win a game in this year's Five Nations. And that raises one of the greatest imponderables in world sport: How do you translate youth success to senior victory? Making that transition is not simple, and only a tiny percentage will ever do it. But it could be summarised as the Five Cs: quality in Coaching, Competition, Continuity, Careers and Cash. Irish soccer has had most of these before through the professional, cross-channel game and some quality coaches and scouting at home. In the early '80s Liam Tuohy, then Irish Youths manager with Brian Kerr and Noel O'Reilly assisting, led Ireland to three consecutive European U18 finals. That culminated in qualification to the '84 U20 World Cup finals in Russia where, though they lost all three games, they were actually the only side to put a goal past eventual champions Brazil. That Irish team contained Denis Irwin, Terry Phelan, the goalkeeping Kelly brothers Alan and Gary, John Sheridan and Niall Quinn, all of whom went on to senior success. Today's hopefuls have benefitted since from the introduction of mini-soccer. ``The fact that they're playing just seven-a-side games, with no off-side rule, from the time they're five to 10 has definitely improved their skill levels,'' according to Irish U15 manager Vinny Butler. But today's teen stars could find it harder than ever to follow Roy Keane and Co. After taking their eye off the underage international scene during the admittedly distracting senior success of the Charlton era, the FAI has got things back on the rails by putting Brian Kerr and Noel O'Reilly in charge of the U16 to U20 grades. Yet as Kerr himself has pointed out: ``The solution these days in England isn't to give the 18-year-old from Galway a run when things go bad, the solution is to throw in a new £5m Italian.'' Successful European countries have overcome this by developing good, internal underage club structures (eg Ajax) or, in the case of France and England, developing a home-based national Centre of Excellence. Sixty kilometres outside Paris you will find France's National Institute of Football in Clairefontaine: essentially a soccer boarding school for the nation's 60 best U13 to U15s. They live and train on campus, go to school locally and travel home to their clubs at weekends. THE French FA and their league fund it to the tune of six million francs (£750,000) a year and they have another six regional centres which do a similar job before letting their jewels into the professional club system. The English FA has, since 1984, had its own `National School of Football' at Lilleshall in Shropshire which takes 35 of the best 15 and 16 year-olds in the country on a two-year residential scholarship. Its graduates include Michael Owen, Andy Cole, Nicky Barmby, Sol Campbell, Jamie Carragher and Ian Walker. Although still contracted to clubs, they played only for the school, while going to classes in a local comprehensive. The terrible irony is that the FA has decided to close this school next year because it believes the clubs, through their 146 Centres of Excellence, can now do the same thing, a pretty dubious notion considering clubs have completely different agendas (ie winning) than a school with a more holistic approach. What may eventually be needed here is some sort of FAI School of Excellence (possibly regional) which steers young talent, not just to England, but to home and European clubs. What is worrying is the FAI's failure to appoint a new National Director of Coaching since Bryan Hamilton turned down the job over three months ago. Rugby has always been more problematic. As an amateur sport in a small country with limited competition, we have always suffered from the problem of keeping good schools players involved, particularly as the historical conservatism of clubs means they rarely break into senior teams as teenagers. Despite the fact that the senior international team have developed a nasty losing habit, results at all other grades prove that the is talent there. For example, the schools' team beat Scotland and Wales and lost to England by just four points this year. The Youths were unbeaten; while the U21s, Universities and A teams all won their respective Triple Crowns. And then of course, there are the U19s ... kings of the World. We have won the U21 Triple Crown before and six years ago current U19 coach Declan Kidney took a schools' team which included Anthony Foley, Johnny Bell and Jeremy Davidson to New Zealand. They were unbeaten until meeting a test side that included Jonah Lomu and Jeff Wilson who beat them 27-25 with a last minute penalty. Two years ago another Irish schools team went on tour to Australia and came home unbeaten. Ten of those were on this year's U21 Triple Crown winning team and most of them will be underage again next year. This is proof that the IRFU has finally put some vital gap-bridging structures in place. Firstly, they appointed Game Development Officers working at underage level in the provinces, whose job vitally includes working with good `club' teenagers, who are not involved in schools. These have formed the new Irish Youths (U18 club players) team for the past three years. People like recently-resigned Director of Rugby Ray Southam and Kidney also pointed out that we needed competition at this vital age-group (between school and U23). This was only our second year in the U19 World Cup. Then came the national `Foundation Squad', a three-year cycle which aimed to support the best talent from U19-21 in a scholarship-type system before they went fully professional. FIFTY of the first 60 `Foundation' players have played at U21 for Ireland. Of those, 27 have played senior interpro, 14 of that 27 have made it to the Irish `A' ranks and 10 have made it to the Irish senior team. Now the IRFU has expanded this into an elite `Player Academy'. This importantly brings the cream of school and club rugby together for the first time, commits each to 650-training hours a-season and provides them with additional career/education advice. Noticeably, all of the 120 full-time professional players who will receive IRFU contracts next season, will have to commit to helping `Academy' players with their game. That is the sort of continuity needed, but it is just the start to keeping our best young rugby talent in the net. Ironically an amateur sport like GAA, with its U18/U21/Senior club/county format, is one of the few Irish sports to provide a competitive transitional system and indeed their modern coaching manuals are in demand worldwide. But apart from the GAA and a few other individual exceptions, Irish sport has lolloped along for decades, run by brilliant volunteers but with minimal organised structures. Several innovations give one cause for cautious optimism. Seven years ago the Government set up the National Coaching and Training Centre (NCTC) in the University of Limerick. Unfairly viewed by some sceptics as a place for sports academics to shuffle glossy brochures about, it is gradually becoming accepted and relevant. It provides sports science expertise and a training facility which both the senior soccer and rugby teams are now using as pre-match headquarters. BRIAN KERR had his Malaysian heros there before the World Cup for extensive acclimatisation work. But more of the NCTC's work has been on the coaching side, where, particularly at base levels, we are overly dependent on well-meaning but voluntary and unqualified coaches. The NCTC has worked with sporting organisations (NGBs) to set up recognised coaching courses and standards. And while that has happened in 19 sports so far with over 3000 coaches certified, only three sports (athletics, soccer and tennis) have piloted Level Three coaching courses which hold international recognition and certify people to coach professionally, something that's been largely missing in Irish sport. The Government is currently studying a bill which will give the new (and only real one we've ever had) Sports Council statutory powers to plan and fund sport in the future. This will have several innovations. Elite athlete funding will soon be based solely on reaching established, definable targets at junior/senior, national/international level. Only two weeks ago the Government announced a `carding scheme', which will give elite individual athletes what amounts to a graded credit card which allows them access sports medicine, science and facilities nationally. But a glance at other systems shows what we're up against. Australia's U17 Aussie Rules footy team recently visited these shores. They included the best 30 players from last year's U16 National Championship who are also on State U18 Development squads. This U17 team alone has a budget of £250,000 a-year, funded jointly by the pro-league and the Australian Institute of Sport (AIS). THE AIS is an umbrella institution set up in 1981 which offers 600 residential sports scholarships a-year and has a five-year budget of £200m alone with the express aim of producing medals in the Sydney Olympics. Australia, noticeably, has a minister devoted solely to sport in its cabinet. It not only has the sophisticated AIS in Canberra (the place you see some of England's top stars train in those Kelloggs `Sustain' advertisements), but also regional centres in seven other areas. This system, while far from perfect, has already produced many stars, people who have reached the very top in sports like rugby, hockey and basketball. And noticeably, in Australia, it is regional squads and club sport, not school sport, which takes precedence. Their U17 footy stars, for example, are only allowed play one competitive game per weekend: compare that to some of the over-used youngsters in this country. After their own lack of success in Atlanta, Britain is now going down a similar road. The Conservative Government initially wanted to go for a similar centralised `British Academy of Sport'. Under New Labour that has evolved to setting up a central `UK Sports Institute' in Sheffield with nine other regional centres, which will be named this month. These will offer residential training, top coaches and local education and career guidance. Already Britain allocates 20 per cent of their three-year-old Lottery profits to sport. They have already earmarked an additional £40-60million to set up the new Institute and a further £100m to set up their regional network. What have we got here? A Lottery which, in 1987, initially gave 37 per cent of its surplus to a broad area called `youth/sport/recreation'. That dropped as low as 25 per cent in '92 but is now at 33 per cent but the reality is that `sport' gets about half of that percentage. The National Lottery Review Group (who took submissions from over 120 interested parties and produced their report a year ago), suggested a more transparent and accountable system from both the givers and receivers, but has still had no official government response. The strategic plan for Irish sport (1997-2006 and Beyond), commissioned by Bernard Allen in '95, suggested that our lottery funding to sport, which it estimated at 15.5 per cent in 1995, should be increased by two per cent a-year up to 25 per cent by 2001. When the Government finally makes the Sports Council a full statuatory body (probably not until next year) it will also give it an annual budget.  What that budget is, where it is spent, how Irish sports bodies themselves organise their underage coaching and competitive structures from the vital U16 to U21 level, these are what will ultimately decide how many of today's promising recruits will grow up into a major Green Sporting Army. 
