sport football
{  
    April 05 2009 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/horse-racing/its-a-racing-certainty-and-its-all-done-with-your-money-26526449.html }
O ver the past year this column has drawn attention to the ludicrously privileged position enjoyed in the Irish sports funding system by horse and greyhound racing. Last year it pointed out that the Horse and Greyhound Racing Fund, catering for a mere two sports, received €76m, a quarter of all sporting expenditure, while the Sports Council, which funds 63 different sports, 33 local sports partnerships and all our elite athletes, received €57m. This didn't seem quite fair. Since then, the situation has got even worse. The Horse and Greyhound Racing Fund has taken a ten per cent cut to just over €68m but, given far more severe cutbacks elsewhere, it now accounts for a whopping third of the Government sports budget. This comes at a time, of course, when the economic situation is vastly different to the one which pertained in 2008. Certain people in horse racing circles were not particularly happy that the Sunday Independent drew attention to the sport's status as political sweetheart and the paper received several letters. Leo Powell of the Irish Field wrote that "what the writer fails to notice is that racing is not looking for grants or subsidies or handouts. It is looking for an equitable share of the betting tax that it helps to generate." The reason I failed to notice this is that it's not true, but we'll come to that. Jim Kavanagh, chief executive of the Irish Racehorse Trainers' Association described my columns on the subject as "inaccurate, unresearched and unwarranted." Mr Kavanagh also berated me for having "failed to inform his readers that Irish racing is the good news story of Irish sport." The problem is, that isn't a fact, it's a matter of opinion. And what this argument needs is not opinion but cold, hard facts. You be the judge of who is right and who is wrong. It is, after all, your money that's being spent. The first thing to note is that while the Horse and Greyhound Racing Fund has taken a minuscule hit this year, one of the most important of all sports funds has been completely axed. No money will be paid out in 2009 under the Sports Capital Programme. Since that programme began in 1998, it has funded over 6,700 projects at local and national level. In 2008, in my home county of Cork alone, for example, it funded rowing, Gaelic games, sailing, soccer, sub aqua, table tennis, rugby, gymnastics, American football, pitch and putt, judo, basketball, tennis, taekwondo, swimming and kayaking clubs, not to mention the Wheelchair Association and COPE, the organisation for children and adults with learning disabilities. In 2007, €85m was spent on the Sports Capital programme. Last year, the money was cut to €56m, or by 35 per cent. This year there will be no money at all. It is stating the obvious that clubs badly needed that money or they wouldn't have applied for, or been given, it. Yet a Minister who can find €68m for horse and greyhound racing can find nothing for such clubs and organisations this year. It seems particularly odd that the Capital Programme, which often funds building projects, is being cut at a time of catastrophically rising unemployment in the construction industry. Is this fair? You be the judge. It's your money. One of the points made in defence of the huge outlay on the Horse and Greyhound Racng Fund is that the two sports provide employment and are not sports but industries which are a vital part of the rural economy. In this case, they should either be funded by the Department of Industry, Trade and Employment or, as used to be the case, the Department of Agriculture. Because, as it stands, their drain on the sports budget greatly reduces the money available for other sporting bodies. Or, in the case of the Sports Capital Programme, eliminates it altogether. But does this argument that the money goes to protect jobs in Irish racing actually hold water? A quick check of the most recent figures reveals that only 19.5 per cent of money spent by the HRI went towards operating costs. A measly 2.9 per cent went towards racecourse improvement. Over half of it, 51.4 per cent to be precise, went towards prize money. And last year, 56.4 per cent of prize money in Irish horse racing came from the Government-funded HRI. Or, to put it more plainly, you. So who ended up with your money? Well, over 30 per cent of prize money in Irish Flat racing went to the top eight owners. This eight included foreign citizens such as His Highness the Aga Khan, the Maktoums, Derrick Smith, a former director of Ladbrokes based in Barbados, and Michael Tabor, a former London bookie now living in Monaco. Top of the list was Mrs John Magnier. John Magnier may be Irish but he's a tax exile. And so is JP McManus, who was the top earning National Hunt owner. That's where your money is going. Maybe it's fair that you give oil sheikhs and tax exiles a dig-out. You be the judge. It's your money. The Minister for Sport's determination to maintain the level of horse and greyhound racing funding is remarkable. It's not, after all, as if the HRI is on its uppers. Between 2001 and 2006, it enjoyed a total budgetary surplus of €80m, €30m of this coming from land deals. It also possesses hundreds of acres of surplus land. There's also the question of why it needs quite so much money. Which brings us back to the Aga Khan, the Maktoums and the boys from Barbados and Monaco. Because, with the exception of Japan, Irish horse racing prize money is the highest in the world at an average of €24,600 per race. This compares with the UK average of €15,600 per race. If the argument is that Irish money needs to be so high to compete with our rivals across the water, the 58 per cent difference indicates severe overkill. A substantial cut in the Fund would still leave Ireland with higher than average prize money. The money saved could have gone to the other sports blackguarded by the axing of the Sports Capital Programme. And, while the Sheikhs, the Aga and the exiles would no doubt agree that the fund represents great value for money, the ordinary sporting punter seems to disagree. Because since 2001, despite €545m being pumped into the fund, total horse racing attendances are down by 25,000. The average attendance per race has gone down by 23 per cent. Though perhaps this isn't surprising given that the most recent figures show Horse Racing Ireland spending less than four per cent of their budget on marketing. The great red herring utilised by politicians in this debate is that of the relationship between horse racing and bookmaking. In the first instance, the Fund was supposed to make the bookies pay towards the sport from which they apparently derived their profits. Yet it never turned out like this. In 2008, even if the fund was presumed to have received every last cent of betting tax, that still accounted for less than half the money shelled out. Government paid most of it. Or, if you prefer, you did. To take some of the bad look off things, the Government has, on the urging of Horse Racing Ireland, decided to double betting tax. Minister Martin Cullen told the Oireachtas Joint Committee on Arts, Sports, Tourism, Community, Rural and Gaeltacht Affairs on Thursday that this would come close to relieving the necessity for additional Government funding. At first sight this argument seems to make sense. People bet on horse racing in the bookies, don't they? So horse racing is entitled to this money, right? Wrong. There is no reason in the world why Irish horse and greyhound racing is entitled to every last cent of betting tax levied in this country. Why not? For a start because only 16.3 per cent of the turnover in a typical Irish bookmakers, Paddy Power, comes from Irish horse racing. 47.1 per cent of it comes from English horse racing, 13.3 per cent from, almost exclusively English greyhound racing, 8.7 per cent from other foreign horse racing, 6.8 per cent from football. Irish horse racing has no entitlement to all this money. Ireland is the only country in the world which hands over all its betting tax to two sports, 80 per cent of it to horse racing. In England and Australia, horse racing receives a far more reasonable 10 per cent. Raising betting tax may be a good idea; however, I am intrigued as to why HRI want it increased to ostensibly protect employment in the industry when it's widely considered that such an increase will only hit jobs elsewhere -- in bookies' shops. Anyway, why should it be earmarked for the support of any one sport? Why shouldn't the extra money from the doubled betting tax go to the Sports Capital Programme, to the GAA, to rugby, to soccer, to wheelchair sport, to the whole rich tapestry of sports in this country? Maybe, in the current economic climate, it shouldn't go to sport at all. Maybe it could go towards providing decent wards for Cystic Fibrosis sufferers, to avoiding cutbacks in special needs teachers, to cutting hospital waiting lists. At a time when we're all being exhorted to share the pain, it doesn't seem unreasonable to ask the Sheikhs and HH The Aga Khan to do likewise. If they're short a few quid, John Magnier could always give them a dig-out. These are the facts. A third of the sports budget goes to horse racing. The majority of that goes towards prize money. A big percentage of that goes to some of the richest men ever to set foot in this country. Is that fair? You be the judge. It's your money. Perhaps it's too late to be telling you this. Because on Thursday the aforementioned joint committee on Sports, Tourism, Arts and Culture gave the go ahead to that €68m for the Horse and Greyhound Racing Fund. There will be no Dail debate on this, the Minister hurried it through the committee and the members passed it without a single howl of outrage from the assembled deputies and senators. You may be interested to know the names of the public representatives involved apart from the Minister. Take a bow Deputies Michael Kennedy, Aine Brady, Sean Connick and Cyprian Brady and Senators Ned O'Sullivan and Labrhás ó Murchú of Fianna Fail, Deputies Jack Wall and Mary Upton of Labour, Deputies John O'Mahony and Olivia Mitchell and Senator Jerry Buttimer of Fine Gael and Deputy Mary White of the Green Party. Well done. Every last ignoble one of you has abrogated forever the right to comment about sports funding in this country. There is no excuse. Remember those names because next time they come looking for your vote it might be worth noting that in all of their constituencies are clubs hit by the axing of the Sports Capital Programme and people who might have got themselves and their families through the next year by working on projects at those clubs. But we can't afford to pay for this apparently. Prize money for oil sheikhs, tax exiles and multi-millionaires, that we can afford. Is that fair? You be the judge. It's your money. Sorry, it was your money. Since Thursday, it's Horse Racing Ireland's. thephotograph@hotmail.com 
