sport football
{  
    February 18 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-monumental-ambition-of-a-sports-junkie-26247208.html }
Think Bertie  Think Sport. No-one realises better than our Taoiseach the manifold political benefits of subsidising  sport, suggests Jerome Reilly PERCHED on the rear wing of the 2001 Jordan Grand Prix car at its Irish launch last week, the Taoiseach Bertie Ahern looked as though he feared his 15-stone frame might buckle the high tech chassis. Nevertheless, with his new pal Eddie Jordan a wheel's width away, Mr Ahern put on the painted smile and posed for the photographers to capture the moment for the morning papers. It was an invitation Mr Ahern couldn't refuse. In fact, it was an invitation he didn't receive at all. Mr Ahern wasn't on the guest list and wasn't at the formal evening launch, but in between official engagements earlier in the day he kept a personal promise to bask in the reflected high octane glamour of Ireland's only Formula one racing team. Think Bertie Ahern. Think Sport. It's Bertie in an anorak in Parnell Park as the Dubs battle in the mid-winter muck of the National Football League an essential annual reassertion of his middle Ireland GAA roots. It's Bertie at Old Trafford, rubbing shoulders with Cork radio licence applicants "Roy" and "Dinny" and roaring on his beloved Manchester United the ultimate fiscal and sporting monolith. It's Bertie at the Galway races every single summer, shouldering his way into the betting ring with a wedge of cash like any gobdaw punter and pressing the flesh of builders and the racing hoi polloi @@STYL sw,8 in Fianna Fail's Ballybrit marquee. @@STYL sw,8.5 Think Bertie and think of Stadium Ireland, the personal crusade that will, he hopes, be a lasting monument to his administration, a testament to these Celtic Tiger days when Ireland had money to burn. Charlie had the arts and culture and golden eagles, Bertie will have his Stadium, though the £50 million promised by JP McManus is beginning to look like mere beer money in relation to the overall cost. If Stadium Ireland's ultimate success depends on getting the FAI to abandon Eircom Park and make the Bertie Bowl soccer's home then that will happen. No Government in the history of the State has spent more money on sport. No Government has played politics with sport to a greater degree and milked it for its own promotion and self-aggrandisement. The branding of Bertie as a political entity is unequivocally linked with sport. Ask 90 per cent of voters and they will have a relatively clear view of Bertie Ahern's sporting life. They would be less clear on his position on the major social, fiscal and security issues of the day. At 9am next Friday in Government Buildings, the Taoiseach, Charlie McCreevy and Jim McDaid will meet an FAI delegation to ensure that soccer becomes a tenant of StadiumIreland. Eircom Park is seemingly bogged down, not least because the Government's Department of Defence has lodged planning objections to the proposal. The delegation from Irish soccer would be well advised to listen carefully to what the Taoiseach says and take careful note of what Mr McCreevy will promise. Those of a nervous disposition could be forgiven for thinking that the Taoiseach's comments could be construed as a warning rather than friendly advice. "I think the Stadium Ireland idea is best for sport in this country and best for the FAI. I'll be doing my best to see that it happens. I am often accused of being passionate about this but I am passionate about most things. When I go abroad you see what we are up against. We have to be real about what we are trying to do for sport in this country." The personal passion is self-evident but the close links with sport also make great politics. A glance around the cabinet table. Does Charlie McCreevy, lilywhite GAA to the core and a committed follower of the turf, wake up and pore over the Wall Street Journal or do the Indo's sports pages prove irresistible? Does Foreign Affairs Minister and former Offaly under-21 player Brian Cowen, take Newsweek ahead of the Tullamore Tribune to see how Clara got on in the senior championship? Likewise Jim McDaid, inveterate punter and Cheltenham regular, probably takes the Racing Post to check out the Pricewise column of Mervyn Collier. This intrinsic and electorally valuable linkage between Fianna Fail and sport has not been lost on Michael Noonan, who has always peppered his speech with sporting clichés and who haschosen to man-mark Bertie on his own turf. NOONAN has chosen sport as his personal portfolio. His pledge to "man-mark" Bertie, to keep his eye on the ball and numerous references to hurling football and rugby nearly overshadowed his decision to position Enda Kenny at left back in the Fine Gael squad; "left back" on the back benches, that is. Bertie's commitment and fascination with sport has come at a cost to the taxpayer of many millions, as he revealed at the recent Texaco Sports stars annual awards ceremony another must-attend engagement. Total sports funding has increased by over £100 million from £13 million when the present administration took office in 1997 to over £117m for this year. Last year alone, £36 million was invested in sports facilities a 700 per cent increase in two years. The number of projects funded is up by almost 300 per cent to 680 different programmes or sporting projects. Yet Bertie's love of thegames has not all been plain sailing. The opposition made him uncomfortable when it emerged he had travelled to Old Trafford in a luxury jet leased by Marlborough Recruitment majority shareholder David McKenna, a well-known Fianna Fail supporter and party contributor. One of Marlborough's directors is Des Richardson, a close political ally of Mr Ahern's, a former fundraiser for the party and a brother of Damien Richardson, the Shamrock Rovers manager. Last summer, it emerged that Mr Des Richardson had approached Liam Lawlor in a failed bid to get him to act as a consultant for the £375 million proposed casino in the Phoenix Park. Last week-end, Mr Ahern was to be the guest of Celtic football club at the Old Firm clash until in got bogged down in sectarian strife and Mr Ahern had tocancel. @@STYL sw,8.5 Businessman Dermot Desmond holds a significant 14 per cent stake in Celtic football club while one of Mr Desmond's closest associates is JP McManus, who has offered to stump up £50 million of the estimated £1 billion bill for Stadium Ireland. A donation of this size and generosity does have some inherent advantages for the popular owner of Istabraq who will be able to write it off against any income tax he owes the State, and Mr McManus can also apply to spend up to 320 days a year and still keep his current tax status. The Government giving £20 million to the GAA to help in the redevelopment of Croke Park, shows the current cabinet has not been slow to dip into its pocket to help the sporting industries. Mr McCreevy's 5 per cent cut in betting tax, down from 10 per cent, has reaped rich rewards for bookmakers whose turnover increased by £219m in 1999. Similarly, Michael Smurfit's successful bid to host the Ryder Cup at the K Club will be supported by £8 million in taxpayers' cash, courtesy of Bord Failte during the next four years. The Government has learned that you win some and you lose some and they lost one particular battle last week when Mr McDaid found himself out-politicked by Pat Hickey, who retained the Presidency of the Olympic Council of Ireland. Everybody, it seemed, from the cabinet down wanted Hickey's head. That impression of Hickey with his back to the wall against the combined might of the State's sporting bureaucrats may have helped swing vital votes his way. Mr Ahern managed to keep out of that battle while managing to maintain an enviable record of having a guaranteed photo-opportunity with the leading light from the world of sport almost every other week. Eddie Jordan may now not be considered good enough to be Ireland's Government-appointed travelling ambassador because of his sport's symbiotic link with tobacco, but there are no hard feelings, at least nothing that would stop Mr Ahern availing of a yet another subliminal association with a high profile performer. Think Bertie. Think Sport. Think politics. Think votes. 
