sport football
{  
    January 20 2011 10:14 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/temp/stars-of-the-past-27720678.html }
PAUL LYNCH (SHAMROCKS) Paul Lynch, from St. Aidan's Villas, was for many years a skilful, brainy and fast-moving forward for both his club and county. His play at all times was close to perfection and the clinical quality of his finishing was second to none. Paul always played with flair and style and put great zest into his every movement. He was expertly positioned at all times around the area that was entrusted to him and with his withering accuracy caused endless problems for the opposition. He rarely, if ever, missed a chance to score and was renowned for his brilliant overhead striking and his intelligent positional play. Paul had skill, pace, technical excellence and classy touches in abundance. His fast footwork, superb ball control and his deadly marksmanship endeared him to every G.A.A. follower in the county. He was born in 1938 and was educated at Enniscorthy C.B.S. His boyhood hero was the late Padge Kehoe. His medal collection was as follows: with Wexford - one Leinster Junior hurling in 1959, one Leinster medal and one All-Ireland Intermediate hurling medal in 1961, one All-Ireland Senior hurling in 1968 and three Leinster Senior hurling in 1962, 1965 and 1968. He also won a National hurling league in 1966-'67 and two Walsh Cup medals in 1965 and 1967. With his club, Shamrocks, he won a Co. Junior hurling medal in 1959, a Co. Intermediate hurling medal in 1960 and a Co. Senior hurling medal in 1969. He played Senior hurling with Wexford from 1962 to 1969. He played with St. Aidan's in 1963 and 1964. He played Junior hurling with the Starlights in 1956 and Senior football with the 'Stars' in 1963, losing the Co. final to Ballyhogue. He came on as a substitute versus Rathnure in the 1972 Co. Senior hurling final. The four hurlers he found most difficult to master at club level were Teddy O'Connor and Dan Quigley (Rathnure), Paddy Kavanagh (Buffers Alley) and the late Billy Ryan (Hollow Rangers). The best dual player he has seen was the late Harry O'Connor. His brother, Mickey Lynch, received a Seana Ghael award in 2008. ***** TOMMY TYRRELL (ST. PATRICK'S) For almost two and a half decades, Tommy Tyrrell had been a brilliant and stonewall goalie. He manned his position between the posts with great calmness, confidence and composure. He was hawk-like in his vision, sure-footed in his movements, safe and reliable in his handling and agile and fearless in every turn and twist in the space that was entrusted to him. Tommy was born in 1933 and in his young days resided in the Glen Lane, just outside Camolin village. He was educated at Clologue N.S. and later at Camolin N.S. His boyhood hero was the late Kevin Matthews, the Dublin star of the late '40s and '50s. He played his under-age hurling with Camolin and Ferns. The two greatest hurlers he has ever seen were the late Pat Stakelum (Tipperary) and the late Jimmy Langton (Kilkenny). In Wexford, Tim Flood was a superstar. Tommy started playing Junior hurling with Camolin in 1952 and continued to play with them until he moved over to Ferns in 1958. With the latter he won a Co. Junior hurling medal in the same year and was a substitute goalie when Ferns won the Co. Intermediate hurling title, also in 1958. With Avoca in 1960 he won another Co. Junior hurling medal when they won the Wicklow title, defeating Newtownmountkennedy in the final. Tommy finished up his hurling career playing Senior for the Geraldines in Arklow. He won a Leinster Junior hurling medal with Wicklow in 1965. He was substitute goalie for the Wexford Junior hurling team in 1955. The four Camolin players that impressed him most were Dan Kenny, Mike Doyle, the late Park O'Sullivan, and the late Edward Collier. One of Tommy's finest hours in his playing career was with Ferns versus Hollow Rangers in the 1958 Co. Junior hurling semi-final. Playing in goal, he made many brilliant saves, some of which the great Tony Reddan (Tipperary) would have been proud of. He played in goal for the Gorey District in the championship on several occasions. Oliver Gough was the best Minor hurler he has seen. One of the best dual players he has seen in Wexford was Phil Wilson (Ballyhogue). ***** EDDIE KELLY (ST. DYMPNA'S, ENNISCORTHY) For wholehearted endeavour, great determination, unlimited courage and ability in abundance, they came no better than Eddie Kelly, a most unassuming and likeable guy from Enniscorthy town. From 1958 until 1969 he graced the Gaelic fields of the county and further afield with his magnificent splendour in both hurling and football. His marking was glue-like, his approach to every game was heartwarming and his determination in both codes shone like a beacon. Eddie played every game with venomous intensity and his uncanny vision and phenomenal strength made him a star elite in his duties as a brilliant defender. He was most unlucky in Co. finals, losing nine in all - five Co. Senior football in 1959, 1960, 1961, 1962 and 1963, one Junior football in 1957, two Minor football in 1955 with Starlights and in 1957 with Emmets, and Juvenile hurling with St. Aidan's in 1955. On the plus side his medal collection was praiseworthy - two All-Ireland Senior hurling medals with Wexford in 1960 as a substitute and in 1968, three Leinster Senior hurling in 1960, 1965 and 1968, the first two as a substitute, one Leinster Junior football medal in 1963, three Walsh Cup medals in 1965, 1967 and 1968. At club level he won two Co. Senior hurling medals with St. Aidan's in 1958 and 1959, one Co. Junior football medal with St. Dympna's in 1958 and one Juvenile medal with the Starlights in 1955. He played Senior hurling with Wexford from 1958 to 1969, missing out in 1962 because of injury. His last outing with the Co. Senior hurling team was versus Limerick in the 1968-'69 National hurling league semi-final. With the Wexford footballers he played Junior in 1959 and 1963 and Senior from 1959 to 1966. With St. Aidan's in Senior hurling he played with them from 1958 to 1969 and with a number of clubs in football from 1958 to 1968. When playing club hurling the four players he found most difficult to master were Dick Murphy (Faythe Harriers), the late Mick Bennett (Oylegate-Glenbrien), Tommy Hawkins (Ferns) and Marks Redmond (Shamrocks). ***** OLIVER McGRATH (FAYTHE HARRIERS) Oliver McGrath was for a decade a true hurling genius. He glided easily over the footprints of former hurling greats and in terms of technique, ability, skill and craft, he could be described as a genuine hurling article. Watching him in action was uplifting, beautiful and scintillating. He tamed and trained the sliothar to do his bidding, and if one was to hand him a handle of a brush to hurl with he would still perform with grandeur and skill. Oliver had a certain magic about him which Wexford followers adored. He could fasten on to a ball, control it and with his superb turn of speed and ball control could turn his every move into a score. He was born in 1938 and was educated at Wexford C.B.S. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. Oliver's first game with the Wexford Senior hurling team was versus Cork in February, 1957, and his last game for the Model County was also versus Cork in a Gold Medal tournament in early 1968. He played at adult level with the Faythe Harriers from 1956 to 1973. He played with the Wexford Minor hurling teams in 1955 and 1956. HIs medal collection was most impressive. With Wexford he won one All-Ireland Senior hurling medal in 1960, three Leinster Senior hurling medals in 1960, 1962 and 1965, one Leinster Junior hurling medal in 1957, one National League in 1958 and one Railway Cup medal in 1962. With the Faythe Harriers he won the following medals - three Co. Senior hurling in 1960, 1962 and 1965, two Co. Senior football in 1959 and 1960, one Co. Intermediate hurling in 1956, three Co. Minor hurling in 1954, 1955 and 1956, one Co. Juvenile hurling in 1954, one Co. Juvenile football medal with Sarsfields in 1953 and a Leinster club medal in the early '60s. The three players he found most difficult to elude at club level were the late Peter Barron (Rathnure), Paddy Sullivan (Shamrocks) and Pat Kehoe (Geraldine O'Hanrahans). In Minor hurling with the Harriers over three years he scored 35 goals and 65 points. ***** EDDIE McGUIRE (ST. MARTIN'S) From his first game in 1958 playing in goal for St. Martin's, in both hurling and football, until his last game ten years later, Eddie McGuire manned his position with consistency and courage. He was an excellent custodian in both codes and was blessed with many fine qualities. Eddie was a goalie you could be assured not to let his side down - he was alert, agile with an eagle eye and had masterly balance. He was born in 1938 and was educated at Piercestown N.S. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. Although he was 20 years of age before he first pulled on a St. Martin's jersey, nevertheless, he always had a keen interest in the club during his under-age years. He won a Leinster Junior football medal with Wexford in 1963 as a substitute goalie. With St. Martin's he won a Co. Intermediate hurling medal in 1964 when his side overcame Gorey Wolfe Tones in the final. The four forwards he selects as the most elusive and lethal in their finishing during his club football career were Nicky Newport (St. Fintan's), Frank Morris (Volunteers), the late Pete Crowley (Sarsfields), and the late Jack Berry (St. Anne's). The four St. Martin's footballers that impressed him most over the years were Liam Butler, Seamus Boggan, Phil Maddock and George O'Connor. The three greatest footballers he has seen were Mick O'Connell (Kerry), the late Mattie McDonagh (Galway) and Matt Connor (Offaly). In Wexford, Paddy Kehoe, Seán Turner and the late Willie Foley were masterclass. Joe Foley, George O'Connor and Phil Wilson were the three best dual players he has seen in Wexford. Eddie's finest game in the St. Martin's colours was versus Ballyhogue in round one of the 1958 Senior football championship. Apart from his number of superb saves during the game, including two penalty kicks, he kept a clean sheet. He was on the panel for the Wexford Senior football team on a few occasions in the '60s. In 1971, he played in goal for St. Martin's when they lost the Co. Junior football 'B' final to Castletown. His son, Eamon, also played with St. Martin's. Eddie was the St. Martin's regular goalie in hurling for many years. ***** JIM DORAN (RATHGAROGUE-CUSHINSTOWN) Jim Doran from Gobbinstown, New Ross, came from a well-known hurling family of Rathgarogue fame. He was born in 1938 and was educated at the local Rathgarogue N.S. His boyhood hero was Paddy Kehoe. Jim started playing Junior hurling at 16 years of age with the club. CONTINUED OPPOSITE FROM OPPOSITE PAGE Once in 1954 he played Juvenile hurling and Junior football on the same day. He could adjust to any position with equal authority and was always confident and composed in every outing. He regularly played in a defensive role and at midfield. In 1960 he lined out at full-forward when Cushinstown lost the Co. Junior hurling final to Hollow Rangers. When playing in the back line he was most vigilant and tenacious and gave very little away. In the forward line he distributed the ball expertly to his colleagues. Two of his brothers, Tom and Paddy, were also excellent hurlers with the club for a number of years. His late father, John Doran, won Co. Senior hurling honours with Rathgarogue in 1912 and a Co. Junior hurling medal in the inaugural year for the competition (1903). One of Jim's finest hours playing club hurling was versus Adamstown in the 1961 New Ross District Junior hurling semi-final. Playing at midfield, he dominated his area and his display was close to perfection. His unquenchable spirit and enthusiasm endeared him to friend and foe alike. Jim had great loyalty and commitment for his club and he loved his hurling and enjoyed every moment. The four Rathgarogue-Cushinstown hurlers that impressed him most over the years were the late Mick Hickey, the late Simmy Cleary, Tom Murphy and Oliver Doyle. The four most difficult opponents he encountered in his hurling career were Bobby English (St. Abban's, Adamstown), the late Seán Myers (Gusserane), Con Donnelly (Clongeen) and John Ryan (Camross). The two greatest hurlers he has ever seen were Frank Cummins (Kilkenny) and the late Tom Cheasty (Waterford). Phil Wilson and Paddy Kehoe were the two best dual players he has seen in Wexford. ***** PADDY CARRIE (GOREY BLUES) When Paddy Carrie arrived in Gorey in early 1957 as a member of the Garda Siochána, he was immediately snapped up by the Gorey Blues football club to play with them in the Gorey District Junior football championship of that year. He continued to play with them until 1959 when he was transferred to Wexford town. With the Gorey Blues he assisted them to win two District titles in 1958 and 1959. In the former year they lost the Co. semi-final to St. Dympna's and in the latter year they lost the Co. final to the Sarsfields. When he moved to Wexford he played with the Sarsfields at Senior level in 1960 and then with the Faythe Harriers in 1961. In 1962 he was again transferred, this time to Rosslare, and in 1963 and 1964 he lined out with the St. Mary's in the District championship. Shortly after he retired from football. He was born in 1934 and was educated at Drumconrath N.S. in Co. Meath and at De La Salle Secondary School in Ardee, Co. Louth. Paddy played Minor football with Meath in 1950, 1951 and 1952 and Minor club with Dee Rangers in Meath from 1949 to 1952. He was a member of the Meath Senior football panel in the mid '50s. He played most of his football at centre half-back or at full-forward. When playing at No. 6 his anticipation and positional play were never seen to better advantage and when playing full-forward he displayed all the artistry and economy of movement that was a feature of his play. He played with the Wexford Junior football team in 1959 which lost the Leinster semi-final to Dublin. His boyhood hero was the late John Joe O'Reilly (Cavan). The two best footballers he has seen were Mick O'Connell (Kerry) and Joe Lennon (Down). The four Gorey Blues footballers that impressed him most were Bill Owley, Michael ' Foxy' Breen, Pa Grannell and Malachy Travers. One of the best dual players he has seen in Wexford was John Kennedy (Faythe Harriers). The players that stood out as tops while he as stationed in Co. Wexford were Seán Turner, the late Willie Foley, the late Seamus Keevans and Freddie Cudlipp. Paddy made many friends in the Model county during his period here from 1957 to 1966. ***** BRIAN KENNY (ST. AIDAN'S, ENNISCORTHY) From 1961 to 1965, Brian Kenny was an ever-present defender for the St. Aidan's hurling club in Enniscorthy. In 1960, he arrived in the Cathedral town as a member of the Garda Síochána and immediately was snapped up by the former champions and for the next five years was a resolute, determined and unyielding corner-back with the club. He had learned most of his hurling skills with his home club, Carrick Davins, in Tipperary. During his period with St. Aidan's he played most of his games in the corner-back position. Brian was a defender of great tenacity and won the ball consistently in his tussles with most corner-forwards that opposed him. He played every game with gusto and vigour and could be classed as one of the tightest markers in club hurling in the '60s. In 1966, he returned to play in Tipperary with the Carrick Davins and assisted them to win the Co. Senior hurling titles in 1966 and 1967 and a Munster club in 1967. He was born in 1938 and was educated at Carrick-on-Suir N.S. His boyhood hero was the late Christy Ring. In Tipperary, the three greatest hurlers he has seen were the late Pat Stakelum, Mick Roche and Jimmy Doyle. When playing club hurling in Wexford, the four players he found most difficult to subdue were the late Martin Codd (Rathnure), Marks Redmond (Shamrocks), Joe Foley (Oylegate-Glenbrien) and Martin Buggy (Faythe Harriers). The four St. Aidan's hurlers that impressed him most during his period with them were the late Nick O'Donnell, the late Padge Kehoe, Paul Lynch and Ted Morrissey. In Wexford, the hurlers that stood out as exceptional were the late Bobby Rackard and Tim Flood of the 1950 era and in later years, Mick Jacob and Tony Doran. The two best dual players he has seen in Wexford were the late Harry O'Connor and Phil Wilson. His late father, P.J., played football for Tipperary and his brother, Seamus, played hurling for the county. Brian won a National league with Tipperary in 1968 and was a substitute on the Tipperary team which lost the 1968 All-Ireland Senior hurling final to Wexford. He was a member of the St. Aidan's Senior hurling team which lost the 1961 Co. final. ***** TOM NEVILLE (GERALDINE O'HANRAHANS) When Tom Neville was selected at right corner-back versus Dublin in the 1960 Leinster Senior hurling semi-final, few people predicted that over the next 12 years or so he would become one of the best and greatest corner-backs that the game of hurling has seen. Tomás as he is known in his former home village, Fethard-on-Sea, was a master tactician and had the ability to read every situation of danger around his area and his commanding and inspirational presence was a joy to behold. Tom epitomised all that is splendid and constructive in the line of defensive play. He played on and tamed the best corner-forwards in the land during a brilliant career. His skill and ability in lifting, controlling and striking the ball were absolutely masterclass and he was always positioned in the right place at the right time. Tom was born in 1939 and was educated at Poulfur N.S. and St. Peter's College. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. He played Minor hurling and football for Wexford in 1957. He played Senior hurling for Wexford from 1960 to 1972, Senior football for the county from 1964 to 1967, and also Junior football in 1963. His collection of medals was praiseworthy. With Wexford - two All-Ireland Senior hurling in 1960 and 1968, five Leinster Senior hurling in 1960, 1962, 1965, 1968 and 1970, one National hurling league medal in 1966-'67, one Leinster Junior football in 1963, three Railway Cup medals in 1964, 1965 and 1967. He also played with Leinster in 1961, 1963 and 1966. At club level with the Geraldine O'Hanrahans he won a Co. Junior football medal in 1963, Senior hurling medal in 1966 and an Intermediate hurling medal in 1975. He played with the Geraldine O'Hanrahans from 1960 until 1976. With St. Mogue's (Fethard) he played in 1957 and 1958 and again in 1977 and 1978. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe. Tom was captain of the Wexford Senior hurling team which lost the 1965 All-Ireland final to Tipperary. When playing inter-co.unty hurling the two most difficult opponents he encountered were Jimmy Smith (Clare) and the late Christy Ring (Cork). ***** LARRY BYRNE (STARLIGHTS) For a decade or more, Larry Byrne, from Island Road in Enniscorthy, was an outstanding dual player with unlimited energy and ability. He was born in 1938 and was educated at Enniscorthy C.B.S. and the Enniscorthy V.S. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. In his playing days, in both codes, he shipped a lot of punishment but he never stood back from anyone and when given free expression from his midfield role he did so in a stunning manner. Larry was an exceptionally talented and gifted performer in both hurling and football. He always played with a calculated assurance and used his great vision to good effect for his team. Larry had excellent balance and could always make space for himself no matter how close he was marked by his opponent. He won a Co. Junior hurling medal with the Shamrocks in 1959, a Co. Intermediate hurling medal with the club in 1960 and two Co. Senior hurling medals when Shamrocks won in 1964 and 1969. He was captain and a selector when they won in 1964. He won Leinster and All-Ireland hurling medals with Wexford in 1961 when they captured the Intermediate title with victory versus London in Wexford Park. The four Starlights footballers that impressed him most over the years were Ted Morrissey, Ed Doran, the late Jim Sullivan, and the late Harry O'Connor. He played football with the Starlights from 1959 to 1971. His last game was when the Stars lost the Co. Junior football final to St. Joseph's (Wexford) in 1971. He was a member of the Starlights Senior football teams which lost Co. finals in 1961, 1963 and 1964. He was captain in 1961. He finished up his hurling career with the Shamrocks Seniors in 1970 but continued to play Intermediate with them until 1974. He played a number of games for both the Wexford Senior hurling and Senior football teams in the early '60s. The four most difficult opponents he encountered in his playing days in football were the late Pete Crowley (Sarsfields), Phil Wilson (Ballyhogue), Malachi Kane (Castletown) and Mick Foley (Ballyhogue). Phil Wilson was the best dual player he has seen in Wexford. CONTINUED OVERLEAF TOM CLEARY (NA FIANNA AND PARNELLS) Tom Cleary was one of the game's most consistent performers over a period of 20 years at both hurling and football. He played the majority of his games at midfield or in the half-forward line. His workrate was phenomenal and with his non-stop running, his clever and crafty play proved a handful for many opponents in his career. He played both games with pace and gusto, and in hurling he was adapt at striking the ball left or right. He roamed all over the field gaining possession and making clever use of the ball with well-placed distribution. He started his Junior hurling career with the Parnells in Wexford town and his Junior football with the Blue and Whites. In 1961, he moved to play his hurling with Na Fianna and his football with the Dan O'Connells. Tom had good success with his new clubs, winning District hurling honours in 1964, 1965 and 1967, and also District honours in football in 1967, 1968, 1974 and 1976. He was born in 1936 and was educated at Wexford C.B.S. He played Juvenile and Minor football with the Blue and Whites in the early '50s. He won a Co. Junior football medal with the Dan O'Connells in 1976 as a substitute. He played Junior football for Wexford and Senior football on a number of occasions in the '60s. The four Na Fianna hurlers that impressed him most were Willie Bierney, Lionel Rochford, Tom Kehoe and Rory Kelly. The four Crowley brothers were the Parnells' star players. Willie Bierney was the best under-age hurler he has seen in Wexford. One of Tom's finest hours playing with Na Fianna was versus Adamstown in the 1967 Co. Junior hurling semi-final. Playing midfield he was in dazzling form, winning possession repeatedly and invariably placing every ball to the best advantage for his forwards. The four hurlers he found most difficult to subdue in his career were Jimmy Finn (St. Fintan's), Geoff Barry (St. Anne's), Billy Kelly (Shelmaliers) and Phil Maddock (St. Martin's). The two greatest hurlers he has seen were Jimmy Doyle (Tipperary) and Eddie Keher (Kilkenny). The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Phil Wilson. ***** BOBBY KEARNS (OUR LADY'S ISLAND) Bobby Kearns was one of the most gifted dual players to play for Our Ladys Island G.A.A. club. He had tremendous speed, superb ball control, a very shrewd brain and skill in abundance. He had complete calmness and confidence in his ability and he always seemed to have time and space to get in his shots at goal. No matter how close his marker patrolled him, Bobby in a flash was gone to get in his hit. He was a clever player with pace, flair and poise, and even on days when conditions were deplorable he still mastered his skills with magnificent grandeur. The testimony of his ability as a dual player was borne out in 1963 when he assisted Wexford to win Leinster honours in Junior football and Intermediate hurling. Bobby was born in 1940 and was educated at Kilrane N.S. and Wexford C.B.S. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. He played Juvenile hurling and football with St. Mary's (Rosslare) in 1955 and 1956, Minor hurling with St. Martin's in 1957 and Minor football with the Sarsfields in 1958. He played both codes for Our Lady's Island from 1957 to 1972. He played Senior football for Wexford on a few occasions in the '60s. The four Our Lady's Island footballers that impressed him most over the years were Seán Turner, Billy Devereux, Paddy Scallan and Ray Doyle, and in hurling Donal Doyle, goalie, and Jackie O'Brien. In 1962, he was a member of the Our Lady's Island team which won the Wexford Junior hurling championship with victory versus OulartThe Ballagh by 3-7 to 3-3 in the final. Bobby also played Junior football for Wexford in 1962, losing the Leinster final to Meath. The four most formidable opponents he encountered playing club football were Geoff Barry (St. Anne's), Pascal Whitmore (Dan O'Connells), Nicky Newport (St. Fintan's) and Peter Doyle (Kilmore). The best footballers he has seen were Mick O'Connell, the late Seán Purcell and in later years Colm Cooper and Peter Canavan. One of Bobby's finest hours at club level was in 1961 versus Volunteers in the Wexford District Junior football semi-final. At midfield he was superb, using his great vision and superior speed to win most of the exchanges. Phil Wilson was one of the best dual players he has seen in Wexford. ***** PADDY WHITTY (ADAMSTOWN) From 1958 to 1974, Paddy Whitty from Templenacrow in the Adamstown parish was an elusive, exciting and energetic forward for his club, St. Abban's. In most games in the Junior hurling championships he proved a thorn to most defenders that he came in contact with. From early in his career he showed immense potential as a hurling star of the future. He was gifted with all the ingredients of a skilled performer with his speed, ball control, alertness and excellent vision. Even allowing for the fact that he was opposed by some of the best defenders in the Junior grade, Paddy had his spell of dominance over most of them. He was born in 1937 and was educated at Raheen N.S. His boyhood hero was the late John Foley (Adamstown). He played Juvenile hurling with the Ballinvary Emmets and Minor hurling with Cloughbawn. He won a Co. Junior hurling medal with Adamstown in 1970 and a Co. Intermediate hurling medal in the following year with the club. One of his best games playing with St. Abban's was versus Cushinstown in the 1961 New Ross District Junior hurling semi-final. Paddy, playing at right half-forward, gave an exhibition of classical forward play with his control, crisp striking and his intelligent manoeuvring marking him out as the star of the day. The four Adamstown hurlers that impressed him most over the years were Jimmy Galway, Bobby Donovan (R.I.P.), Willie Bradley and Bobby English. When playing in the club championships the four players he found most difficult to master were the late Mick Collins (Rapparees), Paddy Kavanagh (Buffers Alley), Mick Culleton (Gusserane) and the late Paddy Doyle (Cushinstown). The two greatest hurlers he has ever seen were the late Bobby Rackard as a defender and the late Christy Ring as a forward. In Wexford, the late Padge Kehoe and Tim Flood were the two best club players he has seen. The two best dual players he has seen in Wexford over the years were Paddy Kehoe and Phil Wilson. Two of Paddy's sons, Patrick and Seán, are brilliant presentday players with the Adamstown club. ***** LIAM WALSH (DAN O'CONNELLS) Liam was born in 1938 and now resides at Wolfe Tone Villas in Wexford town. His eldest son, Billy, is the well-known and successful Irish boxing team coach. During his playing career, Liam was a most versatile and competitive dual player with an unlimited amount of energy and ability. He started his career in the Junior football grade with the Blue and Whites in the late '50s. Then in the early '60s he moved his allegiance to the Dan O'Connells, a club he continued to play with for 14 years, usually in his favourite left halfback position. He liked to move forward as an attacking wing halfback, but nevertheless, he never left any gaps in his defensive duties. His style of play was quick, decisive and commanding and he always marked his opponents effectively. He played his under-age football with the Blue and Whites and hurling with the Faythe Harriers. With the Faythe Harriers he won the following - one Co. Senior hurling medal in 1962 as a substitute, one Co. Special Junior hurling medal in 1965 and one Co. Minor hurling medal in 1956. With the Dan O'Connells he won a Co. Junior football medal in 1976. He played Intermediate hurling for Wexford in 1969 and with the Co. Junior football team also in 1969. He also was on the panel on a few occasions for the Wexford Senior footballers. His finest game with the Dan O'Connells was versus St. Mary's (Maudlintown) in the 1969 Loch Garman Silver Band Cup. Playing at left half-back, he was outstanding, with his energetic style and astute vision putting up a masterly defensive screen on his side of the field. The four Dan O'Connells footballers that impressed him most over the years were Pascal Whitmore, Jimmy Whelan, Ger Howlin Jnr. and Peter Doyle. Two of the greatest footballers he has seen were the late Seán Purcell (Galway) and Seán O'Neill (Down). In Wexford, Seán Turner and the late Pete Crowley, were two of his favourites. When playing with the 'Danno's' the four players he found most difficult to subdue were the late Pete Crowley (Sarsfields), Vincie Staples (St. Martin's), Oliver McGrath (Faythe Harriers) and Bobby Kearns (Our Lady's Island). His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. ***** BOBBY ENGLISH (ADAMSTOWN) There is little need to outline to any Gael in the county the contribution that Bobby English has made to the cause of the Adamstown St. Abban's hurling club. His knowledge, vision, anticipation and ability made him a star elite. He was a player who pursued every ball with a zeal and determination that was breathtaking in its intensity and splendour. Bobby was comfortable on the ball in any position - No. 6, No. 8. or No. 11, with the latter his favourite. His wholehearted endeavour and his intelligent use of the ball were features which his followers were delighted to see. Bobby was a great sportsman and he loved his club and his hurling. He was born in 1937 and was educated at Newbawn N.S. and New Ross V.S. His boyhood hero was the late Jim Morrissey. He played Juvenile hurling with Adamstown from 1949 to 1953 and Minor hurling with the club from 1951 to 1955. Bobby played Junior hurling with the club from 1954 to 1967. His finest hour in the club colours was versus Shelmaliers in the 1961 Co. Junior hurling semi-final. Playing at centre half-back, he was positively brilliant. He covered superbly, read every movement by the opposition to perfection, cleared every ball intelligently and was most dependable. He gave a display that was most praiseworthy. The two greatest hurlers he has ever seen were Mick Roche (Tipperary) and Jimmy Doyle, also Tipperary. In Wexford, Bobby Rackard (R.I.P.) and Tim Flood were superb with his hero, the late Jim Morrissey, one of the best midfielders around. When playing in the New Ross District Junior hurling championship, the four hurlers he found most difficult to master were Oliver Doyle (RathgarogueCushinstown), the late Seán Myers (Gusserane), Jim Doran (RathgarogueCushinstown) and Paddy O'Reilly (Camross). The four Adamstown hurlers that impressed him most over the years were Bobby Donovan (R.I.P.), the late Jim Dillon, the late Tommy Stafford and the late Tom Crowe. The two best dual players he has seen in Wexford were Paddy Kehoe and Phil Wilson. Bobby's brother, Paddy, also played a number of years with the Adamstown club. In the '60s he got a number of trials for the Wexford Intermediate hurling teams. ***** PHIL WILSON (BALLYHOGUE) Phil Wilson was, without doubt, one of the true greats in Wexford, in both hurling and football. For more than a decade his performances as a dual player have been indelibly inscribed in the book of epic achievements. Whenever star players are discussed the name of Phil Wilson crops up repeatedly. His blinding speed, his uncanny control of the ball, his vision, his stamina and balance, rank him as one of the finest all-rounders we have seen here in Wexford. Phil was a player of great heart, with lightning reflexes and razorsharp alacrity. On many occasions his magnificent upfield sallies in both codes left a trail of scattered bodies in his wake, which was indicative of his supremacy. Phil strode the field like a colossus and chased every ball as if it was his own private property. He was born in 1939 and was educated at Ballyhogue N.S. His boyhood hero was the late Pat Stakelum (Tipperary). Phil played with the Wexford Senior hurling team from 1961 to 1974 and Senior football for Wexford from 1956 to 1970. He played Minor hurling and football for Wexford in 1956 and 1957. His collection of medals speaks volumes. With Wexford - one All-Ireland Senior hurling in 1968, four Leinster Senior hurling in 1962, 1965, 1968 and 1970, two National League in 1967 and 1973, four Railway Cup medals in 1964, 1965, 1967 and 1972, and one Leinster Intermediate hurling in 1965. With Ballyhogue - five Co. Senior football medals in 1962, 1963, 1964, 1971 and 1972, two Intermediate hurling in 1966 and 1972, two Junior hurling in 1965 and 1971, two Co. Senior hurling medals with OylegateGlenbrien in 1963 and the Rapparees in 1978, and one Co. Intermediate football with Starlights in 1977. With London he won an All-Ireland Junior hurling medal in 1960. One of his finest hours in the Ballyhogue football colours was versus Sarsfields in the 1962 Co. Senior final. Phil also coached many clubs to success in the county. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe. The biggest thrill of his youth was the 1954 All-Ireland Senior hurling final between Cork and Wexford. ***** PADDY QUINN (HORESWOOD) For a decade or more Paddy Quinn was an outstanding player with the Horeswood hurling club. He figured prominently with the club in many of their games during that period, playing usually at centre halfback or centre half-forward. In a defensive role his sweeping ground clearances, his crisp overhead striking and his closing down on opponents' efforts to score were features of his play when in the No. 6 jersey. When operating at centre half-forward his all-round workrate and his ability to place good ball to his fellow forwards were hallmarks of a dashing No. 11. CONTINUED ON OPPOSITE PAGE Paddy was born in 1941 was educated at Horeswood N.S. and New Ross C.B.S. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. He played Juvenile hurling for three years, winning a Co. medal with St. Patrick's (Aclare) in 1958. He also played Minor hurling with Horeswood in 1958 and 1959. With Horeswood at adult level he played with them from 1959 to 1970. In his career he played on many fine hurlers and selects the following four as the most difficult he encountered - Paul Lynch (Shamrocks) and Oliver McGrath (Faythe Harriers) as a back, and when in the forwards he met stiff opposition from Ned Colfer (Geraldine O'Hanrahans) and Dan Quigley (Rathnure). One of his finest hours playing with Horeswood was in the 1961 Co. Intermediate hurling final replay win versus Cloughbawn. At half-back he was clever, decisive and trustworthy. His superb judgement and his vision allowed him to have the advantage over his opponent. He started out with a game plan and never deviated from it. The four Horeswood hurlers that impressed him most during his period with them were Paddy Whitty, Dick Shannon, Pat Kennedy and Ted Wallace. The two greatest hurling forwards he has seen were the late Christy Ring and D.J. Carey. In Wexford they came none better than the late Bobby Rackard and Tim Flood. With his Juvenile medal he also won a Co. Intermediate hurling medal in 1961. His big disappointment was losing the 1963 Co. Senior hurling final to Oylegate-Glenbrien united with Ballyhogue. He played a few games for the Wexford Senior hurling team including a game versus Cork at Wembley in the '60s. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe who was brilliant at playing both games. ***** TOM MURPHY (BANNOW-BALLYMITTTY) Tom Murphy from Kilcaven, near Wellingtonbridge, was born in 1936 and was educated at Ballymitty N.S. His boyhood hero was the late Bill 'Spider' Kelly. He played Minor football and Minor hurling in 1954. He made his debut with the Bannow-Ballymitty Junior football team also in 1954. In 1955 he moved to the Corah Ramblers and in 1956 he won his first medal when his team captured the Co. Junior football title with victory versus Cloughbawn in the final. Unfortunately for Tom, he was unable to play in the final because of an illness. He continued to play Junior with Bannow-Ballymitty during the early '60s, usually at right corner-back. In 1967 he was a member of the St. Mary's (Bannow) team which lost the Co. Junior football final to Kilanerin. He retired from the game in 1972. After his playing days were over he continued to work energetically with the club in an official capacity, looking after the underage players. He was also a selector on many occasions with the adult side of things. One could be sure that when needed, Tom would be always available. His love of Gaelic games could never be questioned. In his lifetime he has attended 92 All-Ireland Senior hurling and football finals starting in 1955, Wexford versus Galway. He was 19 years on the Fixtures committee for the Co. Board and ten years Chairman of the New Ross District Fixtures committee. He was a selector for the Wexford Junior team for four years in the '80s. He was acknowledged by the New Ross District with the presentation of a plaque a couple of years ago for his loyal and dedicated service over many years. The four players from the club that he selects as the best he has seen playing football in his days were the late Aidan McCormack, Watty French, Francis Cullen and the late Peter Tobin. The four players Tom found most difficult to subdue in his playing days were Paddy Kelly (Clongeen), Pat Cullen (Kilanerin), Shay Foley (St. James') and Willie Culleton (Gusserane). One of his best games was versus Clongeen in the 1967 New Ross District final. At right corner-back he was prepared to harass, hound and fight for every ball and put in a great performance for the full game. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Phil Wilson. The greatest footballer he has seen was Mick O'Connell. He was Chairman of the club in 1996. ***** PADDY FORDE (KILANERIN) Paddy Forde was born in 1939 and was educated at Ballyfad N.S. His boyhood hero was the late Bobby Rackard. He played his first competitive game for Liam Mellows (Coolgreany) in 1957 when they lost the Gorey District Minor football to Ferns. In 1959 he played both hurling and football for Kilanerin in the Gorey District Junior championships. He continued to play regularly in both codes until the end of the '60s. He won a Co. Junior football medal with Kilanerin in 1967 as a substitute when they defeated St. Mary's (Bannow) in the final. It made up for the disappointment of losing the 1963 final to the Geraldine O'Hanrahans (New Ross). Paddy played most of his football at right cornerback where his strong and determined play repulsed many raids by the opposing teams. He was a man of vision, courage and conviction and never dropped his guard even when the results were not going in his favour. He marked tightly and cleared with direction and never allowed his opponent the freedom to get any easy scores. The four Kilanerin footballers that impressed him most during his playing days were Mick D'Arcy, Frank D'Arcy, Paddy Hughes and Pat Hughes. In later years his son, Matty, became a big star both with the Kilanerin club and the Wexford Co. team. He was very proud of what Matty has achieved over the past number of years on the football fields. When playing with Kilanerin in the Gorey District the four players he found most difficult to master were Dan Kennedy (Kilrush), Thompson Byrne (Castletown), Liam Murphy (Buffers Alley) and Peadar Murphy (Ferns). The two greatest footballers he has ever seen were the late Seán Purcell (Galway) and Seán Murphy (Kerry). In later years Colm Cooper (Kerry) and Seán Cavanagh (Tyrone) are masterclass. In Wexford, apart from Matty Forde, he was always impressed by Colm Morris and Redmond Barry. In Castletown, the late Andy Merrigan and Freddie Cudlipp were brilliant players some years ago. In his games of hurling the player he found most difficult to subdue was Tommy Whitty (St. Brendan's, Craanford). The two best dual players he has seen in Wexford were Phil Wilson and Oliver Cullen. His two sons, Pat and Tom, also played football for their club. ***** TONY WICKHAM (DAVIDSTOWN-C'CUDDY) When in 1961 Davidstown-Courtnacuddy were looking for someone to fill in as their goalie, they called on Tony Wickham to be their No. 1. The judgement and wisdom of the men who made that decision was fully justified as Tony became a star performer for the remainder of his career. He had played in goal for the club, then named St. Bennan's, in 1957 but fell out of favour until he was recalled in 1961. He was the essence of reliability and dependability and was fearless in protecting his goal area. Tony always remained calm and composed in his line of duty and sure-footed and selfassured in his movements. He had a relaxing way about him which gave great confidence to the men in front of him. He was born in 1939 and was educated at Enniscorthy C.B.S. His boyhood hero was the late Christy Ring. He played Juvenile hurling with St. Bennan's (Davidstown) and Minor hurling with the same club. In 1956 he played Minor football for Ballyhogue, assisting them to reach the Co. final only to lose out to the Sarsfields after a replay. He was also an elusive and clever footballer when playing with Davidstown-Courtnacuddy, usually in a forward position. One of Tony's finest games playing with his club in hurling was versus the Shelmaliers in the 1961 Co. Junior hurling final second replay. He played a big part in his team winning by 5-8 to 4-2, making at least two brilliant saves, with the striker of the ball almost on the goal-line on both occasions. He also won a Co. Intermediate hurling medal in 1963 when his side defeated Buffers Alley in the final. The four Davidstown-Courtnacuddy hurlers that impressed him most during the period he was with them were Liam Kehoe, Jimmy Nolan, Larry Delaney and Tom Stafford. When playing in goal he faced some lethal forwards and selects Tony Doran (Buffers Alley), the late Padge Kehoe (St. Aidan's,) and Marks Redmond (Shamrocks) as the most dangerous when around the goal area. Two of the greatest hurling forwards he has seen were the late Christy Ring, and Henry Shefflin. On the great Wexford team of the '50s he selects the late Bobby Rackard, Ned Wheeler and the late Padge Kehoe as his favourites. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Phil Wilson. Two of his brothers, Michael and Jimmy, also played Gaelic games at different levels. One of the best games of hurling he has seen was Rathnure versus St. Aidan's in the 1955 Co. Senior final. Tony also played in goal when Davidstown united with Ballyhogue. ***** HARRY HORE (ST. MARY'S, MAUDLINTOWN) Harry Hore was born in 1939 and was educated at Wexford C.B.S. His boyhood hero was the late Bobby Rackard. He started his career in 1955 in the Juvenile grade playing football with the Sarsfields, and hurling with the Faythe Harriers. He won a Co. medal with the latter in 1955, defeating St. Aidan's in the Juvenile hurling final. He had a great run in the Minor football grade, winning three Co. titles with the Sarsfields in 1955, 1956 and 1957, an achievement that only a few individuals can boast of. With the Sarsfields so strong in their panel of selection, Harry decided to throw in his lot with St. Mary's (Maudlintown) in 1959 and continued to play with them at Junior level until the mid '60s. He was also their club Secretary for five years. Harry was a livewire forward with a great turn of speed, was most elusive and enterprising and was very accurate in his shooting. He had a natural ability, great vision and had a brilliant attitude. He loved his football and was a great sportsman, playing the ball at all times and was never intimidated by any opponent. Although he retired from the playing side of football, he never lost interest in the sport and turned up for many of the games every weekend in Wexford Park. The four St. Mary's (Maudlintown) players that impressed him most over the years were Peter 'Tapper' Doyle, John Creane, Ger Flood and the late Eddie O'Connor. The four players he found most difficult to elude when playing in the Wexford District championships were the late John Pender (Kilmore), Con Malone (Dan O'Connells), Peter Doyle (Kilmore) and John Stewart (Our Lady's Island). The two greatest footballers he has ever seen were Mick O'Connell and Jack O'Shea, and in later years Colm Cooper. In Wexford, the late Willie Goodison, Fr. Rory Deane and Matty Forde were superstars. One of Harry's finest hours was versus Ballyhogue in the 1956 Co. Minor football final drawn game while with Sarsfields. At left half-forward he was brilliant, as his elusiveness and clever play completely baffled the opposition and he scored a superb goal during the game. The two best dual players he has seen in Wexford were Paddy Kehoe and Phil Wilson. His two brothers, Donal and the late Frank, also played the game. P.J. DALY'S PROFILES WILL CONCLUDE NEXT WEEK 
