sport football
{  
    May 19 2015 12:14 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/sport/gaa/gaa-club-notes-31235096.html }
SARSFIELDS The Senior league game against St. Martin's was postponed at the opposition's request last weekend, while the Juniors conceded a walkover to Castletown. Hard luck to the Juvenile boys who were beaten by Glynn-Barntown on Monday, and to Ciarán Kirwan and the rest of the county Minors on their Leinster championship quarter-final loss to Dublin in Bellefield on Saturday Well done to the Under-12s who played two entertaining games at home to Buffers Alley on Tuesday, winning one and losing one. It was great to see the grand total of 33 players lining out and all getting plenty of playing time. Happy birthday to Lauren Murphy who turned 14 on Monday. Our Under-14 girls will be hosting Gaultier from Waterford in the national Féile from June 26-28, with the boys all set to welcome Castlebar Mitchels from Mayo. The club wishes to pass on its condolences to the Bridges family on the death of their mother. Ar dheis Dé go raibh a anam dílis. ST. IBAR'S/SHELMALIER Well done to the Under-14s who secured a deserved 3-3 to 2-6 draw with Oulart-The Ballagh in the championship in Hollymount on Monday. Congratulations to Lauren Murphy who has been selected for the county squad at this level, and to Andrea Fielding and Hannah Hearne who are on the county Under-13 development squad. The Under-16 game against Craanford-Monaseed has been postponed until after the exams. Two squad members, Mikaela Lanigan and Aoife Fielding, attended the first training session for the county Under-15 development squad. Well done to the Castlebridge Rackard League team, 4-7 to 1-0 winners over Bannow in Grantstown on Tuesday. Good luck to the Under-10s who will take part in a blitz in Rathangan on Friday, May 22, at 6.30 p.m. If you are interested in playing for the Juniors during the summer, contact Emma Carroll (085-1950091) or Catherine Roche (087-0533952). ST. MARY'S (ROSSLARE) The club lotto jackpot is €4,000. Last week's numbers were 2, 16, 20, 23 and bonus 35. There was one winner, Ultan O'Kane (Enniskerry), and two match three winners, Lynda Lacey and John Devlin. Membership for the coming year is now open for the club and gym. Please contact Niall McDonnell to renew or sign up (087-2672108). Niall will be at the complex on Fridays from 7-8 p.m. Fees for 2015 are: adult players €100, adult non-playing members €50, student €50, Under-14 to Under-18 €40, Under-8 to Under-12 €30, Under-6 €10. The gym is €60 for six months and €100 for twelve months, with a one-off payment of €10 for a fob. The gym is strictly Over-16s only. The club shop will be open on Tuesdays at 7.30 p.m. for anyone wishing to purchase hurls, helmets, grips, club gear or place orders. A race night will be held in Cushen's Pub, Tagoat, on Saturday, May 23, at 9 p.m. in aid of our Under-14 football Féile team. Horses are €10 to buy with betting on the night. All are welcome. Tickets are still available from Niall Mc Donnell (087-2672108) or any committee member for this month's Model County Development Draw! The draw takes place on  May 26. Just a quick reminder that booking for this year's Cúl Camp is now open online. This year it will be from July 20 to 24 in Tagoat and it really is a great week of fun. This year children get a back pack, a jersey and a half zip training top! Book today to avoid disappointment! Book online at www.kelloggsculcamps.gaa.ie Our Under-14 hurlers suffered a heavy defeat against Blackwater in Tagoat. We did manage to score four goals but could not bridge the gap. In the Junior hurling championship second round we beat Bannow-Ballymitty by 1-16 to 0-14. Under-16 football: Bann Gaels 4-4, Kilross Gaels 2-7. Under-12 football: St. Mary's (Maudlintown) 5-3, St. Mary's (Rosslare) 1-13. This was a great game of football by both sides with victory going to Maudlintown. Under-11 hurling: the St. Mary's boys had a narrow win over St. Anne's in Tagoat on Thursday. It was a pretty even affair with the home side just claiming the victory. Well done to all. Fixture: Saturday, May 23, 6 p.m., St. Patrick's Park, Enniscorthy, EEW Junior hurling championship round three, St. Mary's (Rosslare) v. Tara Rocks. Our sister club, St. Mary's camogie club, are running a clothes collection at the complex from now until September 1. If you are having a clear out we would love if you would consider giving your unwanted items to the ladies. The bags of clothes will be weighed and the money raised will go directly back into the camogie club for their players. The clothes will then be recycled. Date for your diary: July 18 - St. Mary's (Rosslare) will hold their first summer event, 'summer session', at the Complex in Tagoat with bands, a D.J., a barbeque and much more. It's an evening you won't want to miss. Over-18s only. Tickets (€10) are on sale next week. BLACKWATER The Under-12 footballers play Tuesday against Ballyhogue in Blackwater at 7.30 p.m. The Rackard League District final takes place on Wednesday, with the venue and time TBA. Our Junior hurlers play Shelmaliers in Blackwater on Tuesday, May 19, at 7.30 p.m. Our Junior hurlers also play on Friday in Páirc Charman at 7.30 p.m. The Under-14 hurlers play away to Taghmon on Wednesday at 7.30 p.m. in round three. Our Intermediate hurlers play Naomh Eanna in round three of the championship on Saturday, May 23, at 6 p.m. in Monamolin. For up to date news, views or pictures please like the club Facebook page 'St Brigids Blackwater GAA Club', follow the club on Twitter @Blackwatergaa or visit our website: www.blackwater.gaa.ie. Some businesses have availed of advertising spots on our website. With over 1,500 hits per month it's a great way to get your company known. For details contact 087-2846204 or check out our website. Can all team managers etc. please avail of our online pitch booking system on our website to avoid confusion with pitch availability. Users can only book training/matches two weeks in advance. If you do not need the full pitch please do not book it. It was a busy week on the camogie front. The Under-12s were unlucky to lose out to a strong Castletown outfit on Monday in Blackwater. On Wednesday, the Under-16s had a fantastic win over St. Martin's on a scoreline of 6-7 to 1-5. It was a strong all-round performance from the girls, who will be hard to beat if they continue to play like this. Our Under-12s played their first league match of the season on Friday in Oylegate and got off to a winning start, beating the home team by two points. Saturday saw the Under-10s compete in their first blitz this year (and indeed a first outing for many of the girls). The team put in some good performances, coming away with a draw and two losses in the end. However, the girls battled hard and have plenty of potential. Keep up the hard work girls, and thanks to everyone who has helped out with the team so far. The next 200 club members draw takes place at 9.30 p.m. on Monday, May 25, in the clubhouse.  FAYTHE HARRIERS Next weekend is another extremely busy one on the adult playing front, with all three of our adult teams in action once again. The action starts on Friday, May 22, when our Junior 'B' team entertain Blackwater in the second round of the District championship at 7.30 p.m. in Páirc Charman. After our opening day defeat against St. Anne's, we need to get two points on the board to get up and running. Next up is our Seniors who face off with old adversaries Buffers Alley in Bellefield on Saturday with a 3.30 p.m. throw-in. With one win and one defeat from our two games to date, another win is vital to keep us on the road to qualification. The unfortunate injuries to Richie Kehoe and Colm Heffernan makes our task that bit harder but we'll still be trying hard to overturn last year's one-point defeat to the same opposition.  Our Junior team attempt to hold on to their unbeaten record as we attempt to make it three wins from three when we take on Naomh Eanna in Farmleigh, Marshalstown on Sunday at 7.30 p.m.  Tuesday, May 26, sees the start of the Under-12 campaign when both the 'A' and 'B' teams entertain the Shelmaliers in Páirc Charman. The Under-10 and Under-8 competitions are also due to start in the near future, so please contact selectors for details.   For all updated news, under-age games, fixtures, results, lotto, photos etc. with the club, check out our website at www.faytheharriers.com or follow us on Twitter (@faytheharriers) or on our Facebook account for regular updates of club activity. For under-age training times, contact the following: Under-18, Tony Walsh (085-7645353); Under-16, Pat Henebery (087-2609958); Under-14, Peter Cassin (087-9872010); Under-12, Alan Corcoran (087-2529746) Under-10, Justin Browne (087-2190343); Under-8, Nicky Keeling (086-0832120). New members are always welcome to the club at any stage. Come along, meet new people, make new friends and learn the skills of our national game in a fun environment. The second monthly Model County draw will take place next week, so please ensure all monies are returned to Nicky Keeling in advance of the draw. Tickets are still available for the remaining two draws if anyone wishes to purchase one from the club.  Best wishes for a speedy recovery to Colm Heffernan, who suffered a serious knee injury in our recent Senior game versus Oulart, and to Brian Denton, who suffered a serious hand injury in a recent Junior championship game. The club would like to pass on its condolences to the Bridges family on the recent sad passing of Olive. May she rest in peace.  SHELMALIERS All roads lead to the Shelmalier G.A.A. grounds in Hollymount on Bank Holiday Monday, June 1, when the local G.A.A. club hold their very popular family fun field day with a large range of activities on offer to cater for the whole family. If it's children sports, treasure hunt, hurling skills you are looking for or would like to enjoy either a nice cup of tea and a bun or a juicy burger, Hollymount is the place to be. You can place your bets and enjoy the thrills and excitement of either sheep racing or duck racing. Due to popular demand this year's field day will include a special charity auction with a large range of items on sale at bargain prices with everything from children's toys to a large range of household items. More details next week but put the date - Monday, June 1 - in your diary. The third round of the hurling championship returns next weekend with both and Senior and Junior Shelmalier teams in action. The Junior hurlers play Monageer on Friday, May 22, in St. Patrick's Park, Enniscorthy starting at 6.30 p.m., while the Senior hurlers play Ferns in Bellefield on Saturday, May 23 starting at 2 p.m. Your support for both teams would be greatly appreciated. There was no winner of the Shelmalier lotto draw on Monday, May 11, when the following numbers were drawn: 3, 12, 17 and 32. There was one winner of match three and that was Anne Walsh of Wexford who won €200. ST. MARTIN'S Both Under-14 camogie teams were in championship action last week. The 'A' team played Bunclody at home on Monday, as in the Slaney Festival final, and they came away with a convincing win by 4-8 to no score. On Wednesday, our 'B' team travelled to Taghmon where they lost to a strong team by 4-3 to 2-2.  In other camogie fixtures, the Under-12 girls beat Rathnure by 5-4 to 1-2, and our two Under-16 teams lost to Glynn-Barntown. On the inter-county front, it was great to see Aisling O'Connor nominated as captain of the Wexford Intermediate camogie team whicho travelled to Thomastown to take on Kilkenny in the Leinster semi-final. The match ended in a 0-9 to 1-6 draw and the replay will be in Wexford on May 30. Other club ladies on the team were Sarah O'Connor, who scored four points from frees from centre-back, Marie Claire Morrissey at wing-back and Amy Ryan at corner-forward. We'd also like to congratulate the six Under-14 girls who've made it on to the county panel: Ashling Alouf, Amy O'Leary, Aoife Dempsey, Fiona Esmonde, Ciara O'Connor and Hannah Quirke. The Under-12 footballers opened their championship campaign in convincing fashion as both teams travelled to Bellefield and beat Starlights in fine open games. Their second round of matches, against Glynn-Barntown, is on tonight at 7.30 p.m. in Piercestown. The Under-16 footballers, however, were not so fortunate as they lost to Starlights on Monday, May 11. Last night, Monday, May 18, they travelled to Kilanerin to play Ballinastragh Gaels and the score is available on Twitter and on the club website. The club lotto grand prize of €15,000 remains unwon and the numbers drawn on Sunday, May 10, were 4, 9, 12 and 19. We had two match three winners who get €50 each so well done to Danny and Caroline Kenny and Michael and Liz Corcoran. ST. ANNE'S Results: Under-14 camogie, Cloughbawn 8-6, St. Anne's nil; Under-12 football, St. Anne's 2-8, Our Lady's Island/St. Fintan's 0-5; Senior ladies' football championship, Adamstown 2-13, St. Anne's 1-6; Under-16 football, Dunbrody Gaels 3-12, St. Anne's 1-9; Under-14 football, St. Anne's 5-9, Kilrush 1-2; Junior 'B' ladies' football championship, St. Anne's 7-6 , Glynn-Barntown 7-6; Senior football league, St. Anne's v. Castletown (postponed); Junior football league, St. Anne's 3-6, HWH-Bunclody 1-10. Fixtures: May 19, Under-12 football, St. Anne's v. St. Mary's (Maudlintown) at 7.30 p.m. in Rathangan; Under-12 girls' football, St. Anne's v. Crossabeg-Ballymurn at 7 p.m. in Rathangan; Under-10 girls' football, St. Anne's v. Kilmore at 7 p.m. in Kilmore ; May 21, Under-14 football, St. Anne's v. Fr. O'Regan's (Craanford) at 7.30 p.m. in Rathangan; Under-11 hurling league, St. Anne's v. Faythe Harriers at 7 p.m. in Páirc Charman; May 22, Junior 'B' hurling championship, St. Anne's v. Crossabeg-Ballymurn at 7.30 p.m. in Crossabeg-Ballymurn; Under-10 football 'A'  and 'B', St. Anne's v. St. Mary's (Rosslare) at 7.30 p.m. in Rathangan; Under-10 camogie blitz at 6.30 p.m. in Rathangan; May 23, Under-8 football, St. Anne's v. Horeswood at 11 a.m. in Horeswood; May 24, Senior hurling championship, St. Anne's v. Glynn-Barntown at 4.30 p.m. in Innovate Wexford Park. Registration night for St. Anne's Cóiste na nÓg club will take place on Tuesday, May 19, from 6.15 p.m. to 8.15 p.m. in the clubhouse.  The cost of registration for 2015 is as follows: first child €35, second child €25, third child and upwards €10 each. If you haven't already registered your child, come down to the clubhouse on Tuesday evening. This year's Kellogg's G.A.A. Cúl Camp for both boys and girls covering football, hurling and camogie will take place in St. Anne's G.A.A. club grounds from July 20 to 24.  Children will get to learn G.A.A. games from qualified coaches in a safe and fun environment.  Children from six to 13 years can be registered online at www.gaa.ie/kelloggsculcamps.  If the booking is made online or through the application form before June 1 the children will receive this year's Cúl Camp gear before school ends. The cost of the Cúl Camp this year is as follows: first child €55, second child €45, third and fourth child €40 each. All your training needs, from gearbags, gumshields, socks, nicks, helmets, training tops, hoodies, jerseys etc. are available from St. Anne's shop. To order call/text 087-2076869 or e-mail stannesshop@gmail.com GLYNN-BARNTOWN It was a good week on the camogie front with three wins from three in the championship. The Under-12 team travelled to Oulart on Friday night and put in a gutsy performance to seal victory on a scoreline of 3-5 to 0-2. Our Under-14 team played Rathnure on Monday in Rathnure and came out on top after an excellent display, scoring 1-4  to Rathnure's 0-2. We had a fantastic win over St. Martin's in the Under-16 Premier championship on Thursday in Killurin by 3-6 to 2-2. The Glynn-Barntown girls put in a strong performance in every position with tight defending and classy scoring. Well done to Laura Dempsey who was part of the Co. Intermediate camogie panel which drew with Kilkenny on Saturday (0-7 to 1-4). In Coiste na nOg news, our Under-10s were out twice last week - first against Oulart-The Ballagh on Wednesday in hurling and Friday versus Sarsfields in football. All players worked hard in their games, putting their skills to the fore. The busy week, of football in particular, in the club continued with our three Under-12 boys' football teams playing Tuesday evening in Killurin. The blue team was narrowly defeated by Gorey's 'A' team, the green team beat Gorey's 'B' team, while the white team performed really well against Ferns but were beaten by five points. It is great to be able to field in such numbers. Thanks to all involved. Our Under-14 footballers played at home on Thursday versus Volunteers but were unlucky in the result. Both of the Under-16 footballers played championship on Monday. The 'A' team played Shelmaliers in Hollymount and won comfortably while the 'B' team played Cloughbawn at home but didn't get the hoped for result. Glynn-Barntown was well represented on the Co. Minor football panel on Saturday with James Stafford, Fionn Cooney, Ciarán Joyce, Stephen Lyne, Matt Doyle, Ben O'Shea and Kevin Mahoney all togging out against Dublin in Bellefield in the Electric Ireland Leinster quarter-final. Wexford gave a great account of themselves, staying close on the scoreboard , but two Dublin goals in the last ten minutes put an end to their journey. Our first Michael Laffan Memorial tournament takes place next Saturday, May 23, in Killurin from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. This is an Inter-county and club hurling tournament for Under-10s and Under-11s in which it is hoped that up to 300 players from six different counties will take part in a feast of hurling as a fitting tribute to a great Gael - the late Michael Laffan Snr. A huge amount of planning and preparation has gone into the event by many members of Glynn-Barntown G.A.A. club. Admission is free. The Intermediate footballers played Kilmore away on Saturday evening and put in a strong performance to earn a draw (1-15 to 3-9). Our three goals came from David Farrell, Jamie Crean and Jimmer Doyle. Our Senior hurlers will take on St. Anne's in the championship on Sunday at 4.30 p.m. in Innovate Wexford Park. The Under-12 girls took on St. James' on Sunday evening and continued their winning streak with a score of 6-10 to 5-4. Our Under-14 ladies' footballers played Ballyhogue  on Friday in Killurin and ran out worthy winners. Thanks to all who supported the recent Féile fundraisers - and well done to all who organised and took part in the hugely-enjoyable Féile table quiz on Friday. Tickets are now available for the cabaret night in Mary Jo's on Sunday, May 31, from any committee member. Alternatively patrons can pay on the door on the night. CROSSABEG-BALLYMURN Last week's lotto numbers were 1, 22, 24 and 30. There was no winner. Lucky dips: Liam Kehoe and Joanne O'Leary. This week's jackpot is €10,000. Best of luck to the Intermediate hurlers who play Oylegate in the championship on Saturday at 7.30 p.m. Also best of  luck to our Junior 'B' hurlers on Friday as they play St. Anne's, also in the championship.  The club is holding a barn dance in John Cullen's grain store on May 20. Tickets are on sale for €15 each. GUSSERANE The Coiste na nÓg G.A.A. season is up and running with plenty of activity with games and training in all grades. The Under-6s under the watchful eye of Senior selector Mick McCormack are making great headway with a few of them informing him that they are available for selection against Castletown in the next round of the Senior championship. Maybe a game too early but it's great to see the enthusiasm. Our Under-8s gave a fantastic account of themselves recently in the Bannow hurling league where they mixed it with the big guns of Oulart and Glynn in the final stage. Plenty of young blood there for the future. They will be playing their first football game on May 16 against Horeswood in the league section. Best of luck to all the players and to P.J., Mick and Seamus. The Under-10s are in the Community Games football final against Bree (Ballyhogue) and they are starting their league campaign against Horeswood in football and St. James' in hurling. The Under-12 footballers are split into two groups, yellow and blue. The yellow team opened up with a win against Wygram Gaels (Clonard and Volunteers). The blue team has played a few more games against Glynn, St. Anne's and Rosslare. All were extremely close games with the Tintern boys coming out on top in two games and narrowly losing one. Next up for the yellow team is  against Taghmon while the blue team's next game is against Fethard. Under-12 hurling will be starting up shortly with an opening game against Adamstown. Our Féile team has been drawn against a team from Tyrone (whom we will be hosting) and are playing exceptionally well with a one hundred per cent record in both hurling and football to date. In Under-16 we are joined with Fethard under the name Mogue's O'Rahilly's. We have struggled a bit but the players showing the right attitude and qualities have a good chance of qualifying for a semi-final in both football and hurling. In Minor we are joined with Adamstown - Abban's O'Rahilly's. This is another team with a one hundred per cent record in both football and hurling, played six and won six. If we manage to win our next games in both football and hurling we will virtually have one foot in the semi-finals. Next up is Taghmon in football after the exams. As you can see it's getting very busy on the under-age front and I would ask as many people to get to see the games whenever possible. CLONGEEN Our Under-12 footballers played Geraldine O'Hanrahans last Tuesday evening in the New Ross District championship. They had a good win by 4-8 to 0-2. Our Under-14 footballers played Duffry Rovers on Thursday evening in the New Ross Standard Division 5 13-a-side championship. They also had a win by 3-4 to 1-7. Scorers were Brian Culleton 1-3, James Butler 1-1 and David Corish 1-0. Well done to both teams on their wins. Congratulations to all the second class pupils who made their First Holy Communion on Saturday. REALT NA MARA-BALLYGARRETT Last Saturday saw Réalt na Mara-Ballygarrett host their first Under-12 camogie blitz of 2015 (see photographs) and what a day it turned out to be. We saw the home hosts going from strength to strength against some very well-established clubs in north Wexford and really giving them socks. It was a superb performance from all the girls, with goals for the home side from Shannon Fleming, Ava Greene, Jessica Farrell and Holly Moran, and also some great saves and puck-outs from our 'keeper, Emma Nolan. KILANERIN-BALLYFAD We have a winner. Congratulations to the Boland family of Palace on winning €11,000 in the club lotto on May 11. It is always great to have a winner, and a local winner is even better. The lucky numbers were 2, 7, 14 and 20. There were also five match three winners, so these numbers must have been popular. The next draw takes place on May 25 in The Gap. While the Under-18 and Under-16 teams take a break from matches for exams, the Under-8s, Under-10s and Under-12s all start their fixtures this or last week.  See the club noticeboard or the fixtures page under 'news' on www.kilaneringaa.ie.   Both adult football teams will have played over the weekend, and the adult hurlers are playing again next weekend. Players, remember to tell coaches if you are going to miss any upcoming match, and also remember to bring the registration fee to your coach before the month end. KILRUSH-ASKAMORE Under-6 and -8 hurling training is Tuesday at 6.30 p.m. in Ballyroebuck with a special guest trainer! Under-10 football training is on Tuesday at  6.15 p.m. and there's a football match on Friday in Ballyroebuck at 7 p.m. against Craanford. The Under-12 footballers played very well when beating Ballygarrett by 5-11 to 1-2 last week. They play Castletown at home this Tuesday evening. The Under-16 footballers had a good win over Duffry Rovers last Monday. The momentum continues to build as the Under-14 Féile approaches. Host families have been selected at this stage. Their first game will be on Friday, June 26, against a team from Fermanagh at 5 p.m. in Rathnew, Co. Wicklow. They will play against Rathnew at 6 p.m. at the same venue. They will play against Kilpeacon from Limerick in our pitch on the Saturday at 11 a.m. before a quarter-final appearance in Gorey on Saturday afternoon. If they are successful in this the semi-finals and final take place in Carlow on Sunday. It promises to be an exciting weekend with a hectic schedule. TAGHMON-CAMROSS Our Junior 'B' hurling team plays Adamstown in the third round of the District championship on Friday in Taghmon at 7.15 p.m., and our Junior hurling team is playing the Rapparees on Saturday in Oylegate at 6 p.m., with all support welcome. The club lotto is on tonight (Tuesday) in the Centre when the jackpot is €6,200, so have your tickets in at 8 p.m. The second monthly draw in the Co. Development Draw is on next week, so have your tickets and monies in with Eleanor Murphy by the weekend. SHAMROCKS The club would like to pass on its condolences to the family and friends of Robert 'Tex' Byrne. Occasionally 'Tex' was known to venture over to the opposite side of the Slaney where he was welcomed by his many friends from the Shamrocks. As some friends put it, he was not bad for a Rapps man, and indeed some went as far as to almost accept him as an honorary Shamrocks man, even it is was a title he refused to accept. R.I.P.  Our Junior hurlers had an impressive victory on Friday with a 2-11 to 0-11 win over our neighbours, the Rapparees. Well done to all involved.  The next Under-8 hurling and football session will take place on Friday at 6.30 p.m. in the Shamrocks pitch.  Our Senior hurlers take on Oulart on Sunday in Bellefield at 1 p.m. Please come out and support the lads if you can. Wexford People 
