sport football
{ John Greene 
    October 13 2013 03:04 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/john-greene-decision-to-cut-funds-will-return-to-haunt-government-29655561.html }
The Irish sporting community is bracing itself for bad news on Tuesday. The amount of money given to fund the country's day-to-day sporting activities next year will certainly be cut, the question is, by how much? In the last few days fears have been growing that the reduction will be even more severe than initially presumed. Funding for sport peaked in 2008 when the Irish Sports Council received €57.3m but it has been declining steadily since, to €43.1m this year. In last year's Budget there was a reprieve of sorts when an expected cut of five per cent was revised at the last minute to half that. This was broadly welcomed as the best of a bad lot, even though it was still damaging. However, there is speculation in recent days that the 2014 budget for sport could hit 2006 levels, in other words approximately €40m. Unless there is another last-minute reprieve, this clearly will be a significant backward step, which will inflict massive damage on Irish sport. As one leading figure said last week, it will almost certainly lead to job losses as organisations are forced to drastically cut back their spending. How a government which is constantly spinning about the importance of job creation can take decisions which directly lead to job losses is puzzling. On Morning Ireland last Friday, the Minister for Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation Richard Bruton said that departmental budgets had been pretty much finalised but that there were still elements of discretionary spending, particularly around job creation, to be decided on. On the basis that most of the headline decisions have been taken this weekend, presumably today's Cabinet meeting will sign off on the finer details of Tuesday's Budget. Sports funding has two basic purposes. The first is to fund elite sport and athletes in pursuit of excellence and success; the second is to encourage and enhance participation levels across the entire population. On both counts Ireland is a long way off being a world leader and any reduction will knock us further back, while a cut as severe as that outlined will be devastating. But investing in sport can also lead directly to job creation. The Federation of Irish Sport, in its excellent pre-Budget submission, called on the Government to invest €1 per head of population in a fund to create jobs and increase participation. This fund of €4.58m could be used to create jobs and grow tourism which would bring a far greater return to the Exchequer. This is without even getting into the other enormous benefits to education and, the big one, health. The estimated cost of physical inactivity to the State is €1.68bn. According to the Federation, one sports development officer can attract an estimated 5,000 new participants to physical activity a year. A recent study in the UK found that the sport and leisure industry employs 21 per cent of all 16-25 year-olds. One telling statistic in the submission is that it costs €278,000 to detain one young person in Oberstown each year. When the FAI ran a late-night soccer league in north Dublin, it cost €15,000 and during it the Garda call-out rate in the area fell by 49 per cent. Minister for Transport, Tourism and Sport Leo Varadkar met with a number of sporting bodies early last week. He told them that everything was still to play for in the Budget and that he and his colleague Michael Ring were arguing strongly in favour of protecting sports funding as much as possible. Those present were impressed with Varadkar's commitment to their cause but fear that he and Ring are fighting a losing battle. It might seem to many, especially given some of the stories of hardship and waste we have heard in the last few weeks, to be almost grotesque to expect that sport should be arguing so passionately for funding but that is to miss the point entirely. The approach and attitude to sport in this country is in stark contrast to that of other small nations. Lithuania took over the EU presidency after Ireland in July and immediately stated its intention to use sport "as an impetus for economic growth and employment". In Finland, the government issued guidelines to local authorities that "making cuts in sport services in the current challenging municipal economy will rebound – the bill for increased inactivity will fall due, with interest, some years later". A study in the US found that for every dollar spent on sport, $4 is saved in healthcare. Sport, according to this report, "is the bailout for the healthcare system". The problem sport faces here, however, is a familiar one in Irish political life: a failure of imagination. An unwillingness, or an inability, at official level to overcome traditional views of sport as nothing other than the State's plaything. Of course, another great failure is the lack of co-ordination across Government departments and State agencies. This can be seen in today's revelation that the GAA, the FAI and the IRFU – the so-called big three – have been left stunned by massive rates increases on Croke Park and the Aviva Stadium amounting to over €3.5m. After Tuesday, the 'big three' will be expecting more bad news because the Irish Sports Council will have to impose further cuts on them. At a time when all three are already feeling the pinch – and the financial concerns at the FAI and the IRFU in particular are well documented – this double whammy will be keenly felt. At a time when one arm of government is preparing to directly remove money from sport, another arm is preparing to do exactly the same. And every cent taken out has a knock-on effect. If there is any good news on the horizon for sport, the Sunday Independent understands that the next round of the sports capital programme, which wasn't due until 2015, will be brought forward and applications might be invited early in the new year. As we are seeing with a number of projects, when properly administered, there are significant economic and community gains to be had from the programme. This is unlikely to be announced in Tuesday's Budget, but one measure which may be included is a proposal by Varadkar that tax breaks which currently benefit anyone who makes a donation to a sports capital project should be extended to include all donations to sport. It has been favourably received by the Minister for Finance Michael Noonan. This would take a few years to filter down in the system, but would be welcome nonetheless. But it may be lost somewhat in the gloom if Tuesday's news for sport is as bad as many fear. jgreene@independent.ie Sunday Independent 
