sport football
{  
    January 15 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27365970.html }
Ballymacelligott THE death of Kathleen McKenna occurred on Tuesday 6th January at her home at Rathanny, Ballymacelligott, Tralee. Her remains were removed to the Church of the Immaculate Conception on Wednesday evening, and Solemn Requiem Mass was celebrated on Thursday morning at 11 oclock by Very Reverend Father Michael OLeary PP and interment was immediately after in Rath Cemet GAA CLUB lotto results for week ending 10 January 2004. The lucky numbers were 2 – 10 – 24 – 25. Jackpot: ?1900 – not won. Consolation Lucky Dip winners - ?30 each: 1) Gerry O’Connell, Castleisland; 2) Maurice Leen, Chutehall, Tralee; 3) Michael Stack, Gurrane, Listellick, Tralee; 4) Ivan Groves, Ballyackey; 5) Sean Hickey, Tullig, Castleisland Seller’s Prize:Maurice O’Reilly, Gortatlea Next draw: Saturday 17 January 2004 at Glenduff House, Jackpot ?2,050 SENIOR CITIZENS PARTY: The Senior Citizens’ Party, sponsored by the Ballymacelligott Pioneer Society, will be held this year on Thursday January 22nd starting with Mass at 7pm sharp. The party will be held at the Ballygarry House Hotel with Mass, dinner and dance afterwards. The music is by Mr Johnny Barrett. Tickets are ?18. MASS: Everyone is welcome to the mass at 7pm, but only ticket holders may have dinner. Admission to the dance will cost ?3 per person or ?5 per couple. Limited number of tickets at ?18 each are available to people who are not senior citizens. Ticket sellers are Pat Slattery, Bobby Fitzgerald, Kathleen Herlihy, James Griffin, Denis Mannix, Florence Ahern, Mary O’Hanlon and Nellie O’Connor. HANDBALL:Ballymacelligott Handball club: This weekend the Ballyroe Heights Co. Singles 40 x 20 Juvenile Finals took place in The Sports Complex Tralee . Congratulations to the following players from our Club that were winners and runners-up as follows: Winner Girls U10: Cornelia Prendiville Winner Girls U11: Áine Casey Winner Girls U12: Hazel Prendiville Winner Girls U14: Sharon Twomey Runners-up: Maedbh Prendiville Winner Boys U14: Cian Counihan Winner Girls U16: Ashley Prendiville Winner Boys U16: Colin McSwiney Winner Boys U17: Liam Thompson Runners-up: Denis Buckley Saturday 17th January: Doubles Co. Championships: U10s to U13 commencing at 12.00 noon at Sports Complex Tralee.  Sunday 18th January: Doubles Co. Championship: U14 to U17 commencing at 12.0o noon at Sports Complex Tralee.  Friday 30th Jan.2004 at Ballyroe Heights Hotel Kerry Handball Awards Training for all age groups will commence on Thursday the 15th January at 7.00pm . All beginners and seasoned players asked to attend. KIELDUFF COMMUNITY CENTRE: A good turnout for the first night of the cards for 2004, these will take place on every Wed evening and beginners are welcome. All the usual activities are back to normal. KERRY GAA SUPPORTERS CLUB: The annual social will be held in Ballygarry House Hotel on Friday January 23rd. Johnny Reidy and Eddie Leen will provide the music. Tickets will cost 25euro, meal will be served at 8:45pm sharp. Please note that doors close at 9pm. The Kerry GAA player of the year will be selected on the night and as usual it promises to be a great night out. Tickets available from Jerry Savage 0876724641. CLOSE SHAVE: While some of us do our best to hold on to the little bit of hair we have, a group of locals are going to have their heads completely shaved all for a great cause! They are attempting to raise much need funds for Our Lady's Hospital for Sick children in Crumlin. The burning question at the moment is whether James Sugrue will take the plunge and become the Kojack of Kielduff. All will be revealed in Glenduff House on Sat night, Jan 24th and sponsorship cards are in all local outlets. PLEASE sponsor the "Baldy Bunch" SENIOR CITIZENS Christmas Party: For as long as most people care remember the Pioneer Association have taken charge of organising the Senior Citizens party, well this year is no exception on Thursday Night Jan 22nd in the Ballingarry House the annual party will commence with the celebration of Mass at 7.00pm followed by dinner. Afterwards the one and only Johnny Barret will provide the music. This is the highlight of the year for our older members of the community and provides a great night of reminiscence and chat of the times gone by. Tickets at 18E are available from Pat Slattery, Kathleen Herlihy, Bob Fitzgerald, Denis Mannix, Florence Ahern, Mary O'Hanlon and Nell Connell. Only those with tickets will be eligible to sit for meal admission to dance will cost ?5. POLKA CLASSES: polka classes are been held every wednesady night in St Brendan’s community centre at 8.30pm everybody is welcome to come along and enjoy the craic RAMBLING HOUSE: On Sunday, January 18, St Brendan’s Community Centre will host a Rambling house. This will be held from 7-9 pm. Anyone who would like to contribute by story telling playing musical instrument or singing or indeed just to come and listen are very welcome GARDENING CLASSES: Depending on the number of people interested it is hoped that gardening classes will be held in St Brendans community centre. anyone who is interested in partaking should contact John O'Donoghue on 0872859449 or 0667137033. in relation to these classes or in relation to the other activities mentioned. ATHLETICS: Ballymac athletes have got the New Year off to a busy and successful start. On January 1, Mary O’Donnell, Donal O’Callaghan and John Lenihan travelled to the annual Beaufort 10k race where Mary finished 2nd in the ladies O-35 event. In the senior mens’ race, John Lenihan and Donal O’Callaghan finished 3rd and 4th, while in the team event, An Ríocht continued their unbeaten run, scoring a comfortble victory over Gneeveguilla. The scoring team was Lenihan, O’Callaghan, James Doran and Willie Reidy. On January 3, Mary O’Donnell represented us at the Munster Masters indoors in Nenagh where she performed bravely at an event that was totally new to her. On Sunday last, Mary’s husband Mike O’Donnell travelled to Nenagh for the Munster senior indoors and won a silver medal with An Ríocht’s 4x100m men’s relay team. He also performed well in the individual 100m metres. Meanwhile, at Mallow, 300 athletes braved the winter conditions and turned out for the annual 10 mile road race which saw two Ballymacelligott athletes finish in the top seven — John L:enihan took 4th place and donal O’Callaghan, running in his first ever 10 mile race, finished 7th. On this Friday night at the Gleneagle Hotel, 11 Kerry sports people will be presente with awards for their contribution to Kerry sport durnig 2003.Among the recipients will be such house names asMick O’Dwyer, Gillian O’Sullivan and Jim Culloty. However, a large Ballymacelligott following can be expected at the function, as we have two award winners among the 11. Eoin Leen was selected for January and John Lenihan was selected for June. An occasion not to be missed for any true sports fans. HAPPY NEW YEAR to all the readers and best wishes for a great 2004. What a lovely mild Christmas we experienced.Safe journey , to all our family members, friends and neighbours who were able to make it home,as you all go back to work etc. BEST WISHES to all the students who are sittng exams in universities in the next week or so and may we wish you god preparation time. SCOUTS: Scouting will resume next Monday, Jan 12 at 6.30pm in Ballybunion Community Centre and the leaders look forward to having all the scouts back for an action packed term. Thanks to all the parents who co-operate with the leaders during the year and may they hope for continued support as without them it would be impossible to run a good scout troop. Also the leaders wish to say that they welcome parents to drop in and say hello and even see what’s happening during the scout sessions and are thankful for the kids being on time for the meeting and being collected on time also. PANTOMIME: Castlegregory have once again produced a wonderful pantomime, which will be run from Thursday, 22 – Sunday 25th.January at the Community Centre, Castlegregory. Performances on Thursday, Friday and Saturday night will commence at 8.00 p.m. with a mattinee on Sunday at 3.00 p.m. Ticket only - Bookings - 066/7139422 – office hours – Monday – Friday, 9.30 – 5.00 p.m. Best of luck to all involved. SENIOR CITIZENS: Camp senior citizens and friends are invited to their Christmas Dinner party at Camp Old School on Sunday February 8 at 1.30 p.m. This is always a great day of music song and dance. Transport provided for those who need it. GAA: Annascaul GAA will hold their AGM on Sunday, January 18 at 7pm sharp. All are welcome, Nominations for Committee Members are also welcome. This year a celebration of the success of the club will take place at a dinner dance on Saturday January 24th. The dinner will be held in the Hillgrove Hotel, Dingle. For enquiries contact committee members. CASTLE GRAND: Last week’s draw was held on Friday, January 9, at the Green Room Bar. The winning numbers were 9, 10, 15 and 16. There was one lucky winner of the jackpot of ?1350. Congratulations to the winner Joan O’Connor, Killiney. The winning ticket was purchased at Gay Keanes, Supermarket. They will receive ?100. There was two match three winners: Ann O’Connor, Maharees and Mary Ferritr, c/o Ferriters Bar. The five lucky dips went to Derek O’Connor, Maharees; Frick Courtney, Castlegregory; Colin & Gay, c/o Gay Keane; Pat Quirk, Kellysheight and Brian Goggin, Kellysheight. Next week’s draw will take place in Tigh Tomsin’s Cloghane on Friday, January 16. The jackpot will be ?1200. BORD NA NOG: Castlegregory Bord na nÓg annual fundraising 31 card drive will take place on Sunday, January 25, at the Club rooms, with al the usual game prizes, plus many raffle prizes. The card drive will commence at 7pm sharp. This is our main fundraising event and all proceeds are used to defray the costs of running Bord na nÓg activities, including transport costs and affiliation fees. Even if you don’t play cards, you can support us by buying an admission ticket for the game - Cost ?10. We look forward to seeing all our usual players. New players will be especially welcome. GAA: The medals for the minor team for the West Kerry Shield will be presented shortly. CLUB CONVENTION: A reminder to all current and intending club members that our 2004 Agm takes palce on Saturday, January 17 at 8.30pm, in the Clubrooms. All nominations and motions should be with the secretary by January 14. PANTOMIME GROUP: Will be presenting Cinderella at the Castlegregory Community Centre on the following dates: Thursday, January 22; Friday, January 23 an Saturday, January 24 at 8pm, and there will be a matinee showing on Sunday, January 25, at 3pm. Tickets are ?8 for adults and ?4 for children and are available only at the Information Centre weekdays 9.30 to 5pm. (7139422). Get your tickets early. Proceeds will benefit local charities. TABLE QUIZ: The organisers of the quiz which was held in the Green Room Bar in aid of St Mary of the Angel’s Beaufort, would like to thank everyone for their support. The money raised was ?707 and will be forwarded to St Mary of the Angels. CARE OF THE AGED: The Care of the Aged Group would like to thank the generosity of the Castlegregory Wren which gave ?230, and to the Tullig Wren, which contributed ?200. If there are any notes you would like included in the Castlegregory notes, please call into the Visitor Information Centre or phone us on 7139422 before 12pm on Mondays. GAA CONVENTION: The 2004 AGM will take place this Saturday, January 17, at 8.30pm, in the Clubrooms. Bord na nÓg: The Castlegregory Bord na nÓg Annual Fundraising 31 Card Drive will take place on Sunday, January 25, at 7pm sharp in the Clubrooms. This is our main fundraising event and to defray the costs of running four underage teams for the year ahead, so please support it. Admission is ?10. THE staff and committee of Na Leanai Pre School and After School would like to give a huge thank you to everyone who participated and supported the Children’s Concert on December 16. ?861 was raised. BADMINTON: The above sport continues in the Sportshall every Tuesday night at 9pm. COMMUNITY SOCIAL ECON AND DEV CO LTD: The collection of subscriptions will continue for the January draw, which will be held in Keans Bar on January 24, at 11pm. Results of December draw, ?100 each Hannah Leen, Mary Mulvihill, Dromkeen, Sean Quinlan, Ann and Pat O’Connor, Ballyduff, Maurice Egan, Church Rd. Newbridge steak set, Michael O’Shea, Farran. Framed mirror, Mary Taylor, Marian Terrace, John O’Muireann O’Neill, Ardagh. Framed picture, Helen Boyle, Ballincrossig. GAA LOTTO: There was no winner of the lotto jackpot. The numbers drawn were 8, 17, 19, 22. The following won cash prizes of ?25 - Mick Moriarty, Ballyduff, Sinead Moriarty, Causeway, Patrick Piggott, do, JP Leen, Ardfert. DEATHS: Sympathy is extended to Christy Leahy, Eileen and family, Farran on the death of Patrick Leahy, Ballinoe and London. Sympathy is also extended to the relatives of Mrs Kavanagh, Clash and Hannah Concagh, Tralee. CARD DRIVE: The results of the 41 card drive, held at Hartys on Friday. Winners - Joan Kenny, Marian Harty. Runners up - Noreen O’Connor, Harry Joe O’Connor, Tom O’Connor, Peggy Godley. Sunday, January 11, winners - James Neilan, Marian Harty. Runners up - Patrick Moriarty, Noreen O’Connor, Kathy Neilan. Table prize - John Leahy. Next drive Friday, and Sunday. GYM: Are you looking for a healthy pastime for the long dark nights. If so why not drop into the Gym at Ballyheigue Community Centre, where fully qualified staff will give you a free tour of its extensive facilities. The Gym has ten pieces of user friendly cardiovascular equipment, as well as machine and free weights. You can pay by the session or avail of our unbeatable membership offers. Whether its losing weight or getting fit for upcoming events, the gym at Ballyheigue Community Centre is worth a visit. Open Monday to Friday 10am to 1pm and 5pm to 9pm, and Saturday, 10am to 1pm. Call Paudie at 066-7133837 for more details. AEROBICS: The next programme of aerobics will begin Monday, and Wednesday, January 19/21 at Ballyheigue Comm Centre. It’s an eight week course, twice a week. These classes have proven to be very successful in the past so booking is essential. Phone Paudie 0667133837. A public meeting will be held in Godleys Hotel, Fenit, on Monday night, February 2 at 9pm, to discuss all aspects of this project. An open invitation to attend this meeting is extended to everybody. ICA: Just a reminder about the first meeting of the Spa/Fenit ICA , which will take place at the Oyster Barn, Spa, on Wednesday night next, January 21 at 8.30pm. SYMPATHY is extended to the following families, who suffered recent bereavements. Michael O’Leary and family, Ballinasare, on the death of his mother, Margaret O’Leary, of Shanakill, Tralee, Jimmy Ferris and family, Ballyea on the death of Annes brother, Philip Foley, Wexford, who died in England, and Jimmy O’Shea and family, Ballygarron, on the death of his sister Mary Monaghan, formerly of Knockanish, who died in Birmingham. Mrs Nora Kenny and family, of Lassinagh, on the death of her sister, May Dineen, in London. GAA NEWS: Results of the club lottery, held in Godleys Hotel, Fenit were numbers 7, 8, 18, 24. Jackpot not won. Lucky dip winners Madeline O’Keeffe, Fenit, Liam O’Mahony, Ballyheigue, Derek Clinton, Fenit, Kevin O’Mahony, Kilfenora, Joanne Kelly, Scrahan Cross. AGM: The Churchill GAA clubs AGM will be held in the Community Centre, Spa this Saturday night, at 8.30pm. Everybody is welcome to attend. SCOR NA NOG: Best of luck to coach, John Joe O’Donnell, and his young quiz team of Tom O’Donnell, Ross Reale, and Darragh Herlihy, who are taking part in the Munster c’ship this Sunday. THE management and staff at Mt. Brandon Hostel in Cloghane village are happy to announce the opening of post-office, shop and coffee shop at the hostel premises on Thursday 22nd Jan. Pensions will payout from Thursday, Jan 22. Child allowance will payout from Tues 3rd Feb. We look forward to serving you. We thank Paddy and Joan Moriarty for their co-operation and help in making the transition and wish them health and happiness in their retirement. DEATH: The death took place of Sister Declan Buckley, aged 92 years, Presentation Convent, Killarney and formerly of Knockane, Listowel. Sincere sympathy of the Community is extended to her nephews Tim (Knockane), Denis (Tullamore), nieces Mrs Joan McCarthy (Knockane), Mrs Nora Kissane (Lacca, Lisselton), Mary (Dromcollogher), Margaret (Macroom) and also to her other nephews, nieces and relatives. The death took place at Arás Mhuire Nursing Home, Listowel of Nell Enright, Ballahadigue aged 95 years. Sympathy of the Community is extended to her nephew Denis (Dromin), Jerry (England), niece Mrs Mary Lavery and grand-nieces. REMINDER: The Annual Social takes place on Friday night, January 23, at the Listowel Arms Hotel. Music by the Michael Collins Band. Tickets are ?20 and can be had from committee members. CARDS: The winners of first prize at last weeks card game were Nora Lyons, Ann Cahill and Anita Danaher. In second place was the team of Pat Doran, Dan Brosnan and Liam Lane. The table prize went to Fr Willie O’Gorman, PP; Jimmy O’Connell and Seamus Lane. Prizes on the door ticket were won by Denis Flanagan and Mike Dore with raffle prizes going to Michael O’Grady, Jimmy O’Connell and Paddy Sheehan. Cards continue as usual on this Thursday night at 9pm, in the Community Centre and all support is much appreciated. GAA SOCIAL: The Parishes of Mountcollins and Tournafulla were united in a wonderful night of celebrations at the Devon Inn, on Saturday night for the GAA and Camogie Clubs Annual Social. The event was a sell out, with almost 500 patrons in attendance to mark the magnificent sporting achievements in camogie, hurling and football during 2003. The importance of the occasion saw many special guests at the top table and I’m sure the organisers were delighted to have among them the GAA President Sean Kelly and his wife as well as county chairman, Pat Fitzgerald. The players of course were the main focus of attention as they all received a rousing reception as they collected their awards. Two local players Joe Lyons and Denis Dillane made their own bit of history on the night as they were presented with six medals each, five in hurling and one in football won during the past year. Also receiving awards were the managers, trainers and selectors of the various teams who all made a valuable contribution during the past year. The staff of the Devon Inn are complimented on the excellent meal they provided. It was early on Sunday morning before the dance floor was empty thanks to the great entertainment provided by Michael Collins and Country Style. Well done to the organisers who gave us another memorable night and the best of luck to all teams in 2004 who we hope will provide us with another big night out this time next year. ALL-STAR AWARD: Congratulations to local club player Shane Gleeson who had been nominated for a football All-Star Award by the West Limerick GAA Board. Shane receives his award for his displays with Mountcollins during the past year and this will be presented at the Boards annual banquet which takes place shortly. INDOOR HURLING: In preparation for the coming season, Tournafulla Bord na nÓg will commence indoor hurling training at Abbeyfeale Sports Complex on Sunday next, January 18, from 4-6pm. We encourage all young players from the Mountcollins side of the parish who are interested in the game to attend those sessions which will benefit their fitness and skills. Further details from Seamus O’Sullivan (069) 81233. GAA: Mountcollins GAA Club concluded their weekly fund raising draw on Friday night and wish to express their thanks to all who helped to make it a financial success. The winners for week six paid up members draw were ?50, Tony Costello, c/o Castlemahon Foods; ?150, Paul Healy, c/o Castlemahon Foods; ?75, Anthony Lenihan, Purt, Abbeyfeale; ?25 each to Denis McCarthy, Mountcollins; Brian Mullins, c/o Castlemahon Foods and Dan Moloney, Abbeyfeale. The winners for week 7 were ?150, Liam Duggan, Kilmallock; ?75, Danny Keating, Tournafulla/ Castlemahon; ?25 each to Eileen Lyons and Pat O’Connor, c/o Inland Revenue Office, Tralee; Fr Willie O’Gorman, PP Tournafulla/ Mountcollins and Pat Lynch, Bishop St, Newcastle. CALENDAR: The ladies of Tournafulla Camogie Club are on a fund raising mission at the moment and have produced a most attractive calendar, which is now on sale at just ?5. The great sporting year of 2003 is covered in great photographic detail with players and sports followers form both sides of the parish featured in the publication which can be purchased in any of the business premises in the village. FISHING CLUB: The Mountcollins/ Brosna Anglers Club held a most enjoyable fund raising night at Quirkes Bar, Mountcollins on Friday night which attracted a big crowd. During the course of the evening the club draw was held and the winners were 1, ?125, Tom Sheehan, Knockulcare, Mountcollins; 2, ?75, Ger Moroney, c/o Kostal, Abbeyfeale; 3, ?50, Eamon Murphy, Lower Rd, Mountcollins. Raffle winners were Andrew Reddan, Limerick; Paul Smith, c/o Kostal, Abbeyfeale; Mike Daly, Caherlevoy; Mike Brosnan, Knockane; Joe Waters, Meenkilly; Bobby Brosnan, Riverside Drive; Theresa and Michael Brosnan, West End and Jack Mahony, Tournafulla. A great sing song and musical entertainment was provided by the driving force behind the club, Brendan Danaher. The Club wish to thank all the people who promoted and supported the draw and attended on the night. To Brendan and Donna for the use of the premises as well as their hospitality and tasty food provided on the night. AGM: The Annual General Meeting of Mountcollins GAA Club will take place on this Friday night, January 16, in the Community Centre beginning at 8.30pm. This is the most important club meeting of the year and all players, club members and any new intending members are asked to make every effort to attend. RECENT DEATHS: Two former natives of the parish passed away during the past week. Sympathy is extended to the family and relatives of the late William (Will Joe) Hartnett, formerly of the Village, Mountcollins and Castleisland, Co Kerry. His burial took place in his adopted town after Requiem Mass on Saturday. May he Rest in Peace. Sympathy is extended to the family of Joe Myles, formerly of Acres, Mountcollins who died in London after a long illness. In his GAA playing days, Joe was one of the most talented players in the parish and performed with distinction at club, county, provincial and national level. Like many of his generation he emigrated to England at a young age where he became a very successful business-man. His funeral will take place in London. May he rest in peace. MOUNTCOLLINS AFC: The meeting of Mountcollins and Ferry Rangers in the Desmond League was called off on Sunday last due to the Tarbert pitch being waterlogged. The game will be refixed for a later date. Training will take place as usual on Saturday at the local pitch. COMMUNITY ALERT: Word has come from the Garda Crime Prevention officer, Noel O’Connell of bogus tradesmen operating in the Limerick/ Kerry area. Under no circumstances should people have dealings with these cowboys whose only motive is crime. Do not admit these people to your property and have no hesitation in reporting their movements, car or van descriptions and registration numbers to the Gardaí. GAA: Due to unfinished business last Sunday, the AGM will be reconvened this Friday night, January 16 in the club rooms, starting at 8pm. Again anybody interested in the welfare of the club should attend. Deepest sympathy is extended to the families of baby Aoife Patricia Magner, Clontarf, whose funeral took place in Mallow, Aeneas Keane, Milltown, Michael Cronin, Bonlicullane, who died in England. May they rest in peace. KERRY DIOCESAN PILGRIMAGE: Shrines of France, led by Bishop Bill Murphy, ex Kerry Airport. Easter Sunday, afternoon April 11, two nights Lourdes, one night Rocamadour, two nights Nevers, one night Tours, one night Lisieux. Return Paris to Kerry, Sunday, April 18. Cost per person ?975, inclusive of tax and insurance. Limited availability. Booking through Torc Travel, College, St, Killarney. Tel 064-32911, fax 064-31582. Special pilgrimage number 064-58219, fax 064-50782, e mail joskdp @eircom.net. BASKETBALL COMM GAMES: It is hoped to enter a girls u16 team to play in community games, which will take place on March 6. Any girls from within the Killeentierna parish boundary who are interested and u16 years on July 31, are asked to be in Currow Comm Centre at 7.30pm on Tuesday, January 20. There will be trials for the u16 boys community games team on Tuesday, January 20 at 8pm in Currow Comm Centre. Any boys from the parish who will be under 16 on July 31 and who are interested din playing are asked to attend. CONFIRMATION: This year will be on Tuesday, March 16. As part of the preparation we will have a Service of Light in Currow Church next Friday at 7pm. The children and their parents are asked to be in their places before 7pm. STATION: Autumn 2003 for Gloundaeigh will be held in Currow Church on Saturday, January 17 at 10am. WEEK OF PRAYER FOR CHRISTIAN UNITY: January 18 to 25. Theme, My Peace I Give T o You. ICA: Meeting in Currans Hall, Thursday, January 15 at 8.30pm. All members requested to attend. FOSTERING: If interested please contact the Fostering Unit, Southern Health Board, 6 Denny St, Tralee. Tel 066-7184822/7184819 for further details. BASKETBALL: Seven juvenile teams took part in the recent Castleisland Christmas blitz. Five of these teams reached the final in their section, with two teams winning their final. This was a great achievement and great credit is due to all players and their coaches. The District N School boys Senior A competition was won by Currow, who beat O’Brennans 27 pts to 19 in the final. Currow team; C Brosnan, Capt, D Breen, T J Hanrahan, S Brosnan, K Fitzgerald, M Hanifin, S Daly, J J Cahill, P O’Shea, K O’Leary, K Forde. Coach Mike Aherne and Liam O’Connell. The District Junior A girls competition was won by Currow, who beat Pres Castleisland by 21 pts to 7. Team; S O’Leary, Capt, S O’Connor, M O’Sullivan, C Breen, S Kelly, C Galwey, A O’Sullivan, A Key, N O’Sullivan. Coaches Catherine O’Sullivan, Jackie Galwey, and Mary F Brosnan. St Annes travelled to Currow on Saturday afternoon to play our u11 and u13 girls. The u11 girls were very slow to get into the game but by half time they had settled down and were up 5 pts to 4 going into the 3rd quarter. The Currow girls won by a margin of 17 to 10. Team and scorers;S O’Leary, 4 pts, C Breen 2, R O’Shea 2, C Galwey 2, S O’Connor, N Hanafin, A Key, N O’Sullivan 0-1, M O’Sullivan 0-4, S O’Connor and A O’Sullivan. The u13 girls also had a good game and won by a margin of 30 pts to 21. Team and scorers, A Daly, 2, L O’Connor 5, M Conroy 9, B O’Shea, E O’Shea 5, S Nolan 4, M O’Sullivan 2, T Nelligan, M Keane 3, S Mannix and M Bradley. The boys of St Brendans, Tralee travelled to Currow on Sunday to play our boys in Co league. Our u11 won by a margin of 24 to 7. Team R Burke 10 pts, C Daly, S O’Connor, P Brosnan, 2, D King 2, J Mallon 2, S McCarthy 8, S Mannix, J P Fleming, D Barrett, and D Callaghan. The u13 boys were next on the court. This was a very exciting game, with Currow slightly ahead at half time 11 pts to 9. The match was drawn at 24 pts each. Three minutes extra time was played, Currow scored 2 pts, and Tralee 3. Final score Currow 26 pts, St Brendans 27. Team and scorers, M King 4, S Brosnan 2, M Hannifin, S Howard, D Breen 3, P O’Shea, S Daly, K Fitzgerald, 2, M McCarthy 8, C Brosnan 7, and K O’Leary. St Brendans u15 boys proved too strong for our boys, winning by a margin of 42 pts to 25. Team and scorers, M King 2, T Bradley 2, P Brosnan 11, D Brosnan 6, M McCarthy 4, J Cahill, M Jones, C O’Leary, M Courtney, R Huggard, J Daly. LOTTO: The weekly GAA clubs lotto draw, held in Donallans on Tuesday, January 6, had a jackpot prize of ?2,200. Numbers drawn were 12, 14, 20, 26. No winners. Four ?50 went to Mary Rose Murphy, Upper Main St, Mary Kelly, The Grove, Timmy Joe Brosnan, The Grove and Micheal O Ceinneide, Baile Na Buaile. Secretary Frank Quaid, gave a detailed account of the years activities. The highlight of the year was winning the W Kerry SF c’ship, just before Christmas. The players showed total commitment in overcoming a spirited Lispole side. The low point was not beating Waterville in the semi final of the Centenary Cup. The minor team also did well, winning back to back W Kerry titles. Chairman, Bernard O’Sullivan, in his address thanked his fellow officers for their help and assistance during the year, to the senior management for their hard work during the past year. His belief and aspiration for 2004, would be that the senior team would win the Co Intermediate c’ship and gain Co Senior status. Three acres were purchased from the Christian Brothers, and when developed would be a major benefit for team training. The Pairc An Asaigh pitch was upgraded at a cost of ?150,000 during the year. He congratulated players from the Club, who wore the Kerry jersey with distinction last year. All outgoing officers except treasurer, Euge O’Connor, who did not seek re election were returned unopposed for 2004. President, Michael Begley. Vice presidents, Canon Jackie McKenna, Dr Jim Brosnan, An Brathair O Cathain, Padraig Lynch, Tomas Garvey, Paudie Fitzgerald, Dave Geaney, Fergus O’Flaherty, Paul Geaney, Padraig Feirteir, Brendan Quirke. Chairman, Bernard O’Sullivan, Vice Chairman, John Foley. Secretary Frank Quaid, Assist Sec Eileen Curran. Treasurer, the position to be filled at the next meeting. PRO and registrar, Paddy Browne. Oifigeach Na Gaeilge, Derry O Murchu. Delegate to Co Board, Paul Scanlon. Delegates to W Kerry Board, Danny Murphy and Paul Scanlon. The senior manager, Damien Foley, trainer Vincent Flannery and selector, Brendán Fitzgerald, did not seek re election. New manager would be put in place by the next meeting. Minor selectors Vincent Flannery, Brendan Devane and Breandan Fitzgerald. Junior B manager, Noel Callaghan. MEETING: A club meeting will be held on Tuesday night next, January 20 at 8.30. DEATH: The death occurred in Shannon of Kathleen Martin (nee Malone), late of Raheenooig, Burnham. 31 DRIVE: A progressive 31 card drive will be held in the Community Hall, Castlegregory on Sunday, January 25 at 7.30. Proceeds in aid of the local Bord Na Nog. DINGLE BORD NA NOG AGM: The AGM of Bord Na Nog An Daingin, will be held in the Sportsfield meeting room on this Friday night, January 16 at 7.30. THANKS: Máire Ní Ghrifin, Marian Park, wishes to thank all who donated to Kukura Neshungu Handicapped Childrens centre in Zimbawe on Christmas Eve. A total of ?1,127 was received. Thanks also to the John St Wren who contributed ?200. YOGA: Dingle Skellig Hotel, ten week course, starting 10am, Tuesday, January 20, including relaxation, meditation, breathing, posture work, self development, energising and energy balancing, concentration, cleansing, stamina building. Crèche facilities available. Tuesday and or Friday morning, gentle yoga, lig do scith. 10 to 11.30, beginners, continuation, experienced. 11.45 to 13.15, Ashtanga style yoga, dynamic stamina building. Thursday, 10 to 11.30, yoga preparation for labour and birth, 11.45 to 13.00, yoga after birth and baby massage 1 to 7 months. Evening, Wednesday, gentle yoga, lig do scith, 18.30 to 20.00, beginners and continuation. 20.15 to 22.00, mixed abilities and experienced. Afternoon, Thursday,Ventry Community Hall, yoga fun relaxation and dance for children, 16.30 to 17.30 7 years and up. Individual, small group yoga and consultations also available. For enrolment and information contact Ilokna 0669151765 eoin@duigo.com www.duigo.com MEETING: A meeting of Craobh An Asaigh of Comhaltas Ceolteoiri Eireann will be held in dTairne Ui Fhlartha on this Saturday evening, January 17 at 6.30. Failte roimh gach einne. PARTY: The annual senior citizens party will be held in the Hillgrove Hotel on Sunday week, January 15 at 3pm. Tickets ?10. LOTTO: There was no winner of the GAA lotto jackpot on Friday night last so ?2400 will be available at the next draw on Friday next January 15. Tickets may be had from club members. Numbers drawn last week: 1, 2, 4 & 8 ?15 each to Patricia White Rathea, Mary Dowling Bunglasha, Tom Carey Duagh, John Neville Lyre, Hannah Collins Abbeyfeale. 5 Free tickets each to P J O Halloran Kilmorna, Gerard Galvin Lybes, Ally Buckley Foildarrig, Shane Leen Lyre, Sabrina O Brien Tralee. Sellers Prize Eamon Stack. RACEHORSE: Belated congratulations to the Duagh Syndicate owners of the racehorse ‘American Duchess’ who won the Supermac Hurdle at Limerick Races on December 27th. The members are: Derry Carroll Foildarrig, Liam Dennehy Foildarrig, Nicolas and Patrick Carroll Knockadireen, Noel Kneafsey Kilcara, Fr John Duggan Castlemahon and Seamus Lynch Caherciveen. FOOTBALL: GAA teams were produced by Duagh in the following categories during 2003:Football - Schools boys & Schools girls, Under 8, Under 10, Under 12, Under 13, Under 14, Under 16, Minor, Under 21, Junior & Senior. The Under 13 was omitted from the list published last week and of course this was the team that won the North Kerry Division I title. NOTES: If you have any items that you wish to have published in the Duagh Notes of the Kerryman please e-mail them to: pkeane@oceanfree.net. Fenit Samphires 6 Mastergeeha 3 Fenit had a good win on Sunday over an impressive Killarney side to keep up the pace on the league leaders Tralee Celtic. It was a cold dark day for the game but the rain held off for the first half. Fenit scored first with a goal from Martin Ferris but Mastergeeha equalised. A Brian Maloney effort put the Samphires 2-1 ahead going in at half time. Fenit came out after a second half shower of hailstones and started the brighest, scoring Mike Maloney goal. Mastergeeha struck back but Fenit made it 4-2 from a Mike Maloney second. A further goal by Brian Maloney made it five and Pa McCarthy gave an even bigger cushion to the scoreline. Mastergeeha clawed another one back but time ran out with the final scoreline 6-3. Hello all. On behalf of everyone in our service, we would like to wish you all a Happy New Year. We returned to work last week and have been very busy. We managed to secure funding which enabled us to install new computers and equipment. Hopefully, this will enable us to do more work on your behalf. We had a lot of exciting things happen over the weekend. Our Deaf Action Group (DAG) met on Saturday to make plans for the World Federation of the Deaf Conference in Spain in 2007. Fundraising ideas are being developed to ensure as many of our members can travel to Spain. DAG already has as many as 40 people interested in attending the conference so a lot of work needs to be done. They will have a raffle on the 7th of February, if you want to buy tickets, contact us. CODA - Children of Deaf Adults held its first ever-European wide meeting in Tralee last weekend. This was history in the making. CODA’s from Holland, England, Ireland and Austria came to Tralee for the weekend. It was interesting to see so many different nationalities celebrating the fact that they had Deaf parents. Future workshops will be held throughout Europe. A CODA weekend will be held in the UK at the end of February. Contact Catherine White for further information. We also had our monthly Interpreted Mass for members. A big thanks to Fr. Nolan for his on-going commitment to this event and to Veronica White for all her Interpreting work. One of our members, Richard Tolan presented our service with candles and a cross, which could be used for the Mass, a big thanks to him. Our Kids Club met too but with such bad weather, it was difficult to source appropriate activities for them. Our local bowling/activities centre has closed down and this has a big effect on our kids club. We need to find other venues that can cater to a small group of kids ranging from 4-16 in age. If you have any ideas, please do let us know. There is one last chance to apply for the Job Coach position with the Supported Employment Consortia. You will need to have experience in the Disability and Employment sector. The ideal candidate will be fluent in Irish Sign Language and have an in-depth knowledge of Deaf issues. For further information contact William White, Resource Co-ordinator. We’d like to welcome a student from the ITT who will be on work experience with us until April. The student is doing the Social Care programme, which prepares a person to work as a Family Support Worker. Her name is Elaine Scannell. During her placement here, she can work with families and will learn sign language. NOTES FOR YOUR DIARY: Kerry Deaf Resource Centre has a position on the Additional Needs Forum with the Kerry County Childcare Committee based in Tralee. The aim of the Forum is to identify needs of children who have different needs. If you are Deaf and interested, do let us know. The first meeting will be held Wednesday 21st January at 4.00pm. SEMINAR: The Interagency Working Group on Child Abuse will have their monthly seminar on Wednesday 28th January at 2.30pm. It will be held at the Education Centre at ITT Dromtacker, Tralee. This month’s seminar is about Adolescent Stress and Crisis. If you wish to attend, we will need to book an interpreter. So, let us know as soon as possible. SOCIAL WELFARE: The National Women’s Council of Ireland will hold a Women’s Model for Social Welfare Reform meeting in Killarney on Thursday 29th January 2004 from 10.00am to 4.15pm. This will be held at the Gleneagle Hotel, Killarney. Interpreters have been booked. If you would like to attend, please let us know as we have some Deaf people attending already. NORTHERN IRELAND Karting will hold their Third Open Ulster Championship event on the 24th of Jan in Ballymena, Northern Ireland. A group of Deaf from Kerry will attend. There will also be a Buffet Disco that night. Contact us for more info. Our contact details are 4 Gas Terrace, Tralee. Tel/fax:- 066 7120399. E-mail: kdrc@eircom.net Website: www.kerrydeaf.com Text: 0876334687. CLOSING date for Inter Federation Cup for crafts 2004 is January 16. Theme counted thread cross stitch. 2 Kits are acceptable but no transfers. 3 Use Aida or even weave. 4 Framed pictures are sent at owners risk. Please pack carefully. Contest committee will not accept responsibility for breakage. 5 Entries must include name, address, telephone no, name of Guild and Federation, and packaging and postage for return. 6 Entry fee ?5. 7 Send to National Contest Sec, Mary Birney, Passage East, Co Waterford. Ready Brek competition is with us again, so encourage the young people in your family to participate. Contest forms on request. Irish competition 2004. Illustrated place name, brief description of the place name (less than 30 words). This must be as Gaeilge or bilingual. Size not more than A4. RULES: All entrants must be paid up members. 2003 winners is not eligible to participate. Entries to Maureen Sheridan, Ringlestown, Kilmessan, Co Meath by February 5, 2004. ACWW: 24th Triennial conference, March 23-29, 2004, to Hobart, Tasmania. If interested in travelling, please contact either your International Officer or ICA, Central Office. The weather at the Barraduff hunt was far from kind, but didn't dampen the spirits of the Kingdom Hunt Club members. Peter Kelly and Tim Cooper prepared an extremely challenging hunt including 139 jumps, over a series of 6 runs, which totalled 11 miles. Thanks to Peter and Tim for their dedication and hard work in preparing one of the most highly anticipated hunts of the year. A massive thanks goes out to the farmers of Barraduff and Headford for supplying the land for the day. Thanks also to Murphy's bar for their hospitality and food. Next week's meet will be in Boolteens, beginning at 1pm. LOTTO: There was no winner of last weeks jackpot of ?5,810. The numbers drawn were 4, 20, 22, 24. The ?32 was won by Kate Joyce, Dublin and the ?20 was won by Maurice Keane, Killorglin. The four sets of free tickets for next week’s jackpot of ?5930 were won by Linda Murphy, Lwr Athea, Billy Mc Kenna, Knockanebrack, Mary T. Kelleher, Banemore, Sarah Grealis, Dundalk. The whiskey was won by Danny O’Connell, Lyre and the voucher by Mike O’Connell, Lyre. SOCIAL: The Kerry GAA Supporters Club annual social takes place on Friday 23rd January in Ballygarry House Hotel, Music by Johnny Reidy, and Eddie Lee, followed by a disco Tickets available from PRO Martin Leane (068) 48116 or any committee member. ACTIVE RETIRED: A meeting was held at the Desmond College on Thursday last to explore the setting up of an Active Retirement Group in Newcastle West. The meeting, which was co-facilitated by Anne Costello of the Mid-Western Health Board Heart Health Team and Deirdre Barrett of West Limerick Community Development Project, was well attended and a committee was elected for 3 months to get the Group going. Training in committee skills will be available for everyone and will enable others to share in the running of the group. The initiative is supported by The Mid-Western Health Board's Heart Health Team in Newcastle West, the West Limerick Community Development Project, the County Limerick Sports Partnership through their 'Communities in Motion Project'. The next meeting of the group will be held at Desmond College, on Thursday 22nd January at 7 p.m. until 8.15 p.m. Anyone who is over 55 years is welcome to come along and join in the activities. The club will be run by the members themselves, who will decide when and where they meet and what activities they will participate in. FRANCE VISIT: A group of six people from Newcastle West's twin town of Chartres de Bretagne in France will arrive in Newcastle West on Friday afternoon and return on Sunday morning. The visitors are all members of the Twinning committee in Chartres and hope to meet with representatives of a number of clubs and organizations in the area while they are here, with a view to organizing exchange visits between the two towns. In the past few years interest in twinning seems to have lessened in West Limerick and this visit will establish whether interest can be revived or not. A great many people from West Limerick travelled to Chartres in the past, students, athletes, musicians and dancers and many others. Brian McCarthy, son of Carmel and Noel McCarthy, Monagea Road and Virginie Le Blay from Chartres de Bretagne met during a school exchange when Brian travelled as a teacher with Gaelscoil O Doghair and Virginie's father, Louis, was Principal of the school in Chartres. The pair married some years ago and last week they had a baby boy, named Finn, they are now living in Adare and Brian is Principal in Broadford Primary School. NEW ARRIVALS: Doctor Miriam Murphy and her husband Doctor John Leonard of the Cara Medical Centre, Newcastle West, have a new baby girl called Mia, their third child. Jackie and Leonard Parker also have a new baby girl, their first child, called Rachel. WEDDING: Michelle O'Gorman, Desmond Credit Union and Des Normoyle, Churchtown, Newcastle West were married on 27th December in Kilmeedy. The reception was held at the Devon Hotel, Templeglantine. Killoughteen School will hold their annual dance at the Devon Hotel, on Friday 16th January. Music is by Michael Collins and a great night is promised. CHERNOBYL: Nora Harrold at Londis Supermarket will accept toys, children's and adult's clothes for Chernobyl orphanages. The children in orphanages in Chernobyl have already had great pleasure from toys given by Irish people in the past and there is still a great need. WINNING STREAK: It was great to see Newcastle West represented on the New Year's Eve Millionaire Winning Streak programme on RTE television. 48 contestants began the show and Kitty McCarthy of Garryduff made it through to the last 3. Kitty had to choose the final number in a combination to unlock the safe with the mega-jackpot inside. Unfortunately Kitty chose the wrong number '5' and the next contestant who chose '6' won the million. So close and yet so far, however Kitty got a consolation prize of ?50,000 and the mother-of-three is planning a sun holiday with her husband Jack. SOCCER: Three young men from Newcastle West Soccer Club, Shay Lyons, David O'Connor and Liam Heffernan, have been chosen by manager Tom Fitzgerald, for the 20-man panel, to play on the Limerick Desmond team. West Limerick Athletic Club held it's A.G.M. in the Rathkeale House Hotel on Monday 29th January. A very successful year was recorded and hopes are high for 2004. The help offered by club members to each other was emphasized and this camaraderie must be encouraged into the future. Officers elected were: Chairman - Malachy McCarthy: Secretary - Willie Costello: Treasurer - Kathleen Brouder: P.R.O. - Mike MacDomhnaill: Coach - Joe Chawke. A vote of sympathy was passed for former club member Joe O'Brien, whose wife Mary died recently. Joe was a fully committed member of the Athletic club in the early years and his ongoing work with Rovers Soccer Club was noted and applauded. WELL DONE: Carmel MacDomhnaill was in winning form over the Christmas holiday. She won a silver medal in the Munster Masters 800m Indoors, a veteran women's prize in the St. Stephen's Day Road Race in Farranfore and in the 'Duhallow 5' race from Newmarket to Kanturk she also took a vet's prize. The 2004 Community Games are getting underway already with final registration date for a number of sports coming up on 21st January: Badminton; Chess; Draughts; Table Tennis; Boys Indoor Soccer; Primary School Quiz - 2 teams per school (just the name of the school is required at this stage); Card game 45, individual event (max. 6 players per area). HURLING CLUB: The Lixnaw Hurling Club AGM took place last Sunday in the Clubrooms. There was a good turnout in what was a very productive meeting. The secretary gave an account of the activities during the year both on and off the field. He encouraged all players, particularly adult players, to join the Voluntary Insurance Scheme with the GAA. The treasurer gave a detailed account of the club’s finances which came mainly from the Lotto, Sponsorship, Senior Team Training Fund, Bag Packing and Special Olympics Draw. Vice - Chairman Martin Galvin said that some players were asked to plat too many games and he wondered if it was wise to be in so many competitions. He complimented the seniors on what they achieved despite the doom and gloom which existed earlier on in the year before congratulating the U21s on their success. Chairman Willie Dowling urged more people to get involved with the underage teams and he was full of praise for the U10 Academy and its coaches. The highlight of the year was obviously the Causeway Voc School win in the All-Ireland Senior Football A final. It was Causeways first ever All-Ireland A success and a very emotional time for all involved. The meeting then proceeded to elect the following Officers for 2004:: President: Mickey Maher. Vice-Presidents: Ritchie McElligortt, Jimmy Hogan, Tommy McElligott, Willie OíConnell. Patrons: Fr McElligott, Fr OíConnor, Fr Moore. : Chairman: Willie Dowling Vice-Chairman: Martin Galvin, Johnny O’Keeffe. Secretary: Paul Wallace Assistant Secretaries: Pat McCarthy (Juvenile) Muiris McCarthy ( Senior) Registrar: Thomas Fitzmaurice Maintenance Officer: Tom Bowler. Development Officer: Thomas Firzmaurice. Treasurer: John Foley Ass -Treasurer: Pat McCarthy Co- Board Delegate: Denis Quilter N Kerry Board Delegate: Tony Sheehy, Willie O’Connell. County Bord na nOg Delegate: Johnny Conway. N Kerry Bord na nOg Delegate: Maurice McCarthy. Scor Organisers: Mary and Eleanor McElligott. Oifigeach na Gaeilge: John McAuliffe. CAUSEWAY SCHOOL: Last Friday night Causeway Comp School held a very enjoyable and successful victory function in the School Gym. They were celebrating their success in the All-Ireland Vocational School Senior Football A Final as well as the All-Ireland winning Ladies Basketball success. A huge crowd was present which included friends and parents of both teams, both panels of players and representatives of the various clubs in the area along with various distinguished guests. The football team were presented with their medals by Laois Trainer, Mick O’Dwyer. Representing Lixnaw on the team were Ger Lovett, Michael Quilter, Declan McCarthy, Gary Hogan, John O’Connor, Ray Galvin, Thomas Kearney and Shane Kelliher, A special presentation was made also to the Team Trainer Willie Dowling to mark the occasion. For the record, Theresa Conway, Helena O’Keeffe, Martina O’Keeffe and Karen Stack all received Basketball medals. Congratulations to all and well done to the organisers of the function which was well thought out, well planned and very professionally executed. SOCIAL: The Lixnaw Hurling Club Annual social will be held in the Listowel Arms Hotel on Saturday night week, January 24. Tickets cost ?22 each and can be got from any of the Officers. The social is in association with the Finuge Football Club and it should make a very interesting and enjoyable night. The highlights of the evening will be the presentation of the county U21 championship medals to the Lixnaw team and Finuge will be receiving their Munster Junior Club Championship medals. As well as that, Lixnaw will be announcing the 2003 Club Man of the Year winner plus the Hall of Fame winner and there may be one or two more presentations on the night. Music is by Steve Donegan followed by Johnny Buckleys Disco. PLAYERS MEETING: A meeting of all members of the Senior panel will take place in the Clubrooms on this Saturday night, January 17th @ 8pm. COURSING LOTTO: Jackpot ?2,100. Numbers 4, 11, 16, 20. No jackpot winner. ?25 winners, Caroline Foley, The Cross, Lixnaw, Eileen Dore, 3 Cloghers, Lixnaw, Mary Fahy, Laccamore, Abbeydorney, Tom Foley, Ballinclogher, Lixnaw. Five free ticket winners, Tony McCarthy, Bog Road, Lixnaw, Raymond Galvin, Ballinclogher, Lixnaw. Bottle of whiskey, Kimberly McCarthy, 3 Cloghers Lixnaw, G Boyd, Lixnaw. Tin of biscuits, Anne Dinnale, Ballyheigue, Phil Galvin, The Cross, Lixnaw. Next draw Dew Drop Inn, January 18. Jackpot ?2,200. CLANMAURICE UTD: The u12s got the New Year off to a winning start, with a 2-1 win over Castleisland Damian Summers and Darragh McAuliffe were on target for Clanmaurice. The u14 team also had a good start to the new year by beating Castleisland 2-1. Two 2nd half goals from Brian O’Carroll and Martin (mouse) O’Connor were the heros for Clanmaurice. Both the u12 and u14 team are now top of their leagues. Well done lads. The u15 team are away to Castlemaine. Kick of is 11am. Best of luck lads. GOLF SOCIETY: The final outing of the year took place at The Kerries golf course during Christmas. This was a three person team event, and was won by the team, comprising Chris Fealy (15), Tom Hennessy (21) and Johnny Lynch (24), with a score of 53 pts (23/30). In 2nd place were John Carroll (13), Michael O’Neill (17) and Con O’Keeffe (25) who also had 53 pts (24/29). 3rd prize went to Mick Fuller (17), Fergus Fitzmaurice (20) and Tom Lynch (26) with 51 pts. While Diarmuid Galvin (19), Mick Leen (22), and Brian Mannion (20), were 4th with 50 pts. The presentation of prizes took place at The Anglers Rest Bar in Finuge and the society are grateful to Mary McCarthy for her sponsorship and the refreshments on the night. The golfer of the year award was also presented on the night. The winner was Cyril Deenihan, who also won the Captains prize and he received a canteen of cutlery, kindly sponsored by Billy Stack. IN 2nd place was Sean Flaherty, while Mick Leen was in 3rd place. The AGM of the society will take place on this Thursday night, January 15 at 9pm, in The Dew Drop Inn. COMMUNITY GAMES: The AGM of the community games will be held this Thursday night, January 15 at 9pm in the School, Ballyhahill. New members are very welcome. NEW YEARS DAY DIP: It is great to announce that the New Years Day dip at Kilteery Pier was a huge success. Great crowds turned out to watch this group of swimmers brave the elements. Men, women, boys and girls all took the plunge in aid of charity. Approx 40 people did the swim, the youngest of these was Eoin O’Shaughnessy, who is only eight years of age. The Anglers Rest in Loughill provided hot beverages after the swim and needless to say these were very much appreciated. The entertainment was provided by Gerard Griffin and Big Maggie. They were joined at various stages throughout the evening by a host of very talented local people. Grateful appreciation is extended to everyone. A cheque for ?5,300 was presented to Niamh Finucane, Manager of St Senans Centre, Foynes, and Mary Cussen O’Shaughnessy, assistant manager by Elaine Fitzgerald, Sean Naughton, and Maurice O’Shaughnessy. It is estimated the final total will exceed this amount. This final cheque will be presented at St Senans Centre, in Foynes this coming Sunday, January 18 at 3pm. Loughill Wrenboys have very kindly offered to provide the entertainment. We want to thank Gerard Reidy and Patrick Finucane who patrolled the waters ensuring the safety of all the swimmers. Thanks also to the Cliffords from Foynes, for their attendance with their boat. Finally we wish to thank everyone who was involved in making the day such a huge success. It is hoped to make this New Years swim an annual event. OLD TOYS: If you have any old toys, that your children no longer play with or old clothes, these would be very much appreciated by the children in Chernobyl. You can drop them into Nora Harrold, Londis Supermarket, Newcastle West or ring 087-9845102. All gifts will be gratefully appreciated. DANCING CLASSES: Will resume in the parish hall, Ballyhahill on Monday night next, January 19 at 8.30. Everyone welcome. New members welcome. CEOL AN GHEIMHRIDH: The Co finals of Ceol an Gheimhridh will be held at the end of January at a venue to be decided. This competition is confined to Comhaltas members. Branch Secretaries will be contacted with all the relevant information. LADIES FOOTBALL: Gerald Griffins ladies football club took the under age players on an outing to the ice skating rink in Cork on Saturday last, and shopping in Cork city also. BALLY ROVERS FC: Jackpot ?2,000. Numbers 3, 5, 12, 18, January 6, at Barr Na Sraide. No winner. Lucky dip winners, ?75 The O’Hanlon family, Ballyhahill, ?30 each, Gretta Quinn, Glenbawn, Con King, Knocknaboula, ?15 each Patrick Ambrose, Tenekilla, Geraldine and Neily Clifford, Ballyhahill. Ten free tickets B O’Shaughnessy Jointer, promoters prize Mary O’Hanlon. New jackpot ?2,150. Venue Knockdown Arms. COMMITTEE: The following is the list of Gerald Griffins GAA committee members for the coming year. Ned O’Connor, Con O’Brien, Seamus Kelly, Joe Herbert, John Mullane, Micheal Healy, Patrick Ambrose, David Hayes, Jim O’Brien, Val Mullane. FIRST MEETING: Gerald Griffins GAA Club held their first meting of the year on Friday night last at the Clubhouse. Chairman, Pat Noonan, welcomed everyone. There was a great attendance with a few apologies from members who could not attend on the night. Damien Reidy was elected as coaching co ordinator for under age players, and he will be in touch with all under age team managers and officials in the coming weeks. A finance committee and a field development committee was formed. The first draw in Limerick GAA development draw for 2004 will be held on Friday night, February 13. The first prize is a Renault Megane hatchback. Anyone who wishes to join are asked to contact any member of the committee as soon as possible. The cost is ?8 per month or ?96 for the year. New promoters for the weekly lotto and new organisers for the development draw will be very welcome. Our next meeting will be held on Wednesday night, February 21 at 8pm. GERALD GRIFFINS GAA LOTTO: No jackpot winner. Numbers 1, 5, 25, 27. Date January 11. Lucky dip winners, ?70 David Hayes, Ballyhahill, ?30 each Mike Stack, Kilteery, Margaret Lynch, Finnoe, Ballyhahill. ?15 Deirdre Kelly, Mohernagh, Ballyhahill. Promoters prize ?15, David Hayes. MEETING: At a meeting last week we picked out the team events in which we will compete over the next 6 months. We hope to have 3 draughts teams and 2 in chess. We entered both the boys and girls Indoor Football under 13 along with the under 15 competition for boys. As is now normal we’ll have a mixed under 10 Gaelic football team as well as a girls under 12 side. This year we intend to have 3 soccer teams -- boys and girls under 12 and girls under 15. After the recent singing success of Fenit school a choir has been entered and we expect to see both boys and girls competing in Olympic Handball. After a lapse of some years we’ll have a presence in Rounders when our under 15 girls take the field. It is expected that we shall field a strong quiz team while Antoinette has an under 16 Basketball side, though we are short of numbers for an under 13 team. A team has been entered in each of the 4 Projects. A Rugby team will take part this year and we will continue to participate in the Tag RUGBY: Of course we will also be strongly represented in Cross-country and Art. This year we hope to have some people to take part in Model Making. Despite the lack of a local pool we expect to have a strong representation in Swimming. Last year we did well in Judo and hopes are high that Judy Walsh and John Liddane can go one better than silver this year, and that Gabrielle Browne will get gold in Mosney. Last year Mihaila Lynch was our only gymnast. PRACTICE TIMES: Girls Indoor Football : Friday 6.30 in the Community Centre Draughts: Saturday 5.30 to 6.30 in the Community Centre Quiz: Sunday 3.00 to 4,30 in The Spa School SYMPATHY The committee would like to offer its condolences to Mike O’Leary on the untimely death of his mother and to Mark on the death of his cousin May in London. The best wishes of all go to Nora Kenny {Blackpool in her current illness. GOOD LUCK Best of luck to Thomas O’Donnell, Daragh Herlihy and Ross Reale who represent Churchill in the Munster Scor na Nog Quiz semi-final in Watergrasshill on Sunday, January 18. 
