sport football
{  
    March 27 2007 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/sport/other-sports/your-weekly-sporting-club-notes-27764375.html }
St Pats, DonabateThe under 13 hurling team beat St Finians of Swords in their first game in the league. Congratulations to both Graeme White and Dennis Cahill who have been selected for the Dublin u'13 hurling development squad. Saturday saw the under 8's take to the field against Binn Eadair in their new jerseys, sponsored by G.Q.P. Well done to the team who ended up w St Pat’s, Donabate The under 13 hurling team beat St Finians of Swords in their first game in the league. Congratulations to both Graeme White and Dennis Cahill who have been selected for the Dublin u'13 hurling development squad. Saturday saw the under 8's take to the field against Binn Eadair in their new jerseys, sponsored by G.Q.P. Well done to the team who ended up with a draw. The under 9's also played on Saturday and comprehensively beat Saint Finbars. The senior team had a tough game against O' Conaills in Clontarf on Saturday and were narrowly defeated. Don't forget the Easter Camp for 2007 is running from Tuesday 10th to Thursday 12th April. Please contact Mick McGleenan, Lyn Savage or any of the committee or mentors for further details. Next on the agenda will be the annual race night. This helps raise much needed funds for the club so good support is critical - dates will be announced very shortly. Deepest sympathies from all at the club to the Mathuna family for their recent loss. St Margaret’s There is an advanced skills camp for u-14's and u-16's in St. Margarets on the 10th and 11th of April, limited places available see Terri Shanahan for application forms. Juvenile training is the usual Tuesday and Thursday at 7 o'clock, all welcome. U-14 hurlers put on a great show despite losing to St. Oliver Plunketts, best on the day were Tony Stritch, Eoghan Rattigan, Adam Shanahan and Ciaran O'Donohue. Inter footballers were lucky to scrape a draw against Ballyboden, St. Enda's, next league match is Wednesday 4th April vs. Lucan Sarsfields at home. Junior footballers lost out to St. Vincents on Sunday morning, also in the league. No winner of this weeks lotto; numbers were 1, 9, 15 and 17. Winners of 20 euro were Conor O'Reilly, Johnny Arthure, Colette Williams, Pat Sullivan and Eamonn Smyth. www.stmargaretsgaa.com St.Finians Weekend Results: Junior Footballers beat Kilmacud Crokes in quarter final of 2006 Junior Championship, Minor Hurlers lost to Na Fianna, Under 13 Hurlers lost to St Pats Donabate, Under 16 Camogie beat CBC, Under 10 camogie lost to Oliver Plunketts. Lotto results for Tuesday 20th March: 12, 14, 19, 21, no winner. 50 euro winners: Stephen Murphy & Stephanie Collins. Lotto results for Sunday 25th March: 13, 18, 19, 21 no winner. 50 euro winners: Paul Shiels & C Grice, next weeks jackpot 3,600 euro. Membership fees are now due and can be paid to any member of the executive. Easter Football Camp will run on 12th & 13th April, Advanced Camp (12-15 year olds) coached by Brian Talty cost 30 euro, Ordinary Camp (4-12 year olds) cost 25 euro, please contact Maree McDonagh at 0876176687 for registration details. Annual Golf Classic will take place in Beaverstown on Friday 11th May. Garristown The club would like to extend its sincerest sympathies to the Walsh and Mulvany families on the death of our Club President Moya Walsh. Moya worked tirelesly for the Club and the community over a long number of years and her work was greatly appreciated by everyone in the village. Players, members and officers of the club will miss her greatly. May she rest in peace. No winner of Lotto this week - Numbers drawn were 4,14,25,40. 20 euro winners were Pat McArdle, Dolores McGrath, Deco & Eugenia and 50 euro sellers prize goes to Sheila & Steph. Next weeks Jackpot 650 euro. All matches called off last weekend as a mark of respect to Moya Walsh. Ladies Training continues every Monday & Wednesday at 7.30pm, Mens Training every Tuesday & Thursday at 8.30pm. Juveniles training continues on the Pitch every Tuesday evening at 6pm Check papers for fixtures for next weekend Wild Geese Lotto number ( 20-3-07) : 3, 20, 23, 34 - No Winner 20 euro each to Gribbin, Beachtree & Butts. Prize next week 1100 euro. Man O’ War Men's first team had a good win over St Oliver Pluketts/Eoghan in the League, the 2nd team lost in the league to Rounds Towers Lusk . U14's had a big win over Clontarf, all played very well, Anthony Kelly, Eoin Rutherford and Eoin Moore were best for Man-O-War. U10's had a good win over Na Dubh Gall, best for Man-O-War were Cian moloney ,Tommy Doran, Pauric White and James Kelly. The U8's lost to Round Towers Lusk. Men's training on Wednesday & Friday @ 7pm at the pitch. Ladies Adult training on Monday & Wednesday @ 7.30pm. Juvenile training continues on Tuesday night in North County Cricket Club, U8 training for Boys & Girls runs from 7pm- 8pm, U10 & U12 training for Boys & Girls will follow from 8pm-9pm, Girls U14 & U16 training is also @ 8pm , contact Bernice on 08682842119. Club memberships are now due, please contact your mentor. O’Dwyer’s The Intermediates had a hard fought win over Fingallians on Saturday. Final Score: Fingallians 1-08 O'Dwyers 2-08. The Junior footballers had a brilliant win over Naomh Mearnog on Sunday. Final Score: O'Dwyers 4-12 Naomh Mearnog 0-09. The Hurlers where beaten by Castleknock. Final Score: Castleknock 2-12 O'Dwyers 0-08 Next weeks fixtures: Minor footballers are playing Parnells on Wednesday at 18.45pm at home and are playing Round Towers Lusk on Sunday morning at 11am. Intermediate footballers are playing Naomh Mearnog away on Saturday at 17.30pm. The Junior footballers are playing St Oliver Plunketts ER away on Sunday at 3pm. The Junior hurlers are playing Naomh Mearnog away on Sunday morning at 11am. Multi Sports Easter Camp takes place in O'Dwyers from 10th - 13th April. Registration takes place in O'Dwyers on Saturdays 10th, 24th and 31st March, book early as places limited. Phenomenal success last year. Contact Mary Kenny on 086 2492959 for further details or email info@odwyersgaa.com Congratulations to Freda Smith and her Culture Group for once again organising a wonderful night's entertainment of our Irish culture on St.Patrick's night. Many thanks to all our supporters. Bingo every Wednesday at 8.40 in O'Dwyers GAA clubhouse. Naomh Mearnog Juvenile Mentors meeting on Thursday night at 9.15. All relevant Mentors are asked to attend. Great start to the Season by our Senior Hurlers who had a good win over Saint Brigids. Minor Hurlers put in a fantastic performance to overcome Ballyboden. Good win also by our Under 14 Camogie Girls. The Inter 1 Footballers made it 2 out of 2 in the League. The Naomh Mearnog/St Sylvesters Senior Ladies football Team prepared for the new Season with a win over Lucan. The arrival of the bright evenings sees the start of midweek matches. On Wednesday evening we have a local derby when our Minor Footballers play Sylvesters. On Saturday our Senior Hurlers commence their league with a game against Ballyboden. Two games not to be missed, so come along and support us. Well done to the Dublin Hurlers on another good win over Limerick. The Bag Pack for the Under 14 Girls Football Team was a huge success. Thank you to all who supported us. Thank you also to the people who supported the Ceili in memory of Donnacha O'Muinneachain. It raised valuable funds for St Joseph's Hospice. Last weeks Club Lotto numbers, 3, 13, 20 and 24. No Winner. 50 euro winners, B Mannix, N Murphy and J Andrews. Don't forget all membership fees must be paid by the weekend. Congratulations to David Madden and Naoise Ryan on the recent birth of their Daughter Robyn. Innisfails Annual Juvenile Awards will take place Wednesday 4th April 6:45pm. Easter Camp starts next Tuesday. Well done to Carla Adams U12 girl’s captain who won January's Fingal Independent Sports Star Award. Our newest team U11 girls played their first game on Saturday and played very well. Thanks to St Sylvester’s for the friendly. New players welcome for all teams. Juvenile training as usual Tuesday 6:30pm at Nzone for kids up to age 11, while U12/U13 meets in clubhouse at 6:30pm. Girl’s teams train Thursday at 6:30pm sharp. Innisfails monthly newsletters available from website, also new section that has action photos from the weekend see www.innisfails.ie. Please support club lotto. Articles for newsletter and website should be submitted to Email:- info@innisfails.ie Fingallians Senior football league game against Fingal Ravens was postponed due to bereavement and will now be played on Thursday at 6.45pm in Rolestown. Intermediates went down to O’Dwyers and the Juniors picked up two more league points in defeating St Colmcilles. Minor hurlers got a walkover from St Davids, U16 hurlers had good win over K.Crokes. U12A footballers drew with O.Plunketts, U10s beat St Brigids and U9s overcame St Peregrines. U8s lost out to St Sylvesters. Congratulations to the Dublin footballers and hurlers on two excellent National League wins over Fermanagh and Limerick respectively. Intermediate hurlers play Sylvesters in Broomfield Tues evening. Both Minor football teams are out on Wed. The As are home to Templeogue and Bs away to Fingal Ravens. All games at 6.45pm On Saturday at 5pm Intermed hurlers play K.Crokes in league in Silver Park while Senior footballers take on N.Barrog away in AIB cup. Also at same time Intermed footballers are in Joy Cup action at Russell Pk against Brigids. On Sunday Minor A footballers play Ballinteer St John in Marley Pk and Minor Bs face St James Gaels at home – both games at 11am. Junior footballers are home to Skerries at 12.30 in Parson cup and finally Junior hurlers are scheduled to start their campaign away to St Brendans in Grangegorman at 3pm. Fingallians Football and Hurling Easter Camp takes place Mon 2nd to Thurs 5th April. Times are 10am to 2pm each day. Cost is 40 euro per child (member) and 50 euro per child (non member). An added attraction is a Giant Easter Egg Hunt. Last chance to renew membership before 31st March to qualify for tickets for all-ticket games this year. With Dublin footballers and hurlers in good form you might regret not being able to get tickets !! One winner of the Club Lotto jackpot last week collected 1,278 euro. The 5 numbers drawn were 5,8,11,12 and 14. This week’s jackpot is 1,252 euro. Irish Traditional Music session at 10pm on Wednesday. On Saturday night Cactus Jacks will play in the members bar. On Sunday night 1st April Harmony won’t be "Fooling Around". They will be providing the music for the liveliest Sunday night dance in Dublin in our hall. Well done to Minor squads on a successful sponsored mountain trek in Wicklow and thanks to "Sherpa" Kelly for security duties. Lastly, Liam Connor reports that additional security initiatives implemented following the Belfast "Scone Robbery" prevented a repeat in Limerick. St. Sylvesters Well done to the Senior Team who had a good away win against Round Towers and to the Junior 5 footballers who had a good home win against Ballyboughal. Well done also to the U14 and U16 Hurlers who both had good home wins. Our U16’s will play the Semi Final of the Football Championship against St. Vincents on Saturday 31st March in Bridgefield at 3.30pm. Please support. The Annual General Meeting of the Club will be held on Thursday 29th March 2007 at 8.30pm. Please attend. Last weeks Lotto was not won but 15 people had three numbers. This weeks jackpot will be 2,000 euro. Membership is now overdue. Please submit your annual subs as soon as possible. An Easter camp will be held in Broomfield from Tuesday 3rd to Thursday 5th April. Please see the club website (www.stsylvesters.ie) for details and application forms. An Easter fundraising Bingo session in support of the senior citizens will be held in the Club next Friday 30th March at 8.30pm. Books 8 euro for adults and 4 euro for children. Please support. Fingal Ravens Minors play Fingallians at 6.45pm Wednesday in Rolestown and Scoil Ui Chonaill at 11am Sunday in Rolestown. Senior team play Fingallians at 6.45pm this Thursday in Rolestown and Ballymun Kickhams at 5pm on Saturday in Pairc Ciceam. Junior team play Sylvesters at 12.30pm on Sunday in Broomfield. All membership is now due for 2007, please see Declan O’Brien, your team mentor or any committee member, all players must have their membership paid by 31st March at the latest, only fully paid up members will be entitled to order tickets for Dublin championship matches On the recent death of Moya Walsh the club would like to offer our condolences to her family, adult matches were called off last weekend as a mark of respect. Lotto no’s were 12, 30, 34, and 40, there was no winner. 20 euro to Joe Kavanagh, Pamela Clarke and Derek Cooke, sellers prize of 20 euro to Eric Tierney. Information on Euphony Communications has been added to the club website and can be accessed by clicking on the link in the menu on www.fingalravens.com <http://www.fingalravens.com/> Skerries Harps Congrats to the U14 girls footballers who won the Div 1. Shield Final replay on Monday last. They overcame a strong Scoil Ui Chonaill team by beating them 5-06 to 4-04. Intermediate team beat St Peregrines 2-09 to 1-09. Juniors were beaten by St Marks 1-10 to 0-05. Mixed results in the Juvenile section this week-end with wins in football (boys)for the U8 v Donaghmore, U10 v Ballymun Kickhams, U12(1) v Scoil Ui Chonaill, U12 (2) V Na Fianna. U9's were beaten by St Margaret's. In Camogie U14's lost to St Judes. U14 Hurlers beat Faughs. U16 lost to St Sylvesters and U15 lost to Thomas Davis. Minor footballers play away to Raheny this Wed. @6.45pm. Adult Hurlers play Raheny at home on Thurs. @ 6.45. Intermediate team play away to Garristown on Sat 31st Mar @ 4pm. A School of Excellence will be held over the Easter Holidays for Boys and Girls in Football, Camogie and Hurling. Those born in 1991 to 1994 inclusive and are fully paid up Club members are eligible. The School will take place from 10.30 to 1.00 on the following dates - 3/4th April - Boys Football, 5/6th April Camogie, 10/11th April Hurling and 12/13th April Girls Football. Names to G.P.O. Dan Davoren or Denis Forde. Registration for the next term of the Juvenile Academy will take place in the Clubhouse on Sat. next 31st March from 10am to 12 noon and on Thurs. 19th April from 8pm to 9pm. Fashion Show this Tues 27th Mar. in Skerries Rugby Club @ 8.30pm. Zingo results for w/e 24th Mar - 4,3,7,1,6,2,5 Jackpot 7,250 euro No winner. Speedy recovery to Joe McGovern. Our sympathy is extended to the O'Boyle family on their recent bereavement Round Towers This year we are organising an Easter Camp for the first time. It will cater for 7-12 year olds.The camp takes place on April 3, 4 and 5, from 10.00 to 2 pm each day, with gaelic football and hurling. Sign up now as places are limited, contact Shane Treanor GPO 0877874211. There was no winner of this weeks Lotto Jackpot. Next weeks jackpot is worth 6,500 euro and tickets are available from the bar or from the usual sellers. A great night was had by all who attended the comedy hypnotist, Adrian Knight on Friday night. Thanks to everyone who supported the night. U8 Man O’ War Man O War U8s drew with Lusk at the weekend. Man O War started this match in determined fashion with a goal and a point early on from the prolific Robert Clinton who had a great performance in midfield. However once Lusk settled in and got to grips with their opponents , they also got onto the scoreboard with 3 lovely points in a row. From there on to the finish the play swung from one end to the other with Lusk getting the upper hand despite some excellent defending from Evin Farren and Paddy in the Man O war defence. The skill level shown and in particular the number of blocks from both sides was to be admired. With the game nearing the final whistle, and Lusk defending a narrow lead, Robert Cinton converted a free to equalise the match for the Man O War. For Man o War, Killian Everard and Eoghan Redmond played well in the forward line while Ciaran Murphy and Aoife Keogh marshalled the defence. Many Thanks to Lusk for a competitive match and we look forward to a return match in Lusk soon. Camogie Dublin news Tough luck on the Dublin girls who lost to Tipperary in Div 1A and 1B of National League games played at Toomevara on Sunday despite great first half performances. Dublin’s next outings in the National league Div 1A and 1B will be away to Galway on 8th April. Best of luck to the Dublin girls who play Wexford on Sunday 1st April in the Leinster Senior Championship final at a Wexford venue to be decided. Training for Senior panels as follows - 1A panel on Wednesday and Friday night, 1B panel on Monday night ans Saturday morning. Opportunities for players who wish to be considered for either of our intercounty Senior teams - contact, Cathaoirleach, Marie O’Brien at 187-4121492. Next Juvenile and County Board meetings will take place on Monday, 16 April in Parnell Park at the usual times. 
