sport football
{ John O'Brien 
    February 08 2014 10:05 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/a-lot-done-but-more-still-to-do-29992617.html }
IN his rugby column around the turn of the year, Jim Glennon turned his thoughts to the season ahead. He saw three vital strands: the progress of the provinces in the troubled Heineken Cup, Ireland tackling the Six Nations for the first time under Joe Schmidt's guiding hand and their female equivalent's intriguing Grand Slam defence. Glennon ranked them in order of importance – the Ireland men first, the women second and the provinces completing the list.  To Glennon, the order seemed logical and justifiable: international ahead of provincial every time, regardless of gender. But he knew rugby people too and he knew that such a small, subtle thing would not escape their attention. "Ah jaysus Jim," was the gist of the reaction. "The women ahead of the provinces. What were you thinking?" If it got hardened minds thinking, though, then Glennon was happy it had served a purpose. A year on from their historic Grand Slam, it's tempting to see the enhanced column inches and the fact they'll play two of their Six Nations games in Twickenham and the Aviva Stadium and conclude the Ireland women's rugby team has reaped huge rewards. And yet, after years of neglect and lip service, the most apposite reaction is merely to thank the stars for small mercies and to refuse to get carried away by what seems nothing more than common sense. For years Glennon has been bemused by this country's sporting culture. Male-dominated clubs that effectively catered for half the population across a nine-month season. It made no sense. Clubs operating at a fraction of maximum efficiency was a simple recipe for disaster. Opening up to the other half, he reasoned, meant embracing not just a fresh and vital revenue stream but a new influx of energy and expertise too. "It's not rocket science," Glennon says. "I mean, the GAA recognised this a generation ago. They've made huge strides in women's football and camogie. Women are there on a much more equal footing now. The old clichés of women being tea-makers or washing clothes are fast disappearing. They're been co-opted onto committees. They're becoming decision-makers in their own right. That's ground-breaking, but it's taken 20 years to achieve." Eleven years ago, Glennon was a member of a Joint Oireachtas Committee that deliberated on the issue of female participation in sport. One of those invited to address the Committee was Maeve Kyle and, in Kyle's remarkable story, it seemed possible to locate a Year Zero. In a way progress was easy to measure because they were working off such a low base. Kyle told them of her joyous upbringing in Kilkenny and of the blossoming talent that helped her smash the sporting glass ceiling and become Ireland's first female Olympian in 1956 in Melbourne, smiling as she recalled the anonymous letter writer in The Irish Times brandishing her "a disgrace to Irish motherhood" before she set off for Tokyo eight years later, an inspiration to a generation of female athletes who followed her. The Joint Committee's report was an extension of research conducted by Gina Menzies five years earlier. A former Ireland international squash player, Menzies had been commissioned by Bernard Allen, then minister for sport, to investigate the barriers women faced when it came to sport, a response to developments taking place internationally. Menzies recalls a conference she attended where she had a bizarre exchange with the board members – all male naturally – of one of the Olympic sports, a comically grim encounter that indicated the magnitude of the task ahead of them. "I remember one of the men said to me, 'You know we said to women to come along to our AGM. Come on board, get on the committee'. I asked when it was taking place. At 10pm on a Tuesday night in a pub. No women came along and they couldn't understand why. I said maybe you need to stand back a little and ask what are the obstacles to the lack of women's involvement. Well, there's one for a start." That the landscape has altered in the intervening years is undeniable. And in strange and exciting ways. A while back Glennon was talking to a man who had been trying unsuccessfully to enroll his three daughters in various hockey clubs around south Dublin, full-up signs everywhere he went. If they weren't on a waiting list by two, he was told, the chances of finding a club could be slim. That huge numbers of young girls are flocking to the sport is confirmed by the Irish Hockey Union. At underage level, Leinster showed growth of 11 per cent in 2013, 13 per cent the year before. "We have 6,500 girls under 18 now playing in Leinster," says Sue Haslam, Leinster development officer. "And it's not just in Dublin. In places like Kilkenny and Enniscorthy, there's been a good pick-up too." The numbers bring issues, of course. In the past couple of years they've established new clubs in Stillorgan and Churchtown catering for 200 girls between them, although the problem of inveigling parents on board to form committees, the lack of facilities and funding are constant irritants. Problems, though, they'd rather have than not. "Exactly," says Haslam. "You hate to think there's someone out there who wants to play and isn't being catered for. That's the challenge facing us." Right now growth in girls' sport is a big story. In boxing, the 'Katie Taylor effect' has been well-documented, largely explaining a near 10-fold increase in the number of female boxers in the past eight years. For the first time ever, Taylor is likely to face competition in the upcoming National Championships. In soccer, the FAI recently appointed a female deputy CEO while two female coaches, Eileen Gleeson and Sue Ronan, are on the verge of receiving UEFA Pro licences. Then there is the shining jewel of ladies' football. Back in 1996, when the organisation was just 20 years old, a Department of Education survey revealed that only one per cent of females who were physically active chose football as their preferred activity. Now the LGAA has 153,000 registered members, a spike of five per cent in the last two years, and more remarkable than the distance they've travelled is the ambition they harbour to go further. "We still feel we're nowhere near where we can reach," says Derek Kinneavy, PRO for the Ladies Gaelic Football Association. "We're very driven to reach as high as we can. We've great sponsors in TG4 and Tesco. Last year 17 championship games were televised, that's a great achievement. We've a Gaelic4Girls programme for under 12s aimed at clubs in areas where participation is low. We've a national development plan that shows what we aspire to and one of those things is to have 40,000 at an All-Ireland final by 2016. It's within reach." Kinneavy makes an interesting point. Unlike other sports, football's popularity has never depended on pioneering achievements on the global stage like Taylor's Olympic gold medal. The LGFA ethos stresses the health and social benefits of participation as much as the competitive aspect of playing. When the available data suggests that the drop-out rate in sport is far more acute among young girls than their male equivalents, the challenge for sports is to sustain interest into teenage years and beyond. While there is no formal link between participation and the elite end of competition, it seems logical to assume that the more girls taking part, the greater the chance of producing another Katie Taylor or Derval O'Rourke. When the Joint Committee produced its report in 2003, for example, it noted just 30 per cent of athletes receiving Sports Council grants were female. In 2013, that figure had risen to just short of 40. This is good news, of course, but getting more female involvement doesn't solve everything on its own. Sarah O'Connor, Irish Federation of Sport CEO, points to research in the UK which suggests only one per cent of total corporate sponsorship is fed into women's sport. Studies also show that male sport hogs 95 per cent of media coverage while in the boardrooms of public sports bodies, women hold just 20 per cent of the positions. "There are a lot of interesting questions to ask," she says. "There is sports council research that shows a tiny proportion of females become coaches or managers. A lot of them become club secretaries, they still make the tea, but not many are coaches. Why is that? What can we do to encourage more women coaches? A man coaching a female team is normal, but it would be seen as peculiar if a female was coaching a male team. I see no reason why that shouldn't happen." That old way of thinking may be fading now, but it is a gradual process, the last rites still some distance off. When she addressed the Joint Committee in 2003, one of Menzies' suggestions was the creation of a women's sports' award and it pleased her to see The Irish Times annual award being introduced a short time later. Maybe those little victories were the only way forward. Little steps that, eventually joined together, would make a vital and substantial difference. "Two other things struck me," she says now looking back. "My own childhood was full of sport because my own mother was very sporty and I grew up assuming it was a natural part of my life. I remember asking the committee which country at that time had most female participants. The answer surprised many. It was Norway. "I think the difference is now we do have some really impressive female role models in many sports. But ensuring every female – and male – child is given sporting opportunities is an ideal to achieve. I do think there have been many changes for the better and I know the current minister, Michael Ring, is a very strong supporter of women's involvement." Ultimately, if there is a bottom line, paraphrasing the old Fianna Fáil slogan seems apt. A lot done for sure, but unquestionably so much more to do. Irish Independent 
