sport football
{  
    March 09 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/youths-demand-variety-in-sport-27051351.html }
THE most major survey of youth-needs ever carried out in Muskerry showed a major number of young people enjoyed traditional sport such as GAA, along with a very significant number who felt that those who did not partake in sports did not have many other alternatives.The survey also showed that many young people were demanding sports other than the main sports of football and THE most major survey of youth-needs ever carried out in Muskerry showed a major number of young people enjoyed traditional sport such as GAA, along with a very significant number who felt that those who did not partake in sports did not have many other alternatives. The survey also showed that many young people were demanding sports other than the main sports of football and would like to see sports such as badminton, tennis and rugby introduced to the town. The girls overall broke down into two fairly even categories with a major 24% saying they play GAA, either camogie or football while a significantly high 16% said there was nothing for them to do. The survey showed that between the ages of 11 and 14 years, 62% of males enjoy GAA football while 28% of females partake in GAA. Among the junior females swimming featured strongly with 20% saying they like this sport, while a mere 3% of males mentioned that they liked this activity. Soccer was also important to junior males with a whopping 56% saying they participated in this sport. In the senior category sporting tastes were similar to that of the junior section with a major 34% of senior males saying they played either football, hurling or soccer. However, it seems that females are more likely to drop out of sporting activities when they are older, with 21% of females saying they did not participate in any activities, while only 3% of males replying affirmative to the same question. The replies by the individual pupils, all of which were given anonymously, mirrored a divergence between those who were satisfied with current activities and those who were not. On Macroom girl, aged 12 years said: “I play the piano and violin and take speech and drama classes and I take swimming lessons”. But another said: “I do no activities because there is nothing to do and so we do nothing.” The majority of replies, however were in the mixed category similar to that of one 14-year-old boy who said: “I play soccer, hurling and football and I help my father on the farm.” However, the survey pointed out that the proposed sports complex to be developed at the McEgan College hall would seem to be aware of the need for a sports-for-all ethic and had proposed keep-fit regimes which would cater for all age groups and tastes. A very definite minority of young people took the opportunity during the survey to suggest that Macroom “is provided for in terms of sports facilities and that the town should concentrate from now on developing something other than sports”, the report stated. When asked what services or activities young people would like to see introduced into the town, the girls responded as follows – basketball 10%, tennis 8%, girls soccer 5.5%, and more sports for girls 3.5%. Others requested badminton 3.5% and horse-riding 2%. Boys on the other hand suggested rugby 7%, better sports facilities 7%, basketball 5%, and motor sports 5%. A major 14% of the boys aged between 11 and 14 suggested a Macroom hurling team and another 10% of the same group suggested tennis. 
