sport football
{  
    July 07 2015 10:38 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/localnotes/around-the-districts-31360635.html }
Oulart Féile Mass/Coirm Cheoil On Saturday evening, June 27, having completed their fixtures in the Feile Peil na nÓg competition, Oulart-The Ballagh and Ballinamore, Co. Leitrim, under-14 boys, along with their mentors, parents and supporters, came together in St Patrick's Church to attend Mass, celebrated by Fr Paddy Browne, PP Oulart. Music was provided by young local musicians and players from both clubs participated in the ceremony. Later that evening, following a barbecue and hurling exhibition at the Upper Pitch, entertainment was provided in Oulart Community Centre, where the audience was treated to a feast of traditional music, song and dance by Ceoltóirí an Abhalloirt - boys and girls from the locality - led by Scoil Mochua  teachers Hamish Stuart, Kevin Nimmo and Nóirín Lenihan. Among the highlights of the evening were the rendition by the band of "Five in-a-row" composed by Mr Stuart to commemorate the historic record-making achievements of Oulart-The Ballagh senior hurlers 2009-2013 and the singing by Faith and Shona of the "Battle of Oulart Hill", recently composed by Kevin Whitty. The acts were introduced by Breda Jacob (PRO, Oulart-The Ballagh GAA) who also spoke briefly about the sporting history of the club. Elizabeth Ormonde, chairperson of Coiste na nÓg, and her counterpart from Co. Leitrim brought proceedings to a close by exchanging suitably inscribed plaques, having complimented and thanked all the helpers, hosts and participants in Féile and expressing the hope that the friendships made during Féile would flourish into the future. Model County Draw Oulart-The Ballagh had three winners in the June Draw. Wexford and Oulart-The Ballagh Senior hurler David Redmond won €200  as did The Ballagh quartet of "Pauline, Mary, Eddie & Martin" while Jimmy and Lucy Bolger, Tinnick, won €150. Thanks again to all who supported the draw. Your generosity is much appreciated. Leinster Final Best wishes to Wexford Under-21 hurlers in the Leinster Final versus Kilkenny in Wexford Park on Wednesday, July 8, at 7.30pm. The Loch Garman team is aiming for "three-in a-row" of Leinster victories. Extra time must be played if the sides finish level. Invitation to tender All interested persons are invited to tender for development works at Oulart-The Ballagh GAA Club. Tender documents are available from David Tobin at Mahon & Co, 087 7943449 Get-Well Wishes Best wishes for a speedy return to full health to all the parishioners who are sick, at home or in hospital. The thoughts and prayers of neighbours and friends are with you all. For reasons of security and out of respect for the privacy of the individuals, names will not be mentioned in the local notes unless requested by the persons involved or by their families. Advance Notice Oulart Senior Citizens Committee intends to hold a breakfast morning in Oulart Community Centre on August 9. All proceeds will go towards the annual senior citizens party. Further details will be in these notes closer to the date. Coiste na nÓg Elizabeth Ormonde, Coiste chairperson, sends this message:  "On behalf of Oulart-The Ballagh Coiste na nÓg (under-age hurling) I would like to say a massive thank you to all the parents/guardians for their hard work and support over the past months, with fund raising and with the Féile Peil. "Our fundraisers were all very successful: the cake sale raised €830, the lotto tickets €530 and the breakfast morning in Oulart Community Centre was a huge success, realising €1,500. I would also like to say a huge thank you to all the people who gave us sponsorship towards our fundraising - we are indebted to you for your support. "Last weekend we hosted a team from Ballinamore, Leitrim for the Féile and it was a fantastic success. The under-14 boys had a brilliant weekend representing the club and their conduct and play on and off the field was highly commendable. Thank you also to the team manager and mentors for their diligence and hard work." Ballagh Boxing Club The golf classic was a great success and the boxing club extends its gratitude to all who participated. Heartiest congratulations to all the winners. It is hoped to see everyone back again next year. Congratulations to the following winners: GUI Golfers: (1) Patrick Fortune & team. (2) Butch O Connor & team (3) Tony Hutchinson & team. NGUI Golfers: (1) Andrew Kavanagh & team, Tomas Dunne & team, Pat Laffan & team, Mick Redmond & team. Camogie Fixtures Best of luck to Oulart-The Ballagh camogie teams in the following fixtures. July 7, under-10 v St Ibar's (away). July 9, under-16 v Glynn-Barntown (away). July 10, under-12 v Kilrush (away). July 20 Senior v Buffer's Alley (home). July 21, Junior v Rathnure (away). July 21, under-10 v Blackwater (home). July 23, under-16 v St Ibar's (home). Anyone with queries regarding training or matches should enquire from management or players or contact the camogie phone at 087 9142899 Ballymurn Mass Times Mass Times as follows: Tuesday 7.30pm. Thursday 9.30am. Saturday 9.30am and 8.15pm. Sunday 10am Gaa Notes Under-6 hurling training every Monday night in Crossabeg pitch from 6:45 to 7:45pm. Please contact Fergus at 087 6750700 for more information. Ladies' Football Crossabeg-Ballymurn Ladies' Gaelic Football Club would like to thank anyone who helped out before and during the Feile weekend, particularly the men's club, the Oylegate-Glenbrien club for inviting the girls to the disco on Saturday evening, to all the parents from both parishes for hosting our visitors on Friday and Saturday nights and to all the people who provided and dished out food in the hall. I'm sure lots of friendships were started with girls keeping in touch with each other on Snapchat, Facebook etc with the girls from Mungret.  U-8 and U-10 football training continues next Wednesday at 6-30pm in the Crossabeg community pitches. U-16s on Wednesday's from 7.30 to 8.30 in Ballymurn. Adults on Wednesdays from 7.30 to 8.30 and Saturday's 6.30 to 7.30 in Ballymurn. These are the times generally but sometimes they will change and managers will inform their teams if this arises. All new members are welcome, either call to the field on training evenings or contact club secretary Ann Doyle. The club is also looking for old handbags, shoes, belts or clothes to also help raise funds. They can be handed in at the coffee evening. For more information contact any committee member. Tidy Towns Tidy Towns meets every Tuesday evening at 7pm, weather permitting, in the village. Everyone very welcome. Great progress is being made with our plans for this year. Thanks to everyone involved in moving the Ballymurn welcome stone, lots of painting and weeding going on. PILATES CLASSES Classes continue on Mondays from 10 to 11am in Ballymurn hall. This class is suitable for beginners, an individual class where you can progress at your own rate. Pay as you go available. Contact Debbie Murphy at 086 8122535. Ballymurn Celtic Ballymurn Players for the coming season may sign up and pay their membership in full or start installments. The club is hoping to set up a youths' soccer team this year. Any players or parents have any questions please ring Vincent Quirke on 0877608628. Irish Night There will be an Irish night in the Anvil Pub, Ballymurn, on Friday, July 24. Why not come along and enjoy the craic Deepest Sympathy Deepest sympathy is extended to the Cummins Family, Ballylucas, on the passing of Bill Cummins. May he rest in peace. Dates for your Diary Patron in Ballymurn on Sunday, August 16. Crossabeg  Soccer The new soccer season is nearly upon us. Pre-season training for Crossabeg AFC members begins on Sunday, July 19, at 11 a.m. All senior players should attend and new players are more than welcome.For further queries please contact John Doyle at 086 2838741. New Arrival We send our congratulations to Mary and Eoin Quigley, Randalls Mill, Crossabeg, on the birth of their first child, a son, born last week.  St Killian's AC  It was a super couple of days for St Killian's athletes young and old who were competing in numerous different competitions. Pride of place has to go to Jack Forde, who showed great resilience, dedication and focus to take gold in the national under-13 high jump final held in Tullamore last weekend. This is simply a super performance from Jack, who has been in great form all year but had to be strong to deal with injury in order to ensure his victory. Well done to Jack and the coaches in the club who worked hard to make this happen. At the Wexford senior track and field championships, Jean Dwyer had a great performance to claim second in senior high jump and second in under-18 long jump. Aoileann Hourihane took bronze in the under-18 long jump and Ann-Marie Nolan took bronze in the 3000m walk. Niall Sheil took gold in the masters' 1500m with Will Doyle and Anne Marie Nolan competing in the 1500m also. Niall Sheil travelled to Dungarvan on Friday last to compete in the 23rd annual and infamous marine climb. The six-mile race culminates in a three-mile uphill finish and is not for the faint hearted. In a competitive field Niall took the title of "king of the hill" from Brian Murphy from Carrick-on-Suir and Raivis Zakis of West Waterford AC. Jay Kehoe was in action last weekend in Waterford where he competed in the Viking half marathon.  Jay had a great race but unfortunately was sent the wrong way and ended up running 23k in 84 minutes. If he had not been misled he would have definitely finished the half in a PB time. Lastly, well done to Padraig Moriarty who competed on Sunday last in the national half-ironman triathlon. Padraig had a great race finishing in 4hrs 40mins and fourth in his category. Well done to all.  Homecoming Week The Crossabeg Homecoming week began yesterday (Monday, July 6) and will continue during the week, finishing up on Saturday, July 11. The organising committee have drawn up a programme of events, catering for all age groups, young and older alike. Tonight, Tuesday, July 7, all eyes will be focused on the Festival Queen contestants. This event will be held in Sinnotts field (opposite Foleys bar) and the contestants for the event will be escorted on to the field in horse drawn carriages, led by a lone piper. This event is open to all young ladies aged between 18 and 26 years, from those living in the parish and beyond. Supporters are also invited to dress up in vintage dress, which is optional, for the occasion. There will be a barbecue, Celtic music and a raffle. Again proceedings begin at 7.30 p.m. On Wednesday, July 8, at 7.30 p.m. the community field is the venue for underage hurling and soccer matches. As well as that there will be Horseshoe competitions and Skittles events taking place. Plenty to keep all members of the family entertained. Again a raffle will be held. Thursday evening is free. On Friday, July 10, there will be a poker session and raffle in Foley's bar at 8.30 p.m. Then the weeks events will draw to a close on Saturday, July 11, with the "Grand Finale", the presentation of medals by the newly crowned Festival Queen to the underage hurling and soccer winners. This will take place once again in Sinnotts field at 9 p.m. There will be a casual music session, a barbecue and raffle later on in Foleys bar. Parishioners are asked to lend their support. Whist  Results of play at the community centre on Wednesday night of last week. Polly Maher (top score) Michael Galvin (1st gent) Molly Murphy (2nd gent) Joan Pierce/Sean Reck (3rd gent) Mary Morrissey (1st lady) Stella Nolan (2nd lady) Kathleen McDonald (3rd lady) Betty Butler (last three games) Trish Furlong (hatchers) Stella Nolan, Sean Reck, Polly Maher, Kathleen McDonald (raffle)  Community Games  Hard luck to the under-13 Chess team who lost out 3-2 to a team from The Downs, Co. Westmeath in the Leinster team semi-final played in Newbridge, Co. Kildare, on Saturday last. The under-11 hurling team, also from the area. were competing in the A section of the competition but went down in their semi-final match to Shinrone-Coolderry, Co. Offaly, on a 3-4 to 4-6 scoreline.  Over the Water Development Lotto Lotto draw results for Sunday, June 28, for Curracloe United AFC were as follows: 7, 20, 21 and 27. There was no jackpot winner and three match-three winners who received €50 each, Suzanne Salley, c/o Curracloe Tavern; Mabel Lyons,Ballinamorragh, Curracloe and Rose Delaney, Coolrainey, Curracloe.  Appreciation  The Carers Association would like to thank all who contributed to its recent churchgate collection taken up in Castlebridge. The amount raised was €265. Your generous donations are greatly appreciated.  Summer Camp There are only a couple of weeks left for families to book for the FAI summer soccer camp at Bridge Rovers Soccer club which takes place from August 10 to August 4. Visit summersoccerschools.ie to avoid disappointment and to be guaranteed a stylish Sports World soccer kit. Castlebridge Show  Continuing their extensive range of events to coincide with the 75th anniversary of the Castlebridge Show the local committee welcome back Syl Doyle from Wilton garden centre in Bree for his second visit to the community garden in Castlebridge tonight, Tuesday, July 7, beginning at 8 p.m. where he will again impart his great knowledge of vegetable growing. Syl will be joined at the talk by local man Colin O'Connor from Screen, who will outline the essential ingredients for good soil preparation and soil enrichment. A warm welcome is extended to all in the parish to the talks and demonstrations. Admission is free and tea and refreshments will be served afterwards. The committee's programme of events changes next week with the emphasis on home baking when Declan Dempsey, Pettitt's SuperValu head baker, will give a class and demonstration on the skill of home baking including bread making. This demonstration will take place in the community centre, Castlebridge, on Wednesday, July 15, at 8 p.m. Further details next week.  Ladies' Football The Shelmaliers ladies' football club members would like to extend their gratitude to everyone who helped out up to and during the Feile weekend which was held in Hollymount on June 26 and 27. A massive effort was put in by the committee, the volunteers who provided food, the stewards and also the parents of the under-14s, who were hosting the visitors from Crosserlough, Co. Cavan, as well as the Coiste na nOg section, who were hosting their own team from Laois. Special thanks to the Shelmalier School of Music who were there on the day to provide first class entertainment to the guests as they arrived. A great weekend was had thanks to the hard work put in by all concerned. Well done to the U12, U16, U18 & Juniors, all of whom played championship games last week. Best of luck to the U14s, who play Clonard next week.  Curracloe school news  Curracloe national school bade farewell to the sixth class children last week and were sorry to see them go but wished them all the best in secondary school. The teachers would also like to take this opportunity to extend a huge thank you to each and every family for all their support throughout the last school year. It has been a very busy and enjoyable year. Enjoy the summer break and they look forward to seeing you all in September.  Art summer camp  An art summer camp takes place from Monday, July 20, to Friday, July 24, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in Castlebridge Community Centre. This camp is suitable for children from seven to 11 years old. The cost is €50 and activities will include drawing, painting, marbling, tie n dye, clay modelling, card making, doll making, collage, construction, learning about famous artists and much more. To book please call 087 6996698. Booking is essential as numbers are limited.  Vintage news Over The Water Vintage Club is planning a bus trip to the All-Ireland Vintage Rally in Street, Co. Westmeath, on Sunday, July 12. Bus seats will be filled on a "first come, first served" basis. For further details please contact Nicky at 086 2847368 or Martin at 085 1740984.  Show Queen  Calling all local businesses and clubs in the Castlebridge area. Don't forget to enter a contestant in the Castlebridge Show Queen final which will be held on Saturday, July 18, at 8 p.m in Hotel Curracloe. There will be many fantastic prizes to be won. This competition forms part of the Castlebridge Show's 75th celebrations, so don't miss out. Shelmalier Field Day  The annual Shelmalier Field Day, which takes place on Sunday next, July 12, in Hollymount at 1 p.m always brings out large crowds to the local GAA grounds for one of the social events of the year in the parish. So you are invited to go along for a great family fun day out with something for everyone. The fifth annual Shelmalier sheep racing festival is always a big attraction with the local punters both young and old, with reports from Curracloe that all the sheep are in excellent racing condition this year. The large range of stalls include garden vegetables, baking, bric a brac, books, flowers and plants offer the visitors the best of bargain prices. If its good food you are looking try the finest homemade burgers, teas and cakes, sweets and ice-creams on offer by the catering staff. Listen to DJs Katie and Nigel supplying the best of music on the big stage while trying out your skills on the various games. Display your hurling and football skills including the famous crossbar challenge or take part in the annual sports events.  A special attraction this year is the Charity Auction where there will be bargains galore with a large range of household, gardening and electrical items on offer. Camogie win Members of the Shelmalier club would like to congratulate Kate Kelly, Bridget Curran, Aine Lacey, Katriona Parrock, Ciara Donohoe and Deirdre McMahon and Wexford's camogie team on their fine performance against Limerick in Wexford Park on Saturday last. Bridget was outstanding in defence, while Aine, Kate and Katriona contributed greatly to Wexford's forward play, with Kate winning the 'Player of the Match' award. The management team was served by Shelmalier man John Kelly who is one of the selectors of the team.  Split the Pot winners Recent winners in the Screen-Curracloe parish Split the Pot competition were Michaela Bartkova on June 12 who won €366; Kieran & Mary Cullen on June 19 who won €316 and Rose Delaney on June 26 who won €322. Envelopes are available in Freddie's of Screen, C & C Screen, Cloneys, Curracloe Post Office, Furlongs bar and Hotel Curracloe.  Community Alert  Due to the huge interest and attendance by parishioners in the Castlebridge area at the Text Alert registration night, the committee has decided to hold yet another night to cater for those who could not attend. The next session will take place on Tuesday, July 14, in Castlebridge community centre between 7.30 and 8.30 p.m. Bree & Galbally Seisiun returns The Comhaltas Seisiún sessions, in association with Celtic Roots, return to Bree Community Centre on this Tuesday night, July 7, and continue weekly on Tuesday nights at 8.30pm for the months of July and August. Each session begins with the serving of scones and tea or coffee followed by a full programme of music, song, dance and storytelling. Cost is €10 for adults with concessions for large groups and children. For bookings and further details contact 087 7535354. Bree Tennis Camp A tennis camp has commenced at Bree Community Centre Courts for ages five to 17 and will run for four weeks. For information ring or text Shonagh at 0872508678. Ballybrennan Patron The annual Ballybrennan patron will take place on Friday, July 24, with Mass and blessing of the graves beginning at 7.30pm in the Graveyard. Bree United The club would like to thank all players, managers, parents and everyone who helped with the recent Mini World Cup. It was a huge success and a great day had by all.  Paediatric First Aid If anyone is interested in taking a one day Paediatric First Aid Course please contact Elaine in Bree CEP/Parish Office at 053 9247613. If sufficient numbers are interested this will run on a date during the summer or in September in the Community Centre - costing approx €50 per person. Barn Dance  A Country & Western Barn dance will be held in Garry Byrne's store on Saturday,  September 5. The band on the night will be the Colonials followed by a disco till late. Don't miss a great night's fun.  National Medals Six Bree AC athletes won medals at the All Ireland Pairs competition for U9-U11s which took place recently in Tullamore. Gracie Kehoe and Grace Donohoe won silver medals in the U10 Turbo Javelin. Gracie then teamed up with Abbie Doyle to win the bronze medals in the U10 60m Sprint. Sean Rowley and Shane Doran also won the bronze medals in the U11 60m Sprint and Sean partnered Ryan Whelan to take the bronze medals in the U11 Long Jump. At the County 'B' Championships (U9-13) which were held in the Sport's Hub in Enniscorthy on Friday evening week last Bree AC was well represented. Results were as follows; U9 Joanne Chapman 1st 60m, Long Jump, Katie Nolan 2nd 60m, Luke Carr 3rd Turbo Jav; U10 Fionn Andrews 1st 60m, Turbo Jav, Dylan Carr 2nd 300m, 3rd Long Jump: U11 Robbie Chapman 1st 60m, Long Jump: U12 Fionn Andrews 2nd 60m, Long Jump; U13 Katie Whelan 1st 60m, Turbo Jav, Agata Farioli 2nd 300m, 3rd Long Jump. Gold relay medals were won by Robbie and Craig, Silver relay medals were won by Joanne, Katie Nolan, Luke, Leah Bolger and Craig and bronze medals were won by Katie Whelan, Agata, Robbie, Fionn and Craig. Well done to all involved. Well done to Sophie McCabe who has qualified for the Schools International which takes place in Scotland on the 17th July. Little Athletics in the top field finishes on this Wednesday, 8th July for the summer season. Bree Active Retirement Visitation of the Elderly in the Community has recommenced in recent weeks with two participants from Bree CEP, Sue and Annabel, calling on some of the elderly in the Community. This is a service organised in conjunction with the Active Retirement Group. If there is anyone who would like to be visited or perhaps you have a family member who would like to avail of this service please let the CEP Office know at 053 9247613. GAA News The next lottery draw takes place on Wednesday, July 8, in Byrne's of Bree at 9 30pm. Jackpot remains at a massive €10,000. Tickets available in all local shops and from committee members. Glenbrien Pat Coady Golf Classic The Pat Coady golf classic will take place on Friday, July 10, at Enniscorthy Golf Club. A team of four costs €160 and this includes a meal. All proceeds from the classic will go to County Wexford Hospice Homecare and Mental Health. Anyone interested in taking part are asked to contact Eamonn Mernagh for available tee times. Oylegate Social Dancing Sunday night, July 12, is the next date for social dancing in Oylegate Community Centre. Music for the occasion is by the very popular Thomas Maguire and Fiona Ennis, and we are delighted to welcome them to Oylegate. Dancing from 9.30p.m. Admission is €8 with the usual tasty refreshments served. Come along and enjoy a great night. Oylegate United AGM Oylegate United (men's and schoolboys') will hold its annual general meeting on Saturday, July 11, at 8pm in Mernagh's Lounge. We ask that all existing and future adult players and a parent/guardian of each schoolboy attend the meeting. Also, anyone with an interest in local soccer is welcome to attend. Note: The Player of the Year Awards and U18 A Team Medal Presentation for 2014/2015 will take place after the AGM. ZUMBA CLASSES Zumba is returning to Oylegate Community Centre. Theresa McGuinness will be starting a weekly class, commencing on June 16 and every Tuesday thereafter. Time is 10.30 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. Cost is €6. Pay as you go. Zumba is a dance fitness class. Have fun while you get fit and feel great - you will love it. Bring lots of water. If you have and queries call Theresa at 089 9759605. GAA Lotto There was no winner of the lotto jackpot held in Mernaghs Lounge, Oylegate, on Wednesday, June 24. The lucky dip winners are Marie Rowley, Michael Doran, Erica Cunningham, Michael Kehoe, Ken Bolger, Karl Forester, Mylie Cullen and Dan Doran. The next draw will be held in The Slaney Inn, Oylegate, on Wednesday, July 8. Tickets cost just €2 each available from club members. Date for Your Diary Oylegate-Glenbrien GAA Club will hold its annual golf classic on Friday, August 28, in Wexford Golf Club.On Sunday, August 30, the club will hold its annual half marathon. Mass Times Oylegate: Saturday vigil Mass 6.30pm and Sunday Mass 10.30am. Glynn & Barntown SURF LIFESAVING Congratulations to Cameron Steel from Glynn, who, following national trials, has been selected for this year's Irish senior men's lifesaving team. The team will compete in the European Championships, which will take place this year in Wales. It covers rescue events in the pool, beach and ocean. We wish Cameron the best of luck.  GYMNASTICS SUMMER CAMP  Gymstars will be running two summer camps this year. Our first one starts on Tuesday, July 14, and the second camp begins on Tuesday, August 4. Both camps run for four days from 10am to 2pm. Camps are open to non-members and are designed to meet the needs of all kids from the beginner to the advanced. Book your place with €20 deposit. If interested please contact Joanne for a booking form at 087 9475977. See our Facebook page for all details.  CAMOGIE NEWS Glynn-Barntown under-10 camogie team played away to St Brigid's, Blackwater. Blackwater led at half time with two goals to nil, but Glynn-Barntown rallied together and fought back to win. Well done, girls. Our under-16 camogie team play at home Thursday evening, July 9, v Oulart-The Ballagh in the championship. Our junior camogie team take on Rosslare on Monday evening away while our senior ladies play the second round of the Championship v Oulart-The Ballagh in Killurin on Tuesday evening. Please support.  PLAYSCHOOL First Friends Daycare, Bulgan, Glynn, is now taking enrolments for playschool for September. We are also running a summer camp for the first three weeks in July. Please contact Marian for more information at 087 2332133. COISTE NA NÓG Our under-10 footballers will play St Fintan's-Our Lady's Island on Tuesday evening. All three under-12 football teams were in action this week with the Green Team and the Blue team playing Buffers Alley and the White team playing Clongeen. The under-16 'A' hurlers were defeated on Monday by Naomh Eanna while the 'B' team played Cloughbawn on Friday. Well done to our minor hurlers who had a comfortable win over the Shelmaliers on Wednesday in Killurin.  SENIOR GAA Our Senior hurlers played Buffer's Alley on Thursday evening in Monamolin but were defeated on the night. The junior hurlers took on Buffer's Alley on Sunday evening in Monamolin in the last league game. Hard luck to senior club and county hurling goalkeeper Mark Fanning as Wexford hurlers bowed out of the 2015 Hurling Championship at the hands of Cork last Saturday in Wexford Park. Ladies Our under-10 girls football team were beaten by Taghmon-Camross on Monday evening in Killurin despite putting up a great fight. The under-16 girls took on Gorey on Thursday evening in championship and even though they were greatly depleted through holidays they had a fantastic win.  FÉILE THANKS On behalf of the Féile Committee 2015 we would like to thank everyone who helped make Féile Peil weekend such a success. We would like to thank our sponsors, and those who contributed towards fundraising events and to especially thank our host families who opened their homes to our visitors. Thanks also to the parents of our teams who supported us whole heartedly, to our girls and boys who played on our teams, to the cake and sandwich makers and to the many helpers that gave their all in the run up to and over the weekend - it was because of you all that it turned out to be the success it was. We would also like to thank our visitors who helped make this event a really memorable one for all involved. CONDOLENCES Glynn-Barntown GAA, Camogie and Ladies' Football Clubs would like to extend their deepest condolences to Aileen and John Kennedy and their children Adam, Hazel and Sinead on the passing of Aileen's mother Mrs Mary French during the week. Ar Dheis Dé go raibh a hanam dílis. AREA NOTES Notices for the Glynn-Barntown area notes should be emailed to hillaryobrien@eircom.net - or call Hillary at 087 2028065. Murrintown Community Centre Contact 053 9139328 or email us at murrintowncommunitycentre@gmail.com and now find us on Face book or website www.murrintowncommunitycentre.weebly.com. Opening hours 9am to 1pm and 5pm to 9pm. BINGO: Every Monday night 8pm sharp to 10pm. Bus pickups at usual points. TAE-KWON-DO: Monday and Wednesday 6pm-9pm  KETTLEBELLS: Every Tuesday at 7.30-8.30pm  IRISH DANCING: Tuesdays at 4:45pm Summer camp July 13-17.  Forever Fit: Wexford Dance Fit/Body Tone on Tuesdays at 7.30 pm. All welcome. Call or Text Amanda Burke 0879713339.  Centre is available for hire for children's birthday parties. Please ring or email centre for details Piercestown St Martin's Tennis Membership at St Martin's Tennis Club is now open to new players at a reduced rate for the rest of the calendar year. Lessons with Ashley will take place on Mondays at 7 p.m. Enquiries to 087 9266055. Drama Classes Well established drama school 'Discovering Drama' is bringing its classes to Piercestown. Classes will commence every Wednesday starting this September. 10% discount for anyone who books before September and 10% discount for anyone who does summer camp as well.  ARA Annual Coach Tour. Piercestown-Murrintown ARA Club is heading West on August 29 to Breaffy House Resort Hotels, Castlebar, Co Mayo, for a three-night stay at this wonderful hotel. Price per person sharing is €250. SRS applies. Ring Mary Dempsey at 053 9158186 to book your place. Deposit of €80 secures your place. Piercestown Scout Group All sections closed for summer holidays on Thursday, June 25. Thank you to all who turned up on the night. Beaver Fionn was invested and presentations of progression, merit and skills badges were presented to boys in all sections so well done to everyone. Co-commissioner Caoimhin O'Byrne presented Chief Scout Awards to Darragh Whelan, Darragh Berry and Rian Doyle and congratulations to the boys on this great achievement. David O'Boyle also achieved but was away on the night. David will be presented with his award on his return. The group also received their SQS Excellence award and their Financial Compliance certificate for the past year. The scout section will go on their Summer Camp on August 6 so everyone is looking forward to this event. A big 'thank you' to Bernie Codd who looked after everyone with cuppa and some refreshments on the night. Registration night will be held on Thursday,  August 25, at 7pm in the Scout and Guide Hall. All boys returning and any new boys who intend joining must come along to this registration night. Registration Fee is €45 per boy, payable on the night. If you wish to put your son's name on the list for registration please contact our Group Leader, Jane Power, at 086 3265406  Scout Leaders required urgently, to join in sections Scouts & Ventures, especially in order to ensure we comply with the child protection rules and ratio of adults to children. Please contact Jane Power to discuss. If we don't have sufficient adults we may be unable to take part in hikes, outings and annual camps so the group really needs some new leaders at this time. Training will be organised for new adults joining. Places for new members will be limited unless we get new adults on board. Section meetings will resume on September 1 for Cubs/Scouts and September 3 for Beavers. Well done to everyone who took part with the group in the Topaz Cash for Clubs card collection recently. This week we won €1,000 in the Topaz Draw, so big thank you to everyone who collected cards and to Drinagh Motors, Rosslare Road. CE Scheme Piercestown Two workers are required for the CE scheme in Piercestown. Work includes village maintenance and caretaking. Contact the local Department of Social Protection. No experience necessary. Must be in receipt of welfare payment.  Hope Cancer Support Life and Loss Support morning on Tuesday, July 14, from 10.30am till 12.30pm. Contact Hope at 053 92385. Booking essential as spaces are limited. Taghmon  & Camross Dancing at Camross The July dance was one of the most successful first Friday dances to date with Liam Mannering and his band sending dancers 'home sweatin''. All patrons had a very enjoyable night both on the dance floor and mingling with one another during Tea Time. The August dance will be held on Friday, August 7, and Glen Flynn will provide music. Come along, bring your friends and have a great night for just €8 including the tea. Caroreigh Field Day The annual Caroreigh field day will be held on Sunday, July 26, and will kick off at 1.30pm with fancy dress and vintage parade led by New Ross and District Pipe Band. All the usual stalls will be in full swing to help you enjoy a most sociable afternoon. All you young athletes will have a chance to show your athletic skills in the sprints for u6,u8,u10,u12 and u14 age groups, and dog lovers take along your 'faithful friends' and enter them in the Dog Show.  Tickets for the Annual Raffle have now been distributed to all households in the area with great prizes to be won and also prizes for those who sell most tickets.  That's enough for this week but get started on your fancy dress float as valuable prize money for winners.  Golf society A reminder about our next outing which is in Tramore Golf Club on Saturday, July 11, with the first tee time at 13:30. Bring along a friend or a lapsed member as a visitor. A committee member will be in touch shortly. On June 22 the society played a three-man scramble in a resplendent Wexford Golf Club on a warm balmy evening and 35 players participated. The scoring was very tight in a keenly fought competition. The results were: 1st - Des Nash, Declan Clarke and Joe Cashin. 65.2; 2nd - Nicholas Cousins, Brendan Doyle and Tom Furlong. 65.5; 3rd - Sean Sexton, Eoin Lacey and Steve Southam. 66; 4th - Seamie McLoughlin, Marc Waters and Seamus McLoughlin. 66.2. Well done and congratulations to the winners. Taghmon Camross GAA  Our Junior B footballers were beaten by Bannow-Ballymitty last Thursday, and our intermediate football team were beaten by Rosslare. This weeks fixtures are: Jun B hurling v St James on Thursday in Mersheen at 7.30 and the Jun hurling team play Ferns in the league on Saturday at 2pm in Ferns.  There was no winner of the club Lotto last week. There were two match-three winners: Brendan Doyle, Ballyhennigan, and a winner from Bannow. Numbers were 3, 11, 18, and 21. Next week's jackpot will be €7,400.  Feile Peil na n Og Well done to our under-14 Feile Girls. These young girls are a credit to the club, parish, friends and family. They are amazing footballers and they did everyone proud at Feile 2015 in Wexford. Unfortunately the dream ended with the cup semi final v Royal Gaels in the Centre of Excellence, Ferns,on Sunday, June 28, after three great wins in the Feile Peil competition. We are extremely proud of each and every player and their mentors Kathleen, Eugene, Alan and Tina.Thanks to Richie Bridges Physio.Also to Veronica Monaghan, our Feile official, who had everything expertly organised and Pat Callaghan for his match report on our DVD. Thanks to everyone for their support over the last number of days and everyone who came to support the girls at their matches it was really appreciated. Thanks to Fr David for his kind words and support to all teams.On Saturday our boys and girls and host clubs Portlaoise and St Mary's had a parade with members of the New Ross pipe Band,who were in big demand over the weekend. Well done to our boys team and mentors who too did extremely well in this competition. Thanks to Mick Harpur for the photos - they can be purchased at Wexford in Focus on Facebook Thanks to all the parents who helped out over the weekend busy preparing food for teams and spectators. Also to Aishling and Tony Kehoe, and local milk agents Anthony and Vivian Kehoe, who supplied dairy products for all our catering. To Nash's Mini Bus Hire for transporting the girls and boys teams safely to their playing destinations.  On Saturday evening our host teams Portlaoise and St Mary's, Ardee, joined our girls' and boys' teams for a lovely meal prepared by Gerald and Mary Kelly. This was followed by a disco and later presentations were made between the clubs involved. Music upstairs was provided by James McEntyre and Tony Doran a great night was had by all.Feile 2015 was an outstanding success in Taghmon-Camross GAA Club and we thank everyone for making the occasion so special. Match results: Feile na nOg na mBan 2015 - Div 1. Match 1  Taghmon-Camross 1-06 Atherlow, Tipperary 1-04. Match 2 Taghmon-Camross 2-07 Horeswood -06. Match 3 Taghmon-Camross 1-02 Portlaoise 3-2. Match 4 Quarter Finals Cup - Taghmon-Camross 6-4 Tinahely 1-1 in Pairc Carman. Div 1 Cup Semi Final Taghmon- Camross 2-0 Royal Gael 2-08.  Taghmon ICA Taghmon ICA recently went on their summer outing. Seventeen members and friends traveled to Wells House and Gardens where we enjoyed a tour of the house, morning coffee and a tour of the gardens and time for some retail therapy! We then moved on to the Lavender Farm near Inch where we had a light lunch and some of the more energetic among us walked around the lavender field. Unfortunately the lavender is not yet in bloom but we will be back. Of course there was some more retail therapy. In fact the aroma of lavender in the bus was very calming as we traveled to the highlight of the day which was Glenavon Japanese Garden near Ardamine. We all enjoyed this so much we didn't want to leave. It is a hidden gem full of jaw dropping surprises and well worth a visit.On our return journey we stopped for dinner in Treacy's Hotel, which was enjoyed by all. See you all back in September, ladies, fit and raring to go! Bannow & Ballymitty Seisiun Danescastle Music Group will host Seisiún, an evening of traditional music, song and dance every Tuesday night in Loftus Hall, commencing at 8.30. Show starts Tuesday, July 7, and runs every Tuesday for July and August. For more info contact Margaret at 087 1300943 or margaretosul@eircom.net or see Seisiún Facebook page. Phil Murphy Weekend The official opening of the 24th Phil Murphy weekend and launch of Our Parish Journal will take place in the Community Centre on Thursday, July 23, at 8pm. Road race / walk 6k trip to Cullenstown is on Friday evening at 7.30pm - register your entry before the day of the race for €10, or €15 on the night. Entries taken at 085 7740751. On Friday night Molly Sterling, Greg French and friends will perform in the festival club. On Saturday intermediate workshops will be in school from 11am. The Kilfinora céilí band will put on a show in the church at 8.30 pm followed by The Tri Tones in the festival club at ten. On Sunday workshops start from 12 followed by Singing Gathering at 3pm and ceile in the hall from 3pm to 6. In the festival club at 4pm we have Corner Boy and Finbar Furey will perform in the church at 8pm. Tickets will be available from this weekend or phone the box office no to order tickets 085 7740751. Bannow-Rathangan Show The Bannow & Rathangan Show takes place this Thursday, July 9, at Killag, Duncormick, a great day out for all the family, so see you there. Music festival The Tullicanna Music festival takes place on Sunday, July 19, at Stafford's of Tullicanna featuring Stephen Murphy, Hot Asphalt, A Chairde, Declan Cosgrove, plus more, music starts at 3 p.m. Barbecue and refreshments on the day. Grantstown News Carers and Kitchen staff position available at the end of September so if you fulfil the CE criteria and wish to apply please telephone Lesley at 051 561016 for more information. Date for the Diary: We are planning our first ever Film Evening at Grantstown Day Care Centre on Friday, August 14, at 7.30pm. 'The Rabbit and the Teasel by Els Dietvorst': Film duration is one hour and slides 15 minutes. All are welcome Volunteers: Grantstown is looking for Volunteers. If you can give even one hour of your time per week we would love to hear from you. We are looking for minibus drivers, Meals on Wheels drivers and Creativity Ideas for the Day Care Centre. Upcoming Events: Tuesday, July 7: Pongo in the morning and talk with Dickie Frederiks. Wednesday, July 8: Pongo in the morning and outside games/exercises in the afternoon. Thursday, July 9: Exercises Games/Pongo in the morning and Day Care Centre closed at 1.30pm. Grantstown Housing: If interested, call Lesley for an application form or information at 051 561016. Coffee morning: All welcome every Wednesday from 10am - 11am. Trip to Knock on 17th July and returning on 18th July. For more information, please contact Betty on 087 9057391 HISTORICAL SOCIETY This year's historical tour is on Saturday, July 25.The tour will visit St Mullins Heritage Centre, Ballyrankin house and Newtownbarry House and lunch will be at the River's Edge restaurant in Bunclody. The tour will leave Ballymitty school car park at 9:15 sharp and will cost €35 and includes cost of bus, lunch and entrance to two of the venues. All enquiries and bookings contact Anne Farrell at 051 561694 and 086 8469131. Mummers A great night's entertainment in Tir na nOg this Thursday night, July 9, with Tommy Stanners and The Drinagh mummers plus dancing to the music of Noel Furlong and Lar Kenny. Doors open 9pm. Admission €7 in aid of Ballymitty Handball Club Kilmore All Blacks Soccer training for the men's team is taking place every Wednesday evening at 8pm in Casey Park. All new and returning members are welcome. The club AGM is on Friday, July 17, at 8pm in the clubhouse.  Seafood Festival The 30th annual Kilmore Quay Seafood Festival takes place from Thursday, July 9, to Sunday, July 12. There will be lots of activities for all the family. Children's workshops, sea kayaking, fish Friday markets, festival exhibitions, puppet show, teddy bears picnic, harbour stalls, festival lecture, nature walks, and Ceili Mor are to name just some of the activities that will take place over the weekend!   Come along and enjoy our delicious seafood platters available daily in The Stella Maris centre. These are not to be missed. For a full listing of all events that will take place over the weekend visit www.facebook.com/kilmorequayseafoodfestival or www.kilmorequayseafoodfestival.com. A fun weekend for all the family!  Athletics Club Athletics Club members are invited to march in the Kilmore quay seafood festival parade on Thursday evening 9th of July. Meeting opposite the garda station at 6:45. On Saturday evening the festival 5k will take place with 3 separate races, a kids fun 800m run at 6:45, the womens 5k at 7pm and the mens 5k at 7:30pm. Register on the day from 5pm or online with runireland.com. We had 7 athletes compete in the county juvenile B championships recently. Ailbhe Tiernan took 1st place in the under-11 turbo javelin, Liam Hore was third in the under-nine 60m and Ronan Dove and Evan O'Brien took third in the under11 mixed relay. Dawn McKenna, Niosa and Riona Kelly also competed.The second round of the Mr Oil senior track and field county championship was run on Wednesday night. Niall Crosby, Adrian Reville, Ger Power, Jackie Carthy and Katie Daly represented Kilmore. Ger Power took silver in the mens novice 1500m, Jackie Carthy was first in the masters 1500m and Katie Daly first in the women's novice 1500m. On August 15, the Kilmore 10k will take place in Kilmore village. Walkers will start at 5pm and runners at 5:30pm. Register now online with runireland or on the day. Festival Raffle Please return your Festival Raffle tickets to Carol or Valerie during the week, if you would like us to collect, just give a ring or you can drop them down to the Stella Maris Centre. Many thanks for your continued support. Kilmore Quay Craft Group Calling all members to join in the Festival Parade on Thursday, July 9. Meet opposite the Garda Station at 6.45 and will unfurl our flags along the way.  Kilmore united Pre-season training for our men is this kicking-off this Wednesday, July 8,  at 7.30 in pitch. Hopefully along with all the familiar faces we'll have a couple of new signings - nothing like a bit of competition for places.Our summer camp for under-age players is taking place from July 13 to 17. Cost per child which includes training kit is €60 & non-members are more than welcome. To register or for any enquiry please contact Theresa at 087 4169923 Trip to The Aras The Ballycogley Players had a wonderful time on Tuesday last in Aras an Uachtaráin at the invitation of President and Mrs Higgins. To mark this wonderful occasion and the group's 40th anniversary, a presentation of a beautiful piece of Wexford art made by Jerome Dubois Woodcarving to Michael D and Sabina Higgins took place. It was a fantastic day with more than 150 amateur drama groups represented at a fabulous garden party where the sun shone brightly and everyone was in high spirits. A great honour for the group and a special memory to have. Active Retirement news Indoor bowling has been cancelled this week due to the Kilmore Quay Seafood festival opening on Thursday. Our next indoor bowling session will be on Thursday, July 16, from 7 to 9pm in the Stella Maris Centre. Our day trip will be held on Wednesday, July 15, when we will travel by train from Wexford to Dublin to visit Dublin Castle and the Wax museum. Don't forget your travel pass! Feile Peil 2015 On behalf of Kilmore GAA and Kilmore Ladies' Football we would like to thank everyone who contributed to making Feile Peil 2015 a huge success in Kilmore. Our visiting teams from Dunshaughlin and San Francisco were astounded by the welcome and hospitality they received. To our host families who looked after 48 players for the weekend and all parents and committee members who helped to get the club ready for the event - the club grounds looked really well with all the flags flying to welcome our guests. To everyone who worked so hard over the weekend serving refreshments on Friday and Saturday and cleaning up afterwards, to the staff in the Stella Maris Centre for a great meal for the players on Saturday night, to everyone who helped with managing car parking and other stewarding duties and to the local businesses who generously sponsored a lot of the food & refreshments which were served over the weekend - Mary Barry's, The Saltee Chipper, Carambola Lunches, Mark Laffan Fruit & Veg, Paddy and Joise Carroll and Paganini Ice Cream. To Micheal Martin and the staff in Kilmore NS, who held a reception for the San Francisco players on Friday morning and arranged for Sam Maguire and Liam McCarthy to be there as well. Finally to the boys and girls from our under-14 teams who represented both clubs so well both on and off the field - you were fabulous. We hope that you have great memories of Feile 2015. Thanks to everyone - it was a great community event and we really appreciate the efforts of everyone who helped out in any way. Ballymore  & Mayglass Lottery The St Fintan's GAA lotto now stands at €4,800 and tickets can be purchased in the local shops, club grounds on Tuesday evenings from 8pm and from club members at a cost of €1.50. There is also a match-three prize of €300 up for grabs each week and Angela Moore, Michael Boggan and C Cousins shared in this prize with the following numbers drawn: 1,6,15,16. Many thanks for your continued support. Dyslexia Ireland The Dyslexia Association of Ireland will be running a weekly workshop in Enniscorthy on Tuesday evenings starting in September from 5 to 7pm. The new term starts on September 1 and will run for 10 weeks. We run two terms in the year. Children enrolled receive extra tuition from experienced tutors specially trained in teaching children with dyslexia. Classes are run for children from seven years old to Leaving Certificate and €300 for the term. This can be paid weekly. For further information please find us on Facebook at Enniscorthy Branch of Dyslexia Association of Ireland or contact Annette at 086 0718154. Tomhaggard Social Centre Activities at the Centre are continuing with Women's Shed on Mondays from 10 to1. New members welcome. Contact Angela at 087 2840272. Ceili and set dancing classes with Fintan Thursdays 8 to 10. Contact 087 6812690. Fundraising garden party on August 15. Contact Angela at 087 2840272. 5k fun run/walk on August 23. Contact Eimear at 6 086 1946311. St Anne's Novena from July 18 to 26 including ceili on July 20. Fun cycle planned for July 5 has been postponed till later and social dance with Adrian Ryan was on Thurday, June 26. A big thank you to those sponsoring prizes and supporting the various fundraising events over the summer months. Check out the new Tomhaggard Social Centre Facebook page for more details of activities and events.  Wedding Bells Two members of our parish were married during the recent past, Brenda Day, daughter of Dermot and Rose of Mooretown, Ballycogley, married her Australlian boyfriend BJ Whitelaw in Ballymore. Padhraic Rossitter, Pettitstown, Ballycogley, son of Pat and Georgina, married his girlfriend Lesley Duggan in Seafield. We send our congratulations and best wishes for the future to both. Senior Football The St Fintan's senior football team traveled to Enniscorthy on Friday evening of last week to take on Starlights in an All-County football league division one game. The game was never a contest and when the final whistle sounded the Ballymore-Mayglass men were on the wrong end of a 5-14 to 0-4 scoreline.  Open Garden Marie Goodwin Loughgunnan will open her garden on Sunday, July 12, from 2 to 6pm. Complimentary tea and cakes will be served and all donations are in aid of Mayglass National School. All are welcome. In Hospital Hilda Underwood Killinick is currently a patient in Wexford General Hospital and she is wished a speedy recovery to full fitness and health by her family and friends. Society Golf Members of the St Fintan's Golfing society are asked to keep Saturday, July 25, free when St Helen's Bay is the venue for another outing. Ladies Underage Though Feile Peil Na nOg has come and gone times on the playing field for the underage ladies of St Fintan's is as busy as ever. On Tuesday evening last both the under-10 and under-14 teams were in action and with much success. The under-10 team travelled to Clongeen to take on the home team and displayed their skills and team spirit and on a lovely summers evening ran out worthy winners. Following a tiring Feile weekend the under-14 girls were back in action taking on Shamrocks in Ballymore and ran out comfortable winners thus protecting its 100% record in the league. Unfortunately we suffered our first defeat of the season against a strong Fethard side. Again thanks to all managers and mentors for their continuing good work. Well done all concerned. Pongo In The Park There will be a Pongo in the Park session held on Sunday, July 12, as part of the Kilrane-Rosslare Harbour Community Weekend in the Memorial Park, Rosslare Harbour. All proceeds will be in aid of St Mary's Daycare Centre, Tagoat. Pongo will commence at 2pm sharp and there will be loads of activities in the Memorial Park on that afternoon such as facepainting, bric-a-brac, craft stalls, tea and cake stall, penalty shootout, bouncy castles, hook a duck, crazy golf and live music from The Backbeats. On Saturday, July 11, there will be a Strictly With A Twist night with a fun dance competition with 'celebrity' judges and a guest MC in Railway Social Club Hall. Come on down, see some lovely dancing, wait for the 'twist' and vote for your favourite. This weekend supports clubs and organisations in the Kilrane-Rosslare Harbour area such as Rosslare Harbour Lifeboat, Tops Community Group, St Mary's Daycare, Tuskar Sea Scouts, and sporting clubs locally. A great weekend of fun promised. Our Lady's Island Table Quiz A Table Quiz in aid of Our Lady's Island Youth Club will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, 8th July in The Lighthouse Bar, Carne at 9p.m. €5 per person. Your support will be very much appreciated.  Tacumshane Patrons  Patron Prayers in Churchtown cemetry this Friday, July 10th at 7.30 pm. In Tacumshane graveyard Sunday next, July 12th at 2.30 pm, followed by the annual Garden Party at the Tacumshane Parochial House.  Coffee Shop open  Our Lady's Island Community Coffee Shop will re-open this Saturday, 11th July - open daily from 11a.m. to 5p.m. p.m. We would love to see you all again. Please come along for tea and chat, bring friends and neighbours. This year we will have a &quot;New & Good As New&quot; area - if you have any items you may wish to donate, please contact Louise 9131308  Mayor of Wexford Congratulations to our local county councillor Ger Carthy on his election as Mayor of Wexford at a ceremony in the Arts Centre on Monday last. He makes history as this is the first time a rural district candidate has been elected to the office of Mayor. We wish him well as he carries out his durties as Mayor of Wexford over the coming year. Kilscoran Summer Sale The annual Summer Sale will be held in the Community Centre, Rosslare Strand on Tuesday next, 14th July at 7p.m. Cakes, vegetables, plants, bottle stall, etc. etc. All are welcome. In aid of Kilscoran Union.  Parish Table Quiz A Table Quiz in aid Our Lady's Island Church funds will take place on Wednesday, 15 July in the Lighthouse Bar, Carne at 9p.m. Table of four €20. Your support will be very much appreciated.  Rathangan & Cleariestown Information  If you have any news or information that you would like to submit in the weekly notes you can contact Rathangan Parish Hall on 051 563039 between 9.30am and 1.30pm or leave a message. Also you can e-mail your notice to rathanganhall@gmail.com. At the latest all notes must be received by 10 o'clock Friday morning. Community Lotto There was no winner of last week's jackpot of €4,500. The winning numbers were 1,6,15,16. Congratulations to the 6 match 3 winners who each receive €50. The winners were; Angela Moore, Michael Boggan, Suzy, Lucy, Sam & Keeva, C. Cousins, Catriona Kelly, Mary Corish. The next jackpot stands at €4,800 and the draw will take place on Tuesday, July 7, at 8:30pm. Good luck to all. Dyslexia Association  The Dyslexia Association of Ireland will be running a weekly workshop in Enniscorthy on Tuesday evenings starting in September from 5 to 7pm. The new term starts on September 1 and will run for 10 weeks. We run two terms in the year. Children enrolled receive extra tuition from experienced tutors specially trained in teaching children with dyslexia. Classes are run for children from seven years old to Leaving Certificate and cost €300 for the term. This can be paid weekly. For further information please find us on facebook at Enniscorthy Branch of Dyslexia Association of Ireland or contact Annette at 086 0718154.  Bannow-Rathangan Show The 66th Bannow & Rathangan Agricultural Show will take place at Killag, Duncormick on Thursday 9th July at 10am. The show will feature show jumping, dressage, dog show, cookery, crafts, farm produce, musical entertainment, fashion show, amusements and much more.  Forth Walking Group The Wednesday evening walks for the month of July are as follows:July 8 - Tintern. July 15 - Forth Mountain. July 22 - Kilmore Quay. July 29 - Tintern. All meetings at 7pm  Fitness Summer Camp Macfit PT & Fitness is running a summer camp this year in Rathangan. It is a themed sports camp to keep your little lads/ ladies fit and healthy. There will be plenty of variety for the kids. The camp is for boys and girls aged 7+. It is reasonably priced at €55. The children will be made aware of healthy eating and the choices they make along with fun and exercise elements involved. There will be discounts for multiples in the one family. The camp will run from August 3 to 7, 10am to 2.30pm. If you require any more info have a look at the brochure or give me a call. Brian at 086 1551315.   Seisiún  Danescastle Music Group will host Seisiún, an evening of traditional music, song & dance every Tuesday night in Loftus Hall commencing at 8.30. Show starts Tuesday, July 7, and runs every Tuesday for July and August. For more info contact Margaret at 087 1300943, margaretosul@eircom.net or see Seisiún Facebook page.  Summer Camp  Potter's Yard Summer Camp: Monday, July 6, Thursday, July 9, Monday, July 13, Thursday July 16.Children, Art and Pottery. Clay drawing, construction using natural materials. 10am- 1pm daily. Ages five to 12 years. Cost €75 per child includes complimentary potter's clay to take home. Booking essential. Deposit kindly requested. Drawing and construction with natural materials with Annie Driver  BA Hons in Fine Art Pottery with Patricia Howard, member of DCCOL Education Panel. To book contact 051 563377 or 086 1914648. Email thepottersyard@gmail.com. Visit thepottersyard.com. Tidy Towns  Duncormick Area Action Group has once again entered this year's Tidy Town's Competition with judging from June to August. We are appealing to everyone to help us in obtaining better results this year and be proud of our village. We would also like to ask everyone to use the litter bins provided in the village. St Anne's GAA Golf Classic St Anne's GAA Club's annual golf classic will take place in Wexford Golf Club on Friday, July 17. €160 Per Team of four. Sponsor a Tee Box: €100; Sponsor a prize: Donation. Contact Diarmuid O'Keeffe at 087 9449429 or Redmond Barry at 087 2195131 or email secretary.stannesrathangan.wexford@gaa.ie. SUNNY SOUTH EAST STROLLERS  We meet every Monday evening at 7pm (except Bank Holidays and weather permitting). During this fine weather we will meet every third Monday at a different location. The Strollers receive a text message with relevant details. We have some lovely trails and loops in Wexford all within a short distance.On the other Mondays we meet at Rathangan Hall at 7pm, stroll for 35-45 mins. We have a cup of tea or coffee and most importantly a chat afterwards. We would like to invite anyone who would like to get out for a stroll/walk, who may have very low fitness levels but would like to get active and fit. Our strolls are designed to cater for many fitness levels. Please contact any of our three Irish Heart Foundation Trained Community Walking Leaders for more info. Jacintha Cloney 087 9234121, Philomena Cahill 086 8700839 or Martin Furlong 089 4363834.   Mass in Dunbrody Abbey  There will be a Mass in Dunbrody Abbey on Sunday next, July 12, at 10:30am weather permitting. The theme of the celebration is our Christian Heriatge from history to hope.Parking will be in the Dunbrody visitor centre across the road from the Abbey, there will be limited parking in the Abbey grounds for people with limited mobility only please, tea/coffee and scone will be available in the coffee shop after Mass at a reduced rate.  Kellogg's GAA Cúl Camp  This year's Kellogg's GAA Cúl Camp for both boys and girls covering football, hurling and camogie will take place in St Anne's GAA Club Grounds from July 20 to 24. Children will get to learn GAA games from qualified coaches in a safe and fun environment. Children from six to 13 years can be registered online at www.gaa.ie/kelloggsculcamps/. Cost of Cúl Camp this year is as follows: First child €55, Second child €45, Third and fourth child €40 each.  Tractor RUn Cleariestown Tractor Run will take place in Cleariestown on Sunday, July 26, at 1pm. Registration is at noon. Rosslare Harbour St Paul's  Well done to all our athletes who competed in the B Championships. There was a great medal haul. Also well done to Maeve Hayes who competed in the national combined events. This was Maeve's first time competing in the combineds at a national level which is an achievement in itself. Unfortunately the under-14 athlete was unable to finish the last event, the 800m, but Maeve did put in fine performances in the hurdles, high jump, shot and long jump over the course of the day. No doubt the experience will benefit her going into future combined events competitions. Well done to our under-23s and juveniles that competed last weekend in their nationals, results to follow next week. Best of luck to the juveniles taking part in day two and three of the nationals. The road race is only two months away now so mark September 5 on your calendar and get out training. Our online entry will be opening this week, check our Facebook page for the link and more details. St Mary's GAA Lotto: €4,700 jackpot; numbers drawn 3, 9, 15, 28 and bonus 33. No winner. Match-three winner Sean Grant & Adelaide Bishop; Next draw July 6. Club Shop: The new club shop is now open for business. The shop will be open most evenings from 6:30pm. Club gear can be ordered/collected here, gym membership, application forms, lotto tickets, teas, coffees, cold drinks, snacks all available. Cul Camp 2015: Just a quick reminder that booking for this year's Cul Camp is now open on line. This year it will be from July 20 to 24 in Tagoat and it really is a great week of fun. This year kids get a back pack, a jersey and a half zip training top! Book at kelloggsculcamps.gaa.ie. Date for your Diary: On July 18 St Mary's Rosslare will hold its first summer event, "Summer Session", at the complex in Tagoat. Bands/DJ/barbecue and much more. It's an evening you won't want to miss. Over-18s only. Tickets €10 on sale now. Tickets will be on sale from the club shop. What a week for the club: Lee Devereux captured a Leinster Junior Football title with Wexford. We experienced all the thrills and spills of Feile 2015 (and what an experience for our under-14 players! This is an experience that will stay with them long beyond their playing days) and Naomhan and Tiernan Rossiter were key to Wexford beating Down in the Football Qualifiers. Wexford Junior Footballers: The Junior All Ireland Semi-Final is down for decision on Saturday, July 25 (v Cork/Kerry). Lee has the Leinster medal secured but since then we are proud to say that Shane Sinnott ('Sinny' as he is better known to some of us) has been brought into the panel, another St Mary's man, watch this space. ROSSLARE RANGERS Rosslare Rangers FC will hold its AGM on Wednesday, July 8, in the Railway Social Club at 8pm. The schoolboys and -girls will hold their AGM on Thursday, July 9, in the Railway Social Club at 8pm. Rosslare Rangers Ladies will hold their AGM on Monday, July 13, in Hotel Rosslare at 8:30pm.  Any new members, managers or players wishing to get involved please contact a committee member or come along to any of the AGMs. Clonard Parish Lotto Results                                         For Wednesday 1st July 2015. This week's Winning Numbers: 04, 12, 21, and 23. No Jackpot Winner. 21 match 3 winners receive €31 each. Danny & Linda, Coolcotts; Pat & Bernie Darcy, Oylegate; Jim Waters, C/O Seller; Nicky Clarke, C/O Donal Fallon; Tom Roche, C/O Seller; Sophia Hendrick, Bungalow, Kennedy Park; Nancy Fallon, C/O 74 Liam Mellows Park; Ann Donovan, 119 Bishopswater; Padraig Kavanagh, C/O Seller; Ann McCabe, Clonard; Patti Roche, C/O Marian; Furlong Family, 98 Liam Mellows Park; NNSMJ, C/O Nuala Murphy; Leona Farrell, C/O Seller; Helen Higgins, C/O B Concar; Paddy Harnett, C/O Seller; Denise Simpson, C/O Seller; MALC C/O AH; Paul Roberts, 6 Antelope Road, Kay Stone, C/O Seller, and Bridget Casey, C/O Seller. Jackpot for Wednesday 8th July 2015 €5,300. Tickets €1.50 each at Clonard Parish Office or from any promoter. Lotto draw takes place every Wednesday night at Clonard Bingo at 8.30 p.m. If you wish to join or be a promoter, please call to Clonard Parish Office to have it arranged. Acorn Shop In Clonard Parish Office. Communion and Confirmation items now in stock. Rosaries, Baby Gifts, Candles and Cards for all occasions. Holy Family Pre-school Clonard Community Centre invite applicants for the position of Childcare Manager. Essential Criteria: Minimum Fetac Level 6 Major award in Childcare/Early years Qualification. Three years' experience in a supervisory/management role in Early Years sector. Good interpersonal, communication and IT skills. Desirable Criteria: A relevant third level degree (level 7/8) in Early Childhood Care & Education. Demonstrate a good working knowledge of Government Funded Schemes. CV to be received no later than 4pm Wednesday, July 15, to Des Robinson, Clonard Parish Office. For information contact Clonard Parish Office on 053 9123672.  Clonard Scouts Fundraising concert in White's Hotel Saturday, July 11, at 8pm. Magic of the musicals with Tony Carty and band, Mags Jacob, Niamh Preston, James McDermott and Alan Corcoran as MC. Tickets Adults €15. Children €10. Available in White's Hotel or at the door on the night. Pilgrimage To Medjugorje September 9 to 16 costing €689 pps, half board. Contact Mary at 086 3947882 for further details. The Carers Association Henrietta Street is running the Care Support Module for the QQI Level 5 Major Award in Healthcare from Thursday, July 16. The course duration is one day per week for five weeks. If interested please ring 053 9140511. World Youth Day Young people (over 18) who are interested in going on pilgrimage to World Youth Day in Krakow, Poland, in July 2016, are invited to attend an information night on Friday, July 10, in Clonard Church at 8pm. Information leaflets are also available from your local priest or by calling Fr Jim at 053 9175705. Rosslare Strand Sports Centre We are getting set for summer make sure you like us on Facebook at Rosslare Strand or call 053 9132202. We are a registered charity. Make the most of your Membership and renew - now only €100 for a one-year family membership. Hall/Gymnasium available for hire for all events/ parties (party packages available) WANTED: We are looking for old computers/laptops, monitors, hard drives, cables, keyboards, mice, working or not. No printers or fax machines please. Large Irish and Wexford flags. Donations can be left in Rosslare C & S Centre. ACTIVITIES/CLASSES: New members always welcome to all classes/groups. Pilates - ill be back on Friday, July 3,at 10am; Forever Fit-Saturday at 10am. Fun dance fitness, suitable for all €8. Call Amanda at 087 9713339; Forever Fit over-60s - Saturday at 11:30am. St Pauls Athletics Club - Monday and Wednesday at 6pm. Call Leo at 086 3103417. Menapians Athletics Club Thursday at 7pm. Call David at 085 1621700; Rosslare Bowls Club - call Catherine at 086 8177679 or visit rosslarebowlsclub.com; Men's Sheds: Tuesday and Thursday from 2pm to 4pm. Call Jim at 087 6815029. Beginners' yoga with Robin, Monday and Wednesday at 6:30pm, €5. Zumba with Theresa: Monday at 10:15am and Thursday at 6:30pm, €6. Kettlebells: Monday and Wednesday at 7.30pm, Tuesday and Friday at 11am, €6. Rosslare Tennis Club Join us every Wednesday at 9:30am. New players always welcome. Suitable for all. Members free. Non-members only €2 Boxing Club There is a bucket collection outside Centra on August 1. There is a car wash on July 18 at The Bay. Upcoming events Upcoming events in Rosslare for Summer 2015-For full details call us on 053-9132202 or visit www.rosslareholidayresort.ie Fitness Classes-July & Aug; Discos & Puppet Shows-July & Aug; 5 a side Soccer-July & Aug; Watersports Camp-July & Aug; Rosslare Summer Camp-July & Aug; Precious Pink Princess Parlour-July & Aug; Swim/Watersafety Week-6th-11th July; FAI Summer Soccer Schools-6th-10th & 13th-17th July; New 2 U Charity Boutique Fashion Show & Garden Party-11th July; Teddy Bears Picnic-12th July; Little Einstein Camp-18th July & 1st Aug; Dance & Drama Camp-20th-24th July; GAA Cúl Camp - 20th- 24th July; Golf Classic-24th July; Annual Field Day-26th July; Ashley Wynne Tennis Camp-27th-31st July & 4th-7th Aug; Shine Summer School-3rd-7th Aug & 17th-21st Aug; Kelly's Tennis Junior Open-4th-10th Aug; Fun in the Sun-6th Aug; Summer Raffle & Residents/Homeowners Meeting-15th Aug. Newsletter Summer newsletter is out now - pick up your copy in local shops! This summer edition is jam packed with camps and activities to keep your kids busy for the whole summer. We will also have fitness classes for adults with childcare available. TIDY TOWNS Next meeting is on Wednesday, July 8, at 10.30am in the Community Centre. Active Retirement Please note that the next meeting will be on Monday, September 7, There will be no meetings in July and August. Mindfulness A programme of Mindfulness facilitated by Theresa McGuinness will be held every Monday (formal meditation 7am to 8am) and Friday (walking/yoga meditation 7am-8am- on beach if weather permits). Cost is €2/day- to support Rosslare Community & Sports Centre. Guided Meditation CD provided as well as different weekly activities to do during the week from home. Mindfulness is for everyone. Check out Rosslare Strand on Facebook for more details. summer Fashion Show New 2 U Charity Boutique is hosting a summer fashion show and garden party outside the boutique on Saturday, July 11, at 5pm. There will be Cheese & Wine reception, arrive early to get a seat - all welcome. Watersports Centre Rosslare Watersports Centre is opening on Monday, June 29, until August. Rentals available from 12 noon to 2pm weekdays and weekends. Camps 8-15yr olds. 10am-12pm &, 2pm-4pm , Mon- Fri, €20 per day or €80 per week. Booking Essential - call 053 9132202. Volunteer Program Are you interested in volunteering in a community coffee shop, information office, charity shop or playground in Rosslare? Training will be given. For details call Anne at 086 8293833. Car Boot Sales Lollitots Community Childcare is holding its first car boot sale on the following dates: July 19, August 2, 9, 16 in the school field in Rosslare Strand. Gates open at 8am. Sales 8.30am to 2pm. Admission €2, cars €10 and vans €20. Call Lisa or Paula at 053 9132770. SHINE SUMMER SCHOOL The Shine Summer School runs at Rosslare Community Centre from August 3 to 7 and August 17 to 21 from 2 to 6pm daily. Enjoy an action packed week of dance, drama, TV presenting and so much more. Learn routines, act out scenes, practise being a TV presenter. Build confidence. Work as part of a team and above all have fun. Age six to 12 years. The cost is €65 with family discounts available.  Call 086 3275636 or 087 2994909. Wexford People 
