sport football
{ Cormac Byrne 
    December 21 2014 05:34 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/rory-mcilroy-crowned-the-rte-sport-sports-person-of-the-year-as-bod-enters-hall-of-fame-30853922.html }
Just a week after missing out on the BBC equivalent in controversial fashion, Rory McIlroy was crowned the RTÉ Sport Sports Person of the Year. The 25-year-old experienced a tremendous year by reclaiming the world number one spot with major victories in  Hoylake at the Open Championship and the USPGA Championship in Valhalla. He also played a massive role in Europe's Ryder Cup victory at Gleneagles and wins RTE's top award for a second time. He beat off stiff competition from Footballer of the Year James O'Donoghue, five-time world champion Katie Taylor, European Paralympic gold medallists Jason Smyth and Michael McKillop, Hurler of the Year Richie Hogan, Cork footballer Breige Corkery, IRB Women’s World Player of the Year nominee Niamh Briggs, Six Nations winner Jonny Sexton, Seamus Coleman, world champion boxer Carl Frampton and European bronze medallist Mark English. The Coach of the Year was won by Joe Schmidt who led Ireland to victory in the Six Nations in Brian O'Driscoll's last season as a player. Ireland's only defeat came against England at Twickenham in a year which saw us climb to third in the world rankings following autumn victories over South Africa and Australia. The BBC winner Paul McGinley missed out along with Brian Cody, Eamonn Fitmaurice, Cheltenham Gold Cup winning trainer Jim Culloty, Dundalk's Stephen Kenny, Aidan O'Brien, Cork Ladies manager Éaomonn Ryan, Shane McGuigan (Carl Frampton's trainer) and Katie Taylor's father, Pete. As well as acknowledging this year’s sporting achievements, the RTÉ Sport Awards also paid tribute to one of Ireland’s greatest sporting legends. Recently retired Irish rugby legend Brian O’Driscoll was honoured with the RTÉ/Irish Sports Council Hall of Fame Award. During a stellar career in which he became the most-capped player in rugby union history, Brian captained Leinster, Ireland and the British and Irish Lions winning the 6 Nations twice and the Heineken Cup three times along the way. The nominees for the RTE Sport Team of the Year were the Cork Ladies Football, Cork Camogie, Dundalk FC , Ireland Rugby, Kerry Senior Football  and Kilkenny Senior Hurling teams. The Award was decided by public vote and the winners were Cork Ladies Football. Online Editors 
