sport football
{ Independent.ie Newsdesk 
    January 14 2019 05:49 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/tg4-to-broadcast-obyrne-cup-final-this-friday-as-one-of-40-live-gaa-games-they-will-show-this-spring-37710134.html }
TG4 will kick-off a packed season of GAA on the Irish language channel with the O'Byrne Cup final between Dublin and Westmeath this Friday. TG4 unveiled the station’s Spring GAA coverage today with details of their comprehensive schedule of GAA coverage for the coming months. TG4 will broadcast 40 GAA matches between now and April beginning with live coverage of the O’Byrne Cup Final. The station’s Allianz Leagues coverage starts on Sunday 27 January with full coverage of both the All Ireland Football and Hurling champions. GAA Beo will be live from Clones with football champions Dublin taking on Monaghan. There will be deferred coverage of Wexford against hurling champions Limerick in the first round of the Allianz Hurling League. The full line-up of matches on TG4 for the coming months are as follows: Dublin v Westmeath, Bord na Mona O’Byrne Cup Final, Live from Parnell Park. Coverage begins at 7:55pm (Throw-in: 8pm) Armagh v Tyrone, Bank of Ireland Dr. McKenna Cup Football Final, Live from the Athletics Grounds. coverage begins at 7:25pm (Throw-in: 7:30pm). AIB All Ireland Intermediate Club Football Semi-Final An Spidéal (Galway) v Naomh Éanna (Antrim) Live from Páirc an Tailteann, Navan    Coverage begins at 1:55pm (throw-in: 2pm) Live:  Allianz Football League - Round 1 -  Monaghan v Dublin, Clones Deferred:  Allianz Hurling League - Round 1 -  Wexford v Limerick, Innovate Wexford Park Live:  Allianz Hurling League - Round 2 -  Clare v Kilkenny Deferred:  Allianz Hurling League - Round 2 -  Cork v Wexford Deferred:  Allianz Football League - Round 2 -  Tyrone v Mayo AIB All-Ireland Senior Club Hurling Championship Semi-Finals 3pm   St. Thomas' (Galway) v Ruairi Óg Cushendall (Antrim) Live from Parnell Park, Dublin 5pm  Ballyhale Shamrocks (Kilkenny) v Ballygunner (Waterford) Live from Semple Stadium, Thurles Live on SportTG4 YouTube: AIB All Ireland Intermediate and Junior Club Football Finals, Live from Croke Park. Live:  Allianz Football League - Round 3 -  Monaghan v Galway, Inniskeen, 2pm Deferred:  Allianz Football League - Round 3 -  Roscommon v Tyrone Deferred:  Allianz Football League - Round 3 -  Match to be confirmed Live on Sport TG4 YouTube: AIB All Ireland Intermediate and Junior Club Hurling Finals, Live from Croke Park AIB All-Ireland Senior Club Football Championship Semi-Finals 1:30pm    Corofin (Galway) v Gaoth Dobhair (Donegal) Live from Páirc Sean Mac Diarmada, Carrick-on-Shannon 3:30pm   Dr. Crokes (Kerry) v Mulllnalaghta St Columba’s (Longford) Live from Semple Stadium, Thurles Live on Sport TG4 YouTube:  All Ireland Scór na nÓg Finals, Live from TF Royal Theatre, Castlebar Live and deferred coverage from the Allianz Hurling League (Round 3) including Kilkenny Limerick, Wexford v Tipperary and Galway v Dublin. Live on Sport TG4 YouTube:  Electric Ireland Higher Education GAA Sigerson Cup Final SATURDAY 23 FEBRUARY Live on Sport TG4 YouTube:  Electric Ireland Higher Education GAA Fitzgibbon Cup Final, Live from Waterford I.T. Allianz Football League (Round 4)  and  Allianz Hurling League (Round 4) One live match and two deferred matches. Allianz Football League (Round 5)  and  Allianz Hurling League (Round 5) One live match and two deferred matches. GAA Presidents Awards, Live from Croke Park Live on Sport TG4 YouTube:  Gourmet Food Parlour O’Connor Cup Ladies Football Final Allianz Hurling League Quarter-Finals Allianz Hurling League Semi-Finals AIB All-Ireland Senior Club Football & Hurling Finals, Live from Croke Park Allianz Football League (Round 7) Allianz Hurling League Final Allianz Football League (Division 3 and 4 Finals), Live from Croke Park Live on Sport TG4 YouTube:  All Ireland Colleges Hurling Final (Post Primary Schools Finals), Double header live from Semple Stadium, Thurles Allianz Football League (Division 1 and 2 Finals), Live from Croke Park Live on Sport TG4 YouTube:  All Ireland Colleges Football Final (Post Primary Schools Finals - Paddy Drummond Cup Final and Hogan Cup Final), double header live from Croke Park Live on Sport TG4 YouTube:  All Ireland Scór Sinsir Finals, Live from the TF Royal Theatre, Castlebar Online Editors 
