sport football
{  
    March 22 2009 04:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/gaa-is-not-just-for-boys-and-lesbians-26522752.html }
WITH OUR Gaelic football pre-season training in full swing, I was delighted to again be wearing my baggy jersey with the Portobello Rathmines logo emblazoned across the front and to have my football boots encrusted with a few kilos of fresh mud. Little did I know that this would make me the target of a stream of sexist abuse from young Dublin men about how football is an "unladylike" sport, with snide references to sessions of pints of Guinness and aspersions cast on my sexuality with taunts about going "lesball" training. Yes, surprisingly, Dublin men frown on women playing the fastest growing sport in Ireland. They would prefer that we demonstrate our feminine attributes of agility, elegance and grace through specific "female" sports such as tennis, figure skating or gymnastics rather than develop what they see as the muscular, beefy and robust bodies of Gaelic football players. "Women playing sports such as Gaelic football and rugby is extremely unattractive -- unless, of course, you have a ridiculously good-looking one, such as the lead singer of the Pussycat Dolls, slotting in at corner forward. The fact is it's just wrong," said one Dublin man. The perception among Dublin men is that the physiques of women who play football have to be more masculine in order to succeed and they have let me know loud and clear how they prefer the slender female form which is more associated with hockey and tennis. One young Dublin man said: "Just as men have to bulk up nowadays to stand a chance in football or rugby, women have to be some way bulky to succeed in Gaelic. It all comes down to the bodies that play the sport, why do you think hockey girls and female tennis players wear little skirts and sleeveless tops while lady football players wear baggy jerseys and ill-fitting shorts." I was astonished that anyone in this day and age would be so small-minded to have such a negative reaction to females playing any sport. And as for the kits not being flattering, well if you take up a sport because of the ensemble, you're clearly on a hiding to nothing. There are plenty of men playing football who are not exactly God's gift to shorts, but it doesn't stop them getting out there and taking part -- and rightly so. While I agree men and women, as a rule, both prefer to watch men playing football, there is no reason in the world why both sexes shouldn't play the game. I was pleasantly surprised when I contrasted the opinions of Dublin men and country men to women playing football. One Clare man said: "Down the country, girls don't have the option of playing hockey and tennis, the main sport is Gaelic and it means they are independent, sporty, social and health-conscious women. There is never an issue." Young women tend to be very fond of parading around the city dressed in track suits, but when it comes to wearing these clothes for the purpose for which they were originally intended, they tend to be less enthusiastic. Maybe it's a fear of breaking preciously prepared fingernails or tousling that carefully preened hair that keeps a lot of young women away from sport. It may be pure vanity -- or it may be pressure from male peers. Focusing female sports on feminine beauty and objectified status rather than athletic skill is a major drawback to women's sport and probably a significant reason why many women drop out of sports or have their sexual identity questioned by some men when they try to develop their athleticism. It is therefore not surprising that sports which most resemble masculine sports have the greatest need to attract audiences and are the ones in which the fear of lesbianism is most prominent. These traditional views which have been expressed by Dublin men should be long gone. 'Celebrity Bainisteoir 2009' is on RTE1 tonight, 6.30pm 
