sport football
{ Ailn Quinlan 
    August 22 2013 03:05 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/let-the-games-begin-29519058.html }
Civil servant James O'Reilly has a dream of bringing together 1,400 people for the world's biggest circuit fitness training class and having the event included in the Guinness World Records. But that is not all. The Co Cork father of two and his team are planning not one but two Guinness World Record bids – including the world's largest barefoot race. Both bids – some 800 people are expected to participate in the barefoot running attempt alone – are scheduled to take place in Cork city this weekend as part of the inaugural World Mini Games, billed as one of the most inclusive sports competitions in the world. Think ultimate frisbee. Think powerlifting, hockey, GAA, rugby and golf. Think lacrosse, American football, motocross, dodgeball, flag-football, street handball and even chess. There is a 5k race on the programme and even a cycling criterium – a fast, furious and notoriously exciting race around closed-off city centre streets. Many of the events are mini-versions of 25 popular sports – rugby sevens, five-a-side football, 3x3 basketball – but more niche activities such as windsurfing, powerlifting and motograss play a prominent role, while an ActivExpo featuring the latest sport, health and wellness products and services will also take place. Expected to involve around 5,000 participants over the four days from today until Sunday, the event is open to adult sports enthusiasts of all ages and abilities – but it is most definitely not for elite athletes, emphasises the 38-year-old from Ballincollig. James got the idea for a multi-sports event for non-elite adult sportspeople when he was managing his local men's Junior B football team and realised there were not nearly enough events for this level of player. He initially started a tournament and was so taken aback by its popularity that, with the help of a very talented team with an extraordinary mix of skills, he decided to take the idea further. "We had accountants, entrepreneurs and event organisers on the team. There was a big mix of skills. I felt it'd be great if we collaborated on a big event, bringing all our professional skills to bear." So, two years ago, they got together and organised SpóirtFest, involving 14 different sports, 400 athletes and an audience of about 3,000. It took place in Ballincollig and received a rapturous reception from spectators. "We recognised a need and an opportunity to start bringing different sports together," James recalls. Following the event, the organisers became more confident and decided to take things further. "I always felt there were not enough multi-sports events to which non-elite adult athletes could come together to participate in and enjoy," he says. "This would be for the man or woman who is enthusiastic about a sport such as GAA or rugby or hockey, but who would never be playing it at an elite level. "Yet these people are extremely passionate and committed about their sport. I wanted to recognise and acknowledge that passion and make room for it. "We've always felt there should be a multi-sports event to provide an outlet for that passion." On May 26 last year the group held the Irish Sports Summit, a conference to discuss the financial issues in sport. Out of that came more confidence, a network of new contacts – "we were talking to the heads of big governing bodies of sports like the FAI, the GAA and the IRFU" – and a relentless drive to organise an even bigger event. "It gave us access to a big network of people who understood that we were volunteers who wanted to do something positive for sports, and we felt very confident about taking on an even bigger event than either the SpóirtFest or the summit." And so, the concept of the World Mini Games was born. As it was the year of The Gathering, the group decided to incorporate the idea of attracting a whole influx of people. And since then, the idea has snowballed. Now listed as one of Cork's premier Gathering events, the games, which are supported by both Cork county and city councils, will run in the city and in surrounding towns for the next four days. Some of the events, such as the Guinness World Record attempts and the 5k run, will involve large numbers, while others may be smaller, more niche events.  Although many events will take place in the Mardyke, others will be held in towns around the city such as Ballincollig, which will host camogie, Gaelic football and rugby; and Cobh, where the Motograss championships will take place. In addition, the 2013 Irish Sports Summit will be held in Cork City Hall tomorrow. The event is being opened by sports minister Michael Ring, and will be attended by John Treacy of the Irish Sports Council and a number of leading international figures. The summit will bring the wider sporting community into City Hall to discuss everything from the problems for sports clubs caused by emigration and poor access to funding to an overall drop in participation in sport, says James. The Guinness World Record bids will take place this weekend. On Saturday, the record bid for the largest circuit fitness training class, in aid of the Irish Cancer Society and sponsored by the Irish Leisure Amenity Management Industry, will take place in the Mardyke. The second bid, for the world's biggest barefoot race, will take place at the same venue on Sunday. "We badly need volunteers," says James. And lots of them. "If anyone would be prepared to be there to help on the day, we'd be very glad to hear from them." Anyone interested in volunteering for the World Mini Games should contact Monika at 086 3733357 or email info@world minigames2013.com. For more information, visit www.world minigames2013.com Irish Independent 
