sport football
{ Declan McCormack 
    December 15 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/the-best-of-tales-worst-of-tales-25884008.html }
AT the end of a year in which deceit seems to be corroding the public's faith in sport someone should award a Laurel wreath for The Ancient Art of Honesty. If such an award is instituted a strong contender for the inaugural award ought to be Westlifer Shane Filan who recently declared that "I've never read a book in my life - I just can't see the point." AT the end of a year in which deceit seems to be corroding the public's faith in sport someone should award a Laurel wreath for The Ancient Art of Honesty. If such an award is instituted a strong contender for the inaugural award ought to be Westlifer Shane Filan who recently declared that "I've never read a book in my life - I just can't see the point." Alas poor Shane I sympathise. I who am doomed by my avocation to spend the year plodding through a dismal infestation of appalling sport books which semi-literate authors and totally illiterate publishers foist on the general public every year, but especially at Christmas. There were some good ones too but since they were mainly about cricket we won't bother ourselves with them. This year's sporting activities seemed initially to have anticipated Hans Christian Anderson's bicentenary next year as fairytales seemed to abound: Greece winning Euro 2004, Kelly Holmes winning twice at Athens, unknown Todd Hamilton winning the Open, Ireland winning the Triple Crown, Irish ladies winning the Home Internationals, Fermanagh on a roll, Galway Ladies footballers triumphant, lovelorn Monty sealing the Ryder Cup, Rooney's hat-trick, Henry's nutmegging back-heel, Sharapova winning Wimbledon, Singh on song, Puerto Rico bballers stuning the States, Danny Williams stunning Tyson. But there was, as with all fairytales, a darker side too: the Greek sprinters who literally crashed out. The Neil Horan lunge at de Lima. The dismal Irish performances in Athens. Big Ron's nasty outburst. Racism in international soccer. Skulduggery in horse-racing. Meltdown in F1. The Victor Conte bombshell in athletics. The Cian O'Connor saga. The sudden death of young athletes. The best of tales, the worst of tales. And, almost without exception, tales which haven't been captured yet in the sports books under review. True all current GAA books include a mandatory elegiac reference to Cormac McAnallen, true both the Open Committee and Wimbledon have published their photo-chronicles of the 2004 championships and the fleet-footed female duo of Kelly Holmes and Paula Radcliffe have got instant books out on their triumphs and travails. But in general sports literature lags woefully behind the events. 
The Marathon (see below) is a comprehensive account of that Olympic discipline but it misses out on its most tragic-comic moment and Dale Concannon's 
Ryder Cup History is excellent except that it was published ahead of the recent Monty/Langer triumph. Instead of chronicling contemporary sporting events most sport writers seem happier to concentrate on some perceived genres wherein they hope to hit upon the next Seabiscuit or win the William Hill prize. So we have any amount of books about nags who are reared in obscure stables and hey presto win the Derby/Grand National/Breeders' Cup. And we have no end to books about black athletes who suffered for their skins and then went on to become superstars. (This year's black biggie is William Hill winner 
Basil D'Oliveira by Peter Oborne). We also have endless books about Ali who threatens to become a publishing bore. As is David Beckham. And we are reaching saturation point with the once book-starved GAA. What the market requires is some good sports fiction (sp'iction). What it got this year was a number of dire examples of sp'iction at its worst. Unless of course you widen the definition of sp'iction to include Mark Haddon's kidult masterpiece 
The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time which included references to international soccer and featured two characters called Mr Shears and Mrs Gascoyne! (You wouldn't need a degree in Da Vinci decoding to spot the Toon connection). Haddon's imaginative exploration of Asperger's Syndrome may not be everyone's cup of Barry's so here are 20 other sport books I heartily recommend. 1 
Schott's Sporting, Gaming and Idling Miscellany (Bloomsbury, ?14.70) The trentarian tea-sipping toff has trumped 'em all again. The Master of arcane facts, jazzy stats, telling trivia and fun facts has worked the miracle again producing a book which is elegantly written, stylishly presented and full of sporting facts. Sod all the flattering imitators and the carping critics who accuse Schott of being a Googol super-trawler this is endlessly entertaining, eminently dip-in-able and - damned accurate. If you like this - you'll find no end of imitators (eg No 6 below and Dan Brennan 
The Official Arsenal Miscellany, Hamlyn, ?12.99). 2 
The Road to Croker Eamonn Sweeney (Hodder Lir, ?13.40). A rollicking, rumbustious, spicy account of the 2003 Gaelic Championships laced with wit and sometimes flecked with saeva indignatio. Easily best Irish sports book of the year and a joy to read and re-read. Best book on Gaelic games since Brendan O hEihir's crying-out-for-republication 
Over the Bar. If you like the angrier passages in The Road you might like the slightly cantankerous, severely martyred, faintly paranoid tone of the massive selling 
I Crossed the Line: The Liam Dunne Story (Dunne, Lawlor, Sliabh Ban, ?14). Also the 10th edition of Brian Carty's authoritative 
The Championship (Sliabh Ban, ?14.99) 3 
The Grand Slam Mark Frost (Time Warner ?26.99) The second book, like the second album, is supposed to be the hard one and after the massive success of 
The Greatest Game Ever Played critics doubted Frost's ability to pull it off again. He has in this wonderful bio of Bobby Jones, the first man to lay successful siege to the Impregnable Quadrilateral (more prosaically, the Grand Slam). Weaving social and personal history and writing in that picture-evoking, limpid style and cinematographic manner that becomes the former writer/producer of Hill Street Blues and Twin Peaks, Frost evokes the man and the magic moment. Top drawer! And if you like that you'll also savour 
The Open Championship 2004 (Hazleton ?27.35) which pictorially chronicles the victory of another great Yank - Todd Hamilton. 4 
Inside the Olympics: a behind the scenes look Dick Pound (Wiley, ?20) The former vice-President of the IOC and the founder of the World anti-Doping Agency issued this admonitory douche of commonsense in advance of the well-run farce that was Athens. Pound doesn't pull punches in warning us of the nightmarish hegemony of drug cheats and calling for a return to Olympic values. Earnest but worthy stuff. Other Olympic tomes worth a dekko (even if they have been superseded by the summer charade) are the lavish 
The Olympic Games Athens 1896 - Athens 2004 (DK, ?26.99), the even more lavish 
The Olympics Athens to Athens 1896 -2004 (Weidenfeld and Nicolson, ?31.99) and the polished and thought-provoking 
Olympics in Athens 1896 (Profile, ?21) by Michael Llewellyn Smith. 5 
Dancin' with Sonny Liston (Mainstream, ?12.05) Veteran American sports scribe Tom Callahan gets up close and candid with some of the greats and less greats in sport including Payne Stewart, Larry Bird, Boris Becker, Steffi, Ali, Sonny and 'our own' Barry McGuigan. He delivers steady-eyed, dispassionate pen pictures of his subject and explodes some myths in the process. Superbly written and blessedly free of the emotional overlay favoured by American hacks and their pathetic Irish/British pale imitators. Fans of American sport writers should check out on Ebay various publications from 
Sports Illustrated which is celebrating its golden anniversary this year. See also for some dandy writing 
How to be a bad birdwatcher Simon Barnes (Short Books, ?14.80) and 
Booked! Tom Humphries Town House (?11.99 - royalties to Amnesty). 6 
Motson's National Obsession: the greatest football trivia book ever Adam Ward with John Motson (Arcane, ?12.99). Did you know that Cardinal Hume requested the MOTD theme tune for his funeral. (Wouldn't be allowed in certain Irish dioceses today!). I didn't either until I read this flawed but still vastly entertaining book - especially the bits on League of Ireland (which is acknowledged) and Mick Meagan. Some jolly good stuff - though not worth a second hand sheep skin coat. And if you like this you'll probably go gaga for 
Match of the Day 40th Anniversary Martyn Smith (BBC Books, 425) and might enjoy 
Football Lexicon Leigh and Woodhouse (Oleander,?14.80). 7 
Croke Park A History Tim Carey (Collins Press, ?30) Tim Carey, the former curator of the GAA museum performed a true gaisce when he produced a book which subtly blends scholarly research with breezy personal anecdote and tells a compellingly honest account of the most precious pairc in Ireland. The fluent text is much enhanced by excellent illustrations in a sumptuously designed book. First class. Lot of good stuff too in 
The Chosen Ones Martin Breheny and Colm Keys - both of this parish - (Blackwater Press,?15) which celebrates the 1000th All Star by delivering frank, incisive interviews with former stars including the straight-from-the-lipper Gerry McEntee. A lan rudai deas (maybe too many) comh maith in 
From Dun Sion to Croke Park Micheál Ó Muircheartaigh (Penguin Ireland, ?17.99) which manages to be folksily nostalgic, omni-benevolent and yet somewhat distant. 8 
The Lifelong Season Keith Duggan (Town House ?12.99). A fine collection of essays on the GAA today which does indeed fulfil its subtitle by getting under the skins and into the hearts of players and mentors alike. Duggan writes well but I was a tad disappointed that the prose didn't reach lyrical heights he sometimes achieves in his diurnal journalism. Some chapters work less well than others but the affectionate accounts of the Tuam football nursery St Jarlath's and of inner city St Lawrence's Girls national school are stand outs in an excellent book which seems to be almost an updating of Tom Humphries' fine 
Green Fields. Ulster is fast becoming the heartland of the GAA so readers North and South might profit from reading 
The Sons of Sam Seamus Maloney (The Brehon Press, ?17.50) an honest to God account of 'eight decades of Ulster's footballing excellence'. 9 
Bagman Colin Byrne (Red Rock Press, ?14.99, royalties to Multiple Sclerosis Society of Ireland). As a former bagman/looper/caddie to top class amateur players I always take pleasure in Byrne's despatches from behind the ropes of 'the exclusive world of pro golf'. Byrne is a top class 'lifer' caddie, a fine writer and a clearly generous soul. This book rocks. Read, enjoy and help a very worthy cause as you relish a trip to parts the camera cannot reach! A good companion buy would be the ace 
My Baby Got the Yips Richard Russell (Aurum, ?14.60) which consists of the musings and rantings of a sweaterless six handicapper with pungent views on the Great Obsession. A gem. Less gemmy and more maudlin is 
Caddy for Life The Bruce Edwards Story John Feinstein (Little, Brown, ?27) which suffers from mannered writing and emotional overkill. 10 
Lady Icarus: 
the Life of Irish Aviator Lady Mary Heath Lindie Naughton (Ashfield, ?25). An outstanding, gracefully written, superbly designed book about a heavens-exploring, hell-raising Limerick gal, born Sophie Peirce Evans, who was a world record holding athlete before she defied gravity and conventions by her daring aviational adventures. Lindie Naughton's painstaking research and fluent style has produced an enthralling book which will help you soar on wings above the post-turkey stodginess and help fill in some glaring gaps in our social and sporting history to boot. And staying in the great empyrean get your bins out and take a look at the tour de force 
A Bird in the Bush: a Social history of Birdwatching Stephen Moss (Aurum, ?24.15). Yes it's been a good year for the twee twees. 11 
Willie John The Story of My life Willie John McBride with Peter Bills (Portrait, ?24.99). Ballymena, currently famous in Irish politics for sackcloths and ashes, was once famous in Irish sport for a Red Lions' jerseys and a pipe-smoking giant called Willie John. In this bluff, no nonsense book Willie John recalls it as it was and delivers some very forthright views on the professionalism of the game he loves and adorned. A fast moving if unspectacular read which will whet your appetite for 
The Voice of Rugby Bill McLaren (Bantam, ?24) an endearing autobio of That Voice and for 
The Full Bag of Chips Peter O'Reilly (O'Brien, 419.95) a lively romp through Ireland's Triple Crown history and last year's campaign. Other odd shaped ball books clamouring for attention or your money inc 
Odd-Shaped Balls John Scally (Mainstream, ?14.99), a moderately entertaining collection of rugger 'funnies'. Less funny is Clive Woodward's didactic 
Winning (Hodder and Stoughton, ?28.95) and pin up Jonny Wilkinson's 
My World ((Headline, ?28.95). 12 
Tie-Break! Mark Ryan (Robson, ?25.30). A remarkably and sometimes uncomfortably frank look at the inner turmoil of Belgian tennis ace and triple Grand Slammer Justine Henin-Hardenne. Who said Belgians are boring - certainly not anyone who reads this fascinating look at the strained relationship (or non relationship) between Henin and her family. Writer Mark Ryan insinuated himself into the confidence of the estranged Henin family and delivers the traumatic goods with maximum Hammer effect. Great gruesome read! By contrast there's more name drops than drop shots in 
Mr Nastase (Collins Willow, ?23.99) a bloated volume detailing his amour proper. 
The Championship Wimbledon Official Annual 2004 (?31.70) is light on text but lots of piccies of Federer and eh yes Maria Sharapova. Don't tell Ille. 13 
Nick Faldo Life Swings Nick Faldo with Robert Philip (Headline ?28.50) It's time for people to give up on hating poor Nick. In a delightfully honest book Nick makes it clear that he wants to be loved. He also tells lots more besides and asks forgiveness for previous failings. Dr Paisley would power-share with this man. One of the world's greatest ever golfers Faldo has never been one of the most loved but this book might well turn the tide - especially among Irish golfers when they discover his genuine love for Irish courses, Irish tournaments and Irish galleries. Strongly recommended for all wielders of the brassie and niblick. Less keenly recommended is 
Peter Alliss My Life (Hodder and Stoughton, ?28.50), a shoddily written if interesting memoir from the mellifluous voice of golf. 14 
Funny Cide Sally Jenkins (Michael Joseph, 423.99). A Seabiscuity feel to this contemporary tale about 'an impossible horse' and a small Saratogan stable that took on the big boys and won. The clone-like status is alleviated by the fact that it is an absorbing story told with verve and at a nice clipped pace. This just pipped by a noseband on the wire 
A Year at the Races Jane Smiley (Faber and Faber, ?17.990 ) an overlyrical anthropomorphic ode to the horsies. Third placed was 
Rock of Gibraltar Martin Hannan (Cutting Edge, ?25.50) which tells at a pedestrian pace the well trotted out tale of the titular horse and the very public squabble which engrossed and embarrassed Red fans and ABUs alike. Kerry born 'Voice of the Races' and 'King of the Naps' Peter O'Sullevan's 
Horse Racing Heroes (Highdown, ?28.95) is a superb mixture of informed text and evocative illustrations. 
Best Mate: the Illustrated Story Anne Holland (Orion ) had nice pics but is poorly written. 
Pearl Justin Doyle (Justin Doyle, ?20) fast paced, more sonnett than epic. 15 
One More Kilometre and 
We're in the Showers Tim Hilton (Harper Collins, ?25.15) A real charmer. A muscularly-challenged, puffed out amateur cyclist wittily recounts how he, a Brummie commie, fell in love with cycling, and recalls the golden age of road cycling. More Jerome K Jerome's 
Three Men and a Brummel than Kimmage's 
Rough Ride and all the better for that. On a related theme see 
Bicycle: the History David V Herlihy (Yale University Press, ?28.95), which tells with scholarly elan the social history of the bike. Less keenly recommended is 
Every Second Counts Lance Armstrong (?9.56). 16 
Marathon! T Collings and S Sykes (Virgin, ?30). The problem with long distance running is that after all the strain, toil and wall-hitting you end up being pipped at the post. Or being attacked by an apocalyptic ex-cleric. Sadly despite its comprehensiveness - 'an epic tale of an epic event' - this book has been overtaken by the Athens farce. Nonetheless it is an excellent history of the marathon and worth buying just to wince at celeb marathoner Sean P Diddy Combs's megalomania. The Bedford babe Paula Radcliffe has a chapter devoted to her in Marathon! But she now has her own book too - 
Paula: My Story So Far (Simon and Schuster, ?26.10) and as with the long-limbed lady herself it's a good one. More athletic masochism in the William Hill Awards-listed 
Feet in the Clouds Richard Askwith (Aurum Press,?25.32 ) which is the diary of an English journo who subjects himself to fell running for a pastime. Where is the old spirit of El Vino I ask myself! 17 
Triumph and Tragedy in Mudville Stephen Jay Gould (Jonathan Cape, ?26.80) A dead palaeontologist writing learnedly about baseball may not be your idea of ideal Yuletide reading but dispense with the prejudices and wallow in Mudville and delight in the graceful prose and the aficionado's celebration of a game which is as much part of America as Homer Simpson or Michael Moore's ugly parka. Seriously scientific and soporifically sublime. Like baseball itself! More good quality American sportswriting in Ben Hogan: 
An American Life (Aurum, ?28.80) a well-written if rather dull authorised bio. 18 
EXtreme Golf Duncan Lennard (Pavilion ?30.14) The current fad for Xtreme sports shows no signs of abating and thus we have utter nutters Xtreme-ironing on the North Face or zorbing down live volcanos - or playing Xtreme golf in the wonderfully remote and indecently exotic Xtreme golf course lovingly captured in this top notch production. Lots of exotic locations and bizarre sporting apercus in the wickedly titled 
Where Am I and Who's Winning? Andrew Baker (Yellow Press, ?16.15) about the globetrotting exploits of a British sports hack - but sadly it's not as funny as it thinks it is.  TOP 10 SPORT BOOK SELLERS 2004 1 Booked! Tom Humphries 2 Bagman Colin Byrne 3 Golf is not a Game of Perfect Dr Bob Rotella 4 It's Not all about the Bike Lance Armstrong 5 Touching the Void Joe Simpson 6 I Crossed the Line Liam Dunne 7 Willie John My Story Willie John McBride 8 Laptop Dancing and the Nanny Goat Mambo Tom Humphries 9 Rules of the Game Pierluigi Collina 10 Every Second Counts Lance Armstrong All titles available at Eason nationwide. (List supplied by Eason) 
