sport football
{  
    September 04 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/sport/other-sports/gaa-27776408.html }
St Maurs Minor Football Cup  St. Maurs 1-13, Fingal Ravens 0-6. This was a superb performance by fifteen young Rush men against a highly fancied Ravens team, hot on winning the recent Garristown Minor tournament. No outstanding individual performances by St. Maurs but a supper team performance. Tobin Cup – Junior Hurling – Maurs 4-5, St. Sylvesters 4-9. Club Lottery numbers 1-2-6-8, no winner, 8 match 3 receive 25 Euro each, next week’s jackpot is 6,600 Euro. Bingo Captain is T. Hayden, chairs P. Naughton. Juvenile tracksuits are now in stock and are available in the club shop. Many congratulations to Chris Moore and the Dublin minor team on their victory over Cork to reach the All Ireland Final. Joe Dolan will play at Aras Naomh Maur on Saturday 20th September. Tickets are 30 Euro each. Phone the clubhouse on 8438233 (evenings only). The club wishes a speedy recovery to full health to Michael Ryan who has been out of action for the last couple of weeks. Get well soon. A fun day is been organised for Sept 14th from 3 to 6pm in Balheary. A full agenda of activities is available in clubhouse,those interested in helping out on the day,should contact a member of the juvenile committee. The summer draw was held last Friday night and was a great success with all tickets sold before the draw was made, the club wishes to thanks all members and supporters who purchased tickets for the draw. Full list of winners available on web site / clubhouse. No Lotto Winner last weekend. Next weekend jackpot 750. No fixtures for Junior A & B teams this weekend. U15 training tomorrow at 7pm in Balheary. Congratulations to the Dublin Minor team on reaching the All Ireland Finals. The club offer their condolences to the Gallagher family following their recent bereavement. Congratulations to John O'Hara and Donnacha Reilly on their All Ireland Semi Final win with Dublin Minors. Good luck in the final. Football and Camogie nurseries resume on Saturday at 11a.m. and 12.30p.m respectively. Hurling Nursery for U9's resumes on Tuesday 9th September at 4p.m. Games meetings continue on Thursday nights in the clubhouse. Dublin v Antrim in Camogie at the club on Saturday. Executive meeting takes place on Wednesday 10th September in Clubhouse. The Skerries Harps Golf Classic took place on Friday 15th August with a total of 26 team participating. On a superbly sunny day the winning team, with a total of 95 points, was Christy Jenkinson (17), John Connolly (15), Morgan Grimes (8) and P.G. Grimes (8). They are all members of Skerries Golf Club. The longest drive was won by David Murray and Nearest the Pin was won by Paul "Hulky" Wilde. Well done to all involved and thanks to all the teams who took part. C & T Superstore, Skerries who we would like to thank for their support very generously sponsored the Classic. Thanks also to Skerries Golf Club for the use of their facilities. The meal was excellent and a great social evening was had by all. Congratulations to William Moore and the Dublin Minor team on their great win over Cork in the All-Ireland semi-final. Also well done to Niamh Hurley and the Dublin Senior team on reaching the All-Ireland semi-final with a well earned win over Monaghan. The club would like to say well done to all the children who particapated in the Summer Camp this year an enjoyable week was had by all. Thanks to all the coaches and everyone who helped out during the week. Sincere sympathy to club President Johnny Kelly and his family on the death of his wife Essie. RIP. We are holding a special Under 18 Disco on the 19th of September to raise funds for the Antoinette Kearns fund. We expect all our young members to support this worthy cause. Well done to the Dublin Ladies on reaching the All Ireland semi final. This team deserves more support than it is currently getting, so we urge all of you to come along to the next match. Congratulations also to the Dublin minor Football team on reaching the All Ireland final. Our Senior Hurlers earned a well deserved draw with Oliver Plunketts. On Wednesday night our Senior Footballers play at home at 6.45 in the league and our Junior Footballers have their championship replay in Balgriffin at 6.45. Our Senior Footballers also play at home on Saturday at 6.30pm. If any Mentor has any old sets of jerseys not in use would they please contact Joan Walsh. Music continues each Monday and Saturday night. We now have Line Dancing on Wednesdays nights at 8pm. The Club wishes to extend its sympathy to the Linehan on their recent bereavement. Well done to our Junior Hurlers who beat St Marks in the Junior C Championship final in O‚Toole park last Sunday. They put in a tremendous team performance and much credit must also go to their management team for leading them to glory. Fixtures for the coming week include intermediates vs St Pats (P) in the league on Sunday at 11am away and in the Quarter finals of the Junior B Championship in Balgriffin the Junior A play Ballyboden at 10:30am. The ‘Stuffer’ Brennan Cup is played for this Friday evening at 7pm between O‚Dwyers and St Pats of Donabate. Intermediate and Junior A footballers have training on Tuesdays and Thursdays in club at 7pm. Junior B football training Wednesdays at 7:15pm in club. Nursery is on Saturday mornings from 11am til 12:30 and for kids aged 5 to 10. There is plenty of fun to be had with hurling, camogie and football. Live music every Sunday night in the club. Bingo on Wed. nights @ 8:40pm in Clubhouse, all welcome. LOCAL driver Michael Barrable crashed out on the first stage of the Galway Summer Rally in Portumna, round eight of the Dunlop National Rally Championship. Full results 1 Eugene Donnelly/Paddy Toner (Impreza WRC) 70m 16s, 2 Niall Maguire/Paul McLaughlin (Impreza WRC) 71m 19s, 3 Adrian McElvaney/Paul Goodman (Impreza WRC) 71m 41s, 4 Patrick Elliott/Martin Cahill (Impreza WRC) 71m 49s, 5 Jim Harrison/Harvey Bell (Impreza WRC) 71m 52s, 6 Denis Cronin/Helen O'Sullivan (BMW M3) 73m 09s, 7 John Spain/Peter Egan (Celica) 73m 10s, 8 Sean Gallagher/Francis Kenny (Escort Cosworth) 73m 55s, 9 Sean Lyons/John Devine (Escort) 75m 16s, 10 Anthony O’Halloran/Bob Kelly (Manta) 75m 23s. Thurs 4 Sep: Drogheda United v Waterford United, 02 Park (8pm) Referee: D Hanney Fri 5 Sep: St. Patrick's Athletic v Shamrock Rovers, Richmond Park (7pm) Referee: A Kelly Shelbourne v Derry City, Tolka Park (7.45pm) Referee: J McDermott Longford Town v Bohemians, Flancare Park (8pm) Referee: A Buttimer Sun 7 Sep: UCD v Cork City, Belfield Park (3.15pm) Referee: P Tuite eircom League First Division Series 20 Fixtures Thurs. 4 Sep: Dundalk v Monaghan United, Oriel Park (7.45pm) Referee: S Meighan Fri 5 Sep: Kildare County v Cobh Ramblers, Station Road (7.30pm) Referee: J O'Neill Athlone Town v Kilkenny City, St. Mel's Park (7.45pm) Referee: P Sutton Bray Wanderers v Sligo Rovers, Carlisle Grounds (7.45pm) Referee: E Barr Finn Harps v Dublin City, Finn Park (8pm) Referee: D Hancock Sun. 7 Sep: Galway United v Limerick, Terryland Park (6pm) Referee: D Deady As part of the implementation of the 'Fingal Sports Strategy 2003-2007' we are organising two seminars titled; 'Women in Irish Sport' The issues discussed will include; Women's Health, sport and physical activity; Institutional supports for women in sport, and Gender equity in sports provision. Participants are invited from all sports clubs, local agencies, women's groups and others interested in developing sport for women in Fingal. The findings and feedback from these seminars will form part of the FSP's submission to the Oireachtas Joint Committee on Arts, Sports and Tourism on 'Women in Irish Sport' and inform Fingal Sports Partnership policy and practice. A seminar takes place on Thursday the 4th of September, 2003 @ 8pm in the Meeting Room, Fingallians GAA Club, Swords, Co. Dublin. The Fingal Sports Partnership is Fingal's local Sports Development Agency and our mission is to; "promote access to, participation in, and the enjoyment of sport and physical activity for all the people of Fingal." We have developed a strategy 'fingal sports strategy 2003-2007' to co-ordinate the sustainable development of Sport in Fingal. Copies of this document and of the 'Executive Summary' are available from our offices or online. 
