sport football
{  
    December 31 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/kingdom-saved-by-magnificent-moynihan-26257947.html }
Selecting the Sportstar of 2000 was not easy. So many  competed so successfully. Racing alone had a string of  claimants  John Oxx, Johnny Murtagh, Ruby and Ted Walsh, Tony McCoy . . . and there was Sonia in Sydney,  Brian O'Driscoll in Paris, the late Joey Dunlop's final flourish in the Isle of Man . . . Séamus Moynihan's glorious  summer . . . and so many more. PAUL KIMMAGE recalls a lively and lengthy debate in the Sunday Independent sports room, while TOMMY CONLON profiles the final  choice A FEW years ago, a young sportswriter at The Sunday Tribune had the temerity to suggest to the editor, Vincent Browne, that after three days of extensive trawling in Liverpool, it was "impossible" to secure an interview with John Aldridge. Vincent, a devout Aldo fan, wasn't very impressed. "They've put a man on the surface of the moon", he snorted. "They've built a tunnel under the sea between England and France! And you're telling me its impossible to interview a footballer!" His logic could be devastating. I was reminded of that logic more than once recently, when our sports department convened to select the inaugural @@STYL CF,PLAI Sunday Independent @@STYL CF,PLA Sports Star of The Year. There were nine of us gathered round the table and after more than an hour of heated debate: "That's bullshit!" "What an extraordinary statement!" "I disagree emphatically!" "What a load of crap!" ... progress was slow. Our sports editor, Adhamhnán O'Sullivan, had set a truly @@STYL cf,plai impossible @@STYL CF,PLA task. They built a tunnel under the sea between England and France? Sure they did. They put a man on the surface of the moon? Sure they did. But try applying science and high-powered tools to a seasonal debate on sport! What sort of gauge do you use to measure a marathon runner with a javelin thrower? A footballer with a hockey player? A jockey with a trainer? An Olympian with a paralympian? A paralympian with a paralympian? The Olympic Games with the All-Ireland Hurling Championships? The Isle of Man TT races with the Prix de L'Arc de Triomphe? The US Open with the Six Nations Championship? A team sport with an international dimension to a team sport without one? And shouldn't gender be a consideration? Are we that hard-up at Independent House that we can't at least select a Sportsman of the Year and a Sportswoman of the Year? Shouldn't there be more than one award? But the sports editor was adamant. "We're nailing our colours to the mast," he insisted. "There'll be no wishy-washy kicking for touch. We're choosing one award, one champion, our Sports Star of The Year. On Saturday nights in pubs the length and breadth of the country, this is what sports fans haggle about." And at 11.0 on the morning of December 19, nine fans convened and the haggling began. "Can I say, from the outset," George Hook announced in his typically forthright way, "that I don't think the award should go to Sonia O'Sullivan ... I mean, making a Sports Star of The Year out of someone who lost is a dichotomy." "How do you define loss?" Kevin Kimmage countered. "She finished second." "But second out of how many? It's not rugby! It's not as simple as win or lose!" "Of course it is." "I think George has a point," Dermot Crowe concured. "I think there was a definite sense of anti-climax when she didn't win gold. And for an athlete of her stature, that does taint the performance a little bit." Adhamhnán seems pleased from his seat at the table. "Okay," he smiles. "Before we get into the various arguments can we first establish the candidates?" A good year for sport? It certainly wasn't a bad one. After a short debate, the list of 11 stars of the year almost picks itself. DJ CAREY: Hurler of the Year, the Kilkenny forward finally buried a ghost with a performance to silence his critics in the All-Ireland Final. DARREN CLARKE: His win over Tiger Woods at the World Matchplay Championship was the finest performance by an Irish golfer since Fred Daly's Open triumph in 1947. Finished the season as the European Number 2. JOEY DUNLOP: Would the late, great, Joey have made our list were it not for his fatal crash in July? Probably not. But his passing has heightened our awareness of how special he was. A legend. PADRAIG HARRINGTON: If one of the keynotes in sport is triumph over adversity, then Harrington's reaction at the Belfry in May, when he was disqualified when leading the B&H International Open for failing to sign his card, was the true measure of a sportsman. Twice a tournament winner, he finished the season as the European Number six after his best ever season. ROY KEANE: Week-in, week-out, still the best player in the Premiership. Has been doing it so consistently for so long that we tend to take him for granted. Was voted by his peers as the Player of the Year in April. DECLAN KIDNEY: The Munster and Ireland A coach doesn't make a lot of noise about himself, but his achievements this year were remarkable. SEAMUS MOYNIHAN: Another who likes to let his deeds do to the talking, the Kerry captain was a unanimous choice as The Footballer of the Year. JOHNNY MURTAGH: After a brilliant double-Derby summer, the 31-year-old Meathman stepped from the shadows of Eddery, Fallon and Kinane at Longchamp with his win on Sinndar in the Arc. 12 Group One winners. Jockey of the year. BRIAN O'DRISCOLL: Strange things happen at Lansdowne Road when O'Driscoll takes the ball and runs. We haven't had so much excitement packaged in a green shirt since Simon Geoghegan. JOHN OX: We've been reading about the training feats of Vincent O'Brien for years, but Ox's achievements with Sinndar this year, was as good a training performance as we've had for 50 years. SONIA O'SULLIVAN: Eight years after Barcelona, four years after Atlanta, at last, finally, an Olympic medalist. But 11 heroes is ten too many. Clarke, Dunlop, Harrington, Keane and Ox are eliminated in the first ballot. O'Sullivan and Murtagh are promoted to the final shake-up. The call is now Moynihan or Carey; O'Driscoll or Kidney. Tommy Conlon: I think what Moynihan did for Kerry was greater than what Carey did for Kilkenny. Dermot Crowe: I agree, And not just that, but what he did for the game itself. The flamboyance of him ... the talent ... the skill ... Moynihan is given the nod, but the O'Driscoll/Kidney battle is much more animated. Brendan Fanning has championed O'Driscoll's cause. George Hook is making a case for Kidney. Brendan Fanning: If ever there was a game that was hanging around the neck of Irish rugby, it was the game in Paris. And not only did we blow the French away, but O'Driscoll scored three f**king tries in the process! You could not have scripted it. When you were sitting there, watching it, it was like 'Christ is this actually happening?' But George is not convinced. George Hook: O'Driscoll is an individual. Kidney's effect has been extraordinary on groups of individuals. What Munster achieved was directly attributable to his involvement. And Ireland A never did anything until Kidney arrived. O'Driscoll's is a purely individualistic contribution. And two of the tries he scored in Paris were from less than ten yards. He is very talented but he is also very lucky: luck has gone his way this year and we'll have to wait and see whether the next year is going to be the same when it really gets hard. Brendan Fanning: But this is O'Driscoll's second year. George Hook: But my problem with both of the rugby candidates is that I don't honestly feel that either of them merit being Ireland's sports star of the year. I don't want to knock either but I'm not excited enough. Listening to what is being said about Moynihan makes me very excited. Adhamhnán O'Sullivan: I say we kick out rugby. I think Moynihan's case is stronger than either of those. A vote is taken. O'Driscoll and Kidney are chopped. THREE stars, one award, nine empty coffee cups and a room buzzing with opinion and proposition. Was Sonia O'Sullivan's finest hour at the Olympic Games in Sydney a silver medal won or a gold medal lost? Is Seamus Moynihan, the nation's best footballer, lucky he cannot compete in the international arena or unlucky? How great was the element of fortune in Johnny Murtagh's success? Was he really the Jockey of The Year? Wouldn't Kinane and Eddery and Fallon have won on Sinndar as well? Ian McLean: "If you take the top six jockeys and give them the same book of rides, you will tend to get the same results. There isn't a great difference between them, so the element of luck has to be acknowledged. Having said that, if you had been told at the beginning of June that Johnny Murtagh would ride 12 Group One winners, you wouldn't have believed it. Was he the year's best jockey? Undoubtedly. Is he the world's best jockey? Not yet. Paul Kimmage: Okay, you've just talked him out of it for me. Let's make a case for Sonia. Tommy Conlon: I feel a bit guilty of Sonia fatigue at this stage. Paul Kimmage: Well, maybe we all do, but that's irrelevant. It's not a personality contest. Tommy Conlon: No, but. I had mixed feelings when she came across the line as well. It seems to me that Sonia O'Sullivan has reached the age of 30 without ever really getting to grips with championship running at its most extreme. Paul Kimmage: Not true. We're talking about a former World Champion, double World Cross Country Champion and European champion! Ask Coughlan or Treacy their opinion and they'll tell you she's the greatest athlete we've ever had. Tommy Conlon: Well the point I'm trying to make is that for a woman of her extravagant natural talents, she has been consistently undermined by her mental frailties throughout her life. And I believe that was the case also in Sydney. Dermot Crowe: I agree. Of course she is the best we've ever had, but isn't there a nagging doubt at the back of your mind saying: 'If she had only won that gold at the Olympic Games?' And she is such a strange individual. We almost feel like a father and mother to her every time she runs! Adhamhnán O'Sullivan: I think it's important to remember that we are picking the Sports Star of 2000. We must judge her on her achievements this year. Paul Kimmage: Fine, but you cannot dismiss everything that has gone before. She came into that race with so much baggage. And the reason that has to be taken into account is when you consider who we're measuring her against: Murtagh needed a trainer and a good horse under him! MOYNIHAN needed 14 other players! O'Sullivan travelled to Sydney with 3m people watching and a gun pointed to her head. There was no lonelier sports star in Ireland when she lined up for that race. It was all down to her. Brendan Fanning: But you have to address the achievement. Before the race in Sydney, did you say 'In order for this woman to banish her demons, she must come home with a gold medal?' Or did you say 'In order for this woman to overcome her demons she must come home with a medal.' Paul Kimmage: Okay, let's forget all that stuff and just look at the race, and again, this is a point you've made about O'Driscoll. Wasn't that last lap, when she moved onto Szabo's shoulder, absolutely magical? Wasn't that a wow! The moment of the year? Isn't that what its all about? Brendan Fanning: Yeah but roll the video on a bit. She is on Szabo's shoulder, we are getting wildly excited but she can't get past and we are suddenly disappointed. George Hook: Sonia O'Sullivan is the female equivalent of Ron Clarke. Ron Clarke broke more world records in 5,000m and 10,000m than anybody else. Kevin Kimmage: She's never broken a world record. Sean Ryan: She's a racer, not a record breaker. George Hook: The point I was trying to make is that what undermined Ron Clarke's career is that he never won a gold medal at the Olympics. Adhamhnán O'Sullivan: Okay, the question now is why Moynihan, rather than Murtagh and O'Sullivan? Dermot Crowe: Well I would choose him because of his impact, not just in terms of his performances for Kerry, but his impact in the wider sense. Gaelic football has been going through a very rough patch in the last couple of years and the standards have been pretty woeful. Moynihan is an out-and-out footballer. His performances were outstanding. Kevin Kimmage: His biggest achievement was that he played in a position he had never played in before this year. He didn't want the position and he didn't like it because he is more of a ball player than a man-marker, but he basically held the defence together. Tommy Conlon: He accidentally reinvented full back play. He was an extraordinary amalgam of all sorts of qualities. Sprint out to a low ball? He's quick! Change direction? He'll do it in a flash. The corner back is in trouble? The Moynihan fire brigade arrives! The range of functions he performed was exceptional. There were times in the press box when you shook your head and thought 'My God that was just fantastic!' Paul Kimmage: But haven't we said the same things in other years about players like Trevor Giles? How does he compare? Dermot Crowe: Well you will always have a footballer of the year, but I think he was a notch above that again. I think he brought it on to a different level, reminded us what a fantastic game it can be, but hasn't been for so long. After 95 minutes of heated debate it is time to make a decision. After a vote, Seamus Moynihan is elected our Sports Star of The Year. It wasn't a unanimous decision, but there are no qualms with the outcome: 'My God he was just fantastic!' Thanks for making the year in the press box so much fun.IT is the 14th minute of the All-Ireland football final and Séamus Moynihan makes his first big play of the day. Galway's Derek Savage wins a ball out by the sideline on the new stand side, looks up for an option and sees one. It's Pádraig Joyce, steaming through from centre half forward, arm in the air: he wants the ball. Moynihan is in pursuit and a few yards behind. In the game that everyone wanted to see happen, between the two best teams in the country, this was the confrontation that everyone wanted to witness, between the two best players in the country - full back and full forward, team captains, good friends and former college team mates. It takes a delicate touch, this pass, getting it to dip over the head of the defender into the arms of your target man. Savage has a cut, dashing it off his left foot as the two players reach the 21-yard line. Everyone in the packed stadium knows instantly and exactly what he is trying to do. It is one of those moments that are hard to find when you have 30 players on a field: a duel between two men who - with no one else around to interfere or help out - literally have no place to hide. Facing his own goal and running towards it at full tilt, trying to maintain contact with Joyce while also looking over his shoulder at Savage, this is awkward for Moynihan. He is not in control. Yet, in a flash, he is. Savage's pass is nearly good enough but not quite, and in the millisecond available to him, Moynihan reacts to the flight of the ball, adjusts his feet and sticks it to his hands as a shivering "ooooh" ripples through the crowd. God, that was close. Four inches higher and the ball was Joyce's and maybe the goal was on. But suddenly the panic is over. Back at the start of the year when Barry O'Shea broke down and Kerry hadn't another full back in the county, the Moynihan debate took off. Sure, he'd do a good job at full back, but at what cost to the team? It was a waste: he was to be the launch pad at centre half back, the glue that would hold the defence together, sweep up behind midfield and provide a bit of punch in the attack. At full back he would be out of position, tied down and underemployed. But the arguments were over long before the season was: the man was quite simply phenomenal. It is the 44th minute of the drawn All-Ireland semi-final, Kerry are playing Armagh and the Ulster champions are turning the screw in the second half. Kieran Hughes, the Armagh right half back, comes bursting through midfield and feeds his corner forward Steven McDonnell on the 21. Hughes keeps coming and McDonnell plays the return over the head of his marker, Michael McCarthy, leaving the ball in space for Hughes to run onto. Moynihan, retreating and watching developments from the last line of defence, makes his move, abandoning his man in one sudden and decisive burst to get to Hughes, some 10 yards away. Just as Hughes picks up the return Moynihan meets him with what can only be described as a mighty shoulder, bang on, which flattens him and kills the move. It ends with a hit-and-hope effort from Oisín McConville which is caught by goalkeeper Declan O'Keeffe and Kerry come away with the ball. But they give it away almost immediately and Moynihan is back in action, this time under a high ball which he breaks down. A Kerry and Armagh player contest it but while they're dithering over it, Moynihan slides in, prods the ball clear, picks it up and offloads. WHERE to start. Maybe from the bottom up: his feet. He is so good on them, so well-balanced, and able to adjust them so quickly that he can match the twists and turns of the best forwards in the game. "Here's Oisín McConville," said Ger Canning in the 63rd minute of the same match, "taking on Moynihan." One-on-one, McConville tried to go inside - blocked; outside - blocked also. There was no way past. In the replay McConville didn't even try to go by him. Confronted by Moynihan he just fired from where he stood, and with some success too. If the Kerryman wasn't as quick on his feet he would not have got to Hughes on time and if he wasn't as sharp on them he wouldn't be able to brake almost instantly, the way he can, when he needs to stop and change direction. Nought to 60, and 60 to nought, either way in a flash. As in the final minute of extra time in that replay, when Armagh were making a desperate bid for the goal that would rescue them. Moynihan came flying across his square, left to right, to cover an Armagh substitute. The sub stepped inside and shaped to shoot, Moynihan braked and by the time the player had dropped the ball to his foot, he was coming back right to left and diving full-length to make a fingertip block on the ball. It is five minutes into the second half of that drawn game with Armagh, perhaps the busiest half of Moynihan's season and the best too, when - with respect to the brave young backs around him - he becomes a virtual one-man Kerry defence. It is a tour-de-force of tackles, blockdowns, interventions, catches and clearances. McConville has taken a pass at speed in midfield and with most of the Kerry defenders sucked out the field, looks to have a clear run on goal - if he can get by Moynihan. Which he should do, coming at speed against a player who is necessarily static, waiting for him to arrive. And he very nearly does but Moynihan manages to get something on him - a tug on his left arm as it happens, which is illegal but missed by the referee. It's enough to check McConville's run but he still figures on having enough time and space to kick for a point except that suddenly the space is filled by the Kerryman's frame just as the ball leaves McConville's boot. The full-length diving blockdown is not just inspirational, it also deserves marks for artistic impression too: neat, symmetrical and perfectly-timed. The ball ricochets off his arms towards the left corner. Moynihan is off his knees and after it in a flash - McConville looks shocked. The number three offloads to a colleague and Kerry score at the other end. From the feet and legs to the hips and torso: loads of power up top and he knows how to use it. The videos of this year's championship are littered with demonstrations of his force at close-quarters, winning several 50-50 contests for the ball with his low-centred power and active shoulders. And how come he always seems to occupy the right ground under the incoming ball? Presumably because he has won the physical argument with whoever else wanted to occupy it as they waited for it to arrive. Time and again he is in the right position to meet it while the opponent is that bit behind, or too far forward, or slightly to the left or right and therefore badly-placed to dispute it. IT is the 33rd minute of the drawn All-Ireland final and Niall Finnegan, the Galway corner forward, has slipped by Moynihan's rash lunge along the endline. He is on his feet so fast, however, that when Finnegan chances a solo, perhaps a second later, Moynihan is back to actually snatch the ball from the Galwayman as it travels the tiny distance between his foot and his hand. Just plunders it from him and away. At the top there is the head and that was busy too this year, reading the play, making judgement calls - should I stay or go? - and anticipating the arrival of the ball into his territory almost before the kicker has delivered it. It's called being in the right place at the right time but it goes nowhere near to explaining the mystery behind it. Along with the anticipation and judgement there is the concentration, this ability to sustain his mental application over the full length of a game. Mistakes, therefore, are a rarity. But there were a few, usually connected to the fact that despite everything, he is not a natural full back. He does not share the inherent caution of that breed, or their pathological aversion to committing themselves for fear of leaving the path to goal open. Moynihan doesn't - and didn't - hold back and once or twice it might have been expensive. It is the 35th minute of the drawn semi-final and the Armagh midfielder John McEntee launches a garryowen. Three Kerry men and a couple of Armagh men converge underneath it. That's plenty to be going on with but Moynihan cannot resist and he too joins the throng, arriving late and jumping for it. The ball breaks, Paul McGrane pops it to McConville who has a free run on goal with the full back out of position - he blasts it over, a let-off. So he's not a natural full back but, big deal, the way he played the position, in one big game after another, at times left you shaking your head in wonder. He played it in fact with a quality that is the opposite to caution - freedom. He never marked his man obsessively, like many do, standing on their toes even when the ball is a hundred yards away. These are the ones who tend to be the all-important yard behind when the ball is eventually sent in. Moynihan could often be seen several yards away from his man, preferring to be guided by the ball than by the movements of his direct opponent. It is usually called ball-watching but the way he did it, no one could argue: he wasn't just a ball-watcher but a prolific ball-winner too. As a bonus it meant that there wasn't a hint of negativity in his game. Here was someone not playing the man, but the ball, and coming out on top time and again. It proved that you could be implacable without being cynical, and that you could defend not just with total authority, but integrity too. It is perhaps the future: in modern football it is getting more and more costly for backs to foul forwards. The best defenders in time to come will be the ones who are quick enough and good enough to beat the forward to the ball - not beat him when he has it. When Maurice Fitzgerald dominated the All-Ireland final in 1997 he redefined the extent to which one man could influence a 15-man game - his contribution was so disproportionate it could safely be said that Kerry would have lost the All-Ireland without him. Three years later and another Kerry player was so demonstrably superior to all his peers that, again, it could be said that without him, they would not have won the All-Ireland. They would not even have got there. You could say that Kerry is lucky to have Moynihan or, if you like, he is lucky to have Kerry - probably both. Either way, and whatever about the Kingdom, the biggest winner is the battered old game itself. 
