sport football
{  
    December 20 2007 10:53 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/abbeydorney-27376720.html }
Bord na nOg: The A.G.M. of Bord na nOg will be held in the Complex on Tuesday next December 18th at 9.00 p.m. All are welcome. Abbeydorney Sports Hall Development Association: At a recent meeting of this committee, it was decided to discontinue all plans for building a sports hall in Abbeydorney. It was further decided by the committee that the funds that were collected should now be used to support the development of projcets of a sporting nature that are currently being considered by any group in the community. Therefore anyone interested in availing of this funding should submit a brief outline of the proposed project which should include the details, cost of project and proposed benefit to the community. All submissions to be sent to the secretary Carmel Sheehan Quinn, Crotta. Kilfynn on or before Friday January 11th 2008. McElligott's Bar: The winners of the 41 card drive on Saturday night were Michael and Kathleen Collins,Winners of the poker on Sunday night was Tom Lyons and Wednesday night was Christina O'Mahony. Congratulations to Paul McElligott, Abbeydorney on winning an All Star Award for hurling and football in Boston recently. Retreat: The Pre Christmas Retreat for the women of Abbeydorney and Kilflynn will take place at the Ardfert Retreat Centre on Thursday night December 13th at 8.00 p.m. Complex: Music on Saturday night with John O'Brien and Moss Hannon and on Sunday night with Steve Donegan Commnity Games Quiz: U-14 quiz selection process to pick a team for the u-14 quiz team for Abbeydorney/Kilfynn Community Games will be held on Friday 14th December at 7 o'clock in the Community Parish Hall Abbeydorney., Children must be under 14 before 31st July 2008 Abbeydorney Parish Hall & Community Centre Building Fund Members Lotto Draw. Results 10 / 12 / 2007, Numbers Drawn 4 - 6 - 15 - 22 No Jackpot Winner. Consolation Prizes: E25 Dero Glavin,Abbeydorney, E25 Pamela Loveridge, Abbeydorney, Spot Prizes: Mark O?Connell, Ardfert, Ellen Griffin, Ballyduff. Names for E500 Mini Jackpot: Pamela Loveridge, Abbeydorney, Laura McKenna, Ballinclogher, Dora O?Callaghan, Ballysheen. Next Draw 16th Dec McElligotts Bar - Jackpot E6200. Abbeydorney Defibrillator Unit: The first course in C.P.R. and Defibrillator training was successfully completed on Wednesday 28th November. The next course will commence on the 16th January 2008. If you would like to do the C.P.R. and Defibrillator training please Tel 066 71 35210. Many thanks to everybody who has supported our fundraising draw to date, draw will be held this coming Friday night 14th Dec at Abbeydorney Parish Community Hall at 9.45 pm. It would be appreciated if all tickets, sold and unsold, could be returned before Thursday 13th. Abbeydorney Christmas lights: Many thank you to everyone who helped get the Christmas trees and lights ready. It was particulary difficult this year given the inclement weather conditions which prevailed during the week. A big thank you also to Paul Byrne, Droumcunning, who switched on the lights before the vigil mass on Friday. In order to meet the cost of new lights etc , we are holding a church gate collection on the weekend of 21st/22nd. Your support would be greatly appreciated. Abbeyfeale THE Fealesbridge & Headley?s Bridge Co-op Creamery Ltd held its 38th annual social at the Devon Inn, Templeglantine on last Friday night. The event was well supported as usual, with over 300 people in attendance, and a most enjoyable time was had by all. The organizers would like to sincerely thank all the sponsors who contributed spot prizes, the staff of the Devon Inn for providing a delicious meal, and the large crowd who turned out in such huge numbers and helped in making the evening an outstanding success. May we wish you all a Happy Christmas and a Peaceful New Year. LIGHTS: The recent switching on of the street lights have given the town a festive feel on the run up to Christmas. Installed at a cost of E30,00, the new lighting system runs along the shop fronts at both sides of Convent Street, Main Street and around The Square. The cost of installation includes the fitting of permanent junction boxes etc. and this high cost will not arise again. Limerick County Council are donating approximately E3,000 and the rest will be raised by public donations. EXHIBITION. The exhibition of old photographs of a historical interest by Abbey Heritage continues for another week at the local library. AGM; The AGM of Fr Casey?s GAA Club will take place in the cluhouse on Sunday 16th December at 7.30 pm. SOCCER: Abbeyfeale Utd A are away to Douglas Hall in the second round of the Munster Senior Cup on next Sunday 16th December. Abbeyfeale for Africa Thank you to everyone who who supported our annual cake sale., those who baked scones, cakes, breads, jams, chutneys etc. and those who bought the goods. It was, as usual a great success and all monies collected will go to Fr. Tim, Fr. John and two Missionary Sisters with connections in Abbeyfeale. Death - Sincere sympathy is offered to the family of the late Ita O'Donnell, Killarney Road on her recent death. May she rest in peace. Boys N.S. - The pupils, teachers and their assistants and everyone associated in any way with the wonderful performance of the Nativity Play which the junior and first classes performed on the altar at evening Mass last Saturday must take a bow. Everything was very well done,everyone played their part to perfection, the costumes were very well put together and realistic and the singing excellent . There were plenty of teary eyes in the packed church at the innocence of it all and the reminder it was of the real meaning of Christmas. Well done. National Association for Deaf People - Next visit to Abbeyfeale will be on Friday 14th. For further details contact 061 467494 ABBEYFEALE CHERNOBYL CHILDRENS FUND are holding a draw on December 22. Tickets are on sale locally at E2 each. Lots of prizes to be won. Children are arriving from Chernobyl on December 20. Please support this great cause. Committee members Brenda Barry and Kathleen Collins 087 6253154. La le Brid - 'Welcome Spring' a celebration is planned for the Church of the Assumption on Friday Feb. 1st next with Finbar Wright. The subscription is E30 and tickets which come with a special presentation envelope are selling rapidly. If you want to solve some of your Christmas present dilemmas then you should call to any of the following outlets , Buckleys Devon Road, Mann's Costcutter, Tuohigs Supervalue, Kathleen's Foodstore, Ann Lyons, The Square, Edmond Donoghue's Convent St., and Moss the Farmer's, Killarney Road. You can also order tickets by ringing the Parish Office at 06831133 between 11am and 1pm Monday to Friday. Funds raised go towards the ongoing renovation on the Church. Abbey Heritage - The students on the current Abbey Heritage course are currently displaying the fruits of their labours with an exhibition of photograph' s of old buildings on Main St. and their history. There is just one week left to view this at the Library.This is a very relevant subject in this centenary year of the death of the late Fr. Casey. Wl102fm - The Indoor Market on Sunday was a huge success due in no small way to Dennis Hobson in his role as Santa who distributed largesse from his bottomless bag to the Mammies and Daddies as well as the boys and girls who attended. A big thank you to Paul Ward who supplied the outfit and to John O'Sullivan who helped man the door. There were loads of stalls and everyone agreed that despite the weather it was our best Christmas Market yet. Church News - Mass every morning Monday to Friday at 10am except when there is a Funeral Mass when it then moves to 11am. Mass on Saturday morning is at 11am with confessions following. Canon Neville also says Mass each morning in the Blessed Sacrament Chapel at 8.30am when he is at home. Mass on Saturday evening at 7pm and on Sunday at 9.30am and 12 noon. Mass Intentions for the coming week are Thursday at 10am an Anniversary Mass for the late T.J.O'Connell, New St and on Thursday evening a Mass for the late James O'Grady. Friday evening at 7pm there will be a Months Mind Mass for the late Bridie Leahy, Bogmount. Readers for the coming weekend are Vigil Mass Mairead Daly, 9.30am Do this in Memory team, 12 noon Sean Woulfe. The Giving Tree - Members of the senior Youth Club will this Advent distribute gifts from the Giving Tree which is at the back of the Sanctuary. Parishioners are asked to take a leaf from the tree, buy the suggested present and bring it to the church from which it will be collected by the Club members and their leaders who will then visit the homes of the elderly with a gift. The teenagers will also call to the parishioners who are living in Nursing Homes in the area as well. Toastmasters - West Limerick Toastmasters Club meets at the Desmond Complex on the first and third Wednesday of the month from 8.30 to 10.30pm. Next meeting Wednesday Dec. 19th. Console (Living with Suicide) - If you have experienced a loss through suicide then for information and support contact 061 30679. Christmas Lights - Both the Noonan Family, Tullig and the Hennessey's Knockbrack have made huge efforts to decorate their houses and gardens this Christmas time. Each evening when dusk falls the lights start to twinkle , everything is transformed into a winter wonderland and you are invited to visit. Contributions welcomed for various local charities. Adoration - Adoration continues every evening in the Blessed Sacrament Chapel from 6pm to 9pm. Everyone is welcome to call even if only for a few minutes and celebrate the Lords birthday with him. Community Games - There was general shock and dismay in Abbeyfeale this weekend when the news broke that after a long distingushed membership of Community Games the committee was being disbanded due to lack of a secretary. Margaret Murphy is retiring after years of service, she and her husband Noel were the backbone of the committee but now feel that with their family reared it is time to pass on the baton to the younger generation and no one can be found to take on the challenge. In a week when three people died of cocaine abuse, in a year when a baby was orphaned because his parents attended a wedding where cocaine was part of the wedding feast is it possible that the whole of Abbeyfeale cannot put together a committee to give children a start in life that will stand them in good stead when they have to face into a world where substance abuse is rampant. Poor Fr. Casey must be turning in his grave. One last attempt will be made in the G.A.A. Clubhouse this Thursday night at 8.30pm. Have a Break - This is a home based respite scheme which facilitates Host carers taking chiildren with special needs into their homes for a well earned break. Training and expenses will be provided. Contact Catherine O'Sullivan on 061 501438 for further information. 7 Steps - During the Advent Season you are invited to reflect on the meaning of Christmas through the Sunday readings in the sacristy every Tuesday evening at 7.00pm. Advent Retreat - All are welcome to join Fr. Noel Kirwin, the Eucharist Ministers and Ministers of the Word in a mini retreat on Sunday next from 4.30 pm to 6pm in the Blessed Sacrament Chapel. Ardfert ARDFERT COMMUNITY CENTRE: SING NOEL CONCERT with Ardfert Ladies Gospel Choir will take place on December 16th at 8p.m. Guest Artists on the night will be Ciaran Dalton and Madge Davis. Tickets on sale in Centra, Maguires, Post Office and Community Centre Sundays - Market 11?2p.m. Christmas Market 2nd December 11?4p.m. with Santa in his cave from 11?2pm. Early booking essential for tables in the Christmas Market Mondays - CHILDREN?S DRAMA - Monday nights 7p.m. Tuesdays - SENIOR CITIZENS ? 10a.m.-2p.m. with bus organised for collection and return . ICA ARDFERT/?KILMOYLEY 8.15p.m. JUDO ? 5PM. Wednesdays ? Michelle McGrath Painting Classes 5-7p.m. After Schools and Homework club 3.30?5.30 , pick up from school , Gospel Choir 7.30pm Thursdays ? After Schools and Homework club 3.30?5.30, pick up from school Karate 7?8 and 8?9p.m. Fridays- Comhaltas 4.30-7.30pm After School?s Club, Comhaltas 4.15-7.45 p.m. Youth Club 8p.m. Saturday?s Hall available for Birthday Parties Monday to Friday ? Creche and Pre-School Availability of rooms for Meetings all nights. Indoor Soccer facilities available Ultra Modern Gym facilities Laundry and Iorning Srevices Monday to Friday DIY Service call 087-9209673 Best of Luck to Jerry Wallace and all the Ardfert Hurling Team in the county U21 final from all at Ardfert Community Centre NIGHT CLASSES 2008 Now enrolling for Child Development and Play (Level 3) Suitable fro anyone interested in childcare or for parents/grandparents of small children. Learn about how children learn through play, how to choose suitable games and toys, how to communicate better with small children. Course will be run over 14 weeks, one night per week. Also available Family Learning Course - The Power of Encouragement, and a Personal Development Course -Time for Me, Tae-Kwan-Do Classes, ring Pat Murphy 087-087-9209673 Congratulations to our u21 hurlers on their deserved victory in the county championship Final. Also to the Ardfert club on their crowning as Munster club of the Year. Well done all. CHRISTMAS CAROL SINGING - A big thankyou to all the children and adults who braved the wind and rain on Saturday, we raised just over E650 AWARDS NIGHT Friday 14th Dec 7pm to 10pm There will be awards, food and a disco and every athlete in the club is welcome to attend.There will be awards for all National,Munster and County medal winners and also some special category awards. All athletes must be accompanied by an adult. The hamper raffle will also take place. TRAINING TIMES - Monday cars leaving the medical centre at 6.30 for Castleisland.It is compulsory for all athletes travelling to Scotland to attend this session but others may also do so u12+ (e3). Thursday 7.45-9pm in Banna all weather pitch u12+ .[e3] will continue until 20th Dec. Saturday 10-11am in Sandy Lane Banna all ages.[e3]. Only U12+ distance group will continue until 22nd Dec. Check the website for news, diary and photos from events www.stbrendansac.com Shane Delaney 085-7597305. Laura O'Sullivan 087-4184641 FOOTBALL: History was made in the Vienna Woods Hotel in Cork last Friday night when our Football Club was awarded Munster Club of the Year in recognition of our back to back All Ireland titles. M.C. on the night, Marty Morrissey, in his introduction was lavish in his praise of our fairy tale success with 2 All Ireland titles and promotion from Division 5 to Division 1 of the County League in successive years. Chairman, Stan McCarthy, received the Waterford Crystal Vase from Munster Vice Chairman and fellow Kerryman Sean Walsh. Congratulations also to Darragh O'Se who received footballer of the year on the night. COMMUNITY GAMES: Girls U13 indoor soccer training continues this Thursday night December 13th in Kilmoyley community centre from 7.00 - 8.00pm. Any girl interested in playing is very welcome. Please bring 2 euros to cover the cost of the hall. Enquiries to 7234629/086 3981418, Mike & Kathleen Fitzgerald. ARDFERT YOUTH CLUB - Disco this Friday. Bus leaving the fountain at 8.30. please be in your seat by 8.20. Cost E10. People going on the bus must return on the bus. Happy Christmas to all and have a safe and happy holiday. ST. BRENDAN?S HURLING CLUB - AGM: The AGM of St. Brendan?s Hurling Club took place last Friday 7th Dec. in Ardfert National School. Chairman Sean Ryan, Secretary Jeremiah Clifford, Treasurer Kieran Dwyer and Juvenile Secretary Gerard Hannafin read their reports and reflected on the year gone by and their hopes for the future of the Club in 2008. There were no major changes in personnel, but a reshuffle of the top table. Secretary Jeremiah Clifford is to take on the job of Vice-Chairman from Gerard Hannafin, while Gerard will take on the onerous task of Senior Club Secretary. Our thanks to both for their time and energy in their respective positions up to now. Geraldine Delaney is a welcome addition to the job of Juvenile Secretary and we welcome her to our team. The full list of officers reads as follows: President Gerry O?Connor, Chairman Sean Ryan, Secretary Gerard Hannafin, Treasurer Kieran Dwyer, Assistant Treasurer Justin Horgan, PRO Josephine O?Riordan, Bord na nOg Chairman Gerard Hussey, Secretary Geraldine Delaney, Co. Board Delegate Patrick O?Riordan, Scór Officer Tom Kelly. Our thanks to Ardfert School Principal Betty Stack and caretaker Anto O?Halloran for their help during the year. We look forward to the coming year and we commit ourselves to work hard for the benefit of our players and members. We also intend to have a night for juvenile registrations in January. U-21 FINAL. The celebrations continued for the victorious U-21 panel and on Sunday night last a Man of the Match award was made to the outstanding Brian Moloney (East Commons). The award was presented by Fergal Kirby from the Brogue Inn Tralee, on behalf of the Kirby family, who have stepped in to become our main team sponsors. Brian?s team mates were present as well as Club Officers and well wishers to see him receive his well deserved award. We wish Brian continued success in the future, we welcome Bill Kirby on board and we are delighted that he and his family wish to be associated with us for the coming years and we hope that we can repay his faith in us. LOTTO; Last week?s draw took place in The Abbey Tavern with a Jackpot of E2200. The numbers drawn were 3, 15, 17, and 21. There was no Jackpot winner and the Consolation prizes went to: Kathleen McGrath Banna, Mary O?Brien Knockmoyle Tralee, Conagh Fitzgerald Abbey View Ardfert, John F.O?Mahony, St. Brendan?s Tce, Patrick Creagh, Ballymac Bar Tralee. A turkey voucher was also won by Johnny Jeffers, North Commons. This week?s Lotto draw takes place in McElligott?s with a Jackpot of E2275. Once again many thanks to all who buy and sell Lotto tickets as it is both Hurling and Football Clubs main funding for the year. The last draw of 2007 takes place in Kate Browne?s on Dec. 18th. CONGRATULATIONS to Ardfert Football Club on their Munster Club of the Year Award. SYMPATHY We extend the sympathy of our Officers, players and members to the families of the late Mrs. Joe Hartnett, St. Brendan?s Park, Tralee, and Ted Godley Snipefield, who died recently. SECOND HAND BOOKS; A presentation of a digital camera was made recently to Kerry Parents & Friends Association Listowel Branch. The camera was bought from the proceeds of the sale of donated second hand books at the Indoor Market every Sunday in Ardfert Community Centre. Sincere thanks to all who donate the good condition books and to all who support the charity and buy the books. An Ríocht A.C. Laura Crowe got her indoor season off to a great start when she won the 800m at the Irish 3rd level college c/ships in Nenagh on Sunday last. Ciaran Mc Cabe recorded a time of 52.95 in the 400m, which is very encouraging so early in the season. Well done to Susanne O Sullivan who was chosen on a team of three through the Irish Runner magazine to represent them in an endurance event in Cyprus recently. Well done also to Peter Murphy who competed in the Memphis marathon. There was no winner of our lottery in Currow on Friday last. The numbers drawn were 3, 5, 14, and 15. Breda Somers Currow, Tom Prendiville Limerick Rd., Aine Walsh Cordal and Mary Sullivan Camp each won E100. Charlie Moriarty Currow won the hamper. Next months lotto for a jackpot of E2300 will be held in Brennans Bar. The Goal Mile will again be held at the track on Christmas Day from 11.30 to12.30. You can run jog or walk the four laps of the track to help a very worthwhile charity. Asdee A widely known Asdee West man who is renowned for his knowledge of local history and folklore has now ventured into the world of writing having just completed his very first book. Martin Mulvihill?s very first book entitled Stepping Matches and other Stories depicts life in North Kerry long ago and gives people a great insight on the way rural people lived their lives before modernisation hit the country in the 1970?s. Martin is the ideal man to tell the story as he has lived through it all and no doubt will have his own unique way of relating the whole story. News of the launch of the new book has aroused a huge amount of local interest and people can?t wait to get their hands on it. That is not surprising as Martin is known all over the county as a great historian and philosopher and is also a scribe of considerable note. Martin was one of the main driving forces behind the Shannonside Annuals of the late 1950?s and early 60?s which were so hugely successful and popular with people of the area. A man with a huge wealth of knowledge on local history Martin is frequently called upon by people tracing events of the past in the area. He has been involved in many organisations in the parish down through the years and has been engaged in many other projects on a voluntary basis. He has also done a lot to assist charitable organisations hosting a big concert every year to assist in the construction of a Catholic Church in North East Russia. Martin also made a big name for himself in the world of drama and was involved in the Asdee Drama Group for many years with whom he enjoyed much success. A prolific story teller Martin can vividly recall events of his very early childhood years and has retained stories told to him by the great characters of the area. This ability has proved to be enormously beneficial in his venture into writing his own book and ensures that his facts are very accurate. He has found compiling the book a very enjoyable experience and he is hoping that people in the area with find it an interesting book to read. For Martin it was a journey into uncharted waters but he is very happy with the journalistic crusade which has come to a very successful conclusion. Martin always had a desire to get his knowledge and thoughts on local history into print and he had been working on this project over the past couple of years. He decided to embrace the world of Information Technology to assist his venture and participated in a beginners computer course at the local community centre. After mastering the world of word processing he began typing work on his book from his home computer. The story lines gelled together very satisfactorily and before long he knew his ambition of writing a book would come to fruition. Together with some friends of his associated with the print industry his book got a clean bill of health and it is now about to hit the local bookshelves in good time for Christmas. The book runs to 200 pages and delves into great stories and legends of the area spanning back from the early part of the century to the time when modernisation began to move into the country. Martin has found his research in writing the book an enlightening experience. People will have an opportunity to see for themselves Martin?s work when he launches his new book at St John?s Heritage Centre in Listowel on Sunday night December 16th at 5pm. The book will be launched by our very own Fr Pat Moore of Littor so be expecting plenty of fun and merriment. A big crowd is expected to turn out for the launch as Martin is known far and wide and people are confident that his book will be well worth reading. I was talking to a few people who had the privilege of having a sneak preview of the book during the week and they tell me it is a fascinating read which will give locals plenty of cheer in the run up to Christmas. Everyone joins in wishing Martin the very best of luck with him new book no doubt it will become a bestseller in the area. No doubt many copies will be winging their way to all corners of the globe in the run up to Christmas. CHRISTMAS: With Christmas on our doorsteps everyone is getting into the festive theme and the tills are ringing much faster in shops in our local towns and villages. Now the lead up to the festive season is swamped with commercialism as business people avail of the Christmas spirit to ease money out of our purses and pockets. It is a time when many people go into debt to buy expensive presents and they are left with daunting bills as the New year dawns. Now children receive very expensive presents at Christmas making heavy demands on parents. Back in the 60?s the man that everyone wanted to see around Christmas was the local postman as he would deliver those registered letters with much needed money from relatives overseas. A lot of parcels were also delivered at that time with people sending home toys and sweets to the young children which was a great treat for them. There was huge excitement if one of the family were coming home for Christmas and they would be treated like kings while they were around. It was an extremely busy time for postmen who at that time delivered their mail on bicycle. People always showed their appreciation of the job he done at Christmas when he would be given a few bob in every house and he would also be offered a drink. In those days children did not get to sample lemonade very often and when it was in the house around Christmas it was like manna from heaved for children. Most people attended midnight Mass on Christmas Eve and the usual modes of transport were a pony and trap, bicycle, shanks mare, or for the very fortunate a motor car which was a are spectacle in that era. Many enterprising women reared their own turkeys, ducks and geese and made a few extra pounds at Christmas selling them to the neighbours or at the market. These fowl were free range in every sense of the word and tasted delicious when roasted in the black Stanley range. It was also customary in those days for families to post turkeys to their relatives in the U. K. Thje turkeys were sent in a special cloth bay with their legs protruding at the bottom of the bag. We must have had some real cold winters at that time as no one ever complained that their turkeys had gone off after the week it took them to be delivered by sea mail. It was also very common to play 41 drives for live turkeys at that particular time. The game was flourishing in the area at that time and sadly now it is almost instinct. When The store Bar was run by the late Michael Walsh the place was chopper block every Wednesday night as gamblers came in from far and wide to play for Christmas Turkeys. The game was also very big over the road at the Old Jesse James Tavern where the late Tommy Enright kept the game going every nigh all year long. When Christmas was over turkeys were taken off the menu and they went on to play for pounds of butter, packets of tea and chickens. I remember back in the 1970?s Brendan Gleeson and myself won a live turkey at a 41 Drive at Danny O Carroll?s Bar in Ballylongford. I took him home in the boot of the car and he created a lot of excitement when I took him into the kitchen. When he was fully prepared on Christmas day the stillers weighing scales were taken out, he weighed a full 29lbs. The bird only barely managed to fit into the oven and turkey was almost coming out of the families ears by the time he was fully eaten. There was always great excitement on St. Stephen?s Day as many children in the area headed out hunting the Wren. It was a great opportunity to make a bit of pocket money and while donations were small at that particular time the children were delighted when the money was counted and shared out between everyone. There were some great adult Wrenboy Groups at that time and they went out to finance a big Wren Dance. This would be held in a local house where plenty of drink would be drafted in and the enamel buckets would be out to take the plentiful supply of stout to everyone that wanted it. The ladies of the area would bring along their own cakes and bread and ensure that everyone got plenty to eat. There would be plenty of traditional musicians present and the traditional dancing would go on in some cases until the following morning if the booze would last. It was a night when many young romances ignited and the favourite place for courting was the hay sheds. Now it is almost Christmas all year round with children being pampered with all types of gifs and toys. Sadly now the religious side of Christmas is often being overlooked with commercialism showing its ugly head much too often. PRESENTATION NIGHT: Maybe it was not the best kept secret after all as to who the local Bord Na Nog Club was to invite for their presentation function which will take place at the local Community Centre Asdee on this Friday night, so im sure that there will be a warm Asdee welcome when the Player of the Year and current Kerry All Star Mark O Shea will appear on stage which will be surely the highlight of the evening. The All Star footballer will make the presentation of medals to members of the successful Under 14 team who recently won the North Kerry Division 2 title, the Under 12 team who were pipped by a late goal in the North Kerry Division 2 decider will be presented with their runners up medals while the local Asdee National School ,( 3 Teacher) who were victorious in the North Kerry Final of Cumann Na mBunscoil will also receive their medals. Results of the Fundraising Draw which was ongoing for the past number of weeks will be announced on the night. Other invited guests will include Officers of Coiste Na nO Ciarrai Thuaidh. There will be plenty food and refreshments served, Pr0ceedings will be getting underway at 7pm and a most enjoyable night is assured. SCOR: Despite loosing out the Asdee Question Time Team of Orlaith O Carroll, Thomas Rea and Padraig Buckley put in a marvellous performance to secure a very creditable second place, just loosing out for qualifiction for the Munster Semi Finals when they competed at the Coiste Scor No nOg County Finals held at the Gleneagle Hotel Killarney on Sunday night last.It was a marvelous achievement to get this far in the competition so well done to everybody concerned. LOTTO WINNERS: Asdee Rovers Jackpot results - Sunday Dec 2nd No Winner. Numbers 17,21,23,24. Lucky Dip Winners 50 Kathleen Barrett Dirra 25 Brian Griffin C/o Ted Griffin Tullamore 25 Joe Edgeworth Littor Road. Sunday Dec 9th No Winner. Numbers 5,6,14,19 50 Pat Lacey Asdee East 25 Stephen & Emma Lynch Ballybunnion 25 Helen & Darren Russell Asdee West. The club are currently selling 6 month and 12 month lotto memberships. Please contact any local member if you wish to join up. Annascaul CAROL SERVICE: A Christmas Carol service will take place at the Church of the Sacred Heart on Wednesday 12th following mss at 7.15pm. Members from the local choirs will be in attendance and, as the proceeds from the service will got to the Camphill Community, Dingle, it is expected that there will be a good turnout of parishoners at the event. DEATHS: The deaths took place last week of Marguerite Ashe, Annascaul Post Office, and of Margaret Bowler, Kielduff. BOOK CLUB: There is an avid book club flourishing in Annascaul which is seeking out new members. Enquiries to Morna hilton on 9157149. WHIST: Results from Wednesday 5th. Ladies: 1st Nora Devine 2nd Caitlín Ní Shé. Intervals: Betty Johnson and Joan Forde. Gents: 1st Seamus O' Donnell 2nd Frances Falvey. Intervals: Pat Rohan and Sandra Hoffman. Mystery: Eileen Galvin and Patrick Walsh. Raffle: Bríd Ní Cheallacháin, Betty Johnson, Frances Falvey and Seamus O' Donnell. Tea break contributions during the festive season would be gleefully accepted and wolfed down. SPEED LIMIT: It is noted that the speed limit of 50kph on the Dingle road from Rathduff Cross to Gortbreagogue was still in force, at the time of going to press, despite the expiry of the Local Government regulation on the 8th.Any comments? G.A.A: It is with regret that Annascaul are confined to Division 2 for 2008 following the one point defeat by Castleisland. This defeat should not however detract from teh team's overall year's performance and it's determination to attain All Ireland glory in the Intermediate stakes. Athea CHOIR: Choir practice continues each Monday night at 8pm in preparation for Christmas. It was great to hear the choir in full voice last Saturday night at the evening vigil mass. Once again an appeal is being made for more members to join the choir ? we are blessed with good voices and have a great musical history in Athea it?s a pity if more singers don?t come along. It makes a great difference to the ceremonies and mass. VINCENT de Paul: Athea Vincent de Paul thank sincerely everyone who gave to their church-gate collection at the weekend it was much appreciated. Thanks is extended to all those who stood at the collection points on such a blustery night. The Vincent de Paul / Going Strong Xmas party takes place on this Wednesday 12th with mass at 12.30 in the Church followed by Xmas dinner after at Top of the Town. No doubt this should be a great day as always and well done to the organisers and all those who give of their time. XMAS SOCIAL: The West Limerick Set-dancing club will have their Xmas Social on Sat next 15th Dec at Fr Casey?s Club ? Abbeyfeale. Music by Anne and Tim Joe, tickets from Nora on 069-76323. LUCKY NUMBERS: Athea Community Council held their Lucky Numbers draw on Saturday night last at J.Ps. The jackpot on offer was E8,800. The numbers drawn were ? 1 ? 11- 16 ? 24. No outright winner on the night- lucky dips went to: E50 ? Kathleen Moore ? Hillside Drive E30 ? Micky Muhrihill ? E20 x 4 ? Séan Fitzgerald ? Coole West; Daphne Gleeson ? Upper Athea; Gina and Hannah ? Cois Gale Athea, Noelle Tedford ? Hillside Drive. SELLERS PRIZE ? Breda O?Keeffe and Dan Griffin. Next weeks jackpot is E8,900. LADIES FOOTBALL: Athea Ladies Football Club are having their presentation night on this Sat night Dec 15th at the Top of the Town. The U-12s will be presented with their medals first at 8-30pm, followed by the Senior?s presentation at 11pm. The Seniors will be receiving their medals for the Senior Co. Championship 7 ? in ? a row as well as medals for the Pat Lawlor Kerry Senior league. Music will be with Oliver and Tony and food will be served on the night. As always a great night is anticipated and everyone is welcome. There will also be spot-prizes galore on the night. So please support the ladies on the night. READERS: Readers at masses this weekend Sat 7.30pm Patsy Hayes Sun 11.00am Volunteer required. STREET LIGHTING: Athea Community Council thank sincerely all who gave so genersouly to the recent Church-gate collection for the street-lighting. The total collected was E1,090. The lights are now switched on and really give Xmas feeling and atmosphere to the street. CREDIT UNION: The A.G.M. of Athea Credit Union was held on Friday night last and a full house was in attendance. It was the 39th A.G.M. Canon Kelly opened the meeting with a prayer. Eibhlis Geoghegan read the minutes of the last A.G.M. Timmy Woulfe welcomed Louise Carey the new auditor, and also thanked the counter-staff and management for their great expertise at all times. It was stated that it was great to see the Credit Union operating so well in a village of decline. John Joe Barrett- treasurer stated that once again it had been a very successful year and proposed a 2% dividend again this year. The Credit Union continues to support local clubs, events etc and this is very welcome. The auditor was very impressed with the high stand and professionalism of Athea Credit Union Patsy O?Connor reported fo rthe Credit Committee and stated that the loans were the life blood of the Credit Union and that the 8.5% interest had no hidden extras and that the interest on loans would decrease with each payment unlike other institutions. Liz O?Sullivan read the report for the supervisory Committee and was re-elected on the Committee as was Claire Ryan and Kitty Barrett on the Supplementary Committee and Patie O?Sullivan on the board. Chapter delegates were Pat Brosnan, John Moran, Doanl Woulfe and Tommy Hogan who were thanked for travelling to outside meetings. Canon Kelly closed the meeting with a further prayer, and Mary Anne Stack kindly gave everyone a present and box of chocolates as they left. All I can say well done, to the Athea Credit Union and it?s staff for a very successful business it?s indeed a great asset to Athea and it?s surrounds. Well done. ESTUARY ATHLETICS: Estuary Athletics will be holding a party at The Gables on this Wednesday 12th December from 7 ? 9pm. Anyone whose child is registered with the Club is welcome to come along. Ballybunion Ballybunion credit union draw for the first week in December are first prize bottle of whiskey, second prize 2 bottles of wine. Winners displayed in office. Dont forget that every transaction done this week will be in for a draw for a hamper from Supervalu or 2nd prize of 2 bottles of wine. Draw takes place every friday at close of business. Home computer initiative loans is extended until after christmas. ask in the office for details. Art by local artists for sale in the office. ELDERLY people living in isolation and with little defence in the event of a burglarly have a new friend in Ballybunion in the shape of the Community Alert system. A clever piece of technology that relies upon the proximity of neighbours, the Community Alert systems are now being installed by Matt Lynch in the North Kerry town. Once installed in a home, the homeowner need only press a button to raise an alarm among the community. The alarm sends a phone signal around to a number of pre-programmed numbers - those of neighbours? homes. ?If it?s not immediately picked up at the first number, the alarm automatically rings the second number and so on,? Mr Lynch said.The Community Alert system takes advantage of community relations to ensure that all members of an area are safe in the knowledge their friends will be there for them in an emergency.? For further details contact Mr Lynch on 068 27747 or ring Ballybunion Garda Station. Ballyduff LOTTO RESULTS: The results of the Ballyduff GAA Club?s weekly Lotto Draw for Monday December 3rd are as follows; The numbers drawn were 2, 5, 7 & 10. There was no winner of the E1,300 jackpot and the following won E50 each; Aaron Sheehan, Knopogue. Tadhg Brosnan, Ahabeg, Lixnaw. Pat Burke, Clahane. TV DRAW: Richard Laide, Crotta. Eileen Dee, Derryra. Mike Harty, Ballinglanna, Causeway. CARD DRIVES: The results of the recent ?41? Card Drives are as follows: MC HALES STRETFORD END, CAUSEWAY. Monday December 3rd. 1st. Pádraig Egan & William Goggin. 2nd. Jimmy Bowler & John White. 3rd. Mary & Owen Horgan. PRIZEWINNERS - Pat Moriarty, Gabriel Browne, Kathy Neilan, Seán Goggin and Liam Diggins. HOPPER INN, COAST ROAD - Tuesday December 4th. 1st. Terry McDaid & Julie Sheehy. 2nd. Mary Egan & Paddy Hussey. 3rd. James Hussey & William Goggin. TABLE PRIZES: David O?Carroll & Ronan Barron. Seamus McEnery & Mike Harty. CLUB OF THE YEAR? - Congratulations to Ballyduff Coiste na nÓg who were awarded the ?Club of the Year? at the Annual Convention of Coiste na nÓg Chiarraí on Thursday of last week. J P Hussey accepted the award on behalf of the Ballyduff Club from Chairman Johnny Brosnan. Well done to all concerned with this award. SENIOR FOOTBALL: The Ballyduff senior football team played Duagh in the County Senior Football League Division 4 at Ballyduff on Sunday last. This was a very important game for the home side as they were bottom of the table along with Ballydonoghue and Cordal so a victory was vital to stay in this division fro 2008. Ballyduff had the advantage of the wind in the first half and had an early point from Mikey Boyle. Maurice O?Connor added a point from a free but Ballyduff fired nine wides in total in this half while Duagh scored two goals to lead 2 ? 0 to 0 ? 2 at half time. Ballyduff had the better of the second half exchanges but could not get the vital scores to salvage at least a draw which would have earned them a life-line for survival in Division 4. Alas it was not to be and Duagh won on a score-line of 2 ? 2 to 0 ? 5. During the year the County Board awarded games to both Valentia and Glenbeigh/Glencar when Ballyduff had County Hurling commitments and these games proved vital in the end. Ballyduff lined out as follows on Sunday; Tom Enright; Patrick Moran, Rónan O?Connor, Giles O?Grady; John Paul Leahy, Bobby O?Sullivan, Paud Costello (0 ? 1); Maurice O?Connor (0 ? 2), Pádraig O?Grady; Liam Boyle, John Hussey, Mikey Bowler; Mikey Boyle (0 ? 2), Gary O?Brien, Thomas O?Rourke. Subs; Mark Houlihan for G O?Grady; P J O?Grady for J Hussey; Tim Segal for P O?Grady. CAROL SERVICE: Pupils from Ballyduff Central National School will sing at the 7.30pm Mass at SS Peter?s & Paul?s Church Ballyduff on this Saturday December 15th. Please give generously to the Santas collecting outside afterwards. All monies collected goes towards school funds. CHRISTMAS PARTY: The Ballyduff Senior Citizens Christmas Party will be held in the Ballyroe Heights Hotel on this Sunday December 16th. Invitations are now being distributed and a bus will leave The Square, Ballyduff after 11.30am Mass. CRAFT & FOOD FAIR: The Seanchaí Centre Listowel will hold a Christmas Craft & Food Fair on Sunday December 16th from 11.00am. Items for sale will include Knitwear, toys, cards, ceramics, jewellery, candles, homebaking and savoury delights. UNDER 14 HURLING: In what can only be described as very unseasonal weather conditions the North Kerry Hurling Board Coiste na nÓg in their wisdom fixed the Under 14 Hurling Final for Ballyheigue on Sunday four months after the original date which was in August. The young hurlers of Ballyduff and Ballyheigue served up a good contest under the circumstances and must be complimented on turning out in such conditions. After a good contest the home side were victors on the day and received the Michael Hennessy Memorial Trophy afterwards. Ballyduff lined out as follows: Nicholas Burke; Kieran O?Grady, Pádraig Boyle, Johnny O?Regan; Padarig Slattery, Damien Lynch, Kevin Bowler; Evan Doyle, Pat Joe Connolly; David Goulding, Kevin Lynch, Kieran Griffin; John Dowling, Liam O?Brien, Jonathan Ross. Subs: John Hussey Daniel O?Carroll, Darren O?Rourke. FIXTURES: Saturday December 15th N K U16 Football Championship Final Ballyduff V Tarbert at Moyvane 2.30pm Sunday December 16th N K Senior Football C?ship Replay - Ballyduff V Beale at Ballylongford 12.45pm (E.T) RATTOO ROVERS F.C.: There were no games for the 'A' or 'B' teams again this week due to GAA commitments and weather conditions respectively. The first of five monthly fund raising draws was held in Browne's Bar on Saturday 24th November. The results are as follows : 1st - EUR400 - John Dee, Ardoughter, Ballyduff 2nd - EUR100 - Richard O'Shea, Ballingown, Tralee 3rd - EUR75 - P.J. Walsh, Ballincrossig, Causeway 4th - EUR50 - Xavier Godley, The Cashen, Ballyduff Bonus Draw for Fully Paid up Members - EUR50 each 1 Martin Whelan, Sleaveen, Ballyduff 2 John Paul Leahy, Sleaveen, Ballyduff 3 Siobhan O'Mahony, The Meadowlands Hotel, Tralee 4 Helen Foran, Listowel Rd., Tralee 5 Kay Daly, Lacca, Ballyduff 6 Tony O'Carroll, Clashmealcon, Causeway. Ballymacelligott Ballymacelligott Handball Club wishes to express its sympathy to the family of John Brosnan [Scart] who passed away last weekend. John was an avid sports man and a walking encyclopedia of GAA matters. Two of our local handball coaches-Brendan O Connor and Tom Daly soldiered with John on the football fields over many years; ?one of the best readers of a game on or off the pitch? was a regular comment on his football ability. He was very generous towards Ballymacelligott Handball Club-many thanks John for all your support and the wit and banter you brought to many a lively discussion. In the Munster Primary Schools Team Competition held in Clare last Sunday; Anna Prendeville and Patrick O Connor were joined by Sean O Gairbhia, Brian O Beaglaoich, Caoimhin O Beaglaoich, Breandan and Tadgh De Bruin to form the A Team. In a round robin system, Cork beat Kerry 90-56 and Clare beat Kerry 90-37. Clare took first place, with Cork and Kerry taking second and third places respectively. Tralee Sports Complex hosts the 2008 Ballyroe Heights 40x20 Singles and Doubles Co Championships next weekend. Saturday sees the Singles Competitions get underway; 11am start for U10 and U11; U12/U13 at 12 30pm with the remaining age groups at 2pm. Sundays action kicks off at 12 Noon for all age groups. Entry forms for the Liscarroll U13 and U15 Handball Tournament are available at the Club Rooms. Training for beginners resume as normal this Tuesday December 4th @ 7pm. A more detailed rundown of games/events during the week are available, in the Sports Section of The Kerryman.It has the full results of all games during the week, and the details of any forthcoming Fixtures/Events. SOCIAL EVENING A night of ceol agus craic will be held in St. Brendan?s Community Centre, Ballymacelligott on Friday 21st December from 9 o?clock to 12 o?clock. Music will be provided on the night by The Treshing Mill Boys. Tea and home baking will be served. A great way to get in the Christmas spirit. Ballydonoghue/ Lisselton CLUB LOTTO: Last week's Club Lotto Draw took place in The Thatch. The numbers drawn were 3,8,14 and 19. There was no winner. The winners of the lucky dips were Darragh Sheehy Lisselton, Amanda O'Connor Lyre, Nora Clifford c/o John Joy, Mary Tully Lisselton and Christy Enright Dromerin. The winners of the three free draws were Tom Fitzgerald Ballydonoghue, Mrs Ellen Neville Inch and Pat Griffin Coolkeragh. This weeks draw, for a jackpot of 1,700 euro will take place in Tomaisin's on Friday night. Next weeks draw is the Christmas draw with lots of extra prizes on offer. ANNUAL CONVENTION: of Ballydonoghue G.A.A. Club will take place in the Clubrooms on Friday 4th January at 7 p.m. The closing date for receipt of nominations is Sunday 30th December. Nominations must be submitted to the Club Secretary in writing. Nominations are sought for the following officer positions: Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary, Assistant Secretary, P.R.O., Treasurer (2), Auditor, Scor Officer, Development Officer, Safety Officer, Co. Board Delegate, Juvenile Chairman, Juvenile Secretary. CLUB MEETING: Will be held Tuesday 18th Dec at the clubrooms Coolard at 8:30p.m. RESULTS: Credit Union County League Div 4 Rd 11. In what was a must win game in the final round of the county league we held on by the narrowest of margins thanks to a great individual effort from substitute Ger Gorman, with the sides level and only minutes remaining. A goal by Barry Shanahan from a great Eoin O'Mahony through ball in the first few minutes gave us the start we needed and we held that advantage up to half time. After Padraig Bunyan (2pts) and Eoin O'Sullivan (1pt) cancelled out Brosna's three points. Bally/D (1-3) Brosna (0-3). In the first ten minutes of the second half both sides exchanged two points apiece with our points coming from P.Bunyan and Eoin O'Mahony. Before Brosna seemed to get a hold of the game and only good defensive work by John O'Mahony and goalkeeper Keith Hughes kept our goals intact. But Brosna did manage to score three points (2f) before G.Gorman lifted the siege with a great solo run and while being harried at very step kicked over the winning point to maintain our Div 4 status for the coming year. Final score Ballydonoghue (1-6) Brosna (0-8). FIXTURES: N.K. Minor C'ship Div 1 semi-final Ballydonoghue play Knock/Brosna Sunday 16th Dec in Ballylongford at 1:00p.m. As a curtain raiser to the N.K.Senior C'ship semi-final Castleisland Desmonds v Tarbert at 2:30p.m. PARISH MAGAZINE LAUNCH: The Ballydonoghue Parish Magazine was officialy launched by Joanna Keane O'Flynn, at Tomaisin's on Friday night last, December 7th. The music was provided by, Katie McNamara, John Nolan, Gerard O'Connor, John Dowling and T.P.McNamara. The committee would like to express their gratitude to the musicians who made it a night to remember, to all who attended the launch and to Tom and Geraldine, and Ger at Tomaisin's for the catering. DEATH: Sympathy is extended to Noel O'Hara and his daughter, Caroline, Meevoo, on the death of Mrs.Duffy(nee Bunyan). Internment took place to St.John's Cemetery, Ballybunion, after Mass in St.Teresa's Church, Ballydonoghue, on Monday last. Ballyheigue SENIOR CITIZEN Party: The senior citizens party will be held on Sunday 16 December at Kirbys Lounge. We would like if neighbours let senior citizens know about the party and to arrange transport for them on the day. Dinner 2pm. DEATH: The death took place during the week of John Joe Lynch, Sandhill Road. He is survived by his son and relatives. Burial on Monday in the Holy Family Cemetery Ballyheigue. GAA: The Ballyheigue Under 14 hurlers defeated Ballyduff in the North Kerry championship final at Ballyheigue on Sunday. Ballyduff played with a gale force wind in the first half and led at the break by 0-5 to 1-0. Ballyheigue had the aid of the elements in the second half and notched up a few early scores to go into the lead which they held to the final whistle. Full time scor Ballyheigue 2-9 Ballyduff 1-7. Fair play to both team who played a very sporting game under terrible weather conditions. The Michael Hennessy Memorial Shield was presented by Joe Walsh Chairman of Coiste na Nog to Cian O Sullivan the Ballyheigue Captain team and scorers Christopher O?Mahony, Joe Lawlor, Cian O Sullivan (capt), Brendan Dunne, Mikey O Halloran, Shane Dunne 0-4, Jonathan Regan, Garry Galway 1-4, Kevin Casey, Padraig Behan, Shane Casey, Declan Behan, Paudie Carroll 1-0, Tomas Casey, Philip Lucid 1-0. Subs Shane Corridan, Adrian Flahive. LOTTO: The following numbers were drawn at last Saturday nights GAA lotto 4.7.9.14. The jackpot of E1150 was not won. Next weeks jackpot will be E1200. The two E50 winners were Rene O Carroll The Village. Laura and Gillian Kerry. The E25 winner David and Gesinta O Grady Marrian Park. BALLYHEIGUE TWINNING Association: The AGM of the association will be held this Wednesday evening 12 December at 8.30pm in the Community Centre. Please come along if you would like something with a little European flavour. All welcome. JERSEYS: The Ballyheigue GAA Jerseys are now available for sale at Henneberys Sports shop Tralee. CHRISTMAS Flower Creations by Mary Coughlan, will do a demonstration on Thursdsay, December 13 from 7.30pm-9.30pm at the Family Resource Centre. Everyone welcome and all arrangements will be raffled on the night. Coursing Club lotto results for Dec 9th Numbers Drawn: 4, 7, 10, 21 No Jackpot Winner E50 Liam Reidy c/o Flahives E50 Betty O Connor c/o Sean Foran E25 Geraldine Kenny C/o PJ Godley Next weeks jackpot is E 5000. Draw will be held in Kirbys on Sunday night . If the jackpot is not won, there will be 5 E100 draws and 10 E50 draws Camp AGM : The Annual General Meeting of Camp Community Council will be held in the Old School, Camp on Tuesday, 18th December at 8.30 p.m. Everybody is welcome to attend. BRUSSELS: The West Kerry Action Group attended meetings with Munster MEP's Brian Crowley, Colm Bourke and Kathy Sinnott in the European Parliament in Brussels on Wednesday last. Among the issues raised by the group was the lack of Broadband Telecommunications, and Rural Planning. KDYS: On Saturday last young people from Camp, Castlegregory, Blennerville and Cloghane Youth Clubs attended KDYS Junior Committee training in The Old School, Camp. The young people together with young people from Gaeltacht Corca Dhuibhne a part of Forum na n-Og, who were established to be the voice of young people in Corca Dhuibhne. Jayne Mullally, a member of the Forum who was recently elected to Dail na n-Og will represent the groups views and opinions in Dail na n-Og in 2008. IFA: Camp IFA held their Annual General Meeting on Tuesday last in the Old School, Camp. All officers were returned for the coming year. GAA: What a game, What a team, Annascaul supporters were thrilled to see their heroes claim a wonderful victory over Mallow in the Munster Intermediate final in Fitzgerald's stadium in Killarney on Sunday week last. Annascaul Captain Tommy Farrell accepting the Munster Cup, in true sportsmanship paid tribute to rivals Mallow who had come so far in the championship. Tommy acknowledgedged the commitment of many people who helped the team on their way, in particular he thanked Manager Dan Sheehy, Patirck O Driscoll, Sean Foley and John Doyle Trainers and mentors for their commitment and support of the team. The Annasacaul supporters came in for special mention, " they travelled to Tipperary and today, they are here in Fitzgerald's stadium again in even larger numbers" Tommy said. The Munster Cup now travels west into the Dingle Peninsula, the first time for Annascaul and now the team prepare to contest two more finals and with the stamina and energy shown on the field on Sunday, Annascaul will be there and there strong, so keep up the support !!! They deserve it. Congratulations to all. CD LAUNCH: Crowds welled into the South Pole Inn, Annascaul on Friday night for the launch of Noirin Finn and Brid McGovern's CD entitled "In The Mood" By The Cailini. The wonderfully talented West Kerry women who play in almost every village locally at weekends and are no strangers to Camp too, have a wonderful collection and mix of songs and music on this magical CD. Noirin and her husband and family live in Lougher, Annascaul. She was reared on traditional music being a daughter of Dan Ashe, Aughills whose entire family are renowned and known all over the country in the traditional music scene. Bird's family are also accomplished musicians. " In The Mood" is a lovely Christmas Gift for anyone at home or abroad. It can be purchased in shops locally or in any good music shop. Congratulations and good luck Noirin and Brid. Go n-eiri libh. MODEL: Congratulation to Aoife Healy, Meenascorthy, Camp who reached the semi finals in Modelling Agency for Ireland recently in Dundrum, Dublin. IRISH DANCING: Ciara O Sullivan, Camp has won the Munster Irish Dancing Championship for the 5th time in a row. Ciara now goes forward to contest the world Championship. Congratulations and good luck Ciara. Castlegregory Castlegregory GAA: W Kerry Championship Final: Castle 1-09 Dingle 1-09. Castle once again showed their ?never say die? spirit when they fought back to earn a draw in this W Kerry Final. A strong blustery wind blew across the pitch and made it very difficult for both teams to play the open brand of football they are both best at. Castle opened the scoring with a point from Alan Fitzgerald in the first minute. Dingle levelled in the 7th minute but Ryan Kelliher put Castle back in front with a pointed free in the 8th. Dingle once again drew level in the 14th minute but a bizarre sequence of events ended with Patrick O'Donnell putting the ball into the Dingle net. Castle?s joy was short lived as Dingle scored a goal of their own within 2 minutes. 2 quick points in the 19th and 21st minutes gave Dingle the advantage. Alan Fitzgerald brought it back to 1 in the 26th minute and a further point from Shane Hennessy left it level at the interval. In the 7th minute of the second half Dingle went a point up but a fine point from Stephen Brownie levelled it once more. Dingle got their noses in front with 2 points in the 17th and 18th minutes. Shane Hennessy brought it back to 1 in the 21st. Within 2 minutes Dingle again went 2 up but a Ryan Kelliher free reduced it to 1 once more. A point for Dingle in the 27th minute looked to have given them victory but Castle, as they have done all season, dug deep and a brace of points from man of the match Shane Hennessy earned them a well deserved draw. Replay next Saturday 15th December in Páirc an Caisleáin. Throw-in 2.00pm Team: S Kenny, G O?Connor, J O?Connor, J Scully, A Finn, S O?Mahony, G O?Callaghan, D Heasman, S Hennessy, A McNamara, R Kelliher, J B Spillane, A Fitzgerald, A Lynch, P O?Donnell. Subs: S Browne, D Murphy, S Moriarty, F Murphy, C Sills, T Reidy, B O?Neill, J O?Donnell, J Fitzgerald, L Maunsell, C O?Mahony. AGM: Due to W K Final replay the club AGM has been deferred for a week. webpage: check our webpage at www.castlegregorygaa.com CARE OF The Aged: The Care of the Aged weekly dinner will be held regularly every Tuesday. However, it would be most helpful if those wishing to attend would please phone the Information Centre to give their names. Contact No. is 71939422. THIS YEARS Care of the Aged Christmas Party: will take place on Saturday the 15th of December in the Clubrooms. Mass will take place at 12.00pm and dinner will commence at 1.00pm. Places are limited so please give your name in to the Information Centre or ring 066 7139422 ASAP. CASTLEGREGORY NEWSLETTER: Are you interested in writing an article for the newsletter? If so, please contact the Castlegregory Information Centre at 066 7139422 or email castleinfo@eircom.net. The newsletter is becoming increasingly popular and we would like to have more of an input from our Community, so why not put pen to paper and get involved! REFUSE COLLECTION: The next date for the Community Refuse Collection will be on Thursday the 14th of December from 7.30am to 10.30am. RECYCLING BAGS: Recycling Bags are now available at the Information Office, price ?2 per bag. Only bags with the Community Council Logo will be accepted at the collection area (West End). The next collection for Recycling will be Friday 21st of December 2007 from 7.30am ? 10.30am. PARENT AND Toddler Group: Meet every Monday morning in the Clubrooms from 10.00am ? 1.00pm. All ages welcome. CHRISTMAS GIFT: Barefoot Scholars, a history of Castlegregory by Elthne Griffin on sale in all local shops, in bookshops throughout Kerry and will be available in the Christmas country market. You can also receive a copy by contacting Elthne: 086 6066865 or email: elthne@barefootscholars.com. PICTURES: from Barefoot Scholars in lovely sepia colour: collage of Musicians, Characters and Twins as a set of three or single, with or without frames and in two sizes. LIMITED NUMBER Printed: a unique collage of all the pictures from the book 450mm x 640mm in black/white showing the changes in Castlegregory down through the years, contact details above for more information and orders. CASTLEGREGORY CHARITY Bazaar: The organisers would like to thank all those who supported the table quiz for the Dunmore East/Fenit Lifeboat cause, held recently in Castlegregory. A further ?275 was raised on top of the ?900.00 from the bazaar earlier this year. Many thanks for all the support and don?t forget to keep any unwanted items for next year?s charity. DEFIBRILLATOR: There is a one day course organised for the 16th January at 7.30pm, anyone interested please contact the Information Centre. Ballylongford BALLYLONGFORD DRAMA GROUP: The Ballylongford Drama Group will present their Annual Panto on tomorrow evening Wednesday December 12th at the Carmody Community Centre commencing at 7.30pm. This year the group are presenting the very popular ?Beauty and the Beast? in which the cast along with their tutors and parents have put in a huge commitment in ensuring that this play will be a huge success. But the success will depend on the support of the entire community and everybody is urged to attend. Tickets for the event will be on Sale at the door. We wish all concerned every success. LENAMORE SCHOOL MASS: The Annual Christmas Mass which is Annually celebrated at Lenamore School will be celebrated on this Thursday evening December 13th commencing at 8pm (Sharp). PRESENTATION NIGHT: Maybe it was not the best kept secret after all as to who the local Bord Na Nog Club was to invite for their presentation function which is due to take place at the local Community Centre Asdee on this Friday night December 14th. I am sure that there will be a warm Asdee/Bally welcome when the Senior Football Player of the Year and current Kerry All Star Mark O Shea will appear on stage. The All Star Kerry Senior footballer will make the presentation of medals to members of the successful Under 14 team who recently won the North Kerry Division 2 title, the Under 12 team who were surprisingly piped by a late goal in the North Kerry Division 2 decider will be presented with their runners up medals while the Asdee National School ,( 3 Teacher) who were victorious in the North Kerry Final of Cumann Na mBunscoil will also receive their medals. The results of the Asdee Coiste na nOg Fundraising Draw which was ongoing for the past number of weeks will also be announced on the night. Other invited guests will include Officers of Coiste Na nO Ciarrai Thuaidh C.L.G. There will be plenty food and refreshments served. Proceedings will get underway at 7pm sharp and a most enjoyable night is assured. NORTH KERRY SENIOR FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: The Bernard O? Callaghan Memorial North Kerry Senior Championship swings into full action again on this coming weekend and O? Rahilly Park Ballylongford will be the centre of attraction on this coming Sunday afternoon December 11th as there are two very attractive games down for decision. The first game at 12.30pm will feature Ballyduff and Beale in the Quarter Final Replay of the ongoing saga in which up to now could not be decided, so after two draws and a draw in extra time already played one wonders can anything separate the sides well surely on Sunday a result will be reached. The second game on Sunday will see the first of this years Semi Finals in which Tarbert will take on Desmonds at 1.45pm again a very enthralling encounter is expected here and no doubt Tarbert will be looking to book a place in the Final especially after their promotion to Division 2 and the winning of Division 3 of the County League recently, but Desmonds fresh after their victory on Sunday last in the County league, will surely spur on the boys from the Eastern side of the District. So a great day is in store with hopefully the weather being a great deal kinder than what it has been over the last week in which a bumper crowd should be in attendance. Patrons attending should ensure to be at the venue as early as possible and to please co operate with the stewards which will be on duty. FIANNA FAIL: The Annual General Meeting of the Ballylongford Fianna Fail Cumann will be held on Monday night next December 17th at the Parish Hall commencing at 9pm. All existing members and indeed intending members are asked to be in attendance. This is the last Cumann A.G.M. be 
