sport football
{  
    March 25 2012 03:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/dion-fanning-when-death-calls-we-realise-sport-is-at-the-centre-of-living-26835884.html }
'I try," Fabrice Muamba said when he was asked, hours after he regained consciousness, if he was an excellent footballer. "I try." Everything we came to know about Fabrice Muamba last week could be summed up in those words. It was a week when we realised, due to the incredible story of Muamba and the tragic death of Jim Stynes, how much, not how little, sport means. Muamba was reported to have asked, "Did we lose?" when he first woke, yet another heartening sign that he was on the way to making an astonishing recovery. The more normal thing would have been to ask "Did we win?" but Muamba, as a Bolton Wanderers player, was aware of the odds, that defeat on the football field was a distinct possibility. At least he didn't add "again". Muamba's first thoughts were of the game but many others were quick to say how football was put into perspective or that what had happened wasn't that extraordinary at all. Football, it was said early on as many grasped for the nearest cliché, 'pales into insignificance' when something like this happens. In fact, it becomes more vivid. Nobody hands over to a story about the household charge by saying that today's tragic events have put it all into perspective. They don't talk about Enda's visit to Washington paling into insignificance because they know that, deep down, it is already insignificant, that it couldn't be any paler if it was an anaemic kid living in a basement on an iron-free diet. In fact, most of what is treated as the serious stuff of life is triviality compared to football. The next cabinet reshuffle pales into insignificance when compared with Manchester United's upcoming trip to Manchester City. Or even their trip to Norwich City. Many also couldn't resist the opportunity to give football a kicking. "Doesn't it say something that we have to comment on the warmth and generosity of the crowd," was one view going around last weekend. Unfortunately, there was nobody around to point out that they were the ones commenting on the warmth and generosity of the crowd and then being amazed at their own comments. Life must be endless days of wonder for these people. This essentially conservative view says that football fans are all bad. In the old days, this was why Mrs Thatcher wanted to place them under constant surveillance and, these days, it argues that a gay footballer could never come out because, unlike at rugby or GAA, the crowds would be so hostile. When the rugby and GAA communities were praised for their reaction after Gareth Thomas and Dónal óg Cusack came out, I don't remember too many articles saying they shouldn't be applauded for their humanity or columns criticising the praise the RFU received when they fined rugby fans for homophobic chanting. The response to Muamba demonstrated that football fans have not been dehumanised. This was only amazing to those who thought they were sub-human in the first place. Even this reaction, some argued, was compelling evidence of football's badness. Football was so diseased that people were being praised for behaving normally. This was like criticising an alcoholic who gets sober by telling him he shouldn't have been drinking so much in the first place. Football was to know its place. There was undoubtedly an excess of self-praise but it had begun from that place of bourgeois astonishment as they commented that the crowd at White Hart Lane had behaved so well, given that they were football fans and all. Football fans' tribalism has become part of the cartoonish grotesqueness of modern football life but, for the most part, it is a cartoon. There have been some shocking examples of abuse on Twitter which has led people to pronounce that society, and football has become more debased. A lot of what happens on the internet is unpleasant, cowardly and a demonstration of the worst of the pack mentality and the bully. It is wounding and distressing but it is the price paid, in the most part, for allowing people to speak under the cloak of anonymity. It is not a cloak but a jackboot. Those who felt things had been put into perspective were probably among those policing the internet to make sure that nobody was enjoying themselves in any way over the weekend. Football isn't taken too seriously. Like life, it is often treated piously and pompously which are very different things, even if they are often confused. Death, or the possibility of it, puts a lot of things in perspective: pettiness, cynicism, parking tickets. But death magnifies life too and makes joy, beauty and shared experiences even more meaningful and important. Football, like music, provides these moments of beauty and transformation. Watch a boy going to a football match holding his father's hand and say that sport pales into insignificance compared to the serious things in life. Sport doesn't have to be defined by the sneering mob. Fabrice Muamba is an extraordinary man. Jim Stynes was an exceptional human being. Watch the eulogy to Stynes delivered by his team-mate Garry Lyon and then claim that sport was an irrelevance. It provided the backdrop for Stynes' humanity and allowed the world to hear of it. "I try," Fabrice Muamba said and we know how profound that is, how his whole life had been infused with that spirit and how football had provided an escape from a childhood of terror and fear. If Stynes and Muamba never had anything to do with sport, their families and their friends would have known about their majesty and grace. Thanks to sport, we know it too and our lives are more meaningful because of it. Nothing else matters. dfanning@independent.ie Sunday Indo Sport 
