sport football
{  
    April 16 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27369420.html }
Waterville CONGRATULATIONS to Sheila and Michael Daly on the birth of their son and to the happy grandparents Michael and Mary in Aghatubrid and Michael Fitzgerald, Lower Waterville. EASTER CEREMONIES: Holy Thursday — Mass in St Finians at 7pm and in Cillín Liath at 8.30pm. Good Friday — St Finians, Celebration of Passion at 3pm; Cillín Liath, Stations of the Cross at 8pm. Holy Saturday — St Finians, Ester Vigil at 8pm; Cillín Liath, Easter Vigil at 9.30pm. Easter Sunday — Masses in St Finians at 6 and 11am; Cillín Liath, Mass at 9.30am. Confessions on Wednesday, April 16 in both churches at 8pm; Holy Thursday and Holy Saturday at 5pm. GOOD FRIDAY WALK: A 10km walk in aid of Kerry Hospice will take place on Good Friday, April 18 from Waterville Car Park to Rineen Pier and back, starting at 11am. Sponsorship cards can be obtained from all the shops or donations can be made on the day. CONGRATULATIONS . . . to the boys of St Finians School who won the mini sevens football final in Killeenlea on Thursday and to the girls who were beaten in their final by the Ballinskelligs VS girls. Well done to all the teams who took part. CEOL AN GHEIMHRIDH: Congratulations to Patricia O’Sullivan of Shanaknock and St Finian’s NS, who got third place in the button accordion competition in Ardfert on Saturday; to Hazel Dineen of Lohar and Killeenlea NS who got first place in singing in under 12 section and to her sister Maeve who got first place in the under 14 section. Both sang “Roisín Dubh”. BRIDGE: Results of Monday, April 7 — 1, Kay Concannon and Teresa Quinlan; 2, Maureen Golden / Helena Murphy; 3, Paddy and Kathleen O’Shea. TABLE QUIZ: Waterville Early Years Centre are holding a fundraising quiz on Thursday, April 17 at 9.30pm in Charlie’s. Everybody welcome. CAR BOOT SALE: IRD Waterville Ltd, are holding a car boot sale on Sunday, April 27, in Waterville Community Centre car park. Set-up at 11am. Sale starts at 11.30am. Price per car ?10. What you earn you keep, Bring your own table. TABLE QUIZ: On Good Friday night at 8pm at Cahersiveen Credit Union in aid of Valentia Comm Hospital and St Anne’s Comm Hospital, Cahersiveen. GAA LOTTO: Numbers drawn on April 9 were 2, 3, 7. The jackpot of ?950 was won by John Huggard, 7 Sea View Terrace, Waterville. The jackpot now starts at ?300. The next draw takes place on April 16 at Villa Maria. Máistir Gaoithe SRAITH an Chontae: Bhí bua maith ag Piarsaigh na Dromoda in aghaidh Gleann Fleisce i Sraith an Chontae,an Domhnach seo caite. Bhuaigh siad ar an scór 0–7 in aghaidh 0–4. Seo leanas an foireann: Alan Ó Hogáin, Aodhán Ó Concubhair, Cian Ó hAilaoise, Donal M Ó Súilleabháin, Donncha Shine Ó Súilleabháin, Brendáin Ó Mangáin, Pádraig Ó Síocháin, Seán Tarvers, Colm Ó Concubhair, Micheál Ó Concubhair, Fergal Ó Concubhair 0–2, Ciarán Moul Ó Súilleabháin, Séamus M Ó Súilleabháin, Deaghlán Ó Súilleabháin 0–4, Caoimhín Ó Súilleabháin 0–1. Ionaidí: Seán Ó Curráin, Muiros Ó Concubhair, Donal Jer Ó Súilleabháin, Micheál Ó Síocháin. MIONÚIRÍ: Bhí bua maith ag Piarsaigh na Dromoda/An Coireán in aghaidh Naomh Mhuire i Sraith an Chontae de hAoine seo caite. THANKS: Forbairt na Dromoda wish to thank all the organisations, groups and individuals from the Dromid community who helped fund–raise for the Special Olympics, the fund–raising was a huge success — ?2,000 was raised in all. This will enable the community to sponsor two athletes, one from Cillín Liath Primary School and one from the community. TABLE QUIZ: On Good Friday Night at 8pm at Cahersiveen Credit Union in aid of Valentia Community Hospital and St Ann’s Community Hospital, Cahersiveen. Cahersiveen COMMUNITY GAMES: The Cahersiveen Community Games had success last Sunday on a very wet and windy day in Beaufort. It was the final of the cross country events. Dawn Lynch won gold a convincing winner of the girls U13 race. Paula O’Sullivan finished in third place in the girls U12 400m. Fionan Kissane received a certificate for his fourth place finish in the boys U12 600m. Well done also to Niamh O’Donovan, Charlotte Sharpe and Daniel Daly who also competed in the U12 events. Well done to all and best of luck to Dawn, Paula, and Jenny who have qualified to run in Mosney in May. SCOIL MHUIRE: Enrolment to Scoil Mhuire Boys National School and Pre-School days will take place on two consecutive Tuesdays, ie, Tuesday, April 29 from 9.30am to 12 noon and Tuesday, May 6 from 9.30am to 12 noon. If you have any query concerning enrolment please ring the school at 9472666. DAY OF PRAYER: A bus will leave Cahersiveen on Saturday, April 26 to visit Eddie Stone, Clonfert, for a day of prayer, confession, exposition, Mass and healing. Enquiries to (066) 9472797. KERRY HOSPICE: The Kerry Hospice Foundation will hold a sponsored walk on Good Friday, April 18. All money raised in Kerry is used within the county to care for terminally ill patients and their families. For more information or sponsorship cards please contact Maureen O’Sullivan on 9471282 or Mary Landers on 9473233. COMHALTAS: Irish night every Thursday in the Shebeen Bar at 9.30pm. Ceili, Irish music, song and dance. All welcome. BINGO: Bingo continues every Friday night in the Cahersiveen Community Centre at 8.30pm. GYMNASTICS: Gymnastics take place every Saturday morning at 10.30am in the Cahersiveen Community Centre. COUNTRY MARKET: The Cahersiveen Country Market will coincide with the Fair Day calendar throughout 03, from 11am to 3pm in the Cahersiveen Community Centre. Contact Barbara on (066) 9479323 or (087) 2965874. TABLE QUIZ: A table quiz in aid of the Cahersiveen and Valentia Hospital will be held in the Cahersiveen Credit Union on Good Friday, April 18. A table of four will cost ?20. Your support would be greatly appreciated. READERS: Remember if you have any articles you wish to have printed in the Cahersiveen Notes, ie, weddings, births, deaths, events or any breaking news please call or ring the Acard office at the Cahersiveen Heritage Centre, (066) 9472777 before noon on Mondays. If you don’t tell us we can’t tell them. CAR BOOT SALE: IRD Waterville Ltd, are holding a car boot sale on Sunday, April 27, in Waterville Community Centre car park. Set-up at 11am. Sale starts at 11.30am. Price per car ?10. What you earn you keep, Bring your own table. KERRY BEAGLE ASSOC: Results of the John Deasy Memorial Drag Hunt held at Ballineen, West Cork. Senior: 1, Max, IHTA, Cork; 2, Blue Bog, IHTA, Cork; 3, Mason, Mayfield, Cork; 4, Surprise Skipper, IHTA, Cork; 5, Jes, Northern Hunt, Cork; 6, Flo, IHTA, Cork; 6, Flo, IHTA, Cork. First Kerry hound: Pie, Jerry Driscoll, Portmagee club; 2nd Kerry hound, Gena, Con O’Leary, Pound club. Maiden: 1, Tetley, Chokeen, Cork; 2, River View, IHTA, Cork; 3, You Never Walk Alone, Owenbeau, Cork; 4, Rheda Lady, Danny Lyons, Killoe club, Kerry; 5, Fadie, Kerry Pike, Cork; 6, Crofter, IHTA, Cork. The drag was timed at 35 minutes. Next Sunday’s drag hunt will be sponsored by Tom’s Tavern, held at Carharn. Hounds off at 3pm. Good luck to everybody on the day. We would like to thank Danny Lyons and the Killoe club for making us feel proud in Cork on Sunday, with their class hound Rheda Lady. Ballinskelligs CAR BOOT SALE: IRD Waterville Ltd, are holding a car boot sale on Sunday, April 27, in Waterville Community Centre car park. Set-up at 11am. Sale starts at 11.30am. Price per car ?10. What you earn you keep, Bring your own table. Caherdaniel THE Death took place in London of Patrick Egan, late of 49 Hunters Grove, Hayes, Middlesex and of Curraghmore, Nenagh, Co. Tipperary. He died peacefully on Sunday, April 6 at Hillingdon Hospital. Remains leaving Cain’s Funeral Home at 4.45pm, funeral Mass on Tuesday at 12.15pm at Botwell Church, Hayes. Sadly missed by his loving wife Joan, daughter Marie, son Billy, daughter-in-law Mandy, grandchildren, sisters, brothers, nieces, nephews, relatives and friends. CAR BOOT SALE: IRD Waterville Ltd, are holding a car boot sale on Sunday, April 27, in Waterville Community Centre car park. Set-up at 11am. Sale starts at 11.30am. Price per car ?10. What you earn you keep, Bring your own table. Baile ’n Sceilg MÍLE buíochas le Tigh Rosie a dhein urraíocht ar gheansaithe peile foireann peile u-14. Many thanks to Tigh Rosie for sponsoring the u-14 footballers new football shirts. RÁS ÓICHE: Ná Dearmad go mbeidh do chapall ag rith Óiche Domhnach Cásca sa Ballinskelligs Inn. TEACH LE CHÉILE: Tosnóidh an School Reunion ar a 3pm 4ú Bealtaine. Beidh Spailpín ag seinnt ar a 5pm. Bí ann! COMHGHAIRDEAS . . . le cailíní Scoil Mhíchíl a bhuaigh na mini sevens an tseachtain seo caite. PEIL: Bhí bua mhaith ag Baile ’n Sceilg / Faill Mór i gcoinne Cordal ar an Domhnach. Imreoidh siad An Neidín i Neidín an Satharn seo 7pm. Imreoidh an foireann B i gcoinne Doire Fhíonáin Dé Domhnaigh ar a 2.30pm. Imreoidh an foireann A arís Luan Cásca i gcoinne Piarsaig na Dromada sa Chluiche leath cheannais d sraith Ciarraí Theas so Choireán ar 2.30pm. Go néirí leo. WOMEN IN AGRICULTURE: A health and safety seminar workshop will be held in the Gleneagle Hotel, Killarney on Friday, May 19 from 9.30am to 3.30pm. For further information contact Margaret Moran at (087) 2426587. COMHBRÓN . . . ó croí le muintir Sean Jack Ó Suilleabháin a chailleadh on tseachtain seo caite agus Muintir Máire Bean Uí Ghabhánn a chailleadh i MBaile Átha Cliath. Ar dheis lámh Dé go raibh a anamacha. MEETING: A meeting of Coiste Forbaithe Baile ’n Sceilg will be held on this Wednesday night, April 16 at 9pm. All members are asked to attend. CAR BOOT SALE: IRD Waterville Ltd, are holding a car boot sale on Sunday, April 27, in Waterville Community Centre car park. Set-up at 11am. Sale starts at 11.30am. Price per car ?10. What you earn you keep, Bring your own table. Legion GAA  SENIOR CO LEAGUE CURROW 0–15 LEGION 1–9 PLAYED in windy, yet otherwise good conditions at Knocknagoshel last Saturday evening our senior team were yet again victims of their own poor finishing. Having enjoyed an even share of possession, the difference was Currow’s accuracy in front of the posts and our squandering of fine chances. Currow opened their account almost straight from the throw–in and within eight minutes were four points to the good. Legion then settled with John Cronin and John Keane both starting to get to grips with Scanlon and McGlynn around the middle and this soon reflected on the scoreboard with points from Mike Sullivan, Seanie Culloty and John Cronin reducing the deficit. Flynn at full–forward for Currow for the remaining 10 minutes of the first half caused a lot of trouble for our full–back line with Currow increasing their lead only for McIndoe and O’Sullivan to keep Legion in contention with five points to leave the half–time score 0–12 to 0–5. Legion started the second half with the aid of the very stiff wind and O’Sullivan started where he left off, scoring a brace of points along with a John Keane score and the Legion were enjoying the lion’s share of possession. Fergal Moynihan was yet again the steadying influence at the back along with Seán Hegarty and were at this stage stemming any Currow attack. At the other end, Legion were piling on increasing pressure and with only three minutes to go David McIndoe hit the net for Legion to allow for an exciting finish. Legion had enough chances to at least tie the game but couldn’t avail of them and it was Currow who finished the scoring with two unanswered points. Team: Peter O’Leary, Enda Murphy, Gene McCarthy, Fergal Moynihan, Ger McGillicuddy, Eoin Carroll, Seán Hegarty, John Cronin 0–1, John Keane 0-1, Mike Sullivan 0–5, MB O’Donoghue, Seán Culloty 0–1. Sub: Ciarán O’Grady for Mark Griffin. FIXTURES: Senior Co League this weekend at home to Spa. Under 6 to under 10 boys and girls coaching Saturday mornings, 10.45am to 12 noon. Please note also that under 12 girls training time has been changed to 10.45am on Saturdays. Usual bus routes will operate. All new girls are welcome. Any query please contact Marie O’Sullivan. GAELTACHT SCHOLARSHIP: Anyone interested in the following Gaeltacht scholarship please contact Pat Moynihan. GOLF CLASSIC: Preparations are well underway for our inaugural Golf Classic to be held on Friday, May 16, at Killorglin. All proceeds from this event will go towards our new clubhouse development due to start this week. NEW CLUBHOUSE: As most of you are aware the club are presently undertaking the project of developing a new clubhouse with state of the art changing rooms, club meeting rooms, indoor training area and a viewing balcony. Located at the opposite side of our car park to the present clubrooms, these facilities will be of benefit to everyone in our club. Like everything else these days this development doesn’t come cheaply and anyone young or old who would like to lend a hand in any way, be it with fund–raising ideas or anything else, the club would be delighted. These facilities, we feel are essential as we now cater for nearly 150 boys and girls every Saturday along with another 12 teams up senior. MINOR: Our minors under trainer Frankie Walsh kicked off their County League with a win over a Cromane/Listry combination on a 0–8 to 0–6 scoreline. Much credit is due to Frankie who has already put a lot of work into this age group. U–16: Meanwhile our under 16 side made it two victories in a row by defeating Rathmore last Wednesday, having beaten Glenflesk the previous week. Membership: Any membership not already paid to Registrar Tommy Regan should be submitted straight away. Adults, ?15, students, ?10, juveniles, ?5. LOTTO: Numbers drawn were: 4, 6, 11, 24. No Jackpot winner. 11 Match 3s. Next week’s Jackpot is ?5,100. SYMPATHY: The club extends its sincere sympathy to the family of John Mannix who died last week. Ar Dheis Dé go raibh a anam. Quills Cross Residents Group THERE will be a Table Quiz at Ballyfinnane Community Hall on Friday night, April 18 starting at 9pm. Tables of 4 will be ?20. Sneem IRD Waterville Ltd, are holding a car boot sale on Sunday, April 27, in Waterville Community Centre car park. Set-up at 11am. Sale starts at 11.30am. Price per car ?10. What you earn you keep, Bring your own table. Kells IRD Waterville Ltd, are holding a car boot sale on Sunday, April 27, in Waterville Community Centre car park. Set-up at 11am. Sale starts at 11.30am. Price per car ?10. What you earn you keep, Bring your own table. Portmagee IRD Waterville Ltd, are holding a car boot sale on Sunday, April 27, in Waterville Community Centre car park. Set-up at 11am. Sale starts at 11.30am. Price per car ?10. What you earn you keep, Bring your own table. Valentia IRD Waterville Ltd, are holding a car boot sale on Sunday, April 27, in Waterville Community Centre car park. Set-up at 11am. Sale starts at 11.30am. Price per car ?10. What you earn you keep, Bring your own table. Castlecove IRD Waterville Ltd, are holding a car boot sale on Sunday, April 27, in Waterville Community Centre car park. Set-up at 11am. Sale starts at 11.30am. Price per car ?10. What you earn you keep, Bring your own table. Beaufort APOLOGIES for the non–appearance of these Notes last week which were forwarded at the usual time. LOTTO: There will be a massive ?8,700 Jackpot for our next draw on this Sunday night at Beaufort Bar. There will be a seller’s prize of ?870 if there is a single Jackpot winner. CONGRATULATIONS: To all the boys and girls of the parish schools who were confirmed by Dr Bill Murphy at St Mary’s Church, Beaufort, on Monday, April 7. SYMPATHY is extended to Bride O’Shea and family, Mealis, and Sheila O’Donoghue and family, Keel, Kilgobnet, on the death of their mother, Hannah Moriarty, Dromin, whose death occurred at the weekend. Sympathy is also extended to Mary Doyle and family, Tullig, on the death of her father last week. CO LEAGUE: Beaufort seniors collected two more Co League points at Mountcoal on Saturday evening when they defeated St Senans 2–9 to 1–9. Beaufort had an impressive eight points lead at one stage but the locals made a late rally to close the gap. UNDER 14: Our under 14 team took part in Féile na nÓg over the weekend. On Saturday in Beaufort they played Legion and Kilcummin. Unfortunately Rathmore did not travel. In the first game they accounted for Legion on a scoreline of 0–11 to 0–2 and beat Kilcummin on a scoreline of 2–8 to 0–3. As a result of this they qualified to meet Kerins O’Rahillys in the semi–final in the other semi–final. Dr Crokes played Ardfert. Both games were played in the Legion pitch on Sunday evening. Kerins O’Rahillys were too strong in the semi–final and ran out winners on a score of 3–6 to 2–4. Beaufort playing with the wind in the first half led by 2–3 to 0–2 but on resumption the Tralee team scored two quick goals and kept the pressure on Beaufort. Unfortunately time ran out and O’Rahillys went on to meet Dr Crokes in the final. Dr Crokes won this and will represent Kerry in Galway in July. UNDER 16: Our under 16 team, sponsored by CRL Oils Killarney, continued their winning ways on Thursday evening last in Beaufort when they disposed of Milltown/Castlemaine in the 3rd round of the Mid–Kerry championship. Half–time score was 2–6 to 1–3. In the second half Beaufort added 1–5 while the losers added 0–6. Final score: 3–11 to 1–9. Team: Jason Foley, Tadhg O’Donoghue, Liam O’Sullivan, Seán Courtney, Pádraig Hartnett, Daniel O’Shea, Micheál Dennehy, James Reilly 1–1, Michael Hallissey 0–1, Jeremiah O’Sullivan 0–1, Francis Courtney 0-3, Kevin Moriarty, Timothy O’Sullivan, Pádraig O’Neill 2–5, Cormac Joy. Subs: Martin O’Donoghue, Colm O’Shea, Shane Coffey, Paul O’Neill, Jonathan Doona, Gerard Hartnett, Pádraig Hallissey, Timothy O’Donoghue. UNDER 14: Our under 14s sponsored by MF Decorating were beaten by Kerins O’Rahillys in the 4th round of Division 1 Co League at Beaufort on Tuesday evening last. In the first half the scores were level at 1–1 to 0–4. The first 18 minutes of the second half were also very close but the visitors pulled away in the last 12 minutes to win on a scoreline of 2–14 to 1–5. Team: Colm O’Rourke, Alan Courtney, Cathal Reilly, Gerard Hartnett, Shane Coffey, Andy Doona, Gerard Doherty, Timothy O’Sullivan, Brendan Moloney 0–2, Kevin Ferris, Colm O’Shea 0–2, Eoin Doyle, Seán Foley 1–0, Pádraig Hallissey, Ian O’Connor 0–1. Subs used: Pádraig O’Donoghue, Brendan Doyle. MINOR: Co Minor League Div 1, round 2 v Dr Crokes at Deerpark. Beaufort minors (sponsored by Aghadoe Heights) added to their first round win in a keenly contested game on Friday last against Dr Crokes. Crokes were well in control in the first half and deserved their half–time lead of five points. Half–time score: Beaufort 0-4, Dr Crokes 1–6. Crokes started the second half well but found it more difficult to get scores against a more organised Beaufort defence. Slowly Beaufort came into the game and were level with 10 minutes to go. However a typical Crokes goal threw the game wide open again. In fact Beaufort were lucky not to concede a second goal mainly due to the heroics of Michael Dennehy. This seemed to ignite Beaufort and with Kerry minor captain, Dan Doona in excellent form Beaufort kicked six unanswered points. Full–time score: Beaufort 1–13, Dr Crokes 2–7. Man of the Match: Dan Doona. Next game on Monday, April 21, at 4.30pm away to Austin Stacks. LADIES FOOTBALL: Our under 14s qualified for the final stages of Féile when they defeated Spa and Laune Rangers. On Saturday last they played Kenmare and Dr Crokes in lovely conditions in Beaufort. Even though they won one game against Dr Crokes, Kenmare were physically too strong for both teams and thus qualified for the final against Southern Gaels who had won their group. Southern Gaels beat Kenmare in the final, Congratulations to Deirdre and Patrice Dennehy and Gráinne O’Malley who helped Kerry recently to qualify for the Div 1 National League final when they beat Galway in the curtain–raiser to Kerry v Armagh in Tralee. Best of luck to them in the final, which is to be televised on April 27 on TG4. Congrats also to Lisa Dennehy. Riocht AC A MEETING of the club will be held at Skevanas on this Thursday night at 9pm. COUNTY CHAMPIONSHIPS: The Co juvenile championships will be held at the Riocht Track on May 3 and 4 and also May 11. These will cater for athletes from u9 to u19. TRAINING: Continues for club athletes on Monday evening at 8pm, Wednesday evenings at 7pm, Friday evening from 6 to 7 for throwers under the guidance of throwers coach, Gerry Horgan and at 6.45 for training on the track. Well done to Riocht athletes who received awards at the Kerry AAI awards function on Friday night last. Gerry Lyons got the senior mens track and field, John Lenihan snr men cross country and road, Maureen Harrington. Snr women cross country and road and Niamh O’Sullivan Masters women cross country and road. Claire Hartnett and Cian O’Connor received the club awards. Scartaglin SENIORS: Scartaglin football team made another long journey to South Kerry on Saturday evening last. This time the trip was to Derrynane where they played the local team in Division 5 (South) of the county league. It was another successful outing however as Scart collected their second brace of points with a well (merited) victory over the local side, in an evenly contested game. Played in ideal conditions. The teams were level on no less than three occasions in the opening half but at the break it was Scartaglin who were in front by 1-6 to 0-5. Scart scores coming from Brendan Rahilly (1-0), Patrick Rahilly and John Cullotty (0-3 each). Derrynane got off to a great start in the second half when scoring a goal inside the opening minute. This reduced the gap to the minimum margin. Following a further exchange of points, the sides were still only separated by a point. With about ten minutes remaining Scarts Alan Dineen was fouled in the small square and from the resulting penalty Tom Boyle shot the ball over the bar for a much needed score. Scart goalkeeper Martin Hewitt pointed from a “45” shortly afterwards to leave three points between the teams. Derrynane pressed hard for an equalising goal in the dying minutes, but in the end they could only manage a point and Scart held out for a valuable victory. It ended Scartaglin 1-11, Derrynane 1-9. This was a good team effort and display from Scart, who had some very good performances from Martin Hewitt, Damien O’Connor, Tim Coakley, Sean Canty and Patrick Rahilly for whom this was his last game prior to departing for America. Martin Hewitt (0-1), Alan Cronin, Damien O’Connor, Bernard Cronin, Padraig Reidy, Pa Murphy, Seamus Riordan, Tim Coakley (0-1), Sean Canty, Brendan Rahilly (1-0), Patrick Rahilly (0-4), Alan Dineen (0-1), Tom Boyle (0-1), Con Kerin, John Cullotty (0-3). Subs: Noel Rahilly for Con Kerin (injured in second half), Mike Coakley for Alan Cronin, Seanie Reidy for John Cullotty, Alan Horan, Fred and Pa O’Connor, Mossie Herlihy, Daniel Murphy. Scartaglin have made an excellent start this season to their county league campaign and are expecting good support when they play Glenbeigh/ Glencar in Round 4 on this Saturday evening at 7pm, in Scartaglin. MEETING: There is a general meeting of Scartaglin GAA Club on Tuesday night next, April 22, in the Clubhouse, commencing at 9pm. All involved in the Club are asked to attend. MINORS: Scartaglin minor footballers continued on their winning way when easily accounting for Listowel Emmets at Scartaglin on Friday evening last. This was a one sided contest which ended on a final scoreline of Scartaglin 2-12, Listowel Emmets 0-3. The Listowel side were first to score and went a point ahead in the 12th minute. The score then being 0-3 to 0-2. A point for Scart from JJ Murphy a minute later and one from John Cullotty at the end of the first quarter put Scart back in front and thereafter the home side never looked back, and Emmets failed to score for the remainder of the match. At half time the score was Scartaglin 0-8, Listowel Emmets 0-3. Two goals for Scart from Kerry minor Padraig Reidy midway through the second half ended this game as a contest, and with John Cullotty in fine point scoring from the local boys coasted to a very easy victory. Timothy Kerins the Scartaglin goalkeeper brought off a fine save from point blank range in the tenth minute of the game. Scartaglin: Timothy Kerins, Eddie O’Connell, Brendan Reidy, Eoin McSweeney, Alan Horan, Padraig Reidy (2-1), John Thompson, Daniel Murphy (0-1), Mike Coakley, JJ Murphy (0-1), John Fitzgerald (0-1), Freddie Galvin (0-1), John Cullotty (0-6), Mark Kerins (0-1), Shane O’Connell. Subs: Jer O’Connell for F Galvin, Timmy O’Connor for S O’Connell. This Friday evening (Good Friday), Scartaglin are away to Ardfert in Round 3 at 7pm, and on Easter Monday, Scartaglin are at home to Rathmore at 4.30pm. The local boys would like support on Monday evening, they deserve it. AFTER SCHOOL CLUB: Scartaglin Primary School After-School Club will be open for Easter as follows - Wednesday, April 16, 12.30 to 6pm. Holy Thursday, April 17, 9am to 6pm. Tuesday, April 22 to Friday, April 25 inclusive 9am to 6pm. For enquiries phone (066) 7147962. CHILDCARE WORKER: Scartaglin Pre-School and After-School Club require a temporary Childcare worker immediately to cover sick leave. Applicants must have Childcare Level 1 or equivalent. For enquiries and applications contact Maureen on 087 9023624. U14 CHALLENGE: Scartaglin U14 ladies football team travelled to Rathcoole, Co Cork recently where they played Dromtarriffe in a challenge match. The Cork girls enjoyed a good first half which they dominated and led at the break by 2-4 to 0-2. Scartaglin however came storming back in the second half and with Grainne Kerins and Julianne O’Connell in fine scoring form. They emerged victorious on a final score of 5-7 to 4-7. The Scartaglin panel was Miriam O’Sullivan, Una Kerins, Nicola Kerins, Bridget O’Mahony, Katie Murphy, Elaine O’Connor, Frances O’Connor, Grainne Kerins (4-2), Julianne O’Connell (1-4), Siobhan Barrett (0-1), Hannah Fortune, Aoife Horan, Noreen Browne, Jennifer Drumm, Laura Kerin, Eileen Horan. Scartaglin U14 ladies play their first game in the county league on this Friday night, April 18, at 7pm, in Scartaglin when they play Kenmare. U12 FIXTURES: The following are some Lee Strand U12 13-a-side county league fixtures involving Scartaglin. Group teams are Fossa, Asdee/ Ballylongford, Gneeveguilla, St Patricks, Knocknagoshel, Tarbert and Scartaglin. Sunday, April 20, Scartaglin v Knocknagoshel. Sunday, April 27, Gneeveguilla v Scartaglin. Sunday, May 4, Scartaglin a bye. Sunday, May 11, Scartaglin v Tarbert. Sunday, May 18, St Pats v Scartaglin. Sunday, May 25, Scartaglin v Asdee/ Ballylongford. All games at 7pm. First named team has home advantage. Co-ordinator Kieran Coffey (064) 33002. Home team to phone in results to co-ordinator or to Mike Carroll on (066) 9767551. No matches are to be called off. LADIES FOOTBALL: U14 county league fixtures involving Scartaglin ladies team are as follows: Round 1, Sunday, April 18, Scartaglin v Kenmare. Round 2, Sunday, April 25, Glenbeigh v Scartaglin. Round 3, Sunday, May 2, Southern Gaels v Scartaglin. Round 4, Sunday, May 9, Scartaglin v Beaufort. Round 5, Sunday, May 16, Scartaglin v Abbeydorney. Round 6, Sunday, May 23, Scartaglin v Gaeltacht/ Chorcha Dhuibhne. Round 7, Sunday, May 30, Scartaglin v Austin Stacks. AFTERNOON OF PRAYER: There will be another Afternoon of Prayer in Our Lady of Lourdes Church, Scartaglin on Sunday next, April 20 (Easter Sunday) with Joe Dalton. Proceedings will start with the recitation of The Rosary at 2.45pm, followed by Divine Mercy at 3pm, along with songs of praise and worship. The afternoon will conclude with a Eucharistic Blessing form Fr John Horan. CANCER RESEARCH: Scartaglin Youth Club wishes to thank all those who supported their recent fundraising event in aid of Cancer Research. The Amount raised came to ™1134.30. So well done to all involved. EASTER MASS: There will be Mass on Easter Sunday morning at Cnoc an Óir Hill, Listowel at 6am. The Easter Fire will be lit at 5.45am, and its a wonderful sight to behold. Anyone in this area who would like to attend the Mass should contact Mary Murphy, Adriville at (066) 7147485. Bus will leave Riordans Garage at 4.30pm, on Easter Sunday morning. Early booking is essential for any interested. CEREMONIES: Times of Ceremonies for Holy Week in Our Lady of Lourdes Church, Scartaglin are as follows: Holy Thursday, Mass of the Lords Supper, 7.30pm. Good Friday, The Passion of Christ, and Relevant Ceremonies commence at 3pm. Stations of the Cross, 7.30pm, on the same evening. Holy Saturday, Mass and Easter Vigil Ceremonies at 9pm. Easter Sunday Mass at 11am. DEATH: The death occurred unexpectedly in San Francisco last week of Jeremiah (Jerome) O’Connor who was formerly a Native of Mount, Scartaglin. The late Jerome was pre-deceased by his wife Anna Mai (nee O’Sullivan who died only in January of this year. Burial took place in San Francisco last week. There will be a Mass celebrated in Scartaglin at a later date in his memory. Tarbert THE programme for the Easter ceremonies in St Mary’s Church, Tarbert, is as follows: Holy Thursday — Mass of the Lord’s Supper at 8pm. Good Friday: Solemn Passion at 3pm. Stations of the Cross at 8pm. Holy Saturday: Children’s Mass at 7pm. Easter Vigil Mass at 9pm. Easter Sunday: Masses at 9am and 11am. On Good Friday at 2.45pm, parishioners from Tarmons, Dooncaha and Tieraclea will assemble outside Eugene Mulcaire’s house and parishioners from the town and the rest of the parish will assemble outside the Swanky for a procession to the church. The respective processions will be led by a cross bearer and both groups will reach the church together and proceed in, side by side, to the church for the celebration of the Solemn Passion at 3pm. HOSPICE WALK: The annual sponsored walk in aid of Listowel Hospice will leave the Square, Tarbert, on Good Friday at 11am sharp and will be back on time for the Soup Kitchen in the Community Centre. All are welcome to join in the walk. Sponsorship cards are available from Mary Kelly, 068/36215. SOUP KITCHEN: As part of the Lenten programme a Soup Kitchen for charity will operate in the Community Centre on Good Friday from 12 noon to 2.30pm. Parishioners are encouraged to forego their lunch on that day and have a bowl of vegetable soup instead. People are asked to make a donation and all monies raised will go to the North Kerry Hospice movement. Your usual good support will be appreciated. DEATHS: Sympathy of the community is extended to Seán Reidy, Doonard Crescent, on the recent death of his mother, Mrs Josephine Reidy, Tiershanahan, Ballyheigue and also to Mrs Bernie O’Keeffe, Tarmons, on the death last week of her sister, Mrs Nuala Hayes, Patrickswell, Co Limerick. NATIONAL MEDAL WINNERS: Tarbert athletes competing in the National indoor championships held in Nenagh recently did their club and their parish proud with their outstanding success. In the girls U–15 — 1,000m walk, Sorcha Prendiville won the gold medal in a new National record time of 4.39.14, while her sister Sinéad won the bronze medal in a personal best time of 4.59 mins. In the U–16 — 1,500m walk, Aoibheann Prendiville, the oldest of the Prendiville sisters, won the gold medal in a photo finish to give her a deserving National title. The gold medal winners will now represent Ireland at an International meeting to be held in England. Another Tarbert athlete, Shane Enright, won a bronze medal in the boys U–16 relay race at the National finals. The athletes, who are members of Listowel AC are deserving of heartiest congratulations and also great credit is due to their coaches and parents for their great effort and dedication to achieve such success. GAA FORUM: Tarbert GAA club are holding an Open GAA Forum at the Lanterns Hotel, Tarbert, on this Sunday night, April 20, commencing at 8pm. The forum will consist of a constructive discussion on GAA affairs between the invited guest speakers and the audience. Topics will include: opening up of Croke Park; alcohol sponsorship; drug testing inter–county players; role of the GPA; professionalism in the GAA; hurling in Kerry; Kerry’s chances in 2003; underage coaching; state of North Kerry Football. The panel of guest speakers will include Kerry County Board Chairman, Seán Walsh; Kerry footballer, Liam Hassett; ex–Kerry footballer, Jimmy Deenihan, TD; 
Kerryman Sports Reporter, Tarbert’s John O’Dowd; Tarbert Parish Priest, Fr Mossy Brick; Kilmacud Crokes Chairman, Pauric McMenamin; Limerick football team trainer, Liam Kerins. The Club Centenary launch will also take place on the night. It will also be an opportunity to have a go at winning the GAA Jackpot of ?8,500 with the draw taking place later in the night. KILNAUGHTIN CEMETERY: A clean–up of Kilnaughtin cemetery will take place on Good Friday at 5pm. DEVELOPMENT ASSOC: The AGM of the Tarbert Development Association was held in the Community Centre recently and a large attendance heard details of the many activities achieved by the various subcommittees during the last year. Thanks was expressed to the members who initiated so much good work for the improvement of the town. Likewise the officers thanked the community at large for its help and support and looked forward to their continued good voluntary work. New officers this year see Adrian Fox as Secretary and Mary O’Connell as Asst Secretary. Maureen Considine is Minutes Secretary. Ollie Keenaghan is the new PRO and John Mulvihill is the Asst Treasurer. Seán Finucane is the Treasurer with Denis Dee and Leo O’Connor continuing as Chairman and Vice–Chairman respectively. The new Committee will meet shortly to finalise the plans for this year. TIDY TOWN CLEAN–UP: Another clean–up in preparation for the Tidy Towns competition has been arranged for this Wednesday, April 16, at 6.30pm, gathering outside the Bridewell. Materials such as refuse sacks and gloves will be available for volunteers. Thanks to all who turned up last week and it is hoped that the momentum will be kept going. SPECIAL OLYMPICS: Final preparations are now underway for the visit of the Jordan team to Tarbert and Listowel as part of the Special Olympics which are being held in June. The Jordan group will visit the area from Monday, June 16 to Thursday, June 19, when they will have an opportunity to rest and acclimatise in advance of going to Dublin for the Games. The opening ceremony is in Croke Park on Saturday, June 21. The local committee are still seeking volunteers to help during this visit and anyone interested in helping should contact either Milo Kelly, 36291 or Michael Carrig, 36544. COMMUNITY IT ACCESS TARBERT: Auto CAD course commenced on Monday, April 14, at 7pm. We would like to announce the opening of a new branch in the Community Centre, Ballybunion. The new branch will provide the same services as the Tarbert Centre. When you visit Ballybunion please make use of the services we provide. The staff of the Tarbert Centre would like to wish the staff of our new Centre every success. GAA LOTTERY: There was no winner of the ?8,400 Jackpot in the GAA Lottery draw held at a packed Shannon Bar on Friday night. The numbers drawn were: 5, 14, 15, 26. Lucky Dip winners of ?30 each were: Nora Griffin, Tom Dillane, Noel O’Callaghan, the Swanky Bar Syndicate. Bar prizewinners were: in the envelope draw, Shane Sheahan was the lucky winner of the top envelope prize of ?300 after refusing a bid of ?100 from MC, Patrick Patwell. ?15 each: Denise Finucane, Mrs Teresa Kiely, Mary Meade. Promoters Prize, ?15: Shannon Bar. The following were the winners of Easter Eggs: Daniel Kiely, John Neville, Michael Carrig, Con Kennelly, Niamh Moriarty, Josephine Deenihan, Barry Conyard, Kevin Finucane, Maurice Holly. There will be no Lottery draw this Friday night, it being Good Friday and the draw will take place instead on Easter Sunday night and it will be held at the Lanterns Hotel after the GAA Forum. CO LEAGUE: Our senior team scored a comprehensive victory over a disappointing Cromane side in the Co League game played in Shannon Park on Sunday. Tarbert won by a score of 2–14 to 0–6. Tarbert led at half–time on a score of 1–4 to 0–4 after playing against the strong wind. The team completely dominated the second half with Shaun McGinley putting in a great game at full–forward scoring 0–7. Eoin O’Connell and Eugene O‘Connell dominated at centrefield for Tarbert despite the presence of Kerry player Seán O’Sullivan. This was a good team performance with every player giving of his best. The team line out was D Enright, B Carrig, J Wren, M Sheehan, K Deenihan, C Holly, S Deenihan, E O’Connell, Eoin O’Connell 0–2, D Lanigan, S Sheehan 1–1, P O’Connell 0–1, P Moriarty 1–1, S McGinley 0–7, N Stack. Subs who played: D Kiely 0–2, N Kelly, M O’Sullivan, C Lanigan. The team are away to Brosna in the Co League on this Saturday, April 19, at 7pm MINOR TEAM: In the first round of the Co League played in Shannon Park, the minor team scored a one point victory over Moyvane, winning on a score of 4–7 to 2–12. The team was: S Shanahan, T Shanahan, E O’Connor, K Heffernan, T Holly, TJ Flaherty, M Houlihan, J Holly, A Lanigan 1–0, C Kelliher 1–0, J Kelliher 0–3, J Sweeney 1–0, D Finucane, J O’Gorman 1–2, G O’Donnell 0–2. Sub: L Dillane. The team lost to Beale in the second round of the competition on Friday night. Templeglantine CEREMONIES: Spy Wednesday, mass at 7.30pm with confession at 7pm. Holy Thursday, 8pm, followed by vigil before the blessed sacrament until 11pm. Good Friday, ceremony at 3pm, followed by confession. 8pm celebrations of the Lords passion. Holy Saturday, 11am, confessions, 10pm, solemn Easter vigil. MUNSTER FINALS: Halla Inse Ban will be the venue for the Munster finals of Scoraiociht Na Nog and Plearacha na Nog on Sunday, April 27. The afternoon programme gets underway at 2.15pm, with the Teampall a Ghleanntain Comhaltas stating their scoraiocht show. Also expected to be taking part in the evenings programme will be Castlemaine and Killorglin, Ardagh-Carrickerry and Craobh Naomh Mhichil, Mainistir. CURSAI AN CHOMHALTAIS: Due to Easter holidays music classes will not be held on Monday night next, but will resume again on the following Monday, April 28. Entries for Fleadh Cheoil Luimning in Glin should be handed in on that night. Many of the pupils will be participating in the music and singing competitions and workshops in Abbeyfeale on the May Bank Holiday weekend. Four members of the craobh attended the Irish singing workshop in Baile Bhuirne on Saturday last. The local Comhaltas Craobh will be represented at the Comhaltas annual congress in Dublin on May 3 and 4. The following were prizewinners at the recent Feile Inse Bhan music competitions. Tin whistle group 2A 1 Katie Harnett, Katherine Kennelly, Melanie Cross, Jessica O’Connor. Group 2B Shaleen O’Riordan, Karen Conroy, Eileen Broderick, Kate Brislane, Anthony White. Lorna Connor, Nadine Smith. Group 2C; Julie Moloney, James O’Mara, Cian O’Keeffe. Group 2D Lisa Scanlon, Katie Brouder, Tomas Moloney, Laura Sheehy and Kevin Collins. Group 2E 1 Melanie Murphy, Matthew O’Connor, Maeve Roche, Aoife Daly, Eimear Morris. Flute, group 2; Edel Collins, Eimear Gaire, Eilis Scanlon, Bridget Moore and Alan Kelly, Eileen Leahy, Marita Harnett. Group 3; Sinead O’Mara, Elaine Scanlon, Bridget Collins, Group 4 Maria Gleeson. GAA: Templeglantine 2-5, Ahane 1-8. We had our 2nd game of the season at the field in the All Co league on Saturday. There was a strong breeze blowing towards the top goals. The first half was tight and Ahane led at the break by 0-5 to 0-4. John Kelly got injured in the first half and was replaced by Ian Liston. Early in the 2nd half, P Colm Mulcahy made a good save from a close in free for Ahana. Then after ten minutes, Jimmy McCarthy goaled from a 21m free. Galantine then enjoyed a good spell and when Dominic Heffernan flicked a long range free to the net, we thought the game was safe. However Ahane were not finished and scored the equalising goal deep in injury time. This was a very clean and entertaining game. Our thanks to Pat O’Connor from Ahane for refereeing the game as the appointed referee did not show. Team P Colm Mulcahy, T King, T Stack, B McAuliffe, J Kelly, P Murphy, T Sexton, A Kelly, G McCarthy, E King, J McCarthy, C McMahon, E Dore, D Heffernan, J Barrett. Subs I Liston J Paul McElligott, J Delee, D Quille. Templelglantine 4-3, Tournafulla 1-2. Our u12 hurlers had a good win over our neighbours at the field on Saturday morning last. The team gelled well and the backs did some sterling defending in the 2nd half, when playing against the breeze. Thomas Young led his troops by example. Team C Heffernan, L Flavin, G White, C Scanlon, L Dore, S Scanlan,S Brouder, P Brislane 1-0, A Stack 0-2, N Dore, M O’Connor, A O’Connor, D Mulcahy 1-0, T Young 2-1, K Brislane. GET WELL: We wish Patsy Kelly a speedy recovery from his recent accident. FIXTURES: Wednesday evening, community games hurling at home to Abbeyfeale at 6pm. Friday evening minor Bs away to St Marys at 7pm. Saturday morning, u12 footballers at home to Gerald Griffins at 11.30am, Sunday junior Bs at home to Kilcornan in the W league at 12 noon. Monday, U14 footballers away to Knockaderry at 7pm. Bus leaves field at 6.15pm, Wednesday, 23, U16s away to Pallaskennery. TRAINING SCHEDULE: Tuesday, U12 and 14 at 5.45pm, juniors at 6.45pm. Wednesday, u8s and u10s hurling training will now be at the field at 6.45 to 7.45 from this evening onwards. Parents should collect their children at 7.45. Thursday, u12 and 14 at 5.45pm, Saturday, u16 at 6pm in Glantine. CARDS: Last weeks winners were Margaret Quaid and Chrissy Normoyle, Mike Sullivan with 13 games. In 2nd place were Eileen Huxley, Sean Harnett and Dan Dillane with 12 games. Bridie and Francy Collins and Eddie Roche (Meenoline) won the table prize. The raffle winners were Sean Harnett, Martin Lyons, Chris Kelly and Gerard Murphy. This weeks game is at 9.30pm. Tralee Harriers Athletic Club (Incorporating both Clounalour and St. Johns Athletic Clubs) The Kerry Sports star awards took place on Friday April 11 2003 and here five Tralee Harrier athletes were honored with awards. Each club in the county nominates two athletes for a county award and the county then nominates a number of athletes for county awards. Tralee Harriers nominated Ashley Guinan and Alan Leen for their dedication and commitment to the sport. Both Alan and Ashley have attended all training sessions, have contested County, Munster and National events over the past few years and are continuing to improve in their chose events. The county nominated Laura Crowe, Tony Barnett and Eoin Leen for the county awards. The achievements of these three athletes are well documented but suffice to say three more deserving athletes would be very hard to find. Well done to all who received awards. Leevale Open Sports - The club will attend Leevale Open sports on April 20th 2003. Transport will leave Gleasures at 9 and anyone interested in traveling should contact Shane Delaney at 087 6191308. Training - Training takes place outdoors at the sports grounds in the Tralee Sports complex at 7pm on both Tuesday and Thursday. Senior and Masters Training takes place each Monday night from 8 -9 at the CYMS hall in Denny Street. All are welcome. Registrations - This years registrations are now closing and anyone who has not sent in their birth certs and/or fees please do so as soon as possible. ANNUAL FLAG DAy - Our annual flag day will be held this month on Tuesday April 22nd and Wednesday 23rd. The rota has been circulated to the senior athletes but any other athletes, parents or club members that may be available to collect for any period of time would be more that welcome. Please contact Adrienne Mc Loughlin at 066 7126463. It is very important that we all help to make our flag day a huge success. Dates for the Diary - County Championships outdoor - 3rd and 4th and 11th of May in Castleisland. Estuary open sports - 18th May G'Guila open sports - 1st June County Primary Schools sports - Casteisland on the 7th of June. Munster Outdoor Championships ages under 9 -under 13 will be held on 14th,15th of June in Castleisland. Listowel open sports - 21st June. Munster outdoor Championships ages under 13 - 18 will be held on the 28th,19th of June in C'Island. Annascaul RESULT of Annascaul Lotto weekending April 11. Numbers drawn 2, 3, 7, 18. Lucky Dip: ?40, Maria Kennedy, The Anchor, Annascaul; Michael Breathnach, Maum, Annascaul; Ger Quirke, Camp; Thomas Ryle, Dingle; Patrick Kennedy, Annascaul Upper. Next draw Friday 19th April at Brosnan’s Bar, jackpot ?4,450 GAA: Annascaul played Listowel in Division 2 of the county league and won by 1-6 to 0-5. Annascaul’s goal was scored by Brendan O’Driscoll in the first half and with points from Sean Farrell and Jamie O’Driscoll were 1-5 to 0-4 pts up at half time. The second half was very physical and had very few chances for either team, with Annascaul holding out by 4 pts at the end. Best for Annascaul were Kieran Driscoll, Brendan O’Driscoll, Niall Sheehy and Emmet Kennedy. Ballybunion COMMUNITY CENTRE: Computer Camp starts on 22nd, 23rd & 24th April. Time: 10am – 12 noon. Ages: 7 – 12 years. Also Basic Computer Course Starting Tuesday, April 22, 8 week course ends Tuesday, June 17. And the follow on course commences April 24 for 8 weeks ends Thursday, June 19. THERE will be a Table Quiz at Ballyfinnane Community Hall on Friday night, April 18 starting at 9pm. Tables of 4 will be ?20. Students of Killarney Community College enjoying their Sports Day on Wednesday. Pic: Michelle Cooper Galvin. 
