sport football
{ Aidan O'Hara 
    April 13 2014 10:23 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/soccer/keane-celebrated-semi-finals-as-a-player-so-why-shouldnt-others-30182666.html }
It was the second leg of the Worthington Cup semi-final in 2003 when Andy Cole scored for Blackburn Rovers to put them 2-1 up in the tie at Ewood Park against his former club Manchester United. By their own high standards of that period, United were experiencing a relative trophy drought having failed to pick up any silverware in the previous season, which was probably why they were so happy when Paul Scholes scored twice before half-time and a Ruud van Nistelrooy penalty later clinched a 4-2 aggregate win. In the dressing-room afterwards, a beaming, topless Roy Keane stood with his arm aloft in celebration alongside Phil and Gary Neville, David Beckham and Ryan Giggs, who were holding a sponsor's banner which read 'See You In Cardiff.' Behind them, Van Nistelrooy and Rio Ferdinand stood on the seating smiling slightly maniacally. Having taken a bite out of his banana, a still topless Keane even found time to pour champagne – labelled 'Worthington Cup finalists' – for goalkeeper Fabien Barthez and smile for the photographer. And all this because a group of the most successful players of their era won a league cup semi-final against a reasonable, but hardly exceptional opponent. There didn't seem to be much hard-nosed analysis going on in the dressing-room about why it had taken until their third meeting of the season for them to finally beat Blackburn or, with it being January 22, perhaps the champagne was a little premature. Maybe it was the reason they lost the final to Liverpool. On Saturday, having watched Arsenal toil for two hours against Wigan, Keane reckoned their players needed a "reality check" after winning on penalties and celebrating reaching an FA Cup final. RELIEF Never mind the relief that they must have felt having been eight minutes away from being eliminated while playing poorly, with the pressure and disappointment of their tens of thousands of supporters at Wembley weighing ever heavier with every passing minute. Or that, as Arsene Wenger put it afterwards, they had survived when "the repercussions and consequences for going out would have been terrible on the mental front". Never mind that Wigan had been good enough to beat Manchester City in the previous round, as well as in last year's final and hadn't lost an FA Cup game since January 2012. And never mind that, at any level, regardless of the opposition, winning a penalty shoot-out takes on a little life of its own, because, while it's certainly not a lottery, it's a test of nerve and technique which many of the world's best players have failed. "Last season they celebrated finishing fourth at Newcastle, now they celebrate beating a Championship side on penalties," said Keane. "We are talking about Arsenal football club here. It's about trophies." Had Keane seen Santi Cazorla – a player who bemoaned Arsenal's lack of winning mentality last week – grab a photographer's camera to take a 'selfie' alongside Aaron Ramsey it might just have tipped him over the edge. Although whether it's any more cringeworthy than jumping around a dressing-room with champagne at Ewood Park while holding a banner made for you by a brewery would be open to some debate. Over his career, there are dozens of pictures of Keane delightedly celebrating goals with his Manchester United team-mates after a fourth or fifth goal against teams of the quality of Crystal Palace, West Brom or West Ham in what were mundane, expected victories. He didn't shrug and tell his team-mates that they were only doing their job. Instead, he did what all players do and what Arsenal did on Saturday which was celebrate achieving the target they have in that moment and, the closer a team comes to failing in that task, the greater the outpouring of emotion that will follow when they make it. Steve Bruce famously scored two late goals against Sheffield Wednesday in the first Premier League season which saw Brian Kidd drop to his knees and Alex Ferguson do his baby-shuffle celebration in one of the Premier League's most iconic moments. There were no trophies decided that day and Bruce's goals only kept United one point ahead of Aston Villa with six games to play, but none of the home support in what was a crowd of just over 40,000 on that day in April 1993 seemed to care about the previous 98 minutes of toil. Given they hadn't won a league for 25 years, nor should they have. In the cold light of the days after that win against Wednesday, Ferguson probably analysed why United struggled for so long just as Wenger probably will over Arsenal's game against Wigan. But, in the moment, players and supporters deserve a release. We've been here before with Arsenal, who had the temerity to be happy at qualifying for the sport's best club competition last season in what was an achievement if not a trophy. That they did it with eight wins and two draws in their final 10 games was more worthy of celebration than apology. If Everton finish fourth they'll deservedly be delighted, despite not having to make any space in their trophy room, while Fulham scrambling their way to 17th won't have their supporters, players or staff complaining that their expectations before the season were higher than that. From failing to sign a striker in January, to why they seem to get so many injuries and on to their performances in big games, there are several legitimate reasons for criticising Arsenal's season. But, from a former player like Keane who won enough semi-finals to know the relief that such victories bring, it smacked of little more than a cheap shot.   Tweets of the week Monday Joey Barton (@Joey7Barton) Comes to something when even I feel sorry for 5under1and tonight. Look doomed... (seconds later) Sorry I've just realised that sorry feeling was wind. Back to not really caring about 5under1and. Order restored?? – The ex-Newcastle midfielder briefly laments Sunderland's 5-1 hammering against Tottenham. Tuesday Sylvain Distin (@sylvaind15tin) I Loooooove it when journalist or people try to twist my words... – We're going to take the Everton defender at face value on this one. Wednesday Antonio Valencia (@7AntoV) We apologize to all fans of manchester not get the goal today. – United did get the goal, the problem was 22 seconds later they conceded one. Thursday Fitz Hall @aslfitzhall Hummer for sale fully loaded & more! Hit me up if your interested, very reasonable price! Please RT – It's a measure of how much footballers earn that the man nicknamed 'One Size' (think about it) has a Hummer to sell. Friday Sergio Aguero @aguerosergiokun Benjamin's first training day! Dad's elated!! ... – The son of the Manchester City striker and grandson of Diego Maradona, unsurprisingly, can strike the ball quite well. Saturday Mesut Ozil (@MesutOzil1088) Arsenal Never gives up. Thanks Per, Thanks guys. You made my Day. – The German is grateful to his team-mate and compatriot for giving him something to look forward to before the end of the season. Sunday Yossi Benayoun (@YossiBenayoun15) Liverpool to win the league, Chelsea to win the champions league, arsenal to win the FA cup, QPR back to the premier league perfect year for me – The Israeli presumably ran out of space to wish West Ham well.   The question nobody asked How many teams have scored more Premier League goals than Newcastle at St James's Park in 2014? On Saturday, Newcastle lost again, this time to Stoke, and for the 10th time out of the 14 games they have played in 2014, they failed to score. Their best performance came in a 4-1 victory away to Hull City; however, this was marred by Alan Pardew's head-butt on David Meyler which, understandably, took most of the attention. St James' Park has traditionally been a difficult place to go. However, in the seven league games they have played there in 2014, the Magpies have managed just two goals which, thankfully for Pardew, came in 1-0 wins against Aston Villa and Crystal Palace. This, however, means they are only the fourth top scorers on their home patch this year – that honour goes to Manchester United, who struck four without reply at the beginning of the month. Newcastle have two home games remaining to overhaul them, but they must first get by Sunderland, who scored three times in a 3-0 win at St James' Park in February and Everton, who achieved the same score in March. Newcastle's are level with Manchester City's tally of two.   Bet you should have done Cardiff to beat Southampton, 11/2 For most of this season you wouldn't have put a bet on Cardiff with somebody else's money but, at this time of the season, the balance for how much one team needs the victory over the other can prove crucial. Cardiff knew that defeat at St Mary's would almost certainly see them relegated – and even in victory they remain three points off safety – while the home side sat comfortably in mid-table. Cardiff's need, it seems, proved decisive.   Soccer on TV Today Udinese v Juventus, Serie A, BT Sport 1, 7.45pm; Reading v Leicester City, Championship, Sky Sports 1, 8.07pm Tomorrow Borussia Dortmund v Wolfsburg, German Cup, BT Sport 2, 7.30pm; Arsenal v West Ham, Premier League, Sky Sports 1, 7.45pm Wednesday Bayern Munich v Kaiserslautern, German Cup, BT Sport 2, 7.30pm; Real Madrid v Barcelona, Copa del Rey final, Sky Sports 1, 8.30pm Thursday Eintracht Frankfurt v Hannover, Bundesliga, BT Sport 2, 7.30pm Friday Alfreton Town v Grimsby Town, Conference, BT Sport 1, 3.00pm; Blackpool v Burnley, Championship, Sky Sports 1, 5.15pm; Doncaster Rovers v Derby County, Championship, Sky Sports 1, 7.30pm; Inverness CT v Aberdeen, Scottish Premiership, BT Sport 1, 7.45pm Saturday Leicester City v QPR, Championship, Sky Sports 1, 12.15pm; Tottenham Hotspur v Fulham, Premier League, BT Sport 1, 12.45pm; Motherwell v Celtic, Scottish Premiership, Sky Sports TBC, 12.45pm; Hull City v Arsenal, Premier League, Sky Sports 1, 5.30pm; Juventus v Bologna, Serie A, BT Sport 2, 5.30pm; Hamburg v Wolfsburg, Bundesliga, BT Sport 1, 5.30pm; Atletico Madrid v Elche, La Liga, Sky Sports 3, 7.00pm; PSG v Lyon, French Cup final, BT Sport 1, 7.45pm; Fiorentina v Roma, Serie A, BT Sport 2, 8.00pm Sunday Norwich City v Liverpool, Premier League, Sky Sports 1, 12.00pm; Chelsea v Sunderland, Premier League, Sky Sports 1, 2.05pm; Nuremberg v Bayer Leverkusen, Bundesliga, ESPN, 2.30pm; Everton v Man Utd, Premier League, Sky Sports 1, 4.10pm; Stuttgart v Schalke, Bundesliga, BT Sport 1, 4.30pm; Sevilla v Granada, La Liga, Sky Sports 1, 6.00pm; Real Sociedad v Espanyol, La Liga, Sky Sports 1, 8.00pm Indo Sport 
