sport football
{  
    December 07 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/sport/other-sports/our-man-rob-ruminates-on-whats-a-sport-and-whats-just-a-game-and-says-maybe-its-best-to-just-let-tv-decide-sky-sports-test-could-put-poker-into-the-olympics-26974483.html }
One of the more idiotic suggestions I heard this week was that poker be admitted as an Olympic sport. Card-sharp Tony Guoga (aka 'Tony G'), perhaps still a bit cloudy after winning more than e400,000 in the recent Singapore leg of the Asian Poker Tour, has suggested poker should be an Olympic sport because it ticks all the right boxes. Interviewed by the BBC last weekend, Guoga said poker required strong concentration, alertness and energy, intense gamesmanship and - I paraphrase here Ñ big cojones. That's it then. Case closed. Next stop Beijing. But hold on Ñ or should that be hold 'em Ñ a minute. I don't know about you, but the thought of a guy who does his training in all-night sessions at a casino flying the flag for my country just doesn't gel. I want to know my athletes have sweated it for four years out over countless training sessions. I want them to have battled through pain and injuries to be in peak physical condition. I want them to have earned the support I give them while I relax in front of my pub's big screen. I certainly do not want them to have prepared in an environment where the only risk of physical damage is a felt burn on the fingertips from sweeping up chips too quickly, or pasty skin from an underexposure to natural sunlight. According to the International Olympic Committee, a game or sport must be practiced by men in at least 75 countries and on four continents and by women in at least 40 countries and on three continents to qualify for the Olympics. In addition they have to be governed by an international federation before the IOC will grant official Olympic status. The federation must then file an application to become a demonstration sport. After that, the sport may file another application to officially become an Olympic sport. What the IOC doesn't say, however, is what exactly is classed as a 'sport'. Guoga, who openly admits to being one of poker's more renowned trash-talkers, probably had his tongue planted fimly in his cheek. Everyone knows poker isn't even a sport. But it is a game, and what's the difference? You have a game of chess, but that isn't a sport. You have a game of golf but that is a sport. Running isn't a game, but it is a sport. Synchronised swimming is somehow in the Olympics, but nobody seems to know quite what that is. Games are for kids. Games are trivial, only mildly competitive, something you do for fun, in the back yard, with your sister. Sports, on the other hand, are serious business. They're the stuff of championships, gold medals, newspaper back pages and multi-million euro endorsement deals. Even the dictionary is no help here, defining a sport as 'an activity involving physical exertion and skill that is governed by a set of rules or customs and often undertaken competitively'. So that's it. Apply the sweat test, write a rule book, run a competition now and again and you've got yourself a sport. But what about those activities designed for Ñ how do I put this subtly Ñ the less athletic. Those sports where physical exertion is not so essential Ñ such as shooting, darts, archery or snooker. All sports in my book, but not according to Mr Oxford English Concise. And how about sports where there are no formal rules Ñ and I don't mean Combat Zone Wrestling, whose motto is 'No rules, No limits'. How about activities where blazered boffins don't sit around a committee room over cognac and cigars to develop a set of offical laws? I haven't seen a set of the Royal and Ancient Rules of Rockclimbing, or the International Laws of Running lately. Sports, both of them, but no need for a rules book. So, with no way of really telling the diffference between a sport (which is cool), a game (which is so-so) and a pastime (which sounds like something your gran does), I suggest we apply a new definition, one that is suitable for the hi-tech global village we now all live in. It's a concept that is simple, caters for new and emerging endeavours, and ensures that all fields of activity, no matter humble, find their proper place in the pecking order. Put simply, it's the Sky Sports test. It relies upon ratings and the Sky Sports programmers to decide what are the world's most popular sports and it also solves the problem of who gets to go to the Olympics. Only the most popular sports get to go on Sky Sports 1 and 2. They're your A-listers. Your Tomkats, Brad and Angelinas, Posh and Becks-type activities. Our new Olympic sports. The stuff on Sky Sports 3 is a bit more niche. Think bowls, cricket and carp fishing. They're your Danny DeVito, Eddie Murphy-type sports. No Oympics for them. But hang on. What's this. Wednesday December 6, SKY SPORTS ONE. 'Poker Million'. On at 10.30 a.m., again at 2 p.m. and again at 1 a.m. the next day. After football, the Sky Sports test now makes poker the world's second most popular sport. Tony G will be getting himself fitted for his national team tracksuit as we speak! 
