sport football
{  
    January 24 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/sport/other-sports/bringing-top-sporting-facilities-to-fingal-is-an-investment-in-youth-27763885.html }
IT has long been said that sport can act as the silver bullet when it comes to solving the ills of modern society and the negative aspects of large urban areas such as crime, substance abuse and anti-social behaviour.Put the facilities in place for young people and you provide them with a choice of paths in life is a mantra well worn by politicians. Of course they IT has long been said that sport can act as the silver bullet when it comes to solving the ills of modern society and the negative aspects of large urban areas such as crime, substance abuse and anti-social behaviour. ‘Put the facilities in place for young people and you provide them with a choice of paths in life’ is a mantra well worn by politicians. Of course they are right and the importance of sport within our society is becoming recognised more and more by our governing bodies. Making sure sport forms part of an overall balanced life in Fingal is now a key priority of the local council who are investing more money and resources in the promotion and development of all sports than ever before. Fingal as an area is probably unique in Ireland as it is home to the largest amount of organised sporting bodies who provide facilities at the highest level. Both the Irish soccer team and Irish Cricket Union have top class International training facilities in the area whilst the number of affiliated bodies to all the various sporting codes is higher here than anywhere else. Such statistics are reflective of the huge population base in the particular catchment area as well as its strategic location. But just because something is the norm does not mean it will stay that way forever and Fingal County Council are keen to ensure that the structures are in place to cater for the planned population explosion. From rugby to soccer, GAA to tennis, cricket to golf the council are becoming involved in every aspect of the sporting world so that the children of the area have the opportunity to get involved in as many possible forms of physical activity as possible. Indeed when you list out the number of sporting facilities available within the Fingal area it is easy to take for granted the range of sporting clubs on offer on your doorstep. Take a drive to most towns around the country and the height of what is available is the local GAA and soccer club. But prudent investment by the various sporting unions has ensured a great mix of sporting fields on offer in Fingal. Making sure that as many kids as possible get a chance to experience the choice of what is on offer is the job of David McNally who is the County Sports Officer for Fingal County Council. McNally attended the recent Fingal Independent/Clarion Hotel Sportstar awards ceremony where over a dozen different sporting codes were represented. That figure in itself is a good indicator as to the choice of sports on offer in Fingal and McNally is keen for the County Council to play its part in promoting the virtues of sport as part of peoples lives. ‘I suppose we are very lucky in Fingal to have such a great mix of sporting clubs available to us. We would be very unique in this part of the country as regards the huge part the sport of cricket plays in the community and that adds greatly to our region. We are now looking at putting in place a part time cricket development officer with the assistance of the ICU and the Leinster branch. ‘We are becoming more and more active in the different sporting codes in the region. Our main focus is working on the promotion aspect of sport and working with the official bodies in putting development officers in place in the different areas of Fingal. ‘We have three football community development officers employed and we also have a rugby development officer which is funded 50/50 with the IRFU,’ explained McNally. In a move that is also breaking new ground the council has just employed in conjunction with Tennis Ireland a part time tennis development officer in the community. Some of the major priority programmes which McNally and his team are working on at present include schemes such as ‘Women in Sport’ as well as focussing on the disadvantaged and ethnic minority groups in order to make sport as accessible to as many as possible. Of course with as such a large amount of sporting groups in action in Fingal there is a good chance that some of them are slipping through the net and not availing of the various support networks which exist. In response to this McNally is putting in place an audit later in the year to ascertain the full list of sporting clubs and facilities available in Fingal so they can base their future sporting strategy around this. The Community Sports Department has been very busy over the past 12 months with many new structures being put in place and the first Sports Development Forum was held last year. The event was the first time many officers working in grassroots sports development met under one roof. Officers also attended from Youth services, Special Olympics, Irish Wheelchair Association Sports, Irish Sports Council, Health Services Executive, and the County Dublin VEC. According to McNally knowing that so many sportstars are living in the Fingal region makes his job a hell of a lot easier. ‘Well we are very lucky to have so many prominent Irish sporting stars living in the Fingal area and knowing that they are around means that I can call on them to help promote their various sports. Kids need role models to look up to and thankfully we have a lot of good examples of these within our county,’ concluded McNally. 
