sport football
{ John Greene 
    May 26 2013 03:06 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/john-greene-federation-highlights-benefits-of-unity-29297325.html }
There was a lot one could take away from the conference organised by the Federation of Irish Sport in Dublin last week, but the Department of Sport and the Irish Sports Council officials present could not but have been impressed with what they saw and heard. Because it was clear that Irish sport is very open to change, to learning from those sports showing dramatic improvement in how they go about their business. The federation, which was established 11 years ago, has grown enormously, both in membership and in confidence, so that it is now more of an effective voice for sport in Ireland. This can be seen in the Sport Matters campaign the Federation ran in an effort to demonstrate to the government the folly of reductions in the sport budget, and in the manner in which it has brought the smaller organisations onto the podium with the 'big three' – the GAA, FAI and IRFU – to present a unified face. The federation is the representative association for the national governing bodies and other non-profit organisations promoting sport or physical activity, and 70 NGBs and 28 local sports partnerships are now members. The biggest enemy to sport often comes from within. Traditionally, sporting bodies plough a lone furrow. This is not something exclusive to Ireland, far from it in fact, and the solution sounds very simple: all they have to do is work together. But of course this is not as easy as it sounds. Sports are competing for resources at every level, and the minority sports have to compete even harder. Every sport needs three basic things to survive and thrive: competitors, volunteers and money, and in a small country like Ireland there is only a finite amount of all three to go around. Which is why the suggestion that sports should work together might sound as ridiculous as the notion of turkeys voting for Christmas. But it does actually make sense, which is what sporting leaders heard last week. Keith Mills, the man who spearheaded London's Olympic bid and then played a central role in having the city's venues ready in time, dwelled on this subject during his keynote speech to the conference. His idea essentially is that sports should join together to target government funding and private sponsorship; the point being that instead of competing for slices of a small cake, sports could share a much bigger cake through greater cohesion. What the federation, under CEO Sarah O'Connor and an astute board, is showing is that Irish sport wants to move forward. And in the absence of a national strategy, which is as lamentable as it is damaging to the national well-being, sports will mostly have to do it for themselves. Sadly, some will be left behind, but for the most part the majority of Irish sporting organisations have woken up, or are waking up, to the new reality. Which is that there is a better way of doing things. The federation has just produced a strategic plan to take it and its members up to 2017. It is an ambitious plan, but the track record of the federation makes it entirely attainable. Central to its ambitions by the time 2017 rolls around is that it wants to be seen as the go-to organisation by government on all issues that impact on sport; it wants an input into national sports policy; it wants to be recognised as the voice of Irish sport, and also as a highly effective representative for its members. The production of this plan means that the way forward for Irish sport has received another significant boost as it follows on from the Irish Sports Council's overhaul of its high-performance system and the continued progress at the National Sports Campus, which this week sees the official opening of Irish Sport HQ – the new home for many of our NGBs – by An Taoiseach Enda Kenny. So, this three-pronged approach is effectively Ireland's national sports strategy, that is improving and representing the sports and how they are governed and perceived, and the creation of a recognisable headquarters for Irish sport. The sad thing is that it would not take much political imagination to put all this together, rope in the other central government departments – finance, health and education – and produce a plan that could accomplish a hell of a lot for a small country. One well thought-out, modestly resourced and intelligent blueprint could heighten Ireland's international sporting prowess, improve the nation's health and reduce our grossly inflated health bill and change the orientation of the population from predominantly sedentary to predominantly active. When Irish cricketers dismiss a dramatic and highly credible tie with Pakistan as being a lost opportunity, it shows just how far the sport here has travelled in a very short space of time. It wasn't as if Ireland's disappointment was caused by letting certain victory slip in Clontarf last Thursday, or that they were clinging on in the closing overs, because in football terms William Porterfield's side were behind for most of the game only to stage a brilliant comeback which nicely tees up today's second game at the same venue. Ireland's disappointment was caused by the team's own expectations and its belief that it is capable of beating any opposition in world cricket right now, regardless of status. Pakistan are sixth in the International Cricket Council's one-day rankings, five places ahead of Ireland. Even if the cricket world might see those five places as a gaping chasm that cannot be bridged, Cricket Ireland and its top players take a different view. For Kevin O'Brien and his team-mates, this is the kind of company they believe they belong in on a permanent basis. "We are not out to tie games, and that is why it feels like a loss, to be honest," said O'Brien after the game. O'Brien's match-saving innings – after Paul Stirling's brilliant 103 had started the fightback – drew comparisons afterwards with his performance against England in Bangalore two years ago. One wonders, though, what the watching ICC representatives made of it all. jgreene@independent.ie Irish Independent 
