sport football
{  
    July 27 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27363894.html }
FIRIES played Tarbert in Rd 9 of the Co league and lost on a score of 1-8, to 1-10 and so remain remain in Div 4 of the Co league. Full report in sports section, under Co league. FIRIES played Tarbert in Rd 9 of the Co league and lost on a score of 1-8, to 1-10 and so remain remain in Div 4 of the Co league. Full report in sports section, under Co league. LOTTO: Numbers 1, 15, 17. No winner. ?30 winners, Una Kelliher, Roxboro, Mike O’Sullivan, Batterfield, Noel Kenny, Rusheen, Sheila Martin, Caherdean, Jenny Healy, Killarney. Next weeks jackpot ?2,700 in P Sheahans, Firies. RESULTS: The u15 team beat Na Gael and are playing Listowel in the semi final to night. The u16s had an easy win over Fossa are also in the semi finals. The minors beat Glenflesk and are playing Scart on Friday. BALLYHAR DYNAMOS AFC LOTTO: The numbers drawn on Monday, July 18, were 3, 6, 12, 23. No winner. The ?25 winners were Tim Fitzgerald, Goulane, Farranfore, Lisa O’Meara, Ballyhar, Bridie Coffey c/o Ger Coffey, Michael Callaghan, Farranfore and Sylvester O’Sullivan, Firies. Next draw on Tuesday, August 2 at the Shanty Bar, for a jackpot of ?4,900. LADIES FOOTBALL: Well done to our u12s. They beat Churchill by 3-13 to 3-8. Best of luck to Maura O’Connor, who is playing with the Cailino Oga on Aug 6. GOLF SOCIETY: Next outing on August 3 at Ross Golf Course, 10 hole scramble. Draw will be made at 6pm. Dont be late. Barbecue afterwards. Contact committee member before Monday, August 1. DEATH: Sympathy is extended to the family, relatives and friends of Mrs Nora Kennington, nee Moriarty, Upper Oakpark, Tralee, and formerly of Rossmore. SPORTS: The ACs annual open sports will take place at Keel Sportsfield on Bank Holiday Monday,August 1 at 5pm. Full programme including crawling and wheelbarrow races. ATHLETICS: Congrats to James Nagle, who won the Irish junior 35 lbs over the bar at Santry on Saturday. James already won the throw for distance. Well done also to Arthur Fitzgerald, who won the Meelin 4 mile road race and his sister Maura, who won the ladies junior race. Shane Buckley and Padraig Brosnan won the shot team, and Carmel Kate Kelleher and Rhianne Gallagher won the ball throw at the Munster B c’ships in Castleisland. Well done to all who took part. Best of luck to Katie O’Leary and the Kerry relay team in Tullamore at the weekend. WHIST: Prizewinners at the Marian Hall, Firies on July 13, Kate O’Sullivan, Eileen O’Riordan, Mary Griffin, Frank Brennan, Pat Herlihy, Nora Kissane, Maureen Brennan, Bridie Kerrisk, Kitty O’Reilly, Peggy Corcoran, Ellen O’Connor. Raffle, Eileen Fitzgerald, Mary B O’Sullivan, Mary O’Shea, Frances Burke, Nora M O’Leary, Pat Herlihy. 31: Results from Farranfore, raffle, Tony Marshall, Dode Moriarty, Tim Moriarty, Mary B O’Sullivan, Josephine Coffey. Cards, 1st Mike Heaphy and Joan Kenny, 2nd Ted Horgan and John O’Shea, ladies Peg Brosnan and Mary Moriarty. Gents Dan Daly and Ned Scott, Denis and Denis O’Leary. Mixed Dan Daly and Anne Walsh. Spots Tim Moriarty, and Donie Doherty, Dode Moriarty and Jeffry Moriarty, Mary and Peg Kissane. WEDDING: Congrats to the following who were married recently, Robert Cremin, Ballough to Sheila Kelliher, Cork, Bronagh Bruton, Mill Road to Sean Neish, Edenburgh, Scotland. SYMPATHY: Is extended to the O’Leary, Cronin and O’Donoghue families on the death of their sister Mrs Breen, Gneeveguilla. RECOVERY: Best wishes are extended to former footballer and current trainer, James Cahill for a speedy recovery from a recent illness and to our current senior player, Sean Moynihan, who is recovering from knee surgery. TICKETS: Club members who may wish to be included in the draw for tickets for the All Ireland football qualifier on August 7 are advised to contact club Secretaries, Assumpta O’Donoghue, 06432159 or Michael Cronin 06432844 as early as possible. GAELIC TELECOM: Spa GAA club have now enlisted with the recently launched Gaelic Telecom which as well as offering keener rates for customers also has the potential to benefit new local GAA club financially. For full details contact club officers. CO JUNIOR LEAGUE FINAL: Austin Stacks 1-9 v Spa 0-8. Full report in sports section. KERRY MINORS: Best of luck to Michael O’Donoghue, and Shane Lynch and all the Kerry minor team, in their All Ireland quarter final v Laois on Monday next. RESULTS: Minor E Kerry league, Spas understrength minor side were well beaten 4-12 to 0-4, in their first E Kerry league game. U16 Co league, Ballymac 2-12, Spa 0-9. U15 Co c’ship, semi final, Milltown 4-10, Spa 2-5. Played in Killorglin, Spa trailed at the break, 2-3 to 1-4. Two pts still separated the sides entering the final quarter. Milltown added 2-3 to their tally, while Spa failed to score in this period. Team G Kearney, N O’Connell, L Bergin, P O’Donoghue, C O’Callaghan, M Hussey, D Murphy, C Tobin, F Cronin, D O’Sullivan, B Kelliher, D Cahill, R Carroll, A O’Sullivan, B Lynch. SENIOR CO LEAGUE: Spa 2-14, v St Pats 2-13. Full report in sports section, under Co league round up. FIXTURES: O’Donoghue Cup, Spa v Fossa in Fossa on Thursday, August 11 at 7.30pm. Minor E Kerry league, Spa away to Kilcummin this Thursday, July 28 at 7.30pm, and v Currow in Spa on Thursday, August 4. U16 Co league, Spa v Ardfert in Spa, Monday next, August 1 at 7.30pm. U14 Spa v Kenmare in Kenmare tonight, Wednesday, July 27, at 7.30pm, in the E Kerry quarter final. U13 Spa v Legion in Spa, Sunday next at 7pm in the E Kerry league. GAA Lotto 23/7/05 - Jackpot 3,900.00 - 8/9/11/15 no winner. Consolation prize 40.00-John & Kate O'sullivan-Derryleigh, Jim Brady-USA, Mary Keating-Caherciveen, Jack Breen-Kelly's Cross. Next Draw Saturday 30/7/05 at the Restler's Inn-Jackpot 4,000.00. ST MARY’S U12s retained their unbeaten South Kerry record when they comfortably overcame Waterville by 14 points in Cahersiveen on Thursday evening last. The visitors opened the scoring inside the first two minutes but when the Mary’s found the target scores were easy to come by with Gavin Moran (2) and William Hickey (2) adding 4 points between them before Waterville pulled away with a goal and a point after 9 minutes. This was to be the closest Waterville were going to get to victory in the game as William Hickey 0-1, Conor O’Shea 0-2, Liam Stapleton 0-1 and Megan O’Connell chipped in with 3 punched points before the break to settle to half time score at St. Mary’s 1-10 Waterville 1-02. Waterville opened the second half the brighter when they goaled second time of asking after Conor O’Shea (filling in for the injured Micheal O’Shea) pulled off a fine save firstly. Captain Kieran O’Driscoll equalled two minutes later when he came out on top after a one on one with the visitors goalie. William Hickey added his 4th and 5th points soon afterwards after Denis Daly and Gavin Moran respectively assisted him. Kieran O’Driscoll and Conor O’Shea (Boherbue) both added points before O’Driscoll rounded off the game with a goal to leave the final score at St. Mary’s 3-14 Waterville 2-03. St Mary’s Team and Scorers: Conor O’Shea (Rocky Road), Daragh Stack, Kieran O’Driscoll (2-0), Sean O’Shea, Megan O’Connell (0-3), Liam Stapleton (0-1), Conor O’Shea (Boherbue) (0-3), William Hickey (1-5), Gavin Moran. Subs: Denis Daly, Jonathan Coffey, Ronan McCarthy. 22/07/05 - County U-16 League Round 4 St. Mary’s 1-4 v 2-10 Templenoe / Tousist / Kilgarvan at Cahersiveen. After both sides throwing away scoring chances in the opening minutes the visitors were first to score after 10 minutes of continued pressure on the Mary’s defence, Jason O’Shea got the first of the 3 goals in the game in the following attack. Paul O’Donoghue then finally got the Mary’s off the mark from 45m placed kick after a foul on corner forward Diarmuid Nolan. Mike T O’Sullivan then beat 3 Mary’s defenders and when he found himself 1 on 1 he made no mistake in gaoling. St. Mary’s brought some respectability into the score before half time when Paul O’Donoghue sent two high balls in to the full forward line in the space of 3 minutes firstly Conor Quirke got a fist to the ball and a goal was the result while Shane Horgan was on the end of the other and he pointed to leave the half time score at St. Mary’s 1-2 Temp / Tous / Kil 2-2. Paul O’Donoghue got the second half under way with a 25m free but this was to no avail when Mike O’Sullivan added 4 points and Patrick Palmer 2 points without any trouble as the Mary’s defence failed to stop any attack before O’Donoghue pointed from 30m before the visitors clocked up 3 more points without reply to leave the final score St. Mary’s 1-4 Temp / Tousist / Kilgarvan 2-10. St. Mary’s best performers on the night were few and far between but Shane Horgan, Steven O’Sullivan, Ian Casey and Paul O’Donoghue. St. Mary’s Team and Scorers: Riche Sheehan, Dermot O’Sullivan, Shane Horgan (0-1), Steven O’Sullivan, Colm O’Shea, Conor O’Shea, Ian Casey, Anthony Hutchinson, Paul O’Donoghue (0-3,3f), Conor Quirke (1-0), Colin Walsh, Daniel Dennehy, Paudie Sugrue, Sean Cournane, Diarmuid Nolan. Sub: Declan Keating. 20/07/05 - South Kerry Minor League Round 3 St. Mary’s 1-14 v 3-10 Valentia at Valentia. Paul O’Donoghue opened the scoring in this encounter after Anthony Hutchinson won TJ Gilligan’s kick out after 5 minutes, 4 minutes later after a Vinny Moriarty quick free found Mark McGillicuddy he set Sean Cournane up for a point to double the Mary’s advantage. Paul O’Donoghue added another great point before Vinny Moriarty brought the score to 0-4 v 0-0. Cournane was on target again after O’Donoghue hit the upright he was quickest to react to bring it to 5 points with out reply before Brian O’Connor finally got the Islanders off the mark after leaving his marker for dead. Cournane added his 3rd point from his own 21m free before Muris O’Sullivan shot on goal was diverted over the bar by Shane Horgan in the Mary’s goal. O’Donoghue pointed another free before O’Sullivan got through on gaol again but punishing to full effect this time with a goal, with this being a blow for the Mary’s O’Sullivan received a high ball a few seconds later and when he made the catch and turned Valentia took the lead with a well taken goal. Vinny Moriarty and Colin Walsh both added points before the break to leave the half time score at St. Mary’s 0-09, Valentia 1-3 a draw. Muris O’Sullivan and Vinny Moriarty exchanged points before Mark Lynch and O’Sullivan were on target for Valentia. Colin Walsh added his second point, while Cathal O’Connell found O’Donoghue with a perfect ball who supplemented the pass with a point. Alan Curran (0-2), Mark McGillicuddy and Sean Cournane exchanged points before St. Mary’s received a major blow when they were hit with a counter attack and Muris O’Sullivan hit the net for his hatrick to leave a goal between the sides in favour of the home side, but as the Mary’s looked dead and buried when an O’Donoghue 45 dropped short Sean Cournane pounced to goal to bring the game level with two minutes remaining. With time ticking Valentia seemed to be the stronger but when the Mary’s gave away two very handy frees Mark Lynch punished to give the victory to the home side by 2 points. St. Mary’s must have felt robbed but minus 3 or 4 influential starting players it was hard to keep up with the Islanders ease to get goals. The visitors best players on the night were Mark McGillicuddy, Micheal O’Shea, Vinny Moriarty, Paul O’Donoghue and Sean Cournane, while Muris O’Sullivan, Mark Lynches frees and Ryan Walsh were their stars. St. Mary’s Team and Scorers: Shane Horgan, Colm Cournane, Mark McGillicuddy (0-1), Micheal O’Shea, Conor O’Shea, Vinny Moriarty (0-3), Cathal O’Connell, Anthony Hutchinson, Kieran O’Sullivan, Paul O’Donoghue (0-4), Sean Cournane (1-4). Sub: Colin Walsh (0-2). 24/07/05 - County Senior Football League Div 1 Round 9 St. Mary’s 0-06 v 2-18 Dr. Crokes at Killarney. St. Mary’s were heavily defeated by Dr. Crokes on Sunday last in Lewis Road, Dr. Crokes with Eoin Brosnan and David Moloney inspiring the victory seemed to be a different class above a St. Mary’s side that saw the introduction of Maurice Fitzgerald for the year. Eoin Brosnan and substitute Shane Doolin got the goals for the home side while the Mary’s points came from Maurice Fitzgerald (0-2,2f), Adam Quirke, Gearoid O’Driscoll, Daniel O’Sullivan and Sean O’Brien. St. Mary’s Team and Scorers: Darren Corcoran, Mike T O’Connor, John M Clifford, Gearoid O’Driscoll (0-1), Steven Curran, Ml Pat O’Donoghue, Diarmuid Walsh, Liam Corcoran, Niall O’Driscoll, Ray Keane, Maurice Fitzgerald (0-2,2f), Adam Quirke (0-1), Austin Constable, Rory Keating, Daniel O’Sullivan (0-1). Subs: Sean O’Brien (0-1) and Vinny Moriarty. On Friday, St Michael’s / Foilmore captured the county junior football league Division 4 title for the first time when defeating Ballydonoghue on the scoreline of 1-14 to 0-7. It was a brilliant team performance and we led all the way through the game played in perfect conditions in Cromane. The team played some excellent football at times and the forwards were showing well for the ball especially Carl O’Connell who gave a man of the match performance. Credit must go to the management team of Tommy Harty, Liam O’Sullivan and Johnny Keating who had this team well prepared. Team: Tommy Harty, Joe Harty, Roger Harty, Mike Shea, William Cronin, Micheal Galvin, Mark Galvin, Padraig King, Alan Keating, Rossa O’Sullivan, Fergal O’Connor, Niall Galvin, Johnny Keating, Liam O’Sullivan, Carl O’Connell, John Galvin, Alan Fitzgerald, Pierce Barry, Pierce Kirby, Maurice Murphy, Darren O’Shea, Tony Goggin. Special thanks to Kieran Cronin who helped out with the team. On Saturday evening, Waterville and St Michael’s / Foilmore drew in the county senior football league on the score of Waterville 1-9, St Michael’s / Foilmore 2-6. Kiddies Paradise - Cahersiveen Community Pre-School tel : 066 947 3760, is having a drop-in summer camp service from 30th June (Thursday) to 28th August (Friday) 2005. This service is open from 9.30 am to 3 pm and caters for children aged 2 years and 8 months and toilet trained up to and including 5 year olds. You can avail of this service for a max of three and a half hours during the open times. WEDDING: Congrats to Sean Kelliher, Strands End, and Gerardette O’Sullivan, Killaboona, Emlaghmore, who were married in the Church of the Sacred Heart, St Finians Bay, recently. Sean is elder son of Kieran and Catherine Kelliher. RURAL SOCIAL SCHEME: This scheme is being administered by the S Kerry Dev Partnership. If any individual community or voluntary groups wish to have work undertaken under this scheme in the following areas such as maintenance of sporting facilities, GAA clubs, rowing clubs, etc. Administration for voluntary groups, walkways and scenic trails, social care and care of elderly eg cutting hedges, trees and small handy jobs. Environmental work or any other areas or work can be discussed. Please contact Brendan Donoghue, RSS, Supervisor, The Old Barracks, Bridge St, Cahersiveen. Tel 066 9472724. GAELIC TELECOM: Templenoe GAA Club would like to thank all those who have already subscribed to Gaelic Telecom, a fixed line telephone Co, are offering our members the chance of availing of cheaper telephone costs, a chance to contribute and support our club at no extra expense to them selves. CASUAL WEAR: Anyone interested in purchasing official club polo shirts or tops which include the club crest can contact Eddie O’Sullivan or Timmy Clifford or any club officer. Each garment cost ?30 approx. FIXTURES: Novice Shield, Templenoe v Derrynane in Derrynane, Friday, July 29 at 7.30pm. CO LEAGUE: Templenoe v Dr Crokes B in Templenoe, Saturday, July 30 at 7.30pm. Good luck to the Kerry minors who play Laois in the quarter finals this weekend. Well done to the Kerry S u16 team, that beat Limerick in Askeaton to win Munster u16 Inter Co c’ship last Saturday week, Daniel O’Connor was on the panel. In the Co u16 league Templenoe/Kilgarvan/Tuosist defeated St Marys, Cahersiveen on Friday evening last. The u15 team lost away to Listowel Emmets in the Co u15 c’ship. CO LEAGUE: Ballylongford 2-11, Templenoe 0-4. Bally proved too strong for Templenoe last Saturday evening. The home side led from the start, and adapted better to the slippery underfoot conditions. Templenoe batted away, but a goal just after half time put the home team a point ahead, and Templenoe were unable to recover. Before the game started, a minutes silence was observed as a mark of respect to former Templenoe player, officer, and GAA stalwart, Johnny O’Sullivan Myles RIP, who passed away last week. Team A Sheehan, O Sheehy, T Granville, B O’Neill, T O’Sullivan, T Nash, J Sheehan, I Clifford, J K O’Sullivan, B Clifford, P O’Sullivan, J Foley J J O’Sullivan, F O’Sullivan capt, P Palmer 0-4. Sub D Clifford, P Doyle, D O’Connor, T O’Sullivan, and P O’Mahony. SNEEM BLITZ: A very enjoyable blitz was held in Sneem for the u10 and u12 footballers of Kenmare, Templenoe, Derrynane and Sneem. Templenoe were victorious in both u10 and u12 on Saturday last. The u16 team of St Marys was, P Healy, S O’Shea, P O’Connell, D Quinn, K O’Sullivan, J Sheehan, C Godfrey, P Palmer, D O’Connor, J O’Shea, A Breen, D Cahalane, T Doyle, M T O’Sullivan, K O’Sullivan. Subs A J Christian, M Hallisey, B Crowley, J O’Sullivan, and M Moriarty. Scorers, Mike Tim O’Sullivan, 1-04, P Palmer 0-4, J O’Shea 1-0, P Doyle and M Hallissey 0-1 each. TAKE a bow all concerned with “Joseph and the Amazing Technicolour Dreamcoat” at the Parish Hall recently. It was a collaboration of many and was a slick production. The production team included Sheila Freed, Maura Landers, Marjorie Broadhead, Noel Fursman, Lisa Argue and Kathlyn O’Brien. Outstanding in the cast were Joanna Barnes-Doyle as Narrator; Max Fursman as Joseph and Conor Viscardi as Pharoah. DEATHS: The deaths occurred in England of Sr Nora O’Sullivan, Bán Mór, Glentrasna; Peter Hartnett, Ardgroom and Sheila O’Sullivan, Shinnaugh. CO CHAMPIONSHIP: Seven Tuosist players were on the District team narrowly beaten by Laune Rangers. They were Steve O’Sullivan, Colm Brosnan, Flor O’Sullivan, Alan O’Sullivan, Liam O’Shea, JJ Brosnan and Marcus McNally. CO LEAGUE: Tuosist were away to Moyvane in round 9 of the county league on Saturday and were beaten 1-11 to 0-10. UNDER 16: Our under 16s joined with Templenoe and Kilgarvan are having a successful run in the Coiste na nÓg county league and have now qualified for the play-offs. The following players from our club are on the panel — Peter O’Sullivan, Brian Crowley, Brendan O’Shea, Ml O’Sullivan (Tim), Donal Quinn and Jason O’Shea. Ml O’Sullivan (Tim) was on the South Kerry team which defeated the hosts, Limerick in the special u-16 competition organised annually in Limerick. COLLECTION: A church gate collection for the local GAA club will be taken up at all masses this weekend. TICKETS: Club members who need tickets for Kerry’s quarter-final on August 7 should have placed their order with the secretary by this Sunday. VALENTIA Islander, Sean Lynch, currently on holidays from Muff in County Donegal thanks the management and crew of the Valentia car ferry for going out of their way on Thursday morning to make his journey from Knightstown to Renard point extra special in a foggy morning. VISITORS: The priest who celebrated Mass in Caol to a good attendance on a beautiful summer morning on Sunday is Fr John Lenihan, who replaced our own Fr John Shanahan, PP, currently in the USA. Fr Lenihan, a native of Keel is based in Florida and has a holiday home in Glenbeigh. He played senior football for a North Kerry team defeated by South Kerry in the Kerry county final of 1955 in which one of his opponentst was Mick O’Connell. On Sunday he visited the O’Connell household where he reminisced of football days of yore. “I always liked to concentrate on the ball, rather than the man,” said Fr Lenihan, who we are reliably informed was a fine fielder. Micksie Palmer, who was a back on the Kerry All-Ireland teams of 1953-1955, winning two in those years toured Valentia Island on Monday. On Monday evening in the company of Mick O’Connell he called in to have a chat with a number of construction workers in Knightstown. A native of Sneem, his father, PW Palmer, was a Fine Gael TD representing South Kerry for a number of years. He currently resides in Tralee and on a sunny Monday evening enjoyed the beauty of Valentia Island. He was a fine exponent of the art of high fielding in his day ad is very much at one with O’Connell in bemoaning the decline of such an art in today’s game. The late Bernie O’Connell of Knightstown was an ardent admirer of Palmer’s skill. VIR CC: Parents interested in using an after-school service in September, please return questionnaires that were sent out before the end of the school year. These returns can be made to the Childcare Centre. The annual church gate collection for the Valentia Island Resource and Child Care Centre will be held on the weekend of August 15 and 15. Parents interested in booking a place for their child at the Creche / Pre-School for the upcoming term, please contact Rosemarie 9476400 as places are limited. ROWING: The fourth regatta of the South and Mid Kerry rowing season took place at Ballykissane Pier on Sunday. While the number of first placings for Valentia boats was not as prolific as in previous races, it was nevertheless a good day for a number of boats. The under 14 boys coxed by Dermot Walsh and the senior ladies coxed by Leo Houlihan were the only two Valentia boats to finish first on Sunday, thus maintaining their one hundred per cent record of such a placing this season. The under 16 girls together with those under 18 finished second, while the under 16 and 18 boys were third in their respective categories. The Seine boat race saw cox Dermot Walsh and crew again finish second with the other Valentia boat coxed by Leo Houlihan in third place once again. Sneem in coming first maintained their one hundred per cent record for this season. 1, Sneem; 2, Dermot Walsh; 3, Leo Houlihan; 4, Templenoe; 5, Liberator; 6, Callinafercy; 7 Over-the-Water. On next Monday of course the annual Valentia regatta will take place. The first race takes place at 1.15pm with the Seine boat event commencing at 4pm. Dermot Walsh in his Seine boat, Island Dawn, will be hoping to repeat his first placing of last year in home waters. Who will ever forget his jumping into the water after last year’s victory. Leo Houlihan in his first year as a Seine boat coxwain would also dearly love to achieve a first time first especially in his own waters. However, this scribe is of the opinion that Sneem will once again be victorious. We look forward to a great day. TV FOR SALE: Tony Sheehan of Geokaun View in Caol has a good television for sale. MINORS: Valentia minors under the guidance of Michael Pampas Cahill and John Curran achieved a fine victory over St Mary’s of Cahersiveen in the South Kerry League. The sides were level at half time on a score of 2-3 each. The second half was very exciting and entertaining with Valentia winning on a score of 3-10 to 1-14. KERRY LORE: Maurice O’Keeffe who presents the programme “Kerry Lore” in Radio Kerry on Sunday nights is a brother of the former Kerry football great John O’Keeffe. He was in John Williams on Saturday and had in his possession copies of the recently published book “Recollections of 1916 and its Aftermath”, written by Maurice himself and his wife Joan. It comes at the reasonable price of ?15. On the coming Bank Holiday Monday morning Maurice will feature in his programme, John William O’Sullivan of Chapeltown and Diarmuid Ring of Knightstown. While in John Williams’, Maurice met local men Dan McCarthy of Cran and Denis Mort Murphy of Caoil. TICKETS: The Valentia Young Islanders secretary, Marie O’Neill tells us that the deadline for the order of tickets for Kerry’s quarter-final game is next Sunday, July 31. Also all outstanding payments for the recent Munster final tickets must now be paid. The Valentia GAA will hold a race night on Friday, August 19 in the Ring Lyne with tickets at ?15. ROYAL HOTEL: Sunday was the end of an era for Mike and Tess O’Sullivan and family, who spent their last day as proprietors of the Royal Hotel, Knightstown, having recently sold the property. They have been owners since October 1983. Good luck to them in the future. CRICKET: John Joe O’Sullivan from the Chapel Road in Caol, having spent many years in London has returned to Valentia on a full time basis. However, though very settled at home, John Joe very much regrets missing the opening Saturday of the cricket in Lords, London of the Ashes competition between England and Australia. John Joe, a fanatical dyed in the wool cricket fan who lived up the road from Lords is a particular admirer of Glen McGrath, the Australian bowler. COUNTY LEAGUE: The Valentia Young Islanders received vital breathing space from their relegation worries in the county league Division 3 with a win over a Seamus Moynihan captained Glenflesk at O’Connor Park, Valentia on a score of 2-6 to 1-10. GAA LOTTO: Numbers drawn were 8, 22, 24. No winner. Prizewinners: ?30 each — Eileen Corcoran, Lower Tennis; Mary Toss O’Connell, Lincoln; Marie Curran, Reenglass. The next jackpot will be ?1,000 and the next team is 1. John D O’Shea got the scoring started after five minutes with a free after a foul on midfielder Seamus O’Sullivan. The pace was fast and furious and in the eleventh minute St Michaels / Foilmore evened the scoring with a well-taken point from play, after a mistake in the Waterville back line. Haulie Courtney made an incisive run along the stand sideline in the thirteenth minute but was fouled and John D O’Shea converted the resultant free kick. The game ebbed and flowed with both sides displaying some good skills in spite of the greasy ball. With fourteen minutes left in the half an unforced error around the centre allowed St Michaels / Foilmore get possession and the ball was sent towards the Waterville goal. An uncharacteristic error by a Waterville defender enabled St Michaels / Foilmore in for a goal. To make matters worse, a minute later the ball was in the net again when a lapse of concentration allowed an unmarked St Michaels / Foilmore forward through from close range. Suddenly, from being a point in front Waterville found themselves five points in arrears. John D scored a free in the twenty-second minute and with five minutes remaining in the half midfielder Seamus O’Sullivan collected a pass from Brendan O’Shea around midfield. He looked up and unleashed a massive kick which split the St Michaels / Foilmore posts and drew the admiration of the supporters from both camps. At this stage Denis Dwyer had been switched from centre back to midfield and his tenacity and never say die attitude allowed Brendan O’Shea in for a goal on the stroke of half time. Earlier errors were forgiven and there was just the single point separating the sides at the interval. Seamus O’Sullivan levelled the teams three minutes after the restart with another long-range point and John D sent Waterville into the lead with a free two minutes later after a foul on Denis Dwyer. St Michaels / Foilmore upped their game and put enormous pressure on the Waterville defence. The backs withstood the onslaught manfully and none more so than Man of the Match Eoin Murty Moriarty. St Michaels / Foilmore were awarded a free in the twelfth minute when a Waterville back was adjudged to be holding and again the sides were level. John B O’Shea edged Waterville in front again with a well measured left footed strike but again St Michaels / Foilmore were on level terms three minutes later and took the lead with an excellent score from the lake side a minute later. Again it was Seamus O’Sullivan with an enormous kick from at least fifty metres that levelled for Waterville after tireless work by Denis Dwyer. John D put Waterville into the lead with less than ten minutes left in the game. This proved to be Waterville Œs final score in spite of numerous opportunities. It appeared as if the spoils would stay in the village but with seconds left in the game St Michaels / Foilmore were awarded a free which was converted and again the sides were level. A draw was a fair result with both sides serving up some good passages of play in spite of the greasy conditions and will be happy enough with a point apiece. Team: Bernard Murphy, Kevin O'Dwyer, Seamus O’Shea, Mike O'Shea, Eoin Moriarty, Denis O'Dwyer, Haulie Courtney, Seamus O’Sullivan, Gearóid O'Sullivan, Alan O'Shea, Brendan O’Shea, Fenton Daly, John B O'Shea, Keith Moran, John D O'Shea, Subs Used: Brendan "Buddy" O'Shea. Scorers: Seamus O'Sullivan 0-03, Brendan O'Shea 1-00, John D. O'Shea 0-05 (5 Frees), John B O'Shea 0-01 MARRIAGES: Congrats and best wishes to Aoife, daughter of Patricia and Joe Curran, Atlantic View, Toor and Mark, son of Ann and Tom Quigley, Woodlawn in Loher Church. The brides uncle Fr Michael Curran officiated at the marriage, assisted by Fr Fergal Ryan, PP, Caherdaniel. Best man was Trevor Mix and groomsman, Thomas Quigley. Bridesmaids were Joanne O’Sullivan and Sinead Howe. Flowergirls were Roisin Quigley, Niamh Quigley, Katelyn Curran and Sophie Walsh. Pageboy was Shane Walsh. The reception was held at the Waterville Lake Hotel. The couple will reside in Castleconnell, Limerick, where we wish them many happy years together. Jonathan, son of Frances and the late Abraham Huggard of Waterville and Elma, daughter, of Margaret and John Groves, Mileheight, Tralee, celebrated their marriage in the Church of Ireland, Ballymacelligott. Canon Robert Warren officiated at the marriage ceremony. Best man was Liam O’Shea, and groomsmen were Keith Fuller and Donal Higgins. Bridesmaids were Gina Groves, Heather Groves, and Andrea Harrington. The reception was held at Ballygarry House. The couple will reside in Carrick, Co Cork, where we wish them many happy years of wedded bliss. ENGAGEMENT: Congrats to Kathy, daughter of Mary and Christy Daly, and Michael, son of Nuala and Michael O’Sullivan, of Spunkane who announced their engagement at the week end. CONFERRING: Congratulations to Padraig Doyle and David Daly, both of Spunkane, who received their degrees in turf science at Myerscough College in Lancashire last week. BIRTH: Congrats to Siobhan and Aodhgan Courtney, of the Sheilin Restaurant, on the birth of their son Kian in Kilkenny. God bless the new arrival. SHEEP SHEARING: Well done to Patrick Moran, of Maughernane on winning two first prizes at hand shearing sheep competitions in Leenane and at Creedons Pub at the top of Coom. Official opening of Art Exhibition by Artist Damien O’Connell in Cahersiveen Library on Thursday 28th July at 8.00 pm. Everyone welcome to reception. Featuring Landscape Paintings. Early Years Centre- Registration for the Summer Term (July & August) and Autumn Term (September-December) is now taking place at Waterville Early Years Community Pre-School which caters for children aged 6 months-6 years. If you would like to enrol your child for full day-care or sessional care contact IRD Waterville Ltd. @ 066-9474366 or Waterville Early Years Centre @ 9474859. Country Market takes place every Wednesday between 11am and 2pm at Waterville Inn. Everybody welcome. Cúntóir Teanga - Tá folúntas sa Chomhchoiste do Chúntóir Teanga a bheidh ag obair le bunscoileanna lasmuigh den Ghaeltacht, ag cur chun cinn na Gaeilge i measc na leanaí. Conradh go 31/12/05. Eolas breise ó Oifig an Chomhchoiste 9474888, nó féach ar an bhfógra i Kerryman 28/07/05. Cúntóir Teanga - a vacancy exists in the Comhchoiste for a Cúntóir Teanga, working on promoting the Irish language among national school children outside the Gaeltacht area. Further info from Comhchoiste 9474888 and see also the advertisement in Kerryman of 28/07/05. Teasdíonadh - beidh an Comhchoiste ag cur isteach iarratas don Údarás arís go luath chun roinnt tithe a fháil inslithe sa cheantar i 2006. Má tá suim agat leas a bhaint as an scéim agus má tá liúntas stáit agus/nó cárta leighis agat, cuir glaoch ar oifig an Chomhchoiste 9474888 le haghaidh breis eolais. Insulation - Comhchoiste intends making an application to Údarás for funding in the near future to continue the Insulation scheme in the area in 2006. If you are interested in having assistance to have your home insulated and if you are in receipt of a state pension/ allowance and /or medical card, contact the Comhchoiste office on 9474888 for futher information. Leathanbhanda - tá an Comhchoiste ag déanamh suirbhé sna seachtainní amach romhain ar an éileamh atá sa cheantar do chóras leathanbhanda. Má tá suim agat ann, cuir glaoch ar oifig an Chomhchoiste 9474888 le haghaidh eolais - tá an léiriú suime seo fíor thábhachtach chun é a chur ina luí ar comhlachtaí cummarsáide go bhfuil éileamh sa cheantar. Broadband - Comhchoiste will, over the coming few weeks, be gathering details regarding the number of people in the area who are interested in having a broadband connection in the area. If you are interested in faster internet speeds for home or business, please contact us as soon as you can on 9474888. The more interest there is, the better chance we have of persuading providers to roll out the service in the area. Féile Chrócháin - tá obair ar siúl chun féile oidhreachta mar cheiliúradh ar Chróchán Naofa a reachtáil i bParóiste Chill Crócháin ón 29ú Iúil go 1ú Lúnasa. Dé hAoine 29ú - Aifreann na Féile in onóir Chrócháin Naofa i dTeampall an Chomhaid @ 7.30 in. Dé Domhnaigh 31ú - An Bhreac sa Tobar - taispeántas ar thoibreacha beannaithe Chiarraí Theas i Scoil Náisiúnta Chathair Dónall @ 7.30 in. Léacht na Féile "Cill Cróchán: A Stair agus a Phátrún" leis an nDr. Breandán Ó Ciobháin @ 8.00 in sa Scoil. Dé Luain 1ú - Turas na dTobar, siúlóid sléibhe chuig Tobar an Bhile, Carraig Chrócháin agus Tobar na Bearnan (am le socrú). Tógfaidh an siúlóid seo c. 2.5 uair a chloig, agus bí cinnte go bhfuil bróga siúlóide agus éadaí cuí don imeacht áirithe seo! Eolas ó 9474888. Féile Chrócháin - preparations are almost complete for a celebration around St Crohan's Day in Paróiste Chill Crócháin from 29/07 - 01/08. Friday 29th - Mass at Coad 7.30pm. Sunday 31st - exhibition relating to Holy Wells in South Kerry in Caherdaniel School at 7.30 pm followed by talk on Cill Cróchan: its history and Patron with Dr Breandán Ó Ciobhán at 8pm. Monday U-12 HURLING: Kilgarvan was the venue for Division 3 hurling final between Dr Crokes and Kilgarvan. Paddy Daly, who devoted so much time and effort as coach and trainer was delighted to give us his report of a most enjoyable and successful evening. Teams were meant to comprise 11 or 13 a-side, but on the evening 12-a-side was agreed to. Very active referee A Morrissey was pleased to be in charge of a fine sporting game. The game was closely contested with Kilgarvan leading from the start but never in total control in a low scoring contest with Kilgarvan winners on a scoreline of 3-3 to 2-1 for Dr Crokes. Team: Martin Godfrey, Aisling Kelleher, Jerry O’Sullivan, Sean Godfrey, Aoife Godfrey, Ciaran Twomey (capt), Conor Shorthall, Gearoid Randles, Tim Healy, Aisling Harrington, Jack Healy, Martin Godfrey. JUNIOR HURLING C’SHIP: The fact that four of the original players D O’Connor, S Cremin and Derek and Keith Harrington were promoted and played in Intermediate grade left John Egan and his selectors a mountain to climb to enable them take on St Pat’s. St Pat’s drawn from a wide area of East Kerry and beyond also had problems. Rathmore, East Kerry, Kilcummin and Dr Crokes had county championship ties coming up and other clubs had O’Donoghue Cup ties and this very much limited their selection. Scores came slowly in the first half and a recurrence of injury saw S Shorthall forced to retire early. Kilgarvan had an interval lead of 0-6 to 0-2. The next quarter saw St Pat’s add two points and put the game in the balance before two Kilgarvan goals sealed it. The standard never reached beyond mediocre but showed loads of spirit and determination in both sides. In a most sporting encounter A Morrissey, Na Gaeil was a capable referee. Team: Denis S O’Sullivan, Sean O’Sullivan, James Harrington (capt), Donal Twomey, Kieran O’Sullivan, John O’Donoghue, Kieran Lynch, Pa Cremin, Padraig Sweeney, MP O’Sullivan, Seamus O’Brien, Pat O’Sullivan, John P Harrington, Cathal O’Sullivan, S Shorthall. Subs: C Godfrey, Martin McCarthy, P Healy Rae, Dan Kelleher. VISITORS: A most interesting visitor named Christopher Sullivan, accompanied by his wife and three grandsons and two granddaughters arrived from Hingham, Mass, USA in search of their roots. His great grandfather Patrick Joseph O’Sullivan, born 1888 had emigrated after 1905, as did another brother named Jeremiah. There was an older brother named John who moved to Dromoughty. Despite willing helpers we were of little assistance. Unfortunately they did not have townland of birth and it was also explained to them that the place is full of O’Sullivans with all having a second name to ear mark them viz McCanns, Rogers, Coopers, Downs, Dorohy and numerous more. However, they were so pleased that they will be back again next year and hope some data will emerge and they will be looking up The Kerryman at home. Daniel Healy was here from Chicago, son of Jakes and he was visiting his first cousin, Jerry Healy, Claisdubh. Kathleen Ang (nee Twomey) formerly of Gortlahard was another overseas visitor. DEATH: The unexpected death of 43 years old Johnny Myles O’Sullivan, Kenmare was a severe shock to his family and wide circle of friends. In his younger days he played football with Templenoe and was an all round sportsman. Some weeks ago he had taken part with distinction in the Ring of Kerry cycle. Sincere sympathy is extended to his wife Fiona and family and his aged father and mother. Dan O’Callaghan of Woodville a member of the well known O’Callaghan family passed away in London at the age of 91 years. He is survived by his daughter Anna. COMING EVENTS: This coming Sunday will feature a national hill running competition in the Barnastooka region and Kilgarvan show at the GAA grounds. Both are billed to start at 1pm and will not effect each other. When our John Egan and Sean Twomey arranged the datte with the governing body several months back, they assumed that the show as usual would have an August date but to coincide with the Bank Holiday was moved forward to the last day of July. Down the years hill running has been dominated by the great John Lenihan. Some extra prizes will be awarded to the first five locals. The event will commence near the house of Frank Quill and will cover the mountain area of Barnastooka in Egan and Twomey territory. GOLDEN JUBILEE: Sister Eileen Tobin on a few weeks holidays from Slovakia on Sunday celebrated her golden jubilee as a member of the Blessed Virgin Mary Order. Fr Kelly, PP, was joined by other clergy, members of her order, family and friends for Mass in Kilgarvan Church. A reception followed in Kenmare Bay Hotel. MARTIN BECKETT HONOURED: Down the years the Beckett family of Kilgarvan have won fame and renown in the playing field and athletic fields of Kerry, Cork and Ireland. Jerry Beckett as a young teacher helped Cork win the football All-Ireland of 1911 and when they next won it in 1945 his son Derry was there. Both were well accomplished hurlers. Martin Óg who lost his life in 1998 in a car accident had already played minor and under 21 for Kerry and as a Dr Crokes player appeared a budding Kerry senior. On Sunday when Dr Crokes officially opened their new extensive clubhouse, they paid him the deserved honour of dedicating it to his memory. It was a much appreciated gesture by Dr Crokes. HURLING: On Wednesday evening the famous Austin Stacks hurling side were welcome visitors to Kilgarvan for a Division 3 Kerry senior hurling league tie. It brought back memories of numerous great Austin Stacks gaels, officials and players, who were great friends of ours. The final score was Kilgarvan 3-10, Austin Stacks 4-4. BOMB NIGHTMARE: Marcus Horgan is a young London quantity surveyor and son of Denis Horgan, formerly of Cummeen, Kilgarvan and his mother is Causeway native, Mary Leahy. The ground floor of his company’s office on first occasion became a temporary medical centre as he tried to help the victims when terrorist bombs ripped a double decker bus directly outside the office. SERVICE FOR THE DEAF AND HEARING IMPAIRED: The National Ass for Deaf People will hold an outreach service for deaf people, hard of hearing people and hearing aid users on Tuesday 2nd August in the Caherciveen Library, New Market St., Cahersiveen from 11.30a.m. ñ 3.00 p.m. 
SKELLIG RANGERS G.A.A.: The Lotto: Weekly results of the Skellig Rangers Lotto, week 24/07/05. Lotto Jackpot was ?150. There was no outright winner and the winners of the consolation prizes were: ?30 Mike Griffin Foilmore, Caherciveen, ?20 Jerry Grandfield, Emlaghpeste, Portmagee and ?20 Patrick OSullivan, Ardcost, Portmagee. The Lotto Jackpot for next week 31st July will be ?175. LOTTO ROTA: Rota for Sunday 31st July 2005: Mike & Robert Grandfield, Declan Keating and Colm Martin. NEWS FROM THE SKELLIG RANGERS PRO: County League Div 2: Skellig Rangers defeated local rivals Dromid Pearses on Sunday last by the scoreline of 1-05 to 0-9. See main sport section for full match report. Sth Kerry Minor League: Skellig Rangers V Valentia on this Wednesday at 8.00 p.m. in OíConnor Park, Valentia. Predictions: Denis Murphy of Cooil, Valentia is certainly a man of knowledge when it comes to football. Earlier in the year he predicted that Kerry, Dublin, Galway and Armagh would win their provinces which they duly did at odds of 20 to 1 but sadly Denis did not approach the local bookie and missed out on his windfall. N.B. Denis also predicts that Kerry and Armagh will contest this yearís All Ireland Final but will not commit himself on who will win just yet. County League U12: Congratulations to Skellig Ranger/Valentia combination on beating St. Senans recently to win the County U12 league. U16: The U16 team drew with Valentia on Monday evening on the score of Renard 2-9 Valentia 1-12. Their next game is at home to Sneem/Derrynane on Monday evening next. MINORS: The minor team play Foilmore in the South Kerry minor league in Reenard on Wednesday evening. THANKS: A special thanks to those who planted and maintained the flowers around the clubrooms recently. 
