sport football
{ Editorial 
    August 14 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/sports-stars-can-still-be-heroes-26223432.html }
IF you do not like sport, the coming weeks would be best spent on a remote island. The Olympics may be clouded by yet more drug controversies, but the extravaganza got off to a spectacular start in Athens on Friday night, and as it builds to its climax, so too will stories of heroes and remarkable endeavours. Sports stars can still be heroes IF you do not like sport, the coming weeks would be best spent on a remote island. The Olympics may be clouded by yet more drug controversies, but the extravaganza got off to a spectacular start in Athens on Friday night, and as it builds to its climax, so too will stories of heroes and remarkable endeavours. At home the GAA season has delivered far, far more than it promised and both championships remain wide open; in football, Shelbourne FC have given the sporting romantics renewed belief following the team's accomplished performance against Deportivo La Coruna in Lansdowne Road last Wednesday evening. And if that were not enough, the Premiership season kicks off this weekend in Britain and Ireland's top golfers are in contention for the final major of the year, the US PGA. Sport is without doubt, the real religion of the age. Sporting stars are elevated to positions of vast wealth and celebrity in societies across the world and success on the sports field determines so much of what we mean by national pride. The Republic of Ireland football team has, since 1988, become the heartbeat of this nation during major football tournaments; in counties across Ireland the GAA season provides a focal point for passion, for pride and for self-belief that defines our summer and early autumn; in rugby, the success of the Munster team has brought the sport into the hearts and homes of thousands who never knew the game and the Irish team now commands support almost on a par with the nation's footballers. Our obsession with sport is neither new, nor necessarily unhealthy, yet the proliferation of television coverage and the dramatic improvements in technology mean that we can indulge our passions like never before. Interactive television puts the Olympics at your feet: press a button and a menu of choice appears. The days of watching what the producers thought you should watch are gone: it is your choice, and your time. But whatever the technology, or whatever the sport, the age-old emotion remains the same: we search for heroes, for stories of triumph over adversity, for bravery and for sacrifice that bring tears to the eyes. This need for heroes is sometimes portrayed as a sign of a weak society, one that has lost direction and grown lazy on the back of its material success. It is, however, an intellectual snobbery affected by those who disdain sporting success, and the wealth it brings to its exponents and is not far removed from the belief, many centuries ago, that physical development impaired mental development. Sport, whether in Croke Park or Thomond Park, Athens or Cork, provides a diversion and an entertainment that nothing else in this world can match: it can be more gripping than any movie, more dramatic than any play, more passionate than any embrace. Yet sports moments are fleeting ones: we watch, we celebrate and then we get back to our daily, more mundane, lives. This sporting obsession is not, of course, without its flaws. The rampant commercialisation of every sport constantly threatens to debase them, and television companies wield the power to bend sports organisations to their will. The pressure to succeed and the promise of such unimagined wealth for those that do clearly induces athletes to take risks with their bodies, to abuse drugs and seek short-cuts to the podium. This, too, is not a modern phenomenon; the Greeks and Romans took drugs to try and boost their performances and the Olympics have been riddled with them from the very start of the new generation of games. That abuse, however, cannot mask the truth that sporting stars, by and large, are good heroes and good role models for our children and that sport is a wonderful relief from the pressures of life. And in a society that is threatened by alarming levels of obesity, by excessive teenage drinking and lawlessness, it is surely a good thing that we can hold on to our sporting heroes, and hold them up as examples of what can be achieved. To succeed at sport requires talent, dedication and luck, but it is not all about success. The Olympic Games provide refreshing evidence that participation, too, remains an enviable goal. Sport, at its essence, teaches young people self-respect, respect for others, self-discipline, setting and achieving goals and fair play; that is a fine basis for any society, and one to which we should aspire. And if that allows us to indulge our passions, scream at the television set or go mad in Croke Park, so much the better. Sport, no matter what the cynics will have you believe, is a good thing; sit back and enjoy the show. 
