sport football
{  
    May 18 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/time-other-sports-were-given-recognition-and-funding-cllrs-27784398.html }
FIELD sports such as football and GAA are not the only sports and its time other sports were recognised and adequately funded, a Fingal... FIELD sports such as football and GAA are not the only sports and it’s time other sports were recognised and adequately funded, a Fingal councillor said last week. The council was discussing Cathaoirleach Sheila Terry’s motion that the council recommend that significant finance funded by rates and development levies be allocated towards the provision of community and recreational centres throughout the county. Colr Terry said that for so long there had been ‘no money’ available to the council to provide such facilities and that the council had been ‘hung up’ on the provision of just one type of sporting field, which was the playing field. ‘I’m not taking from that. We need playing fields and we need more of them but [football] is not the only sport that’s out there and there are many people who would like to be involved in lots of other sports but they are not available unless they have money to join private clubs.’ Colr Terry said there were also people who were not able-bodied enough to play some sports and that they needed centres to meet people or just to ‘play cards’. So many disadvantaged areas in Fingal had been deprived of simple community centres and to see people spending ‘years and years’ raising money and selling raffle tickets to raise money to build such centres themselves was ‘just not good enough’. She was asking for facilities that were ‘all embracing’ and open to all members of the community be provided and that they include creches. But the council had to ‘get away’ from the thinking that people only played one sort of sport, i.e. GAA or soccer, the councillor said. Councillor Anne Devitt (FG) said that the motion was very timely and that the only sport available seemed to be soccer or gaelic or on occasion tennis or cricket. ‘I believe we are sexist in our approach to this,’ she said. ‘By and large the users of these open spaces are men or boys from 17-50 and we do not see women using these sorts of facilities.’ ‘We provide for open space that is only used by 50 per cent of the community, i.e. males,’ the councillor added. ‘The amount of council resources that go into acres and acres of playing fields that are only geared towards 50 per cent of the population and within that a much smaller percentage - it’s time the huge shortage of pocket parks within the council was addressed.’ Colr Devitt said there were not enough playgrounds and parks around for people with small children and that this had not been addressed in the current County Development Plan. ‘We are inviting communities to live in new areas of Fingal and we are not providing them with the facilities to create a community.’ Labour councillor Tom Kelleher accused Colr Devitt of being ‘sexist’ in her own remarks and said that the Cathaoirleach’s motion had been ‘hijacked’ and used to lambaste organisations that were providing valuable facilities for youths who would otherwise be ‘up to no good’. Pitches were used by people of all ages and the fact that more men than women used them was not up to the council. Certain sports did not mix such as horse riding and GAA and they weren’t suitable for the same areas, Colr Kelleher said. However, there were areas between Rolestown and Swords that were ‘perfectly suitable’ places for bridle paths for those who wanted to go horse riding. Colr Kelleher said the council should do an audit of ‘recreational deficits’ in each area as a major development was completed by asking communities what facilities were lacking. Colr Joan Burton (Lab) said that both club sports and the ‘passive user’ of recreational facilities had to be catered for. There was an enormous increase in the playing of field sports by girls, who were now involved in soccer and GAA. ‘There is huge participation by girls,’ she said. However, there was a problem with changing facilities and 12-year-old girls could not really be taken out to change in a container or under a tree. ‘You are not going to sustain an interest because they are just going to be embarrassed unless showers and changing facilities are provided.’ Socialist Party councillor Joe Higgins said he fully agreed with the motion. Housebuilders should be obliged to put recreational facilities in place either in conjunction with the communities or with the county council. Independent councillor Gerry Lynam said that the problem every community building a centre faced was how to continue funding it once it was built. ‘The only way it can be done is effectively to bring in what are commercial operations such as Irish dancing teaching or to charge exorbitant rents to [people using the centre].’ ‘There’s a fixation with putting the building there but people forget that there’s a massive cost in running the building.’ Colr Lynam said there was also the problem that school buildings were lying idle and locked up in the evenings. Communities could not use them because there was an insurance problem. He would ‘defend to the death’ field and football sports. One of the fastest growing sports was women’s GAA. He would never question the necessity to spend more money on buying land for field sports. ‘We can never invest enough money in any form of sport which is a character-building exercise for anybody involved,’ Colr Lynam said. Colr Terry’s motion was also commended by Colr Peter Coyle (Lab) who said that it focused on how facilties were to be provided. He claimed that ‘very often’ developers had ‘used clubs to get their way’ whether through the County Development Plan or an Area Action Plan. ‘I would prefer that it go through the council and be funded that way,’ he said. Other councillors who supported the motion were Colr Joan Maher (FG) and Colr Michael Kennedy (FF). Colr Kennedy said that if more young people could be involved in field sports, then clubs such as Portmarnock FC would not be burnt down a few weeks before they opened. It was essential that developers pay their due to local communities for facilities, he said. Green Party councillor Heidi Bedell also supported the motion. Colr GV Wright TD said that one of the most important provisions in the new County Development Plan was for Area Action Plans. The motion recognised the need for recreation facilities and that they had to be a part of the AAP process. Before any major development happened, it would give the public their say before the AAP was returned for approval. Labour councillor Seán Ryan TD also welcomed the motion and claimed that in 1992, developers had used the ‘legitimate concerns and needs’ of community organisations to secure their rezonings. County Manager Willie Soffe said that there was no provision in current legislation to fund community and recreational centres from development levies and rates income and that was why there was a ‘predominance’ of pitches. He agreed that there needed to be a ‘re-focusing’ of how money was spent on community facilities and the new Development Plan would provide for that. Mr Soffe said there was a need to address the requirements of women, old people, small children and everybody as much as providing football pitches. His only problem was when some clubs sought to make the use of the grounds exclusive to themselves and he reminded them that such facilities were the property of the council and would remain such. A report to councillors said that development levies could be imposed for the recovery of the council’s costs associated with the provision of infrastructural works which facilitated development. These works were defined by statute to include roads, water supply and drainage, including the provision of open space. As there was no provision to impose levies for community and recreational centres, the council was prohibited from doing so. However, councillors heard that the new Planning Bill provided for a new system for the levying of contributions which could be used to provide community facilities and transport infrastructure. The council provided £300,000 this year towards the cost of community/recreational facilities, which was raised through the county rate, the report said. 
