sport football
{  
    October 05 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/are-we-suffering-from-too-much-sport-on-tv-26134213.html }
TV sport armchair fans are having a feast with soccer's European qualifier and the continuing Rugby World Cup. But there's so much live sport on TV now it's become a glut, says Jerome Reilly There's always been a lot of sport on TV. The difference now is that so much of it is live. Ten days ago the All-Ireland football final, the Ryder Cup and the European Grand Prix gripped the nation. Last weekend it was the Rugby World Cup and much more, this weekend Ireland plays Macedonia in the do-or-die Euro 2000 qualifier. In between, of course, there's the endless live week night football, so endless in fact that it's now become a contentious issue for the sport's world governing body. During the week FIFA attacked UEFA for increasing the number of televised matches, warning that saturation coverage could actually drive viewers away. With 64 European matches broadcast in the space of three days last week, FIFA secretary general, Michel Zen-Riffinen, warned that viewers could soon be heading for an overdose. The lure of live sport is best explained by the fact that most of us will probably never smell the magnolia blossom lining the manicured fairways at Augusta, savour the high octane whiff of fuel and adrenalin in the pit lane at Monza or the sweat and Winter Green in the Old-Trafford dressing room. Not to worry though because every day we now have the next best thing a moving feast of live sport in our living rooms beamed from around the globe. However even gluttons can eventually reach capacity. The sports mad Irish are in danger of becoming an obese nation of watchers in the world of sport. What happened after the All-Ireland final last Sunday week, the not-to-be missed annual occasion for thousands of households? Did father and son go outside for a kickabout on one of the last afternoons of daylight before the clocks go back? Was Ollie Murphy's goal for Meath recreated in the front garden? I doubt it. In fact I'll wager that most sports fans in the major urban areas who could receive the signal switched straight over to the Ryder Cup, or the live soccer match on Sky Sports, having already consumed the tasty appetiser of the European Grand Prix before the All-Ireland. All told, between the terrestrial channels and the main satellite sports channels, last weekend there was nearly 12 hours of continuous live sports on offer. Cablelink's generosity in showing the Sky Box Office presentation of the Ryder Cup for free was greeted as a great humanitarian gesture. During the next two months it will be the Rugby Union World Cup. Yes it's a major sporting event and it doesn't come around too often. And it does have the saving grace that at least we are participants, though hardly strong contenders. But like the grossly expanded European Champions League, the preliminaries look numbingly predictable before the real action begins in a few weeks time. Last weekend it was New Zealand, Ireland, Australia and England piling on the tries against lowly opposition. It was the nearest thing to a guaranteed fourtimer at the bookies you were ever going to get. But spliced in between all that there's the Carling Premiership, Rugby Super League, British Basketball, tractor pulling and poor European Boxing, it just never stops. What next? Pro-celebrity lawn mowing from Frankfurt? A good chunk of it is hardly worth the airtime. Here's a few ``major'' live sporting events from last weekend: Brighton Bears v. Birmingham Bullets on Saturday on the flagship sports station, Sky Sports One. Live coverage of this ``vital'' Southern conference clash in the Dairylea Dunkers Championship (that's right, they're basketball teams) sounded distinctly cheesy to me. The appalling efforts to resurrect European boxing has led to the absurd hyping of really poor fighters who wouldn't be allowed to clean the spit buckets at Madison Square Garden. So we had the over-rated Steve Robinson v. Claude Chinon (who he?) for the European Featherweight title live on Saturday night. This Saturday night it's the WBO intercontinental light middleweight title bout between Anthonmy Farnell and Nicky Thurbin. In football both Crewe versus Tranmere and Walsall versus Birmingham City also got live coverage. Hardly top class fare. This Sunday it's Burnley v Scunthorpe United. And if you believe that, now the McCarthy and Sam Maguires have found new homes in Cork and Meath, there will be no more football and hurling until the grass grows next spring, think again. The traditional October/May famine for GAA fans is at an end and at least this has the benefit of giving viewers closely fought matches, often more entertaining than the provincial championships of early summer. TG4 will fill the winter void with coverage of the All-Ireland club championships and selected county finals. There will also be five National League games, the Fitzgibbon and Sigerson Cup finals, the Shinty-Hurling international, and the All-Ireland Colleges hurling and football deciders. That's live GAA matches for 23 consecutive Sundays. In fairness they will probably offer more compelling viewing for the price of the licence fee than the dross offered for a hefty subscription.  When it comes down to it, TV sport has now reached the level where it's simply too much of a good thing. It's time for TV sports fans to go on a diet, and to indulge themselves only with the most tasty morsels. 
