sport football
{ Henry Winter 
    August 14 2012 07:19 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/henry-winter-football-can-take-lessons-from-olympic-humility-but-not-everything-in-the-game-is-bad-26886730.html }
THE Olympic experience briefly took a few footballers out of their bubble, out of what Sol Campbell always used to call the "gilded cage" of England or elite club life. Jack Butland looked around the Olympic Village teeming with successful British athletes and cyclists and thought of his fellow Team GB footballers: ‘‘We’re not special here.’’ He was just another competitor chasing gold (and not for very long either). The Olympics have ended but the legacy spreads into the national game, seeping under the doors of dressing rooms if not yet into the fabric of football. The likes of Butland and Tom Cleverley have returned to their clubs and now England, talking about their time in the five-ringed circus, and the uplifting effect it had on them. Good. Football can learn from the Olympics, from the humility of most of the participants yet some spectacularly naive comments tumble forth from those who have been camping too long in the enchanted garden of the Olympic Village. It seems one final gold medal is being contested and that is kicking football. Football cannot really complain. It has always aroused jealousy, dislike, snobbery. It has had its own way too long, arrogantly charging around, barging other sports out of the way, hogging the limelight and the broadcasting booty. A touch of meekness would be welcome. Yet those who perceive the situation as black and white, as football being a den of iniquity compared to the spotless International Olympic Committee domain, suffer from a blurred vision. No sport can boast a pristine reputation. Sadly, the Olympics revealed the darker side of human nature, the failed drugs tests and that outrageous sight of badminton players colluding. Existing under far greater all-day, year-round scrutiny, football also reflects the negative in society. There's swearing, aggression and simulation – and that was just Sunday’s Community Shield. Yet there is also so much good in football, from the legion of club community departments to players quietly raising huge sums for good causes through their foundations. Some of the younger players can be spoiled brats, their first contracts turning their heads, but others remain grounded. Time spent at the Grove yesterday with Butland and Cleverley confirmed the belief that role models exist in football, that those who decry the game lack a balanced, informed perspective. Butland and Cleverley found the Olympic mood music struck a chord with their view of how sport should be played. With honesty and humility. “The way sport was showcased in the Olympics was an example for everyone in every sport: the sportsmanship, the respect we had for everyone,’’ said Cleverley. Even in such a results-driven world as football, Cleverley was raised with certain principles also suffusing Olympians. “Growing up, in the 10 or 11 years with Manchester United and Sir Alex Ferguson, I know how to keep my feet on the ground,’’ added Cleverley, whose understanding of the need for sacrifice to succeed has been helped by proximity to Gary Neville, Ryan Giggs and Paul Scholes. When mention was made that Cleverley’s face stares out from advertising billboards, he said with a smile: “I’m all right. I still push my trolley round the supermarket.” Good. Some young players can become 'big-time', believing they have made it, not realising the dedication required. Ravel Morrison’s journey has made painful viewing for those who admired his balance and technique. Once to be found gracing the training pitches of Carrington that nurtured Cleverley, Morrison’s career is now on the slide, a waste of a genuine talent. Many of the Olympians have benefited from strong family support networks, something the troubled Morrison could only dream of. People should remember that football’s recruiting ground is not always as green and pleasant a land as that producing a substantial number of Olympians. It’s tarmacked. Lacking guidance at home, and despite the extensive pastoral care offered by United, Morrison now finds himself an itinerant figure, sent on loan by West Ham United to Birmingham City. If Lee Clark can instil some maturity into Morrison it will be an event stirring as much shock as celebration, worthy of a gold medal for man-management. At 19, Butland is the same age as Morrison, his new Birmingham team-mate. The goalkeeper’s star is in the ascendant, its trajectory accelerated by a loving family. “Luckily I have the family around me to make sure I don’t get ahead of myself, which is something I hate to see in players,’’ said Butland. “The term ‘big time’, I hate to see that.’’ Butland was not referring to Morrison in particular but those who know the mixed-up midfielder will nod anyway. “Any professional needs to be confident in his own ability and what he can achieve but there is a line between that and arrogance,’’ continued Butland. “It can taint people’s views of you and once you’ve lost that, it can be very difficult to get it back.’’ Wise words. Some footballers frequently spout sense in public, before doing spectacularly stupid things on the pitch or in nightclubs. Not all Olympians are angels, and the last night in the village sounded particularly lively, but there is a feeling of responsibility towards their sports occasionally lacking in footballers. From Ben Ainslie in sailing to Sir Chris Hoy in cycling, most of the Olympians make marvellous ambassadors for their chosen pursuits. They compete hard and talk well. If many sports would love football’s simple, global appeal, football itself must still absorb many of the lessons from London 2012. The way the IOC and individual federations acted so strongly and quickly on any cheating is something football should appreciate and replicate. Take diving. For a goalkeeper such as Butland, rushing out to face strikers of questionable balance and moral rectitude, opponents who dive are as much a frustration to him as to the furious fans in the ground or the millions screaming at their television sets. “Diving is cheating,’’ said Butland. “No one likes to see that, but unfortunately some of it is in the game. It might take a while but it’s something we need to tidy up.’’ Simulation, shirt-pulling, surrounding referees, time-wasting and verbally abusing opponents: football’s many sins need tackling. But intelligently. The Olympic flame should be used to enlighten football but not used to burn it. Telegraph.co.uk 
