sport football
{ Independent.ie Sportsdesk 
    December 18 2017 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/philly-gooch-tyrrell-shine-in-real-bumper-crop-of-reads-36416395.html }
GAA The Choice – Philly McMahon (with Niall Kelly) Gill Books Theme: Not really about Gaelic football but about busting stereotypes, in this case the hard-chaw defender and the disadvantaged area (Ballymun) and the tragic family history that shaped him. It’s about two brothers taking diametrically opposed paths in life. 
Close
 Roche: story retold. Image: AP Photo/Michel Lipchitz / McMahon has not only won five All-Ireland medals with Dublin, he’s already a successful young entrepreneur with a fitness and nutrition business and is a powerful advocate for underprivileged youth, not least because his brother John became a heroin addict and was dead before he was 30. McMahon explores powerful questions about family and loyalty, about club and community identity, about addiction, loss and hope, and he does so in the same raw, unapologetic and passionate way that he plays football. This is a classic ‘two roads diverged in a wood’ story with some unexpected twists. What makes it most remarkable is McMahon’s candour and insight. In defying lazy stereotyping of person, place and club, he makes us all wonder about our own choices, in and outside of sport. VERDICT: Definitely worth a read. McMahon’s is an amazing story and it’s well handled by Niall Kelly of The42.ie. Irrefutable proof that great sports books are often more about people than sport. READERSHIP POTENTIAL?Massive, not just from Dubs’ fans. It asks a lot of hard questions about society that go way beyond sport. Winning the 2017 Eir Sports Book of the Year title will increase sales even further. Star Rating: † † † † † (Cliona Foley)   
Close
 Other nominees for the top prize. / THE ASCENT – BARRY  RYAN Gill Books Theme: ’Tis the season for nostalgia and Ryan, a Corkman who is European editor of Cyclingnews.com has served up a brilliantly crafted account of the golden age of Irish cycling. This was a time when Kelly and Roche needed no further introduction than their surnames and, with the supporting cast of Paul Kimmage and Martin Earley, Irish cycling scaled the sort of heights not seen before nor since.  While the careers of Kelly, Roche and Kimmage have been well documented before, Ryan weaves together the career paths and relationships of the Fab Four as Grand Tour success, Classic victories and, in Roche’s case, a World Championship, decorated the landscape. Of course, the golden age wasn’t all glitter and glory.  Kimmage steps out of the shadows to shine a torch into the darker corners of the sport and Ryan delves into the positive tests of Kelly and the allegations surrounding Roche’s relationship with controversial Italian sports doctor Francesco Conconi; areas that, at the time, were often difficult for Irish fans to process. There is no happy ending as previously close relationships are torn asunder and, with the benefit of 25 years of hindsight, the ‘golden age’ becomes discoloured by the sort of controversy with which we’ve now become all too familiar.  VERDICT: A compelling retelling of one of the most fascinating eras in Irish sport and some of its most complex relationships. Rightly earned its place on the shortlist for the Eir Sports Book of the Year, no small achievement in an area usually dominated by GAA and rugby writing.  READERSHIP POTENTIAL? Kelly and Roche transcended cycling in the ’80s and Ryan’s brilliant account achieves a similar feat. Those who lived through it and those who weren’t even born before the ‘triple crown’ will enjoy this mature reflection of a more innocent, and often remarkable, time in Irish sport.  Star Rating: † † † †  (Ciaran Lennon)   No Hunger in Paradise –  Michael Calvin Random House Theme: Calvin has a history of exposing the darker side of British football and here he examines its development pathways for the young hopefuls who dream of Premier League glory but find a reality of shark-infested waters. The author goes behind the scenes at all levels of the English game to discover what lies between a promising starlet and the big time; the pitfalls that so many fall into and the many layers of people ready to exploit them for their own profit. Although a number of those he interviews come out of the story well, there is an underlying sense of frustration at the barriers placed in the way of players looking to fulfil their undoubted potential, the ego of those in the coaching world and the sense that money has corrupted every level of the game in England. VERDICT:  Calvin is a natural storyteller who is unflinching as he goes behind the scenes and meets the people at the heart of the youth development network. READERSHIP POTENTIAL? People involved in coaching, fans of the game and anyone who thinks Premier League players have it easy should take a look at the path they took. It might change some perceptions. An eye-opener. Star Rating: † † † †  (Ruaidhri O’Connor)   The Warrior’s Code – Jackie Tyrrell (with Christy  O’Connor) Trinity Sport Media Theme: One of the greatest players on arguably the greatest team in the history of hurling lifts his head above the black and amber parapet. Tyrrell’s newspaper columns had already shown a man unafraid to speak his mind and his book is equally good; an unsanitised, unsentimental and entertaining look at what has made this Kilkenny team and their manager Brian Cody so successful. It is not always flattering and its bluntness has shocked some, but it reflects why Kilkenny became so dominant and the techniques that Cody so subtly and successfully used to push their players to improve. This title says it all. This book gives us the first revelatory look at the code by which this team and their legendary manager trained and brought hurling to another level. VERDICT:  Superb, and that’s reflected by making the shortlist of just three for the eir Sports Book of the Year. Christy O’Connor has already written some great ones and proves himself a brilliant ghost-writer. READERSHIP POTENTIAL? This will appeal to far more than Cats fans. Club coaches and managers, even outside the GAA, will buy it to try to find out just what made Kilkenny so dominant for so long. Star Rating: † † † †  (Cliona Foley)   First Hand: My life in  Football –  Eoin Hand  (With jared browne) Collins Press Theme: Ireland’s absence from World Cup 2016 will heighten the excessive nostalgic immersion in Euro ’88 and all that – a frightening prospect. One of the reasons will be the lazy rehashing of the argument that (Saint) Jack Charlton supposedly inherited a squad of layabout, drunken hackers who had been mismanaged beyond redemption by his predecessor. Sadly, a generation has grown up swallowing this myth and the predecessor, Eoin Hand, has had to live with that reality. Hand was spat on after losing to Denmark at home, his mother was verbally abused and his son’s tyres were slashed.  Martin O’Neill lost more heavily to Denmark at home, but is likely to be handed a new contract. Some myths persist, it seems. Hand’s life went beyond football and, as he explains here, almost as far as death. He has heard the last rites and his humility informs him throughout the book. VERDICT: An extraordinary story of an ordinary man whose second chance at life seems to have brought much more happiness and ease. READERSHIP POTENTIAL? Should be a hit with Irish soccer fans, young and old. The old will know the period well, but the young should also read it, to learn just how differently things were done in the past. Star Rating: † † † †  (David Kelly)   Gooch  – Colm Cooper (with Vincent Hogan) Transworld Ireland Theme: The big argument after Gooch’s retirement from the inter-county scene was always going to be about where he features on the all-time list of great GAA forwards. You get no sense of the special talent that took him into such an exalted sphere in this book, which is hardly surprising given the modest manner in which he always conducted himself. What you do get is a fascinating insight into his personal journey from the streets of Ardshanavooly, Killarney, where he learned the football trade as a small kid, to last April when he decided the time had come to say goodbye to the Kerry jersey.  VERDICT: The book is vintage ‘Gooch’: honest, unassuming and understated, yet wonderfully interesting because of the combination of all three, set against the background of his football genius. It called for ghost-writing excellence, which Hogan delivered with trademark style. READERSHIP POTENTIAL? It’s unlikely there will be a house in Kerry without it by Christmas Day and there should be a big demand for it around the rest of the GAA world as well. Star Rating: † † † † † (Martin Breheny)   Centaur – Declan Murphy and Ami  Rao Doubleday Theme: The story of Limerick jockey Declan Murphy’s recovery after being given the last rites following a horrible fall in Haydock Park in 1994. This is arguably the most stylishly written sports book this year. The subject – Murphy’s accident and battle to recovery – is incredibly moving but never maudlin. A centaur is a mythical half-man/half horse creature and the descriptions of the physical and spiritual connection between horse and jockey are brilliant and will especially strike a chord with anyone who has ever ridden a horse or loves animals.  VERDICT:  Exceptional. Rao knew nothing about racing, which actually proves to be an advantage. Murphy, who does not sugar-coat his harrowing experience, comes across as fiercely intelligent and, despite the subject matter, this is a hugely positive book about the human condition and hope. READERSHIP POTENTIAL? Huge, and not just for racing fans, because Murphy’s experience and story is utterly compelling. Star Rating: † † † †  (Cliona Foley)   THE DUBS: the Complete  Record of Dublin Football  – Gerry Callan Ballpoint Press Theme: A statistical and historical guide to Dublin football (1888-2017). GAA records are, in many cases, quite sketchy, but the amount of work Callan put into this 430-pager is quite phenomenal. Apart from listing every result, team and scorer across all grades of Dublin inter-county activity, he also deals comprehensively with the Dublin club scene. The detail is at a level never previously seen in the GAA. VERDICT: It will remain the ultimate guide to Dublin football long into the future, guaranteeing a shelf life that few other books in any sports achieve. READERSHIP POTENTIAL? Dublin supporters and all the players whose deeds are brought together in one comprehensive guide. Every other county would love to curate a similar history. Star Rating: † † † † † (Martin Breheny)   professional betting: strategies for modern  markets – wayne bailey Raceform Theme: This is exactly what it says on the tin – one man’s insight into how all of you out there can reach the punter’s Holy Grail and beat the bookies. That may sound like a fanciful notion to most of us who come out the worse for wear in this perennial war, but the author – in this case, regular Irish Independent columnist Wayne Bailey – believes it is possible to come out on top. He outlines how his system works, how he has stayed faithful to it (illustrated by listing every single bet he made in 2015) and how it has worked to keep him in the black. He makes no secret of the bad days and warns of many pitfalls facing the intrepid punter; the chief one being big bookie firms banning punters who place a couple of successful bets online. VERDICT: The title might suggest that this book is only for regular gamblers, but it’s definitely not – the author’s ability to use his own experiences and tell a wonderful story gives this a much broader appeal. READERSHIP POTENTIAL? Anyone out there interested in having a bet on any sport. Star Rating:  † † † † (Thomas Kelly) Indo Sport 
