sport football
{  
    September 05 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/eugene-mcgee-negative-tactics-prevailing-25896322.html }
'The football is shocking bad this year, isn't it?' Everywhere I went for the past couple of months this is what people whose main sporting interest is Gaelic football have been saying to me. 'The football is shocking bad this year, isn't it?' Everywhere I went for the past couple of months this is what people whose main sporting interest is Gaelic football have been saying to me. This does not surprise me in the least, in fact it would be more of a surprise if the fans were saying it was a great year for football. Last year these fans homed in on the so-called Ulster style of football as played by Tyrone and Armagh and blamed that genre of the sport for the overall absence of quality football. But this year, the blame is being spread a lot wider and even extends to the one county that used to be above reproach in this regard, Kerry. Older followers of Gaelic football - be they players, managers or plain ordinary followers - invariably lament the days of yore and imply that football nowadays is not a patch on what it was 20, 30 or even 50 years ago. This is a glib summary of the position that in relation to the games of the sixties and seventies at least, has not been borne out by watching television replays. Even the mythical status attached to the Kerry-Dublin games of the 70s has been largely debunked apart from two or three encounters such as the 1977 semi-final. Therefore, when everybody starts complaining about the standard of the game today it is wrong to concur with such views without some serious analysis. And it is important to point out that for the majority of football fans the first requirement for enjoyment and satisfaction is an exciting game. Football with a very high level of skill and style is a fairly distant secondary consideration. There is one critical factor that differentiates Gaelic football over the past decade or so and the game as played in the previous 25 years - and this is the level of team preparation being undertaken and the vast amounts of money being spent on this process. Team preparation is now reaching the same level as professional sports. The average amount of money spent preparing county teams varies between ?250,000 and ?500,000 per year which is vastly greater than was the case in the 60s, 70s and 80s. But what disappoints most thinking GAA followers is that this hugely increased preparation in which teams undergo massive pre-season training and often train four or five times a week during the season, as well as training weekends away and week long training camps at exotic continental destinations, has not brought about any improvement in the quality of football being played. So what should concern GAA officials in this country is why with all the additional training Gaelic football does not appear to be any more skillful than it formerly was. Up to now of course, no GAA official has shown any indication of concern at the course Gaelic football is taking. Results really are EVERYTHING in the sport and nobody - official, player, manager or follower - is concerned about how those results are achieved if they are in their favour. Another reason why GAA officials are unconcerned with the state of football is that attendances keep going up and up, if only at the big championship games. So long as the money keeps rolling in, most officials are as happy as Larry. When we get popular results in the GAA they tend to gloss over a multitude of flaws, including the overall state of the game. First All-Irelands for Donegal, Derry, Armagh and Tyrone in the past 12 years and breakthroughs by Clare, Leitrim, Westmeath, Limerick, Wexford and Fermanagh have been so welcome to GAA followers that nobody bothers to consider the general state of the game. But one does not have to be an old fogey with romantic notions that 'everything was better in my day' to have cause for concern with modern day Gaelic football. The speed at which the game is played has increased in modern times but at a terrible price to the fundamental skills of the game. Even the playing rules have been altered to facilitate the mantra that 'speed is everything'. For example, the free kicks from the ground, which for 100 years were a primary skill of the game, have now been practically phased out in order, we are told, to speed up the game. Yet more free kick attempts at scores are being missed today than was the case when frees had to be taken from the ground. The most obvious change in the way football is played concerns the two main skills of kicking and catching. Kicking is being gradually phased out of the game by most team managers. The overriding philosophy today is what is called possession football which decrees that once a team gains possession of the ball they must retain it until a score attempt has been made. This means that no risks are to be taken in transferring the ball from one end of the field to the other and kicking the ball is considered risk No 1 with most managers. This explains why we never see a goalkeeper kicking the ball from his hands anymore. Instead, he handpasses to a corner-back who then initiates a series of such passes among his defensive colleagues until the ball is safely carried in this manner in the opponent's defence. Once there, another bout of hand passing takes place until the ball is worked close enough to goals for a shot. Which in most cases means close enough to see the colour of the opposing goalkeeper's eyes. There is a ghastly expression coming into football from other sports, 'the turnover'. Kicking, therefore, is not being encouraged as a means of transferring the ball anymore because, apparently, it is too risky to expect your colleague at the receiving end of your kick to go and win the ball in the air. This also of course largely eliminates the high catch. Only for it being compulsory for kickouts to be taken from the ground the high catch would probably be defunct. Short passing can be attractive to watch but in recent years I have detected a growing resentment to the abuse of this style of play. I have no doubt that the most common expression used by fans at football games is: 'KICK THE F*****G BALL IN AND STOP THE MESSING'. The most disappointing aspect of modern team preparation, which in general is wonderful for players, is that a negative theme seems to permeate. Videos are watched ad nauseum in order to find ways to negative opponents. Spontaneity is being outlawed and all players are expected to play according to house-rules dictated by the manager. 'Safety first' predominates, such as the reluctance to kick long balls. This is mainly why the brilliant foot-passing displayed by Kieran McDonald this year has caught the eye so much. What's seldom is wonderful. The way managers are phasing out the high catch as a means of gaining possession in favour of the short pass is in marked contrast to how the Australians promote that skill by rewarding the catcher with a free kick, if he wishes. The wonderful fitness levels of the modern player compared to 30 or 40 years ago is to be welcomed, but sadly, that fitness is being often used in a negative fashion which is damaging the game. Half-forwards sprinting back into their own defence to crowd out attackers is an example of this. The improvements which football should be achieving through modern training systems are not to be seen. The opposite is the case and the huge number of fouls, blown and not blown, in big games is a sad reflection on the level of tackling coaching at all these training sessions. Somebody needs to stand back and take a long hard look at Gaelic football before a wonderful game is debased beyond recognition.  Eugene McGee E-mail: eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
