sport football
{  
    February 22 2009 04:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/playing-field-far-from-level-26515699.html }
T he ESRI surveys on sport are tremendously important documents which anyone with an opinion on sport in Ireland should be familiar with. They are important because they provide concrete factual evidence about sport in this country. Far too often, arguments about sporting participation and provision in Ireland are full of unsupported assertions. Surveys like the first Irish Sports Monitor survey, published last week, tell us what the actual situation is on the ground. For example, everyone knows we're a sports-mad nation. Except we're not. Finland is a sports-mad nation, 52 per cent of the population have participated in half an hour of sporting activity three times in the previous week. So is Australia (46 per cent) and Canada (39 per cent). We're kind of average, our 26 per cent is one point behind the Germans and two ahead of the French. The Italians, by the way, are bottom of the heap at 11 per cent. That's one myth scotched. Mind you, everyone knows that the great thing about sport is that it's open to everyone. Nothing's more democratic than sport, right? Wrong. The higher your income and better your education, the more likely you are to play sport. Someone in the top income echelon is six times more likely to be a member of a sports club than someone on the bottom rung. It helps to have gone on to third level education too. ESRI found "a very strong socio-economic basis in sporting activity." People who play sport are "on average better educated, more likely to be male, younger and richer." People on low incomes are between two and three times more likely to be sedentary than active. Those in the richest groups are between four and five times more likely to be active than sedentary. The playing field is far from level. Still, everyone knows that the love of sport is the same everywhere in Ireland. Here, however, we have one really surprising set of statistics. After applying the controls for age, education and income, ESRI came up with an astounding disparity. Someone in Dun Laoghaire/Rathdown is almost six times as likely to play sport as someone of the same age and income level in Westmeath. And it's not just an urban/rural thing. In Mayo, they're four times more likely to participate than their Westmeath counterparts. So, while in the top three areas, Dun Laoghaire/Rathdown, Mayo and Monaghan, they're power-walking, swimming and lifting weights to beat the band, in the bottom three, Westmeath, Limerick and Offaly, exercise is walking to the fridge to get out the pizza and vigorously pressing the remote as you watch another DVD. OK, a bit of an exaggeration. But it would be interesting to know why the fit bastard from Monaghan is two and a half times more likely to play sport than the fat bastard from Limerick. Mind you, everyone does know that Gaelic football is the country's number one sport. Well, not if you go by participation levels where, on 2.3 per cent, it trails behind swimming (6.7 per cent), soccer (5.9 per cent) and golf (5.2 per cent). Add in hurling's 1.9 per cent and Gaelic games still trail. The most popular sporting activity in the country is actually personal exercise on 7.3 per cent which I suppose means treadmills, weights, rowing machines, aerobics and all the other accoutrements which strike fear into the heart of your average native of Mullingar or Moate. When, a few months back, another survey found similar results there was an intemperate and blustering response from the GAA who saw it as some kind of attack on them. Yet all ESRI were doing was presenting the statistics. The current survey shows that Gaelic games remains the most popular spectator sport. It doesn't suggest that, if the Government is serious about getting people playing sport rather than watching it, pouring money into the GAA is not particularly good value. But the implication is there and that's what the Association reacted to the last time. Because, especially in times of straitened Government finances, the sensible thing to do is to provide sporting facilities on the basis of what people actually play rather than what you feel they should be playing, something which would mean far more local sports centres and swimming pools and far less being given to county boards to indulge an edifice complex which sees them add capacity to stadiums which will be filled, if they're lucky, once or twice a year. There's something deeply unsatisfactory about the fact that in many areas the provision of gym and swimming pool facilities is left up to the hotel sector. Down the road from me, the closure of a hotel has left a community without those facilities. And a continued economic downturn in the hospitality sector could see this being repeated. These are services which the Government should be providing because the ESRI report makes it clear that these are the services people would use. And, as anyone who's forked out the money to join a gym knows, at the moment they are slanted towards the better off. There's also the fact that people in the poorer areas of the country don't tend to have luxury hotels in the vicinity. The Scandinavian countries who lead the way in sports participation worldwide have an array of superb public sporting facilities. That's what we should be aiming for. Everyone knows we won't get anything like this, because there's one notable omission from the list of the country's most popular sports. I see no number there for participants in horse racing, though this may be because half of those who take part couldn't get the biro into their hooves to fill out the survey. Yet this year, like every other year, the Government handed over more money to horse and greyhound racing than it did to the Sports Council which must finance the sports people actually participate in. They're axing sports capital grants, which will leave a lot of projects up and down the country in trouble, but they'll always be able to find the money for horse racing. Horse racing's defenders invoke some kind of mystic connection between the Irish soul and the gee gees to defend this blatant injustice. Yet the explanation for it is a bit more down to earth. There are people who matter in this country and people who don't. The people who matter have their favourite banks nationalised, their debts picked up by the state and their hobby subsidised. Horse racing is the ultimate Golden Circle pursuit and I would bet a large sum that among the ten people whose identity is being protected by the Government are a few with connections in horse racing. Meanwhile, the poor stay unhealthy, people drive many miles out of their way to find a sports hall or a swimming pool for their kids and nothing changes. Because, in the end, our politicians like to be seen in the winner's enclosure at Cheltenham or sitting with the President in Croke Park. There's just not the same glory to be had cutting the tape at the opening of a sports complex, though that might do a great deal more for the general well-being. What can we do? Well, next time they come looking for votes, we could ask them how they justify funding the rich man's hobby when the poor man hasn't a pot to piss in sports wise. In the meantime, there is one sporting event which I think would do wonders for national morale, Brian Cowen and Brian Lenihan being coursed up the hill in Clonmel. They could wear their county jerseys and the winner could take on the winner of the buckle between Brian Goggin and Seanie FitzPatrick. We might leave the muzzles off the dogs for that one. thephotograph@hotmail.com 
