sport football
{  
    January 29 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/why-well-always-need-an-irwin-26127618.html }
A TRUE PRO BOWS OUT Denis Irwin pulled the plug on his international career this week, a decision which will be lamented by all Irish soccer fans. Jerome Reilly on the decline of professional sport and why we still need sporting heroes like Irwin In this shabby era of football sleaze, of nightclub brawls, rampant drink and drug abuse, wife beating, alleged bribes, gambling, three-in-the-bed sex romps and all the other tawdry revelations linked to the once beautiful game, Denis Joseph Irwin is a beacon, a true sporting hero. And we will always need sporting heroes like Dinny, someone whose innate class and inbuilt decency transcends the corrupt, unsavoury, grotesque freak show which professional sport has become. This was the week that the convicted rapist and woman beater Mike Tyson was feted and adored and held up as a worthy icon for the black community in Britain. This was the week when this violent sex attacker who likes biting the bodily parts of his opponents received bunches of flowers from Manchester children innocent dupes in the masquerade of photo opportunities stage-managed to further fatten Rupert Murdoch's already obese bank balance. In the same city where Iron Mike will ply his sad, dishonest and, at this juncture, almost pitiful trade for a few pay per view moments tonight, Irwin, for more than a decade, has done a job as honest as the day is long. Irwin has every honour in club football in a 10 medal haul secured with Manchester United but there are others who have the same riches in their personal trophy cabinet. But personal glory is not the point. At a time when football has been sullied and besmirched from within, when two of its most promising young talents look likely to be charged with a racial attack in which a young Asian man was beaten unconscious Irwin's conduct has always been exemplary. That's why true sports fans will lament his decision to make himself unavailable to play in the green of Ireland. Like everything in Irwin's life the decision was made without fanfare or fuss or controversy or gnashing of teeth despite some half-hearted and spiteful attempts to portray the retirement as the poisonous culmination of a feud between the Corkman and manager Mick McCarthy. The Manchester United defender admit ted he was retiring because he wanted to spend more time with his family. ``I'm quitting because of the time demands on international footballers nowadays. ``I've three young kids: Liam (7), Lauren (4) and Katie, who is almost two, and I want to spend more time with them and my wife Jackie.'' Professional sport should be about values, of the team effort above selfish glory hunting, of dignity in defeat and modesty in victory. Irwin is a throwback to a time when those values meant something. Youngsters, above all, need role models and the lessons of humility and self knowledge which competitive sport inevitably brings, from the playground to the world's biggest stadia. Learning to cope with a crushing defeat in a schools cup final provides as valuable a lesson in the vicissitudes of life, as the 13 years in the classroom coming to terms with algebra and geography. And watching the dignity with which Irwin has carried himself over the years is a bright light in the otherwise ghastly descent into circus that soccer and sport in general have become. In a flawless career with Manchester United Irwin has scored some cracking goals. But for him the idea of taking off his shirt and diving on the ground in flamboyant celebration would be simply embarrassing. Irwin's style harks back to the days when the most a footballer could expect from his teammates was a manly shake of the hand on the way back to the centre circle. It's said that the least popular name youngsters at the Manchester United Superstore want emblazoned on the back of the 13th new kit of the decade is Irwin. That just shows how far things have slipped. Maybe it's because he isn't married to a pop star, is never seen on chat shows, has not been a frequent visitor to the Priory Treatment Centre for alcohol or drug abuse and is unlikely to be the instigator of a bar-room ball. Irwin's accomplishments will always be confined to the back pages of the tabloids not the splash story on the front. He lives modestly and drives a BMW, not a flash sportscar. He still tries to get to the Munster Hurling final every year usually in the company of another sporting gent Niall Quinn, who he first met in Croke Park when they played against each other in an under 12 tournament. But while Irwin has been a worthy exception. the sharp decline in sport in the last decade has been manifest revelations of widescale drug abuse in the search for performance enhancement in cycling, swimming, athletics, weightlifting, a lot of these revelations uncomfortably close to home. It's enough to make parents think carefully about encouraging their youngster to get serious about sport. Soccer, the honest working man's game, has been similarly infected with corruption and low standards. Paul Gascoigne ``My tears for En-gur-land,'' ``My battle with the bulge,'' ``My battle with the booze and kebabs,'' ``My battle with Sheryl which left her with a black eye.'' Paul Merson: ``My battle with the booze, the drugs and the gambling'' Stan Collymore: ``Why I gave Ulkrika a slap.'' Nicholas Anelka: `` I'd rather play with my Nintendo than play for Arsenal.'' David Beckham: ``I'll wear my wife's knickers if I want to.'' Glenn Hoddle: ``Disabled people must have done something in a previous life.'' Amongst the sullen, dim and idle ranks of so called professional footballers Irwin stands out because he really is Mr Dependable. How many true sporting heroes have we had in the past 25 years? Irwin belongs to the that small coterie of truly great sportsmen and women, athletes like Ed Moses, Mary Peters and our own John Treacy, footballers like Gary Linekar and Pele, motor racing's Jackie Stewart who was vilified for trying to make his sport safe and Muhammed Ali, who laid his career on the line because he didn't want to fight the North Vietnamese. Irwin's colleague Andy Cole singled him out for special praise recently and his comments are perceptive: ``He's an incredible player. For sheer consistency as a first team player during the 1990s there has been nobody like him. ``I can't remember him having a single lousy game during that time and I don't think any left back in the country has come close to matching Denis's week in, week-out standard of play. You never witness him getting a chasing. ``Why? Well Denis still has a fair amount of pace still left and the old head to get himself out of trouble but the key point is that he always has his covering angles just right - such a quality player with the added bonus that he rarely gets injured.'' In his recent autobiography Alex Ferguson noted: ``Nowhere in football is there a more popular player than the unassuming Irishman who is the ultimate professional, one of those quiet underpraised heroes who form the bedrock of all great teams.. He is just about the most reliable professional footballer on our books at Old Trafford. High and deserved praise which should be enough to make Irwin a true sporting hero for the people of this country. But more importantly this impeccable level of performance was carried out with minimum fuss, without a low blow or a snide tackle or a foul mouth of expletives or a temper tantrum with opponent or referee. Irwin has epitomised high standards in low places.  He has been a true professional to the core and the Republic of Ireland set up will be all the poorer after his retirement. We need true sporting heroes like Denis Joseph Irwin. 
