sport football
{ Sinéad Kissane 
    December 28 2019 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/columnists/sinead-kissane-womens-sport-needs-to-rid-itself-of-double-standards-38817350.html }
When USA soccer star Alex Morgan scored the decisive goal in their FIFA Women's World Cup semi-final win over England last July, she celebrated by pretending to sip a cup of tea with her little finger sticking out.  Offence was inevitably taken and Morgan's tea-drinking was slammed for mocking dear old England, although it wasn't too hard to escape the notion she was really being slammed for acting in a manner unpalatable to some people's tea-cup-sized idea of how a female player should act. Morgan wasn't having it. "I feel that there is some sort of double standard for females in sport, to feel like we have to be humble in our successes and have to celebrate but not too much, do something but it always has to be in a limited fashion," Morgan argued. "You see men celebrating all over the world in big tournaments, grabbing their sacks or whatever it is." There is a different kind of double standard required for the development of women's sport: the need to treat women's sport the same as men's sport, and the need to treat women's sport differently to men's sport. When the USA players celebrated every goal in their 13-0 thrashing of Thailand at the World Cup, the players were criticised for their arrogance with a view that if a men's team acted the same way they would have been slated. Hammer  That opinion is all fine and well if the starting point for men and women is the same. But the women's USA team have been fighting US Soccer for equal pay, so who could blame them for using the biggest stage to hammer home their value. Last month, the judge in their gender discrimination lawsuit against US Soccer granted the players 'class status' which was seen as an important victory to support their claim that they are subjected to unequal working conditions and pay. When it comes to women's sport, there's nearly always a bigger picture to fight for. This past year female athletes have also exposed the discrimination they had to endure for pregnancy. In May, American athletes Alysia Montano and Kara Goucher broke non-disclosure agreements to reveal how Nike and other sports companies punished pregnant athletes by cutting their pay until they returned to competition. Allyson Felix revealed in another 'New York Times' interview that she had "asked Nike to contractually guarantee that I wouldn't be punished if I didn't perform at my best in the months surrounding childbirth... Nike declined". After being publicly forced into it, Nike said it will add language into contracts that will protect pay during pregnancy, although, naturally, scepticism remains. This is the same Nike who loves dropping content promoting gender equality. Hypocrisy is too weak a word to use here. Earlier this month, Sport Ireland confirmed its new maternity policy for carded athletes which states it will "continue funding" for "12 months to an athlete who becomes pregnant as well as a comprehensive system of supports available to female athletes". Undoubtedly, this is progress for Irish athletes (while it also left you wondering why it's taken so long for a policy like this to be put in place). It also highlights the value of women in decision-making positions, with Lynne Cantwell, Nora Stapleton and Niamh O'Sullivan in Sport Ireland among those who helped bring this much-needed protection into policy. Now, compare this to the four Nike executives who negotiate contracts for American track and field athletes. They're all men. Diversity should be a non-negotiable in decision-making positions in sport. As Felix said about pay-cuts from sponsors during pregnancy: "It's one example of a sports industry where the rules are still mostly made for and by men." As women's sport grows, the way it's being framed needs to be reviewed to match that evolution. This year, there were increases in attendance figures for the women's All-Ireland football final (56,114) and All-Ireland camogie final (24,730). There is a merit to these numbers being acknowledged. But when it comes to the overall picture, they can represent a false economy. It's something Dublin ladies football manager Mick Bohan noted recently. "The first thing I'll say is I'm actually getting tired of this record crowd number, that's begun to grate on me," Bohan said last month. "Because it's one day... but 95 per cent of the time these girls play in front of empty stadiums." Bohan also said that his three-in-a-row All-Ireland-winning Dublin team want to take the game to a new level. "As we've said to our group right from the start, there's an onus of responsibility on them to produce a spectacle that people come to watch, that they enjoy," Bohan added. "The All-Ireland final didn't produce that, we were very aware of that, and that would have been a sense of disappointment for us, in spite of the fact we were successful." Wanting his players to play with a style and skill that spectators would enjoy and taking "that responsibility on ourselves" is admirable from Bohan and his players. But is it too much responsibility for one team to take on? Again, there's a bigger picture at play here for these women while attracting spectators to a game is not something their male counterparts have to burden themselves with. The ultimate responsibility to develop players from a young age lies with the Ladies Gaelic Football Association (LGFA) which, as Bohan rightly pointed out, needs to "go under the one umbrella" with the GAA. Seriously, how long more is this separation between the Camogie Association, the LGFA and the GAA going to continue? What president is going to finally unite all three? While the LGFA continue to use 'ladies' as opposed to 'women' in its title, 2019 saw World Rugby decide to remove gender entirely from tournament names in the future, which is a first for a major sporting federation. World Rugby believes this will "elevate the profile of the women's game, while eliminating any inherent or perceived bias toward men's only competitions and tournaments". However, what this really comes off as is: we don't want to put the word 'women' in the title in case it turns people off so we're going to hide the gender from you. It's such a regressive move, as if the word 'women' is something to be embarrassed about. Reclaim As stated before, we need to reclaim the word 'women' in sport, not disregard it, but be proud of it. It was the same for the FIFA Women's World Cup with complaints about why the word 'women' is included in the title. Hiding the word 'women' in a title sandbags the idea that the women-in-sport topic can be a murky minefield. For example, it's understandable why there might be a fear to criticise a display from the Ireland women's team after the revelations of unequal treatment by the FAI a few years ago. But when it comes to on-pitch performances, they're now setting their own standard. After they conceded a late goal in their drawn Euro 2021 qualifier in Greece, manager Vera Pauw gave a frank assessment and urged her team to become more "streetwise". Advocacy is important but women's sport also requires a critique and assessment the same as men. If that's not done, then we get the kind of double standard that is a disservice to women because they're not being held to account to themselves. And women in sport deserve better than that. Indo Sport 
