sport football
{  
    July 26 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27360037.html }
The Asdee area has always had a reputation for its diversity in sport with a wide range of different sports being enjoyed here down through the decades.While Gaelic Football and soccer have deep roots in the area for many decades the game of hurling was played at Littor Strand while cricket was played at the school field at the local handball alley.Of course handball was an The Asdee area has always had a reputation for its diversity in sport with a wide range of different sports being enjoyed here down through the decades. While Gaelic Football and soccer have deep roots in the area for many decades the game of hurling was played at Littor Strand while cricket was played at the school field at the local handball alley. Of course handball was an extremely popular game in Asdee for many decades with the area producing some excellent exponents of the game. Sadly this game went into decline during the 1980's and now a handball alley which was the life and soul of the young people for so many generations is silent and gone into a serious state of disrepair. Boxing also enjoyed a lot of popularity here during the 1980's with the local Shannonside Boxing Club spearheaded by Don Lyodd doing a lot to promote the sport in the district. Unfortunately when Don Lyodd took his leave of the area interest in the sport dried up. Now young aspiring children of the area will have a new sport at their disposal with junior Jockey training to commence in Asdee on Saturday July 5th. The venue is the new soccer grounds at Craughdarrig and it will continue every Saturday from 10am to 11 30am. The training is for both boys and girls with the first 45 minutes for children in the 5 , 6 and 7 age bracket and for the second 45 minutes for children in the 8 , 9 and 10 age group. Children are asked to bring their PE gear with them and hockey sticks will be provided. The Training course is being conducted by Dave Griffin of Littor Road who has the proud distinction of play the game at national level. A native of Dublin Dave and his wife Rebecca moved to their new house beside Littor Strand a number of years ago and took to the area like a duck to water from the very outset. Dave is involved in the I.T. Industry while his wife Rebecca is a renowned artist who has her own art studio in at Littor Road. MINKS ON THE PROWL: Pet and Fowl owners in the area and asked to be very vigilant as a major infiltration of the prey animal the mink has occurred in the parish. The animal which is native to the United States is a lethal predator and can kill any kind of pet animals or fowl and has also devastated the song bird population of the area. Minks are known for their rich glossy fur and are a highly aggressive predator that live a solitary nocturnal lifestyle and prey on a wide variety of animals and birds. The animal resembles a weasel and is notorious for its sneaky methods of preying on fowl, animals and birds. Local fowler John Roche of Tullahinell told me that the minks is very active in the area and can kill larger birds such as turkeys, ducks and geese as well as rabbits and hares. Efforts to re stock the pheasant population f the area has also been hampered as they have already killed 8 pheasants on a local farmers land. The animal travels via rivers, waterways and seas and when they settle in to an area can procreate at a rapid pace. John Roche has already managed to trap two minks and is asking everyone in the area to ensure their pets and fowl are securely housed, The minx is a much more cunning predator than a fox and it is important that they are eliminated to safeguard the fowl and bird population of the area. GALE CEMETERY MASS The biggest congregation in many years attended the annual Mass at Gale Cemetery which took place on last Thursday evening in sweltering heat. The chief celebrant was Fr John Lawlor and he was assisted by Fr Sean Dillon. In his homily Fr Lawlor commended the faith of all present and offered prayers for everyone that is laid to rest at the cemetery. He said at a time when Ireland was named as the second richest country in the world often time when the faith declined and was good to see it so strong in the area. He paid tribute to the local graveyard committee for the excellent job they do maintaining the burial grounds. The ceremony was greatly enhanced by the musical and vocal contributions of Steven Donegan and the melodic harmonies of the local choir. LADIES GET THE WEST AWAKE: The fine weather got the ladies of the local I.C.A. in their rambling ways on Friday when they headed cross channel on their annual outing which this year was to Clare and the West of Ireland. A sizeable touring party headed out from the village on an ideal day for sight seeing. Their first port of call was in the Banner County where they enjoyed morning tea in Ennis. Then it was poetry in motion as they visited the birth place of noted Irish poet William Butler Yeats. Later in the evening their let their hair down in Galway City when they engaged in a shopping expedition at Galway Shopping Centre. ST. PIO PRAYER MEETING: The local St. Pio Prayer Group will hold their monthly Prayer Meeting at St. Mary's Church on Thursday night August 3rd at 7pm followed by Mass at 8pm. LISLAUGHTIN OPEN AIR MASS: The Annual Open Air Mass at Lislaughtin Cemetery will be celebrated on Wednesday August 2nd at 8pm. DAISY CHAINS OPEN DAY: The Daisy Chains Pre School Group in Asdee are holding an Open Day at the Community Centre on next Sunday July 30th from 3pm to 5pm. All parents of children between the ages of 2 years and 9 months to 5 years are invited to attend. Everyone will be able to see for themselves the fine facilities that are in place at the local pre school and they will have an opportunity to ask questions. Light refreshments will be served and parents from neighbouring parishes are also very welcome to attend. The Daisy Chain Pre School Group was established at the local community centre a number of years ago and in the intervening time it has provided a much needed service for parents in the area. As well as meeting the needs of the community it is also providing a bit of local employment. The pre school will be back to class again in September so now is the time for parents to weigh up the benefits of sending their children to pre school and give them a great learning experience prior to staring at the local national school. POPULATION DOWN IN ASDEE: While the statistics from the 2006 Census shows the population of the country on the increase that is not the case in Asdee with a population decrease of 26 since the last Census in 2002. The population of Asdee in 2002 was 528 but this year it has dropped to 502. This has been reflected at the local National School with a decline in children numbers in recent years. However things are looking much better as a baby boom over the past couple of months should go in a major way to address this decreasing trend. One of the reasons cited for Asdee not recording a population increase in the fact that no private housing schemes have been developed in the proximity of the village which is contrary to the common trend throughout the county. New housing schemes and apartments bring in a lot of people into urban areas but this trend has not taken place in Asdee. QUIZ FOR LISTOWEL HOSPICE: A Charity Table Quiz in aid of the Listowel Hospice will be held at Gerry O' Connors Bar Main Street, Ballylongford on Friday night July 28th commencing at 9.15pm. Not as previously advertised for August 4th. NEW ARRIVAL: Congratulations to Geraldine and Mike O Connor of Kilcolman on becoming the proud parents of a bouncing baby boy during the week. The new arrival is hale and hearty and his grandmother Hannah is as proud as punch on becoming a grand mother for the very first time. LOTTO FEVER: National Lotto fever reached fever proportions in the area on Sunday with the news that the Jackpot ticket of in excess of ?4.8 was purchased at Heaphy' s Supermarket in Ballylongford. Everyone in the area that invested in quick pick tickets on Saturday were rushing to check their numbers on Sunday and by the time that this column goes to press the identity of the multi million Jackpot should be known. HIGH NOTES AT THE STORE: Entertainment reached very high notes at The Store during the week with a surprise visit by Anthony Kerins of The Three Tenors. Fresh from their hugely successful musical program on RTE the well known tenor delighted the large audience with his majestic voice. Anthony was accompanied by Brian Carr of Lisselton who is a widely acclaimed baritone singer. Locals were not shy in joining in on the act with Joe Edgeworth of Littor Road giving great entertainment value with his fine Irish ballads all delivered in his own inimitable way. MUSIC: The Flight of Earls play at The Store on this Friday night at 10pm where another great night of musical entertainment is guaranteed. CHILDREN'S COMPUTER CAMPS: Because of the outstanding success of THE Community I.T. Summer Camps, a further Camp for children between the ages of 8 and 16 will take place at the centres in Tarbert and Ballybunion. This camp will commence on Monday 21st August. To avoid disappointment, phone Tarbert on 068-36938 or Ballybunion on 068-28888. GOLF OUTING: There was a mixed bag of weather for the local Golf Societies Outing at Ballyheigue on last Saturday. Those that teed off early had some rain to contend with over the first 9 holes but after this the day turned out very pleasant. There was a very satisfactory turnout for the scramble competition and some very good scores were recorded. The outright winners were Jimmy Quinn and Anthony Garvey, 2nd Sheila Ahern and Joe Rice, 3rd Paddy Holly and Mike Rice. The next outing is at The Gap of Dunloe on Saturday August 26th. ASDEE ROVERS A.G.M.: The 30th Annual General Meeting of the Asdee Rovers Soccer Club was held at the clubhouse in Craughdarrig on Friday night. It was an occasion to reflect on matters both on and off the field of play over the past 12 months and plan ahead for the new season in an optimistic frame of mind. There was a packed agenda to cover on the night and the outgoing chairman Joe Dee kept proceedings moving in a very swift and efficient manner. In his concise chairman's address Joe Dee thanked all his fellow officers for their hard work and co - operation during the year and all the dedicated people that looked after the senior and underage teams He said the results on the field of play during the year by the senior team were very encouraging and with proper preparations and better commitment from more players the team have the ability to challenge for promotion next season. Club secretary Sean O Keeffe gave a detailed report on matters on and off the field of play and paid tribute to everyone that is supporting the club's fund - raising activities. He thanked all those that support the club's weekly lotto, which is the club's main source of revenue for the year. He thanked the clubs leading lotto ticket seller Ivan Tydings for all his hard work during the year calling door to door selling tickets. He said that a lot of progress had been made with upgrading the clubs facilities in recent years and the club has come a long way over the past 30 years. He briefed everyone on the big development plan which is now being finalised and will include the development of a second playing pitch at the grounds in Craughdarrig. The club were very fortunate to be allocated a grant of ?70,000 from the Lottery Funding and this will now be utilised to bring the development project to fruition. Work on the levelling and draining of the new pitch will commence in the fall of the year and it will be competed and the grass seeds sewn next Spring. To date the club has spent in excess of ?200,000 on the new grounds in Craughdarrig and a considerable amount of that money has been raised at local level thanks to the generosity of the local community. The Soccer grounds have been kept in pristine condition this year thanks to the very efficient work of the pitch caretaker Sean Whyte. He has kept the pitch well manicured and is doing a lot of work at the clubhouse also. The well presented treasurer's report showed that competing in the Kerry League delves heavily into the purse strings of the club but once again the club's fund - raising activities ensured that the club are able to meet all their financial commitments. When it came to the election of officers all outgoing officers were elected unopposed. However the team will have a new manager for the new season as Patrick O Brien has stepped down after a very good year in charge of the team obtaining a lot of great support and assistance from Fintan Henry. Patrick gave the job total commitment and dedication and in a difficult and time consuming post won the respect and admiration of all the panel pf players. His position was not filled on the night but the post is expected to be filled by this coming weekend. The officers elected were chairman, Joe Dee, vice Chairman Mike Moloney, Secretary Sean O Keeffe, Assistant Secretary Donie O Keeffe, Treasurers Eamon Collins and Mike Creed, P.R.O. Mike Rice. Delegated to the County Board Leo O Donoghue and Mike Creed. Following the election of officers a lively and frank debate took place at which many new ideas and suggestions were put forward and all will be given due consideration by the newly elected committee. A firm commitment was given to continue looking after underage players for the year ahead and t is planned to enter both an under 12 and under 14 team in the Kerry Schoolboys League. The official opening of the new soccer grounds are scheduled for next summer so a busy year lies ahead as the finishing touches are applied to the new pitch and clubhouse. The good news for young players in the area is that consideration is being given to fielding a B team in the Kerry District League next season. The idea was put forward by Mike Vallely and a final decision will be taken at a meeting of the club on this Friday night. At present a panel of players is being drawn up for the team and iff sufficient players are interested in becoming involved the team is likely to get the green light this coming weekend. IMPORTANT MEETING: A very important meeting of the Asdee Rovers Soccer Club will be held at the clubhouse in Craughdarrig on this Friday night July 28th at 9pm. Top of the agenda will be naming a management team for the new season and discussing the possibility of entering a B team in the Kerry District League next season. 5 A SIDE BLITZ: A 5 a side Soccer Blitz will be held at Craughdarrig Park on bank - holiday Monday August 7th beginning at 12 noon. Names with ?5 to be handed in to Joe Dee by this Friday night July 28th. The teams and fixtures will be finalised at a meeting of the club at the clubhouse in Craughdarrig on this Friday night at 9pm. Already the competition has aroused a huge amount of local interest and a number of players are planning to return from retirement for the occasion. Rumour has it that Mike Doyle and Tom Gorman have been dusting the cobwebs off their football boots during the week while others are testing out their fitness levels to see if they will line out for the eagerly awaited competition. SCHOOLBOYS LEAGUE: An important meeting of the local Schoolboys League Soccer League Committee will be held at the clubhouse in Craughdarrig on this Thursday night July 27th at 8 30pm. LOTTO: The Asdee Rovers Weekly Lottery Draw was held at Jack J's on Sunday night and the Jackpot was not won. The numbers drawn were 7 - 11 - 20 - 24. The lucky Dip prize winners were ?50 Des Grant, Doon, East Ballybunion, ?25 Eamon O Connor, Kilcolman, ?25 Tom Gorman, Clounamon. Next week's draw will be held at Jesse James Tavern and the Jackpot is ?5,900 G.A.A.: A very important and historic weekend on the local football front for two of Asdee's finest footballers, its the All Ireland Minor Championship Quarter Final involving Kerry and Mayo. In charge of the Minor squad will be three times All Ireland senior championship medal holder John Kennedy and to make it a special weekend for the Kennedy family son Eoin is also a member of the Kerry minor squad Eoin has played in all of games to date and scored a vital point in the first round victory over Tipperary, This score came at a vital stage of the contest as Kerry were struggling to hold on to a two point lead he obtained the crucial score which secured a win. Eoin will have an important role in the poroceedingsagain on Sunday, so everyone joins in wishing both John and Eoin the best of luck. The game will be played at Cusack Park in Ennis on Sunday with a starting time of 2 pm. This is part of a very attractive double bill at the Clare venue, Kerry Juniors will take on Roscommon in the All Ireland Junior Final proceeding the Minor game. This will have a 3pm throw in time best wishes go to Jeremy King of Beale who will be lining out with the Kerry Juniors. DRAW: Tickets sales having been in great demand over the past number of weeks for the Asdee G A A Club draw. Again to remind anyone that wishes to join and has not been contacted yet should contact any member of the club and they will be looked after. The subscription is only ?20 which will cover the three monthly draws. The Prizes are 1st ?200 2nd ?100 and 3rd ?50. There will be plenty spot prizes to be given away each night of the draw. first of the draws is scheduled to go ahead on this Saturday night at Jack Jays. CHUCRCH GATE COLLECTION: The Asdee G.A.A. club s annual Church Gate Collection will be taken up at all the weekends Masses. Good local support would be very much appreciated INTERMEDIATE CHAMPIONSHIP: The draw for the North Kerry Intermediate Championship took place at the recent North Kerry Board Meeting and the tie of the round would have to be the clash of last years finalists Clounmacon and Asdee in round 1. This is sure to attract plenty of interest with Asdee hoping to reverse last years result. The full first round draw is as follows, Listowel Emmets v Moyvane Tarbert v Beale Ballyduff v Desmonds and Asdee v Clounmacon. Dates and venues will be decided by a fixtures meeting of the board with the most likely date being 12/13 August. FLASHBACK: In 1939 Beale started a Junior team and had a remarkable run of victories and defeated Listowel in the final which was played on Easter Sunday 1940. Asdee provided star performers in Jim O Carroll, Eddie and Johnny O Hanlon John McElligott Harry Reidy and the famous Jack Moriarty who was coaxed out of retirement for this game and scored the only goal of the game. This was his last game and the end of a career that began in 1910. The club P R O Jack Hennessy had the distinction of representing his County at both Football and hurling, On the hurling front he lined out with the Kerry Vocational Hurling team that were defeated by Limerick in the first round of the Munster Championship played at Askeaton while on the football scene he played at right half back on the Kerry Vocational team beaten by Fermanagh in the All Ireland Final. This game was played in Croke Park and preceded the National Hurling League Final between Tipperary and Kilkenny. When the Australian Rules football team made a world tour in 1968 they had their first game in Fitzgerald Stadium Killarney on Sunday October 20th. Paud and the late Eamon O Donoghue of Kilcolman were playing members of the Kerry Senior Football team NOVICE SHIELD: The Asdee senior team advanced to the next round of the County Novice Shield at Walsh Park on Saturday evening with a facile 26 point winning margin over Knockanure. The game began 35 minutes behind schedule and on the consent of both teams it was agreed to play just 25 minutes a side. However the game failed to go the full distance as with just 15 minutes into the second half after representation from of the Knockanure club match referee Stephen Mulvihill blew the final whistle with still ten minutes to go in the game. From the very outset this was a mis match with the visitors far too weak to challenge an eager Asdee side. The game as a contest was over at half time with Asdee holding a commanding lead of 3 - 8 to 0 - 1 with Knockanure taking a full 14 minutes to register a score. Asdee maintained their overall supremacy in the second half and further goals from Paul O Carroll and Cyril Dineen put them on line for a huge winning margin. However Knockanure was spared further embarrassment when the game came to a premature ending. Asdee leaned very little from this one sided game but they done what was required of them and can now look forward to the next round with realistic ambitions of going all the way in the competition. However the facts that unfolded at this game done little to enhance the image of this particular competition and Asdee can expect a much sterner test in the next round. Team and scorers James Kelly Eamon O Connor David O Connor Sean Stack Jason McElligott Brian O Hanlon Noel Long John Doran Padraig Ruddle (0 - 1), Niall Doran Miche†l Walsh (0 - 1) Charles Dalton (1 - 1) Brian Coughlan (2 - 1) Cyril Dineen (1 - 6) Paul O Carroll (2 - 0) Sub Donal O Carroll. The final score was Asdee 6 - 10 Knockanure 0 - 3 LISLAUGHTIN OPEN AIR MASS: The Annual Open Air Mass at Lislaughtin Cemetery will be celebrated on Wednesday August 2nd at 8pm. Ballyduff Lotto: The results of the Ballyduff Community Games and Lady's Walk Hurling Club weekly Lotto Draw are as follows; The numbers drawn were 3, 7, 13 , 22. There was no jackpot winner and the following won ?50 each: Eileen O'Connor , Addergown. John Bookey , Leigh. Olivia Dineen , Ballyhorgan. TV DRAW: Noan Condon , The Cashen. Norma Lane , Duagh. Liam Boyle (Snr) , Ballincrossig. Golf Society: The results of the recent outing to Ballybunion Golf Club by the Ballyduff Golf Society are as follows: 1st. Mike Houlihan 10 39pts 2nd Bobby O'Sullivan 14 35pts 3rd Pat Sullivan 16 35pts 4th Sean Kennelly 11 35pts The results of the Waterville outing are as follows: 1st Mike Kennelly 8 38pts 2nd Pat Ryan 17 37pts 3rd Mike Jones 15 35pts 4th David Walsh 8 34pts Captain's Prize: On saturday next July 29th The Ballyduff Golf Society will hold its Captain Prize at Newcastlewest Golf Club. The tee times are reserved from 10.30am to 12.30pm. All those intending participating in this event must have their name with the Society Secretary on (066) 7131806 by this Thursday July 27th to guarantee a slot on the time sheet. Graveyard Mass: The annual Graveyard Mass will be celebrated at Rahela Cemetry on this Thursday July 27th at 8.00pm. Everybody welcome. Farm Tour: The Ballyduff Farm Tourto Co. Cork will leave The Square , Ballyduff on this Friday morning Juky 28th at 9.00am. For further details please contact (085) 1306613 or (087) 2966635. Seanchaí Centre: The Summertime Theatre at Listowel Castle continues on this Saturday July 29th with the Fanzini Brothers , The West Kery Italians who perform a comedy interactive skill show. Commencing at 1.30pm and admission is free. Contact the Seanchaí Centre, Listowel for more details on (068) 22212. Collection: A big Thank You to all those who supported the recent church taken up at all masses in Ballyduff. The total amount collected was 975. Thanks also to all those aho helped take up the collection. Taekwondo: Congratulations to Gerry Fitzgerald , Kilmore , Ballyduff who returned from the ITF European Taekwondo Championships held in Wetzlar , Germany with two Gold Medals. In the 18+ catergory he won the white-green belt- sparring title as well as winning Gold in the white-green patterns. On his way to the final Gerry defeated Russia in the semi-final before accounting for England in the the European decider. Gerry is son of Michael and Joan Fitzgerald. U14 Hurling: The Ballyduff U14 hurlers had a comprehensive 4 - 14 to 1 - 6 victory over Abbeydorney in the North Kerry " Michael Hennessy Memorial" U14 Hurling League at Abbeydorney on Thursday of last week. Team and Scorers; Nicholas Leen, Nicholas Burke, Keith O'Carroll, Kevin O'Grady, David Goulding, Jason Bowler, Dean O'Grady, athal White (1-2), Eric OConnor (0-2), Pat Joe Connolly (0-2), Pádraig Boyle (1-3), Anthony O'Carroll (0-1), Kevin O'Connor (2-3), Liam O'Brien, Evan Doyle. Subs: Pádraig Slattery, Jonathan Ross, Kieran O'Grady. U16 News: Ballyduff u16 hurlers and footballers were in action over the last week. The football team had a 5-9 to 3-6 victory over Bally/Asdee in the County U16 Football League at the local sportsfield on Wednesday of last week. On Saturday last they played Abbeydorney in the County U16 Hurling League but were defeated 1-16 to 0-9 despite playing some excellent hurling. The stronger Abbeydorney pulled away in the second half with the wind to their backs. The following players were involved in both games; Nicholas Leen, Michael Hussey, Pádraig Hussey, Thomas Slattery, Aidan O'Carroll, Anto Griffin, Cathal White, Jason Bowler, Keith O'Carroll, Kevin O'Carroll, Kevin O'Connor, Mikie Flavin, Pádraig Boyle, Pat Joe Connolly, Dean O'Grady,Anthony O'Carroll, Kieran Griffin. Senior Football - Ballyduff senior footballers were defeated by Beale in the Buildstone North Kerry Senior Football League Final on a scoreline of 1-16 to 1-6 at Listowel on Sunday evening lasy. (Full report in the sports section) Fixtures Wednesday July 26th County U16 Football League Glenflesk V Ballyduff at Glenflesk 7.30pm Thursday July 27th North Kerry U13 Hurling KilmoyleyV Ballyduff at Lerrig 6.30pm Friday July 28th County Junior Football League Div 4 semi-final Ballyduff V Churchill at Mountcoal 7.30pm (E.T) Monday July 31st County SHL Division 1 Causeway V Ballyduff at Causeway 7.30pm Wednesday August 2nd County U16 Hurling League Annascaul V Ballyduff at Annascaul 7.30pm As always patrons are asked to check with GAA Personell before travelling to any OF THE ABOVE FIXTURES. Death; The death took place of Margaret (Peg) Ferris, Rattoo, Ballyduff. Her remains were removed from Lawlor's Funeral Home to SS Peter's and Paul's Church Ballyduff. Internment was in Rahela Cemetry. Sympathy is extended to her relatives and friends. Camp FEILE NA N-OG: KDYS Feile na n-Og/Youth Fest will be held this Saturday evening in Camp Community Field and Centre. Events include Fun sports activities, Tug-o-War and finishing with a disco. Children under 12 must be accompanied by an adult. Admission E3.00. Strictly no alcohol. Events begin at 6.30 p.m. and finish at 9.00 p.m. HARNESS RACING: A very successful Harness Racing event was held at The Junction, Camp on Sunday last. Attracting racing enthusiasts from all over Munster, in blazing sunshine John Deane's field was the perfect setting and the punters enjoyed a great day with plenty of excitement and sometimes surprises in the winning stakes. Congratulations to organising committee - Chairman: Tom Herlihy, Secretary : Christy Deane, Treasurers: Moss Trant and Mike Fitzgerald. WEDDING: Congratulations to Catherine Dineen, Daughter of Pat and Joan Dineen, Upper Camp and Victor Sheahan, Son of Jim and Nora Sheahan, Millstream House, Greenville, Listowel who were married last Saturday at St. Mary's Chruch Camp. Fr. Brendan Walsh, PP Annascaul officiated. The reception was held at the Brandon Hotel, Tralee. The couple will reside in Camp. Catherine and Victor are off on a honeymoon of a lifetime on the Star Princess, Cruise liner with stops at St. Petersborough, Copenhagen, Oslo and Iceland to name but a few fascinating destinations. Best of luck to Catherine and Victor in their life together. THANK YOU: All notes writers for this newspaper were acknowledged recently with a wonderful reception at Stokers Lodge, Tralee by The Kerryman. It was great to meet and chat with fellow contributors. Thanks to the Editor and staff and all involved in organising the night. I enjoyed it tremendously. 
