sport football
{  
    April 10 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27369387.html }
Loughill/Ballyhahill GAA LOTTO: No jackpot winner. Numbers drawn 1, 5, 25, 27, April 6. Lucky dip winners, ?70 J Moriarty, Foynes, ?30 each John Curtin, Ballyhahill, Joe McGrath, Turraree, ?15 Con Ambrose, Loughill. Promoters prize ?15 Chris OSullivan. Next weeks draw, April 13, Knockdown Arms. New jackpot ?9,020. BALLY ROVERS SOCCER LOTTO: There was no winner of the jackpot on Tuesday night last. The numbers drawn were 4, 7, 13, 25. Lucky dip winners, ?75 John McAuliffe, Athea, ?30 Geraldine Clifford, Ballyhahill, Nicole Gammell, Pallasgreen, ?15 each Eoin Thornton, Tennekilla, Ballyhahill, Mary P O’Hanlon, Ballyhahill. Ten free tickets, Donal Dineen, Ardagh, promoters prize, Thomas Ambrose. Next weeks jackpot will be ?4,050 and the draw takes place at O’Farrells Bar, Ballyhahill. Mountcollins CARDS: The winners of first prize at last weeks card game in the Community Centre were Bernard McCarthy, Denis O’Sullivan and Eamon Sheehan. In second place was the team of Jack O’Connor, Jim Leahy and Phil Curtin. The table prizewinners were Betty Brosnan, Ciss Halsey and Kathleen Lenihan. The winner of the door prize was Anita Danaher and raffle prizes went to Lena O’Connor, Brian Flannery and Liam Lane. Cards as usual on this Thursday night at 9pm. FÉILE CHEOIL: Mountcollins Féile Cheoil committee met recently to set in motion plans for this years event, in mid July. An application to West Limerick Resources Ltd for funding has again proved positive. We have received a generous grant which will go a long way towards funding the week-end activities, and the committee wish to thank WLR for their valuable sponsorship. RETIREMENT FUNCTION: Noreen and Patrick Naughton who recently retired from the Post Office and grocery business in Mountcollins wish to express their thanks to the organisers of the recent function which was held on their behalf in the Community Centre. A special word of thanks to the Development Association, the Community and the Fishing Club who made presentations on the night. The Naughton Family also express their gratitude to all the people who were present at the function for their donations and gifts and thank you to all the people who supported their business in Mountcoal over the years. CHARITY MATCH: The Special Olympics fund will benefit from the proceeds of a Charity football game which is being organised for Easter Sunday in Mountcollins. The game will feature a ladies and mens team and any person willing to take part should give their name to Bernadette Brosnan. All support for this worthy cause would be very much appreciated. GAA: Mountcollins U21 footballers qualified for the West Limerick championship final on last Saturday evening with a 1-10 to 1-7 victory over Castlemahon in ideal conditions at Abbeyfeale. At the end of the opening half, Castlemahon led by two points, 1-5 to 1-3, with the local side far from happy with their first half performance. The team talk at the break had the desired effect and Mountcollins gave a much improved display in the second half. The back line making was much tighter, limiting the opposition to just two points. At the other end despite missing numerous scoring opportunities Mountcollins scored some great points to finish worthy winners over the pre-match favourites. The scores came from Brian McCarthy (0-7), Donagh Walsh (1-0), Sean Lenihan, Keith Garvey and Sean Gleeson (0-1 each). Our opponents in the final will be Athea and this game is likely to be played next weekend. Saturday’s lineout was Liam Keogh, David O’Sullivan, Michael Quirke, Terry Brosnan, Michael Dillane, Denis Dillane, James McCarthy, Shane Gleeson, Brian McCarthy, Joe Lyons, Keith Garvey, Sean Lenihan, Timothy Walsh, Sean Gleeson, Donagh Walsh. Subs: Donal Gleeson, Michael Lenihan, Conor Brosnan, Sean O’Mahony, Larry Begley. CLUB NA NÓG: A busy week for club players who were in action in football games at U8, U12 and U16 level. Congratulations to the hurlers from Tournafulla on their historic win in the Féile na nGael final last weekend and continued success as they represent the division in the county semi-finals. U16 FOOTBALL: Mountcollins U16 footballers easily defeated Cappagh in the semi-final of the 12-a-side competition on last Thursday evening from the throw-in, the local side were always in control and despite many missed scoring chances finished convincing winners by 2-8 to 0-4. Mountcollins now meet Sean Finns, Rathkeale in the final on tonight, Wednesday at 7.30 in Newcastle West and all support for the team is welcome. The semi-final line out was Irene Dillane, Bernard McCarthy, Michael Brosnan, Jeremiah Moroney, Jamie Brosnan, Michael Curtin, Leonard Murphy, Catriona Davis, Leanne Garvey, Thomas Begley, DJ Gleeson, Christopher Brosnan. Subs: Kevin Barry, Eoin Moroney, Máire Lyons, Bryan O’Connell, Anthony Hartnett, Christopher Leahy. U12 FOOTBALL: Mountcollins U12 footballers came away with full points from the opening game of the 2003 football league programme on Saturday last. This fixture was played in Foynes with the visitors producing a fine performance when defeating St Senans by 2-8 to 1-2. The Mountcollins line-out was Sean Delee, Mary Finnegan, Thomas McCarthy, Patrick Finnegan, Marie Lenihan, Andrew Murphy, Bridget Cahill, Thomas Collins, James Brouder, Diarmuid Gleeson, Patrick Delee, Steven Cahill, Jamie Mahony, Patrick Naughton, Matthew Brouder. Subs: Denis Collins, Donal O’Connor, Marina O’Mahony, Helen Delee, David Finnegan. In Round 2 we are away to Knockaderry on Saturday week. U8 FOOTBALL: Abbeyfeale Sports Complex was the venue on Saturday afternoon for the opening rounds of the U8 indoor football competition. Mountcollins progressed to the quarterfinal stages with good wins over Kilcornan and Knockaderry. The same venue will host the concluding games on Saturday next and we wish our players the best of luck. The panel on Saturday was Keith Murphy, Jeremiah Naughton, Darragh Murphy, Steven Cahill, Jamie Lenihan, Timothy Finnegan, Liam Óg Whelan, Pat Finnegan. PUBLIC MEETING: The Hen Harrier continues to be the subject of much discussion in the locality. A public meeting which should be of interest to all landowners in the Mountcollins area will be held in the Devon Inn on this Thursday night at 8.30 to discuss the proposals by Dúchas to designate parts of the Parish a special conservation area and all are welcome. Moyvane MOYVANE/Knockanure senior citizens half day retreat for senior citizens at Ardfert on Tuesday next, April 15. Cost everything included, senior ?15, others ?28. Book with Maureen Nolan 49365, Noelle O’Callaghan 49350. Chiropodist will attend the Marian Hall on Saturday next, April 12 from 1.30pm to 5.30pm. For appointment contact Eileen Quinn 49472. Youth club is now closed. Trip to club day is cancelled. GAA: U16 Moyvane had a good win over Duagh in the N Kerry league. They play their matches on Wednesday nights so players should be checking their games. TRAINING: Continues for our u12 and u10 teams on Sunday morning at 12 noon. SENIORS: Moyvane had a great victory over Desmonds in the N Kerry league on Saturday night on a score of 2-11 to 2-8. This win puts us in the semi final. This game was played in good football spirit and was in doubt up to the end. Desmonds led at the interval by 2 pts, but Moyvane hit a purple patch at the start of the 2nd half, and added 1-4 to lead by 1-10 to 0-7. At the end of normal time the sides were level but in the last attack, Cathal O’Connor got through for the match winning goal for Moyvane in injury time. This was a great team effort and if we can keep this up we can have a very good year. DJ Mulvihill received an injury and we wish D J A speedy recovery to the playing field. Next Saturday, we are plying Ballyduff in the Co league. Players and supporters are asked to check local posters for clarification of fixture. MINORS: Moyvane are playing St Pats in the Co league on Friday night at 7pm. Venue will be clarified on local posters. Players assemble at Brosnans corner at 6.30 sharp. JUNIORS: Moyvane start their N Kerry league campaign on Thursday next against Emmets B in Clounmacon at 7pm. Players are asked to be in the dressing room at 6.45 sharp. NORTH KERRY Together Jobs Club are offering a Jobs Seeking Course which will begin at the Moyvane Community on Monday May 6. Information night will be held at the Community Centre on Wednesday April 16 at 11am details contact 068 24981 or 23429. FAS and NDP fund the course. COMMUNITY GAMES: Congrats and well done to the girls and boys from Knockanure who took part and received certificates in the culture corner in the Co final of community games in the Marian Hall on Sunday last. They were Denise Collins, Liam Flavin, Kieran Flavin, Tady Finucane, T Finucane, N Molyneaux. Their culture item was dancing at Flahertys, written by Dan Keane. Congrarts and thanks also to their parents. The next event in community games is cross country races in Beaufort on Sunday, April 13. Newcastle West The first of a six-week course in Contemporary Dance began last week at Newcastle West School of Music. Roberta Raymond-Nolan introduced this expressive form of the art of dance. Roberta has a background of dance performance and teaching in Europe, Broadway and the Bolshoi. This dancing is not like Irish dancing or ballet and only a t-shirt and tracksuit bottoms and runners are needed, no expensive shoes or costumes are required. The classes take place at Desmond College on Saturday mornings and are open to male and female. The class for 4 to 7 years is full but there are vacancies in the 8 to 12 years class and the 13 to adult (no upper age limit) class. For further information please phone 086 2517086. MUSIC: The School of Music Summer Camp of the Arts will be held again this year, following the great success of last year's camps. Two camps will be held this year. The camp for 5 to 11 years will be held from Monday, July 14 to Friday, July 18. The Senior Camp for 12 to 16 years will be held from Monday, July 21 to Friday, July 25. Full details will be available later. The dates have been released now to facilitate people who wish to book holidays. STRAUSS BALL: The Desmond Complex Strauss Ball, planned for Easter Sunday night, has been postponed. The final draw in the Confined Members Draw will take place at the Brothers of Charity Workshop, Lacey's cross, on Monday, April 14 at 8 p.m. The first prize is a Toyota Landcruiser. A new draw will commence shortly and promoters will be urging those already in the draw to remain with them. New members can join by contacting the Complex Office, Bishop Street, Newcastle West, phone 069 62757 or any promoter. YOUTH CLUB: The Youth Club has resumed on Friday nights at the Parish Hall at 8pm. If any parent has an hour to spare they would be very welcome to come and help out. If enough people are willing to help a rota can be drawn up so that people can take turns in coming and make life easier for everyone. 50th BIRTHDAYS: Patsy Murphy, Ballyconway and Mike MacDomhnaill, Gortboy have celebrated their 50th birthdays recently. FLAG DAY: Calvary Cemetery committee will hold an important meeting this Friday, April 1 in the Parish Office at 8pm. A full attendance is requested. Please note that the annual Flag Day in aid of the refurbishment of the cemetery will be held in Newcastle West on Easter Saturday, April 19. Your support would be appreciated. YOUNG PRIESTS SOCIETY: The Newcastle West Branch of the St Joseph's Young Priests Society is now holding monthly meetings on the second Thursday each month at the Parish Centre at 8pm. Promoters are currently calling door to door on their members for the annual subscription. COFFEE EVENING: Transition Year students at Scoil Mhuire agus Ide held a coffee evening recently to show their appreciation for the sponsorship by West Limerick Resources of their study seminar. Joan Murphy and Gearoid Prendegast attended from West Limerick Resources and presented a cheque to Ms. Mairead Hogan, Transition Year co-ordinator. The seminar has been of great benefit to the students. The refreshments for the evening were prepared by the students with their Home Economics teacher Ms Nessa O'Callaghan. SCOIL MHUIRE IDE will hold a Sports Camp on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday April 14, 15 and 16 for 5 to 14 year olds. AGM: The following officers were elected at the Annual General Meeting of Parents and Friends of People with a Disability: President - Fr Keating; Chairperson - Kathleen Sugrue; Vice-Chairperson - Elma Hanley; Secretary - Kathleen Sheehy; Assistant Secretary - Fanny Hanley; Joint Treasurers Bernie Guiry and Mary McAuliffe; Joint PRO's Kathleen Nugent and Marie Anderson; Liaison Officer - Mike Dwane. Monthly meetings are held on the first Monday of every month at the Workshop, Lacey's Cross. New members are most welcome. PTAA: The Newcastle West Branch of the Pioneer Total Abstinence Association will hold a social in the Ballintemple Inn on Friday, April 11 from 9 p.m. to 12.30 a.m. Music is by Liam O'Sullivan. The proceeds of this function will be donated to the Special Olympics. Pioneers and their friends are welcome. Refreshments will be served and admission is ?6. SPORTS GRANTS: Local organizations in County Limerick can benefit from the 2003 Sports Capital Grants Programme announced recently by the Department of Arts, Sport and Tourism. Any clubs or community groups who plan to upgrade facilities, improve or acquire new facilities should apply for this funding. A Lo-Call number is available to the Department 1890 383000, ext. 3914. The closing date for receipt of completed applications is 5 pm on April 25th. DEATH: The death has taken place at Milford Hospice of Ann Phelan. Along with her sister Maureen, Ann ran Phelan's Hardware shop at Bishop Street, where the Roxy now stands. This shop served the people of Newcastle West and District for over 100 years. Set up in 1886 by William Phelan it was taken over by Jim Phelan, Ann's father, in 1932 and continued after Jim's death in 1973 by his daughters and finally closed in 1990. The funeral mass was held at the Church of the Immaculate Conception, Newcastle West, celebrated by Mgr. Boyle PP, assisted by Fr. Richard Keane, CC, Fr. Dan Lane, PP Ardagh and Fr. Madigan, former curate in Newcastle West. The Pioneer Total Abstinence Assoc. and members of the Red Cross provided a guard of honour. Ann was laid to rest in Churchtown Cemetery. Former staff at Phelan's, local business people and members of the community attended the ceremonies. FIRST AID: The West Limerick First Aid Unit of the Irish Red Cross Society will present Basic First Aid Certificates to a large group of young teenagers at the Parish Hall, Newcastle West, on Tuesday 8th April at 7.30pm. Many of the young people have become members of the Unit and attend ambulance duties with senior crews. Some members are preparing for Cadet competitions in May. Rathea/ Irremore Lixnaw Community Games: The County finals of the cross-country events will take place in Beaufort on this Sunday, April 13 at 2p.m. Best of luck to our athletes. MINOR LGE: St Senans v Lispole on Friday, April 11, in Lispole at 7pm. All players should be at the Clubhouse, Mountcoal for 5.30pm, and no later. CO LGE: St Senans v Beaufort on Saturday, April 12, in Mountcoal at 7.15pm. JUNIOR NKL: St Senans v Ballylongford on Tuesday, April 15, in Mountcoal, 7.30pm. U16: St Senans v Beale on Wednesday, April 9, in Ballybunion at 7pm. MEETING: A Club development meeting will take place on Thursday, April 10, in Mountcoal at 8.30pm. It is very important that all the different organisations within the club attend the meeting and also players. SELF DEFENCE CLASSES: Will commence on Wednesday, April 16. Enrolment from 7-9pm in the Clubhouse, Mountcoal. For more information please phone Dave Moriarty on 087 6538092. LOTTO: The Blue and Gold Lotto was won on Sunday night, March 30. The winner was John Lyons, Irremore. The numbers drawn were 4, 12, 19, 21. Lucky dip winners were ?30 each to Brendan Buckley, Tralee and Brendan Harmon, Kilflynn. ™20 each to Carmel Hobbert, Tralee and Jer Mulvihill, Mountcoal. Bottle of whiskey to Pat Hannafin, Cappa, Kilflynn. The jackpot this Sunday night is ?1000. FIXTURES: Co League U14, Round 5 - St Senans play Desmonds at Mountcoal on Monday evening next, April 14, at 7.30pm. NKL U16 Round 2 - St Senan’s play Beale at Ballybunion this Wednesday evening, April 9, at 7pm. Thank you to all who contributed to the Church Gate Collection, and the players and the parents who helped with the bag packing last weekend in Dunnes Stores and to the shoppers who contributed. Training continues for the U12, U14 and U16 each week. A DAY IN THE BOG: Gardening classes, all the knowledge you will need to get your garden looking good for the Summer. The course runs four Tuesday nights of April, enrolment and starting date, Tuesday, April 8, 8.30. Cost ?25. To book, phone 066-7132555. Riocht AC JOHN LENIHAN and Niamh O’Sullivan made it a double for Riocht at the County Road Championships in Currans on Sunday last. Lenihan followed up his win in the Munster Masters the previous Sunday with a fine display of front running to win the 5km race in a time of 15.02. Niamh was equally impressive when taking the womens title in 17.11. Sile Kerely was first home in the Masters women with Fiona Mullins 2nd novice. Ger Keane was second in the novice mens section with Peter Murphy third. Humphrey Murphy novice men and Denis Clifford junior were just out of the medals. TRAINING: Juvenile training for Riocht members continues on Monday nights at 8pm, Wednesday evenings at 7pm, and Friday evenings at 6.45. Special training for throwers will commence on Friday evening, April 18 at 6pm, under the watchful eye of leading throwers Coach Gerry Horgan. Middle distance training for teenagers will continue on Thursday evenings at 7.30pm. AWARDS NITE: Well done to Riocht athletes who will receive awards at the Kerry Awards function on this Friday night. The Club award winners are Claire Hartnett and Cian O’Connor. County award winners include Gerry Lyons, John Lenihan, Niamh O’Sullivan and Maureen Harrington. LOTTO: There was no winner of the jackpot on Friday night last. The numbers drawn were 5, 6, 12, 20. Next months jackpot will be ?2700. Thanks to everyone who supported the lotto. Scartaglin SINGERS, musicians, dancers, story tellers etc are presently being sought for a proposed variety show to be held in the Cultural and Heritage Centre n Scartaglin. The idea is that the proceeds of this show would go towards supporting an athlete for the Special Olympics, which are being held in Ireland this Summer. Its a great idea so if you can help out in any way please contact Maureen on 066-7147014 or Carmel on 066-7147135. Its a very worthy cause and well worth supporting. The Irish Rambling House show is coming to the Sliabh Luachra Cultural and Heritage Centre, Scartaglin on Thursday night, April 10. This production has toured in Ireland and extensively in England and the USA. The rambling house touring group have produced at least five excellent videos, so be sure and come along to the Centre. To make sure of your seat, please book early by telephoning 066-7147231 as the show is for one night only. Tickets cost ?10 each. EK LEAGUE: Scart senior team and Kenmare finished all square 0-13 to 2-7 after an entertaining game of football in the E Kerry senior league Div 2 at Pat Casey Memorial Park on Saturday evening last. Scart had the better of the exchanges in the opening half, and led at the interval by 0-8 to 1-1, Kenmare getting their goal from a penalty just before the short whistle, with Scarts scorers being Alan Dineen 2, J O’Donoghue 4, T Coakley and T Boyle. J O’Donoghue stretched the home sides lead, with an early pt in the 2nd half and shortly afterwards, Kenmare struck with a crucial goal to leave just two pts between the teams. Two minutes later, Daniel Murphy had a Scart pt. A pt from the visitors and one for Scartaglin from John Culloty left three pts dividing the sides after 40 minutes of play. Kenmare enjoyed a good spell for the succeeding five minutes or so in which they scored three pts without reply from Scart. At the end of the 3rd quarter, it was all square 0-11 to 2-5. Goalkeeper Martin Hewitt pout Scart back in front when scoring a very good pt from a 45 yds free in the 50th minute. Soon afterwards John Culloty added another pt for the local team. Kenmare however were not done with, and inside the last three minutes, they rallied again scoring 2 pts to level matters just before the final whistle. Scart sides had chances of snatching victory, but in the final analysis a draw was a fair result in the end. Scart M Hewitt 0-1, B Reidy, D O’Connor, B Cronin, A Cronin, P Murphy, S Riordan, T Coakley 0-1, S Canty, B Rahilly, T Boyle 0-1, J O’Donoghue 0-5, J Culloty 0-2, C Kerin,A Dineen 0-2. Subs D Murphy 0-1 for A Cronin, T O’Connor for B Reidy, J O’Connor for C Kerin, S Reidy for T Boyle, F O’Connor, A Horan, M Herlihy, T O’Connor. U16S: Cordal made full use of home advantage, when defeating Scartaglin 2-9 to 1-6 in the first round of the Castleisland Co Op Mart sponsored district league, played at Cordal last week. Cordal led at the break by 2 pts, 1-5 to 1-3. In the 2nd half, Cordal continued their domination and won by six pts in the end. Scart P O’Sullivan, L McSweeney,N Casey, P J Culloty, J O’Driscoll, Capt, G Daly, J j Murphy 0-2, S O’Connell 0-2, M Horan 0-1, T Fortune 1-1, T Culloty, D Kerins, T O’Connell. Subs M Fitzgerald for D Kerins, J Collins for P J Culloty, J Cullinane, E Horan. Referee Tony Brosnan (Currow). MINORS: Scartaglin minors got their Div 2 County League campaign off to the best start when defeating Na Gael 0-12 to 0-8 at Caherslee on Friday evening. Na Gael got off to a flying start, kicking over 3 opts n the opening quarter. John Culloty got Scarts first pt in the 17th minute. Two further pts from the same player and three for the Tralee boys left the half time score Na Gael 0-6, Scart 0-3. A much improved performance in the 2nd half by Scart saw the defence play better and with Brendan Reidy, J Thompson and P Reidy driving forward and D Murphy and J Culloty in good scoring form, they gradually got back into the reckoning. Scart went into the lead with about ten minutes remaining. Na Gael reduced the lead in the closing stages but further pts from John Culloty and Shane O’Connell ensured that Scartaglin collected the pts at stake and this was a well merited victory. Scartaglin; T Kerins, P Adair, B Reidy, E O’Connell, A Horan, P Reidy 0-1, J Thompson, G Dineen, D Murphy 0-4, B Lynch, J Fitz, JJ Murphy, J Culloty 0-6, M Kerins, F Galvin. Subs S O’Connell 0-1, E McSweeney, T Fortune, T O’Connor, J O’Connell. U14 CO LEAGUE: Scart played St Marys in the Co league on Monday evening at Scart. The first half was a very even contest and at the break, only the minimum divided the sides the score then St Marys 0-7, Scart 1-3. The latters goal coming from David Kerins. St Marys proved the stronger in the 2nd half, going on to score 2-3 in that period of play with Scart adding 5 pts to their first half total. Scart P O’Sullivan, G O’Connor, S Reidy, E Horan, N Casey, J Cullinane, J Collins, M Horan, Capt 0-4, s Cremin, S McCarthy 0-1, T Reidy 0-2, J Anne O’Connell, D Kerins 1-1. Subs D Cremin for D Kerins, T Cullinane for S McCarthy, D Kerins, C McSweeney. FIXTURES: Scart seniors are scheduled to play Derrynane this weekend in Round 3 of the Credit Union Co league Div 5 South. This game will be in Derrynane. Scart minors are set to play Listowel Emmets in Scartagln on this Friday evening, April 11 at 7pm in Round 2 of the Co League. GAA MEETING: Scart GAA club monthly meeting for April will take place on this Wednesday, April 9 at 8pm in the clubhouse. Everyone interested is asked to attend. JUVENILE FIXTURES: In the first round of the u12 Co league 13 A side, Div H, Scart are away to Fossa on Sunday next, April 13 at 7pm. Scartaglin u16s are at home to Currow on Thursday evening next, April 10 in the Castleisland District league. This game is scheduled to start at 6.45pm. LADIES MEETING: Scartaglin ladies football club will hold an important meeting in the clubhouse on Thursday night, April 10 at 9pm. All involved in the club are asked to attend. MEMORIAL WALK: Sunday, April 27 will see the 4th annual Amanda O’Connor Memorial 10km walk taking place in Brosna. This walks was staged for the first time in 1999, the year Amanda died from cerebral palsy. The proceeds will go towards helping other cerebral palsy sufferers, and its open to all age groups to take part. Last years walk raised almost ?7,000 and a big turn out is expected again this year. Patricia Kerins of Knockrour is participating in this walk, and she will gratefully accept any sponsorship that people in the general Scartaglin area may wish to give. OUTREACH: A Citiznes information centre will be held in the Cultural and Heritage Centre, on Thursday, May 1 from 11am to 1pm, and will continue on the first Thursday of each month thereafter at the above mentioned time. Topics covered will be farming issues/farm assist, social welfare entitlements, housing matters, consumer rights, education, personal taxation, local authority services etc etc. AFTERNOON OF PRAYER: In Our Lady of Lourdes Church, on Sunday, April 20, Easter Sunday with Joe Dalton. Proceedings will start with the recitation of the rosary at 2.45pm, followed by songs of praise and worship. Penitential service and Eucharistic blessing. CANCER RESEARCH: Scart Youth Club wish to thank all those who supported their recent fund raising event, in aid of cancer research. The amount raised came to ?1,134.30. Well done. EASTER MASS: There will be mass on Easter Sunday morning on Cnoc An Oir Hill, Listowel at 6am. The Easter fire will be lit at 5.45am, and its a wonderful sight to behold. Anyone who would like to attend this mass should contact Mary Murphy, Adriville at 066-7147485. Bus will leave Riordans Garage at 4.30am on Easter Sunday morning. Early booking is essential for any one interested. PILGRIMAGE: The Kerry Diocesan Pilgrimage to Lourdes will leave from Kerry Airport on September 2 and returns on Sept 7. The pilgrimage will be led by Bishop Bill Murphy and costs ?614 plus ?21 for insurance. For the sick or infirm staying in the medical centre the cost is ?535 incl insurance. For bookings and further info and details contact Torc Travel on 06432911. DEATH: The death occurred last week of Theresa Casey, nee Murphy, of Annaghmore, Headford. Sincere sympathy is extended to her husband, Eddie and his young family and to the Murphy family of Knockachur and the Casey family of Knockachur and the Casey family of Carker on their very sad loss. The late Theresa was buried in Killaha Cemetery. May she rest in peace. Templeglantine THE Lenten Stations Mass will take place on Friday night in the local church with confessions also available on the night. The Triduum of Prayer led by Redemptorist Fr Peter Ward began on Tuesday, continues on Wednesday and Thursday evening. Copies of the Bishop’s Pastoral letter are available in the church. MEETING: A meeting concerning Dúchas proposals to set aside special areas for the preservation of the Hen Harriers will take place at the Devon Inn Hotel on this Thursday evening. This rare bird which was scarcely ever spoken about in the locality is now a very important topic of conversation and was featured in the weekly “Ear to the Ground” programme on television last week. CHERNOBYL PROJECT: A very fine crowd assembled at Mallow Racecourse on Sunday last to wish all those on the aid convoy to Chernobyl well. The aid convoy carrying food, medicines and other essentials and including 20 ambulances was organised by the Adi Roche led Chernobyl Children’s Project. Mike Kiely of Meenoline is one of the ambulance drivers. CÚRSA GAEILGE: Comharcumann Íde Naofa will again this year run a two–week Irish summer course which will be based at the Vocational School, Mainistir na Féile. It begins at the end of June and brochures and application forms are available in the local Primary School. These courses are most enjoyable and as well as enabling students to improve the Irish in the classroom the language can be practised through games, céilí, concerts and various other activities. LOTTO WINNER: Congratulations to Séamus Mulcahy of Meenoline on winning the ?7,610 Jackpot in the ’Glantine FC Lottery last week. Comhgháirdeas leat a Shéamuis. MUNSTER FINALS: The Munster finals of the Scóraíocht na nÓg and Pléaracha na nÓg will take place at Halla Inse Bán on Sunday afternoon, April 27. The local Craobh will be participating in the Scóraíocht competition which is a 30 minute show of music, song and dance built around a central theme. CÚRSAÍ AN CHOMHALTAS: The weekly music classes will take place as usual on Monday night next. Fees for the term which have not already been collected will be taken up on the night. The final Bodhrán class of the present term will take place on Friday evening and dancing will continue as usual on Saturday morning. Some young singers will be attending the Irish singing workshops at Baile Mhúirne on Saturday next. If any others are interested in attending contact 069/84039. Members of the adult Céilí class had a most enjoyable night in Tuar na Fola last week at the end of term Céilí. LABHAIRT NA GAEILGE: Ghlac na daoine óga seo leannas páirt i gComórtas Labhairt na Gaeilge le linn Féile Inse Bhán: Micheál Ó hAirtnéada, Dara Ó Dochartaigh, Pádraig Ó Laighin, Caoimhín Ó Coileáin, Pádraig Ó Conchúir, Andrías O Súilleabháin, Micheál Ó Dochartaigh, Stiofán Ó Bruadair, Aoife Ní Scannlain, Bríd Ní Ríordáin, Pádraigín Ní Chuirc, Padraig Ó Briosláin, Karen Ní Choraí, Laura Ní Choileáin, Orlaith Breathnach, Aoibhe Ní Laocha, Eoin Ó Laighin, Cáit Ní Bhruadair, Lisa Ní Scannláin, Eimear Nic Gearailt, Cáit Ní Bhriosláin, Lisa Ní Cheallaigh, Shallen Ní Ríordain, Antóin de Faoite, Séaghan Ó Bruadair, Labhras Mac Curtáin, Liam Ó Flaibhín, Stiofán Mac Amhlaoibh, Síle Ní Chuirc, Siobhán Ní Dhonnbhartaigh, Louise Ní Scannláin, Sinéad Ní Ghráda, Séamus Ó Scannláin, Eibhlís de Staic, Marc Ó Súilleabháin. B’íad Máire Bean Uí Choileain agus Máire Bean Uí Airtnéada, na moltóirí a bhí ar na comórtaisí. Tá Coiste Ghlór na nGael fíor bhuíoch do ghach duine a ghlac páirt agus do ghac duine a chabhraig. COMMUNITY GAMES: The Templeglantine Community Games traditional music group performed very well in the under 14 talent event at Rathkeale on Saturday night and were placed third. VISIT OF GALWAY LADIES: Members of the junior hurling squad had a surprise in store for them when they turned out for training on Saturday evening last. The Galway ladies football team were using the pitch for a workout. They stopped off on their way to Tralee where they were playing Kerry on Sunday. Tralee Harriers Athletic Club (Incorporating both Clounalour and St. Johns Athletic Clubs) NATIONAL INDOOR CHAMPIONSHIPS The 2nd weekend of the National Indoor Championships took place last weekend in Nenagh. Tralee Harriers had a weekend of mixed fortunes and the following are the results. The boys under 15 finished in 3rd place in their relay - this team comprised of Ben McGilton, David Casey, Peter Wheeler and David Boyd. In the boys under 16 age group Patrick Phelan finished in 4th place in the 200mt. The boys under 17 relay team took the gold medal in a tightly contested race and this relay team was made up of Aonghus Carmody, Patrick Phelan, Alan Leen and Ger Tobin. This was a wonderfull achievement for the boys and adds to the gold medal they took at the Munsters in the same event. In the boys under 18 age group - Tony Barnett finished in 2nd place in the 200mt to add to the gold medal he took in the 60mt at the first weekend. The boys under 18 relay qualified for the final but injury to one of the athletes meant they did not make the medals . This was a disappointment for the team but I am sure they will return at the outdoors to challenge this event. In the girls events Elaine Drumm was once again the top performing Tralee Harriers female athlete with a bronze medal in the 200mt and a bronze medal in the high jump. Elaine also assisted the girls under 18 relay team to a bronze medal, the other members of this team being Laura Crowe, Ciara Sheehy and Amanda O'Connell. In the same age group Eimer Moriarty took the bronze medal in the walk and Aoife Cleary finished in 5th place in the High Jump. In the girls under 16 age group Laura Crowe finished in 2nd place in the 800mt. The girls under 15 relay despite being considered medal prospects failed to make the final but here again I am sure they will return to form at the outdoor events. The overall total for the club was 1 relay gold, 2 individual silver, 3 individual bronze and 2 relay bronze. Over the two weekends the club won a total of 4 gold, 2 silver and 8 bronze individual medals and a total of 1gold and 2 bronze relay medals. Well done to all. Training Training takes place outdoors at the sports grounds in the Tralee Sports complex at 7pm on both Tuesday and Thursday. Senior and Masters Training takes place each Monday night from 8 -9 at the CYMS hall in Denny Street. All are welcome. Registrations This years registrations are now closing and anyone who has not sent in their birth certs and/or fees please do so as soon as possible. COUNTY "B" INDOOR CHAMPIONSHIPS. These results are a little late but better late than never. Our younger athletes contested these events which were held in the Green school hall two weeks ago. Individual medal winners were Rachel Patton, Deirdre Kearney, Emma Patton, Eimear Collins, Rosie Young, Niamh Guerin, Julie Carmody, Avril Vesey, Paul Mc Mahon, Tom Mc Loughlin, Eoghan Sheehy, Philippe Barnett, Jason O'Leary and Chris Tobin. Relay medals were also won by the girls under 10 - Rachel Patton, Lorraine Truslove, Katie Casey and Deirdre Kearney. The girls under 11 finished in 2nd place and this team was made up of Eimear Collins, Deirdre Kearney, Laura Hoffman and Emma Patton. The girls under 12 relay comprised of Rosie Young, Niamh Guerin, Emma Patton and Julie Carmody also finished in 2nd place and the girls under 13 were joint first. This team was Avril Vesey, Ciara Hill, Rosie Young and Niamh Guerin. In the boys we took medals in the under 9, under 10, under 11 and under 12 age groups. The boys under 9 were 2nd and here the team was Darragh Sheehy, Darragh Collins, Michael O'Leary and Donal Mullins. The under 10 team won the gold and this team was made up of Tom Mc Loughlin, Michael Mullins, Paul Mc Mahon and Darragh Sheehy. Thee under 11 team of Eoghan Sheehy, Phillippe Barnett, Tom Mc Loughlan and Jason O'Leary finished in 2nd place and the boys under 12 took the gold medal. The winning team was Bill Mullins, Eoghan Sheehy, Jason O'Leary and Chris Tobin. The club finished in 2rd place overall. Well done to all our athletes. These young athletes are now preparing for the outdoor season and we wish them every success for the 2003 season. DEADLINE FOR NOTES Any person requiring information to be added to the Tralee Harriers notes each week must forward to me (Geraldine Cooper) the details before 11 o clock on the Monday Morning. In relation to the results I would appreciate if the attending coaches at various events could let me know the results before this time also. My contact number is 087 7732807. Once the outdoor season commences with a very full timetable of competitions it is vital that the notes are kept up to date and that we keep our athletes, parents and club members informed of the upcoming events and results. Dates for the Diary: County Championships outdoor - 3rd and 4th and 11th of May in Castleisland. Estuary open sports - 18th May G'Guila open sports - 1st June County Primary Schools sports - Casteisland on the 7th of June. Munster Outdoor Championships ages under 9 -under 13 will be held on 14th,15th of June in Castleisland. Listowel open sports - 21st June. Munster outdoor Championships ages under 13 - 18 will be held on the 28th ,19th of June in C'Island. 
