sport football
{  
    December 29 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/sport/other-sports/sports-review-2000-26925550.html }
With only days of the first year of the third millennium remaining, The Argus decided to have a quick glance back at the sporting year and its many highpoints. The sporting occasion of the year was undoubtedly the Sydney Olympics held in September. For Ireland the Games finally brought Sonia O’Sullivan her just desserts with a silver medal in the 5,000 metres. Just pipped for Gold, Sonia had left her best on the track and wasn’t able to compete with the blistering pace set by Paula Radcliffe in the 10,000 metres final. Steve Redgrave’s fifth gold medal and Cathy Freeman’s 400 metres gold were some of the other highpoints. In soccer, France confirmed their superiorty in adding the European Championship to the World Cup won two years previously. Tiger Woods domination of golf continued, while Ferrari clinched their first Formula One World Championship drivers title in many years. In horse racing, Johnny Murtagh will look back favourably on 2000, the highlight of which was his association with Sinndar, as horse and jockey combined won the Irish Derby, English Derby and the Arc. Here we’ve asked some local sporting personalities for their own favourite moments of the year, as well as asking them to recount their personal highs and lows of the year. John McCabe - Dundalk RFC scrum half Personal highlight of the Year - As you know we are fighting relegation, so the league win against Boyne a couple of weeks ago was the highlight and hopefully we can go on and beat Coolmine and Portlaoise and other results go our way. From a schools point of view, De La Salle reaching the Leinster Junior Cup semi final is tremendous. Most disappointing moment of the year - It was great reaching the Pronvincial Towns Cup final but losing was disappointing. We were in contention for the league until we lost to Naas and then had a strong run in the cup, but Navan were very strong on the day and since then we have lost eight players, while Navan are up there chasing for the league. Sporting Memory of the Year - The Sydney Olympics was a tremendous occasion and brought back great memories for me of my five years living there. I would have loved to have been there. There was none of the hassle of Atlanta and they cleaned the sport up a bit with better drug testing. Irish/International Sports Star of 2000 - Sonia O’Sullivan for coming through following Atlanta. We have come on as a nation in terms of confidence, and if she was four years younger I think she would have come home with the gold instead of silver. We are sometimes quick to knock people but she proved herself. To win one Olympic gold medal means you are class but to repeat if five times, shows the extreme dedication of Steve Redgrave, even if he is a pom. Yvonne Cassidy - International Golfer Personal highpoint of the year - Getting back into the Irish team for the Home Internationals at Royal St Davids in Wales in September after a gap of five years would have to be the highpoint of the year, although I had a very consistent year, finishing 3rd in the ILG Order of Merit, reaching the semi finals of the Irish Match Play Championship at Baltray and finishing 3rd place in the Irish Stroke Play at Birr in July, although getting back on the Irish team would have to top the lot. Most disappointing moment of the Year - I was not happy with my performance in the British Matchplay at Walton Heath near London in June, but to be straight it would be nitpicking to call it a disappointing moment in what was otherwise a very good year. Sporting Memory of the Year - Without doubt watching Michael Schumacher winning the Formula One World Championship, he’s my hero, I think he’s just a brilliant competitor and I’d love to marry him. Irish/International Sports Star of 2000 - Michael Schumacher for reasons just mentioned, as regards Ireland Darren Clarke for his victory in the World Matchplay Championship over Tiger Woods, but I would have to give it to Sonia O’Sullivan for her silver medal in the Olympics, I love hurling and Kilkenny winning the All Ireland would be another contender. Des Denning - Chairman Dundalk FC Personal highlight of the year - Following all the efforts to get the co-op up and running, taking over the running of Dundalk FC in March was the highpoint of the year. It was a very proud night for me to be appointed Chairman. Most disappointing moment of the year - Not winning promotion at the end of last season was a big disappointment. Dundalk just missed on a promotion play off and had a high court case with Kilkenny and the League. Sporting Memory of the year - From a personal point of view, it was attending the Champions League final in Paris which Real Madrid won beating Valencia. This is my first taste of football at this level, other than an Irish match, the football was an exhibition and the stadium and atmosphere terrific. It was a fantastic experience. Irish/International Sports Star of 2000 - Sonia O’Sullivan is my Irish Sports Star of the year. Internationally I would give it to the French team which won the European Championship adding it to the World Cup they won in 1998, how they didn’t win FIFA Team of the Year instead of Holland, I don’t know. Paddy Clarke - Louth Manager Personal highlight of the Year - Winning Division 2 of the National League would have to be the highlight of the year. On another personal level working with the Irish team was a tremendous honour, although there was a sting in the tail in that we didn’t do as well as we wanted. Most disappointing moment of the Year - The result against Kildare was disappointing in that we were there right at the end, but Kildare’s experience told. More disappointing however was the league defeat to Roscommon and the possible implications at the end of the league campaign. Sporting Memory of the Year - Because of my involvement with Louth and then with Ireland, I really only had two weeks off during the year, so everything else has faded into the backround, and I probably didn’t enjoy the Olympics as much as the ordinary Joe Soap. Walking into St Patrick’s College with Peter Canavan and Seamus Moynihan would be a great memory however. Irish/International Sports Star of the Year - Sonia O’Sullivan would have to be the Irish Sports Star of the Year, the whole country stopped for her exceptional achievement. Internationally, I would have to give it to Cathy Freeman, for what she stood for, for withstanding the incredible pressure that was on her to win. I know from my own experience that I absolutely hate matches people expect you to win. David Reilly - Stabannon footballer & Argus Weekender columnist Personal highpoint of the year - As regards Stabannon it would have to be beating Clan na Gael in the Senior Championship. For Louth GAA, winning the National League Division 2 was tremendous, to finally get the breakthrough. Most disappointing moment of the year - Losing the Senior Championship final was disappointing, performance wise we played well enough, but losing any final is disappointing and missing out on the chance of back to back titles. Sporting Memory of the Year - Without doubt Sonia O’Sullivan’s silver medal in the 5,000m final in the Olympics in Sydney. Irish/International Sports Star of 2000 - Most people would go for Sonia O’Sullivan, but personally I have great time for Roy Keane, both for his leadership and his performances on the pitch particularly early in the year, don’t forget he won the Footballers Footballer of the Year Award and the Football Writers Footballer of the Year. Internationally, I would have to say Steve Redgrave, who won a fifth Olympic Gold medal in Sydney, particularly for his achievement at his age, which is something you associcate with more at my age. 
