sport football
{  
    April 21 2015 04:09 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/sport/bear-hug-31160651.html }
EIRE OG GREYSTONES Glamour is a key factor in attracting young people to any sport and in seducing parents to encourage their offspring to participate in any particular one - the intrinsic value of the sport scarcely enters the equation.  This is an element which while not created directly by the media is without doubt greatly inflated by it.  In this matter the GAA games of hurling and football unfortunately carry little punch among the movers and shakers of the media - compare the treatment given to Peil na mBan to ladies rugby.  So the GAA is forced for the most part to fall back on its own resources to get the message of the excellence of its games across.  One of its flagships in the promotion of its sports are the excellently designed Go-Games. These have as their function the introduction of boys and girls to team play while keeping the competitive content to a minimum and also that of ensuring every player in a squad gets significant game-time regardless of his/her ability.  Hans Christian Andersen's tale of The Ugly Duckling comes to mind, 'tis many an awkward beginner who turns out to be a great asset (swan) to a club in later years.  The 2015 Go-Games season for Under-8s and Under-10s in both hurling and football has already got underway in these parts with a football blitz having been hosted by Áth na Fuinseoige on Friday last while Éire Óg welcomed Bray Emmets and Avondale to one in hurling on the previous Friday. Éire Óg participated in both age groups at each venue. The above awakens one to the logistical intricacies involved in the running of the many GAA clubs catering for both hurling and football. These often have an overlap of players and this can, on occasion, give rise to delicate balancing acts. Does any other sporting body have a like duty?  Having hurling and football both under the umbrella of the GAA would appear to the ordinary punter to have disadvantages with respect to gaining government funding. In the recent allocation of monies by The Sports Council the IRFU, the FAI and an CLCG each received approximately the same amount even though, personnel wise and in community sporting input, the two GAA sports would individually hold their own with the other two. It is questionable if this duality is taken into consideration by An Rialtas when distributing its largesse among the sporting bodies.  Hurling - Éire Óg hosted the first Go Games blitz of the year on April 10th. It was an exciting evening for all our little hurlers especially those that have stepped up from Under-6. Avondale and Bray Emmets were our guests, whilst Barndarrig elected not to travel. The lead coaches Mark Barry (Under-10) and Ronan Mellet (Under-8) together with those who assisted were delighted with the performances. Over 70 young Eire Óg players participated on the night. Éire Óg had an embarrassment of numbers and had to call on neighbours Kilcoole to include one of our teams in their blitz which was being run simultaneously.  The team that travelled included three sets of brothers, Sean and Conor Lehane, Diarmuid and Colm Carr, Cillian and Oisin Noonan and Cillian Goff. The big brothers did a great job looking after their younger siblings who were taking part for the first time in a blitz.  Mark Barry reports that there were great performances at Under-10 from Daniel McGlynn, Alec Bartac, Conor Ryan, Darragh McGowan, Darragh Lee and Cathal Kirby.  He thanks sincerely all the parents who helped out with the refreshments and to those who supplied the goodies. Football - On April 17 the footballers travelled to Ashford for their first blitz of the year. It was a blitz that was in danger of being cancelled as it began to rain as the games were about to start.  However with it being the first night and with a full attendance of teams it was decided to go ahead. The lead coaches were Kevin Healy (Under-10) and Gary Lehane (Under-8). We played games against Ashford and Bray Emmets. Despite the unfavourable conditions the children played great football and even though wet and shivering they had enjoyed their three games. Our Senior hurlers played a challenge match against St. Pat's of Wicklow on Wednesday evening. Conditions were ideal for hurling and the players treated us to a very enjoyable sporting game. The excellent refereeing of John Keenan made a huge contribution to the game as a spectacle. The involvement of minors Thomas Ryder and Mikey Ryan, for whom it was his 1st outing at adult level, is worthy of mention. Best wishes to Tom Enright who sustained a hand injury in the second half. ENNISKERRY Lotto - Winning numbers on April 13 were 3, 4, 12, and 16 .Bonus 38. No jackpot winner. Match three numbers receive €42 each. Jackpot on April 20 stands at €7,300. Thanks to all who sell and purchase lotto tickets for continued support. Adult Football - Ladies: The ladies were out in the Cup on Saturday night against neighbours An Tochar in St. Mary's.  Being the local derby and the long running history between the clubs a larger crowd than usual turned up to watch the game.  In glorious sunshine the game started with a bang and Sophie Nolan knock over a point right from throw in.  Heather Blackburn had her shooting boots on at center-forward to notch up another point before the visitors popped over one themselves.  Ailish Kelly as ever was on the end of a great team move to finish to the back of the next.  Not to be denied An Tochar came back strong and score a goal and two points to take the lead before Orla Kearns levelled the game up.  Both teams need to catch their breath after that open salvo and it was Enniskerry who pushed on first with points starting to fly in over the back. The excellent Roundwood goalkeeper was keeping her team in the game with a string of fine saves and smart kick out choices but the tide had turned and a gap was starting to open.  Points from Blackburn, Hipwell, Kelly, both Kearns sisters and Ash Driver over 15 minutes was a big statement.  A titanic midfield battle was being contested which Enniskerry started to bossed with the fantastic movement of the younger Kearns sister Shauna and Tara Costello for the home team.  Not just happy with winning ball in the middle Shauna was popping over scores while Tara moved the ball from full back line to full forward line all evening. The half time score was 2-12 to 1-4. Changes were made by the both team at half time but normal service resumed with scores again coming from the Enniskerry forwards to push the game beyond the visitors.  The defending for Enniskerry was as good as the attacking play and many an attack was snuffed out before the goal was threatened. A late rally by the visitors showed they were not rolling over and in a quick then minute flurry they tacked on 3-3 to finished the game on a score line of 6-19 to 4-7. The ladies are out on Saturday night in the Paddy Walsh Cup at 5pm in the Glen Cullen. Men - The men made sure the pitch was worked hard over the weekend as they lined out on Sunday morning at 11.30am to face the men of Kilbride in a Division 3 league game.  In the bright morning sunshine is was the visitors that made a great start pointing early from the corner0-forward position. The team exchange points till a magical move through the middle that moved left then right across the visitors 14-yard line to find Brendan Barton free to goal low to the keepers right. 1-2 to two points was the score.  But two defensive errors cost the home team and the men from the west capitalized to score two goals and put themselves back in the driving seat.  Not to be out done on their home pitch, Enniskerry fought back well and points form Garvin Barton and Anto O'Neil sent the teams in at half-time separated by two at 1-04 to 2-03.  The second half opened with a spell of Enniskerry pressure but it was the visitors that scored first and the gap opened to three.  Not to be flustered, the management made the changes require and slow the home team ground a dogged Kilbride team down and managed to push ahead with 10 minutes remaining.  A pointed free from O Neil and a diving point form Craig Williams pushed the gap to three.  Not to be outdone, the last five minutes saw constant kilbride attacks being broken up and cleared from under the home team's goal posts. A pointed free in the last minute was all they could muster to end the game on a score line of 1-11 to 2-6. Adult Hurling - the team commence there Junior hurling league campaign tonight (Wednesday, April 22) with a home game against local rivals Bray Emmets. Throw in is 7.15pm in Pairc Na Sillogue. Best of luck to Jim and the squad for the season. Under-12 football - The lads lost their first outing of the year to Ashford last Monday. Mentors Frank Walsh and Hugh Gallagher were happy with the effort on the night. There is plenty of talent in this team and results will follow as the season progresses. Nursery - For three to six-year-olds continues every Friday night in the field, starting at 7pm. All are welcome. Under-8s and 10s football - Training continues this Friday at 7pm in the field. All are welcome. Under-14 ladies - Clan Na Gael 8-5, Rathnew 5-9. Great away win for girls in their first fixture. They play in Enniskerry tomorrow (Thursday) against An Tochar. Throw in is 7pm. Please come along and give this young team much needed support. Draw - Tickets are now on sale for the Garden County Development Draws and can be purchased from Gary Kavanagh at 086 8567262, Dara Connolly at 086 1741050 or any club mentor or committee member. They are priced at €50 and this enters you for three draws on May 29, June 26, and July 24 with total prize fund of €66,750. Log into Enniskerrygaaclub.com for all up to date club info. BrAY EMMETS Lotto - The numbers drawn were  23, 18, 4, and 24. There was one  €25 Lucky Dip  winner, congratulations to Raymond Donohoe. The next jackpot will be €12,700.  Please sign up, it's a fantastic way of supporting the club and winning some cash.  Club Dinner Dance - The annual club dinner dance takes place on April 24 in the Royal Hotel, Bray. to reserve tickets text Ann Healy at  087 2556193 up until noon on. They can be collected between 8.30 and 9pm on Wednesday at the clubhouse.  Tickets will not be for sale at the door on the night. Charity cycle in aid of Purple House cancer support - When: April 25 at 9am. Entry closing date: April 23 at 11.59pm. Distance: 45km - 100km. Where: Bray Emmetts GAA Club, Old Conna Avenue, Bray, Co. Wicklow. The Skoda Cycle Series Tour of Wicklow is back for 2015. Challenge yourself riding 100km or 45km in the scenic Wicklow Mountains.  Request a sponsorship card by emailing info@purplehouse.ie or create your own fundraising page on www.mycharity.ie Membership is due! Log onto http ://brayemmets.com/brayemmets/membership Peil Abu /Tag Gaelic Football - Peil Abu , every thursday at 7. Cost €5. Open to all over 18. All you need is runners and plenty of water. Contact Gary on 086 8545 100 if you are interested or turn up on the night. This is a great non-contact way to get fit and have fun. Men's Junior Football - The men's Junior football team are back training on Wednesday evenings at 7.15 pm and Sunday mornings at 10.00 am, in Old Conna. Anyone interested in playing is welcome. come to training or  contact Ian Smith 086-85157232 for further details.   Adult Camogie -  This year Bray Emmets are entering a team in the Wicklow Adult Camogie League. it will be the first time in 35 years that the club has fielded an adult camogie team. This is a great opportunity to capitalise on the fantastic progress that has been achieved in the past 7 years. If you would like  to take part in this great  adventure please contact camogiebray@gmail.com. Training is every Wednesday 7.45-9pm on 3G. Congratulations to the victorious Under-14 camogie team! Camogie Féile  - The Under-14 camogie team made their own little piece of Bray Emmets history, by being the first camogie team to qualify through Wicklow for the National Camogie Féile on Saturday.  Six games were played. Five victories, over Knockanana (2-0), Kiltegan (3-1), Carnew (4-1), Donard (2-4) and Carnew (5-1) again in the semi-finals.  The final game after extra-time was won by Knockanana by 2-1, so they topped the qualification. This was a huge squad effort, led by the experienced Eleanor Carroll-Hayes, Rachel Rice and Leah Carroll in particular.  Defence was a major corner-stone and in that regard Lauren Healy, Sarah Davis and Laura McGarry were to the fore.  Mentors, Anne Carroll and Paul Sweeney were also very complimentary of the younger players contribution - Amy Butler, Sarah Lambe and Catherine McGarry. Other players that earned spectator admiration were Shauna O'Kelly, Alannah Henry and Jordan O'Brien.   Tá na cailíní ag tnúth go mór le Féile na nGael anois i gCúige Uladh. Foireann : Alannah Henry, Alice O'Doherty, Amy Butler, Amy Healy, Caoimhe Byrne, Catherine McGarry, Eleanor Carroll-Hayes (Captaen, 6-3), Emma Doyle, Jordan O'Brien, Laura Butler, Lauren Healy, Laura McGarry, Leah Carroll (2-0), Neasa Ryder (1-0), Rachel Messitt, Rachel Rice (5-2), Róisín Murphy, Sarah Davis, Sarah Lambe (1-2), Sarah-Lily Lynch, Shauna O'Kelly, Shauna Ryan (1-0), Sinéad Quigley, Síofra Ní Mhidigh. Bainisteoir  -  Tomás Ó Midheach.      Senior Hurling - Another great win in the Dublin League by the senior hurlers, who travelled all the way over to Rush Co Dublin, home of the market gardening in Ireland, to keep the unbeaten run going, with a score line of 2-19 to 1-10. A tight first half saw score for score, with points from Eoin and Ben McCormack, Nikki Sweeney, a monster from Jim Doyle and Cian O'Byrne converting frees, we kept our noses in front managing a nice lead at the break 11 points to 1-04.  Facing into the wind in the second half our lads really turned on the style, throwing the ball around and picking off scores from all angles,  Nine different Bray players got on the score board, Gearoid Murphy struck the first goal, followed by another from Brian Duggan.  With our backs playing really solid, lead by Paul Barry, Harry Stephenson, and Ben McCormack, St Maurs were finding scores hard to come by.  Loran Pratt was introduced mid­way through the second half and certainly made his presence felt.  Paddy Lee also made his first appearance this year back after injury. Scorers on the day Ciano (11, 6f & 2 65s), Lennon (3) Padraig, Jim, Nicky, Eoin, Ben (1 each) Duggs (1.) Gearoid (1.)Itappears there is a break now in this league our next match not until June 23 at home to Good Council. Many thanks to all our supporters who travelled over, you certainly were notdisappointed. Junior hurling league starts Wednesday evening in Enniskerry, 7.30 throw in. Hurling Féile - The Under-14 hurling Féile team played their delayed semi-final on Tuesday evening in Arklow Rocks ground.  They came up against a very tidy and proficient Carnew team and despite all the lads giving 100% effort right up to the final whistle they lost 5-07 to 2-02.  The lads from the south of the county were just that bit stronger than us and despite the best efforts of the Bray team led by a ferociously determined Davy Maloney they were just unable to keep in touch.  The team should be proud of their effort as they did their very best and represented the club really well by reaching this stage of the competition.  Team : Rory Lambe, Aaron O'Rourke, Michael Timmons. Sebastian Coleman, Conor Hardiman, Davy Maloney (Captaen), Phillip Jacob, Gavin Henderson, Sam Kearney, Jack Treacy, Cathal Eddy, Seán McDonagh, Tadgh McCarthy, Zak Collins, Peter Aherne, Oisín Drury, Rory Mulcahy, Eoin Holmes. Bainisteoir - Larry Timmons.  Under-12 Hurling - Bray Emmets vs Glenealy - Bray Emmets hosted Glenealy  on Monday evening last. Bray played with the breeze in the first half and steadily built up a lead though the half. Glenealy though are nothing but a proud club and their player's tenacity shone through and they never let the Bray team fully settle as they continually hooked, blocked and tackled.  The move of the first half saw three of the forwards, Tim, Adam and Evan combine to work the ball first left the right before Evan crashed the ball to the net. Cian, ever dangerous sent in a rasper of a shot that clipped the post to leave the score at the end of the half 1-5 to 0-2.  The second half saw a number of positional changes by both teams but still the intensity of the match didn't drop. John up front allied by Luan, Quintin and Nathan continued to add scores. This was bolstered by the backs now made up of Tim, Art, Jamie and Conor who played powerful but clever hurling and sought to play passes to either side of the pitch. Glenealy though managed to find a way back into the match, in true credit to their heritage, by scoring two goals from close in frees and by another from a powerful shot from the side of the pitch.  Bray however refused to give up and despite losing their talismanic midfielder Oscar H to a nasty cut on the back of his ear (stitches will be on show soon) the remaining midfielders piled the pressure onto the Glenealy team. They were now playing their best hurling and scored a number of points as a result of fantastic free flowing moves built quickly from the back and also because of constant pressure from Simon and Adam, now in the forward line, and managed to close the game out. Final score: Bray Emmets 2-9, Glenealy 3-3. Bray People 
