sport football
{ Jack Pitt-Brooke 
    September 30 2014 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/soccer/champions-league/matic-makes-headway-after-mourinhos-men-almost-misfire-30628507.html }
Jose Mourinho said last week that his Chelsea side are "far from being a perfect team" but they produced most of a near-perfect away performance in Lisbon last night to go top of Group G. The only issue was wasteful first-half finishing which meant that Chelsea only won by an unflattering 1-0 scoreline. Chelsea shredded a lively but reckless Sporting team with counter-attacking football and Andre Schurrle could have scored four early goals before Nemanja Matic headed in Cesc Fabregas' free-kick 11 minutes before the break. Diego Costa played all 90 minutes, despite Mourinho admitting his inclusion was a "risk", but he was excellent, holding the ball up, imposing himself on the game, and terrifying defenders. On another day he might have had another hat-trick, but he never appeared constrained by his troublesome hamstring and he certainly looked like a man looking forward to Sunday appointment with Arsenal. Chelsea's problems this season have largely been at the other end but they were solid and disciplined here, keeping just their third clean sheet of the campaign. Sporting play enjoyable attacking football, and have the brilliant Nani on the wing, yet their best chances were all from distance. John Terry and Gary Cahill had comfortable evenings while Matic - who knows Lisbon very well - was excellent in midfield. With Schalke and Maribor drawing in Germany, Chelsea are now top after two games, with two matches against the Slovenian side coming up in which they can ensure passage into next year's knockout phases. Both of Mourinho's other Champions League triumphs came in the second season of a spell, and this side will surely be contenders in 2015. Sporting were admirably keen to play expansive football in front of a fervent home crowd but they were expanding rather too far for most of the first half. Chelsea missed enough chances to win the game a few times over before Matic's header gave them the lead 11 minutes before the break. It was clear by the second minute of the match that Chelsea would not exactly have to probe and tease in order to make chances here. In their very first attack, Oscar simply rolled the ball forwards to Diego Costa who was in on goal, storming through the Sporting back-line that was recklessly high and open wide. Costa's hamstrings did not seem to impede him but when he reached the goal, he could only shoot at Rui Patricio. Schurrle, preferred to Willian on the right wing, was the most dangerous player, driving through the vast gap between left-back Jonathan Silva and centre-back Naby Sarr, but never quite able to convert his chances. His best one came after Sarr slipped and Schurrle met Hazard's precise low cross only to shoot carelessly wide of goal. If Chelsea worried at that point that their chance was gone, they need not have done. After two brisk Sporting counter-attacks which came to nothing, Chelsea took the lead with a goal of surprising simplicity. Chelsea had a free-kick on the left after Hazard was fouled. Cesc Fabregas floated it over the far post where Matic peeled away and looped a header over Patricio. It would have been a minor miracle had Sporting been level at the break and while they felt they should have had a penalty when Adrien Silva's shot hit Gary Cahill near his shoulder, it was a weak case. Chelsea's only regret was that their half-time lead was just one. If some of Sporting's defenders looked cowed by the occasion, Nani did not. He came out for the second half desperate to punish Chelsea for their early profligacy. With Sporting's first attack after the restart, he stormed down the left, cut back inside and flicked the ball behind him to an overlapping run that never came. Soon after, Nani made the same run but took on Branislav Ivanovic instead and was brought down on the edge of the box, only for Mateu Lahoz to wave for play to continue. But for all their vigour, Sporting were still just as open at the back. Oscar was next to run through on goal, denied again by the advancing Patricio. Then it was Costa, charging through the middle, and Sporting centre-back Mauricio injured himself committing a foul so cynical he might have been dismissed for it anyway. Hoping to close up a game that might have felt slightly too open, Mourinho withdrew Oscar for Jon Obi Mikel. In Mikel and Matic he had a physical screen to block Sporting's counter-attacks, while Costa continued to be dangerous up front. But Patricio stood strong to earn a warm embrace from Mourinho at the end. The manager might have wanted a few more goals, but will otherwise be pleased. (© Independent News Service) Round-up: Paris St Germain made light of the absent Zlatan Ibrahimovic to claim a 3-2 victory over Barcelona. Barca had not conceded a goal this season but David Luiz, Marco Verrati and Blaise Matuidi all punctured their defence to give the French champions three points. Luiz put the home side ahead in the 10th minute only for Lionel Messi to equalise two minutes later at the end of a sharp move before Verrati's 26th-minute header put PSG in front again. Matuidi caught the Barca defence snoozing again early in the second half and although Neymar pulled one back with a fine goal almost immediately PSG held firm. PSG lead Group F with four points, with Barca on three and Ajax third with two points after drawing 1-1 with APOEL, who featured Cillian Sheridan in their line-up. Both sides were left regretting missing chances to seize all three points. Gustavo Manduca's penalty just after the half-hour for APOEL cancelled out Lucas Andersen's 28th minute opener. Schalke 04 had to come from a goal down to rescue a 1-1 draw against underdogs Maribor having failed to replicate their improving Bundesliga form in the Champions League. Damjan Bohar gave the Slovenians a surprise lead in the 37th minute with Klaas-Jan Huntelaar levelling 11 minutes after the restart. Athletic Bilbao missed a chance to ignite their stuttering season when they were beaten 2-1 at BATE Borisov. Irish Independent 
