sport football
{ Eamonn Sweeney 
    April 01 2012 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/rugby/a-better-class-of-arrogance-26838316.html }
There are few things I dislike more than people trying to glorify their own sport by slagging off other sports. And there are few articles more boring than the one which explains why a columnist dislikes rugby, soccer, golf, cricket or whatever else. I've written one of those, on Mixed Martial Arts, and it was foolish of me. Some articulate and well-mannered replies from the sport's devotees made me realise that denigrating the game others choose to follow is a fool's pursuit. One of the most striking things about meeting top-class sportsmen is how well rounded their sporting interests tend to be. They'll follow a wide variety of other sports, have friends who play those sports, recognise a commonality between the performers. The notion that their particular church holds a monopoly on the truth is alien to them. Nonetheless, every sport has its zealots who think you can best show your love of X by expostulating on your hatred of Y. The Ban was the most notorious example of this and stained the soul of the GAA until the day when the members of the Association voted to open Croke Park to soccer and rugby. Soccer bigotry is most notably demonstrated by a few brain donors who use such hilarious terms as 'bog ball' and 'stick fighting' when writing about the GAA. Oh my aching sides. And rugby? Well, from time to time I meet people from other sports who suspect that at the back of it rugby people look down on them. I dismiss this as paranoia and tell them that rugby is a very different game these days and shorn of the old elitist nonsense. And even when I hear rugby fans spouting nonsense on radio about how well-behaved they were after the postponement in Paris compared to the Irish soccer fans who'd have torn the place apart in such an eventuality, in the process libelling the supporters who caused not one iota of trouble in the wake of the Thierry Henry incident, I tell myself, 'That's just a handful of cranks. Rugby fans don't despise other games.' Turns out I may have been wrong. Because leafing through the IRFU's report on their series of meetings with the island's rugby clubs, I find the observation that "rugby is appealing to a new non-traditional population, mostly due to the values of the game. Parents in particular see rugby as a sport which reflects the values that they would wish their children to have: integrity, respect and discipline." Of course this is nonsense. If rugby is appealing to an increasing number of people, it's because of the success of Ireland, Munster and Leinster. Kids want to play it because they admire the likes of Brian O'Driscoll and Paul O'Connell and the exciting nature of the sport that they play. But if the IRFU want to delude themselves with stuff about values, surely this is just harmless nonsense. Don't we all need a bit of self-delusion from time to time? You could take exception to the implication that other sports lack the qualities of integrity, respect and discipline. But you'd be wasting your time. Because the IRFU have made the implicit explicit by using the following quote from an unnamed Munster club official: "Parents bring their children to rugby due to the implied values of discipline and respect. These are the two values that many parents want their children to be exposed to. The IRFU needs to work to ensure that these values are explicit, since when we lose them we lose our advantage over other sports." So there you have it. The IRFU thinks it has an advantage over other sports in terms of discipline and respect. What a complacent load of arrogant nonsense. I'm not a great believer in going into moral panics about sporting misbehaviour. When there's some high-profile example, I tend to take the view that shit happens and there's no point in taking the high ground because few sports have entirely clean hands in this matter. But the IRFU's moral posturing makes frankly hilarious reading in the week that England hooker Dylan Hartley was given an eight-week suspension for biting Stephen Ferris and Northampton flanker Calum Clark received a 32-week suspension for deliberately 'hyper-extending' an opponent's arm until it broke.' The Six Nations Championship began with Welsh lock Bradley Davies perpetrating a potentially crippling foul on Ireland's Donnacha Ryan, a foul the like of which I haven't witnessed on a GAA or soccer pitch. Maybe it's just foreign players who depart from the path of righteousness. Afraid not. Remember Alan Quinlan eye-gouging his international team-mate Leo Cullen? Biting, spear tackling and eye-gouging are not exactly integral parts of rugby but they do occur often enough to make nonsense of the idea of the sport as a paragon of sportsmanship. For that matter you could spend a lifetime in Croke Park without seeing anything like Trevor Brennan's assault on a spectator in Toulouse. But I suspect that the IRFU think rugby violence isn't really violence for the same reason that sections of the business community feel white-collar crime isn't really crime, because it's carried out by a better class of person. The IRFU report didn't stop there when it came to attacking other sports. Another quote they seemed particularly proud of, given that it was also picked out from the main body of the report, came from some gent in Galway who observed that "in our village we have one sport where the two local clubs quarrel and another sport which is putting players as young as nine into panels, and parents come down to rugby and see a fun disciplined environment where Johnny gets a game regardless of size or ability . . . this is why rugby is so popular." This combination of hubris, snottiness and self-satisfaction wins Mister Galway the Triple Crown. But how true is this picture of a disillusioned population turning en masse to rugby like benighted savages embracing the Bible? Well, the report tells us that there are 232 rugby clubs in Ireland. Given that there are 257 GAA clubs in Cork alone, national domination seems some way off yet for rugby. In fact, the report tells us that rugby (a) doesn't actually have enough volunteers to cater for the number of kids who want to play mini-rugby because the sport is suffering from a crisis of voluntarism; (b) is sometimes forced to have them coached by people who never played the game; (c) loses many players after under 16 level; and (d) has serious problems holding on to players once they're out of their early 20s. "The numbers involved in playing falls away sharply after that age -- especially when compared to other field sports where playing continues well into the late 20s and 30s," the report notes. Given that rugby trails both soccer and GAA by a wide margin in player numbers, a little more humility might seem to be in order. No chance. To bitterness, add paranoia. Further down the report we find the IRFU alleging that other sports "envy the IRFU and Branch Leadership for implementing a number of initiatives and programmes which have given the sport credibility with players and families . . . evidence was tabled of 'underhand actions' on the part of other codes to discourage players from taking up rugby." Underhand actions? The mind boggles. What are the GAA and soccer clubs doing? Telling young lads that the points on the end of the rugby ball are poisoned? Hiding local rugby pitches under large blankets? Stealing the cars of parents who want to bring their kids to rugby training? Seriously, this is nutcase stuff. It's unlikely that the GAA and the FAI really are consumed with envy of the IRFU for the simple reason that their sports also have credibility with parents and families. And it's perfectly possible to value discipline and respect and let your kids play Gaelic football, soccer, hurling or any other sport. In fact, the picture that the report paints of the IRFU goes some way towards explaining why it has continued to play third fiddle as a team sport in Ireland. GAA people in particular would be aghast to hear of a sport where 90 per cent of money and effort goes into the first XV to the exclusion of all other teams, where clubs cut the number of teams they fielded in order to pay their players, where there is a 'lost generation' of volunteers between 35 and 50 and where, despite an unprecedented boom in public interest, there were 48 fewer teams fielded nationwide last year. But perhaps the most worrying thing is what the report says about the ethos of the sport itself. Rugby's bad attitude towards other sports jars because of its gratuitous nature. Almost everyone wishes the game well. GAA and soccer may still have their clashes but neither sport bears any animosity towards rugby. How sad that the reverse isn't true. There's a lot of interesting stuff in the IRFU report but generosity of spirit is conspicuous by its absence. The report makes rugby look like a sport full of embittered people bitching in their clubhouses about the faults of more successful games. For those outsiders among us who love rugby, it's sad to discover that they think so little of the rest of us. You can only hope that the report, trumpeted as the result of an extensive consultation process with rugby clubs nationwide, doesn't give a true picture. Because if it does, Irish rugby should lose the superior attitude towards other sports and start tackling its own lack of good manners instead. backpage@independent.ie Sunday Indo Sport 
