sport football
{  
    May 04 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/footballer-joe-lennons-new-major-work-on-the-philosophy-of-games-laws-27122618.html }
FORMER Down footballer Joe Lennon, who lives at Stamullen Road, Gormanston, has a lot of achievements to his name over the past 40 years,  on the... FORMER Down footballer Joe Lennon, who lives at Stamullen Road, Gormanston, has a lot of achievements to his name over the past 40 years, on the playing field, as a coach, writer and games analyst on TV. Now he has achieved another remarkable first in the field of philosophy of sport. He was recently conferred with a Ph.D for his research work in identifying and stating this new branch of philosophy dealing with the important area of legislation in games. Those who attend the GAA congresses where this legislation is made and amanded should have a copy of this work, for without it they are missing a very valuable aid for producing better rules. While this work is based on the Gaelic games of football and hurling, it has a much wider application to all invasive body-contact games such as rugby, Aussie Rules, shinty, hockey and lacrosse. His trilogy contains the thesis and two appendices, all of which run to over 1,200 pages. The title of this opus magnum is ‘Towards a philosophy for legislation in Gaelic games’. It is published by The Northern Recreation Consultants, Gormanston, Co. Meath. Appendix 1 was published two years ago. It contains a collection of all known playing rules for football and hurling from 1884 to 1999, a few set of rules for hurling before the GAA was founded, and all the rules for the Hurling Shinty Internationals 1933-2000. A special place was reserved for sets of rules for the hurling played in Cornwall and Devon in the 16th and 17th centuries. These were taken from a book by Richard Carew written in 1602. Interestingly, although the Irish hurlers played the hurlers from Cornwall and Devon in London in 1654and again c. 1700 and, according to some accounts, in Wexford, these hurlers did not use a stick. They hurled the ball by hand! Appendix 2 was published recently by Lennon’s own consultancy company. This book contains a comparative analysis of the sets of playing rules for both games from 1885 to 1999. It also contains the first rules of other similar football and ball-and-stick games such as Australian Rules, Association Football, Rugby Football, Hockey, Lacrosse and Shinty. Lennon’s thesis demonstrates that there is a philosophy that can guide those people who make playing rules in such games. No other philosopher of sport has written about this or even suggested that there is such a branch of philosophy. In achieving this breakthrough, Lennon has demonstrated that he understands the social importance of games in our society, and the need for the rules that govern how these games are played to be sound and compliant with the law. Given that he knew that he was ‘sailing into uncharted waters’, with all he risks involved, it required a lot of confidence to spend almost six years doing this research. His tutor at DCU was the academic lawyer Raymond Byrne who has written many legal texts, and is a specialist in the area of health and safety legislation. Lennon credits his tutor with incredible patience and skill for this topic is well outside the normal research project at Dublin Business School in DCU. His external examiner was Professor William Binchy who, Lennon says, has a remarkable feeling for our national games and other aspects of national culture. In the early days of his research, Joe enquired if there was anyone else working in this particular area and the director of the Journal of Philosophy in Sport in America assured him that there was not. Undeterred by this formidable task, he proceeded to identify what he calls the components or building blocks from which this new philosophy is synthesised. He was confident that those who see themselves as legislators in this area should have a good working knowledge of past rules, a good grasp of the history of rule changes together with the reasons for, and impact, of these changes. A clear vision of the ideal game is an essential starting point. The philosophy of sport is a very late arrival on the stage of philosophic debate for the writings of sports philosophers are almost all of this century and the vast majority of it since the 1960s. Until comparatively recently, sport was not thought of as a topic worthy of philosophic debate. The Greek and Roman philosophers were well aware of sport for it was in many ways more a part of everyday life than drama and art, about which they reflected a lot. However, their writings do not refer to sport at all. The acceptance that sport is a quodlibet or a topic worthy of philosophic debate was established by Johann Huizinga who wrote the seminal work Homo Ludens A Study of the play element of nature. Many others have followed, particularly American philosophers, but Lennon is the first writer on the philosophy of sport to recognise and reflect upon the importance of the rules that govern how our games are played and controlled. In doing this he has made a very significant contribution to our national games, to other similar games and to the philosophy of sport. Lennon synthesised this new branch of philosophy from what he calls components or building blocks such as the rules and their analyses mentioned above, the philosophy of games and of rules, the principles of play, the format, the functions and the characteristics of good rules. He has exmained the process of legislation within the GAA and showed how it has been abused, and how it may be upgraded. Finally, he applied all this to the rules of 1995 and redrafted the entire legislation to show that this new practical philosophy does ‘bake bread’, and achieves the objective standard for such rules that they are easy to read, remember and apply. One example of Lennon’s insight into this whole area of legislation that had proved intractable to generations of GAA people was his design of a new and simple format for rule presentation which the GAA adopted in 1991. For 40 years before this the rules of football and hurling were written down together in a way that it was extremely difficult for most people to make sense of them. There were 38 rules for the two games. Lennon showed that only six rules of play are needed for any game like football or hurling. Four rules of specification are all that is needed, and two or three rules of control depending on the number of different on-field officials. Three in the case of GAA games. It is clear that games like rugby with 28 laws plus variations, and Lacrosse with 86 rules could benefit much from the rationalisation in Lennon’s new philosophy. For the first time, all the functions of rules have been identified, listed and and discussed. ‘If people do not know what the functions of rules are they should not be allowed to amend or rescind them’ Lennon contends. His reflections on the characteristics of good rules led to the identifiocation of nine characteristics that all those involved in rule making should know. He had identified these characteristics of good rules some years before he started reading legal philosophy. He was delighted to find that one of the more important legal philosophers, L. L. Fuller, had identified what he called the ‘eight principles of legality’ and that these principles of Lon Fuller was almost identical with his own characteristics of good rules. Lennon states that there is probably no limit to the number of characteristics of bad rules. Hence Lennon can rightly claim to have done for the legislation in games what the legal philosopher, Fuller, did for the law of the land. Had he done no more than establish the significance of these characteristics, Joe Lennon would have earned himself a place among sports philosophers. However, Lennon has compressed into this thesis sufficient material for several major theses. He is philosophic enough to accept that the GAA not buy this new philosophy even though the Director general has written him a very complimentary letter on his achievement. Joe remembers too well that when he introduced coaching to Ireland in 1964, he was lambasted by various GAA officials including the president, Alf Murray, a fellow county man. This criticism lasted for over a decade but Lennon patiently peddled the message through the papers and courses until gradually the sense of what he was saying dawned on his detractors. Now the GAA has over 2,000 coaches, about 90 of which are full-time professionals! Joe says that he will not be surprised if his latest work takes a decade or more to achieve acceptance in the GAA. Although Appendix 1, the collection of the playing rules, sold quite well around the country he decided to publishg just about 500 or so each of Appendix 2 and th thesis because of the tremendous demands on his time in doing everything himself. Those who remember Joe’s first book Coaching Gaelic Football for Champions, which he wrote and published in 1964 priced 10 shillings, will be pleased to know that a good clean copy of this valued rare book is now fetching about £50. The hardback editions of the each of the three books in this latest publicatio cost £19.50 each. The three can be bought in an attractive hard case for £60 and are available from booksellers in Drogheda - Easons and the Wise Owl; both Carrolls bookshops in Dundalk, and the Wise Owl in Swords as well as other bookshops in Dublin, Cork, Galway and Limerick. He said he could not get a bookshop in Belfast to take a copy! 
