sport football
{ Eamonn Sweeney 
    September 16 2018 05:30 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/ladies-football/numbers-speak-volumes-37320313.html }
One of the most jaw-droppingly exhilarating moments of the last sporting year did not involve a shot, a save or a solo run. It didn't even happen on the field. It was the announcement of the attendance at the ladies football final.  That's because 46,286 was a figure to conjure with. Comfortably the year's biggest attendance at a women's sporting event in Europe, 18,000 greater than the crowd at the European Championship soccer final and almost three times bigger than that at the Women's Rugby World Cup final. It was also bigger than the crowds at the Pro14 final, the concluding game of the World Series, four of the six provincial football and hurling finals and that month's Champions League home games for Chelsea, Roma and Benfica.  The attendance wasn't just a huge feather in the cap of ladies football, it also seemed symptomatic of changed times for Irish sport. Over the past few years a revolution has been taking place in Irish sport. Women haven't been appealing for parity of esteem, they've been demanding it. That 46,286 seemed like an illustration of what can be achieved in this respect, a kind of crowning glory. Yet when it came to Irish women's sport, it turned out we hadn't seen anything yet as 2018 has been utterly extraordinary - two hugely impressive world title defences by Katie Taylor, European golds for youth athletes Sarah Healy and Rhasidat Adeleke, world junior athletics medals for Sommer Lecky and the 4x100m relay team, double world Paralympic cycling gold for Katie-George Dunlevy and Eve McCrystal, European silver for the modern pentathlon team and a record five golds at the European underage boxing championships. Then, to top it all, came the achievement of the women's hockey side in becoming the first Irish team to reach a World Cup final.  Why mention all these other sports on the day of the football final? Because in a way all those performers who've made 2018 a largely female-centred one in terms of Irish international success are part of a movement. And perhaps the most popular and high-profile sport in that movement is ladies football. It's easy to underestimate how hard the likes of today's teams have had to battle for recognition. Even though they were recognised as one of the country's finest teams in any sport, the Cork team which won 11 out of 12 titles between 2005 and 2016 never got to play in Páirc Uí Chaoimh. They might have drawn crowds of more than 30,000 to Croke Park but their success was regarded as not quite big enough by the powers that were within their own county. Invisibility has been one problem for women playing sport in Ireland. Condescension has been another. In this respect there was something very encouraging about the general consensus that last week's camogie final was a pretty awful match. It was being treated like any other All-Ireland final. The 'didn't ye do well to do turn up' attitude has been decommissioned. Camogie, and its attendances, still suffer from the fact that its rules, in particular the clamp-down on physical contact, encourage the idea that it's a severely attenuated version of hurling.  Ladies football, on the other hand, is recognisably the same game as its older brother. In fact in certain respects, the elimination of frees for picking the ball off the ground, the removal of timekeeping responsibilities from the referee so that everyone knows exactly how much time is left, it's actually pioneered innovations that improve the game as a spectacle. The failure of Gaelic football as a whole to adopt these changes may have something to do with male pride. Today is a mouth-watering final between two superb teams. But, in the same way that Barcelona describe themselves as more than a club, the ladies football final is more than a game. It is an affirmation of pride and strength, an occasion with a flavour of its own. The noise of the crowd even sounds different from that at other big games. A different kind of voice is being heard. One of the things the current strength of ladies football has done is shine a  light on the achievements of the sport's pioneers. In the '80s the Kerry journalist Eamon Horan was writing in Magill magazine about how the Kingdom's all-conquering team were combining for goals that would have done credit to any of the top male teams. The nine-in-a-row won by that team went largely unnoticed at the time but the achievements of their successors are earning them a retrospective respect. When you see women on Twitter invoking that Kerry team and the later Cork side to pull up journalists who said that in 2019 Dublin would bid to become the first team to win five All-Irelands in-a-row, it feels like something has changed. And changed for the better.  Will that 46,286 be surpassed this year? I don't know. It's hard to beat the Mayos for turning up in huge numbers to support their team. But some day a ladies football final will fill Croke Park because that is the direction in which the arrow of history is pointing. The attendance has doubled within a decade. Today Ireland's most remarkable sporting success story of recent years takes centre stage again. Let Croke Park shake. Sunday Indo Sport 
