sport football
{  
    September 02 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/dedication-and-innovation-the-secret-of-ulster-success-25964494.html }
THERE are two reasons in particular why teams from Ulster have been so successful in the All-Ireland senior football championship since 1991, during which time they have won six of the 14 titles on offer. In the previous 107 years of the GAA, Ulster teams won just eight All-Irelands - Cavan 5, Down 3. Firstly, they have been more progressive in adapting new ideas and secondly, GAA involvement extracts a far greater level of personal commitment from practically everybody involved in the game in Ulster, particularly in the Six Counties, than in the other provinces. It is the amalgamation of these two concepts which is driving northern teams to the top and this reached its pinnacle in 2003 when Tyrone played Armagh in the All-Ireland final. There has been a lot of criticism of these two counties, in particular from outside Ulster, in recent years, fuelled by a failure to understand how the counties have moved on in terms of team preparation and general attitude towards winning in modern sport. That criticism tends to home in on individual players or managers, but in reality it is based on genuine ignorance by many GAA people of how much Ulster football has moved ahead of the rest of Ireland in their use of the components which constitute success in modern sport. The end result does not please a lot of traditional GAA people so they simply lash out at everybody connected with northern teams, with comments such as: "Ah, sure them northern teams are destroying Gaelic football". The first time that people in other provinces were exposed to the adventurous nature of Ulster GAA people was when Down arrived on the scene in 1959 wearing tracksuits and nearly caused a revolution. The Down secretary at the time, Maurice Hayes, who is still going strong, once told me that this happened because drainpipe trousers were all the rage then. One day a Down sub who was wearing drainpipes to keep warm was called into action near the end of a game. But he couldn't get the drainpipes off over his football boots and the game was nearly lost while he took off the boots to get rid of the drainpipes. Maurice decided there and then to equip the Down players with tracksuits in future. Those Down teams brought a lot more than just tracksuits to Gaelic football and their football style WAS revolutionary, which was proven when they inflicted defeats on Kerry in 1960 and '61 in Croke Park. In simple terms, Down smashed one of the great unwritten laws of Gaelic football at the time - that players must stay in their own positions, or zones, on the field. This was the Kerry bible under Dr Eamon O'Sullivan but the Down players, by roaming far and wide, destroyed that. That Down team also introduced the concept of breaking the high ball away from an opponent which previously was almost unheard of. It was used specifically to prevent the great Mick O'Connell from dominating midfield play. These Down tactics were subject to the same level of abuse then as some of the play of Tyrone and Armagh is today. IN modern times, vast amounts of resources, financial and otherwise, have been invested by Ulster GAA people in coaching, player management and motivation, sports psychology and other scientific components of modern sport. A visit to the website of the Ulster Council gives an indication of the extent to which the nine Ulster counties have progressed along these routes and it is clear that they are miles ahead of many counties elsewhere in Ireland. Where Ulster score heaviest is that they have an integrated programme of preparation for all players, from those aged 10 to the most elite performers at inter-county level. Clearly money has not been spared and they were the first province to have a High Performance Director in former Derry footballer Dr Eugene Young. If I list some of the topics that have been discussed and acted upon in Ulster in recent times you will get a flavour of what I mean: Imagery Training and Mental Rehearsal; Burnout within Gaelic Football; Hydration Protocol; Presenting Nutrition to the younger player; Biomechanics of kicking; Crisis points in player development. My old friend Larry McGann from Knocknavanna Gaels would be struggling to even understand what these things mean, let alone put them into practice, and there are an awful lot of Larrys in the other three provinces! In simple terms, the Ulster Council has for many years raised the bar regarding modern training and preparation methods and is not afraid to draw on sports expertise from all over the world. This in turn has kick-started an awareness of these topics in every Ulster county and what Tyrone and Armagh in particular have brought to team preparation and player management is the result. They have introduced ideas, concepts and outside experts of all sorts from other sports and none. The result has been undreamt of success for these two counties, who have shared the last eight Ulster championships and each won the Sam Maguire for the first time. Of course all the investment of time and money by Ulster Council and the counties would have been useless without the fanatical will to succeed in the Six County teams in particular, or at least most of them. GAA membership in the 26 counties for the vast majority means simply getting the key to play football or hurling and wear a club, college or county jersey - no more, no less. But in Derry, Antrim, Fermanagh, Tyrone, Armagh and Down in particular, GAA membership means a lot more than that. It means Irish identity, whatever your politics, religion or whether you are rich or poor. That may be a devalued concept in some parts of Ireland but it means everything to GAA members in those counties. It sustains them, gives them self-esteem and in the case of county players, drives them to unparalleled heights of dedication in pursuit of victory. When that is backed up by the sophisticated training and preparation outlined earlier, you get the modern Ulster team - super-fit, tactically astute and supremely confident. Some people in the other provinces do not like the finished product as exemplified by Armagh and Tyrone. Some people were scornful of Down in 1960 too! These northern teams are the product of modern-day sports thinking which is used to exploit their own high levels of natural ability. Already some of their methods are being copied by others, including that bastion of Gaelic football tradition, Kerry. It is all part of the evolution of the game and the task for the GAA is to ensure that evolution does not bring a diminution in the skill level of the great game in favour of mere physical prowess. Sports science and methodology have their place in the GAA as in other sports. But it is a matter for legislators, through the refereeing and match control system, to ensure the true spirit of amateur sport that has always driven Gaelic football is maintained at all times. Whether some people like it or not, the Tyrone and Armagh teams are the product of the latest in world sports science in all its forms, allied to the sort of incredible personal and county dedication that can only be admired in these times of sports opulence verging on decadence. eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
