sport football
{  
    December 28 2019 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/sport/other-sports/the-sports-review-of-the-year-38802975.html }
January - Balbriggan native Ronan Michael travelled a road seldom walked by Irish rugby league players when he signed a 12-month academy contract with English professional outfit Huddersfield Giants on a 12-month academy contract. The move was all the more remarkable given that the talented teenager only took up the game less than two years ago. Ronan was spotted by Huddersfield scouts when playing for Ireland Under-17s in the first half of 2018 and was given the chance of a trial in July before being offered an academy contract. • In soccer, Glebe North progressed to the next round of the Charlie Cahill Cup thanks to a sensational strike from Ian Devine. Glebe hosted Leixlip on a cold January morning and it finished 1-1 after an entertaining 90 minutes. Then, within a minute of the start of extra time, Devine produced a sensational volley from an acute angle to finally give Glebe the lead they deserved. Glebe sat back for the remainder of the game and comfortably saw out a 2-1 victory which saw them safely through to the next round of the competition. Two late goals helped Swords Celtic snatch all three points as Portmarnock fell to their first home defeat of the season. The home side dominated the game for long spells. However, a number of squandered chances ensured Swords remained in the game and their never-say-die spirit was rewarded late on with two goals in the final 15 minutes from Johnny Lyons. • Balbriggan RFC kept their Leinster Division 2B title destiny firmly in their own hands after they comprehensively defeated nearest challengers Edenderry to return to the top of the table. Balbriggan laid the foundations for their victory during a dominant first half where they took a 20-0 lead. • Dublin's footballers saw off old foes Meath in the O'Byrne cup semi-finals, but it took a penalty shootout to do so after the sides finished 1-12 apiece. Jim Gavin sent out a third-string team to take on the Royals, yet an impressive 6,000 patrons travelled to Donnybrook to take in one of GAA's most enduring rivalries. Conor McHugh looked to have won it at the death for the Dubs with a penetrating run and fisted point, only for Conor Mullally to drag down Donal Keogan at the expense of a 76th-minute black card and equalising free from Mickey Newman. It mattered little, however, with Dublin showing all their customary coolness in the shootout. • In basketball, a fifth defeat on the trot for Griffith College Swords Thunder left Dave Baker's side nervously looking over their shoulders, with the Fingal outfit sitting just three points clear of Keane's SuperValu Killorgin who were second from bottom. Swords went into the match shorn of top scorer Elijah Mays and the Northern side powered clear in the second half, eventually winning by 90-76. • Malahide RFC gave their promotion hopes a shot in the arm thanks to an impressive bonus-point victory over Eric Miller's young Seapoint side. This was Mals' third victory on the spin and lifted them up to fifth spot, just four points behind Omagh in third. Malahide secured the bonus point late on when Marcus McAllister collected a pinpoint Shane O'Brien crossfield pass to go in at the corner. • There was a rare evening of disappointment for Dublin as Westmeath claimed the O'Byrne Cup with a five-point win at Parnell Park. For the most part Dublin gave away too many turnovers and looked vulnerable every time Kieran Martin got on the ball. This was Westmeath's first title since 1988 and second in all and they were fully worth their victory at Dublin County Board headquarters. • History was made at the Woodlands Golf Club in Melbourne as Portmarnock's Conor Purcell became the first Irishman to win the Australian Amateur Championship. The 20-year-old Fingal native kept his nerve late in the day as he defeated Australian Nathan Barbeiri on the first extra hole of sudden death, after the pair had finished level after 36 holes. • Skerries Town remained second in soccer's Leinster Senior League 1A Sunday table following a hard-fought 0-0 draw away to in-form Templeogue. Alan Sweeney's side had propelled themselves well and truly into the title picture with a fine run of form. • Sinead Aherne's absence was felt by the Dublin ladies footballers side as they suffered their first defeat since March 2018 - by a four-point margin at the hands of Donegal. Mick Bohan went with a relatively youthful side, with former Dublin minor Kate Sullivan handed her league debut in the forward line. The St Sylvester's player battled gamely on the night, but Dublin were crying out badly for seven-time All-Star Aherne. • Dublin's men bounced back from an opening-night league defeat against Monaghan as they comfortably saw off Galway at HQ by 1-15 to 0-7. The result spared them the fate of back-to-back league defeats under Gavin for the first time. Cormac Costello managed to squeeze himself more centrally into Gavin's early-season thoughts, scoring 0-6 - five from play. • The Dublin North hockey team secured the local bragging rights as they completed the league double over Portrane in their Leinster Division 1 clash. Dublin North had beaten Portrane 4-2 earlier on in the season and they repeated that success thanks to goals from Shane Dempsey, Michael Gahan and Adrian Sweeney. The win lifted Dublin North off the bottom of Division 1 and that place was now occupied by Portrane who had not tasted victory since a 2-1 win over Avoca back in September 2018. • There was a massive blow for basketball in the Fingal area when it was announced that Griffith College Swords Thunder had disbanded and as a result would no longer take part in the Men's Super League. The club began the season relatively well and were in third spot in November 2018, but head coach Dave Baker began suffering with health problems and without his input the club apparently fell apart at the seams. Since gaining promotion to the Super League for the 2014/15 season, Baker's side had been one of the most consistent in the country. They finished as runners-up in their debut season, were beaten finalists in the National Cup 12 months later and won the latter in 2017 when they defeated Killester 72-51 in the decider. • Jim Gavin's record of reaching the NFL Final in each of his seasons in charge of Dublin looked very much under threat as his team were edged out by a hungry Kerry side. The Dubs trailed 1-11 to 2-6 after a breathless first half, but they recovered, battling back to parity from four points down with 14 men in the home straight. The game looked set to end in a draw until Kerry corner back Peter Crowley scored a 74th-minute winner. • In soccer's Leinster Senior League, Swords Celtic's poor run continued as they struggled to create any chances of note in a 2-0 defeat to St Mochta's. • The Swords Thunder ladies basketball team finished their season in style with a well-deserved victory over Limerick Celtics at ALSAA. Joan Black's side had endured a tough season following a rebuilding programme and came into their final game sitting bottom of the Division One Northern Conference, but a devastating six-minute salvo in the third quarter proved crucial as they completed their campaign with an 81-61 victory. • Malahide United stormed into the semi-finals of soccer's Charlie Cahill Cup thanks to a sensational four-goal haul from the excellent Jordi Ebanda. Malahide were on a revenge mission, having lost away to Newbridge three weeks previously in the league, and Ebanda scored a magnificent first-half hat-trick, before Mals added three more in the second period. • Jim Gavin's Dublin side bounced back from a narrow defeat to Kerry a week earlier to see off rivals Mayo in a one-sided contest in Croke Park. Having won their opening three league games, the Westerners arrived at HQ with a quiet confidence, but they found themselves six points adrift at half-time. Man of the match Cormac Costello's superb 18th-minute goal put the Dubs in control and Gavin's side eventually won out by eight points. • Ballyboughal girl Niamh Fay had a bittersweet afternoon after she lost her Ringa Ladies Boxing Cup decider in the Latvia capital but still came away with a trophy. Fay had produced two impressive displays to win through to the decider and the final against Denmark's Melissa Mortensen started well for Fay as she won over the judges in the first round. There was dismay for Ballyboughal's finest when the verdict went to Mortensen on a 3-2 split decision, but there was some consolation when she was then awarded the 'Will to Win' trophy - selected by the organisers - for her efforts throughout the competition. • Balbriggan RFC secured the win they needed against Arklow to secure a play-off place but missed out on automatic promotion as Edenderry finished top of the pile in Division 2B. Nothing but a win would do for Balbriggan, who were hoping to set up a promotion play-off date with Railway Union, and it was only from the last play of the game that skipper Caldwell broke from a maul and got over the line for the decisive score. • Malahide RFC's march towards a top-four finish showed no sign of stopping after they picked up their 10th win from 12 games to climb up to fourth spot in the AIL Division 2C table. They had begun the day in fifth, just behind Omagh, but with the Tyrone side losing to Midleton it meant Brendan Guilfoyle's men moved into fourth which was the final play-off spot. Leo Weiss and Rory Kavanagh were amongst the scorers as Malahide recorded a gritty 33-22 away victory in Limerick against Thomond. • Malahide United FC reached the final of the Charlie Cahill Cup following a stirring win against Bangor Celtic. Ger Coughlan's side went behind early on, but goals from Darren Craven, Levi Boardman and Ciaran McGahon booked a place in the decider. • Donabate native Dinny Corcoran was named SSE Airtricity League/soccer Writers' Association of Ireland Player of the Month for February. The Bohemians striker led the line superbly in the opening weeks of the season with three goals in as many games - including the winner in the Dublin derby against rivals Shamrock Rovers at Dalymount Park. That fine form was a major factor in Keith Long's side climbing to the top of the Premier Division table against the odds. • Stephen Ward closed the chapter on his Ireland career, ending an eight-year stint with the boys in green which yielded 50 caps for the popular 33-year-old Portmarnock native. The Dubliner made his senior debut in May 2011 during a Uefa Nations League game against Northern Ireland and would feature as Ireland qualified for two European Championship Finals tournaments in 2012 and again in 2016. • Dublin's league title hopes were ended by Tyrone as Mickey Harte's side powered to a 1-14 to 1-11 victory - a result which led to questions about this previously all-conquering side. Three Division 1 defeats in a season for the first time under Gavin, no league final berth for the first time since 2012 and all this with a team that included 12 of the 2018 All-Ireland line-up. • Dublin ladies captain Sinead Aherne marked her first competitive start for the county of the season with a terrific 3-3 as Mick Bohan's team registered their fourth consecutive win to book their place in the league semi-finals. Dublin went goal crazy against Monaghan in a 5-15 to 3-10 victory. • Balbriggan RFC were celebrating following a comprehensive 36-7 play-off victory against Railway Union. Having lost out on the Division 2B league title, the team were very focused on the play-off match and the whole season came down to 80 minutes in Malahide where Balbriggan began well and deservedly led 19-7 at half-time. They continued to dominate in the second half and fittingly it was skipper Conor Caldwell who scored the final try. • Dublin hurlers' push for an NHL final spot just fell short as Limerick prevailed by 1-19 to 1-16. For 50 minutes Dublin went toe to toe with the All-Ireland champions, but they subsequently leaked an unanswered 1-5 as the Treaty men showed their class. • Swords golfer Julie McCarthy was picked to play in the Arnold Palmer Cup as a reward for an excellent season stateside where she recorded four successive top-five finishes on the college circuit. The 19-year-old moved from her home club at Forrest Little to Auburn University, Alabama, in January 2017, a move which saw her game come on leaps and bounds in the ultra-competitive college competitions. • There were scenes of jubilation in Whitehall as Malahide United FC edged out Crumlin United to win the Charlie Cahill Cup. Ger Coughlan's side put in a magnificent display as they scored a late equaliser in extra time to force the game to penalties. Dylan McNulty was one of the many heroes on the day as he got down low to his right to keep out Crumlin's fifth penalty, thus giving substitute Levi Boardman the chance to win it for Malahide. • Red-hot Malahide secured a Division 2C promotion play-off place thanks to a dominant victory over rivals Omagh. Tries from Simon Malone, Marcus Mcallister, Danie Poolman, Brendan Guilfoyle, John Shine and David Feenan ensured that the home side picked up a bonus-point victory in what was a near flawless display. • Portmarnock AFC appointed a new management team following the shock decision to end Willie O'leary's six years at the club. The timing of the decision surprised many, including O'Leary who thanked all the players, coaches and supporters for their backing during his six seasons with the club. • Table tennis legend Tommy Caffrey continued his dominance of the sport's veteran's scene when capturing two titles at the National Championships. The Balbriggan man beat both Dublin's Jim Storey and Connacht number one Kieran Burke in straight sets to capture the Over-60s title, before adding the Over-70s title with another straight-sets victory over Ulster's Martin Pickles. • Balbriggan RFC followed up on their promotion to Division 2A of the Leinster League with a comfortable 40-28 victory in the Jenkinson Cup Final against North Meath in Drogheda. • Malahide Cricket Club got their season off to the perfect start by beating Fingal rivals North County by 46 runs. After a slow start Malahide finished their innings strongly and posted a total of 235, mainly thanks to an excellent 37 from just 26 balls from Peter Chase. Kelvin Donnelly claimed three wickets in quick succession to leave North County in serious trouble. Eddie Richardson [52] led a fightback, but Malahide always looked to be in control and further wickets for Chase, James Newland and Matt Ford saw Malahide home. • Another chapter in the long-running saga between the Dublin and Cork ladies footballers ended in a narrow one-point win for Cork after extra time at Nowlan Park in a thrilling league semi-final. Cork looked to have the game won when they went two clear in the final minutes, but two late points from Niamh McEvoy and Nicole Owens tied the scores. A thrilling extra period ended with Cork proving just too strong. • Magnificent Malahide gained promotion for the third time in four years following a brilliant 36-13 win away to Bruff in Division 2C of the AIL. The victory ensured Ricky Evans' side would be playing in 2B for the 2019/20 season, having plyed their trade in Division 1B of the Leinster League as recently as 2016. The Fingal side had to do it the hard way, having been 13-5 down at the interval, but a breathtaking second-half display from the visitors saw them score 31 points without reply to see off their Limerick rivals. • Rivervalley Rangers FC reached the Leinster Senior League's Polikoff Cup Final after holding their nerve in a penalty shootout against Castleknock Celtic. Rangers goalkeeper Yohann Bedos was the hero of the hour, pulling off three penalty saves, including two in the shootout. • The Hills CC maintained their unbeaten start to the season with a narrow victory against Phoenix, with a half-century from Daya Singh helping the home side claim victory. Both sides came into the game unbeaten, but a well-timed half-century from Daya Singh put The Hills in pole position as they posted a target of 210 for Phoenix to chase. Singh proved just as adept with the ball as he claimed three crucial wickets. • Rush Athletic secured promotion to Major Sunday with a very convincing 6-0 victory over Enniskerry. Amazingly this was the first team's fourth promotion in a row, and given the fact all three senior sides (1sts, 2nds and 3rds) gained promotion during the 2018/19 season it showed that football really was booming at the club. This latest demolition meant that the Fingal side had now scored an almost unbelievable 66 goals in just 19 games. • Paul Flynn called time on his Dublin inter-county football career as he made the decision to listen to his body and focus solely on his club Fingallians. Flynn enjoyed a decorated career, winning six All-Ireland medals as well as five NFL titles and four All-Stars. Flynn walked away as Dublin chased a historic five-in-a-row, but the newly appointed GPA chief executive stated he had given all he could give. • Skerries Town finished off a wonderful season with a thrilling 4-3 victory over Inchicore in Park Lane. Alan Sweeney's side were already in celebration mode, having clinched promotion seven days earlier, and a large crowd came out to congratulate them. Elsewhere, there was not so much to cheer about for Brendan Kennedy's Swords Celtic side whose relegation from Senior Sunday was confirmed as their debut season in the top flight ended in disappointment. • Dublin and Wexford shared the spoils in the best match of the hurling summer as Sean Moran sent over a late free to salvage a draw. After 63 minutes of what was a tense and immensely tactical battle, Dublin led by five points, but a missed goal chance by Paul Ryan proved a huge turning point in the match as Wexford scored two late goals to move a point ahead. However, there was late drama as Moran kept his nerve to send over a 20-metre free to force a draw. • The untimely passing of Dublin's Anton O'Toole at the age of 68 was mourned in the capital and further afield. Known affectionately at the Blue Panther, the three-time All-Star and four-time All-Ireland-winning half forward sadly lost his battle with illness but achieved immortality on the football fields during two spells under Kevin Heffernan. • Donabate's Gavin Moynihan picked up his second European Tour top-20 finish in the space of a few weeks when tying for 16th place in the Made in Denmark tournament. The 24-year-old covered the final 18 holes in 66 strokes at Himmerland Golf & Spa Resort, following on from rounds of 74, 68 and 70, to end on six-under par and collect a cheque for €41,400. • A Greg Ford century was the highlight of a very one-sided game in Malahide as the hosts brushed past Muckamore in cricket's Irish Senior Cup. This was very much a revenge mission for the Fingal men as they were shocked by Muckamore last season in the first round. This time around Malahide bowled Muckamore out for 209, with James Newland helping himself to three wickets. Then a 62 from Matt Ford and a 109 from brother Greg proved to be enough to give Malahide a revenge win. • Rivervalley Rangers' first season in the Leinster Senior League finished in the same way as their last in the AUL - with a trophy. Declan Eiver's side secured their first-ever Polikoff Cup with a 2-1 win against CYM Beechwood. • Dublin's footballers made light work of Louth in the opening round of the Leinster Championship despite having Paul Mannion sent off after 24 minutes. Jim Gavin's side showed the Wee County no mercy as they strolled to a 5-21 to 0-10 victory. Cormac Costello put in a man of the match performance at corner forward, scoring 1-12 as Dublin began their quest for five-in-a-row in fine style. • The Hills set up a final against Phoenix in the inaugural Leinster Senior League Cup after a hard-fought victory over Pembroke. It looked like it would be a quick afternoon's work for The Hills after they had bowled Pembroke out for just 114 runs in 34.5 overs, but the Fingal side made hard work of reaching that target before eventually getting the job done with seven overs to spare. • Robbie Flanagan left his role as manager of Leinster Senior League Senior Sunday side Portmarnock, having been in the hot seat for just six weeks. Flanagan cited a new scouting role with Norwich City as the reason for him stepping down but said he would remain at the club to assist the new management team. • John Fay of Swords BC secured his third Irish championship triumph with a notable victory over James McGuinness in the Boy 4 63kg decider at the National Stadium. Fay dominated the contest but did face a worrying moment when a clash of heads caused a cut eye for the Swords man. However, he recovered sufficiently to earn a decision on a 4-1 scoreline. • Naseer Shoukat stole the show as he helped The Hills win the IBI Corporate Finance Leinster Senior League Cup in Milverton. At the age of 53 the all-rounder rolled back the years with a stunning bowling performance which saw him finish with figures of 7-20 in 10 overs. • Dublin footballers barely broke sweat as they cruised past Kildare on a 0-26 to 0-11 scoreline. Kildare actually began the game well and were just two points down after 45 minutes - and it could have been even better for the Lilywhites but for some poor finishing. Those misses would eventually come back to bite Cian O'Neill's side as Dublin pulled clear effortlessly in the final 20 minutes. • Swords golfer Julie McCarthy was in sensational form as she helped the International team beat the USA convincingly in the 23rd staging of the Arnold Palmer Cup. Julie played four matches, winning three of them and halving the other as she played some of her very best golf at the Alotian Club in Arkansas. • A shock four-point win for Dublin in Parnell Park saw their illustrious opponents Galway sensationally dumped out of the All-Ireland SHC. Amazingly, the only scenario that could have ended the 2017 All-Ireland champions' involvement in this year's race for Liam McCarthy transpired after Kilkenny and Wexford also drew in Wexford Park. A late Chris Crummey goal after a tour de force from Conal Keaney saw Dublin deservedly beat Galway for the first time since the 2013 Leinster SHC Final. • Rush man Eoin Morgan blasted a record 17 sixes as he scored a magnificent 148 to set England en route to victory over Afghanistan in the Cricket World Cup. The 32-year-old England captain was in irresistible form as he smashed the fourth fastest World Cup century of all time - off just 57 balls. • Talented winger Adam Foley officially left Glebe North as he signed for Danske Premier Division side Newry City ahead of the new season in Northern Ireland. Foley has long been considered to be one of the most skilful players in amateur football and he enjoyed an excellent season with Glebe, finishing the year as the club's top scorer and Player of the Year. He also received a call-up for the Republic of Ireland amateur squad. • Dublin's 'Drive for Five' remained on course thanks to a 1-17 to 0-4 victory over Meath. Jim Gavin's side enjoyed a 16-point win for what was their 28th consecutive win in the province. It was their ninth successive provincial crown, which was another new record, while Meath's four-point tally was the lowest since 1985 when Dublin overcame Laois. • Clann Mhuire's Oonagh Whyte hit two crucial goals at Netwatch Cullen Park as Dublin ladies claimed their eighth successive provincial title. However, it wasn't all good news as captain Sinead Aherne popped her shoulder as she contested possession with Westmeath corner back Rachel Dillon 11 minutes into the game. Dublin's victory arrived with the minimum of fuss, with the final scoreboard showing 4-11 to 1-7. • The Hills left it very late but ultimately maintained their 100% record in cricket's Leinster Premier League as they made it six wins from six outings. Andrew Kavanagh was the hero of the hour as he smashed a six with just three balls to go to help his side claim victory over Phoenix. • Laois hurlers caused the shock of the summer, storming into their first All-ireland quarter-final since 1979 with a famous victory over Dublin. Laois were 1-12 to 0-10 up at half-time, and although Dublin drew level with 15 minutes to go but the O'Moore county struck back as two monster frees from goalkeeper Enda Rowland saw them home for a huge upset. • The Hills' remarkable start to the season continued as they edged out neighbours Malahide by 33 runs in a thrilling local derby to maintain their 100% record in Leinster competitions. The Skerries men set Malahide a target of 223 thanks to a near one-hundred sixth-wicket stand between Gregory Lambe and Tomas Rooney Murphy. Malahide were on course for victory mid-way through their innings but faltered late on as Tomas Rooney Murphy and Joey Carroll took two wickets apiece. • Niamh McEvoy insisted that Dublin ladies would not be resting on their laurels despite their emphatic 12-point win over Waterford in the All-ireland series Group two opener. In the absence of her injured St Sylvester's clubmate and Dublin captain Sinead Aherne, Mcevoy led the front line with distinction, her 2-4 tally earning her the TG4 Sport Player of the Match award. • A Cormac Costello goal for the men just before half-time broke Cork's resolve after the Leesiders had stayed competitive for the majority of the opening half in their Super 8s match. In the overall context of the game it was the defining score, although Dublin put the icing on the cake with three goals in the final 10 minutes. • There were jubilant scenes in Rush Cricket Club as the local community packed out the clubhouse to watch their favourite son Eoin Morgan lead England to World Cup glory - in what has been described as the most thrilling final of all time. England edged out New Zealand at Lord's in a so-called 'super over' after the game had finished in a tie, which prompted wild celebrations in the clubhouse as friends of Eoin celebrated his success. • Dublin breezed through to the semi-finals of the All-Ireland as they beat Roscommon by 2-26 to 0-14. Dean Rock's early goal helped Dublin ease into a 1-15 to 0-7 lead and the game was as good as over two minutes after the restart when Michael Darragh McAuley struck his second goal in consecutive games. • Ballyboughal's finest Niamh Fay claimed the National Under-18 trophy at 54kg after a convincing victory over Cork opponent Megan Lehane in the decider at the National Stadium. • St Maur's star Ciaran Archer stepped up to the plate yet again as Dublin booked their place in the All-Ireland Under-20 decider with victory over Galway. Dublin hit 2-1 inside the opening six minutes, all from Archer, but had to withstand a powerful Galway start to the second half before progressing to the decider. The Dubs would go on to face Cork who beat Tyrone 2-17 to 1-18 in the other semi-final. • Three goals in five first-half minutes turned Cork's nightmare start into a dream All-ireland final day as their Under-20 footballers claimed the unlikeliest of victories over Dublin at O'Moore Park. When St Maur's star Ciarán Archer found the net in the 12th minute Cork were nine points behind and had yet to score, but they fired back with goals from Blake Murphy, Cronin and Colm O'callaghan to take the lead at the break. Dublin had Karl Lynch Bissett sent off late on, while they also lost Peadar Ó Cofaigh Byrne to a black card, but it was the Cork scoring threat and brilliant defensive display that powered them to victory with 10 of the last 12 points. • Leinster Senior League second-tier club Glebe North put up a great fight, but ultimately the gap between the sides was clear to see as Sligo Rovers - three-time winners of the FAI Senior Cup in this decade alone - eased into the second round with an 8-0 success in front of a 500 crowd at Market Green. Mark Brennan's early goal proved a false dawn for Malahide United as Crumlin United dumped the Fingal side out of the FAI Cup at the first-round stage. • A brilliant second-half showing from the Dublin footballers saw them reach the All-Ireland Final at the expense of Mayo who had gone in at the break with an 0-8 to 0-6 lead. In the second half Dublin went into overdrive. It began with an opening free from Dean Rock, before Paul Mannion and Kilkenny combined to put O'Callaghan through on goal and he did the rest. Mayo's defence was unlocked once again late on as Brian Fenton found the back of the net. • Malahide United welcomed back the LSL Senior Sunday season in emphatic fashion with an eye-catching victory over newly-promoted Maynooth University Town. Both Craven brothers, Darren and Gareth, got on the scoresheet and Sam O'Connor bagged one in between on his debut. • 'I'm not here for a long time, I'm here for a good time' read the banner at the side of the Park Lane pitch as the sun appropriately shone for the Oran Tully charity match between a Bohemians XI and Skerries Town in Park Lane. It was an emotional time for parents Martin and Claire and his brothers Dáire and Conall beforehand when Park Lane erupted into rapturous applause for the well-loved youngster who passed away 12 months earlier from a rare bowel condition. The match raised in the region of €7,000, with the proceeds split between two charities - the Skerries Youth Support Service (SYSS) and the Bohemian Foundation. • Malahide's cricketers were agonisingly defeated in the final of the Sunday Independent All-Ireland Twenty20 Cup by seven wickets at Stormont as Belfast side CIYMS lifted their first-ever national title in any format. Damien Mortimer gave an excellent batting display for Malahide, top-scoring with 57, and that gave his side a healthy total of 139-6, but that tally wouldn't be enough. • Donabate's Gavin Moynihan missed the opportunity for a big pay day and a much-needed boost to his Race to Dubai ranking when he shot a final-round 74 in the Scandinavian Invitation tournament in Sweden. Moynihan started the final 18 holes in a tie for third place but then shot 74 and plummeted down into a tie for 47th by the finish. • Dublin ladies' quest for three All-Ireland titles in a row continued thanks to a 2-11 to 0-11 victory over Cork in the semi-finals. The sides went in level at 0-7 apiece at the break and Cork missed a glorious goal chance to put some daylight between themselves and Dublin in the second half. Then, with time running out, Dublin were awarded a penalty which was easily despatched by Sinead Aherne and that was enough to send the Jackies through to yet another final. • Golf's 2019 Best Cup was won by Malahide GC who defeated Powerscourt GC over two legs in the final. Malahide took a handsome 4-1 lead from their home leg three weeks into the return on the West Course at Powerscourt but quickly found themselves under pressure as Powerscourt won the first four matches. And when Malahide lost the 16th hole in match five to go one down it looked like Powerscourt had a tremendous victory in sight. There was to be one more twist, though, as Malahide's pairing of Oliver Sheedy and Robert Doyle won the 17th and the 18th, sending the match up the 19th in failing daylight. Doyle then played a superb chip from the back of the green to leave himself a short putt which he sank to confirm Malahide's victory. • A season which began so well for The Hills ended in disappointment as they were comprehensively outgunned by Merrion in the LHW Financial Planning Cricket Leinster Premier League semi-final. The Hills began their campaign with 13 straight victories, picking up the inaugural Senior League Cup before winning their opening five Premier League matches. However, Merrion's Oliver Newton proved too hot to handle for The Hills as he ripped through their top order, taking 5-21. The Hills had earlier reduced Merrion to just under 200 runs, but they didn't get close to chasing down that total as Newton ran riot. • Dublin kept their heads late on to force an All-Ireland replay against Kerry despite being reduced to 14 men five minutes before half-time. Jonny Cooper saw red for a cynical foul on David Clifford, but they did have a buffer of a four-point lead as they went in 1-9 to 0-8 ahead at the break. Substitute Killian Spillane turned the game on its head, though, and he looked to have won it for Kerry when he sent over a point late on, but Dublin were in no mood to give up their title easily and equalised in the 74th minute through Dean Rock. • There was disappointment for Portmarnock's Conor Purcell and his Great Britain & Ireland teammates as the USA fought back to win this year's Walker Cup at Hoylake in England. From Purcell's point of view, he got off to the best possible start as he teamed up with Alex Fitzpatrick to win the top foursomes match against John Augenstein and Andy Ogletree 2&1, with the overall match tied at 2-2 after the morning's play. Augenstein gained sweet revenge when winning his singles match 2&1 against the reigning Australian Amateur champion later in the day, but at the half-way point in the match Great Britain & Ireland led 7-5. Purcell also featured in the top match on the Sunday morning, again alongside Fitzpatrick, but after another hard-fought encounter their American opponents prevailed 2&1. • Ireland's international karate athlete Sorcha McCorry and her fellow karate athlete instructor husband Francisco Astudillo were hugely successful at the International karate championships in Tokyo. McCorry, who was entered in four events, placed fourth in the individual women's kata, won bronze in individual kumite (fighting), silver in individual jiyu kumite (fighting) and silver in team kumite. Francisco won two gold and two silver medals. • Brilliant Skerries Town from soccer's Leinster Senior League were too good for Portmarnock as they produced yet another memorable cup performance. Porto found themselves 3-0 down with 15 minutes remaining, and despite pulling a goal back late on it was too little too late as Skerries put themselves in the hat for the next round of the FAI Intermediate Cup. • Dublin ladies completed a magnificent three-in-a-row as they saw off Galway to win the Ladies All-Ireland Championship. A bumper crowd of 56,114 turned up to see Mick Bohan's side take the lead through a deflected Sinead Goldrick goal mid-way through the first half. The poor conditions ensured scores were hard to come by as Dublin went in at half-time 1-0 to 0-1 ahead. The pivotal moment of the game came with 20 minutes to go as Hannah O'Neill finished off a great team move to put Dublin well and truly in the driving seat. Galway got back to within a score of Dublin in the dying minutes, but a late score from Sinead Aherne ensured the Dubs would be lifting the Brendan Martin cup for a third year in succession. • We didn't know it at the time, but Dublin's victory over Kerry in the All-Ireland Final replay proved to be Jim Gavin's final game in the hot seat as he guided his side to a magnificent fifth Sam Maguire on the trot. From the off Dublin, like a wounded beast, took the game to Kerry. By the eighth minute Con O'callaghan, Ciaran Kilkenny (2) and Paul Mannion (2) had all made the scoresheet. Kerry came alive at the end of the opening half as they drew level just before the break, but Eoin Murchan restored Dublin's lead with a magnificent goal just after the restart and they would never be caught again. • Ballyboughal's Niamh Fay returned home to a hero's welcome following her gold medal winning performance at the European Youth Boxing Championships in Bulgaria - and immediately set her sights on competing for Ireland at the Olympic Games. Swords Boxing Club was Niamh's first port of call as the talented 17-year-old was congratulated by family, friends and coaches. Fay defeated the Italian, Romanian, Turkish and Croatian national champions in the space of eight days as she claimed the 54kg title in dominant fashion. • Shelbourne captain Lorcan Fitzgerald was celebrating as the Drumcondra club gained promotion back to the SSE Airtricity League Premier Division. The Swords native and his teammates were presented with the Division 1 trophy in Tolka Park after trouncing Limerick 7-0 in their final fixture. Shels had made sure of their return to the top flight eleven days earlier with a 3-1 victory over title rivals Drogheda United, one that was secured with Fitzgerald's third goal of the season late in the game. • Glebe North's new manager Darrell Mooney got his reign off to the perfect start as he watched his troops come back from two goals down against Drumcondra to progress in the Metro Cup. Mooney, the replacement for Gary McCormack who had parted ways with the club a week earlier, watched his team draw level thanks to goals from Andy Haran and Chris Polis. Then, in extra time, Glebe had Reece Weldon sent off but they showed superior fitness as they scored twice more to seal their progress. • A strong second-half performance from Greystones ensured Malahide began life in Division 2B of rugby's All-Ireland League with a defeat on the opening day of the new season. Brendan Guilfoyle's side were 10-6 up 10 minutes before the break, but a series of handling errors from the home side gave Greystones the platform to take control of the game and pull away for a 25-10 win. • Niamh McEvoy, a key member of the All-Ireland three in-a-row-winning Dublin ladies side, announced that she would be heading Down Under, having been signed by AFLW outfit Melbourne Demons. McEvoy, from the St Sylvester's club, turned in a string of impressive performances for Dublin this year as they completed the historic three-in-a-row following their Brendan Martin Cup success over Galway. • Malahide United FC served notice to the LSL Senior Sunday division with a brilliant 2-0 victory over reigning champions Crumlin United as Darren Craven and Darren Doyle got the goals for the home side. • Former Glebe North winger Adam Foley took home the match ball as his Newry City side got their promotion push back on track with a 5-1 demolition of Ards. Foley was in sensational form as he scored a hat-trick and an assist. • Balbriggan native Ronan Michael signed a one-year full-time contract with top-flight English rugby league club Huddersfield Giants. The Ireland international only secured a deal as an academy prop forward at the Yorkshire club after a trial earlier in the year, but impressed the club sufficiently to earn a full-time contract. Michael only took up the game as a 17-year-old in 2017, playing for Longhorns RL in Ashbourne before being selected for Ireland in the European Championships in 2018. • Swords Thunder ladies picked up their first points of the basketball season thanks to a dominant performance against Limerick Celtics in St Munchin's College. After roaring into a 45-30 lead at half-time the away side pulled away further in the final quarter, with Aoibhinn Byrne capping off an excellent performance with a three-pointer to seal a conclusive 26-point victory. • Donabate professional Gavin Moynihan won more than €57,000 and more importantly gave himself a shot of keeping his European Tour card when finishing fifth in the Open de France in Versailles. Moynihan started the week well down the Race to Dubai rankings, but he reacted brilliantly to the pressure and a final-round 71 sealed his best-ever result. • Skerries Town FC battled the elements as they produced an excellent performance in Portlaoise to deservedly earn a spot in the third round of the FAI Intermediate Cup. Bob McKenna and Karl Young scored the goals. • Holders Ashbourne RFC got their All-Ireland Junior Cup defence off to a perfect start as they eased to a 31-22 victory over Connacht side Greggs. The Meath side led 23-8 at one stage before Greggs responded with two converted tries. However, that mini burst only served as a wake-up call for Ashbourne who stretched clear down the straight with a Justin Whittaker try. • Mourne Celtic roared back into the top three of soccer's AUL Division 3B Saturday thanks to an excellent 6-1 victory at home to Beechwood United. The Skerries side led 3-1 at the break through Tom Mullen, Seamus Farrell and Craig May and added another three in the second half thanks to a double from Kevin Farrell and a second goal from May. • Round Towers Lusk completed an incredible 12 months of football in the club as they claimed the Senior 2 Championship following their 11-point win over Whitehall Colmcille in Parnell Park. Crowned Intermediate champions last year following their dramatic win over Naomh Barrog at the same venue, Lusk completed a remarkable rags to rich story which began in 2015 when they captured the Junior Championship. • Ballyboughal bridged a 47-year gap as they claimed the Intermediate Football Championship final thanks to a 1-11 to 1-10 victory over Trinity Gaels. Gerry Seaver was pivotal to their success as he put in a man-of-the-match performance, with his accuracy from placed balls in the closing stages helping his team get over the line. • Portrane produced their best performance of the season as they roared into hockey's Neville Cup semi-finals courtesy of a convincing 5-2 victory over Glenanne. The Neville Cup, named after two former Portrane players (brothers Paddy and John Neville), is a trophy that Mukhtar Ahmed's side would dearly love to win and on this occasion their goals came from Imran Khan, Rory McKeon, Seamus Stone and Stephen Rogan (2). • Swords native Rene Gilmartin was named as the new Republic of Ireland Under-21s goalkeeping coach on a permanent basis. The Bristol City clubman, who also coaches at Ashton Gate as well as being third-choice keeper, linked up with Stephen Kenny and the Ireland management team and squad ahead of the Euro Qualifiers away to Armenia and at home to Sweden. • Just two years after moving to their brand new home at Sluagh Hall, Swords Boxing Club were celebrating another major milestone after Cameron Bennett landed their first-ever National Senior title. In front of a huge crowd of supporters from both Swords and Balbriggan, Bennett came through a titanic light welterweight decider with Caoimhin Ferguson (Emerald BC, Belfast) to win on a 3-2 split decision. • In rugby Malahide bounced back impressively from defeat against Galwegians as they claimed a bonus-point victory against Belfast Harlequins at Estuary Road, with the all-important fourth touchdown coming from John Shine. • Malahide United FC's excellent recent form continued with a comfortable away win against Newbridge on a bitterly cold evening in Kildare. Ger Coughlan's side had be considered as genuine title contenders following a run of six matches without a loss. Goals from Gareth Craven and Glen Daly were enough to see off the determined challenge of Newbridge. • Emily Whelan capped off a brilliant 2019 when she was named So Hotels Women's National League Young Player of the Year. Emily actually returned home with two trophies as she was also named alongside Rianna Jarrett in the two-strong forward line in the Women's National League Team of the Season. In her first full season as part of the Shelbourne senior team, the Balbriggan native scored a stunning winning goal in the Women's National League Cup Final victory over Wexford Youths, while she has become a regular in the senior international side. • Ireland boxing captain Niamh Fay made a winning return to the ring on away soil when picking up an impressive victory over Savannah Stubley of England in Birmingham. She seemed to relish the honour of being made captain of the Irish team and the fight was still in the second round when the referee had to stop the contest. • Mukhtar Ahmed secured victory for Portrane with two second-half goals against Bray in hockey's Leinster League. The Donabate side had been fine form, reaching the semi-finals of the Neville Cup as well as putting five past Weston without reply in the league, and this latest victory was their fourth of the season, to go along with a draw and two losses. • A combination of an excellent come-from-behind away win for Ashbourne against improving Suttonians and a surprise defeat for Dundalk stretched the Meath side's lead at the top of the Leinster League to nine points with just five rounds remaining. Ashbourne themselves trailed 17-12 at one stage, but fought back and eventually prevailed 22-17. • Rush Athletic produced a superb performance as they convincingly saw off Dublin Celtic to move into the fifth round of the FAI Junior Cup. They continued to enjoy a magnificent debut season in the LSL Major Sunday, topping the table, and a double from Barry McAllister and a goal from Dylan Kelly gave the home side a 3-0 half-time lead. Rush continued to dominate in the second half and Brian Gillen and Liam Mulcahy both scored to seal an impressive 5-1 victory. • Hockey club Dublin North's recent resurgence continued as they chalked up their third win in four games to continue their climb up the table. It finished 4-2 against Bray, with the goals coming from Paddy Gahan, Shane Dempsey, Michael Gahan and Eamonn Bane. Meanwhile, Portrane strengthened their grip on third spot thanks to a hard-fought win over Avoca. Chris Neville and Stephen Rogan helped Portrane to a 2-1 interval lead and the visitors held on to record a crucial victory. • Ashbourne RFC's quest for a remarkable four-in-a-row of All-ireland Junior Cup triumphs were shattered at the semi-final stage when they were narrowly defeated by Kilfeacle in Tipperary. The Meath men trailed 21-3 at the break, and although tries from Gavin Kennedy and Simon Deevy gave them a glimmer of hope Kilfeacle then replied with two penalties to seal the deal. • Skerries Town FC produced a brilliant performance on the road to end their year in style as they out-fought Leixlip to claim all three points. This was their fourth win from their last five games. Meanwhile, Rush Athletic powered into the last 32 of the FAI Junior Cup thanks to a fine 4-1 victory over Limerick side Rathkeale. The Fingal side had too much in their arsenal for their Munster opponents and will next face Ballinasloe Town for a place in the last 16. Fingal Independent 
