sport football
{  
    February 11 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/brothers-in-arms-26284695.html }
AND so the momentous day has dawned. The French arrive in Croke Park, at last ending the longest countdown in Irish sport. To some it marks the passing of Gaelic civilisation as we have known it, to others the longed-for revolution. What is certain is that the visitors will be warmly welcomed by the Jones's Road crew, the game will be spectacular, the great stadium will survive the exotic invasion, the sun will rise as usual tomorrow - and the familiar and well-loved rhythms of the GAA season will continue entirely unruffled. Nor should we be astonished at the rolling out of the red carpet for Eddie O'Sullivan's and Bernard Laporte's teams. After all, in the early days of both codes, Gaelic football and rugby were virtual siblings, two volumes of the one book. The relationship between the two sports has remained close, if a little complex, but right now the GAA and the IRFU are on excellent terms. In fact, the dogs on Dorset Street know - and are not surprised - that the alliance between Croke Park and Lansdowne Road is much more comfortable than the tense connection with Merrion Square. Then again, the historic affiliation between Gaelic and rugby is well documented. For starters, the GAA's founder, Michael Cusack, actually played rugby 10 years before he sat down in Hayes' Hotel to navigate the way forward for Gaelic games. Cusack was studying in Blackrock College at the time when he took charge of the sport that would later become known as rugby. He formed an Academy XV that enjoyed much success in Dublin rugby circles, and he himself was one of the team's best forwards. But what's remarkable - and still rings a bell to this day - is that Cusack became disenchanted at the game's growing professionalism and soon he was dedicating all his energies to putting Gaelic games on an organised footing. Cusack may have been the first GAA man to embrace both codes, but he certainly wasn't the last. "Well put it like this," laughs former Ireland rugby captain Mick Galwey, "I didn't feel too bad leaving Gaelic football to play rugby with Shannon when I heard that the founder of the GAA had done the same years before me." At just 19, Galwey won an All-Ireland senior medal with Kerry in 1985 before switching codes, earning 41 Ireland and 130 Munster caps and touring New Zealand with the Lions. Galwey made the transition to rugby look effortless, even if it wasn't. While there has long been mutual respect, you see, Gaelic and rugby have sometimes jostled for elbow room. When Moss Keane was a lad growing up hard by the village of Currow, a few fields from the Galwey homestead, he listened to hair-raising tales of the ancient game of cad, a wild cross between rugby and football in which the action ranged across whole townlands and entailed passing, tackling, carrying and spontaneous outbreaks of all-in wrestling. There is a fascinating yarn that William Webb Ellis, credited with inventing the game of rugby, actually picked up on cad from spending time with his soldier father in Tipperary, before bringing the ideals of the game back to England. When Gaelic football was eventually codified, it was described as cad in an enclosed space. In his book Gaelic Football, journalist PD Meighan noted one interesting description of cad: "Masses of men driving into each other while the fleeter of foot waited on the outskirts." Sound familiar? It should do; those embryonic manifestations of Gaelic football had the fieldprint of rugby all over them. 'Johnny Brosnan told me I might make a decent enough player, but I would never be a Kerry senior, I was too big for it'  Moss Keane With the GAA forbidding its members to play 'foreign' sports until the abolition of The Ban in 1971, rugby played second fiddle in traditional GAA heartlands. That's why the likes of Moss Keane first opted for Gaelic, though he was more physically suited to the oval ball. In his highly entertaining book Rucks, Mauls and Gaelic Football Keane recalls the advice offered by an old friend, Johnny Brosnan: "Johnny told me I might make a decent enough player, but I would never be a Kerry senior, I was too big for it. I knew he was right. There were times when I was in tight situations when I felt like a man trying to turn an articulated lorry in a bathroom. He said that rugby might be an option." As a young lad on UCC Sigerson Cup teams, Keane had made an impression almost as big as his giant frame, which prompted a call-up to the Kerry junior team in 1969. They made the All-Ireland final that year and Moss got a new suit for the occasion, but the snazzy threads couldn't prevent them losing to Wicklow. The same year he earned a trial with the Kerry seniors and flattened the great Mick O'Dwyer with a clumsy tackle. "O'Dwyer was fit to kill me," Keane recalls. "And as we left the pitch at the end of the game he turned to me and said: 'You'll never make it'." Moss continued to win football honours with club and college, but was moonlighting all the time with the oval ball, in defiance of The Ban. It wasn't until 1971 that he played his first 'legal' game of rugby. He never looked back. He was drafted into the Munster and Ireland set-ups, winning 51 international caps as a lock. But even though he became a rugby icon and had many great encounters with O'Dwyer afterwards, Keane says he will always remember Micko's blunt dismissal of his GAA credentials. Keane set the trend and paved the way for other modern-day GAA players to cross the Rubicon. Rugby is full of men with inter-county experience and Ireland caps. After Keane there was Galwey, Brian Spillane, Noel Mannion, Philip Danaher and more recently Eric Miller, Tommy Bowe and Shane Horgan among others. It is no coincidence that they were mostly big, back-row forwards or powerful centres with handling skills. Danaher, another former Irish captain, says co-ordination and movement were his biggest difficulties in adjusting back to Gaelic football. Galwey readily acknowledges that his Gaelic football pedigree improved his handling and greatly enhanced his rugby prospects. "I learned a huge amount from football," says the present Shannon coach. "Now both sports learn a lot from each other. Mickey Ned O'Sullivan (current Limerick manager) was over with the Springboks recently showing them how to catch properly. The thing I learned from GAA was never to wait for the ball, to always attack it. And I think Gaelic football skills are particularly applicable to rugby on the restart, where it's vital to catch and protect the ball well." One of Galwey's protégés at Shannon, winger Stephen Kelly, is following his mentor's path. After switching from football last year, the lightning-fast Kelly is Shannon's top try scorer and played with Munster A two weeks ago. A step up to the first-team squad is possible. Kelly is perhaps thriving on rugby's specialised preparation, which, unlike the GAA's traditional group training, takes into account the player's age, weight, height and body fat. Even here, of course, progressive football managers are borrowing from rugby. Still, with players like Kelly and Munster's Tomás O'Leary, who won an All-Ireland minor hurling medal with Cork in 2001, taking leave of their GAA careers, many Gaels are wary of rugby's growing influence in areas where they once had first call on players. But IRFU and Munster development officer John Lacey says his organisation has no intention of poaching GAA players. "We look after our own patch," he says. "We're not out to take players from any other sport; we're not robbing people. It's just that sometimes we're all after the same player." Donnacha Ryan is one example of a young man in demand. A promising hurler with Nenagh, he chose rugby because the professional aspect appealed to him. He has since earned a contract with Munster and is tipped for the top. Lacey sees both sides of the coin. The first AIL player to score 50 tries, he is steeped in rugby, while his brother Brian simultaneously carved out an All-Star football career with Kildare. "The thing is that we're just getting in to coach in places now that are traditional GAA areas," Lacey says. "When Alan Quinlan and I were in school at Abbey CBS there was no rugby, but it's flying there now. In the other local schools, there are three teams in St Ailbe's while St Flannan's, a major hurling stronghold, now has a brilliant U15 rugby team." Here and there players will switch codes, but at present the GAA is enjoying the most successful spell in its history in terms of profile, attendances, participation and infrastructure. Rugby is thriving too; Connacht has 103 national schools playing in rugby competitions, with 3,740 children involved who traditionally would have played only GAA. In Munster, the number of young rugby participants has simply mushroomed from 7,000 to 18,000. The message is clear: the GAA is thriving, but is no longer sacrosanct among youngsters. Danaher, a 28-cap international and former Limerick senior footballer, says the GAA should not be unduly worried. "I combined rugby and football for a long time when I was in and out of the Irish squad - and I was better than most at being in and out," he laughs. "Given the fact we're a small nation there's bound to be a crossover. There are lots of guys on the Irish team with a huge interest in GAA. You see Darce (Gordon D'Arcy) following Wexford and Rog (Ronan O'Gara) following Cork, and most of the Irish boys would have an intimate knowledge of GAA. The GAA should be relaxed about the buoyancy of the oval ball "I really think the GAA are the big winners today. I recognise what they have done for this country, and the quality of their stadia around the country is mind-boggling. Rugby simply has not matched those standards, but we're magnanimous about it. People say the GAA will be well rewarded with lots of rent, but that's begrudging, they took a gamble and I say fair play to them." Considering the GAA have played a huge role in creating the country's modern Ireland, they should be relaxed about the buoyancy of the oval ball. "Sure the two games are closer than ever," adds Galwey. "There are certainly a lot of comparisons between them now; I think William Webb Ellis must have been at a few GAA games all those years ago." Lacey points out that IRFU fitness coaches are getting involved training GAA teams. "Football is now about power, speed and upper-body strength; they are using rucking pads to train like we do," he says. "It's gas, I've got phone calls from people looking to buy those pads off us and I ask where they are from. There's a stutter and a stammer on the other end of the line and it's obvious they're from a GAA club, but don't want to admit it. But there's no need to hide it; there's no problem with sports taking ideas from each other. We're all Irish at the end of the day." Despite the obvious synergy between the codes, there are some cultural differences that will persist. Full-time professionalism, for instance, is hard to envisage in a GAA context. The professional layer in rugby has brought success to country and provinces, but harmed the clubs. Danaher, who played for Limerick against Kerry in the 1992 Munster senior football final, feels structures of a full-time game need to be spot on. "In rugby union we have about 35 players on national contracts and another 100 on provincial contracts," he says. "The national-provincial structure is easy to manage, but the downside is that many established clubs are struggling to keep going, like Sunday's Well, Old Wesley and Wanderers. The same thing could happen with the GAA who have players from 32 counties involved; that's a tricky structure to design." That's a debate for another day. Today's focus is on another page of history for the GAA. Galwey, Danaher and Lacey are itching for kick-off. "It was an honour for me to play there as a GAA man and it will be an honour for the Irish lads to play rugby there," Galwey says. "It will be good for Irish people in general. It shows how far we've come as a country." Danaher agrees there will be plenty of emotion: "There will be, but France won't care at all, they're here to win a game." As for Lacey, well, he's been in Croker more times than he's crossed the try line for Shannon. "I remember the summer of 1998, I didn't miss a championship match while Brian was playing with Kildare. We won the AIL League in Shannon that summer and Brian came very close to winning the All-Ireland. It would have been a lovely family double. We'll all be there again today. You have to say fair play to the GAA for building a stadium like that." And that's the general vibe today. Rugby and the GAA may have had their difficulties in the past and there may well be turf wars ahead. But today's events should reinforce an enduring mutual respect. 
