sport football
{  
    August 26 2016 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/around-the-districts-austin-stacks-st-pats-34989916.html }
Austin Stacks Strictly Come Dancing at the Festival Dome this Saturday night (27th Aug). Tickets now on sale. Ticket News the hottest tickets in town are on sale now Tickets are available from Garvey's SuperValu, Kevin Barry's shop, Rock Street, O'Connell's Pharmacy, St Brendan's park and the clubhouse at Connolly Park. Get your tickets early to avoid disappointment. Senior Football Austin Stacks 2-19; John Mitchels 1-6. Officially, according to the meteorology definition of the seasons, it's still summer till the end of this month, but in Austin Stack Park on last Saturday evening (20th Aug) it felt more like winter. A gale force wind and driving rain made conditions difficult for this Town League Final but it didn't stop our lads from registering their biggest win since May 2015 (see Footnote below), their highest score of the year, so far, and capturing the John Kissane Memorial Cup for the third season in a row. We played with the aid of that howling gale in the first half and led by 13 points to one at half time. Our points scoring was absolutely superb, all but two of them from play, and many coming from long distance. Also, most of the scores came from patient build-ups from our full back line. David Mannix (4 two from frees), Jack Morgan (2), Fiachna Mangan (2), Darragh O'Brien (2), Shane O'Callaghan (2) and one from Shane Guthrie were our first half scorers. It was obvious that Mitchels, now playing with the aid of the elements, would come more into the game in the second period. But we matched them stride for stride and added a further 2-6 in this half to 1-5 for the opposition. David Mannix with three (two from frees), and one each from David O'Sullivan, Pa McCarthy and Wayne Guthrie were our point scorers, with our two goals coming in the closing five minutes - a blaster from an acute angle by David O'Sullivan and the second tucked away beautifully by Jack Morgan. Team Captain, Wayne Guthrie, in the presence of the Town Board Chairman, Pat McAuliffe, was presented with the Cup by Seán Kissane in memory of his late father, John. It was good of Wayne, in his speech, to urge his fellow players to stay off the booze during the festival. Afterwards however some malicious people said that he himself was the first to be seen walking into the Greyhound Bar after the match, but we can confirm that his only purpose was to relay the result of the game to Aidan O'Connor (no lads, he couldn't have sent a text as he had mislaid his phone). Team: Darragh O'Brien, Ronan Shanahan, Conor Jordan, Seán Ryan, Pa McCarthy (0-1), Fearghal Mac Namara, Jack Morgan (1-2), Wayne Guthrie (Capt) (0-1), Shane Guthrie (0-1), Fiachna Mangan (0-2), Shane O'Callaghan (0-2), Jack O'Shea, David Mannix (0-7 four frees), David O'Sullivan (1-1), Darragh O'Brien (0-2). Sub used: Daniel Bohan (42m), Ciarán O'Connell (54m), Michael Collins (54m), Denis O'Neill (57m), Barry Walsh (57m), Seán Dukes (58m). Footnote: The last time our winning margin was higher was some 36 games ago, the postponed round one Co. League game played in Connolly Park on May 2, 2015. The winning margin that day, against Waterville, was 20 points (3-15 to 0-4). Good luck to Ferdia O'Brien and Kieran Donaghy and their Kerry colleagues as they take on Kildare and Dublin in their respective all-Ireland semi-finals in Croke Park on next Sunday (28th Aug). And even though they just came up short to Mayo last Sunday let us congratulate Liam Kearns and his Tipperary footballing stars on a brilliant season, taking them to where no one has taken them in the last 81 years. Senior Hurling Austin Stacks 3-13 Kenmare 0-8. Our Hurlers won the first silverware of the season with a brilliant display against a determined Kenmare side at a damp Connolly Park on last Wednesday evening (17th Aug). While it stayed dry during the game, the earlier afternoon drizzle really didn't affect the play as we thought it might. Two early points from Colm Ó Giollagáin and one from Kerry Minor Hurler, Ciarán Breen saw us ahead by 0-3 to 0-1 after nine minutes. But a lay-off of 47 days since our last competitive outing made us look a little ring-rusty in the opening quarter and Kenmare, with five unanswered points, led by 0-6 to 0-3 after 20 minutes. However, once we got into the rhythm of things we began to dominate and in the closing 10 minutes of the half we outscored the visitors by 1-4 to 0-1, which left us a goal ahead at the break (1-7 to 0-7). Three points from Colm (two from frees one from a massive 80 meters) and a lovely effort from an acute angle by Ciarán Breen after a perfect pass from Johnny Downey, were our point scorers. Our goal came from a Paul Daly pass which found Ronan Gilsenan and Pip rounded his man beautifully to slash to the net. We continued our dominance in the second half, holding the opposition to just one more point while adding a further 2-6 to our first half total. Kenmare, on another day, could have breached our defence on at least four occasions. But Michael O'Leary was outstanding in goals, with his front men coming to the rescue also on a number of occasions, especially Kevin O'Leary, Peter O'Regan and Andrew Morrissey, saving certain goals. Our two second half goals came from Colm Ó Giollagáin (who also added two more points from play) and Seán Hartnett with our other four points also coming from Kieran McCaughley, Ciarán Breen, Robert Byrne and from a last minute 65 by Paul Daly. Andrew Foley, Ian Moynihan and Killian O'Riordan also performed well throughout and it was also good to see both Eddie Barry and Seán King making their first appearances of the season. After the game team captain Andrew Foley was presented with South Kerry SH League Cup. As well as being the South Kerry SH League Final the game also doubled up as the South Kerry SH Championship semi-final. Team; Michael O'Leary, Kevin O'Leary, Peter O'Regan, Eddie Barry, Ian Moynihan, Paul Daly (0-1 65), Andrew Morrissey, Ciarán Breen (0-3), Robert Byrne (0-1), Andrew Foley (Capt), Killian O'Riordan, Johnny Downey, Ronan Gilsenan (1-0), Seán Hartnett (1-0), Colm Ó Giollagáin (1-7 two frees). Subs used: Kieran McCaughley (20m) (0-1), James Smullen (55m), Seán King (55m), Tadhg Meehan (57m). So now our Hurlers are about to contest three more finals in the space of the next few weeks the South Kerry SH Championship Final, the South Kerry JH Championship Final (confined to our second 15 players) and finally the Co. League (Div 3) Final. As we write no dates have been fixed for these games. Keep in touch with Club Website for updates. Footnote: We all know the exceptional contributions made by players in every club throughout the country. An example of this was witnessed in Connolly Park on last evening by one of the great veterans of Kenmare Hurling, Gerald O'Sullivan-Morgan. Gerald played the full 60 minutes in this game nothing unusual about that - except for the fact that, earlier in the day, he severely injured his right arm in an accident on his family farm, but still came up to Tralee to help out his club in a District Final. B Football We are due to travel to Killarney on this Thursday evening (25th Aug) to play Dr Crokes at Lewis Road on the semi-final of this season's Co. Championship (The Molyneaux Cup). We were due to play Na Gaeil on Monday evening (22nd Aug) in the semi-final of the Town League. Check Website for details. We also await a date for our postponed round 10 Co. League game, away to Ballyduff. Minor Football Also on Thursday evening (25th Aug) our Minors are due to play Kerins O'Rahillys in the fourth and final round of the Central League. To date we have had wins in our previous three games - against Dingle (1-14 to 1-9), Laune Rangers (3-12 to 0-9) and Na Gaeil (a walk-over). THE CROKE PARK HALL OF FAME as many will remember, was originally initiated in February 2013 with the induction of a group 16 Footballers and 16 Hurlers. The 16 Footballers included six from Kerry Dan O'Keeffe, Joe Keohane, Seán Murphy, Mick O'Connell, Pat Spillane and, of course, our own Mikey Sheehy. Since then five more have been added to the list, including two from Kerry Mick O'Dwyer in April 2014and the latest, last Thursday (18th Aug), our own John O'Keeffe. Congratulations, Johnno. CONGRATULATIONS: to two former Club Footballers who got married recently. Rickey Moloney married Catherine Walsh and Billy Dennehy (currently, along with his brother Darren, playing League of Ireland Football with St Patrick's Athletic) tied the knot with Rose O'Sullivan last week. Also last week current Club Hurler, Peter Bella Doyle married Carmel Moynihan. We wish every health and happiness to all three couples. HAPPY BIRTHDAY: to current Co. Board Delegate, Eddie Barrett, who celebrated a significant birthday last weekend. CLUBHOUSE: As always the clubhouse is available for all types of Parties. For Bookings, phone Maurice McNamara at 086 3747 642. CARDS: The 45 Card Sessions will continue in the clubhouse on every Monday and Thursday nights, commencing at 9.30 p.m. each night. LOTTO: Last week's (August 15) jackpot, worth €5,000, was not won. The numbers drawn were 3, 6, 12 and 29. The €20 Winners were: Brian Collins, c/o Martin Collins; Pat Cleary, c/o the club; Fr Seán Hannafin, c/o Club Rockies; Fionn O'Regan, c/o Brendan O'Regan; and Kitty Healy, c/o Richard Healy. SYMPATHY: Sincere sympathy is offered to the families of the following who died recently Jed Myers, Clonmore Terrace, Ballymullen; Anne Moriarty (née Crowley), The Kerries and late of Bandon; and Sr. Mary Jo (Alban) Kenny OP, Dominican Sisters, Our Lady of Fatima Convent, Oakpark and late of Ballina. Austin Stacks Juveniles  PEIL FAOI 6/8/10: More brilliant football on Sunday at 11 a.m. in Caherslee and even better football on Thursday. The Bracker Regan Cup has started for under-eights so make sure you are there for your team. We travelled to Miltown with the under-10s on Sunday and had a great days football with two teams in action. PEIL FAOI 12: Our under-12s (Divisions 1A and 1B) were away to Ardfert on Tuesday last. Next game we travel to Laune Rangers on September 11. CORN AN RÓIS - CHAMPIONS Captain Ben Quilter raised the Rose Cup aloft following an epic day at rain drenched Killeen as our under-13s fought off all comers to claim the prize. Following two victories in the group stages over Ballymac and St Paul's Mungret we qualified to meet Ardfert in the semi-finals. This was where we showed our true metal with a 3-9 to 0-5 victory to set us up for a final again the much fancied Laune Rangers.In the final playing with the wind in the first half we conceded an early goal but we responded well with four unanswered points to lead slenderly by one at the break. A tremendous second half that saw up score four points to the Killorglin men's two saw us run out two point winners. Well done to Dennis Sayers, Armin Heinrich, Tom Foley, Joe Smith and all the squad for a memorable victory. Squad-Ben Quilter, Kevin Barry, Joey Nagle, Cian Dillane, Ruairi OConnell, Josh Lynch, Armin Heinrich, Jordan Kissane, Evan Foley, Conor Horan, Donnacha Sayers, James Charles, Shane Bastible, Michael, Caplin Carter-OFlynn, Dylan Hurley, Joe Reidy, Gavin Slattery, Donnacha Fox, Seán Collins, Johnny Feely, Enda Cahill. CHAMPIONS - PEIL FAOI 14: AS 3-11 An Ghaeltacht 3-10 We travelled to Castlegregory on a blustery Monday evening (August 8 )last. We lined out for our third final of the season, this time our opponents were An Ghaeltacht. Having lost the toss we played against a very strong breeze in the first half. We got off to a dream start with a goal which was well finished by Shane Bastible. Further points from Shane, Mervyn Shalemba and James Fernane gave us a lead of 1-4 to 0-2 after 10 minutes. Incredibly this was to be our last score of the half. Our defence has to take huge credit for holding An Ghaeltacht to 1-3 for the remainder of the half. An Ghaeltacht led 1-5 to 1-4 at half time. An Ghaeltacht continued the second half with a sweeper, making scores hard to come by. Ten minutes in the second half, An Ghaeltacht had extended their lead with a fortuitous goal and two points. Cian Purcell kicked two frees with our third point of the half coming from Armin Heinrich to keep us in touch. We eventually regained the lead in the 43rd minute with a brilliant goal from Mervyn after making a 50 metre run. We extended our lead to four points on the 52nd minute with Shane taking a quick free which Jordan Kissane fisted to the net. We looked home and hosed till the 56th minute when bizarrely An Ghaeltacht scored another fortuitous goal which was followed by a point which led the sides tied with 60 minutes played. Extra time looked inevitable but on the 62nd minute Shane was fouled 30 metres from goal. Cian played the captains part kicking the winning score. An Ghaeltacht pressed for an equalizer but savage defending meant we won the ball back and Owen Healy's clearance was met with the sound of the final whistle which led to scenes of great joy for the players and large Stacks support alike. This has been the third final in which the lads have won this year. We now prepare for the Town League. Team: Ben Quilter, Ruairí O''Connell, Luke Chester, Joey Nagle, Peter Kearns, Adam Curran, Jordan Kissane (1-0), Armin Heinrich (0-1), Mervyn Shalemba (1-1), Conor Horan, Owen Healy, Liam Tobin (Daniel Breen), James Fernane (0-1), Shane Bastible (1-3), Cian Purcell (0-5), Greg Scanlon, Connor Kavanagh, Ciarán Kelliher, Matthew Browne, Leon Gallagher, Evan Foley, Joe Reidy, Johnny Feeley. PEIL FAOI 16A: Nice victory v Legion...3-12 to 2-12...in Páirc na mBan Rialta on 10th. We have qualified (in first position) for the semi-final of the county league following four wins and a loss in the group stages. Mighty. There will now be a four-way play-off for second/3rd/4th positions and, so, we eagerly await our semi-final opponents. Up the Rock. PEIL FAOI 16: We have qualified for the semi-final of the County League where we will play Scart/Cordal probably on August 31. Under-16 Division eight County League semi-final Currow 1-8 Austin Stacks 1-9. Stacks second string qualified for the Division eight County Final following a great win in rain drenched Currow on Friday night. Having defeated the same side the previous week our side was bolstered with the return of Adam Curran and Conor Myers and despite a slow start we led from start to finish for a memorable victory. The victory was more remarkable as we lost both Myers and speed king Leon Shalamba early on. This forced us to put Craig Teahan into the forwards and he netted our only goal on 17 minutes to give us a 1-4 to 5pt lead at the break. Our other scores came from Myers, David Couchman and captain Garry Clifford (2). The second half was all one way traffic with David Burke, Danny Drághici, Christopher Nolan, Luke Chester and Mervyn Shalamba impenetrable at the back. David Oba was breaking kick out length records as he found Mounthawk midfield pairing Jack McGrath and Padraic Linnane time and time again and with Jordan OShea, Charlie Curran and Cian Purcell combining well up front the Rock were well in the ascendency. Five unanswered points from Couchman, the impressive Andrew Breen and Man of the Match Garry Clifford put us into a five point lead. However Currow responded late on with 1-1 but narrow the margin to one but our defence stood firm to book their place in the final. Team-David Oba, Danny Drághici, David Burke, Craig Teahan, Christopher Nolan, Leon Shalamba, Tom OFarrell, Jack McGrath, Padraic Linnane, Conor Myers, David Couchman, Andrew Breen, Charlie Curran, Jordan OShea, Mervyn Shalamba, Cian Purcell, Adam Curran, Luke Chester. We now play St Michael's/Foilmore/Valentia in the final on Wednesday. Kerry Good wishes to our minor and senior footballers in their preparations for their Croke Park engagements. Austin Stacks Ladies Girls Academy: Under-six, under-eight and under-10 girls please note there will be no football training this Sunday due to the all-Ireland semi-final. Under-12 Girls: Our Co. League semi-final V Inbhear Scéine Gaels is now most likely to be played in Connolly Park on September 1 Under-13 Girls: The annual Sandra Keane Tournament took place last Saturday at John Mitchels GAA Club and our girls did brilliantly. We had wins over Corcha Dhuibhne and Legion among others before defeating Na Gaeil in the semi-final to book our place in the Cup Final where we just came up short against a very good Southern Gaels side. Well done to all the girls particularly some of our under-12 girls who made the big step up to the bigger pitch and goals for this tournament. Thanks to the tournament organisers for a brilliantly run tournament and to all the parents who supported the girls. Special word of thanks to Darragh Long who was our excellent team manager on the day. Under-14 Girls we will play a challenge game V Corcha Dhuibhne at home this Friday night at 6.30 p.m. Under-16 Girls: We played our final Co. League game V Listowel last Thursday evening in Connolly Park FT Austin Stacks 8-9 Listowel 2-7. That completes our 2016 Co League action - we finished mid table with three wins and three losses. We now set our sights on the North Kerry League. Training continues this Wednesday from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. Senior Ladies: We are due to play Causeway in our final RD7 Co. League game at midday this Sunday in Connolly Park. Our Junior 'A' Championship game V Kilcummin now looks likely to be played on September 9. Kerry - Hard luck to Laura and the Kerry Senior team who bowed out of this year's championship following their defeat by Monaghan in Birr last Saturday. We send our best wishes to Kieran and Ferdia and both Kerry teams this Sunday in Croke Park. BALLYMACELLIGOTT LOTTO: The lotto was held in Ballygarry House on Monday, August 15, for a jackpot of €4,200.The numbers drawn were 1, 14, 24, 28.There was no winner. Lucky Dips 1.James O'Hara c/o Tom Leen 2.Patrick Reidy Ballydwyer 3.Denis McMahon Clogher 4.James Lynch c/o Paula Silles 5.Therese Williams c/o Paula Silles The lotto now stands at €4,300 and can be played online at ballymacgaa.com. Seniors Our Senior Team made a swift return to Division three football with a superb victory over Na Gaeil on Saturday evening last. Ballymac were missing a few regulars and Na Gaeil were unbeaten in County Competitions in 2016 and entered the game as favourites. It was Ballymac who started the stronger and led by 1-5 to 0-1 after 20 minutes Vinny Horan (1-1) TJ Casey (0-2) and Aidan Breen (0-2) were our scorers. The visitors then hit four points in succession before Vinny Horan pointed to leave the half time score Ballymac 1-6 Na Gaeil 0-5.Horan opened the scoring in the second half with a point but then with the aid of the breeze Na Gaeil hit a purple patch and scored six points to a sole Aidan Breen point which saw the sides level with 10 minutes remaining.  With the town side dominating at this stage they seemed set for victory however our lads showed great character and a never say die attitude and fought for every ball as if their lives depended on it. Na Gaeils' cause was not helped when they were reduced to 14 men.  Two pointed frees by Aidan Breen in the time remaining ensured a thoroughly deserved victory.On the night Ballymac had 17 heroes and all played their part in the win, mention must also made of the management team led by Paud O'Donoghue and his selectors Tom O'Shea, Dennis O'Connor and Seán Brosnan who had the team firing on all cylinders for the game. Best wishes to Michael Sweeney who suffered a hand injury during the game. TEAM P Laide, L Dunne, C Reynolds, M Sweeney, D Long, L Sweeney, D Madden, M Herlihy, A Breen, P McCarthy, E Reidy, W Casey, M O'Brien, TJ Casey, V Horan. Subs: G Horan, S Bermingham. ALL IRELAND SEMI FINALS: Good luck to both Kerry Senior and minor teams who travel to Croke Park on Sunday next for their respective semi-finals.In particular we wish our two Club Minors Michael Reidy and Tomas O'Connor all the best as they are part of the Kerry Minor panel who take on Kildare in the curtain raiser. FAOI 16: Ballymac played Na Gaeil on Wednesday last in the semi-final of Division four County League in Kileen.  When these teams met earlier in the competition Na Gaeil emerged victorious by a large margin. The game started even enough with both sides scoring early from frees, Ballymac's scores coming from Daire Keane (2) and David Rogers (2) Two goals from Na Gaeil pushed them into a six-point lead with half time approaching but Ballymac rallied and two more points from Daire Keane and David Rogers reduced the half time deficit to four points.  Half time score Na Gaeil 2.4 Ballymac 0.6 Na Gaeil dominated the second half and although Ballymac tried hard they could not get the better of a more physical Na Gaeil. The home team registered 1.5 in the first fifteen minutes to Ballymac's one point. Josh O'Keeffe's goal from a penalty and a point from a free from David Rogers were Ballymac's remaining scores in the second half.  Na Gaeil went on to score two more points leaving the final score at Na Gaeil 3.11 to Ballymac 1.9 BALLYMAC TEAM ; Eoin Culloty, Cian Godley, Cathal Dunne, Diarmuid Lynch, Liam O'Brien, Tadgh Brick, Dara Chawke, James McDonald, Josh O'Keeffe, Cillian Gallagher, David Rogers, Dylan Dunne Moriarty, Dara Broderick, Barry Lyons, Daire Keane. Subs Used: Brian Cassidy, Daire Lynch, Aiden O'Brien, Jonathan Lowe ROSE CUP Under-13 boys played there first match against Austin Stacks. The game was a fast game with a lot of near misses by us. Austin Stacks came out of the game with the win. Great credit has to be given to the Ballymac boys for brushing themselves off and winning their next couple of group games against St Paul's and Kilcummin to put them into a semifinal against Legion.  This was a close game with Ballymac - against the wind - taking the lead in the first half, They started well in the second but Legion came back at them and needed a goal to draw it but the lads held strong to guarantee a place in the final against Milltown-Castlemaine. In the final we started against the wind and had a great first half. Milltown-Castlemaine's goalie kept them in it with some fine saves. We led going into the second half and finished strong, pulling away to win the game. Great celebrations ensued after the final whistle.  Well done to players, mentors and all who supported them. Captain Darragh Sweeney accepted the shield to great celebrations. Well done, all... Panel: Bryan Godley, Seán Horan, Cathal Culloty, Ryan McHugh, Dylan Barry O'Connell, Adam Walker, Pádraig O'Sullivan, Adam Joy, James Bailey, Darragh Sweeney (C), Adam O'Keefe, Thomas O'Connor, Liam O'Connor, Denis Brosnan, Adam Kelly, Maurice O'Connell, Andy Rodgers, James Kenny, Donal Daly, Luke O'Connell, Eoin Creedon Mentors: Liam Sweeney, Liam Joy, Fintan Kelly, James Godley FAOI 12 Our under-12 Blue team got their Central Region campaign off to a winning start with a good victory over Austin Stacks. At half time they led on a scoreline of four - nine to 0 - 3. They continued their dominance in the second half to run out winners on a scoreline of five - 17 to 1-06. The Gold teams game with Stacks was a much closer affair as there was very little between the sides however, at the final whistle it was our boys who were celebrating following their five - 15 to five - 11 victory. FAOI 10 We entered two teams into the annual Miltown-Castlemaine blitz. Our under-10 boys won their three group games with saw them qualify for a semi-final against the host club. Throughout the game there was very little between the teams however, it was the Miltown side who prevailed by a single point to qualify for the final which they duly won. Our U nine boys although a year younger than most of the teams they came up against they gave a couple of great displays and qualified for a semi-final against Laune Rangers in their section. Like the older boys only a point denied them a place in the final. CAILINI FAOI 13: On Saturday last the club's under-13 girls competed in the annual Sandra Keane Blitz in the John Mitchels complex in Tralee. 16 teams competed on the day with teams divided into four groups of 4. Our girls were in a group with the hosts John Mitchels, Dr Crokes and Rathmore.  Our first group game against was against the hosts, and the girls got off to a great start, winning nine points to two. All the girls took the game to Mitchels from the beginning, playing against a strong breeze, to lead four points to no score at half time with Sinéad McKeown (2), Cora Savage and Aylssa Leen getting the scores. With the aid of the breeze in the second half the girls dominated notching five more points, three from the boot of Cora Savage from midfield and two from Kate O'Connor at full forward.  This result gave the girls great confidence heading into their second game against Rathmore and again playing against the breeze in the first half our backs especially Roisin Long, Sophie O'Donoghue, Emily O'Brien and Cathy Palmer kept a very dangerous Rathmore forward line in check eventhough they racked up five points, no goals were conceded. In the forward line our girls made the most of their opportunities with the excellent Mary Anne Fleming accounting for two goals and a point to leave us ahead by two points at the break.  The second half was nip and tuck but we managed to keep our noses in front, with Cora Savage showing great leadership, getting on the scoreboard on three occasions with three points. Rathmore managed two points to leave the final score 2-4 to seven points. Other girls to perform well in this game were Holly Geary, Millie Dunne, Aoife Galvin and Emma Leen. Our final group game was against Dr Crokes with the girls proving too strong winning on a scoreline of 1-6 to 0-1.  Sinéad McKeown got in for an excellent goal and also chipped in with a point along with the excellent Kate O'Connor scoring three points and one from the boot of Cora Savage. Grainne Galvin in goals played with great assurance again and in the backs Ciara Palmer and Laura Dunne did their bit for the team. Up front Katie Enright was involved throughout along with Aylssa Leen and the free scoring Kate O'Connor. After winning the three group games this meant the girls were in the Cup semi-final. The ladies' football power power house in South Kerry, Southern Gaels stood in the girls way of a final place. After roughly seventy five minutes of football played by both teams at that stage both teams served up a great game. SG started off lively with a goal and a point but Cora Savage kept us in touch with two excellent frees into the wind and one from play. SG finished the first half with a point to leave the half time score 1-2 to 0-3. The second half was very tense with both teams going for the win and the girls brought the game level with two points from play from Cora Savage but SG responded with a point in the closing stages to take the lead. The girls gave everything to get the initiative back but fatigue was a factor in denying them, and with the last kick of the game the niece of Kerry legend Maurice Fitzgerald got in for a goal to give SG the win. on the score of 2-3 to 0-5. Kieran O'Connor, coach with the girls, said on behalf of the management, but how proud they were of the girls on the day. He wished to thank the parents for their cooperation on the day considering the conditions. SG went on to win the final so it goes to show the talent that our club possesses in the future for ladies' football. Well done. Cailini Faoi 10  Well done to two of our under-10 girls panel Alice Brosnan and Jill Quirke who were selected as Rose Buds at the recent Rose of Tralee Festival. It was a great experience for both girls. Handball  Congratulations to Ashley Prenderville on winning the Quarter Final of the all-Ireland ladies senior singles. Beating Pauline Gallagher (Mayo) 21-12, 21-18. Bobcats Basketball With the Basketball season around the corner the Bobcats have organised an intro coaching course in Miltown Community Centre on Saturday, September 3, from 9.30 to 5 p.m. Please contact Siobhán Creedon at 086 2269245 for further information. Sympathy  The club extends its deepest sympathy to the O'Connor Family Caherbreagh on the death of Mrs Ellen O'Connor whose great grandchildren Thomas (under-14 boys) and Orla (10/12 Girls) play with the club. John Mitchels Merchandise Please note that all club merchandise is now available for purchasing only through Henneberys Sports Shop, Ashe St, Tralee and is no longer for sale at our complex in Ballyseedy. Please also note that our club colours are - Green and Gold Jerseys, White togs and Green and Gold socks. SENIOR TEAM - Co League Round 11: Away to Kerins O'Rahilly's September 4 at 2 p.m. Tralee League Final We played Austin Stacks in a windswept pitch in Austin Stacks Park last Saturday evening. Austin Stacks won the match and are 2016 Town League Champions. Date for the diary - Strictly Come Dancing John Mitchels are delighted to announce their first ever Strictly Come Dancing Competition. This will be held in Ballygarry House Hotel on Sunday, October 30, commencing at 8 p.m. with Doors opening at 7 p.m. Twelve couples have been carefully selected and are currently in training for this momentus event under the experienced eye of Ms Laura Flaherty, Choreographer.  The winning couple will be donating their prize money to a Charity of their choice. John Mitchels club have secured the expertise of the following Judges to choose the overall winners on the night: Ms. Anne Gibson, Ms Jackie O'Mahony, Mr Tim Landers and Mr Michael Healy-Rae TD. Brian Hurley of Irish TV will act as MC for the evening. John Mitchels are launching this event in their Ballyseedy Complex on Saturday, September 3, at 7.30 p.m.  The Press are invited to come along and meet and photograph the couples. The money raised from Strictly will be used for the development of the club at Juvenile and senior level and also prize-money will be donated to a Charity chosen by the winning Dancers. Further information will be issued shortly on the sale of Tickets for the event. Senior Ladies Training continues Tuesday at 7 p.m. under-16 ladies Training continues next Tuesday at 7 p.m. under-14 ladies North Kerry League Div two John Mitchels v Na Gael at home - tbc Away v Castlegregory August 27 Bye September 3 Home v Beale Ballyduff September 10 Away v Currow September 17 Draw for Town Championship coming up Training continues on Thursdays 6.30 p.m. Under-13 ladies We played in the Sandra Keane North Kerry ladies under-13 blitz last Saturday in our own grounds. We were down a few players and weather conditions were testing during the day but our girls battled all the way through group stage where we played Ballymac Crokes and Rathmore. We played Ballyduff in the semi-final of the plate competition.  This was a tight game with the wind playing a major part and we came through a tight game to qualify for the final where we met Castlegregory. This was a very tight game with scores difficult to come by with the strong wind playing a major role. Half time we were two points down against the wind. The second half saw Mitchels dominate the game and pull it back to a draw.  With minutes to go disaster struck when a rare attack by Castlegregory ended in a goal and despite Mitchels throwing everything at Castle we couldn't breach their defence and went down in the end by a goal. The girls gave a terrific display and never gave up and were a credit to the club. Congratulations to our own Lauren Smullen won the player of the Plate Final.  The under-13s now have a Co Shield Final v Crokes coming up so this will stand to them. Panel - Paula Rogers, Lilly Collins, Elizabeth O'Connor, Taylor Rogers, Lynda O'Connor, Lauren Smullen, Sophie Reidy, Erica O'Connor, Kerry Oba, Tara Field, Katie Ross, Jessica Wharton, Molly Duggan, Molly Brosnan. Lotto: August 16 - Numbers drawn: 4, 11, 13, 23 No winner Consolation prize winners: €100 - Ciaran O'Brien c/o Paddy €25 - Caroline Keating c/o Paddy €25 - Francis Galvin c/o Paddy €25 - Sandra O'Dowd c/o Paddy €25 - Noreen Reidy c/o Bingo Next draw - August 23, jackpot €1,500 Na Gaeil Annual Cycle  Na Gaeil annual Fundraising Cycle takes place on Saturday, August 27. Starting time is 9.30 a.m. from the clubhouse in Killeen. There is an 80km route via Castleisland, Abbeyfeale and Listowel and a 40km route via Castleisland. Registration fee is €20 for adults and €10 for under-18s. All are welcome to take part in what should be a great day's fun and exercise. Fundraiser  Please donate any unwanted Clothes and Textiles (clean re-wearable clothes, paired shoes, belts, handbags, curtains, towels, bed linen, soft toys are accepted) as well as Mobile Phones and Laptops (please keep these items in a separate bag). Where possible please donate at least 3+ bags - this really does raise much needed funds for our club. Please drop items to the the complex. Bingo  Please note that the Bingo jackpot is now €800 on 48 calls. Our Bingo continues on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday nights. Bingo is a vital fundraiser for the club and all funds raised from the Bingo goes directly back into the club and all support is greatly appreciated. Follow all our Bingo news on our newly launched Facebook page. Any member who wishes to volunteer can do so by giving their details to any club officer. Sunday Morning Centre of Excellence  Juvenile training for 2016 continues on Sunday next in John Mitchels Centre of Excellence, Camp, Ballyseedy. Under-six BOYS AND GIRLS Training continues every Sunday 10.30 a.m. to midday. Under-eight BOYS: Unfortunately we couldn't do much training this week due to the bad weather but next week promises to be be better as we have a home game against Laune Rangers on Thursday, August 25. Players to meet at club at 6.15 p.m. throw in 6.30 p.m. Please don't forget gum shields also no training on Wednesday 25th of August. Under-eight and under-10 LADIES: Training continues every Sunday 10.30 a.m. to midday. Under-10 BOYS: We had a good session last Sunday with Connor, Paddy, Luke, Robert and Jack working hard and doing some great high fielding. Mark. Darragh, Joe, Andrew and Ted put in a tough shift and flew over the hurdles with great ease. David, Ben and Seán Og played hard and skilfully in the game at the end, well done to all. We are on again on Wednesday at 6.30 to 7.30 with our 'Fun Wednesday' and next Sunday again. John Mitchels Sports Complex  Our Sports Complex at Camp Ballyseedy is available for bookings on the Sports Hall and All Weather pitch. The complex is also open for children's parties. Further information contact the club reception at 066 7197070. Sympathy To the family of John D Moriarty, Curraheen, Tralee To the family of Jed (John) Myers, Clonmore Terrace, Ballymullen, Tralee To the family of Michael O'Shea, Curraduff, Camp To the family of Anne Moriarty, (née Crowley), The Kerries, Tralee and formerly of Crossmahon, Bandon, Co Cork To the Dominican Community, Our Lady of Fatima Convent, on the death of Sr Mary Jo (Alban) Kenny OP and formerly of Ballina, Co Mayo May they Rest in Peace KERINS O'RAHILLYS Senior Football: All senior football is on a break this week as the county minor and senior teams head to Croke Park to play their respective semi-finals against Kildare and Dublin. We wish both teams the best of luck. Juvenile News Saturday Morning Football for under-six to under-10s will be back this Saturday morning at 11 a.m. in Healy Park Ballyrickard. Under-eight and 10s are back to Thursday evening training in Healy Park Ballyrickard at 6 p.m. Kerins O'Rahillys Summer Camp Held recently in Healy Park Ballyrickard our summer Camp was a huge success. The camp was free to all club members and just €20 to non-members. Up to 140 children from the ages of five to 13 enjoyed a week of expert coaching and fun and even had some of their games refereed by none other than Barry John Keane. Well done to all involved. We are sure the children who attended will be talking about it for a while to come. Roses  Charlies Bar and Kerins O'Rahillys played host recently to the Down Rose Fainche McCormack and Washington Rose Sarah Olsen. Both girls visited the club with their escorts and their families on Friday and Saturday. They were greeted by many club members on Saturday and there was entertainment and refreshments provided by Tom and Eileen. The down Rose's father Paul who ids the PRO of St John Bosco's GAA club in Co Down made a presentation to Juvenile Chairperson Dinny O'Connor and Senior Chairperson Frank O'Connor made presentations to both Roses. Ladies News  Thanks to everyone who supported our pop up shop held at Charlies Bistro recently by donating, buying and especially volunteering. We hope you are all happy with your new bargains. We know we had fun helping you all choose your new looks. Thanks also for supporting our raffle. The draw took place and the lucky winner of the hamper was Henry Burrows. The clothes we had left over were divided between the Kerry Cancer Support Group and Adapt Women's Refuge. We also have some left for recycling. This will raise more funds. So if you want to clean out your wardrobes, hot press bag it up and drop to dressing rooms before September 21. Contact Breda 086 3161407 or Shirley 086 8713552 or any coach for information. Under-12 girls  If you have any queries about training contact Marie Nix at 087 9734923. under-14 girls are back training with Manager Jerome Linnane and mentors Mark and Ashling. Contact Jerome for information at 087 6114661 Junior Ladies are training with Manager Ken Savage along with Ann Marie O'Connor and Breda Dyland. Contact Ann Marie 087 9652848 or Breda 086 3161407 for information. Lotto The lotto takes place in Charlie's Bar every Monday. The lotto results for Monday, August 15, were 2, 6, 8 and 18. There was no jackpot winner. The next jackpot will be €3,700. There were four match-three winners. They were Michael O'Halloran, Bernie Keane, Tom O'Sullivan and Neilus Browne. The five people drawn for the December 2016 draw (4 x€250) were Nora O'Sullivan, Rory Kerins, Bernie Hayes, Helen O'Connor and Dick Spring. To play the Kerins O'Rahillys lotto, four numbers are selected from one to 28. If anybody matches the four numbers selected on the night he/she wins the jackpot. Match-three numbers to win €25. Tickets cost €2 each. The Kerins O'Rahillys lotto can also be played online at korgaa.com Please note that it is the responsibility of each individual playing our club lotto via direct debit to ensure that direct debit is paid monthly to the club. In the event that we do not receive two consecutive monthly direct debits an individual's lotto numbers will no longer be valid for entry to our weekly lottery. If an individual cancels their direct debit their lotto entry is deemed cancelled. Lotto Sellers the club needs lotto ticket sellers. It can be worth your while. If you are interested contact any member of the Senior Committee. Performing Arts Classes  Tralee Performing Academy are pleased to have started singing, dancing and acting classes in the Kerins O'Rahillys club function rooms in Charlies Bar and Bistro and are on the lookout for new students aged between 4 and 16 years. The classes take place every Saturday in the two downstairs function rooms under the tuition of qualified teachers, Tara Dore, Tim Landers and Jackie O'Mahony.  All classes are open to boys and girls. The 4-eight-year-olds class (hush puppies) is from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. and the 9-16-year-olds class (tigers) is from four to 5.30 p.m. Call or text Tim at 083 4056829 for further information. Cards Whist drive is back on Thursday nights. Call the club on 7124956 for details. Yoga Classes  There are yoga classes in the club on Thursday nights from 7.30 to 9 p.m. The class consists of warm up, stretching, workout, toning, stress release and relaxation. Phone or text Mike at 087 2732591 for further details. Pilates Classes Do you want to improve your flexibility? Do you suffer from back, neck or hip pain?  Do you want to improve your strength and tone up? Well look no further 'Pilates Classes' have arrived at Kerins O'Rahillys. Mondays 7-8 are for men only, Fitness and Flexibility is at 8.15 to 9.15. Tuesday evening Pregnancy classes at 6 p.m.-6.45 and Pilates for Fitness at 7 p.m.-8. Contact Izabela at 087 7650125 for further details. Charlie's Bar Club lotto on takes place in the bar every Monday night with a special in house raffle if you are present so why not pop along. Why not treat yourself to lunch in Charlie's. There's something to please everyone. The Active Retired coffee morning group meets every Tuesday morning in Charlie's. Come along and keep in touch with old friends and make new friends. 'Dance for Fun' is on Wednesday nights. This has grown in popularity and is a very entertaining night out, a great way to stay fit, learn to dance and to make new friends. Come along and check it out. We have many different size function rooms and cater to all types of functions. Contact Tom or Eileen or any member of staff at 7124956 if you have any queries. Charlie's Bar is on Facebook where there are regular updates on what is happening. Why not check it out. Sympathies Sincere Sympathy is expressed to the family of Anne Moriarty (née Crowley) The Kerries Tralee and formerly Bandon Co Cork, Ellen O'Connor (née Collins) Caherbreach Tralee, Sr Mary Jo Kenny OP Oakpark Tralee and formerly Ballina Co Mayo, Michael (Micheál) O'Shea Curraduff Camp Tralee and Jed Myers Clonmore Terrace Ballymullen Tralee. May they rest in peace.  PRO Contact  If you have any thing you feel is of interest for the Kerins O'Rahillys notes please get in touch. You can contact me at pro.kerinsorahillys.kerry@gaa.ie. Why not join our Facebook group to keep up to date with all fixtures and what is going on in the club. Just follow the following linkfacebook.com/groups/Narries/or follow us on Twitter @korgaa NA GAEIL Na Gaeil annual Fundraising Cycle takes place on Saturday next, August 27. Registration is from 7.30 a.m. onwards at the clubhouse in Killeen. Starting time for the cycle is 9.30 a.m. There is an 80km route via Castleisland, Abbeyfeale and Listowel and a 40km route via Castleisland. Registration fee is €20 for adults and €10 for under-18s. All are welcome to take part in what should be a great day's fun and exercise. Seniors Na Gaeil seniors travelled to Ballymac on Saturday evening last to play the home team in Round 10 of the County League. Na Gaeil were very slow to settle and found it very difficult to get any rhythm going in the early stages of the game. In contrast Ballymac were quick out of the blocks and scored 1-03 without reply in the opening fifteen minutes. Na Gaeil had to wait till the 20th minute to put their first score on the board, a pointed free from Darragh Carmody. Ballymac scored the next two points before Na Gaeil's Eoin Walsh fired over a great point. Darragh Carmody converted two pointed frees for Na Gaeil. Ballymac pointed in the 30th minute and this was followed by an Ian McCarthy point for Na Gaeil. Half time score: Na Gaeil 0-5; Ballymac 1-06. Ballymac had the opening point of the second half before Diarmaid Herlihy pulled back two for Na Gaeil to leave a goal between the sides. Na Gaeil were growing in confidence and scored the next two points through Eoin Walsh and Diarmaid Herlihy to make it a one point game. Ballymac scored the next point. Darragh Carmody was dragged down as he was bearing down on goal and put the resultant free over the bar. Andrew Barry scored a great point to level matters with 10 minutes remaining.  It looked like Na Gaeil might push on at this stage and win the game. They created the chances but failed to convert them into scores. Ballymac broke down the field and scored two late points to close out the game. Final score: Ballymac 1-10; Na Gaeil 0-11. Na Gaeil need not be too despondent. This was their first loss this season. They are already promoted and will be playing division three football next year. So mission accomplished as far as the league is concerned. Team: Timmy Culloty, Dara Sheehy, Kieran Dineen, Dylan Brazil, Eoin Walsh (0-2), David Culloty, Eoin O'Neill, Dan O'Connor, Andrew Barry (0-1), Dylan Seymour, Shane Carey, Seamie O'Neill, Darragh Carmody (0-4), Ian McCarthy (0-1), Diarmaid Herlihy (0-3). Under-16  Our under-16 boys, unbeaten in six games have progressed to the final of the County League against Fossa We defeated Mitchells, Ballymac, Rahillys, Gneevguilla and Fossa in the league to set up a semi-final against Ballymac which was played in Kileen on Wed last. Ballymac gave us a tough challenge and really put it up to us from the throw in. The final score of 3-11 to 1-6 flattered us and the game was much tighter than the scoreline would suggest Jack Rogers missed the game due to a hand injury sustained in the warm up and John Ward courageously stepped between the posts. Liam Rice, Conor Hayes, Ruari O'Sullivan, Adam Ward, Damien Bourke and Darragh Reen all impressed in defence. Fergal Barry and Rory Murphy controlled the middle. Aaron Ward, Tadhg Lynch, Dan Goggin, Jack O'Brien, Aaron Dewey and Jack Sheahan all contributed to some fine scores. Our strong bench of Hack Costello, Barry Sugrue, Enda O'Connor, Jack Bourke and Basit Oyebanji all contributed to a great game. We trained again on Sunday and watch texts for training and the final. We need full attendance at training till the final against Fossa which is fixed for August 31 in a neutral venue. Keep it up. Na Gaeil Abú. Under-12  Well done to those players who took part in the Rose Cup last week-end. There are plenty of games remaining between now and the end of September with Central Region well under way. Training continues Thursday evening 6.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. Under-six  Na Gaeil played Fr Casey's of Abbeyfeale Sunday last in wet conditions. Two separate matches were played which gave all ages a chance to shine. Fine exhibitions of football were displayed and the coaches Denis, Kieran and Paddy were proud to see the skills of the game coming together. A good day for Na Gaeil. Na Gaeil Ladies: Na Gaeil v Beaufort, under-16 County League Div two We played at home on Thursday night against Beaufort. Despite Beaufort missing two all-Ireland under-16 players, they got the first point of the game. But we replied with a point from Sibeal. Clodagh and Abi started to take control of midfield with Dearbhla, Mary and Sarah letting no ball past them. Ria, Meagn and Freya were immense for the remainder of the game allowing very little past them and protecting Aine in goals. Jadyn was also helping midfield and setting up attacks and with goals coming from Clodagh, Abi, Erika, Meagan and Sibeal in the first half, we were flying. Subs Laoise and Muire also scored a goal each when they came on. We made changes in the second half with Emily, Ciara and Caragh coming into the forwards. Isabelle came into the backs and performed well. Caragh got the second half going scoring two points with Brid scoring 2-01 as well. With more scores from Mary, Meagan, Abi, Kay and Sibeal, we finished the game strongly, qualifying for a home semi-final v Beaufort on Thursday the 25th. Team; Aine O'Sullivan, Megan Fernane, Kay Barry, Ria Walsh, Dearbhla Quirke, Sarah Barrett, Freya O'Connor, Clodagh O'Connor, Meagan Sheehy, Abi Casey, Muire Kingston, Ciara Rath, Jadyn Lucey, Brid Sinnott, Emily Crowe, Isabelle Crowe, Laoise Delahunty, Mary O'Connell, Caragh O'Neill, Erika O'Sullivan, Sibeal Casey, Sandra Keane.  Under-13 blitz We played in the Sandra Keane under-13 Blitz in atrocious conditions on Saturday morning in John Mitchels. We played Abbeydorney in our first game. We played with the wind in the first half and used it to great effect with a point from Muire and two points from Ciara. Siena got a goal just before half time. We used the ball well in the second half with Cara working well with Kayleigh Costello and Siena which enabled both girls to score a goal each. As the clock was ticking down Abbeydorney came back at us and scored two late goals thanks to the wind to beat us by a point. We played our second game against Firies who had beaten us in the under-13 championship. The team was lead by Sarah and Freya in midfield and were backed by a strong defence of Megan Fernane, Eimear, Kayleigh Murphy, Adelina and Ailbhe. These girls gave no ground against Firies. This enabled Siena, Ciara and Muire to get the scores we needed to beat Firies. Our third game was against Castlegregory. With little between the teams, it was a tense game as whoever won made the Cup semi-final. Both teams were cagey. Clodagh and Caoilinn were defending well in the backs. Eimear got forward to get our first point. Cara found Sarah with a pass to get us another point. Megan Lynch got the ball to Ciara for her point. Sarah got us another score just before half time. We were playing into a strong breeze for the second half but Eimear was winning a lot of our kickouts from Winnie and was able to get up the field with the ball and find our midfielders to hold onto the ball. Firies did score in the second half but we managed to hold on to our lead to qualify for the Cup semi-final. We played Austin Stacks in the semi-final. Another tight affair as there was not much between the teams. We were struggling a bit with injuries at this stage to both Muire and Siena, Despite this, they played through the pain barrier and with Siena setting up Ciara for a goal. Muire and Kayleigh Costello both got a point each, Sarah hit the crossbar with a shot.  The wind was howling at this stage and didn't help us with the ball being left and right of the uprights. We had a slender lead going into the second half with Sarah, Eimear and Freya trying to hold back the Stacks attacks. Ailbhe, Megan and Caoilinn were tight on all their players. Clodagh and Cara were making runs in the forwards to create space but it was very hard for midfielders Kayleigh and Adelina to get the ball forward with the rising wind. Stacks got through and got themselves a goal.  We still managed to create a couple of chances but just did not have the luck. Stacks got themselves two goals with a bit of help from the wind and we could not bring back the deficit. We were unlucky in the end but there was some great football played by girls with a great attitude. Well done to the girls and to the North Kerry Board who organised it. Team; Winnie Burke, Megan Fernane, Caoilinn O'Brien, Kayleigh Murphy, Ailbhe Daly, Eimear O'Sullivan, Adelina Kastrati, Sarah Barrett, Freya O'Connor, Muire Kingston, Ciara Rath, Siena Lucey, Kayleigh Costello, Meagan Lynch, Cara Gannon, Clodagh O'Sullivan. Clothes Collection Na Gaeil Ladies are fundraising with a used clothes and shoes collection. All unwanted items such as new, unused, torn and unwanted clothes, bedding and towels, curtains, shoes, bags and belts are being collected by the ladies club as part of their fundraising campaign. Any items for donation can be brought along to training or dropped into the club bar any evening. All contributions greatly appreciated Cash For Clubs  Na Gaeil is now registered in the 'Topaz Cash for Clubs' initiative. Any club Members who are also Topaz card holders are able to allocate tokens to the club and help raise funds Na Gaeil Cycling Club Na Gaeil Cycling Club are now up and running with their full summer schedule: Monday and Wednesday nights at 6.15 p.m. and Saturday mornings at 10 a.m. All are welcome, high vis essential Fir na Gaeil  Light Football Training for Men who have retired from playing football and for those that have not played and would like to try it out. Very little skill is required. We train on Monday and Friday nights from 7.30 to 8.30 p.m. This is a great way to keep fit with light training, ball games and a bit of a laugh. Contact Eddie at 087 6791460 for more info. Mná Na Gaeil  We are a Gaelic for Mothers and Others team who come together and do a bit of exercise, football training and socialising. Anyone who would like to join are most welcome, No skills are required, just a good attitude and a sense for fun. We are out in the field on Wednesday nights and Saturday evenings. Boots or Runners are all that are required. Contact Eddie at 087 6791460 for more info. Lotto  The draw for the jackpot of €4,800 took place on Tuesday evening last. Numbers drawn were 4, 5, 20 and 26. There was no winner. €50 winners were Martina Culloty, Ballinorig East and Seán Lewis, Tipperary. €25 winners were Gerard Buckley, Tarbert, James Prendergast, Mounthawk Manor, David Field Abbeydorney and Dick O'Brien, Connolly Park. Next week's lotto is worth €4,900. All are welcome for the draw in the club each Tuesday night at 10.30 p.m. Bingo Bingo is on every Monday night at 8.30 p.m. We have prize money of over €1,000 guaranteed every week with a mini jackpot that increases fortnightly when not won. A door prize and a half-time raffle with lovely prizes will also take place every week.. A bus service is available at 087 2817577. You can ring this number for pick up and drop off. 100% of the funds raised go back directly into the club.  The bingo is run on a total voluntary basis and a huge thank you to all the parents who offer their time to run this vital fundraiser for the club. If anyone wants to donate a spot prize for our weekly bingo raffle, please leave it at the club house and mark it 'Bingo'. Thanks to all our patrons who support this event on a weekly basis. Cards A card game is held every Wednesday night in the clubhouse. This is a very sociable occasion where you meet your friends for a great night's entertainment and relaxation. Everyone from novice to senior will enjoy a relaxing game of 45. ST PAT'S Lotto There was no winner of our club lotto jackpot on Sunday night last. The numbers drawn were 08, 15, 21 and 23. The five €30 consolation prizes went to Sheila Murphy Ballymac, Ned Flynn c/o Betty's Bar, Fionn Carr Rosscahill Galway, Denis O'Sullivan Annagh and C. Regan Keel. Next week's lotto will have a jackpot of €2,100 and the draw will take place this Monday night, August 29, in Skelper Quane's Bar. Lotto tickets are available from the usual outlets or any club officer Academy Our Juvenile Academy resumed after four weeks break and despite the inclement weather, we had a good turnout. All the players present gave it their all during the training session. Due to Kerry's involvement in the all-Ireland semi-final this Sunday, our Academy will take place this Thursday evening at 6 p.m. We hope to see you all there. Under-16s  St Pat's 3-11 Keel/Listry 2-11 St Pat's advanced to the final of the County League last Wednesday evening in a thrilling and hard won semi-final. Having previously beaten the same opposition the week previously to gain home advantage, St Pat's started in whirlwind fashion, dominating the pitch. Our central midfield pairing of Patrick Dowling and Shane Jordan controlled the action while Luke O'Carroll and Adam Boyle worked extremely hard leaving the Keel/Listry defence chasing shadows. Our defence was also on top and kept scoring opportunities to a minimum, with Cathal Fitzgibbon and Ali Gardezi both playing very well. St Pat's forwards were much more dangerous throughout, with Tristan Raymond impressing. A tight second half ensured that hardly a fingernail was left on the sidelines, the tension only easing on the full time whistle. St Pat's will play Kilcummin this Wednesday evening, the 24th in Ballymac with extra-time playable. Throw-in is at 6.45 p.m. A big turnout of supporters is needed to cheer our boys hopefully over the line. Senior B Team St Pat's 4-5 Ballydonoghue 2-10 We qualified for the McElligott Cup semi-final by virtue of our victory over Ballydonoghue in Coolard on Friday night last. After what would have to be described as a lack lustre performance by us in the opening 30 minutes, where we trailed 1-3 to 2-6, we seemed to up a few gears in the second period and ran out winners by the narrowest of margins at the end. Team: Aidan O'Halloran, Paul O'Sullivan, Andy Byrne, Anthony Craig, Killian O'Riordan, Conor Moore, Eric Teahan, Jack Quilter [0-1], Geoffrey Foley [0-1], George Carnegie [0-1], Joe Costello, Cian Ronan [1-0], Seán Hayes [0-1], James Costello [1-1] and Brendain Savage [2-0]. Sub: Eoin Sayers Best Wishes: Best wishes to Kieran Dwyer and the Kerry Minors and the Kerry Seniors in their semi-final matches against Kildare and Dublin respectively this Sunday in Croke Park. Birthday Wishes Best wishes to former St Pat's player and trainer, Derek O'sullivan and Gavin Collins who both celebrated significant birthdays recently. Congratulations to our under-16 player, Cathal Fitzgibbon on coming fourth in the 1500m final in the National Community Games in Athlone and to David Walsh, who came third in the under-eight 80m final. Na Gaeil annual Cycle Na Gaeil annual Fundraising Cycle takes place on Saturday, August 27. Starting time is 9.30 a.m. from the clubhouse in Killeen. There is an 80km route via Castleisland, Abbeyfeale and Listowel and a 40km route via Castleisland. Registration fee is €20 for adults and €10 for under-18s. All are welcome to take part in what should be a great day's fun and exercise. Pieta House  Pieta House provides one to one counselling, free of charge, for people who have thoughts of suicide, have attempted suicide and people who engage in self harm. Please contact 066 7163660. Pieta House, 28 Moyderwell, Tralee. Sympathy  The club would like to extend its sympathy to the families and friends of Philomena Murphy formerly of Derrymore West and Springfield Massachusetts USA, Anne Moriarty the Kerries, John Michael (Jackie) Kelly Lohercannon and Michael O'Shea Camp. Tralee Parnells Under-12 camogie Smiles all round Monday evening the 15th in Killarney from our players after two great camogie matches in the under-12 county league. It was clear to see the benefits of Cúl Camp skills development, almost all these girls were at the Tralee Parnells Hurling and camogie club Cúl Camp that morning honing their skills and teamwork. In an entertaining and competitive opening game, Parnells took scores and created chances against a strong Causeway panel.  In the final game of the evening, Parnells faced the home team in a very close and keenly contested match. Parnells created lots of opportunities, but it was in the second half that this pressure paid off with well taken scores. Final result Parnells 2-1, Killarney 1-1, well done to all involved in a super team effort to earn these valuable league points. Tralee Parnells camogie players on the evening at Dr Crokes were Caoimhe Lyons, Danielle Griffin, Caoimhe Donnelly, Ciara Casey, Emma McCluskey, Jessica O'Loughlin, Ciara Casey, Clodagh O'Sullivan, Nora Cadogan, Sadhbh Cadogan, Anna Kerdzaia, Caoilinn Hickey, Ailisha Daughton. Team photo at facebook.com/Tralee Parnells Hurling Club/ Under-15 vs Lixnaw An entertaining and very competitive game was played in Caherslee by the Tralee Parnells under-15 team who hosted Lixnaw on Thursday evening, August 11. This Parnells panel was made up of under-15, 14 and 13 players, with younger lads filling the gaps for the small number missing on the night. Tadhg Reen played well in goal and made some vital stops.  In front of Tadhg on the final line of defense, Martin Savage was once again strong around the square and was ably assisted by Seán O'Driscoll and Terence Carmody. The half back line also played well, with Enda O'Connor omnipresent around the number six position, particularly in the first half, helping repulse repeated Lixnaw attacks.  Darragh Reen and Ruarí O'Sullivan ranged well around the midfield and an early surge forward by Ruarí to find the net put Parnells into a great early lead. Darragh Fitzgerald, John Carmody and Joe Hanafin kept the pressure on the Lixnaw defense, with Darragh taking several composed and vital points from frees. Sources around Stand Road tell us Darragh has been diligently working on his free taking in recent weeks and this preparation effort paid off in spades on the night. Lixnaw dug in and ate into the Parnells lead as the first half finished, with the minimum separating the sides going into the interval. At number 14 Robin Porter was clearly enjoying his hurling and is no doubt delighted with his tally of well taken goals. Joey Nagle came on in the second half and it was good to see a young player taking up the challenge of contributing at an older age group.  In the end the goals difference decided the encounter and Parnells ran out winners on a scoreline of 4-8 to 2-08. Despite the margin at the end, this was a match that could have gone either way up to the final stages. With Lixnaw missing some players, if the teams were to meet again, it would likely be a close encounter. In the 2015 Féile, Lixnaw were the nemesis of this Parnells panel, knocking us out in a tight game, so it is encouraging for the Tralee lads to come out ahead on this occasion.  This game was probably the most complete performance ever delivered by this group of hurlers, with several delivering their best ever individual contributions. Some of these boys have soldiered together since the 2009 Muckross under-eight Blitz organised by Kerry star John Griffin. In the years since then some have fallen away from hurling, while many others have joined us on our journey to give us a most welcome boost in numbers. Now that this group are maturing in their skills and decision making, we wish them well on their onward journey as part of the ongoing Tralee Parnells project. In Caherslee in the Parnells colours we had Tadhg Reen, Seán O'Driscoll, Martin Savage, Terence Carmody, Jonathan Lowe, Enda O'Connor, Luke Chester, Darragh Reen, Ruarí O'Sullivan, Darragh Fitzgerald, John Carmody, Joe Hanafin, Graham Sheehy, Robin Porter, Brian Hamilton, Joey Nagle, Mark Roche, Jamie Fitzgerald.  We look forward to the return of Cian Cronin, Jim Cadogan, Niall Cassidy and Kevin O'Connor, for the next fixture vs Causeway. Under-14 Final: The North Kerry B final was played Sunday morning the 21st at Austin Stack park Tralee. With a score of 2-3 to 0-4 at half time Crotta leading, Parnells having been more wasteful in front of the posts, a big second half was called for and Parnells upped their performance to come within a score in the final stages. In the end it was heartbreak for our lads who lost 4-04 to 2-08. The team played very well and can be very proud of their performance. Report to follow.  Under-10 Blitz in Clare  The Tralee Parnells under-10 boys participated at the Jack Moriarty Memorial Blitz in Clonlara Co Clare last Saturday. (Jack Moriarty was a proud Tralee and Kerryman who helped Clonlara GAA to where they are today). Our boys showed great skill and ability in all the games and displayed a never die attitude. They played the hosts Clonlara (Clare), Tulla (Clare) and Ardrahan (Galway). Their behaviour was top notch as always and the boys are a credit to Tralee Parnells.  Many thanks to Clonlara GAA Club for their great hospitality which was crowned off by the boys being presented participation medals by the Clare Senior hurlers. The under-10 boys have had a great year of games to date with games against Kerry, Dublin, Cork, Clare and Galway opposition. Onwards now to our club and the final North Kerry Blitz. Parnells Cúl Camp: Tralee Parnells GAA Cúl Camp got under way on Monday the 15th with glorious sunshine in Caherslee.  Over 50 young hurlers are attending the camp, no doubt spurred on by the heroics in Croke Park of Austin Gleeson, Richie Hogan and Paudie Maher at the weekend. Putting the players through their paces we had Kerry senior star Colm Harty, who was delighted with the skills on display by both boys and girls. Hurl with Me Tralee Parnells hope to bring the camogie Association 'Hurl With Me' programme to our area in the near future. One aim of this initiative is to get more of our adults pucking around at home with juvenile players, and correcting any errors. Stay tuned for further details coming soon. Under-15 Development Well done to the Kerry under-15 Hurling development squad who took the points against Glen Rovers in the Cork under-15 Premier League. From our Parnells club, Darragh Reen and Ruarí O'Sullivan played in the match and Tralee Parnells wish this panel well on their remaining fixtures. Big Blitz September 3 Tralee Parnells Big Blitz Day is coming soon. To kick off all-Ireland Hurling Final weekend, Tralee Parnells will host an even bigger Hurling and camogie Big Blitz day for 2016, on Saturday, September 3, at John Mitchels GAA. Grounds. Keep an eye on social media for further details to follow. Kerryman 
