sport football
{ Martin  Breheny 
    August 27 2008 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/devotion-earns-just-rewards-26472343.html }
IF a nationwide survey of attitudes towards GAA life in Wexford were carried out it's virtually certain that the findings would show that they are regarded essentially as a hurling county. Art Foley's save from Christy Ring which helped clinch the All-Ireland hurling double in 1956; Nick O'Donnell captaining them to victory four years later; the incredible second-half recovery which beat Tipperary in the 1968 final and, to crown it all, Liam Griffin's 'Riverdance of Sport' routine in 1996 sold the Wexford hurling brand all over the country. There were depressing times too, but those peaks still remain visible from wherever the Wexford hurling landscape is scanned. And Wexford footballers? Didn't they win an All-Ireland four-in-a-row back around the time of the Easter Rising? They most certainly did, taking their place in football history as the first four-in-a-row winners from 1915 until 1918. But the fact that it's 90 years ago since the last of their All-Ireland titles were harvested in football, coupled with a 63-year wait for a Leinster title, left the rest of the country viewing Wexford as a hurling county which occasionally dabbled in football. The Wexford public know differently, but a lack of success drained their passion for football. Instead, the summer was all about the big hurling adventure. There were plenty barren spells but next year always promised something -- hopefully a win over Kilkenny, which remains the great ambition to this day. Popularity But while hurling forced its way to the forefront of the public consciousness, football's popularity as a participant sport never waned. And unlike many counties where there's a geographical split between hurling and football, the majority of Wexford clubs are double-handed. In terms of providing choices and opportunities for players, it looks a good model but inevitably it has led to conflict among those who are looking for first loyalties. Indeed, as the demands on players grew over the years so did the difficulties in Wexford where both codes are so closely linked. Tony Dempsey is in the rather unusual position of having been involved in a managerial and/or selectorial role with county and club teams at all grades in both codes as well as spending a period as County Chairman and later as Central Council representative. He recalls a time when the best dual players lined out for both the Wexford hurling and football teams -- just as they did in Cork and some other counties. But as training and game schedules began to force players to specialise in one code, football lost out in Wexford. "I suppose players saw a greater chance of winning titles with the hurlers. They were always regarded as having a good chance in Leinster whereas the footballers weren't," he said. "That, in turn, reflected itself in the attitude of the Wexford public who didn't support the footballers to the same degree as the hurlers." For all that, Wexford football remained very strong in the clubs. Men like the late Seamus Keevans, a pioneering figure who did so much to promote football in the county, always believed that the county team could emerge as a real force. Despite that sort of confidence and enthusiasm, Wexford became a classic example of a county whose footballers lived in the shadow of the higher-profile hurlers. It was easier for the hurlers to make progress in a Leinster hurling championship where there were far fewer contenders than in football which, in turn, made it more attractive for dual players to concentrate on small ball action. Progress in football was limited at under-age level too, although hopeful signs emerged from time to time which nourished the enthusiasts who believed in the long-term. In 1988, an Offaly U-21 team, that later went on to win the All-Ireland title, was taken to a third replay by Wexford in a remarkable Leinster final. Unfortunately for Wexford, they lost the fourth game by just two points. Tony Dempsey managed the Wexford team and still recalls how desperately close they came to making a breakthrough which could have proved crucial in raising the county's football stock. The 1990s were largely unproductive at senior championship level but the enthusiasm for football never waned, although it slipped well down the public's interest list when the hurlers won the All-Ireland title in 1996; a season in which the senior footballers were hammered by Carlow in the first round of the Leinster campaign. Nevertheless, the decade ended with Good Counsel, New Ross winning the All-Ireland colleges football title in '99, beating no less a force than St Jarlath's, Tuam in the final. It was a sign of better times ahead. Ironically, the introduction in 2001 of the 'back door' All-Ireland system, which was supposed to benefit mid-rankling counties, brought no great benefit to Wexford other than to offer them the opportunity to venture outside Leinster borders. Still, that may well have been significant in its own way. Gradually, a degree of consistency was established inside Leinster as semi-finals were reached quite regularly before a place in the final was clinched this year. One of the more significant developments in the Wexford rise was the change of approach among some dual players. Hurling manager, John Meyler, would have loved to have exclusive access to Ciaran Lyng, Redmond Barry and Brian Malone this year but they opted to remain with the footballers. And then there's Matty Forde, one of the true superstars of Wexford sport who would probably have made it at the highest level of hurling if his devotion to football wasn't so strong. Dempsey said that when he was hurling manager earlier in the decade, he tried to persuade Forde to join the panel but he declined. "He kept saying that football was his game. I knew that but he would have made one hell of a hurler too. Deep down though, he wanted to put everything into football. I know people will say I'm biased but I have no hesitation in saying that Matty Forde is the best footballer I ever saw. If Maurice Fitzgerald scored the goal Matty got against Armagh in the All-Ireland quarter-final, people would be talking about it for years," he said. Dempsey describes Wexford's advance to the All-Ireland semi-final as a fairytale that the entire county is enjoying to the utmost. Few thought after the heavy Leinster semi-final defeat by Dublin on July 20 that six weeks later Wexford would be preparing for an All-Ireland semi-final while Dublin's ambitions have been scattered into oblivion. It's part of a new reality in Wexford where the devotion to football, although not always appreciated locally or nationally, never wavered among the sport's true aficionados. 
