sport football
{  
    August 21 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/sport/other-sports/over-e13m-allocated-to-grass-roots-soccer-27776329.html }
SOME ?1.375 million has been allocated to the FAI by the Irish Sports Council towards their 2003 programmes aimed at increasing participation in soccer at all levels. The announcement which was made by Minister for Arts, Sport and Tourism, John O’Donoghue is very much in line with the Irish Sports Council’s strategic objectives of increasing opportunities to participate in sport at local level and particularly for school aged children. Making the announcement at the FAI Soccer School in Malahide, the Minister said: ‘Many young people throughout Ireland are benefiting from the Irish Sports Council’s investment in the FAI. From their innovative projects young people will gain a love for sport and enjoy immeasurable lifestyle and health benefits throughout their lives.’ The allocation brings to ?4.33 million the total awarded to the FAI by the Irish Sports Council since the introduction in 2001 of the special budget measure for the encouragement of greater underage participation in the three major field sports. The summer schools run by the FAI in each county are just one of the projects supported by the Irish Sports Council funding, with numbers participating nationally in the summer soccer schools on course to reach 20,000 this summer, an increase of nearly 100 per cent on 2002. The exponential growth in attendances at summer schools is due mainly to the deployment of an extra four Regional Development Officers, enabling the FAI to deliver a soccer school in every county in Ireland. Mr Pat O’Neill, Chairperson of the Irish Sports Council said: ‘The Council acknowledges the tremendous work done by the FAI in developing sport and recognises that it is well placed to make significant progress on sports participation rates throughout Ireland.’ The Irish Sports Council has a detailed programme of specific projects for 2003 with the FAI, including the Development Officer Programmes that incorporates the Regional Development Officers, the Designated Areas Scheme, the National Goalkeeping Coach, and the Referees Development Programme. Other projects are the Football in Schools Programme (including Buntus / FUNdamentals), the Football For All Programme, Schoolboys/Schoolgirls Football and the National Under 21 League. The Chief Executive of the FAI, Mr Fran Rooney, attended the launch. ‘The close association between the Irish Sports Council and the FAI is producing fantastic results at grass roots level. The future of soccer is in the youth and we specifically aim to increase participation amongst young people, women and those with disabilities as part of our ‘one association, one game’ strategy. The Sports Council funding is a major boost to achieving our objectives.’ Irish Sports Council Chief executive Mr John Treacy said: ‘Our strategy, ‘Sport for life’ emphasises that our priority is the creation of sporting opportunities for young people. The Sports Council will continue to work with the FAI for the good of Irish sport and for the benefit of young people throughout Ireland.’ 2003 projects will once again include the Regional Development Officers, responsible for the delivery of FAI programmes at local level. The RDO Programme was heralded as a major success by the FAI in 2002. Last year the RDO Programme was expanded to cover coach education involving women/girls and people with special needs while work continued in the schools, soccer camps and development squads. The Regional Development Officers are working at full capacity due in no small part to the implementation of programmes such as the Buntus Programme. In 2003, the FAI intends to allocate ?561,224 of ISC funding to the RDO Programme. The Designated Areas Scheme, aimed at empowering young people in socially disadvantaged areas, will continue with the FAI with ?78,724 allocated. The Buntus programme, in association with the Sports Council, to assist schools in developing sport has been another success story with over 1,100 teachers receiving training and over 20,000 children being directly targeted through the programme with the help of the Regional Development Officers. In addition to the Buntus programme, 11 New Primary School Leagues were set up and 9 FAI introductory Course teacher Training Courses were implemented with 190 students attending. The FAI intends allocating ?190,460 towards the Buntus programme in 2003. Futsal, the official FIFA version of five-a-side football will receive funding in 2003 to the tune of ?35,553. In 2002, the Inner City Futsal Programme in partnership with the Dublin City Council and Dublin Bus took place in 16 venues with 912 children taking part from some of Dublin’s most disadvantaged areas. For 2003, some 30 venues have been selected in, including four outside Dublin. 
