sport football
{ KARL MacGINTY 
    November 11 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/paying-the-price-for-a-lifetime-of-devotion-26104046.html }
CAPTAIN of his county; hero of the Hill. Dessie Farrell had  every reason to feel confident when the conversation turned to football. "How long do you reckon you'll be involved at inter-county level," his interviewer asked. The Dublin star confidently played his trump card. "I'll possibly play another two or three years," he said. "Maybe a bit longer if I can stay injury-free." That was 12 months ago and, at the end of his playing days, Dessie was hoping to make the leap from the public into the private sector. After spending all of his working life as a psychiatric nurse at St Brendan's Hospital, Farrell had his heart set on a new career as a rep for a pharmaceutical company. The interviews for the position had been searching but when the subject of football came up, Dessie reckoned his prospective employers would be impressed with the public profile his sport has given him. "Given the nature of the job, I really thought that would be to my advantage," he says. "I got the job alright, but, a week later, the boss came up to me and said 'by the way, you gave the wrong answer to that question. We would like you to be more tuned-in to your career than football at this stage'." That's the way of the world these days. Businessmen may cram the corporate boxes at Croke Park on a Sunday afternoon but once Monday morning comes, the only points that interest them are on the stock market; the one goal they set in the workplace is profit. "Times have changed," Farrell explains. "We now live in a culture where everyone is under pressure to get ahead financially. Throughout business or work, people are expected to keep doing better for themselves. "Yet the harsh reality facing Gaelic players is that they have no chance to take part in all of this. Because of the commitment they have to make to their sport, the inter-county hurler and footballer completely misses out on work opportunities." WHETHER he's turning down overtime at the factory; paying fellow employees to do his shift or missing out on the chance to advance his career through extra-curricular work or further education, the average county star is placed at a serious disadvantage by the relentless pursuit of sporting excellence. And Farrell, newly-elected chairman of the Gaelic Players' Association, believes "the biggest issue we are facing at the moment is the financial stress players are under - the strain they have to endure because of their commitment to Gaelic games. "Is it fair that players and their families should be penalised because of their sporting ability," asks Dessie, explaining that the GPA is now in the process of establishing the precise cost of playing inter-county football and hurling in terms of lost-earnings and day-to-day expenses. However pressing and contentious it might be, the money issue is just one on the comprehensive agenda drawn up by the GPA at last weekend's inaugural AGM in Killarney. Fourteen months may have passed since the players' body was founded but after a year spent "building our public profile," Farrell says the GPA is now ready to embark on a major recruitment drive which he believes will attract 95 per cent of inter-county players, giving them a clear and irresistible voice in determining the future of their games. And that mandate will be used, the Dublin captain insists, to "keep Croke Park on its toes and focussed on the real issues which face those who play our national games. If that happens, I don't see why the GAA shouldn't be one of the greatest sports bodies in the world." Farrell's enthusiasm for the enormous task which awaits him is fuelled partly by his fears for the future of Gaelic games in the increasingly competitive sports market. The association's neglect of the problems which bedevil so many of its playing members are symptoms of a far wider malaise. When Dessie speaks about the sporting path he followed and the game he loves, he talks with passion yet his words betray a deep vein of anger and frustrations, emotions with which many of his playing comrades would readily identify. He and his association are firmly convinced there is a need for an autonomous voice for players if their grievances are to be heard and their determination to assert themselves is undiminished. Listen for a few minutes as Farrell speaks about football and you are struck by his joy for the game and his gratitude for the many friends, memories and achievements, including that All-Ireland medal with Dublin in 1995, it has brought him. "Even if I wasn't an inter-county player, I would still be playing football because I love it. In many ways I feel privileged to play it," says Dessie. "I've always been a sportsman but I chose Gaelic football as my game because there was a tradition for it in my family. My father was a GAA fanatic so that is the road I went down." But now, after a career which has yielded the highest honours that Gaelic football can deliver, Farrell is forced to admit: "I'm green with envy at the likes of Roy Keane and others like him. I went to school with Kenny Cunningham at St Vincent's and we played together on the team that won the Dublin Colleges Championship. "He was from a soccer background so he went down that line and got a great career from it. By comparison, Gaelic players feel they are being penalised for the career they have chosen and I am not just talking about money here." HE adds: "For example, virtually every other sport is able to provide its players with a comprehensive fixture list," explains Dessie, a former schoolboy international at hockey who went on to gain senior inter-provincial honours with Leinster. "At the start of each season, guys will know when they are playing, when they will be off for a weekend and even if they can take a holiday," he adds. "They can plan accordingly - get married or hold a christening. You can't plan these things in our game. You are totally and utterly in the hands of fate." Like so many other football families, Farrell's wife Noirín and their two young children have almost forgotten what it's like to go on a summer holiday. It's six years since Dessie's playing and training commitments with the Dubs have permitted such luxuries. Farrell, who is also at the heart of Na Fianna's bid to retain their Leinster club championship crown, wouldn't mind so much if there was a clearly defined closed season in Gaelic football. "The hurlers have it at the moment, which is great but the footballers need to have it as well," he insists. A complete overhaul of the fixture lists, with a Champions' League-style championship being played on alternate Sundays with the club championship from spring through to late autumn, is one proposition which would help Gaelic football compete on a more level footing with other international codes. Compensation for players; improved organisation and the provision of many more big matches for the fans must all be part of the formula if Gaelic games are to thrive in the modern marketplace, according to Farrell. "I cannot agree with the romantics who argue that if you pay players, you will threaten the very fabric of the games," he says. "I personally think you are going to improve them. "As things stand, fellows are giving a professional commitment but are not attaining a professional standard because of the Mickey mouse structures which are in place in the game. "Hurling and football are our national games but I think we are losing a steady stream of young kids to other sports where there might be a lot more opportunities for them and where, at the end of the day, the financial and social rewards are so much better. "If they had the same opportunities in Gaelic games - and I'm not talking about £60,000 a year - then this tide might be stemmed. More should be done to glamourise the games; to promote the players and to create fresh appeal. "At the moment, my own county, Dublin, is in an awful state. Whether we like it or not, soccer has a huge hold in this city," adds Dessie. "Kids need heroes. That's why they are walking around with names like Keane or Owen on their shirts. They are seeing them week-in, week-out in important games on the TV. "How often do they see the likes of Jason Sherlock play in an important match. We will have to play the championship on a league basis if we are to create and maintain appeal, if we are to make an impact among the children of this country. And if you bring-in the children, you also bring their parents, which will sustain the number of volunteers working at local level." THE GPA has had to endure harsh public scrutiny, with its most strident critics casting thinly-veiled charges of elitism at the new organisation. Farrell strongly refutes this charge - most effectively so when he explains precisely why he has thrown his shoulder so enthusiastically to this heavy wheel. "I don't expect to get a lot out of it myself," he says. "By the time any of this comes to fruition, I'll have retired. But I am sure it will result in golden opportunities for players further down the line." And among those players he would love to see his own son Frankie, now only four. "Knowing the great times I have had in football, all my fond memories and all the good friends I have made, I naturally hope that my son will become a sportsman as well. "But I'd hate to be telling him, as a dad, that I'm going to send him down the route of golf, soccer or rugby, and away from Gaelic games, because of what had happened the players in my time. I'd love him to play football or hurling but, most of all, I would like to see him rewarded for whatever talent he has. Certainly not penalised!" 
