sport football
{ Nick Webb 
    August 16 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/kevins-clean-pair-of-heels-26234146.html }
FORMER Irish international soccer hero Kevin Moran has just become a non-executive director of sports betting firm Sports Spread. Where he was once famed  for getting his head in when the studs were flying, Moran will now be concentrating on  getting his bonce round the figures of the stock market-bound bookie. Moran invested in the company in a ?2m fund raising round about 15 months ago. Sports Spread recently completed a ?3m second round of fundraising, led by IIB and Merrion Capital. Investors in the company now include the likes of former Smurfit Stone chief Ray Curran, golfer Paul McGinley, Sporting Index co-founder Lindsay McNeile and corporate financier Peter Blessing. Fresh from his first board meeting, Moran sinks an afternoon pint of the black stuff in the cellar bar of the Merrion Hotel. Despite having headed the ball in a footballing career that spanned 16 years, Moran is remarkably sharp. Although it would be unfair to expect him to have all the financial nitty gritty of the company to hand after just one meeting, he's certainly up to speed on his role and the company's strategy. The non-executives clearly don't just play golf and have long lunches in this business. Moran feels that he has been brought on board for a number of reasons. He helped take the British-based sports management firm Proactive Sports onto the stock market and he's also been involved in acquisitions. Sports Spread is limbering up for its own flotation. "I would imagine that you would be looking at listing but only when things are right. Firstly the company has to be up and running in a fashion that's worth taking to the market and secondly that the market conditions are correct. There's no point in just saying that you're going to float in six months time," he says. Sports Spread has the market almost to itself in Ireland, with the company on target to hit sales of ?80m this year. "We would really be the only one here in this country. Paddy Power don't do it. Others have tried it. Ladbrokes tried it but got out as well. It just hasn't worked for some of them," he says. Despite this, Moran feels that Sports Spread will succeed because it has a different approach to its forerunners. "What we've tried to do is keep the cost base down. The big ones are based in London with big rents for the real estate," he says. There's also the not inconsequential matter of Ireland's favourable corporate tax regime, he adds. The latest round of fund raising is to bankroll Sports Spread's expansionist plans, according to Moran. "The major part of it is because we're going into the UK market. It's looking at the marketing and promotion of the company going forward and the set up of a new office," he says. "We've got to get a licence in the next month or so and set up a base and then we'll be ready to go." The most recent fundraising round values the company at ?11m. Moran freely admits that he wouldn't be the greatest of gambling high rollers. He's barely nibbled at Sports Spreads smorgasbord of bets. "I have tried it but I wouldn't be a good client," he jokes. "But I lost. It was only ?20 or ?30 though on a fixed odds rather than a spread bet. I've been meaning to do it though but I don't know how to." Judging by the Premiership bets he's just sent in (see panel, below), he's learning pretty quickly. Sports Spread isn't just about spread betting though. The company has also got a fixed odds division SupremeOdds.com and a financial betting section Share Spread. "About 60 per cent to 70 per cent of turnover is on Sports Spread, with the fixed odds having around 15 per cent to 20 per cent and Share Spread the rest," he says. The Sports Spread division is the fastest growing part of the business. The company has also rolled out a new online casino. An interest must be declared at this stage. A ?20 bribe . . . er . . . free bet was sent into the Sunday Independent business desk and, eh . . . put it this way, very little work was done last Thursday. Outside of the bookie business, Moran is also heavily involved in the business of football in the UK through Proactive Sports, one of the major sports managers in the UK. Moran joined super agent Paul Stretford at the company on his retirement from the game in 1994. The Oliver Freaney-trained footballing accountant used to be the finance director but he's taken a back seat role in recent times, relegating himself to a non-executive role. The company represents the likes of Everton wunderkind Wayne Rooney, Manchester United's Irish full back John O'Shea and Blackburn keeper Brad Friedel. In recent months the firm has come under the spotlight after a BBC documentary revealed that a number of high-profile British football managers were actually shareholders in the AIM-listed company. These included Celtic boss Martin O'Neill, Manchester City manager Kevin Keegan, Blackburn manager Graeme Souness, ex-Derby chief John Gregory and former Sunderland boss Peter Reid. O'Neill and Reid have sold out, with Reid saying that he had done nothing wrong but perhaps the shareholding was not appropriate. It has been suggested that the managers could potentially have a conflict of interest by investing in a company that they may deal with for arranging player transfers. "It's garbage, so it is," says Moran. "It's journalists who just want to make a story. You know it is - and you jumped on the back of it as well," he snaps. Yikes! Moran says that, for instance, if a football manager had 300,000 shares, they would only be worth about stg£12,000 at current prices. "What you're saying, or trying to imply, is that a manager would buy one of our players for the sake of stg£12,000?" he says. It's a compelling argument, but the fact remains that some of Proactive's shareholders have done business with the company. Graeme Souness bought Proactive client Andy Cole to Blackburn, and Peter Reid bought another Proactive player, Claudio Reyna, to Sunderland. All of this has caused something of a brouhaha. Moran says that the company has never talked to the managers about selling their shares. "In some ways maybe we'd prefer if they did but then we say why shouldn't they hold on to them. What's wrong with it? They don't have a problem. The only ones who think there's a problem with conflicts of interest is the press. If you look at what a manager earns and what his shares are worth it's just ridiculous." Given that Moran is at the business end of the football transfer market, he has a better idea than most about what's actually happening out there. "The market is still relatively quiet, I don't think that there's a lot of clubs out there still with money. There's a lot of caution at the clubs and rightly so. But [Russian billionaire] Roman Abramovich has come in and pumped stg£80m into the UK marketplace. There'll be a knock-on effect. "Look at clubs like Blackburn, they'll have stg £17m from the sale of Damien Duff and another stg£5m from the sale of David Dunn, so they'll have money to spend." Last year, Proactive conducted 117 transfers. "It wouldn't be anything like that this year. It could be only 40 this year," he says. The crippling player wage inflation has probably been the single largest contributory factor to the perilous state of football's finances. Surely it's partially the fault of agents, who pushed up wage levels for their clients? Moran narrows his eyes and issues an unnerving: "Hmmmm." He elaborates. "If you look at any business there are two sides to it. The clubs didn't manage their finances correctly. The agent's job is to get the best deal for the player." Recently, the transfer of Aussie international Harry Kewell from Leeds to Liverpool caused a huge amount of controversy when it emerged that agent Bernie Mandic's company had pocketed stg£2m from the stg£5m deal, which Moran describes as "an absurd amount". So how much could an agent expect from a deal? "There's no formula, there are no standards. You just couldn't say," he insists. There's clearly no way he is going to spill the beans on the inner workings of the game. With the controversy over the Kewell deal and other bits of negative media coverage, Moran is a little bit sensitive about the business and the way it's commonly perceived. "It's not unregulated. Why do you think it's Del-Boyish?" FIFA is examining proposals where agents could get a flat fee of 5 per cent from any deal. "We're not opposed to it. Far from it," he adds, giving the kind of look that would persuade any centre forward with an ounce of sense to just give the ball to Moran and run away very fast. He's not a man you'd like to argue with. As the Sports Spread bandwagon rolls on towards the market, it's clear that Moran has changed from being a stopper to a doer. 
