sport football
{  
    November 17 2011 12:16 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/sport/grassroots-27647581.html }
EIRE OG-GREYSTONES Our Intermediates had a stirring victory over Ó Raghallaigh of Louth in the Leinster Intermediate Championship in Drogheda on Sunday last and as a result they take on St. Brigids of Offaly in Aughrim this Sabbath at 2.30pm. The game had originally been fixed for Na Clocha Liatha but the venue was changed on the foot of an edict from Comhairle Laighean which ordered that all county games under its aegis be played in county grounds. There was a sense of disappointment in the club on hearing that the game had been moved from Greystones. It had been hoped that a match with such a high profile might have attracted a few more locals to view this fine bunch of Greystones athletes - all natives - in action in a sport which affords them ample opportunities to showcase their athleticism and their many ball skills. Is olc an gaoth etc., there is always a bright side to every story and in this instance it took Patsy Vickers to point it out. He smilingly remarked on hearing of the changed venue "at least it saves us (one doubts that Patsy himself was included in this 'us') the bother of having to make sandwiches! To have reached the semi-final of this prestigious competition must bring a great sense of achievement to the team and mentors. However it is obvious that being in this 'bonus territory' - the holy grail was of course the County Championship - does not now satisfy the squad's ambitions. They have returned to training with a renewed vigour and there is a palpable intent among the players to go that further step. While Offaly's history in football would caution against complacency, the Greystones lads' display against the Louth champions, winners over their counterparts in Meath, in the quarter-final would suggest that a win on Sunday is not a delusional goal. An RTE newsroom personality speaking of a colleague described him as being a great sportsman; evidence, he was a keen follower of Man U. Everyone to his/her definition but methinks that the journalist here was confusing sport with entertainment. It disappoints that many sports followers are of the same genre, trapped in the thrall of these hype-created myths of professional 'sports' which invest players with Cuchulainnesque qualities and whose primary purpose is to maximise TV revenue. As a result they are blind to the merits of local sporting contests which lack nothing of what is soul-stirring and entertaining in sport. Sunday's game between two teams racy of their neighbourhoods - no talk of franchises here - and of proven ability has the potential to be an authentic and exciting sporting occasion. The Greystones lads have trained hard and battled hard to get to where they are. Further, they take pride in the jersey - a cliché, but nevertheless true - and are sure to give a very committed performance. The team boasts some very skilful players so the entertainment factor is likely to be high. They are very deserving of your support. Bí ann má's féidir leat. Cinnte bainfidh tú taitneamh as an gcluiche. The quarter-final score was 1-6 to 0-7 in Éire Óg's favour. The low scoring can be attributed to a number of factors viz. a pitch rendered gluelike by recent heavy rains, staunch defending by both sets of backs and by off-target shooting in which the seasiders were far from blameless. Éire Óg's combination play was excellent and often had the ball travelling from deep in defence to advantageous positions near the opponents' goals. Unfortunately, there were many instances in which our scoring efforts did not match our approach work. The Éire Óg goal, however, was one of those times in which these aspects of play came together effectively. Jack Tanner bursting forth, as was his spectacular wont throughout the match, from his corner back position found Gino Fusciardi with a pinpoint kickpass and Gino in his turn gave the ball a full-forward-friendly trajectory. It was collected by converted hurler Billy Cuddihy who made no mistake. IOMÁINT At the time of writing it appears likely that some Éire Óg followers will be facing a logistical problem on Sunday. The minor hurlers are scheduled to play the Shield Final around lunchtime in Arklow and it is going to be difficult for supporters to get to Aughrim in time for the football game. The team was demoted to this subsidiary competition by virtue of its defeat by Bray Emmets in the Minor A semi-final. A defeat about which no one in the Éire Óg camp should be at all despondent. In fact, the team and its mentors should feel hugely proud of, and take great satisfaction from, their contribution to what was an epic game of hurling. The final score, 0-11 to 0-10, truly reflects the exciting nature of the contest, a ding-dong battle with now one team, now the other, with its nose a whisker in front. The game was level with 2 minutes to go but unfortunately in the welter that followed we were outscored 2 to 1 and Emmets were on their way to their 3rd final in a row. This is a very young Éire Óg squad with 10 of its players underage next year. Indeed 4 are under 16. So they can look forward with optimism to the 2012 season. James Smullen, Andrew Walsh and Seán Hughes formed a very solid full-back line with Andrew being very effective in curbing Emmet's most dangerous forward Mikie Lee. The half-back line of Eoin Keddy, Anto Byrne and Josh Campbell did an excellent job of curtailing the menace of a strong Emmets half-forward line. James "Pooch" Cranley scored 3 points from play and was directly responsible for a few more when fouled in positions from which free-taker Oliver Nolan (0-5) scored. The Bray management saw James as such a threat that they double marked him in the 2nd half. LOTTO The numbers drawn on Monday 7th were 4, 6, 9 and 23. BRAY EMMETS It was a busy weekend for Bray Emmet's with the AGM held on Friday night in the Clubhouse and the 2011 Dinner Dance taking place on Saturday evening. At the AGM four new members of the management committee were elected as follows Patrick Wogan - Development Officer, Anne Healy - PRO, John Mcmahon - Juvenile Chairman and Tony Mcloughlin - Children's Officer. We would like to say thank you to Anne Longmore, Niall Mccarthy and Gerard Murphy who stood down from the management committee this year for their hard work and dedication to Bray Emmet's. Our Club secretary Vincent Duffy produced a year book for the AGM with contributions from members of the Management Committee and each team providing a brief analysis on the previous 12 months. On Saturday evening the annual Dinner Dance was well attended by coaches, players and parents. Michael Murphy Wicklow County Secretary was in attendance and gave a speech following the opening address by our Chairperson Frances Stephenson. This was followed on by the player of the year awards which were as follows: Senior Adult Men's Football - Paul O'keefe; Senior Adult Ladies Football-síobhan Egan; Junior A Football - Liam Mcgraynor; Junior B Football - Garrett Crowley; Senior Hurling - Christy Moorehouse; Junior Hurling -Enda Ó Maolmhuaidh Next weekend our Minor Hurlers and Senior Football team are paying important games Senior Football Play-off: We are looking for your support for our men's senior football team next Saturday 19th September in Blessington at 2.30pm as they take on Dunlavin in a vital relegation play-off. Please make the effort to be there and encourage all other members to attend. Minor Hurling Championship Final: Our boy's minor hurlers take on Glenealy in the Minor Hurling Final in Arklow next Sunday 20th November at 2pm. The boys deserve the support of us all as they attempt to win another title for the club. We would ask that you support both teams on the Saturday and Sunday. The GAA foundation course in hurling and Football will be held on the 14th, 16th and 21st November at 8pm in the clubhouse. The club shop is open every Saturday morning from 10 O' clock until 12 O' clock. Amongst the items we stock are Bray Emmet's hoodies, tracksuits, shorts, team shirts, hurley's, slíotars, footballs and helmets and sports bags which are all competitively priced. We also sell gift vouchers which can be used to purchase goods in the shop and tea and coffees is available on Saturdays when the academy is training. A brief roundup of some of the juvenile games played this week The U10 girls were busy over the weekend playing football against our neighbours Cuala at Old Conna on Saturday and camogie against Ballinteer St John's on Sunday afternoon (match report below). The U12 hurling boys played against Naomh Mearnog at their grounds in Portmarnock and came up against an opposition that were physically much stronger than them. Their final hurling game of the season takes place next Saturday against Round Towers Clondalkin in Old Conna. The Under 10 Camogie team played a friendly against Ballinteer St John's Sunday last. Bray and Ballinteer had been the 2 strongest teams in the summer league, so it was fitting to see these two talented groups meeting in a head-to-head. And they did not disappoint. Amy Healy scored three thoroughly deserved Bray goals, with top-scoring Eve Murphy (3-0) and Leah Carroll (1-1) contributing their usual generous tally. Aoife Canavan was another stand-out player on the day, intercepting movements beyond her young years. Finally, equally worthy of plaudits were Róisín Murphy and new-comer, Caoimhe Purcell. Táimid ag traenáil chuile Luan i bpáirc Emmet Bhré ag 7.15pm. Emmet Bhré Under 10 : Amy Butler, Amy Healy (30), Aoife Canavan, Caoimhe Purcell, Eleanor Carroll-hayes, Eva Carey, Eve Murphy (3-0), Laura Butler (1-0), Lauren Healy, Leah Carroll (1-1),Orla Jackson, Róisín Benville, Róisín Murphy, Saoirse Canavan, Síofra Ní Mhidigh, Úna Smirciak. Bainisteoir - Anne Carroll. An Under 10/11 selection played a hurling friendly against Faughs Thursday last. On a particularly mild night, conditions were ideal for 2 well-balanced sides. David Maloney gave a commanding exhibition on his team, with Jack Treacy and Ciarán Mckay also adding grit and backbone to the side. Ronan Mcmahon got the score of the evening for his team. He was supported in the main by the sweet-striking Jamie Baguley and the tidy interceptions of Conor Hardiman. Táimid ag dul ó neart go neart. Emmet Bhré - Andrew O'brien, Ben Kearney, Brian Nesbitt, Cian Lohan, Ciarán Mckay, Conor Hardiman, David Maloney, David Nesbitt, Enda Douglas, Gavin Henderson, Jack Treacy, Jamie Baguley, Michael Timmons, Rian Knox, Ronan Mcmahon, Rory Lambe, Sam Kearney, Seán Mcdonagh. The academy continues training every Saturday morning from 10 until midday and caters for children born in 2006, 2005 and 2004; please feel free to bring you child along any Saturday morning to the 3G pitch. KILCOOLE Juvenile Indoor Hurling and Football: Winter is here and that means its indoor hurling and football time in Kilcoole. This takes place in the sports hall in Coláiste Chraobh Abhann. Due to the popularity of the indoor, we have taken the hall for two nights to accommodate various teams. Details are as follows: Hurling Nursery, catering for 4-6yr olds is on Wednesday 16th from 6:15 to 7:15. Hurling for 7-8 yr olds is also on Wednesday 16th from 7:15 to 8:15pm. Indoor football for 6-8 yr olds is on Thursday 17th from 6:30 to 7:30pm. Lastly, indoor hurling for 9-12yr olds incorporating the 3rd year of the Pat Frawley tournament is on Thursday 17th from 7:30 to 9pm. For updates on the weekly sessions thereafter, please see the Kilcoole GAA facebook page, easily found by visiting www.kilcoolegaa.ie. So far in the Pat Frawley tournament, we have Kilkenny on 9 points, followed by Cork also on 9 points, then Limerick on 7 and Dublin on 5. Thanks to all who helped with the bag packing in Tesco last weekend, your support is much appreciated and will make a big difference to the club. KILCOOLE CAMOGIE Indoor Camogie happens in Colaiste Chraobh Abhann every Tuesday 'til Dec 6 at the following times: Grasshoppers aged 4 - 7: 5.00 - 5.45pm, age 8 -10: 5.30 - 6.30, age 11 and 12: 6.15 to 7.15, age 13: 7.00.- 8.00, age 14, 15 and 16: 7.45 - 8.45. Everybody is welcome to come along and have a go - Equipment provided! Our Annual General Meeting will take place on Monday in Colaiste Chraobh Abhann starting at 7.30 - all members aged over 16 and parents of juvenile players as well as anybody with an interest in the development of Camogie in the greater Kilcoole area is invited to come along. If you have some spare time to become involved in any way, please contact us! We have many opportunities for volunteers to help from Coaching to Fundraising and much besides! Training is available in all areas so why not put Kilcoole Camogie Club on your New Year Resolution List ? Besides, the craic is good! Talking of which...its time again for our Annual Volunteers' Night Out - Friday December 16th is the date and Kilcoole Golf Club is the Venue. Those who have helped us in any way during the year are invited to come along and join us for the evening as a token of the Club's gratitude - without our many, many volunteers, we would not be able to keep the show on the road. We will present the Intermediate Championship medals at this function - an opportunity to see where all the hard work leads! A Night not to be missed! Our Juvenile Presentation Night is also on the way.....more details next week..... Contact us: secretary@kilcoolecamogie.com, www.kilcoolecamogie.com, Kilcoole Camogie Club on Facebook, Sec Tracy 0877518680 
