sport football
{  
    May 04 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27362688.html }
Firies B team lost to Gneeveguilla in the East Kerry Division 1 Junior League in Fossa on the score of 2-6 to 0-7 and play Rathmore on Tuesday, May 3.The County Junior League starts on  Friday night with a home game against Castlegregory.The senior team drew Cordal in the quarter-final of the county junior championship. This is a home venue for Firies.COISTE NA nÓg: Firies B team lost to Gneeveguilla in the East Kerry Division 1 Junior League in Fossa on the score of 2-6 to 0-7 and play Rathmore on Tuesday, May 3. The County Junior League starts on Friday night with a home game against Castlegregory. The senior team drew Cordal in the quarter-final of the county junior championship. This is a home venue for Firies. COISTE NA nÓg: The under 14 team lost by four points to Kilcummin on Saturday evening but can still qualify after playing Kilcummin or Templenoe again. The under 16 team took part in the county blitz at Fossa on Monday. They beat Dr Crokes B but lost to Laune Rangers and Gneeveguilla. MINORS: The postponed minor county league against Ballydonoghue / Asdee is due to be played this Friday at a home venue. LOTTO: The lotto draw took place in Henderson’s on Wednesday, April 27. Numbers drawn were 8, 29, 30. There was no winner. Prizewinners: ?30 each — Lil O’Mahony, Sheans; Ned O’Sullivan, Shrone, Firies; Ann Shanahan, Boulacullane, Farranfore; Jim Lynch, c/o Frank Mahony; Donal O’Donoghue, Killarney. This week’s jackpot is ?1,500 in Sherwood’s, Farranfore on Wednesday, May 4. COMMUNITY GAMES — Girls Soccer u-15: Congratulations to the girls, their coach Edmund Kerrisk and Manager Martina Hoctor on winning gold at the county event on Sunday. They won their two group matches against Spa / Muckross and Duagh / Lyre well and beat Listowel 1-0 in a close final. They now qualify for the Munster finals in Cork in July. GAELIC FOOTBALL u-10: Well done to the boys who played well on Monday, but were not qualifiers on this occasion. Thanks to their trainers Frank Fell and Tony Moloney. PARISH SPORTS NIGHT: The annual sports night was held on Tuesday night. Despite the bad forecast, the rain held off and there was a great turnout. It was good to see so many new parents and children involved. Most of the qualifying races for the county finals were run off and as usual the tiny tots and novelty races were a big hit. Thanks to all those who helped out in any way with the event. Training at Farranfore on Fridays 6.30 to 7.30pm; Castleisland track on Monday at 6.30pm. TAG RUGBY — boys and girls under 11: (Over 8) Training again this Friday, May 7 from 5-6pm in Farranfore Field. ATHLETICS: Congratulations to James Nagle who won five medals at the Munster Junior championships in Cork on Sunday; to Niall Prendiville, who was second in the walk and Arthur Fitzgerald, second in the 3000m. Well done to all the boys and girls who took part and did so well in the county juvenile championships in Castleisland on Monday and Saturday. Thanks to all the coaches and all the parents who came along and helped in different ways. Training continues on Mondays 6.30 to 7.30pm at Castleisland track and Fridays 6.30 to 7.30pm in Farranfore. County senior championships on Sunday next. CARE ASSOCIATION: Grants to improve the security of older people in their homes are now available. These include socially monitored alarm systems, security lighting, window and door locks. For application please telephone Siobhan McCarthy at 9764353. DEATH: Sympathy is extended to Josephine Barton, Dromcore on the death of her step-mother. LADIES FOOTBALL: Well done to our u-14 girls who are having a very good season in Division 2 with two wins against Rathmore and Southern Gaels B. Training continues on Thursday in Farranfore from 6 to 7pm for all ages. BALLYHAR DYN AFC: Numbers drawn in the lotto on Monday, April 25 were 14, 17, 21, 23. There was no winner. Prizewinners: ?25 each — Daniel Cooper, Ballyhar; Mike Griffin, Firies; Paddy Bradley, c/o Ger Coffey; Honor Doyle, Woodlawn Park, Killarney and Uno Groves, Rusheen. The next draw will take place on Monday, May 9 at the Shanty Bar for a jackpot of ?4,300. Ballyhar Dynamos lost 2-0 to Tralee Dynamos. Ballyhar Youths beat Killarney Celtic 1-0 with a goal by John Foley. This was a play-off game and as a result of this fine win Ballyhar are now in the league quarter-finals. MASS: There is a get well Mass for Murt Scott on Thursday evening at 8pm in Ballyhar Church. FOSSA LOTTO 1, 2, 14 and 24. No jackpot winner Winners of ?50 Mary Cronin, Gortaree Aghadoe, Kaevin Foley Crohane, Lily Tuite Carlow and Fr Harrington PP Fossa. Winners of ?25 Kevin McCarthy Fossa, Mike Breen Aghadoe Flats, Bernie and Breda Kissane Barleymount and Marian Moroney Ennis. This week's lotto will be ?4100. MINOR COUNTY LEAGUE: Skellig Ranger 2-06 Fossa 0-14. Fossa came out on top in a hard fought game on Friday evening. This was a very entertaining game with Fossa opening up a 7 point to 3 advantage before Scellig were awarding a dubious goal with the umpire stating that Paul Lynch had stepped behind the goal line with the ball, Paul recovered well to give a brilliant display for the rest of the evening proving he has character as well as skill. The Half time score was Fossa 0-8 Scellig 1-3 with the point coming from Johnny Russell (1), Robert Foley (3) Ger Curran (1) and Jimmy Falvey (3). The second have saw point for point until with 8 minutes on the clock Scellig broke through for a goal to give then a one point lead, 2-6 to 0-11 with Jimmy Falvey scoring the 3 point for Fossa. Another team might have faded But this Fossa team showed great heart and determination to kick three unanswerable points, one from Robert Foley and two more from the left boot of Jimmy Falvey, who again on the night showed what a class player he is. Our younger players like Robert Foley and Kevin O'Sullivan were immense, and surely if they can keep playing football like this, honours will follow. David Donavan, the captain was again outstanding in the fullback line and played out of his skin from start to finish, he was well assisted by Dennis Kissane. Midfield had their hand full with very talented and energetic Scellig players, But Colin Davidson and Ger Curran shades the verdict. Barry O'Brien on the wing got injured and was replaced at half-time by Donal Coffey and again these two under 16 players, were solid throught-out. Johnny Russell had hard luck for a goal midway throught the second half and he played well throught out, He was well supported by Jack Coffey and David Blennerhassett. Frank Junior McCarty played his now customary stormer at centre back !!! If Fossa win their last and yet to be arranged final game they will be in the county semi-final, all support will be welcome as umpires and linesmen are now very important as was seen in this game! As a man once said "a good umpire is better than a bad corner forward". UNDER 12 COUNTY LEAGUE: Firies 2-6 Fossa 4-18 Fossa beat an under strength Firies team who were missing 5 player on the night due to the holiday week-end, in a wet and soggy pitch on Sunday. Fossa raced in a big half lead and never looked in danger. Team: D Cronin, J Cronin, N Prendeville, D Lucey, D Palmer, B Walsh, M O'Shea (0-1) Sheehan (0-1) D Osterloh, D McCarty (0-1) Ena Greeley (0-3) A McFarlane (0-2) T O'Shea (3-9) F O'Shea (0-1) E Coffey (1-0) Subs on for the second half D Rice, D Coffey and E O'Keefe All the Under 12 team and management wish Daniel O'Keefe a speedy recovery from his injury. SCOR NA PAISTI: Congratulations to Stephen Dennehy (Knoppoge), representing Fossa NS, who qualified in the recitation for the County Finals of Scor na Paisti on Friday night last. This final takes place at the Gleneagle on Sunday next May 8th at 2.00pm. FOSSA LADIES CLUB: The Fossa ladies club next meeting is Tuesday 10th May in the Fossa Clubhouse at 8pm. FOSSA COMMUNITY GAMES NEWS: Girls Under 15 Soccer: Certificate of merit for Fossa Under 15 girls in Community Games Soccer. Fossa Under 15 girls competed in the County Community Games Soccer at Mastergeeha on Sunday for the first time. Fossa were drawn in a strong group with Oakpark, Kilcummin, and Listowel. In their first game Fossa got off to a good start against Oakpark, but in spite of dominating play they failed to score, and the game ended in an 0-0 draw. The next game was against Kilcummin. This proved to be a close encounter, with Amy Moriarty netting a fine first half goal which gave the team great confidence. Fossa held on to their lead for a fine victory. Fossa's final group match was against Listowel, in which they played their best Soccer in a tough encounter. Listowel manage to get the only goal of this game which saw them qualify for the Gold Medal match. Fossa then met Spa for the bronze medal positions. After three hard matches our girls were in with a great chance of victory in a match in which they had the most possession. But Spa managed to score, and so the Fossa Girls finished in fourth place and winners of the certificates. Many of the team are under age again next year so the future looks bright for this talented group of girls. All the panel members played their hearts out with Niamh O Sullivan, Shaunagh O Connell, Tracy Coffey, Shauna Doherty and Brid Kissane particularly to the fore in all four matches. Panel: Katie Hennigan (Lackabane), Shaunagh O Connell (Curragh), Aisling McCarthy (Ards), Shauna Doherty (Gortroe), Brid Kissane (Pallas), Niamh O Sullivan (Knockasarnett), Tracey Coffey (Aughacurreen), Chloe Enright (Curragh), Amy Moriarty (Lackabane), Julie Cronin (Curragh), Michelle O Keeffe (Dromin), Anita Coffey (Knockasarnett), Aoife Coffey (Knockasarnett), Rebecca O Sullivan (Dromin). A big word of thanks to coach Eddie Sheehy who put in a great amount of work in preparing the team. Under 10 Mixed Gaelic Football: Our under 10 mixed Gaelic Football team took part in the Community Games Pool A at Dr Crokes pitch On Bank Holiday Monday. Our group was Glenbeigh/Glencar, Marian Park Tralee, and Dingle. In our first game we defeated Glenbeigh/Glencar quite easily, our second game against Marian Park was much tougher but we managed to scrape through by 4 points. Two wins out of two and now we were up against a very strong Dingle outfit with the winners qualifying for the County finals on Friday week. We fought valiantly but were no match for this Dingle outfit who were comfortable winners. Our panel was David Clifford (Aughaclaimore), Killian Walker Malone (Fossa), Diarmuid Burke (Gortroe), Adrian Cronin (Gortaree), Karen O Leary (Cahir), Evan Brosnan (Knockasarnett), Daniel O Connell (Curragh), Shane Cronin (Curragh), Brian Myers (Barleymount), Colm Walsh (Curragh ), Alex Graham (Barleymount), Padraig Devane (Nunstown), Padraig Clifford (Aughaclaimore), Sandor O Sullivan (Fossa), Peter McEnery (Barleymount), Maurice Prendiville (Cahir), Russel O Brien (Lackabane), Jonathon Coffey (Aughacurreen), Matthew Rennie (Crohane), and Padraig O Donoghue (Aughaclaimore). Congratullations to the lads and mentors Dermot Clifford, Billy O Leary, John O Neill, and Liam Walsh. If you need any item included in these notes please contact local correspondant Michelle Cooper Galvin 064 37707 or email coopergalvin@eircom.net The lotto draw took place in the Ross Inn on Monday night. Congratulations to Brian Cahill of Rossbeigh, who won the Jackpot of ?2,600. Next weeks draw will take place in the Towers Hotel, Jackpot is ?1,500. The annual membership subscription is now overdue, all members are asked pay this before 16th May, membership subscriptions will not be accepted after this date. GAA: Glenbeigh/Glencar drew with Beaufort 5pts each in the Mid-Kerry b C'ship. This was a poor game and lacked any flair & commitment. We now face L Rangers this week in the final game. The minors were defeated by Foilmore in an entertaining game. Possession was even throughout but Foilmore got vital goals to secure victory. Fixtures: Co Junior League (B). Glenbeigh/Glencar "v" Keel on Friday May 6th @ 7.30 pm in Keel. Co Junior League (B). Glenbeigh/Glencar "v" Tousist on Friday May 13th @ 7.30 pm in Glenbeigh. Seniors will play Duagh in the Q-Final of Co Junior C'ship on 14/15 May. COMMUNITY GAMES: Well done to all the boys and girls who took part in the Community Games u-10 mixed football at the Dr Crokes pitch in Killarney on Monday, May 2. Hope you enjoyed the day boys and girls. Also a big thank you to all the parents and supporters who travelled on the day, your help was greatly appreciated. The Community Games athletics will be held at the Glenbeigh GAA pitch on Friday, May 13 at 7pm sharp. All qualifiers will be eligible to go forward to the county finals, which will be held in Tralee on June 19 and 20. Remember boys and girls you may only qualify in one distance race so be sure to pick your strongest distance. Age groups range from u-8 to u-16 and kids bring your parents along because if the moms and dads are feeling fit on the day we may also have a race specially for them. BINGO: Bingo on Wednesday at 8.30pm in the GAA Pavilion. The jackpot is ?750. COMMUNITY GAMES: Sports Day - Glenflesk enjoyed good sunshine for the Community Games sports on Bank Holiday Monday. The programme was, as usual, run off with considerable efficiency under the command of Michael O'Keeffe. Although the numbers were down on previous years the standard was good. In all over 50 athletes were selected to participate in the County Championship on 18 June 2005. There was a new winner to the mothers' race. Congratulations to Siobhan Dowling. The fathers' race was cancelled as the dads were not up to it after the long week-end. Well done to Barraduff School on winning the schools' relay for the second consecutive year. Barraduff has come on a lot in these activities in recent years. Please note that traing for the County Championships will start on Sunday 15 May at 12.00 Noon. Lotto - Next Lotto Draw to be held @ Loo Bridge on Sunday the 8/5/05, Jackpot ?3,000. Yearly Lotto subscriptions - Yearly Lotto subscriptions have been posted to your homes. Our fortnightly draw provides continuous income to the club and offers valuable prizes to subscribers. The jackpot starts at ?2,000 and if not won rises by ?200 each draw. Annual tickets are available at ?50, where you choose 4 numbers for the year and, include one free draw. Contact Jimmy Kelly or Jimmy O’Shea or any club officer in order to subscribe. East Kerry Senior League Final - Our seniors were up against Kilcummin on the Bank Holiday Friday, at the Fitzgerald Stadium. This was another tough assignment against Division 1 opposition. This was a keenly contested match with both teams guilty of missed chances. Glenflesk were given a great boost when John B O’Donoghue calmly put the ball in the net from a penalty in the first half. Also in goals Mike Guerin played well pulling off 2 great saves. Glenflesk were pushing on hard right to the end but could not get the break through they deserved. This was a much-improved display from their away assignment last week against St Mary’s and who were also without the services of Seamus Moynihan. Best for Glenflesk were M Guerin, Ml O’Donoghue, O Favier & D McCarthy. Full Time Glenflesk 1.06 Kilcummin 1.08 Team: Glenflesk; Mike Guerin, Paul Favier, John C O’Donoghue, Gerry Kennedy, Gary O’Donoghue, Ml O’Donoghue, Ollie Favier, Eric O’Donoghue, Damien McCarthy, Denis Dennehy, D J O’Donoghue, Enda Favier, Mike O’Shea, John B O’Donoghue, Donal Herlihy. Subs: Donach Dennehy for G Kennedy, Eamon Counihan for E Favier County League: The Seniors are at home to John Mitchels on the weekend of 22/5/05 Club Collection - Club Parish Collection took place over the Bank Holiday Weekend. The club would wish to thank all persons who helped with these collections, and all those who supported the club. East Kerry Junior League – Division 2 - We are grouped against Legion, Kilcummin, Listry & Fossa. Round 3 away to Legion on Tuesday the 3/5/05 @ 7.30pm and Round 4 at home to Kilcummin on Tuesday the 10/5/05 @ 7.30pm. County Junior League - The County Junior league begins away to Renard on Saturday nite the 7/5/05 @ 7pm. Minor County League 2005 - We are away to Renard on Friday the 6/5/05 at Beaufort @ 7.30pm, this game was cancelled from last week. Under 16 2005 - Under 16’s East Kerry Division 2, played Gneeveguilla at home on Wednesday the 27/4/05, final result Glenflesk 2.03 Gneeveguilla 1.04. They now play Currow in the final on Wed 4/5/05 @ 6.30pm @ the Fitzgerald Stadium. Under 14 County League 2005 - Our under 14’s play their league semi final against Castlegregory on Mon the 9/5/05. Under 12 County League 2005 - We played Cromane/Listry on Wed the 27/4/05, final result Glenflesk 2.10 Cromane/Listry 3.07, a Draw. We are away to Milltown/Castlemaine on Sun the 8/5/05 @ 7pm. We are grouped with Ballymac, Currow, Cromane/Listry, Milltown/Castlemaine, and Rathmore. Note: Parents should check with team trainers to verify all underage fixtures. Coiste nOg - Underage Training - Training for Under Age continues on Friday nights for Boys Under 8 and Boys Under 10. Girls training on Friday night. The club would like to thank Seamus Moynihan & Sean O’Sullivan who participated in training our under age boys & girls on Fri 22/4/05. Scor Na Bpaisti - The County Final is being held at the Gleneagle Hotel on Sunday May the 8th Kerry Coaching & Games Development Committee - On Friday 22nd of April venue Fires GAA Grounds at 7pm (Fun Games/Go Games for Family) and Monday the 9th of May at Dr Crokes GAA Grounds at 7pm (Practical Drills (Advanced Drills) for Football). Course duration 2 hours. Any persons involved with our underage teams are invited to attend theses courses. The club will refund course Fee of ?10. Belfast Marathon - Congratulations to Jimmy Kelly, Derry Healy, Donal Brosnan and Mike Nash, all from Headford who completed the Belfast City Marathon of 26.3 miles on the Bank Holiday Monday. THE big news this week is that our club are top class in Kerry, after the week end at Riocht Track, our lads gave everything to these c’ships. Both athletes, trainers and parents and came out 187 to 186 winners over Tralee Harriers with Riocht 3rd on 153 pts. We brought home the cup, and we are over the moon. Well done to all. No winner of our lotto on Friday, April 29. Numbers 3, 7, 15, 29. Lucky dips ?50 Martina O’Sullivan, The Village, Eddie McSweeney, Knocknagree, ?30 each Norina Fleming, The Village, Mary O’Donoghue, Rathbeg and Aine Herlihy, Park. No bonus winner, 5, 11, 23 and 29, were the numbers. Lotto ?6000 next week with ?1,000 bonus. Note athletic fixtures this Thursday, Gneeveguilla GAA Grounds, community games sports 6pm, Friday,May 6, E Kerry Western Duhallow School Sports in Gneeveguilla 5pm. Sunday, May 8, Kerry senior T and F, Riocht Track. Sunday, May 15, Gneeveguilla Open Sports, Riocht Track. Results of Co sports last week end in sports section, under athletics. GAA: E Kerry u21 final, Gneeveguilla 0-12, Rathmore 0-12. Gneeveguilla and Rathmore finished level, after a close encounter in Fitzgerald Stadium on Saturday. See the Kerryman sports section for full match report. No date for replay at present. EK JUNIOR LEAGUE: Gneeveguilla have 2 wins from 3 games after an away win over Firies in Rd 3. Final score Gneeveguilla 2-7, Firies 0-7. Rd 4 was fixed for Tuesday evening this week v Rathmore. The Co junior league starts this Friday. Rd 2 Legion v Gneeveguilla at 7.30. MINOR CO LEAGUE: Ballymac 3-14, Gneeveguilla 3-10. U16 EK semi final, Glenflesk 2-4 v Gneeveguilla 1-4. Gneeveguilla were defeated by Glenflesk last Wednesday. Gneeveguilla fought hard throughout, but a stronger Glenflesk team got the vital goals. U16 BLITZ: There was a 7 a side blitz, held in Fossa on Monday. Gneeveguilla were paired with Dr Crokes, Firies and Laune Rangers. Dr Crokes defeated Gneeveguilla in Rd 1. Best for Gneeveguilla were Tim O’Keeffe, Padraig O’Leary, Cormac Dillane, George Dobbins and Patrick Riordan. In Rd 2 Gneeveguilla came from behind to defeat Firies. Goals from D Murphy, M Sheehan and P O’Leary in the 2nd half meant that Gneeveguilla finished 2 pts in front. Best were M Sheehan, D Dillane, M Moynihan, D Murphy and P O’Connor. In Rd 3, Laune Rangers proved too strong for Gneeveguilla, who had great performances from Padraig O’Connor, Mark Sheehan, Patrick Riordan, Donal Murphy, T O’Keeffe, M Moynihan, and C Dillane. U16 CO LEAGUE: Ardfert v Gneeveguilla on Monday, May 9 in Ardfert in the final round of the league, at 7.30. U12 CO LEAGUE: Gneeveguilla v Firies on Sunday, May 8 at 7pm in Gneeveguilla. GAA LOTTO: Nos drawn 1, 6, 14, 15. Jackpot ?2,600, no winner. 5 x ?40 lucky dip, Donal Mahony, Village, Eugene O’Leary, Leam, Pa Brosnan, Gattabawn, Mike O’Mahony, East End, Rathmore, Shane Breen, Gortnaprocess. Jackpot next Sunday night ?2,800. LADIES FOOTBALL: Best of luck to Amy Murphy and the Kerry u16 team, who are in action on Saturday in the Munster final. THE AGM will take place in St Patricks Hall, Listowel on Sunday, June 19 at 2.30pm. Please contact Mary Caplice at 06821160 regarding numbers, ring evenings only. The make and model at the Earl of Desmond on Sunday, May 29. Garments at the Hotel at 12 noon for judging, modelling beings at 3pm. Prizes will be awarded in all categories, plus prize for the Guild with the highest number of marks. Entry fee ?2 per team. Will guilds let Bridie Goodwin know if they are entering 7139175. Kingdom Co Fair will take place on Saturday, and Sunday, May 14/15. Anyone entering for the gold leaf trophy contact Bridie. Congrats to the Spa/Fenit Guild on winning the National final of the singing competition Roscrea on April 16. The entries for the pitch and putt competition to the sports and leisure officer, Breda Quirke, Camp Guild asap, Tel 0667130353. National final in Tullamore, Co Offaly on June 8. Thank you to the 3 teachers, Breda Brown, Deirdre Lynch, Nora McDade who ran a workshop each in their own field of crafts, a great day was had by all. The classes were filled and each person came away with some work, which were a credit to everyone. Dont forget the mini marathon on Sunday for breast cancer. See your there. Keel U21’s played Beaufort last Saturday evening at the local pitch in the Mid Kerry U21 Championship semi-final and after a very exciting encounter emerged victorious on the score of 0-12 to 0-11.Keel were guilty of some missed chances in the first half with the result that they only lead at the short whistle by 0-05 to 0-04.In the second half Beaufort played much better and after surging in to a 3 point lead looked more likely to win this encounter.Keel began to drive on and with some great play eventually overhauled the visitors and did just enough to qualify to meet Milltown/Castlemaine in the final.Keel had their best performers in David Flaherty,Aaron Cahillane,Gary Sayers and particularly Liam Sheehan who really stood up to the plate toward game end to secure victory.Final date will be announced. Keel minors have a back fixture to complete with Legion this week but at the time of print no date had been set. LOTTO RESULTS. There was no jackpot winner of the Keel Lotto draw last Tuesday night 26th held in Murphys Bar.The jackpot was ?3330.The following won the consolation prizes. ?35 Maureen & Kathleen Costello, Farnes. ?35 Meadbh Sheahan, Sunhill, Killorglin. ?15 Laure Prendergast, Boolteens. ?15 Eileen O Connor. ?15 Kitty Hanafin,c/o Stop and Shop. Next draw will be Tuesday 3rd May and will be held in The Anvil Bar at 10.00pm. BORD NA n’OG. The U12 team were defeated by Cordal last Sunday evening in Keel and have their next game at home to Castlegregory next Sunday evening @7.00pm. The U14 team are due to play Killorglin away this Wednesday evening @7.30pm in the Mid Kerry U14 Championship. The U16 team were involved in 7 a side blitz on the bank holiday Monday and won two games and lost one match. The U8/U10 training will commence this Thursday evening @ 6.00pm and all boys and girls aged from 6 to 10 from the Keel/Castlemaine parish are very welcome to attend. FUNDRAISING RAFFLE. Minister for Arts,Tourism and Sport John O Donoghue will officially launch this Fundraising drive on Friday 13th of May @9.30pm in Murphys Bar. SYMPATHIES. Our sympathies are extended Dan Prendergast and his family on the the recent death of his sister Margaret Cronin from Boulakillane,Farranfore and also to the family of Kate Shea Gortaleen who also recently passed away.May they both rest in peace. The Abbey Theatre will host a new production called The Race of the Ark Tatoo in the Iveragh region in May. The show stars well know actor David Heap in this one man show. This show has received great reviews countywide.This is a unique oppertunity to see the Natioanl theatre of Ireland perform in Kerry. The show kicks off on Valentia Island for 2 nights- May 7th and 8th. then travels to Caitins in Kells on Monday May 9th and finishes its run in Cathardaniel on Tuesday May 10th. Tickets are priced at ?12 and ?10 and further details can be got by contacting Priscilla Nic Chonmara@ 066 9474888 the first half they matched the winners until half-time with the score 1-2 to 0-4 for Kenmare.The second half saw Ballyduff the better team both in hurling and in fitness.This does not augur well for our next game which is on this Wednesday night ,May 4th,against Kilgarvan in the Fr.Breen Park.The team is without three key players at the moment,Sean Regan and D.J. Brennan injured and Patrick Randles who is in Sligo. The scorers:P. O'Shea0-1,T.P. O' Connor0-1,S. MacGearailt0-1,G.Morgan0-1.Team:T.Carey ,C.Daly,C.Calanan,M.Fitzgerald,M.O Suilleabhain,G.Morgan,P.O'Shea,J.Wharton,S.Ryan,J.Maye,T.P.O'Connor,V.Power,Declan O'Sullivan,S.MacGearalit,S.Dalton.Subs:N.McCarthy. The most redeeming feature of the night was the turnout of players.22 were togged and willing to line out for Kenmare. Football.The senior team got some consolation in winning the Eat Kerry League,Div.2 over Cordal ,who eliminated them from the Junior Championship the Saturday previously.This final played in Fitzgerald Stadium produced some nice football on a lovely evening.It proved that without the out of bounds Paul O'Connor nearly all the forwards shared in the good tally of 1-17.Cordal got 11 points.Some of these were excellent long-range ones.Of our forwards Liam Lynch had a great game with Hughie Murphy ,Shannon Ryan and Sean O'Leary showing well.Johnny O'Sullivan won at centrefield and of the backs Enda Crowley ,E.Hussey and Patrick Dwyer were best.Tom Carey was rarely tested but he made a first class save at a vital time in the second half.It was a sporting game well refereed by Paudie O'Sullivan ,Firies. Scores:Hughie Murphy0-5,Liam Lynch0-3,Sean Murphy 0-1,E.Crowley0-1,S.Ryan 0-1,S.O'Leary 0-5(0-3F).The only goal was scored by youngest player Keith O'Sullivan in his first game,thanks to good work by Hughie Murphy. The East Kerry Cup was presented to Johnny O'Sullivan,Capt. by Mr.Jerh Gallivan ,Chairman East Kerry Board. Dressage League: What a fun filled and exciting day the members had at Eagle Lodge on Saturday last, where Mary Bradley had prepared an excellent venue for the final leg of the League. When the nerves were on the back burner we were able to enjoy the glorious heat and sunshine. The results of the final day were as follows: Walk/ Trot Test1st -Eileen Nolan; 2nd Julie Baker; 3rd Carolann O'Sullivan; Joint 4th -Noreen Healy & Audrey Quirke; 5th Marian Collins; 6th Jackie Higgins League placings for this test were as follows:1st -Eileen Nolan; 2nd Julie Baker; 3rd Noreen Healy;4th Ann Garcyzinski; 5th Jackie Higgins; 6th Marian Collins; 7th Carolann O'Sullivan;8th Audrey Quirke. Preliminary Test 4: the final day results:1st -Karen Smith; 2nd-Noreen Healy; 3rd-Eileen Nolan; 4th Carolann O'Sullivan; 5th Julie Baker.League placings; 1st Karen Smith; Joint 2nd -Julie Baker & Eileen Nolan; 3rd-Noreen Healy; 4th Ann Garcyzinski; 5th Carolann O'Sullivan. Test 10: the final day results:1st Ide Sletten; 2nd -Mary Concannon; 3rd- Marji Cunningham; League placings: 1st -Ide Sletten ; 2nd Mary Concannon; 3rd Marji Cunningham; 4th Emma Bowles Novice Test 29; the final day results: 1st -Ide Sletten; 2nd Mary Concannon.League placings: 1st Ide Sletten, 2nd Mary Concannon Thanks to Liam Moloney, the judge on the day and to Sue Carr who assisted him in keeping track of all the competitors. Many thanks also to those who provided liquid and solid refreshments on the day. Jamie Oliver beware-there are budding chefs in the making!! Many thanks to all those hands who helped in preparing what was a tremendous setting on the day. Congratulations and well done to each and all for taking part.Hack; Inch has been selected for a hack on June 12th, meeting at Inch at 10.30. Kingdom County Fair: Have you marked your diary for the 15th May? Pencil in the Hunt Chase at 2o'clock. SJ League: The club league begins on Saturday 7th May and Tuesday 10th at Eagle Lodge. This will run for five weeks so no time to rest on your laurels! 
