sport football
{  
    December 30 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/soccer/dawn-of-the-beane-counter-26341547.html }
The mid-season transfer window is the last chance to change the direction of a season: buy the right players and a club can make upwards of €68m by avoiding relegation or gaining promotion. A manager's career can be made or saved. Choosing players on the transfer market is more art than science and seven-figure sums are still wagered on little more than a hunch, or a tip from a scout. Worse still, the short span of the buying period means agents are able to ratchet up the fees, and the anxiety levels. These factors make it easier to make a bad decision then a good one over the next month. So how does a manager make a judgment call? "I trust my eyes," Alex Ferguson said recently. But a new generation of managers are seeking a more objective analysis. To this end, some have beaten a path to Billy Beane's door. Beane is the general manager of the Oakland A's baseball team and one of the most successful coaches in American sport. His statistics-based approach to talent scouting has influenced high-profile names in English football such as Sam Allardyce, Aidy Boothroyd and Tottenham director of football Damien Comolli. In London last month, Beane gave a presentation of his ideas to a panel at the Future of Football conference in London. Among those who listened attentively to his views on the future of talent scouting in English football were Ferguson, Allardyce, Martin O'Neill, Alan Curbishley, Howard Wilkinson and the recently departed Fulham manager, Lawrie Sanchez. In the audience were more club managers, owners and agents. Beane is a keen student and fan of Premier League football, often staying up through the night to watch games on TV. His passion for football extends beyond that of an observer. Beane is currently overseeing operations for the San Jose Earthquakes, who will rejoin Major League Soccer from 2008, following a takeover of the club by the Oakland A's management. Beane accepts, though, that football is structurally worlds away from how American sports operate. "European football is a challenge when it comes to measurement because you have players from all over the world, where you can't collect data. It is a fluid sport that doesn't stop and start. But that said, there are numbers that matter." There is a fast-growing industry of analysts seeking to do for football what Beane has done for baseball. ProZone, Opta and Sports Universal are the most prominent, but the technology is still in its early stages. The collection of raw data remains labour-intensive -- ProZone, for example, send films of matches to India where players' movements are manually tracked. For Beane, though, these statistics provide a potentially crucial insight into the objective analysis of players. Figures for distance covered, tackles made, successful passes, shots, sprints and so on can be benchmarked against the Premier League average. Many clubs are making use of it: about 20 in the top two divisions employ ProZone analysts. Allardyce, in particular, embraced the ProZone system at both Bolton and Newcastle. Statistics are the name of Beane's game, but the basis of his philosophy is money. When Watford were last in the Premier League their wage bill was approximately 20 times lower than Chelsea's, and results on the pitch showed. Beane's philosophy challenges all that. His Oakland A's have one of the best records in Major League Baseball, and they also have the smallest wage bill. The inequality in income between MLB teams makes the Premier League look like a workers' collective: the Yankees have just signed Alex Rodriguez, the A-Rod, on a $275m, 10-year contract. "What A-Rod makes a year is around a third of our total wage bill," says Beane. He has a simple-sounding philosophy: pay for future performance, not past performance. The practical application of this is complex, and is based on creating a bank of statistical data on each player. His approach has made him the acknowledged king of the draft, baseball's equivalent of the transfer market. "We can't do what the Yankees do," says Beane, talking about competing for the best players. "The economics tell us we'll lose." There are, though, some things small clubs can do that their bigger rivals cannot. "They (the Yankees) have to go big because their fans expect them to. They have to pay the big salaries for the big stars." His conversation is peppered with phrases more familiar in Wall Street than White Hart Lane. "Wall Street was always the most innovative place because they had the most to gain," he says. "They had immediate satisfaction from their decision-making, sometimes in a minute, sometimes at the end of the day, and that's the greatest incentive to do things right or for change. Sport has been left behind." In particular he refers to the concept of 'arbitrage', a banking term describing the mispricing of a commodity. His skill is in exploiting these 'value gaps'. Often he says the transfer market is wrong, and the price of a player reflects a skill that is overrated. By using different measures of performance than the media or coaches, Beane has succeeded in the ultimate transfer window endgame: buy low, sell high. He hit the headlines following the publication of the book Moneyball three years ago, a surprise hit written by Michael Lewis. This tracked Beane and his staff over the 2002 season, when the Oakland A's were second to the New York Yankees in number of wins. Beane's big idea was to emphasise the importance of on-base percentage, which suggested that not getting out was more important than hitting home runs. "In sport, we too often reward the lucky strike and overvalue randomness," he says. This went against all conventional wisdom and undermined the value of the game's great sluggers. Beane could buy suitable players, underrated by the market, cheaply. He put a premium on defence, enabling him to avoid paying big bucks. The success of the A's in 2002 and beyond was achieved with a wage bill of $41m, while the Yankees forked out more than $100m. The exposure that followed Moneyball means Beane's progress since has been closely monitored. Other teams are using the same methods so Beane has had to go further in snapping up bargains. "When the rest zig, we zag," he says. The Oakland A's post-season record has been less successful because, say critics, he cannot rely on probability. To reach the play-offs, a team must win around 90 regular-season games. In the knock-out games randomness and unexpected brilliance are rewarded above consistency. Furthermore, say Beane's detractors, his teams are boring and he has replaced the 'romance of the gut feel' with cold analysis, a criticism familiar to Allardyce and Boothroyd. Beane feels he is misunderstood. "Everyone is an expert in the business of sport to an extent and that brings the wisdom of the crowd. Lots of opinions can give you the right answer but when you quantify things you also dehumanise, and that's always discomforting." Beane predicts that the business of sport will come to influence the way clubs are run, including the trading of players. He has noted the way baseball and other US sports clubs are changing, starting in the boardroom, and he has a message for his counterparts in football. "The number of young general managers who are coming into the game seem to be more cut from that (business rather than sport) cloth and once again it's hard to see it turning around and going the other way. I'm one of two ex-players who are now running teams and that wasn't the case 10 or 15 years ago, there was a far higher percentage than that." For a new generation of team owners, running sports teams is more appealing than trading stocks and shares. "Historically they would have gone to Goldman Sachs for four years, then hedge funds and private equities. Now they are getting into sport and they are viewing it in a very analytical way. It's their nature but it's good and hopefully becomes more efficient." As American owners become a fixture in the Premier League, the money spent in the transfer window will be under ever greater scrutiny. More art than science? That is one ratio that is liable to change. Observer 
