sport football
{ Cliona Foley 
    December 31 2014 08:55 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/2014s-best-quotes-joe-brolly-what-do-you-think-of-that-30874537.html }
"Whatever it is, an hour and 45 minutes after the game, I don't want to take this jersey off yet. Because I know when I take it off, that will be the last time." - an emotional Brian O'Driscoll after ending his Irish career on a high in Paris. "I don't think they can come in and fill his shoes straight away - they will have slightly smaller feet" - Ireland coach Joe Schmidt on the impossibility of replacing Brian O'Driscoll "Next year there will be no BOD on their side so, maybe, God will be on ours." - Philippe Saint-Andre contemplates a better French future. "He just looked like a wiry kid with glasses. It's funny looking back because I remember he could hardly see without his glasses. But then he togged out and, instantly, you just knew he was going to be a handful to contend with. " - former Irish international Kevin Maggs on meeting BOD in 1999. "Brian, almost single-handedly, has changed the face of Irish rugby" - Paul O'Connell. "I wished him well for his family for Christmas ... and I did ask if he had any influence that the Irish fans didn't boo me too much" - Warren Gatland on bumping into BOD again. "When my generation watched rugby it was Jonah Lomu. For an entire generation Brian is Jonah Lomu" - Jamie Heaslip. HEROES & HEROINES "I don't want to sound cocky but I'd like to believe that I'm there on merit. I'd just like to be recognised for the goal and not just my gender " - Stephanie Roche on getting down to the last three in FIFA's best goal award. "As always he comes from nowhere to make an impact" - Henry Shefflin on JJ Delaney's retirement. "Nearly caught a ball over his head once but panicked with excitement and fumbled. Just as well, would have hooked me anyway" - Kilkenny captain Lester Ryan on Delaney. "I thought I was f****ed. I was lying on the ground and I couldn't move and I thought I'd never sit on a horse again. I was depressed, like. Then when I got to hospital, I was just thinking, when can I get back?" - Davy Condon on returning to ride less than four months after suffering three crushed vertebrae and spinal concussion. "For the last 13 years I have had the time of my life, lived my dream and have memories that will stay with me forever" - Kilkenny's Tommy Walsh on retiring. "We put our hands in and said 'let's go f****ing mental!' That was our team speech" - Lynne Cantwell on Ireland's reaction to beating New Zealand in the women's rugby World Cup. BOYS FROM BRAQZIL "I cannot explain it. I will not justify. An error occurred and this error was fatal" - Brazil manager Felipe Scolari after that 7-1 semi-final defeat by Germany in the World Cup. "In nigh on half a century of watching football, that's the most extraordinary, staggering, bewildering game I've ever witnessed - Gary Lineker. "You think the problem is only the players or Scolari? No way. Our football has been deteriorating for years, being sucked dry by talentless moguls" - Brazil's 1994 winner Romario. "I lost my balance, making my body unstable and falling on top of my opponent. After that moment I hit my face against the player, leaving a small bruise on my cheek and a strong pain in my teeth." - Luis Suarez on biting Giorgio Chiellini. "They chucked him out of there like a dog" - Suarez's grandmother after he got a four-month ban. "They can't forgive Uruguay, that a son of the people has eliminated two of football's big nations, so they invented a whole case - Venezuela president Nicolas Maduro, referring to them knocking out England and Italy. "Who did Suarez kill? This is football, this is contact... They may as well handcuff him and bring him to Guantanamo directly" - Maradona. "He should go for a treatment" - FIFA Secretary General Jerome Valcke on Suarez. "The truth is that my colleague Giorgio Chiellini suffered the physical result of a bite in the collision he suffered with me" - Suarez eventually 'fesses up. "God blessed me, if it had been another two centimetres i could be in a wheelchair today " - Brazil's Neymar after suffering cracked verterbrae by that tackle from Zuniga of Colombia in the quarter-finals. "I was not thinking of hurting him. I was defending my country´s colours" - Zuniga. "Messi could be the best player in the world - if he was human," - Iran coach Carlos Queiroz. "As amazing as it sounds the ball hit my moustache, it was a moustache goal " - Brazil's much lampooned Fred of his effort against Colombia. HOME TRUTHS "I am not fake. If I hate you, I say in your face and I will never speak to you again. Love me or hate me. I don't hate anyone. Peace and love. I just don't like c***." - Italian prop Martin Castrogiovanni while having a go at former coach Richard Cockerill. "I don't know if some people know it that we're only human. We go home tonight...go to bed and get up and go to work in the morning" - Limerick hurler Shane Dowling. "This is ridiculous, grotesque, mediocre, shabby, the lowest of the low. We've hit rock bottom. We are of an incredible, unfathomable mediocrity" - Bordeaux football manager Alain Deveseleer after his team were knocked out of the French Cup by a fifth division team "We have a long hard road and hill to climb now if we are going to regain some of the respect that we earned for ourselves in the last 10 or 12 years." - Tyrone manager Mickey Harte after losing to Kerry by 15 points in the league last March. "It's wonderful to go out there and prove I'm not just a guy who's had two heart transplants." - golfer Erik Compton, who finished runner-up in the US Open. "How do you expect to get success at a club when you have clowns at the top making decisions like this?" - Gareth Anscombe slams Ulster for sacking Mark Anscombe, his father. "I thought I would have been killed because any man that hits a golf stick and takes my bone out in one slap...if it had been my head it was good night" - boxer John Joe Nevin after being horrifically assaulted. "To me they look like a county living in the Dark Ages…the only team in the modern era where you still see players with fat legs, bellies and arses " - Ger Loughnane on the Offaly hurlers. "How the hell did it happen this week?" - Rory McIlroy on winning the PGA Championship, the week after breaking off his engagement with Caroline Wozniacki. "It is just a lesson for anybody who gets knocked through their life or career, you keep your mouth shut and move on" - Davy Russell on stepping in for an injured colleague and riding three winners for Gigginstown Stud, less than three months after its owner Michael O'Leary sacked him. 
 
Close
 Simon Zebo shows his trademark ‘Z’ celebration SPORTSFILE / "Why should I play with a frown. I took it up because I loved it and was happy to play it. If a coach told me to stop doing that I'd stop playing rugby probably" - Munster's Simon Zebo. "Yeah, Simon was alright" - Joe Schmidt's curt assessment of Simon Zebo's performance against Argentina, after finally recalling him to the Irish team. "People think Kilkenny have no tactics. That's codswallop. Kilkenny are well ahead of everyone else" - Offaly boss Brian Whelahan after that 0-14 to 0-28 (check) savaging by the Cats in their Leinster opener. "If you don't like scrummaging you are in the wrong position. Now get on with it" - referee Nigel Owens during Munster's European quarter-final romp against Toulouse. "It is heart attack material. You've got to try and read and puck every ball and, at the same time, keep a cool head" - Limerick hurling boss TJ Ryan on being an inter-county manager. "Would I have loved to have got paid to pay GAA? Of course. Does it stop me giving everything I can for it? Absolutely not" - Colm Cooper. "I don't want to cry, I want to be tough" - British speed skater Elise Christie tries to put on a brave face after being disqualified from a third event at the Winter Olympics. "In the end, I don't feel I was given time to succeed or fail " - David Moyes on his 10-months in charge of Man Utd. "You can knock seven bells of shite out of each other and have a pint with him afterwards - Wale's Adam Jones on the unique appeal of his Irish counterpart Cian Healy. "The galacticos have become the nobody-knows" - Welsh legend Phil Bennett on the Ospreys "Oh Jeez, yes, I'll miss competing. It's that half an hour sitting in a winning dressing room after the game, that's what I'll miss most. Oh, and the all-day drinking session after the final game!" - Ronan O'Gara. "She might have done a better job on refereeing the match maybe" - Kerry boss Eamonn Fitzmaurice gets in a dig at David Coldrick while commenting on the first female official to act as linesman in a men's game in Croke Park. LOLZ "Joe Brolly told us the production line was finished in Kerry? Well Joe Brolly, what do you think of that?" - Kieran Donaghy produces the catch-phrase of the GAA year. "You'd know his father was from Tyrone!" - Brolly's immediate comeback. 
 
Close
 Paddy Barnes / "Here @KatieTaylor, ya may have won 5 World titles but have ya got 2 Commonwealth Games titles???#fightme " - her sparring mate Paddy Barnes "Haha! The Commonwealths?! Sure my Ma would win a gold medal in that!!" - Taylor's knock-out reply. "There's one and a half billion people in China that couldn't give a 'shite' about this game" - Monaghan's Dick Clerkin reveals what manager Malachy O'Rourke's said to lift the tension ahead of their Ulster quarter-final against Tyrone. "Kaka was not able to start as he had gastro-enteritis, didn't train for two days and lost 3kg in three days. How did he lose so much weight? Use your imagination. Especially with his name" - AC Milan assistant manager Muaro Tassotti. "I asked the mother to lock him in the bedroom on Sunday morning but she wouldn't do it. I might have to go up there and do it myself the next time" - Kilkenny legend Tommy Walsh on losing Kilkenny's number five jersey to his little brother Padraig. "He's a mean little son of a gun, he'd take the snot off you in a minute - Red Walsh on Hurricane Fly. "I used to muck out a few cattle sheds when I was younger" - Leinster's Wexford tighthead Tadhg Furlong on the possible root of his core strength. "Thanks (to) him for giving up everything, travelling with me to be my hitting partner, fix the drinks, fix the strings. he do a lot of jobs so thanks a lot, you're a nice guy. Also...you so lucky to find me!" - Chinese tennis player Li Na (31) after winning the Australian Open. "Scotland may have to go to some dark places but we'll bring some torches" - Scotland's interim rugby coach Scott Johnson. "He was eating pick 'n mix sweets the whole way down on the bus. He must have had a sugar overdose by the time he got into the dressing room. - Wexford hurler Jack Guiney. "I've seen Jaws 1, 2 and 3 and sharks don't scare me" - Toulon owner Mourad Boudjellal on the prospect of facing South Africa's Sharks. "This is football from the 19th century. The only think I can bring more to win is a Black & Decker. A Black & Decker to destroy the wall - Jose Mourinho is not happy after a nil-all draw with West Ham. "You will have to get the FBI for that one" - Armagh boss Paul Grimley when asked if his team deliberately lined up behind the Cavan flag in Armagh-geddon. "When you like the ball you can do anything with it" - Tipp hurling boss Eamon O'Shea. "They found a body in there and took it out" - Leinster assistant coach Richie Murphy describes Sean O'Brien's ankle surgery. "Don't mind if I stare over there, do you?" - Ryan Giggs, interim manager of Manchester United, looks away from the TV sets in the Southampton press room as Man City's Premier League celebrations were screened live. "I always said I'd retire after a Cheltenham winner but I'm booked to ride tomorrow so I can't! " - Robbie McNamaa after riding his first Cheltenham Festival winner. "It will be almost like going to Scotland for us, maybe we'll have to get a visa to go there" - Wexford hurling manager Liam Dunne on having to go to Ballycastle to play Antrim. "Colin O'Riordan made a speech before the game and for an 18-year-old, I was going to tog out full-forward myself." - Tipperary football boss Peter Creedon on their teenage wing-back star before the Munster semi-final "Last year we were all sizzle and no steak, this year we had a horror start but now we are off like a bride's nightie" - Aussie rugby winger Nick 'The honey badger' Cummins. "I crossed the line more than Osama Bin Laden" - The Honey Badger again on scoring a hat-trick in one game. COME AGAIN? "Shut yours you f****ing old c***," - Newcastle coach Alan Pardew Man City boss to Manuel Pellegrini during a touchline row. "It was just a prank, the boys have seen me doing it before. I didn't know it had been taken and I didn't think it would become public" - Todd Carney, the Australian rugby league player who got sacked after pictures of him urinating into his own mouth at a nightclub went viral. "We didn't speak about it the last day but it was criminal what was done. People can say I'm whinging and moaning all they like but I am telling the truth " - Brian Cody slams referee Barry Kelly for giving Tiipp a free at the end of the drawn All-Ireland final…which they didn't score. "From the mid-2000s my feeling was that Clare was a social team. I knew some of them were taking harder stuff than drink" - Davy Fitzgerald. "I think that's a major self-indulgence to do something like that" - Football pundit Martin Keown is not impressed by Erik Lamela's stunning 'rabona' goal for Spurs. 
 
Close
 Jim Gavin favours playing the provincial championships prior to a revamped All-Ireland series, based on a group system. Oliver McVeigh / SPORTSFILE SPORTSFILE / "I learned in military college 25 years ago from (the teachings of) a guy called Carl Von Clausewitz that your plans will never survive first contact with the enemy" - Dublin boss Jim Gavin on what went wrong against Donegal. "You are talking to the losers but I still think we can have a say in this championship" - prophetic Tipp hurling manager Eamon O'Shea after losing to Limerick on June 2. "If one supposes he's right and I'm afraid of failure, it's because I don't fail many times. So maybe he's right. I'm not used to failing. But the reality is he's a specialist because, eight years without a piece of silverware, that's failure" - Jose Mourinho trash-talks Arsene Wenger. "A bit shit" - what Usain Bolt reportedly told one London Times reporter about the Commonwealth Games. "I can categorically tell you Mario Balotelli will not be at Liverpool" - Brendan Rodgers emphatically rules out any possibility of signing the mercurial Italian. A month later they paid £16m for him. "The problem with Chelsea is I lack a striker. I have Eto'o but he is 32 years old, maybe 35, who knows?" - The Special One, though Mourinho claimed he thought he was 'off the record.' "If Hitler had an interest in rugby and fronted the money and showed it to the All Blacks, told them to come tour Nazi Germany, the All Blacks would" - Former Samoan centre Eliota Fuimano-Sapolu expresses his disgust at them not touring Polynesia. "They're both evasion sports The sports scientists will tell you the skill set is similar and there's quite a lot of transference from his position in rugby to gaelic football. There's a bit of rewiring to be done for sure but we'd be confident that process can happen - James Horan on bringing rugby player Gavin Duffy into the Mayo panel. He never played a game for them. Irish Independent 
