sport football
{  
    June 28 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/sive-rowing-club-27359804.html }
THE 2006 rowing season got underway in Cahersiveen on Sunday in good weather conditions. The club competed in all races.The minor boys finished in third place. The crew are Conor OShea, Brendan OSullivan, Patrick McCarthy, Keith McCarthy, coxed by Mickey Murphy.Next to race were the senior men in a tight fought race they achieved first place from Callinafercy. Th Sive Rowing Club THE 2006 rowing season got underway in Cahersiveen on Sunday in good weather conditions. The club competed in all races. The minor boys finished in third place. The crew are Conor O’Shea, Brendan O’Sullivan, Patrick McCarthy, Keith McCarthy, coxed by Mickey Murphy. Next to race were the senior men in a tight fought race they achieved first place from Callinafercy. The crew are Paud Óg O’Shea, Christopher O’Sullivan, Darren O’Shea, Colm Curran, coxed by Padraig O’Shea. The under 18 ladies rowed a very good race to take second position coxed by Mickey Murphy. The crew was Cathriona Morris, Laoise Driscoll, Sinead Sheehan, Aine O’Shea. The under 16 boys finished fifth. The crew of James Casey, Colm Moriarty, John McGill, Colm Murphy, coxed by Padraig O’Shea. Our senior ladies were thrilled with their third place, the crew being coxed by Mickey Murphy were Kathleen McCarthy, Elaine O’Sullivan, Margaret Daly and Caroline O’Riordan. The u-14 boys rowed a brilliant race to take second in a very competitive race. The crew were Mark McCarthy, Seamus Stretton, Kieran Driscoll, Brian Murphy, Coxed by Padraig O’Shea. Last to race were the under 16 ladies and what a performance they put in, taking the lead at the buoy they were pipped at the finish line by Killorglin, but were thrilled with their second place. The next regatta is Waterville on Sunday, July 2. CLUB DEVELOPMENT: The club have launched a five month draw to raise funds to finish the boat house. The figure to be raised is ?65,000. Tickets are ?20 a month for five months. Top prize is ?1,000 holiday voucher for South Africa, Portugal and Canaries plus golf outings and meals for two. We will be visiting your area in the coming weeks. This development will be of great benefit to the youth of the area. Tickets are available from the following: Chairman, Padraig O’Shea (066) 9472506; Secretary, Catherine O’Shea (066) 9473331; PRO, Josephine McGill (066) 9472642; Kathleen McCarthy (087) 6312716; Paddy Casey (087) 1360238; Treasurer, Cian Murphy (066) 9473041. We would like to thank the sponsors of this draw — Tom Keane Construction; Maurice Fitzgerald Auctioneer; Ring of Kerry Hotel; Walsh’s Super Valu; John O’Connor Construction Ltd.; Paud Moran, Electrician; Dan Tim O’Sullivan; Gerald McCarthy Insurance; Quirke’s Builders Providers; Quarry Restaurant, Kells; Moorings Restaurant, Portmagee; O’Connor Printers; Anchor Bar. The first draw will take place in the Anchor Bar at 9.30pm. Weeshie Fogarty of Radio Kerry will draw the winning ticket.. Tuosist THE clean-up of Kilmackillogue cemetery will take place on Sunday next, July 2 between 3 and 6pm. You are asked to tidy up your own family plot before the Mass at the cemetery on July 7 which Bishop Murphy will attend. SUMMER CAMP: Kerry Diocesan Youth Service (KDYS) is running summer camps in Tuosist, Kilgarvan and Kenmare beginning July 5. This is aimed at the 12015 year age group. The camp involves a variety of activities — games, crafts, outings to local places of interest. Cost ?40 for 12 hours of activities. The emphasis of these camps is fun, participation and youth workers building relationships with local young people. Don’t let cost stop you from doing this camp, funding is available. For details contact Susan / Joy on (087) 7517553, (064) 40677, kdyskenmare@eircom.net. CO LEAGUE: On Saturday next, July 1, Tuosist are at home to Ballydonoghue in round 6 of the county league. Tuosist followers would be hoping the team can get back on track after losing to Na Gaeil in the previous round. The game will start at 8pm. MUNSTER FINAL: Club members wishing to attend the Munster football on July 9 are reminded to have their tickets ordered from the club secretary by the weekend. Tickets will be ordered from the County Board on Monday morning. Contributors to Ticket Scheme 2003-2008 are reminded that their order for tickets should be with the County Board by this Friday, June 30. LOTTO: The numbers drawn were 1, 13, 22. There was no outright winner. Prizewinners: ?50 each — Carmel O’Sullivan, Sailors Bar; Carol O’Sullivan, Dromerkeen, Lauragh and Sean O’Sullivan, Lake House. Valentia THE death took place in San Francisco, USA of one of Ireland’s and Kerry’s most illustrious emigrants, who was Pat Brosnan, a native of Currow, Pat Emigrated to the USA in the early fifties and served duty with the American Army in the Korean War. He married his childhood sweetheart Sheila, also from Currow 53 years ago. His years in San Francisco saw him earn widespread respect among the Irish and American community, being extremely popular and well known. A hugely successful building contractor his achievements were many and varied. The United Irish Cultural Centre in San Francisco is undoubtedly the best known landmark, meeting place and port of call among the Irish Community there. Pat Brosnan was responsible for its construction, being to all intents and purposes the architect, engineer and builder during the course of its construction. In sporting parlance he will always be remembered for bringing the All-Star hurlers and footballers to the west coast on their visits to San Francisco, annually. This he inaugurated in the early seventies. The Valentia connection is thus. A number of months ago he and his wife Sheila were honoured at a gala night in the United Irish Cultural Centre in which 500 people sat to dinner. All proceeds from the night went to the Valentia Community Hospital Development Fund. It was fitting that on the day of his funeral, a cheque in excess of ?27,000 arrived to the Hospital, Management Committee. May he rest in peace. Sincere sympathy is extended to his wife Sheila, son Patrick and daughter Noreen. SCHOOLS COMPETITION: Pride of place in the Valentia GAA world these days must go to the young female footballers of the Scoil Derarca National School of Ballyhearney in the county final of three teacher schools in which they defeated Kilmurry at Austin Stack Park, Tralee. Under the guidance of their teacher and mentor, the Valentia senior footballer John Daly, they enjoyed a lead of 2-7 to no score at half time, being assisted by a strong wind. Kilmurry came back at them in the second half, but the islanders held on to win on a score of 4-9 to 2-8. Team: Sadie O’Sullivan, Madie Taylor, Elaine Murphy, Ciara Lyne, Denise Curran, Amy Lyne, Niamh Lyne, Sarah Curran, Cassie Murphy. Subs: Nicola O’Sullivan, Josephine Lynch, Aoife Murphy, Aoife Sugrue. Congratulations to all. MARRIAGE: On Saturday, the marriage took place in the Daniel O’Connell Church, Cahersiveen of Nathan Sheehan of Geokaun View, Valentia to Keisha Kong of Trinidad, with the reception taking place in the Waterville Lake Hotel. Congratulations to them. ENGAGEMENT: Congratulations to Leanne O’Driscoll, daughter of David and Ann O’Driscoll of The Farm in Farranreigh and Paul Cremin of the Spa, Killarney, whose recent engagement took place in Rome. DEATHS: Sympathy is extended to Cautie Murphy and family of Knightstown and all concerned on the recent death in the Bronx, New York of her sister, the former Peggy O’Sullivan of Cooil. She was pre-deceased by her husband Martin Cournane of Castlemaine, who passed away in 1984. The late Peggy Cournane, emigrated to the USA in 1959. Sympathy also to her son Martin of the Bronx, New York. Sympathy is extended to Adrian and Teresa Mackey of the Cable Station on the death of their son Kevin and to Noreen Sugrue of Corobeg on the death in Cavan of her father Larry Farrelly. ROWING: On Sunday the first regatta of the South and Mid Kerry Rowing season took place in Cahersiveen. On this occasion only two Valentia four oar boats took part, namely the minor boys, under the command of coxswain, Ger Jack O’Sullivan and the senior ladies under the guidance of their coxswain, Leo Houlihan. Two Valentia Seine boats also took part. Dermot Walsh as coxswain, took to the water with his newly built Seine boat Golden Sky with Leo Houlihan in command of the Seine boat Adventure. The first race of the day which commenced at 3 o’clock was that of the minor boys. Coxed by Ger Jack O’Sullivan, son of the late Valentia Seine boat cox, Paddy Jack O’Sullivan, the minors kicked their season off to the ideal start taking first place. These minors as last year’s under 16s were very successful getting the overall award in South and Mid Kerry waters and winning the All-Ireland coastal under 16 event in Wicklow. The crew members are: Ger Jack O’Sullivan (cox), James Lynch (stroke), Peter O’Connell, Liam Wharton, Brendan O’Sullivan. Second place went to Portmagee under coxswain David Hussey, with Sive taking third place under coxswain, Padraig O’Shea. The Valentia senior ladies, who have swept all before them in South and Mid Kerry waters in recent years came second to Sneem on this occasion under their coxswain Leo Houlihan in the boat An tOileánach. However, these ladies are only getting into their stride with regards training and will be happy enough with this result. The crew members were Leo Houlihan (cox), Miriam Lyne (stroke), Sinead O’Connor, Martina Houlihan and Marie O’Neill. The main event of the day, the Seine boat race saw cox Leo Houlihan coming fourth with his boat Adventure and Dermot Walsh getting fifth position in his boat Golden Sky. Sneem, who swept all before them last year again got their season off to a good start taking first place. Here are the placings: 1, Sneem; 2, Templenoe; 3, Liberator of Cahersiveen; 4, Leo Houlihan; 5, Dermot Walsh; 6, Cromane; 7, Killorglin. The next regatta is to take place in the Waterville Lake next Sunday. PIONEERS: Congratulations to Vera O’Shea (nee Burns) of Corobeg and Dan McCrohan of Knightstown, who were presented with gold pioneer pins at a special service in the Daniel O’Connell, Memorial Church on Friday evening in honour of their 50 years service as members of the Pioneer Association. DEATHS: Sympathy is extended to the former Kerry footballer Mick O’Connell and his wife Rosaleen on the death at the weekend in Cavan of Rosaleen’s sister Ann O’Reilly. Sympathy also to Mick’s sister Christina O’Connell and family on the death in Longford of her husband Paddy Kennedy. CAPTAINCY: In the not too distant past the executive committee of the Valentia Young Islanders GAA met to decide the captaincy of the South Kerry Senior football team for the current county championship. In the event of a Valentia player not making the starting fifteen the club nominated Brian Hickey of Skellig Rangers as the optional captain. We extend every good wish to the South Kerry management of James O’Sullivan, Johnny Walsh, John Teahan and the players in their quest for an unprecedented South Kerry three-in-a-row. UNDER 14: Well done to the South Kerry under 14 footballers on their fine win in the county championship final on Saturday evening against West Kerry. Paul O’Sullivan of Ballyhearney scored three goals and two points in a fine display by this very bright future prospect. His first cousin John Curran of Lower Ballyhearney another future star was prominent at midfield, while Sean O’Sullivan of Lower Tennis, was a substitute. Well done also to the management team of Christy O’Connell, Patrick O’Sullivan and Michael O’Sullivan. SENIOR TEAM: Currently the senior team is struggling in the County League Division 3, having gained only two points from four games. They won their opening game against Ballymacelligott at O’Connor Park and subsequently lost to Kenmare, Renard and Castlegregory. The Castlegregory encounter played recently in Valentia was particularly cruel with the Islanders leading by two points in the dying seconds, conceding two goals. John Shanahan, who continues to be a huge loss, having dislocated his shoulder against Kenmare, could very well make a comeback next weekend as the Young Islanders play away to St Pat’s Blennerville. B TEAM: Timothy Lyne and Michael Pampas Cahill who manage the Valentia B senior footballers will be happy enough with their charges thus far, having defeated Keel, Glenflesk, Glenbeigh, Laune Rangers C and arch rivals Skellig Rangers. They lost their game to Renard at O’Connor Park. TICKETS: Anyone interested in Munster senior football final tickets should contact the Young Islanders Secretary, Deirdre Lyne or Assistant Secretaries, Miriam Lyne and Brian Murphy. SHOW: The Ring of Kerry Hotel in Cahersiveen’s West End will hold a night of music, song, dance and storytelling, featuring local artists every Tuesday night from 8 to 10pm. The opening night will be Tuesday, July 4 with tickets available at the door. PRO: We look forward to Ger O’Shea, the PRO of the South Kerry Football Board fulfilling his ambition of playing the South Kerry senior football championship during the summer months, now that he is in government. Currow / Currans CURROW seniors play Spa at Spa this weekend in the Credit Union county league division 2. Check for date and starting time. Currow juniors play Na Gaeil away on Friday, June 30. Congratulations to Daniel O’Shea who has been selected on the Kerry minor team for this Wednesday’s Munster minor semi-final against Limerick at the Austin Stack Park. There was no winner in the June lotto draw held at the Brown Flesk Inn on Sunday night. The numbers drawn were 2, 7, 11, 17. Prizewinners: ?100, John McCrohan, c/o Ambulance service Tralee; ?50 each — Moss Leane, Gortshanafa; Jake O’Connor, Inchincumer, Currow. Sympathy to the O’Sullivan family, Gortshanafa; O’Connor family, Bawnaglanna; Howard family, Kilsarcon and Brosnan family, Kilsarcon on their recent bereavements. KNOCK . . . Sunday, July 16. Bus will leave Currans at 6.15am; Currow 6.30am; Castleisland 6.45am. Contact Humphrey (066) 9764394; Anne Fleming 9764314; Sheila Daly 9764136. CURROW NS PARENTS ASSOC: Many thanks to everyone who supported our recent church gate collection. Your generosity was very much appreciated. Congratulations to all the pupils who participated in the swimming gala in Tralee Sports Complex. Special congratulations to our medal winners - 1, Erin O’Connor, 2, Rhianne Gallagher and Shane Collier. Well done to everyone. We would like to thank Mrs Mary Sheehan all the best on her retirement and we wish her and her family every success for future health and happiness. CYCLING CLUB . . . would like to wish all members of the club and all cyclists taking part in the ring of Kerry Charity Cycle on next Saturday, July 1 a safe and enjoyable day. Sponsorship cards available in Currow Post Office. POKER RUN: On Saturday, July 8 over 200 motor cyclists and their machines are expected to arrive in Currow. They will be signing on at Cunnife’s Bar from 12 noon to 1pm to take part in the Duagh Poker run in aid of Our Lady’s Hospital for Sick Children in Crumlin. It is hoped that as many locals as possible will turn out to support the event and donate to the bucket collection. Tickets are also on sale at the O’Sullivan Centra Foodstore and the prize is a mini moto. LADIES FOOTBALL: Sponsored walk to raise funds for Currow club on Saturday, July 1. Please support as generously as possible. WEDDING BELLS: Congratulations to the following who got married recently — Brendan Kerins, Glounbawn and Jillian Patricia Doran, Castleisland. RETIREMENT: We wish Mary Sheehan, a very happy retirement from Scoil Mhuire agus Naomh Treasa. PARISH PASTORAL COUNCIL: The next meeting will be on Thursday, June 29. All members are asked to please attend to finalise the tour. DEATHS: Deepest sympathy is extended to the families of the following — Mrs Kathleen Howard, Kilsarcon, Currow, who died in San Francisco, USA; Mrs Maggie Cremins (nee O’Connor), late of Bawnaglanna, Currow; Mrs Nell Hickey (nee Scannell), Killeagh, Farranfore; Mary O’Sullivan, late of Gurrane, who died in San Francisco, USA. CURROW CC: On Sunday, June 18 Currow CC hosted the 40th annual John Drumm Memorial Race. There were large entries in all categories and some spectacular finishes. Senior A: R Clarke, Worldwide Cycles. Senior B: Niall O’Brien, Limerick. Senior C: Aidan Gallery, Limerick. Junior: C McCarthy, Earl of Desmond. U-16: S Donna, Killorglin CU CC. U-15: B Henry, Listowel CC. U-14: C Corcoran, Killorgliin CU CC. U-13: C McGillicuddy, Killorglin CU CC. U-12: R McCarthy, Fermoy. U-11: S McConville, Kanturk. Girls u-13: E Aherne, Fermoy. Girls u-12: S O’Neill, Fermoy. The club greatly appreciate and thank everyone who helped make the day a huge success. The club also wishes the cyclists a safe and pleasant journey around the Ring of Kerry on Saturday next, July 1, sponsorship cards at your local Centra Foodstore. FARRANFORE GOLF SOCIETY: The very best of luck to Daniel O’Shea and the Kerry minor football team in the Munster semi-final against Limerick on Wednesday, June 28 at Austin Stack Park. Kilgarvan SYMPATHY is extended to Kerry Athletic Officer Breeda Barrett and family members on the death of her mother, Mrs Joan O’Connell, Ballydesmond. John Egan represented Kilgarvan AC at the funeral. KERRY DIOCESAN YOUTH: Kerry Diocesan Youth Service is running camps in Tuosist, Kilgarvan and Kenmare starting July 5. The emphasis of these camps is aimed at the 12-15 age group. The camp involves a variety of activities — games, crafts, outings to local places of interest. Cost ?40 for 12 hours of activities, fun, participation and youth workers building relationships with local young people. Don’t let cost stop you from doing this camp, funding is available. For details contact Susan / Joy (087) 7517553 or (064) 40677. COMING AND GOING: Paddy Kelleher, Collogues is back again on holiday from New York. Paddy Callaghan and Mrs O’Callaghan, Caher East and his brother Jerry from Dirrinacullig have returned after spending a week in their holiday home in Portugal. Billy Hegarty, his wife Patricia and son Jack are also abroad on holiday. We were delighted again with very pleasant annual visit of two Moynihan sisters of Lissivigeen stock. Down the years Cait O’Sullivan Darcy has been a most dedicated and hard working office of Spa GAA club. Bernie Lenihan, Inchacullane, Kilcummin, was a top telephonist in Killarney exchange in the day of the manual telephone service and in a recent programme broadcast by Kerry Radio gave an outstanding performance covering the manual days. Mrs Mary McGarry (nee Riordan), who had emigrated from Coomolougher and her Donegal born husband Pat McGroary have recently arrived on holidays from the USA. HEALTH AND SAFETY: At recent games in Killarney it was good to see the smoking ban strictly adhered to in the stand. CO CHAMPIONSHIP: After great performances last year, a fine opening round win away against West Kerry raised expectations for our Kenmare District football side this year. Four of last year’s side were already missing but the recent departure to New York of Tuosist’s outstanding midfielder Alan O’Sullivan and the later loss through injury of full-back Danny Quill were shattering blows against a team like Crokes who were clearly superior. The wood work deprived our team of a few scores and with and with eight teams featuring over the weekend it was at least a bonus to see goalie Stephen O’Sullivan and midfielder Flor O’Sullivan listed in the top fifteen. From a Kilgarvan point of view the introduction as subs of Connie Cremin and Donal O’Sullivan was welcome. JUNIOR FOOTBALL: Kilgarvan at home in a Division 6 junior football league tie had a narrow 1-14 to 1-11 win over Templenoe. HURLING: Ballyheigue B were visitors to Kilgarvan for the semi-final of Division 2 senior hurling league. Playing with the breeze Ballyheigue had a 1-10 to 0-7 interval lead. In a high scoring game Kilgarvan rallied in the second half to win 3-14 to 1-17. DIVISION 3 HURLING: The first round of Division 3 hurling league saw a game at Kilgarvan on Thursday night. When the official referee did not appear after 20 minutes both sides agreed to a novel and sensible arrangement, M Foley Kilgarvan did the first half and M Leahy St Pat’s did the second half. The best tribute that we can pay to them is that both should be on the official panel of referees and get more games. Both were most impartial. Kilgarvan’s top player F Egan went into the game injured and was forced to retire after two minutes. Kilgarvan had an interval lead of 1-6 to 0-5. The visitors raised their game in the second half and with a bit of luck could at least have earned a draw. Pat Delaney and his selectors had reason to be impressed with their charges who included some skilled hurlers. Final score Kilgarvan 1-12, St Pat’s East Kerry 1-8. CONGRATULATIONS . . . to our good friend Mrs Mary Looney Hegarty on her nice jackpot bingo win in Killarney. Know Your Rights Question? Can you tell me what free treatment I am entitled to under the Dental Benefit scheme? Answer: Under the Dental Benefit Scheme, operated by the Department of Social and Family Affairs, basic preventative dental treatment including examination, scaling and polishing is free. Dental Benefit, under the Department's Treatment Benefit Scheme, is available to those who are insured and satisfy certain Pay Related Social Insurance (PRSI) contribution conditions. You are also eligible if you are the dependent spouse of an insured person or a dependent widow(er) whose spouse was qualified at time of death. If you satisfy the PRSI conditions when you reach age 60 you will remain qualified for life. Under the scheme you are entitled to a complete oral examination, the cleaning and polishing of your teeth and the treatment of mild gum conditions for free. In general you are only entitled to the free examination once every 12 months. For other dental treatments there are two sets of charges - one for those whose annual income is under ?53,000 and the other for those whose income is above ?53,000. For those whose income is above ?53,000, the Department pays a contribution and the patient pays the balance (apart from the free treatment mentioned previously). Those whose income is below ??53,000 per annum have to pay one of the following depending on the treatment - pay a set charge, pay the balance after the Department's contribution, or pay the dentist's fee less 15% and less the Department's contribution. For instance, if you have a tooth extracted under local anaesthetic you have to pay ?12.50. A simple amalgam filling is charged at the dentist's normal private fee less 15% and also less the Department's contribution of ?31.10. Dentists are obliged to display their charges for fillings. You can receive Dental Benefit for dental treatment received abroad in another EU member state. Contact the Department before you travel for an application form and details of how much the Department will pay. Further information is available from the Treatment Benefit Section, Department of Social and Family Affairs, St. Oliver Plunkett Road, Letterkenny, Co. Donegal. Tel: Lo-Call 1890 400 400 (Ext 4480) and from the Citizens Information Centre below. Killarney 064 32297. Email: killarney.cic@comhairle.ie. Tralee 066 712 3655. Email: tralee.cic@comhairle.ie. Caherciveen 066 947 3515. Email: caherciveen.cic@comhairle.ie Castleisland 066 714 3992. Email: castleisland.cic@comhairle.ie Dingle 066 915 2280. Email: dingle.cic@comhairle.ie Kenmare 064 41000. Email: kenmare.cic@comhairle.ie Killorglin 066 979 0856. Email: killorglin.cic@comhairle.ie Listowel 068 22937. Email: listowel.cic@comhairle.ie Lo-call No: 1890 777 121. Web Site: www.oasis.gov.ie Abbeydorney G.A.A.Our junior team was defeated by Causeway in the North Kerry League Final played in Lerrig on Friday evening score 0-16 to 0-6. Team and scorers S.Cronin, P.Dineen, G.Maunsell, B.Quane, E.Egan, D.Nolan, D.Lawlor, G.Brassil, W.O'Leary, M.O'Callagan,, A.Donovan, B.O'Leary (()-4f), J.McCarthy, B.Sheehan 0-1, B.Maunsell. Subs D.O'Connell for G.Brassil (inj), G.Fealy for B.Maunsell, D.Doyle 0-1 for J.McCarthy, C.O'Brien for A.Donovan. F.Roche for D.Lawlor. We wish Ger Brassil a speedy recovery following his injury on Wednesday evening. Our Juniors defeated Kenmare in the Co. League played in O'Dorney. Score 1-11 to 1-9. Team and scorers S.Cronin, D.Clifford, G.Maunsell, M.Leahy, B.Quane, D.Lawlor, F.Roche, M.O'Callaghan, 1-6, E.Egan, H.OConnell 0-1, B.Maunsell, G.Fealy 0-3, P.Dineen, C.Kearney, G.Harrington 0-1. U-11 team defeated Duagh in the North Kerry Championship played in O'Dorney on Wednesday evening last. score 1-3 to 1-0. Team J.P.Byrne, W.O'Leary, C.Maunsell, C.Dowling, R.Freeman, M'O'Leary, J.Shanahan, E.Guerin, R.Donovan, C.McCarthy, D.Egan, S.O'Sullivan, W.Colbert, B.McCarthy, A.Conway. Subs used J.O'Mahony and E.O'Connor. Blitz: Abbeydorney U-10 Hurlers reached the final of the U-10 blitz in Ballyheigue on Saturday. The boys played very well beating Duagh, Ballyduff and Lixnaw to reach the semi-final against Causeway. This was a nail biting game which finished level in narmal time. Abbeydorney displayed great spirit to win by two goals in extra time. In the final Abbeydorney faced a strong Ballyheigue team. The final was played in great spirit eventhough both teams were very tired. However Ballyheigue were victorious in the end.Team Craig Freeman, William O'Leary, Michael O'Leary, Cian Dowling, Eric Guerin, Ronan O'Donovan, Stevie O'Sullivan, David Egan, Tommy Kearney, Niall O'Mahony, Colm McCarthy, Adam Buckley, Alban Stack. Kerry Hurlers:The culb was represnented by A.Hely, (playing) Mike and K.Hannaing subs used on the Kerry team defeated by Wicklow in the Christy Ring Cup played in Arklow on Saturday last. Score 0-15 to 2-7 Fixtures: Div 3 Co. League v Causeway on this Wednesday June 28th at 8 p.m. away. Minor: North Kerry League/Championship v Ballyduff on this Thursday June 29th at 6.30 p.m. home. U-16 Co. League v Ballyheigue on this Saturday July 1st at 4.30 p.m. home. Underage training contiinues on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 6.30 p.m. Any club Member who wishes to be included in the draw for Munster Football Final tickets contact Fran Rgan 087 6993914 club treasurer. Congratulations to Sonny Egan on coming second with his own short story which he himself performed, at Writer's Week in Listowel recently. Well done Sonny Cemetery Masses: The Annual Cemetery Mass in Kyrie Eleison will be celebrated on Tuesday July 4th at 8 p.m.. Killahan on Friday Junly 7th at 8 p.m. Mass: will be celebrated in St. Bernard's Church Abbeydorney on this Thursday June 29th at 10 a.m. to mark the retirement of Mrs. Colette Phelan. A presentation will follow at Abbeydorney N.S. Parents and past pupils are invited to attend. McElligott Bar: The weekly winner of Poker Classic Wednesday night was Muarice McElligott Kilflynn, Sun night Tom Lyons. The winners of weekly 41 Card Drive Sat night was a 3 way divide. Symathy is extended to the family, relatives and friends of Rita O'Mahoy (nee Collins) of Tralee and late of Ballysheen Abbeydorney who died recently. Abbeydorney Golf Society Abbeydorney Golf Society held Captain's Mike Fuller's Prize day at Castleisland Golf Club last Saturday. The weather conditions were good and the course was in excellent condition which was reflected in the scoring. 40 golfers participated. The outing was sponsored by Mike & Geraldine Parker to whom the society are most grateful. The presentation of prizes was held in Parker's Bar where the merriment and dancing went on until the late hours. Results as follows 1st Paul Riordan (10) 40 pts, 2nd John Sexton (15) 36 pts, 3rd Cyril Lynch (24) 36pts, 4th Gary Kavanagh (16) 35pts, Front Nine Dan Brassil (14) 21pts, Back Nine Mike Lynch (24) 19pts, Nearest the Pin John Raggert, Longest Drive Mike Lynch. Guest Prizes Men 1st Kevin Fitzgerald (20) 36 pts 2nd Mike Leen (20) 30pts. Ladies Mary Savage (24) 37pts. The draw for the singles match play between the top 16 is as follows John Sexton V Gary Kavanagh, Paul Riordan V Pat Ruane, Ger Doyle V Dan Brassil, Fr Pat O'Donnell V Mundy Hayes, Jerry Fuller V Michael Barry, Fr Jack Fitzgerald V Dan O'Connor, Gerard Pierse V James McGrath, Mike Hickey V Cyril Lynch. Details of dates and rules will be posted to those who qualified. Our next outing is Tipperary Town Golf Club on the 15th July which will be a Fourball with the tee reserved from 11:30 to 1:00. Anyone interested in staying overnight is asked to contact Mike Fuller 087-2749299 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Abbeydorney Parish Hall & Community Centre Building Fund Members Lotto Draw. Results 25 / 6 / 2006. Numbers Drawn. 4 - 6 - 11 - 18 No Jackpot Winner. * Consolation Prizes ?25 - Jimmy Lawlor, Tullacremin. ?25 -Sean Cronin, Keel. *Spot Prizes Agnus O'Leary, Fortwilliam. Nora McElligott, The Village *Names for ?500 Mini Jackpot. Noreen O'Keeffe, Duagh. Dora O'Callaghan, Ballysheen. Michael Edwards, Keel. *Next Draw Sunday - 2nd July - Sports Complex - Jackpot ?8600. Ladies Football : Fixture - Munster Senior C‚ship Kerry V Cork, 01st July at 2.00pm. Cork venue. Committee meeting this Wednesday, 28th June at 9.30 pm in the Complex. All members are requested to attend. Abbeyfeale Abbeyfeale Horse & Pony Races take place on this Sunday 2nd July with the first race due off at 1.30pm. There will be nine races on the day ranging from 12:2 pony to horse category, and will include a one mile open race for local riders and non-HPRA registered horses which will carry prize money of 400 euros. The total prize money for the meeting amounts to 6,000 euros and admission is 5 euro, with children free. There will be plenty of entertainment for young and old with bouncing castle, etc. and it promises to be a great day out for all the family. MARKET: The local Farmers’ Market continues in The Square each Friday morning between 9am and 1pm. GAMES: Brian O’Connell, son of Joan and Sean O’Connell, Ballymacjordan, won gold in the U/14 cycling event at the Community Games county finals in Mungret and will now compete in the national finals in Mosney GOLF: Abbeyfeale Rugby Club are holding a Golf Classic at Newcastlewest Golf Club on Friday, August 18. Tee times are from 10am until 4pm and the cost per team of 4 is ?200. GAA: Fr Casey’s have been drawn to play near-neighbours Athea in the next round of the county senior football championship. Parish Outing: The Parish Outing takes place this year on Wednesday 5th. July. Why not take the day off and join us as we explore the wonderful views on the Ring of Kerry. For further information contact Peg Murphy on 068 31232. Fealview National School: Is a small primary school on the Kerry/ Limerick border. It is currently seeking new entrants into all classes. Your child will be receive personal attention and the best quality education in a caring environment. For further information please contact the Principal on 068 32355. Horse andd Pony Races: The first races were held in 1914 and the tradition continues at Relihan's Inch, Killcarra on Sunday July 2nd. with a 1.30pm start. There will be a prize fund of ?6000. An Riocht MUNSTER JUVENILES: The Munster Juvenile track and field championships were held at the Ríocht track last weekend. Maura Halpin had a very successful weekend competing U.19 winning 3 gold medals, 2 silver and 3 bronze. Sean Mc Carthy had a great win in the boys u.14 shot putt and was 3rd in the discus. Ciara Breen was 3rd in her U.14 discus. JUNIOR INTERNATIONAL: Laura Crowe represented Ireland at a junior international in hungary on sunday last running in the 800m event. Laura finished second in a time of 2:12. RIOCHT INTERNATIONAL: The Ríocht international in on this coming monday evening beginning at 6:30pm. It has again attracted some of the worlds leading athletes including world indoor champion Paul Korir of Kenya and Brandon Simpson of Jamacia 5th place finisher in the Athens olympic games. MARATHON: Congratulations to Seamus Brosnan who qualified to represent Kerry in the community games marathon Annascaul WEDDING: Geraldine O’Shea, Ballintaggart, has been tying defenders in knots for years but she tied the most important knot on Friday last when she married Colm Hanafin-congratulations and best wishes. ANNASCAUL HEALTH CENTRE STAFF invites everybody to a Health Awareness Day on Thursday, 29th June from 2-6.30pm(4.30-6.30pm specifically for men's health). Services include free health checks/ screening, stress management, relaxation, physical activity advice and fitness testing. KELL/ INCH WATER SUPPLY: In order to maintain water supply in the area it its essential that those connected should check their pipes and connections for leak and repair where necessary. Approximately 55,000 gallons of water is lost each day due to leaks and taps left flowing. Info: Joe Fitzgerald (0879106213) or James Fitzgerald (0872980243). LOTTO: Results of draw on 19th June. numbers drawn were 3, 10, 16, 19. Winners of the ?40 prizes were Paudie Moriarty, Ballynane; Anna Kennedy, West inch; Hanafin's Bar, Annascaul; Margaret Flahive, Glentanes; John Casey, Acres. WHIST: Results from Wednesday 21st June. LADIES: 1st Mary English 2nd Mary Flahive. INTERVALS: 1st Nora Devine 2nd tie between Hannah Hanafin and Dora Moriarty. GENTS: 1st Eileen Galvin 2nd Bridie Lyne. INTERVALS: 1st Martin Courtney 2nd Eilish Ashe. MYSTERY: Mickey Murphy and Frances Falvey. RAFFLE: Frances Falvey, Eileen Galvin, Nora Devine, Nora Galvin. TOURIST JOKE: An American was fishing for two weeks and didn't get a bite until the last day when he caught a small salmon. çomplaining to his guide he said "That fish cost me one thousand dollars" to which the guide said "aren't you lucky you didn't catch two"! QUOTATION: Those who've not got what they like must learn to like what they've got. COMMUNITY GAMES: The Community Games were held on Saturday and Sunday, the 17th and 18th of June in Tralee. Niamh Kennedy, Lily Kennedy, Jack O'Connor, Alan Falvey, Brian Kennedy, Aoife Falvey, Ciara O' Sullivan, Ciara Kennedy, Tommy Pierce and Christopher O' Malley participated. Brian Kennedy got a bronze medal in the 80-metre race Under-8. Ciara O' Sullivan got a bronze medal in the 100-metre race Under-10. Our relay Lily, Ciara, Alan and Jack got through to the semi final and came 4th. Tommy Pierce qualified for the final Under-16 100 metres. In the 100 metre race, Lily and Niamh got through to the final. Ciara Kennedy ran in the 200 metre race. Aoife Falvey came 4th in the semi final 80 metre race Under 8. It was a great day in Tralee and everybody enjoyed themselves. Ardfert THE Ardfert ICA annual outing will take place to the Ring of Kerry on Sunday, July 2. The bus leaves the fountain at 9am sharp. Please contact Mary Pierce with your booking at (066) 7134159. ST BRENDAN’S GAA: Congratulations to the U-12’s, Div.1 and Div. 3 teams on their success in games during the past week. Co. League Div.1. v Ballyheigue resulted in a win for St. Brendan’s. Played in very windy conditions and leading at half-time 2-5 to 0-0, Ardfert held out to finish 2-9 to 0-7. Team and scorers; Danny Leen, Maurice Kearney, Gerry Wallace, Éoin Dunne, Keith Dineen, Eamon Corridon, Denis Moriarty, Francis Wallace, Patrick Donegan, John Egan, Conor Flaherty, Darren Dineen 0-3, David Clifford, 1-2, Sean Flaherty, Alan Dineen 1-4. Subs; Jonathon Best for F. Wallace, Eoin Dunne for G. Wallace, Sean Stack for S. Flaherty, Colm Lawlor for M. Kearney, Francis Fitzgerald, Darren Sinnott, Paul Sheehan, Nicholas O’Sullivan, and Noel Clifford. An away game to Abbeydorney is to be played this week, and the Co. Senior B final v Crotta in Dromakee is also due to be played shortly. Our opposition in the N.K. championship semi-final is Ballyheigue. After the long journey to Wicklow last weekend the Kerry senior hurlers had no luck in their efforts. They have further rounds of games to play in their division. The N. K. U-14 match and Co. U-15 Championship preliminary round were both deferred last weekend as a mark of respect to the Casey family Tubrid, on the death of James Casey, and we extend the sympathy of all our members to the family. Daniel Casey a grandson of James is a team member of both teams. The U-14’s now go to Kenmare this Friday evening to meet Kilgarvan at 7pm. Details of transport arrangements from Gerard Hussey. St. Brendan’s competed in the U-10 blitz in Ballyheigue last Saturday, but did not feature in the final shake up. They have also qualified to meet Ballyheigue in the N. K. U-11 final, date to be fixed. In the Co. U-12 semi-final they overcame Lixnaw 4-5 to 3-2. They now await the winners of Causeway v Kilmoyley for the final. Team; Ryan Delaney, Aoife Fitzgerald, Kieran Fitzgerald, Gearóid Sheehan, Fionán Horgan, John Courtney, Pádraig Kearney, Kevin Hannafin, Billy McCarthy, Cian Hussey, Colin Kirby, Eoghan Courtney, Breandán O’Connor, Kevin Skinner, Pauric McGarty. Subs; James Lyne, Ryan Duggan, Patrick McElligott, Jack Nevilinan, Fionn Kavanagh-Ennis, Kevin Shanahan. Best of Luck to Ardfert N.S. in the final of Cumann na mBunscoil hurling competition v Kilmoyley, due to be played this week. Div. 3 game v Laune Rangers last Wednesday resulted in a win for St. Brendan’s 3-10 to 3-3. They have an away game this Wednesday night to meet St. Pat’s in Killarney. The N.K. U-14 B Championship is due to begin this Saturday with an away game v Duagh, and the N.K. U-13 A Championship is due to begin on Saturday 9th with an away game to Ballyheigue. The N.K. Minor A League is also due to begin shortly. The VHI/Cúl Summer hurling Camp dates in Ardfert are July 24-28th in conjunction with the Co. Board. Munster Football Final; Any Hurling Club members seeking tickets for the upcoming Munster Final are asked to submit their names as soon as possible to Club Secretary Jermiah Clifford. St. Brendan’s Hurling Club extends a Cead Mile Failte to the San Francisco U-14 Feile Football team and supporters who are visiting the area and we wish them success in the Feile competition this weekend in Wicklow. Athea THIS weekend July 1 and 2 the annual Fine Gael collection will be held before all Masses at the Church gate, your support is requested. READERS: Readers at Masses this weekend. Saturday, 7.30pm — Pat Brosnan; Sunday, 11am — Maria White. BUS SERVICE: Efforts are now being made in Athea and elsewhere to request Bus Eireann to run a service from Tralee which would take in Knockanure, Athea and Carrickerry on its way to Limerick, as it is evident that public transport is much needed for this route. Compared to other areas in West Limerick and North Kerry our own area along with Carrickerry and Knockanure have been neglected with regard to public transport. Hopefully this latest request will be successful. OUTING: A final reminder about the senior citizens outing which takes place on Thursday next, July 6 — taking in Killarney and Kenmare for lunch and tea and no doubt a great day. Names immediately to Mary on (068) 42111 or Bridie (068) 42388. PAINTING: Well Athea Church is in the process of being painted on the inside at the moment and already it’s looking very nice with the warm colours. Everyone in the parish, who contributes to the weekly envelope collection can be proud that its with their help that the money is there for this big job. No doubt is it won’t take long now until we see the finished product. WELCOMED: Councillor Francis Foley has informed us that ?5,000 has been made available for the provision for research into installing solar-panels in the Community Hall. This is indeed a welcome sum. At the recent meeting of the Newcastle West Area Committee, several issues were brought up including the Athea Bottle Bank, which incidentally in recent weeks seems to be cleaned up thankfully. Also the question of the sewerage was raised and a study will be carried out on the Athea in the next 6-8 months bringing it a step closer to improvement. A study will also be carried out on the Athea Water Group Scheme. LUCKY NUMBERS: Athea Community Council held their Lucky Numbers draw on Saturday night. There had been no draw the previous Saturday night due to the bike race. The jackpot on the night was ?9,500. The numbers drawn were 10, 11, 12, 30. There was no winner. Lucky Dip: ?50, Conor Mullane, Knocknagorna; ?30, Dan Barrett, Turaree; ?20 each — Tom O’Connor, c/o Jack Fitz’s Bar and J Brouder, Gale View; Tim Keane, Moyvane; Peg Mulvihill, Blaine. Sellers Prize: Lilian Fitzgerald and J Matthews. Next week’s draw is at JP’s and the jackpot will be ?9,600. WELL DONE: Sincere congratulations and well done to Jamie Kelly (son of Betty and Timmy, Clash, Athea, who on Sunday won the gold medal in the Munster championship in Castleisland coming in first place in the 80m sprint. He now goes to the All-Ireland at the end of July in Tullamore. Well done also to Thady Finucane, who came third in the hammer — both are pupils of Athea NS. Ballydonoghue/ Lisselton RESULTS: N.K. Junior League Semi-Final. This was our best performance so far this year as we took on a very strong Ballyduff side and for 50mins we matched them in every area and were looking good to be the eventual winners. But in the final 10 mins Ballyduff's experience in a few vital areas made the difference and they scraped through by a single point. There were some fine individual performances for Ballydonoghue but goalkeeper Shane Thornton has to get a special mention for some superb saves that helped keep Ballydonoghue's hopes alive right up to the final whistle. Final score Ballyduff (0-10) Ballydonoghue ( 0-9). U14 N.K. League Div1. Ballydonoghue lost out to Listowel after putting in a very brave performance, that saw the sides level at half time. But in the final Qtr the stronger Listowel side took control and ran out easy winners. Final score Listowel ( 3-17) Ballydonoghue (3-4). FIXTURES: Co. Senior League Div 4 Rd 6. Ballydonoghue play Tuosist Sat. 1st July in Tuosist at 8:00p.m. Ballydonoghue minors play Asdee/Bally Monday 3rd July in Ballylongford at 8:00p.m. U16 Co. League Div4 Rd 1, Ballydonoghue play Currow Wed 28th June in Currow at 7:30p.m. U16 Co. League Div4 Rd 2, Ballydonoghue play Listowel Wed. 5th July in Listowel at 7:30p.m. U14 N.K.League Div 1 Ballydonoghue play Na Gaeil Monday 3rd July in Coolard at 7:30p.m. U12 Co. League Ballydonoghue play Fossa Sunday 2nd July in Fossa at 7:00p.m. MUNSTER FOOTBALL FINAL: Anyone requiring tickets for the Munster Final should contact Pat Griffin before Monday 3rd July. SYMPATHY: The Club extends its sympathy to the Brennan/Scanlon families on the death of Johnny Brennan Ballyconry. CHARITY WALK; Walk in aid of The Kerry Parents & Friends Assoc. will be held on Sunday 2nd July, starting at 1pm sharp at Cnoc An Oir and continuing on the Shannon Way to Tarbert, enquiries to 086/8196404. COLLECTION: The Listowel branch of The National Council for the Blind are holding their annual church gate collection at masses this weekend, July 1st/2nd, at Ballydonoghue church. Your support will be greatly appreciated. COMMUNITY GAMES: Last weekend, our athletes competed in the county finals in glorious sunshine in Tralee. We had success in the field events where Niamh Foley won bronze in the shot putt with a throw of 7.78 metres. Wayne Dowling also came fourth in the shot putt with a distance of 8.95m. In the under 12 ball throw, Billy Joy had a personal best of 53.8m to win the bronze medal. Well done to our athletes who competed with such enthusiasm. Many thanks to Margaret O'Neill for all the preparation with the athletes, and to Martina and Mike Joy for their coaching with the shot putt and ball throw. DANCING: Lisselton School of Dancing prizewinners at Tarbert Feis. Single Jig u8-2nd Sarah Barry, 3rd Cora O'Mahony, Tara O’Shea and Clodagh Mason. Slow Jig u10-1st Ann Marie Francis (trophy). 2nd, Laura Mason. Girls hornpipe u10, 1st Ann Marie Francis (trophy), 3rd Laura Mason. Solo Reel u10, 1st Ann Marie Francis (trophy), 2nd Laura Mason. Tarbert c’ship u10, Dances, St. Patrick's Day and blackbird, 2nd Ann Marie Francis, 3rd Laura Mason. With just six girls from Lisselton primary school taking part in the feis, they were a credit to their parents and teachers, dancing master, Jimmy Hickey, winning prizes in all of their dances. Well done girls. DEATHS: The death has occured of Johnny Brennan, Ballyconry. Sympathy is extended to his brother, Thomas, nephews, nieces and extended family. Internment took place in Killahenny on Saturday. Sympathy is extended to Sean and Margaret Moran and family, Tullamore, on the death of Sean's sister, Ann Mahon, Dun Laoire, Dublin, at the weekend. Internment took place in Dublin. Ballyduff Notes Lotto: The results of the Ballyduff Community Centre and Lady's Walk Hurling Club weekly Lotto Draw for Monday June 12th are as follows:The numbers drawn were: 5,11,18,23 There was no jackpot winner. The following won ?50 each Nellie Hennessy, The Village Teasie O' Connor, Lacca West. T.V. Draw Frank Mulvihill, Lacca Ryan O' Leary, Clash Margaret Barron, Clash Tusnua Summer Camp: The Tusnua Aummer Camp will be held at O' Connor's, Lacca commencing on July 17th from 10am to 1pm daily. Enrolement is also been taken for September next. Please contact Joanne on 0879937412. Death: The death took place of Seamus O' Sullivan, The Bridge, Ballyduff and formerly of Kilmoyley. His remains were removed from Lawlor's Funeral Home to S.S. Peter's and Paul's Church Ballyduff. Burial was in Rahela Cemetry. Sympathy is extended to his family, relatives and friends. Meeting: A very important meeting of the Ballyduff Hurling and Football Club will be held at Ballyduff National School on this Thursday night June 29th at 9.30pm. All officers, Executive Committee and members are requested to attend. Kennedy Cup: Congratulations to Jason Bowler, Tower Drive and Cathal White, Ardoughter who were members of the Kerry Under 13 Soccer team that participated in the Kennedy Cup Tournament in Limerick recently. Kerry finished in 11th place overall. 32 teams competed in this annual competition which took place in the U-L complex. Both players play locally with Listowel Celtic. Ballyduff GAA News Féile na nGael: Congratulations to the Ballyduff U14 hurlers who performed magnificently to reach the semi final of Division 3 at the annual Féile na nGael hurling Championship at Cork over the weekend.In their outing they defeated the host club Mayfield on a 3-10 to 3-7 scoreline. Ballyduff scorers were Kevin O'Connor 2-1, Pádraig Boyle 1-4, Eric O'Connor 0-2, Keith O'Carroll, Pat Joe Connolly, Cathal White 0-1 each. Ballyduff participated in the Féile Parade along with the other participating clubs through the streets of Cork on Friday evening. On Saturday morning they had a 5-6 to 1-6 victory over St. Vincents of Cork having led 3-3 to 1-4 at half time. A scoring burst of 2-2 within three minutes of the restart set Ballyduff up for a 15 point victory and some of the panel getting a run out in the competition. The scorers were Kevin O'Connor 3-0, Pádraig Boyle 1-2, Eric O'Connor 1-1, Keith O'Carroll 0-2 and Cathal White 0-1. In their final game of Group A Ballyduff were pitted against Kiltale of Meath and following a close affair Ballyduff emerged victorious 3-6 to 2-5 ensuring a place in the Division 3 semi-final later on Saturday evening. Ballyduff scorers were Cathal White 2-0, Eric O'Connor 1-3, Kevin O'Connor 0-2, Pádraig Boyle 0-1. Ballycastle of Co. Antrim provided the opposition in the semi-final at the Glen Rovers pitch with a large crowd present. The more physical Northern side had the advantage fo the stiff breeze for the first halfand led 1-2 to 0-0 after five minutes. Ballyduff however came more into the game and an Eric O'Connor goal five minutes from the break saw the sides go in level at half time 1-4 each.Balycastle scored two quick goals after the break but Ballyduff refused to lie down with Pádraig Boyle pointing from play and Cathal White deflecting a "65" to the net to set up an exciting finale. Further points from Boyle and White reduced the margin to the minimum but a Ballycastle goal followed by a pointed free saw the lead back to five points. A second Cathal White goal reduced the margin once more and despite tremendous pressure from our boys the lads from Antrim held out for a narrow victory after an excellent contest. Ballyduff lined out as follows; Nicholas Leen; Daniel O'Connell, Anthony O'Carroll, Kevin O'Grady; Kevin Lynch, Jason Bowler (Capt) 0-1, Dean O'Grady;Keith O'Carroll 0-2, Eric O'Connor 1-0; Pat Joe Connolly, Pádraig Boyle 0-3, Kevin Bowler; Kevin O'Connor, Cathal White 2-1, Liam O'Brien. Subs; David Goulding, Nicholas Burke, Pádraig Slattery, Kieran O'Grady, Owen Douglas, Jonathan Ross, John Costello. Well done also to team mentors Diarmuid O'Carroll, Tomás O'Sullivan, John O'Grady and Barry O'Grady. A big Thank You to all parents and supporters who travelled to Cork over the weekend and to everybody else who helped in any way to make Féile 2006 an outstanding success. Míle Buiochas to our host club Mayfield for their welcome and hospitality throughout our stay and we look forward to returning the compliment in the near future. Senior Hurling: Ballyduff senior hurlers had a 1-15 to 1-9 victory over Crotta at Lixnaw on Friday of last week in the Quarter final of the North Kerry Senior Hurling Championship. Ballyduff were never in danger in this game and have now qualified for the semi-final of this competition. Friday's game also doubled as a County Senior Hurling League Division 1 game so two vital county league were also accumalated on the night. Ballyduff line-out; Giles O'Grady;Declan Bowler, David Slattery, David O'Grady, Ally O' Connor, Colm Boyle,Dieran Gibbons, Aido O' Sullivan (0-7), Mike Murphy, Mike Hennessy (0-5), Sean Costello, John Paul Leahy (1-2). Subs: Joe Murphy, John McCarthy. Fixtures: Wednesday June 28th County U16 Football Annascaul V Ballyduff at Annascaul 7.30pm. Thursday June 29th North Kerry Minor Hurling Abbeydorney V Ballyduff at Abbeydorney 6.30pm. Friday June 30th County U14 Hurling Final at Austin Stack Park 7.30pm Friday June 30th County Junior Football Quater-finals T.B.A. 8.00pm Sunday July 2nd County U12 Football Kenmare/Kilgarvin V Ballyduff at Kenmare 7.00pm Sunday July 2nd County S.F.L. Div 4 Duagh V Ballyduff at Duagh 2.30pm. Monday July 3rd North Kerry Minor Football Duagh V Ballyduff at Duagh 8.00pm Tuesday July 4th North Kerry Minor Hurling Ballyduff V Lixnaw at Ballyduff 6.30pm Wednesday July 5th County U16 Football Tarbert V Ballyduff at Tarbert 7.3 pm Thursday July 6th North Kerry U14 Hurling ballyduff V Kilmoyley at Ballyduff 6.30pm. Clounmacon THE organisers of the ICA outing to Killarney wish to convey their sincere thanks to all the non-members who travelled with them on the day and to the wonderful singers who kept everyone entertained on the coach. They also wish to thank the bus driver Noel Finucane for his patience on the journey. The next outing will be to Knock on August 17. CONGRATULATIONS . . . to Thomas Buckley, Coolaclarig, Listowel on winning three medals recently — one for Irish singing, one for English singing and one for lilting. DEATH: Sympathy of the community is extended to Mrs Kay Hanley, Gurtinard, Listowel on the recent death of her mother, Mrs Kitty Mulvihill, Foynes, County Limerick. KERRY LITERARY & CULTURAL CENTRE: Listowel Castle is now open to the public for guided tours. Tours are available daily from 9.30am to 4.30pm and depart from the Seanchaí Centre, The Square, Listowel. COMPUTER SUMMER CAMPS: Computer summer camps for 8-16 year olds will be held during July in Ballybunion and Tarbert IT Centres, depending on numbers. The classes will run from 10.30am to 1pm four days a week for the first three weeks of July. The cost is ?30 per child. For bookings telephone Ballybunion (068) 27888 or Tarbert (068) 36938. LOTTO results for June 14. Jackpot ?1,000 not won. Numbers drawn were 3, 10, 12, 18. Lucky Dip: ?50, John Murphy, Kerry Ingredients; ?30 each — Cathriona Kelliher, 5 Willowbrook; ?30, Trevanne Chute, 4 Feale Drive; ?20 each — Declan Finucane, Clounprohus; ?20 each — Sean Carey, 5 Willlowbrook. Next week’s jackpot is ?1,100 and draw takes place on Wednesday, June 21 in New Kingdom Bar at 9.30pm. Lotto results for June 21. Jackpot ?1,100 not won. Numbers drawn were 4, 9, 17, 24. Lucky Dip: ?50, David McElligott of Knockanure Village; ?30, Mary Goulding, 4 Liosarda; ?30, Nora Walsh, 11 Hawthorn Drive; ?20 each — Declan Carthy, Kerry Ingredients; Tommy Walsh, Kerry Ingredients. Next week’s Jackpot is ?1,200 and draw takes place on Wednesday, June 27 in New Kingdom Bar at 9.30pm. 
