sport football
{ Bill Browne 
    October 14 2016 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/roll-of-honour-35125845.html }
The deserving winners of the second Fermoy Areas Sports and Community Awards 2015/2016 have been unveiled and will be presented with their wards at a gala bash in the Corrin Events Centre on Saturday, November 12. Sponsored by the McCarthy Insurance Group, Fermoy Credit Union and the AIB, the awards acknowledge those individuals and groups whose work and achievements have made a significant impact on the local community.   Pat Morrissey, marketing officer with the Fermoy Credit Union, said the initiative, revived from the ashes of the former Fermoy Sports Awards, had generated huge interest within the local community.   "That was very much evident through the incredibly high standard of nominations, which highlighted the amazing people whose hard work and selfless dedication make the Fermoy area such a great place to live and work in," said Mr Morrissey.   The judging panel of Batt Arnold from TVM, Evening Echo editor Maurice Gubbins and Corkman reporter Bill Browne were handed the almost impossible job of selecting the category winners. Mr Morrissey said that given the exceptionally high standard of entry, he did not envy their task.   "The panel had quite a job to do in sorting through the nominations and choosing the category winners and I think they did a magnificent job. There was a great spread of winners from across the sporting and community fields," he said.   "It was our wish to see the efforts of these wonderful individuals and groups, which quite often go unnoticed, recognised and publicly acknowledged. I think people will agree that each of the recipients are thoroughly deserving of their accolades," said Mr Morrissey. Tickets for the gala bash on November 12 are available from Noel Barnes (086 384 9698) and Joe Slattery (086 820 7368), priced at €40. "The tickets are selling quickly, so my advice to people would be to get theirs straight way to avoid the disappointment of missing what promises to be a truly fantastic night," said Mr Morrissey. SPORTS TEAM/CLUB OF THE YEAR: Winner: Fermoy Rowing Club. Nominees: Fermoy Intermediate Ladies Footballers. Fermoy Ladies Gaelic Football Club. Fermoy GAA. Ballyhooly GAA. SPORTS CLUB PERSON OF THE YEAR: Winner: Jim Corcoran – Fermoy Soccer Club. Nominees: Noel O’Callaghan – Racquet Ball. Jackie Power – Swimming. Ray Morrison – Rowing Club. JUDGES AWARDS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS: Winner: COPE Foundation Parents and Friends Fundraising Committee. Nominees: Cuairteoiri Le Mhire (CLM). NRG Networking Group. YOUNG SPORTS PERSON OF THE YEAR: Winner: Laura Dennehy – Pony Dressage. Nominees: Sean Slattery – Swimming. Shane Hurley – Karate. Abbie Scannell – Football. FEMALE SPORTS PERSON OF THE YEAR: Winner: Ashling Hutchings – Ladies Football. Nominees: Joan Ennis – Athletics. Mary Barry – Athletics. MALE SPORTS PERSON OF THE YEAR: Winner: Cian Fennessy -Horse Racing. Nominee: Noel O’Callaghan – Racquetball. COMMUNITY GROUP/ORGANISATION OF THE YEAR: Winner: Palace Players – Theatre Nominees: Kilworth Festival. Cork Road Residents Association. Fermoy and District Rotary Club. Board of Management/Staff/Volunteers Resource Centre. VOLUNTEER OF THE YEAR: Winner: Meals on Wheels Service. Nominees: Tom Murray – COPE Foundation. Martha Brennan, Annette Twomey, Elaine Murphy – Golf. Blackwater Search and Rescue. Fermoy Tidy Towns. SPECIAL MERIT: Winner: Brendan Keane – Fermoy GAA. Nominees: John Fant/John Casey – Thomas Kent Pipe Band. Danny Higgins – Community Work. Dick O’Brien – Athletics. Fermoy/Ploemeur/Nowa Deba Twinng Association. HALL OF FAME: Joint Winners: Tom Burke – Cycling/Athletics. John Fenton (Posthumously) – GAA. Sports Team Club of the Year: Fermoy Rowing Club: “Founded in 1884, the club is held in high regard within rowing circles around Ireland. The winning attitude of the rowers is more than matched by the dedication of the club’s coaches who give their time freely. Ranked as one of the most successful junior club’s in Ireland, is developing its adult and pleasure rowing facilities.” Sports Club Person of the Year: Jim Corcoran – Fermoy Soccer Club: “Jim joined the club in 1970 and following a successful playing career became a member of the committee and has shown tremendous dedication to the club. A great fundraiser, Jim has been at the forefront of all-weather astro turf facility, the club’s biggest undertaking to date. Jim has given, and continues to give, tremendous service to the club and the community in general.” Judges Award for Special Needs: Cope Foundation Parents and Friends Fundraising Committee. “Since its foundation in 1999 the Cope Foundation has been supported by the parents association, which has worked tirelessly on a voluntary capacity to help fundraise to the residents can reach their full potential within the local community. This year they linked with the NRG Group to finance the purchase of a people carrier, a huge boost to the Foundation.” Young Sports Person of the Year: Laura Dennehy – Pony Dressage. “A member of the Irish dressage squad, Laura has competed internationally in Holland, Germany and Denmark and was on the first Irish team to compete in the Nations Team Cup in Hagen. She made history by being the first student to complete and sit her junior cert exams at the same time. The cooperation between the Department of Education and Dressage Ireland to facilitate this shows just how highly she is regarded within the sport.” Female Sports Person of the Year: Ashling Hutchings – Ladies Football. “Ashling won the All-Ireland senior championship with Cork and won county intermediate (2015) and senior B (2016) championships. A shining light within the club, leading by example both on and off the pitch, she always makes herself available for younger teams training camps and activities and has been the driving force behind the recent success of Fermoy ladies football.” Male Sports Person of the Year: Cian Fennessy – Horse Racing “Ranked fifth overall in Ireland, Cian won the southern Point-To-Point championship in 2016. Along the way he won 29 races, including the prestigious Gains Mare Final and three track winners. He also rode his 150th winner this year. Cian gives his time to young riders, offering them advice and overseeing riding schools and pony clubs during the summer. He also works for C103 giving tips for forthcoming meetings.” Community Group/Organisation of the Year: Palace Players – Theatre. “One of the most successful groups of its kind in the country, the Palace Players have enjoyed two outstanding years in 2015 and 2016, the highlight winning the Perpetual Trophy at All-Ireland Drama Festival with their play ‘Conversations on a Homecoming. Founded in 1989 by Liam Howard, the Players have won numerous others individual and group awards and have made an outstanding cultural contribution, providing live theatre of the highest standard to the local community.” Volunteer of the Year: Meals On Wheels Service: “Serving the community for 25-years, this service operates three days per-week providing up to 55 hot and nutritional meals to local people. An entirely voluntary service, it enables people to remain independent and live in their own homes for as long as possible.” Special Merit: Brendan Keane – Fermoy GAA: “Brendan has been an outstanding chairman of Fermoy GAA for seven-years and during that time has helped the club progress both on and off the field. Achievements include many notable success across GAA codes, with the juvenile, seniors and ladies clubs all having benefited from his skillful administration. Brendan is also involved in administration with the Fermoy Golf Club and previously served as the president of the Fermoy Musical Society.” Hall of Fame: Tom Burke, Cycling/Athletics and the late John Fenton, Fermoy GAA ”Born in 1937 Tom Burke joined Fermoy Cycling Club at an early age and won a number of County and Munster Cycling C’ship medals during his cycling carer. He was elected Secretary of Grange Athletic Club in 1963 and served for 21 very successful years, overseeing the development of the Club into one of the premier athletic clubs in the county. Tom’s major achievement was the development of the World Famous ‘Grange International Cross Country’ 10,000 meter race, which became the most important Cross Country race in Europe during the period 1976 to 1986. Tom’s whole career was dedicated to the promotion of athletics, as displayed by his involvement with Fermoy and District Harriers and so many other very important contributions to the sport”. “Recently deceased, John Fenton was very much regarded as the father figure of the GAA in Fermoy, where he had been actively involved since his early youth, and had been the club’s longest serving president, taking office in 1982. His playing career stretched from 1946 to the late 1960’s, during which he won various club hurling and football championships and played for his county. Even as a juvenile he was foreseeing and at the age of 16 suggested running under-16 hurling and football championships in the division. "A long career in administration saw him serve the club in many capacities including 12-years as chairman. He had also represented his club as treasurer and selector on the North Cork Juvenile Board and for the Cork Minor and North Cork Divisional Avondhu team”. Corkman 
