sport football
{ Will Slattery 
    December 24 2019 12:33 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/rugby/we-are-a-coming-sport-and-we-are-trying-to-build-something-meet-the-men-trying-to-put-irish-rugby-league-on-the-map-38800183.html }
“I don't buy into the old rugby league vs rugby union thing. Let’s embrace each other,” Stuart Littler says. The Ireland rugby league head coach isn’t biting on the rugby dispute that dates back over a 100 years, as he offers his assessment on where his sport stands on the Irish sporting landscape. The former international has been the Ireland head coach since 2018, as well as being the team’s record try-scorer, so if anyone is qualified to help carve out a spot in the country’s sporting sphere, it’s him. On the field, things have been a success of late; Ireland booked their place at the 2021 World Cup last month with two impressive playoff wins over Spain and Italy. Off the field, the challenge remains the same; getting more young sportspeople playing a sport that is at the same time both extremely familiar and unconscionably alien to them. While there are undoubtedly a huge number of young players who could turn their hand to rugby league, such is its lack of an imprint that it is fair to ask, why would any Irish youngster play league when they could play union? To be fair to Littler, he has an answer – why not play both. "I don't see it as competing against union, I see it as working together to create more opportunities," he says. "Rugby league is my sport but I think kids should have access to all sports and then make their own decision. There are a lot of transferable skills in other sports. Rugby union springs to mind straight away. Gaelic football has a lot of transferable skills. Ronan Michael, who is at Huddersfield now, he started out as a Gaelic footballer. A lot of the kids where I live now play rugby all year - union in the winter and league in the summer." Michael is one of Irish rugby league’s biggest success stories in recent years. The Balbriggan native only took up the sport as a 17-year-old in 2017, playing for the Longhorns in the Irish domestic league. He caught the eye of English side Huddersfield Giants and has since gone on to secure a senior deal with Super League team. And while the majority of Littler’s senior squad are English-born players with Irish backgrounds, increasingly he is looking to include players who have come through the Irish system. Homegrown talents like Matthew Coade and James Mulvaney made their debuts in the World Cup playoffs, while Matthew Towey from the Galway Tribesmen was another who was selected in the squad. Towey fits into the aforementioned bracket outlined by Littler, a player who pulls on the Galwegians jersey during the AIL season, while also playing rugby league. Getting to play rugby of any description in the summer is one of the many attractions for him – as is one day hopefully pulling on the green jersey. "It's played during the summer, the pitches are firm, the pace of the game is good," Towey said. "If you get a bit of open field, you aren't going to get caught slogging through mud. The Rugby League World Cup is in England in 2021 and I'd have that as a goal too." In terms of how to further push the sport, Littler hopes that in the near future, one of the Irish club sides might be ready to go professional and compete in the lower leagues in England, in a similar manner to some Welsh outfits. The Longhorns, based in Ashbourne, will compete in the English Challenge Cup, one of rugby league’s oldest and most prestigious tournaments, for the third time in 2020 and Littler is optimistic that this can be a crucial springboard. "Having a professional team would be a big help," Littler says. "That would be progress. You might not go up the leagues but you might get more players signed up the following years. It would be ideal in the future if we had a team based in Ireland because at the moment if you reach a certain level, you have to go over to England, or France or Australia to get a bit more money or to reach that next level. "In Wales they have sides in the lower leagues and then you have players getting identified by clubs because they are coming through the pathway. We are trying to grow it and the dream is that we have a team in Ireland that provides a proper pathway for players." Although Littler – a teacher by day who combines his Ireland role with the head coaching job at English Championship side Swinton Lions - isn’t targeting rugby union players to come into his set-up, he thinks that rugby league could be an attractive option for players who aren’t able to secure a professional contract in Ireland. "You might not have been picked up by Leinster or Munster but there is an alternative pathway. You might make a good living in that. If we can provide an opportunity... we have talented players and they can play at that level." For Matthew Towey, a professional rugby league career may be some way off in the distance but his exposure to the international set-up alongside established professionals in England such as Bob Beswick and Ethan Ryan was invaluable experience for a player who only started in the sport in 2014. "It was a big step up in terms of the organisation and the composure they [the international players] have," he said. "I work full-time as an engineer. I prepare as best I can but these guys are professionals. It's the level of detail they go into in defence and everywhere else, little pointers that I can take and bring back. "I learned more control and the extra 1% in terms of how to slow down a tackle to allow our defensive line to get set earlier. And when we are running our attack lines, to change some animations or get more detail added to my role for when we are in a strike zone and we want to score. I can pass on the information I get from those senior sessions to when I'm training with my club, where we are all amateur. "There were a number of rugby league coaches who would be watching the Ireland U19 games and were watching our club games against the English reserve sides. It is definitely an option for players [to go professional]. If someone wants to pursue sport professionally, rugby league is definitely a pathway to do that." For Littler, he wants there to be a cohort of homegrown players involved in his squad so that when they return to their clubs, they can impart some of the wisdom they have picked up from professional players and coaches. "We had Matthew Towey in camp and even though he didn't get a game I told him that he needs to be a leader with the club side because he has been in camp with us and knows those standards," Littler said. "He needs to push himself over the next two years to get into that World Cup squad. He needs to go back now and be our leader in the team below and raise the standards in that team so we are all singing off the same hymn sheet." The long-term goals remain the 2021 World Cup and getting a professional team in Ireland, while in the short-term, Littler is targeting a strong showing at the European championships in 2020. And while growing the sport substantially may be an ambitious target given where rugby league currently sits in the Irish sporting pecking order, the 40-year-old is determined to bring the sport that he loves to as many Irish people as possible. "Everyone who comes seems to enjoy it, we are getting a bit more notice and a bit more interaction with the press," he says. "Every World Cup we have qualified for, we have given it a go. "The board have good links with Sport Ireland. We are trying to grow and improve what we are doing and get access to more funding for things like schools programmes and development programmes.  "We are a coming sport and we are trying to build something." Online Editors 
