sport football
{  
    March 04 2017 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/localnotes/around-the-districts-35487422.html }
GAA club news: The senior footballers were beaten 1-7 to 0-12 at home to St James in the Tommy Murphy Cup semi-final last Saturday. They play Gusserane in the first round of the league this weekend. Ryan Harris was on the WIT team recently beaten in the third level Tench Cup final. Last week's lotto numbers were 7, 12, 18 and 24. Match-three winners were Tia Fuhrmann, Patricia Barry, Francis Fortune, Bernie Dillon, Natasha Delaney, Pat Murphy. Next Mondays draw is in White's, Foulksmills, and the jackpot is €3,400. Coiste na nÓg The Dunbrody Gaels drew 1-5 to 0-8 at home to Starlights in the first round of the premier football championship in stormy conditions last Sunday. They trailed 0-6 to 0-1 at half time and despite scoring 1-1 early in the second half they failed to push on and allowed their opponents back into the game. They play away to St Martin's on Sunday at 11 a.m. Camogie Camogie training will begin next Wednesday, March 1, for all age groups. Registration for the year will take place the same night. The times are under-eights 6.30-7.15 registration cost €15. Under-10 and under-12s 7.15-8 registration cost €35. Under-14 and under-16s 8-9 registration cost €35. Under-18s 9-10 registration cost €35. Adults €45. Other members €10 and a family of three €90. We hope to see you all there. Campile Hall AGM The annual general meeting of Campile Hall Committee will be held on Wednesday, March 22, in Campile Hall at 8 p.m. All are welcome to attend, particularly those groups and organisations who use the hall on a regular basis, and anyone who intends to use the hall in the future. Contacts and Deadlines Please email any articles for publication in the Standard by 9 a.m. on Monday mornings at grooney@hotmail.com. Find the Joker Last week's winner was Ger Foxe with card number 19 being turned to reveal the three of clubs. The jackpot this week gone was up to €420. Thanks to everyone who bought tickets this week and please keep supporting. Get to Whites, The Shop Foulksmills or McDonaghs in Geoffsbridge, alternatively any of the players will help you for a chance to win in the Friday night draw. Stoney Results Last weekend's results were: Stoney A team lost 5-1 away to Shelburne Utd in Division two, while the B team lost on a 4-1 score line away to Premier Division team Curracloe in the Wexford Cup. Fashion Show A Monster Fashion Show will take place on Friday, March 10, in Horse and Hound, Ballinaboola, at 7.30 p.m. Come along to view the amazing collections from: Pamela Scott, Wallaces, Charles Pierce, Lu Lu Boutique, Candy and the Loft. Watch our wonderful models as they take to the catwalk including teachers, pupils members of the local GAA Club, The Forge Vintage Club and the Rosebuds. Enjoy your free goodie bag and browse through our pre-loved accessories stall while you sample the tasty treats from our cake sale. There will be some great spot prizes on the night, including vouchers for many shops. All of the proceeds on the night will be in aid of Clongeen NS Ticket costs are only €10 and can be purchased from the school, Foulksmills Post Office or from any member of the parents' association or board of management. Many thanks to our sponsors who include Aroma Health and Beauty, Foxehair, Mick Delahunty and Mythens. Clongeen Ladies' Football The Clongeen Ladies' Football team commence their league campaign this Saturday, March 4, at 5 p.m. v Clonee B at home in Fr Wheeler Park. Your support would be greatly appreciated. Also, congratulations to our county girls of Trina Sinnott and Emer Cahill in football and to Chloe Foxe in camogie on their great wins last weekend, from all their teammates - well done, girls. Minor Football News Hard luck to Moguegeen Gaels (Clongeen-Fethard) minor footballers who were beaten by Fr Murphys (Monageer-Buffers Alley) on Sunday morning last on a scoreline of 3-6 to 0-10. They play Aughermon Gaels (Taghmon-Bannow-Ballymitty) next Sunday at 11 a.m. in Clongeen where all your support would be really appreciated. Coiste Na nÓg Clongeen Coiste na nÓg will hold a registration night this Friday, March 3, from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the clubhouse. Over-35s Soccer Again we have a good turnout of 15 players for the weekly over-35s kick about in Grantstown last Saturday afternoon. As per normal, a really enjoyable game was played and finished on a 6-4 scoreline. Again, a few guys are turning up a bit late, so please make a decent effort to get there no later than 4.20 p.m. to enable a prompt kick-off at 4.30 p.m. Newcomers are always welcome so if you'd like to find out more, give Dave a call to get your number on the text list. His number is 086 8596627 and would welcome any inquiries. The cost for the facilities are only €5 per player. School Enrolments Clongeen National School complete taking enrolments for September 2017 this Wednesday, March 1. The Department of Education requires details of intending enrolments for the 2017/2018 school year. Please contact Martina or Margaret in the school office for enrolment forms who can be contacted via phone at 051 565 713 or via email at clongeenns@eircom.net. As mentioned, the deadline is tomorrow, Wednesday, March 1, so if you haven't yet, please contact the school immediately. Parent, baby and Toddler Group The Clongeen Parent, Baby and Toddler Group opens on Wednesdays from 9.30 a.m. till 11.30 a.m. in the Sunshine Room in Clongeen National School. Our charge is €4 per adult (children are free) which covers refreshments. The group is lots of fun with activities for the children which is a brilliant way for parents to meet and make new friends. We are always welcoming new faces and hope you will join us this year from either inside or outside of the parish. Study Group The Clongeen study group continues for both junior and Leaving Cert exam students. The study group which is being held in Clongeen National School every Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. costs €5 per week. All supervisors of the group is Garda vetted and places are limited. For more information please feel free to contact Anita at 086 0795302. Ballycullane NS Ballycullane National School is holding a 5K/10K run or walk on Sunday, March 12. Registration commences at 9 a.m. on the day and the cost is €10 per person (over 16), €5 per person (under 16) or €25 for a family of up to four people. The race starting time is scheduled for 10 a.m. Free beginner computer classes Would you like to learn about connecting to the internet, setting up an email account, online shopping, booking holidays, using skype, internet safety, social media and lots more, for free, in a relaxed, friendly atmosphere? Then why not contact Theresa at 087 2260936 to book your free place. The start date is Wednesday, March 8, in the Rower hall. All equipment will be provided, so there is no need to bring any laptops. Theresa has over 20 years' experience and welcomes everyone to her classes. Classes will be two hours long, every Wednesday, running from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. for five weeks. The classes are free but participants are asked to donate €2 per week for room rental. Please note that class numbers are limited so please book early to avoid disappointment. Cookery demos in Cois Abhainn The first of these exciting demos is 'Cooking with Seaweed' which will be held this Saturday, March 4, from midday to 5 p.m. Booking is essential by February 27. Please contact Josette at 087 7596558. Join Marie Power, aka the Sea Gardener, to learn more about seaweed and how to use it in everyday cooking, in the garden and for skin care. Participants will enjoy a tasty lunch based on this unique wild food. Marie has been foraging seaweed for 10 years and is author of the Sea Garden - a guide to seaweed foraging and cookery, and now produces a range of healthy snacks with seaweed. Seaweed, or sea vegetables, are a native source of minerals, vitamins and micro-nutrients, and were an important part of the coastal diet since people settled in Ireland. On Saturday, March 11, from midday to 5 p.m. enjoy a demo on bread making by Breda Coady and on April 1, vegetarian cooking by Breda also. Please note that booking is essential. Weekly lotto There was no winner of last week's club lotto jackpot of €9,100 so next week's jackpot stands at €9,100. This week's match-three winner is Patrick Barden, who won the €100. The winning numbers were 4, 13, 28 and 31 and bonus number 36. Fethard St Mogue's GAA Congratulations to Daire Barden and Mikie Dwyer, who featured on the Wexford under-21 football team that defeated Carlow by 1-18 to 0-8 last Wednesday night. Daire managed to roam up from his wing-back position to score a point in the second half while Mikie was a threat to the Carlow defence all night scoring 1-2, with his goal putting the result beyond doubt. They are away again to Offaly next Wednesday night. John Tubritt featured on the Wexford Senior football team that defeated Waterford in Wexford Park last Sunday. John contributed a point in another impressive display. The senior footballers lost out to Gusserane in the Tommy Murphy Cup semi-final last Saturday in Gusserane. Soup Day Colclough Hall Committee are holding a Soup Day on Sunday, March 19, in Colclough Hall, Saltmills, all are welcome to come along on the day. Lip Sync Battle Well done to all who took part in our Lip Sync Battle in Molloy's last Saturday night and in particular to our contestants Joanne Molloy and Larry Meyler (Cher and Meat Loaf), Eddie Power and John Tubritt (Rubberbandits), Laura McEvoy, Seán Donohoe and Mairead Murphy (Kanye West and Jamie Foxx), Pat White and Chris Casey (John Travolta and Olivia Newton John), Martin Power and Ricky Rowe (Ricky Martin), Tommy Power (Britney Spears), Megan Murphy, Ciara Walsh and Eimear Whelan (Destiny's better looking cousins), Mark Wallace (The Flasher). A huge crowd turned up to witness a great night's entertainment. Megan Murphy, Ciara Walsh and Eimear Whelan's version of It's Raining Men proved to be the most popular act with the audience on the night winning the first prize which was sponsored by Molloy's Bar followed closely by Pat White and Chris Casey with Joanne Molloy and Larry Meyler, who made a spectacular entrance on a motorbike in third place. Scrap Metal collection St Mogue's Ladies' Club would like to thank everyone who donated their scrap metal to the club on Saturday and previous days. We would also like to thank all those who gathered the scrap during the week and helped on the day. The club thanks everyone for their continued support. Fitness Circuit Classes Fethard fitness and circuit classes in St Mary's Hall on Monday and Wednesday evenings at 7 p.m. New beginner Friday class starting soon. Personal and group training sessions also available, contact Nuala 087 9111901. Progressive 45 The winners of the Progressive 45 Card Game in Colclough Hall, Saltmills, last Sunday night were Tommy Morrissey, Billy Shannon and Tony Murphy. In second place were Sonny Cahill, Maura Cahill and Michael Murphy. In third place were John Sinnott, James McDonald and Aidan Colfer. The winners of the last game draw were Luke Power, Jack Waters and Michael Kehoe the raffle winners were Mary White, Dick Power, Carmel Kehoe and Elish Breen. Step and Tone Classes New Step and Tone Classes in St Mary's Hall, Fethard-on-Sea, on Friday nights at 10 p.m., also circuit classes in Ramsgrange CS Gym on Mondays at 7.30 p.m. and St Mary's Hall, Fethard, on Wednesday at 10 a.m. All fitness levels welcome and catered for, contact Maureen at 087 7479258. Community Employment Scheme Would you like to join our team at South West Wexford Family Resource Centre and gain valuable work experience and training on our CE Scheme? While you are on the CE Scheme and you have worked your 19.5 hours, you are also entitled to take on another job outside of the project. We have vacancies in childcare where you can gain your national certificate over a period of time at QQI Level 5 and 6 while working alongside other qualified staff. Our community café is also looking for a person to work in this friendly and social environment meeting staff and members of the community. Training is also available to you. We are also recruiting for a secretary/receptionist at the parish office to support the parish priest in administration. Please contact Tilly Carroll, CE scheme supervisor, at 051 389418 for application form or pick one up at reception. Please ensure you are registered with DSP. St Louis Day Care Centre St Louis Day Care Centre, Ramsgrange, 051 389509. Assisted home living for the elderly. Meals on Wheels delivered daily, day care services, home baking services, medical services and counselling including bereavement support. Chiropody and hair dressing services by appointment. Ballycullane NS 10K Run Ballycullane national school is holding 5K/10K Rrn/walk on Sunday, March 12. Registration at 9 a.m. on the day. Race starting time 10 a.m. Entry fee €10 per person (over 16), €5 per person (under-16), €25 per family of four. Facebook page Ballycullane NS. Hosted by the parents' association. Hope you all come along and enjoy the walk/run. School enrolments St Leonards National School is now accepting enrolements for September 2017. If you wish to enrol your child and have not done so yet. Please contact the school at 051 562570. Saint Padre Pio Saint Padre Pio monthly mass will take place in Ballycullane Church tomorrow night, Wednesday, March 1, at 7.30 p.m. preceeded by Rosary at 7.10 p.m. Cards Winners of the card game in St Leonards hall on Saturday night last were Kathleen Cadogan, Joan Kehoe and Kitty Roche; joint second were Alice Gaffney, Pat Murray and Billy Shannon; Nick Doyle, Johnny Flynn and Peter Stafford; John Joe Murphy, Sonny Cahill and Jimmy Cullen. Winners of the last game draw were Maureen Eustuce, Joan Fardy and Charlie Collins. Raffle winners on the night were Michael Murphy, Sonny Cahill, Charlie Collins and Nick Doyle. The cards continue every Saturday night at 8.30 p.m. Your support would be greatly appreciated. Lotto There was no jackpot winner in the Tintern lotto draw last week. Mairead Redmond, Cloonagh, was the only match-three winner and she received €200. The numbers drawn were 6, 12, 13 and 28. Next week's jackpot will be €16,400 and next week's match-three winners will share €200. Tickets on sale in all local shops and from committee members. Ballycullane NS run/walk Ballycullane National School parents' association is hosting a 5km and 10km run/walk on Sunday, March 12. Entry is €10 per person for over-16s, €5 per person for under-16s, or €25 for a family of four. Registration is at 9 a.m. on the day with the race commencing at 10 a.m. For further information please see Ballycullane NS on Facebook or contact a member of the Ballycullane NS parents' association. All are welcome to enjoy the event. Gusserane Ladies' Football Club Gusserane Ladies' Football Club would like to thank eveyrone who came out in all weather for their 5km walks the last seven weeks. OT leader Mairead Redmond would like to say a huge congratulations on how much everyone has progressed in six weeks, it's inspirational, to the community from week one to now there's been more and more people and fitness has soared through the roof. Thanks also to Norman O'Neill, who turned on the lights each week, Gusserane O'Rahillys for the use of the pitch every Tuesday, anyone who helped with parking, water and also for the confectionary. Thanks to everyone who donated also without you it would not have been such a success. So keep it up and keep moving. Pictures from the walks are available on Gusserance LGFA on Facebook. Well done to Ashling Murphy and the Wexford Ladies' Footballers on winning against a Leitrim in the league campaign on Sunday. Well done to Shauna Hackett on making the under-15 Development Squad and to Eabha Cullen, Aisling Ryan and Cora Hackett on making the under-13 Development Squad. Keep up the hard work ladies and keep flying the flag for Gusserane. Our ladies are first to take the field for the first match of the year for the club and hoping to get off to a winning start this Sunday, March 5, in Gusserane Park 5.30 p.m. Come out and support the girls - sure what else would you be at on a Sunday evening? Training times for teams this week as follows: Ladies: Wednesday 7.30 p.m. and Friday at 8 p.m. under-14 Tuesday at 7 p.m. to 7.45 p.m. Home Living St Louis Day Care Centre in Ramsgrange provides a range of services to assist the elderly in their homes. These services include meals on wheels (daily), home baking, day care, medical care, counselling including bereavement support, chiropody and hairdressing (by appointment). For more information phone 051 389509. Cards Winners in the hall in Gusserane last week were Kieran Keating and Johnny Colfer. Second went to Billy Power, Alice Gaffney and Margaret O'Neill. Third were Tom Culleton, Billy Shannon and Brendan Colfer while the last game draw went to Declan Egan, Noel Redmond and Marie Doyle. Raffle winners were Noel Redmond, Tom Corcoran, Brendan Colfer and Johnny Cogley. Padre Pio Ash Wednesday mass on March 1 will also remember the Capuchin monk Padre Pio in St Martin's Church in Ballycullane this coming Wednesday, at 7.30 p.m. It will be preceded by recital of the Rosary. All welcome to attend. Community Hospital The church gate collection at masses in Gusserane on the weekend of March 11 will be in aid of the New Ross Community Hospital. Your support would be most welcome. Ladies' Football Gusserane LGFA would like to congratulate Mairead Redmond on how far she has come in six weeks. They are very proud of her and would like to acknowledge the inspiration that Mairead has provided for others to turn up at the pitch each night and get active. Thanks to Norman O'Neill, who turned lights on for the club each week and to Gusserane O'Rahillys for providing the pitch every Tuesday for the walk. Thanks also to those who helped with parking, water and provided confectionery on the final night. Thanks to everyone who donated money each night also. Well done to Aisling Murphy and the Wexford ladies' footballers on their win against Leitrim in the league campaign on Sunday. Well done to Shauna Hackett on making the under-15 development squad and to Eabha Cullen, Aisling Ryan and Cora Hackett on making the under-13 Development Squad. Keep up the hard work, ladies, and keep flying the flag for Gusserane. Gusserane's ladies will be lining out in their first game of the year in Gusserane this Sunday, March 5, at 5.30 p.m. and look for your support once again. Lotto There was no jackpot winner in the Tintern lotto last week when the numbers drawn were 6, 12, 13 and 28. This week's jackpot stands at €16,400. Well done however to Mairead Redmond of Cloonagh, who was the sole match-three winner and won €200. GAA Last weekend was a good one for the local club with the senior footballers continuing on winning ways. They accounted for a determined Fethard team in difficult conditions in Tom Somers Park on Saturday afternoon on a scoreline of 1.07 to 0.06. They now progress to play St James in the final of the Tommy Murphy Cup at a date yet to be confirmed. On Sunday the minor footballers made the journey to Maudlintown in Wexford Town where they took on the local team in their spectacular playing field. The Gusserane boys put in a great performance to emerge victorious on a scoreline of 8.08 to 1.04. All teams that use the Gusserane club's facilities for matches and training are reminded that they need to pre-book with Michael McCormack. The All County football leagues throw in this weekend. Find Gusserane on Facebook and follow @GORahillys on Twitter to stay up to date with fixtures and results. Club Membership Club membership is now due for the coming year. Under insurance guidelines it is essential that all members have their membership paid in full before they can play any matches or partake in training. Please ensure your membership is renewed Féile News Our club will host Féile this June. An information evening for Féile 2017 will take place on Tuesday, February 28, at 7 p.m. in the clubhouse, a parent from all under-14 hurling and camogie players to attend. Anyone interested in helping out is most welcome to come along too. A table quiz will take place on March 16 in the Horse and Hound - this is a fundraiser to help cover the cost of Féile. All support will be greatly appreciated. If anybody would like to sponsor a prize please contact any committee member. Rathgarogue-Cushinstown Community Games Soccer: Well done to our girls' soccer team (Meya Murphy, Eibhlin McHale, Katie Mae McCarty, Sophie Kennedy, Neela Barron, Milly Sutton, Eimear Porter, Caitlin Gaffney, Tara Roache and Emma Rossiter) who won out their games, and now represent Co Wexford in the Leinsters. Art: Well done to all who competed in the arts in Rathgarogue Community Hall recently. Details will be coming shortly. Swimming: Well done to all who competed in the swimming in Enniscorthy on Wednesday. The following being held soon, athletics, camogie and ladies' football under-14s, hurling under-11, boys' football under-12s. All participants must reside in the Rathgarogue-Cushinstown Community Games boundary area. As games are commencing from February all must be registered and email above address with which activity you are interested in as soon as possible so committee can sort teams. Ballycullane NS Ballycullane national school are holding 5/10K Run/walk on Sunday, March 12, Entry Registration at 9 a.m. on the day €10 per person (over 16). €5 per person (under-16) at 10 a.m. €25 per family (four). Facebook page Ballycullane NS. Hosted by the parents' association. Hope you all come along and enjoy the walk/run Walk Gusserane Ladies' Football Club would like to thank everyone for coming out in all weathers for our 5k walks the last eight weeks. Our OT leader Mairead Redmond flying around the pitch last Tuesday. We would like to say a huge congratulations on how far you have come in six weeks - it's inspirational, we are very very proud of you. To our community from week one to now there's been more and more people and fitness has soared through the roof. Thanks to Norman O'Neill, who turned lights on for us each week. Gusserane O'Rahillys for the pitch every Tuesday. Anyone, who helped with parking, water and also for the confectionary. Thanks to everyone who donated also without you it wouldn't have been such a success. So keep it up and Keep moving. Well done Well done to Ashling Murphy and the Wexford ladies' footballers on winning against Leitrim in the league campaign on Sunday. Well done to Shauna Hackett on making the under-15 development squad and to Eabha Cullen, Aisling Ryan and Cora Hackett on making the uunder-13 development squad. Keep up the hard work, ladies, and keep flying the flag for Gusserane. Our ladies are first to take the field for the first match of the year for the club and hoping to get off to a winning start this Sunday, March 5, in Gusserane Park 5.30 p.m. Come out and support the girls - sure what else would you be at on a Sunday evening? Best of luck Women training times for teams this week as follows: Ladies: Wednesday 7.30 p.m. and Friday at 8 p.m. Under-14 Tuesday at 7 p.m. to 7.45 p.m. Estension Tenders invited for a small extension to St Martin's Church Hall, Ballycullane. Please apply for more information to the parish secretary, Ballycullane at 051 562123. Arrangements for Lent Tomorrow Wednesday is the first day of March. It is also Ash Wednesday, and the first day of Lent. Blessed ashes will be distributed after 7.30 p.m. Mass in Newbawn tomorrow (Wednesday) evening, and after the 9.30 a.m. mass in Raheen. Fr Moynihan will attend the housebound in the Newbawn area on Thursday morning commencing at 9 a.m., and Raheen housebound after mass on Friday morning Weekday masses for Lent will be as follows. Morning Mass in Newbawn on Tuesday at 10 a.m. Mass on Thursday evenings at 7.30 p.m. Raheen mass on Wednesday and Friday mornings at 9.30 a.m. and in Raheen on Monday next, March 6, at 7.30 p.m. Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament in the Oratory at Newbawn each Tuesday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. and in Raheen church on Wednesdays between 10 and 11 a.m. Preparation is well under way now for the sacrament of confirmation that takes place in Newbawn on March 10, with those to receive the sacrament going on retreat last Tuesday, March 21. Saturday night mass in Newbawn is at 7.45 p.m. and Sunday morning Mass is at 11 a.m. GAA events The local intermediate football team had their first win of the season at the week-end when they came out on top against home team Clongeen in the Tom Hickey Shield competition on a final score of St Abban's 2-12 Clongeen 2-5. They went under to the Gusserane senior team on a score of 3-12 to 2-7 in the Tommy Murphy cup competition the previous Saturday evening week. The groupings for this year's local club championship's were made recently. Our Intermediate hurlers will play teams in the following order: Monageer-Boolavogue, Shamrocks, Blackwater, Rathgarogue-Cushinstown, and Crossabeg-Ballymurn. Our Intermediate footballers will play in the following order: Clongeen, Rosslare, Bunclody, St Fintan's, and Ferns. Our junior footballers will play in the following order: Ballyhogue, Marshalstown, Clongeen, Gusserane and Monageer-Boolavogue. The junior hurlers will play in the New Ross district championship. Both the Wexford senior hurling and football teams have been successful in recent league games and our local St Abban's club had players in action on both. The hurlers defeated Limerick on a final score of 1-14 to 0-14 in Wexford Park and they defeated Galway in Salthill on a score of 1-21 to 3-13 with James Breen of Scullabogue lining out at corner back on both occasions and Shane O'Gorman of Kellystown in the subs. Michael Furlong of Grallagh was also in the corner back position for the Wexford footballers in their 0-16 to 0-14 win over Leitrim at Carrick On Shannon and against Waterford in Wexford Park last Sunday where Wexford were successful once more with a 1-9 to 0-0 victory. The Wexford hurlers played Waterford in Kilmore on Sunday in preparation for their next league outing that will be against Kerry in Wexford Park next Sunday. Trócaire boxes This year's Trócaire boxes are now available and can be picked up at the back of the church. Hopefully there will be a generous response in contributing to help those unfortunate people who are much less well off than ourselves. Gorta Self Help Africa are also holding a church gate collection in Newbawn this week-end. Gorta focus their attention and resources mainly on rural farm families in Africa as they believe that this where they can make the greatest inmpact. Recent deaths Two ladies with Newbawn connections passed away recently and we sympathise with their relatives and friends. Una Mullins (née Doyle) Garryrichard, Foulkemills, wife of Eric, died following a recent illness. Her burial took place in Clongeen cemetery following requiem mass in the nearby church. Eileen Kiely (née Kelly) Kilscanlon, Ballinaboola, wife of the late Pat, died last Thursday in a New Ross hospital. Requiem mass took place in Cushinstown church with burial afterwards in the nearby cemetery. The death also occurred on Tuesday of last week in St John's hospital Enniscorthy of James (Séamus) Wall, Boolabawn, Davidstown, who was a native of Newcastle Lane Newbawn. He was in his mid eighties and had been in failing health for some time. His burial which was attended by a large crowd, took place in Davidstown cemetery following requiem Mass in the nearby church. Sympathy is extended to all of his relatives and friends. May they rest in peace. Men's Shed The Men's Shed situated at the back of Fr Jim Furlong's house at Tomgarrow is now back in full swing again following the Christmas break. The group meets every Monday from 1 p.m. till 4 p.m. and new members are always welcome to join. Presently they are selling kindling, bird boxes, nesting boxes, dog sheds, garden seats and benches. For more information ring John at 087 7674008. ANCCR vacancies Two members of the Newbawn Community are required to go on the local ANCCR Area Development Community Employment Scheme committee. Four general operatives are also required for Newbawn, Raheen, Cushinstown and Clonroche. Rathgarogue-Cushinstown GAA Club is also looking for an underage coach for hurling, football and camogie under the community employment scheme. DSP criteria applies. Please contact 087 4144313 for further information. Pilgrimage to Lourdes Booking forms for the forthcoming pilgrimage to Lourdes may now be obtained at the back of the local church in Newbawn or direct from O'Leary's travel agency Wexford or Enniscorthy 053 9233178. This 49th Ferns Diocesan Pilgrimage to Lourdes led by Bishop Denis Brennan will take place from May 17 to May 22. The cost is from €699 per person. Forms for the disabled who wish to travel can be obtained from the parish priest of Newbawn Fr Jimmy Moynihan. Phone 051 428227 or 087 6976719. St Joseph's Athletic Club St Joseph's Athletic Club in conjunction with the National Council for the Blind will host a used clothes collection on this coming Saturday, March 4, Bags of clothes can be dropped into the club grounds this Tuesday and Wednesday evening between 7 and 8 p.m. Your support to this fundraiser would be greatly appreciated. For more information please contact Helen at 087 9838335. Arthritis Ireland The Kilkenny branch of Arthritis Ireland holds a coffee morning each Saturday in the Ossory Park Community Centre. Is arthritis or fibromyalgia making your life a misery with pain and suffering? If so please come along for a chat, make new friends, and know that you are not alone. The members look forward to meeting you and they will have the kettle on. To find out more about the Kilkenny branch, call or text this number: 087 1491767. Juvenile GAA Tullogher-Rosbercon GAA Club and the Tullogher camogie club will hold a joint juvenile registration day on Saturday, March 4, from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. All kids need to be registered in order to be insured for the coming season. Adult membership is also up for renewal. Playing adult members cost is €60 and non-players €25. Please contact Mary Fitzgerald at 086 0648062 or any committee member for details and help the club in 2017. The new club shop has gone live on the net. A range of new club gear is now available through O'Neill's Sports Wear. You can access the page through O'Neill's or through the Tullogher-Rosbercon website. Lourdes 2017 Bookings are now being taken for the Ossory Diocesan Pilgrimage to Lourdes 2017. It will take place from May 22 to May 29. Anyone interested in going on the pilgrimage should contact Eleanor at Glenmore parish office Monday to Friday 10.30 a.m. to 2.30 p.m. at 051 880213 or email glenmore@ossory.ie. There will be a church gate collection in Rosbercon this coming weekend, Saturday and Sunday, March 4 and 5, to support assisted pilgrims - please be as generous as you can. Newly baptised A warm welcome into our parish community is extended to Tadhg Foley, who was baptised in the Church of the Assumption, Rosbercon, on Saturday, February 18. He is son of Adrian and Linda (née Connick) from Tinnakilly, Rosbercon. Lotto This week's lotto jackpot stands at €20,000, and the reserve jackpot at €19,800. The numbers drawn were 20, 24, 31, and, and 32, and there was no winner. Consolation winners of €30 each were Helen Ryan, Mrs Mahon Goresbridge, Ciara, Niall, and Shane Hayden, Eithne Doherty, And John Dunne. Tickets are on sale in local business. Historical society The local historical society will have author Dr Michael J. Conry, who will speak on the subject of 'The History Of the Rabbit Industry In Ireland Including Carlow-Kilkenny' on Friday, March 3, at 8 p.m. in the Graiguenamanagh Library, Rambling House The Blacks and Whites GAA Club, Skeaughvosteen, will host a Rambling House on Friday, March 3, in Tom Walsh Park. Open session of music song and storytelling, So come and enjoy or join in. Tea will be served. Further information contact Nancy Moloney 086 8786711. Fleadh Cheoil The annual Fleadh Choil Cheatharlach will take place from April 7 to April 9, And this year the town of Borris, Co. Carlow, is hosting the festival. Come and take part in various event, including concerts competitions and session trails. for further details please contact fleadh2017@gmail.com. Split-the-pot This week's winners were first prize - Maureen Cullen €484, second prize - Josephine Byrne €75, third prize - Willie Bolger €50. Library news Encourage Your Child to read: Khan Kiely of Khan's Books will give a free talk on 'Encouraging Your Child to Read', Tuesday, February 28, at 7 p.m. A free raffle will be held on the night. Age Action computer classes: These classes are starting on February 28 in Graiguenamanagh Library on Tuesday mornings. There are a few places left if using your own tablet or laptop. If you are interested please contact the library at 056 7794178. Knitting for all: Free workshop with tutor Máire Hanley in Graig Library on Wednesday, March 1, at 10.30 a.m. World Book Day: To celebrate World Book Day there will be a free raffle for everyone who visits the library on Thursday, March 2. Free online classes from aromatherapy to bartending to creative writing - a whole range of courses is available online through the library website. We're holding an information session on Friday, March 10, at 11 a.m. to help get you up and running. 'Raheen Notice of AGM The annual general meeting of Raheen Community Development Group Ltd. will be held in Raheen Childcare Centre on Monday, April 3, at 8 p.m. We are now seeking nominations from the local community, for consideration at our company AGM to replace retiring directors. If you would like to be considered for election to the board nomination forms are available at reception. Raheen Community Development Group Ltd. is the Governing body of all the projects taking place at the centre under the Family Resource Centre Programme. The overall aim is to work in collaboration with the local community and relevant agencies to provide family support through develop community based responses for families and the community. For further information you can contact any of the current directors or phone 051 428805. We would like to take this opportunity to thank the retiring directors for their contribution to the project during their time with the board and we wish them well in the future. Yoga Classes Yoga classes at Raheen Hall are as follows: Tuesday mornings at 9.30 a.m. for all ages and level of mobility. Thursday evenings at 7.30 p.m. for all ages at an intermediate level. Please call Lyn for any questions you may have at 083 0035460. Raheen FRC Youth Club Volunteers are urgently needed. If you like working with young people and have a couple of hours to spare on Friday night, give us a call. Carmen/Treve 051 428805. Cards Winners in the hall in Gusserane last week were Kieran Keating and Johnny Colfer. Second went to Billy Power, Alice Gaffney and Margaret O'Neill. Third were Tom Culleton, Billy Shannon and Brendan Colfer while the last game draw went to Declan Egan, Noel Redmond and Marie Doyle. Raffle winners were Noel Redmond, Tom Corcoran, Brendan Colfer and Johnny Cogley. Lotto There was no jackpot winner in the Tintern lotto last week when the numbers drawn were 6, 12, 13 and 28. This week's jackpot stands at €16,400. Well done however to Mairead Redmond of Cloonagh, who was the sole match-three winner and won €200. Well done Mairead Well done to Mairead Redmond, who completed the daunting Operation Transformation programme last week in front of millions of viewers on RTÉ. Mairead not only hit her own personal targets after the eight-week programme but also inspired thousands of followers around the country to get more active and lead a healthier lifestyle. She was the inspiration behind the weekly walks in Gusserane GAA Club every Tuesday night where hundreds of locals enjoyed the social aspect of the walk as well as the physical benefits of it. St Patrick's Day parade Another Clonroche St Patrick's Day parade is being planned by Clonroche Development Association. This is a major showcase for organisations and businesses in the area to present their community in a positive perspective on the National Day. It is envisaged that the support and goodwill of previous years will be expressed in making this year's exhibition one of the biggest parades in the spectacle's nine-year history. We hope to have more floats in this year's parade and we understand that planning is at an advanced stage within some businesses, sporting and community groups It will also present an opportunity for local business in the village by attracting visitors and community onlookers and it is hoped, as in previous years, they will avail of the opportunity and contribute in making this day a spectacle to remember. Cloughbawn GAA Membership rates: The current categories of membership are: Family €120, Adult Player €100, Student €50, Child Player €30, Non-player €40, OAP €25, All Categories include use of club facilities including walking track and squash/handball courts. Family rate includes all children under 18 years of age. It also includes children under 23 years who are in full time education. Club lotto: numbers drawn in the Cloch Bán on February 18 were 6, 24, 25 and 32. No match-three winners, four lucky-dip winners - Jason Murphy, Paddy Cummins, Seánie Redmond, Tiernan/Ella/Carly/Callum. Next draw on Saturday, March 4, in the Boro Inn. Jackpot now at €8,000. St Joseph's NS, Donard Enrolments are now taking place for September. Parents wishing to enrol their child are advised to contact the school at 053 9244295, email donardns@live.ie or call into school to collect an enrolment pack. An Open Evening will take place on Wednesday, March 15, from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. Potential parents of students are invited to view our school on this evening. Clonroche playschool Clonroche Playschool is currently taking bookings for enrolments for September 2017. We are almost full to capacity so if you would like your child to avail of a space in the setting, please contact Tracy at 087 1265377. All children from three years are now eligible for two years free in an ECCE setting. Clonroche National School Clonroche NS are now accepting enrolments for the academic year 2017-2018. Enrolment forms can be obtained by calling to the school office or by contacting Margaret at 053 9244441. Tus Maith Pre-School Applications are invited for the position of Pre-School assistant to cover maternity leave. Applicants must have Level six in Early Childhood Care and Education and Paediatric First Aid. Please forward CV to donardns@live.ie or post to Tús Maith Pre-School. Closing date for applications is March 3. Community Games Well done to the four Bree-Davidstown Draughts teams which competed in the county final in Bree Hall last weekend. The under-14 team won silver medals. Both the under-12 team and the under-10 were third in their section. On the previous weekend the boys under-16 Chess team won the gold medals. Draughts and Chess Classes have now finished till the autumn. Well also done to the 12 swimmers from the local area which won 12 gold, six silver and three bronze medals in the Co Swimming finals on Wednesday last. All winners will swim in the national finals in Abbottstown in May. Individual winners were Ruairi Swan, Ava Whelan, Eva Bailey, Darragh Kirwan, Abi Cullen, Claire Whelan, Hannah Fitzpatrick, Holly Furlong and the under-13 'A' Squad. Silver medalists were Sarah O'Leary, Jenna Kirwan and under-13 'B' Squad. Bronze medal winners were Darragh Kavanagh, Emily Murphy and Leah Murphy. Well done to all involved and to their mentor Tracy Cullen. Best wishes to the two quiz teams in the county final on this Thursday night. Church Notices Anniversaries: Saturday, March 4, at 7 p.m. - Tom Higgins (first Anniversary) and John and Mollie Hennessy; Sunday, March 5, at 10 a.m. - Mattie Nolan. Mass This Week: Tuesday, Thursday and Friday Mass at 9.30 a.m. Ash Wednesday - Mass with blessings and distribution of Ashes at 9.30 a.m. Trócaire: Please collect your Trócaire box at the back of the church. Silver Circle draw Congratulations to the winners of the fourth draw. The lucky winners were as follows: First Prize €200 - Lisa Ryan, second prize €100 - Paddy O'Connell. The winners of €20 were as follows: Jim Cooney, Rianna Murphy, Barry O'Rourke, Sharon Holohan and Tommy Coakley. Promoter's Prize - Ann O'Connell. Thanks to all our promoters and supporters. Bingo Bingo is played every Tuesday night at 8.30 p.m. in Rathnure hall. Rathnure Bingo is active on Facebook, search 'Rathnure Bingo' and like our page. The Bingo jackpot on Tuesday the 28th is €1,600. Motiv8 Celebration Our Motiv8 fundraiser is drawing to a close and to celebrate we are holding a celebration night in the John Kelly Memorial Hall. There will be live music on the night with 'The Rogues' followed by DJ Paolo to bring us into the early hours. Barbecue food available and bring your own beer. Admission: €5 for members and €10 for non-members. The all-important announcement of the winning team and prizegiving will also take place. The Motiv8 programme has not only been a successful fundraiser for the club but also emanated community spirit, comradery, healthy-living and positive thinking. Come join us for this celebration. Adventure Race Register for the Blackstairs Adventure Race 2017 before February 28 to get the early bird price at blackstairsadventurerace.com Once you register before 28th, you can also enter the draw to win one night's B&B for two people at Treacy's Hotel by following the steps in our Facebook competition. Let's raise the #BAR, everyone. GAA Club lotto The numbers drawn last Tuesday the 21st were 1, 2, 3 and 9. There was no jackpot winner. Anna Codd, Gurrawn, Alan Coleman, Rathduff, Breda Ryan, Ballywilliam, Alan Mooney, Caim, Jimmy Fortune, The Ballagh, and Mary Power, Borris, were the six match-three winners who won €34. The jackpot this Tuesday night is €12,600. CE scheme vacancies Rathnure Killanne Blackstairs CE has two vacancies available for a Childcare Assistant in Kiltealy Community Playschool Six month contract to cover maternity leave. Starting W/C March 13; 52-week contract - Start date March 6. Applicants must have Fectac level five childcare. Applications must comply with Community Employment eligibility criteria, aged 25 or over and in receipt of 12 months payment or attending training. Garda vetting will also apply. Ring Supervisors office for application forms/details. Call 053 9256650 or 087 9961251. School enrolment Anyone parent who wishes to enrol their child/children for September 2017 in St Oliver's NS, Duncannon, should contact the school at 051 389206 or email stoliversns@eircom.net on or before Friday, March 3. St James GAA Clothes collection - Have you wardrobes full of unwanted clothes?, Have you curtains or bed clothes that need replacing and want to donate the old ones? Look no further as St James GAA Club will host another clothes collection on Monday, April 3, Anyone, who wants to donate before that date can contact Pauline Keating and she will organise collection 087 9414955. This is a simple fundraiser but is also very useful to help clear out unwanted items. Membership - St James GAA Club membership for the 2017-year is now due. Membership for the coming season is adult player (over 18) €100, child (under 18) €50, family membership €130, Student (over 18 and in full time education) €70. Membership forms are now available and can be got through committee members. Registration days are planned for the coming weeks. St Patrick's Day parade The organisers of the Duncannon St Patrick's Day parade are looking for this year's Grand Marshall. Nominations for this prestigious role can be made via the Duncannon Sandsculpting Facebook page. The chosen grand marshall will receive a €50 voucher for food in Duncannon. If you know someone who you feel would be a great grand marshall get your nominations in quickly as the parade deadline looms. Men's Shed group Would you be interested in being involved with a local Men's Shed? Our new men's group islooking at setting up a Shed in the Ramsgrange area. And in the meantime we will be busying ourselves with lots of new and exciting projects. If you are interested in being involved with our NEW Men's Shed Group here at SWWFRC, give us a call at 051 389418, and find out about our next scheduled meeting. Penny Bank Still feeling the pinch after Christmas? Let us take some of the pain away for next year. SWWFRC Penny Bank for Christmas 2017 will kick-off this week. Bank Transfer/EFT is also an option for weekly payments this year, contact Reception at 051 389418 for more information. Community employment Would you like to join our team at South West Wexford Family Resource Centre and gain valuable Work Experience and Training on our CE Scheme? While you are on the CE Scheme and you have worked your 19.5 hours, you are also entitled to take on another job outside of the project. We have vacancies in childcare where you can gain your National Certificate over a period of time at QQI Level five and six while working alongside other qualified staff. Our Community Café is also looking for a person to work in this friendly and social environment meeting staff and members of the community. Training is also available to you. We are also recruiting for a secretary/receptionist at the parish office to support the parish priest in administration. Please contact Tilly Carroll, CE Scheme Supervisor at 051 389418 for Application Form or pick one up at Reception. Please ensure you are registered with DSP. Education at SWWFRC Courses currently running at SWWFRC include: Mondays - Childhood Social, Legal and Health Studies, ECDL. Tuesdays Care Support, Special Needs Assisting. Wednesdays Human Growth and Development. Friday morning Skincare, Eye Treatments and Make-up New evening courses starting in March 2017 - E-Business Level 5: Book-keeping Manual and Computerised Thursday, March 9, 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. for 10 weeks. Cost €285. Training and Development (Train the Trainer), Special purpose award, Level 6: Cost €325 per module, €550 for both. Training Delivery and Evaluation Saturday mornings - Dates to be confirmed. Courses will run subject to minimum numbers confirmed. Recipients of social welfare may be entitled to funding towards courses. Easy payment plans can be availed of for all courses. Phone Jan/Sharon at 051 389418 for further details or to book a place on any of the above courses. Free BASIC INTERNET AND EMAIL COURSES at SWWFRC: Basic Internet and email eight Hours Free Tuition. Four x 2hr classes. Ongoing - Next class commencing shortly. Please call reception at 051 389418 to secure a place. TOURISM AND HERITAGE TRAINING PROGRAMME: Tuesday and Thursday Morning 9.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. To equip the participant with the knowledge and skills to understand the social and economic benefits of tourism and to have an awareness of their own role in meeting the needs and expectations of visitors. To facilitate participants to explore and appreciate Irish cultural and heritage resources and therefore develop their own philosophies, values and critical thinking in a range of cultural and heritage contexts. Course Content: Tourism Visitor Care Module and Appreciation of Irish Culture Module OFFICE SKILLS LEVEL 4: Tuesday and Thursday 9.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. This programme aims to equip the participant with the knowledge, skills and competencies to perform administrative functions within an office environment, to perform mathematical calculations in a business environment and interpret and present the results effectively, to work in a reception or front office area and to participant in a work place environment. Course content: General Office Skills, Business Calculations, Reception Skills and Work Experience St Louis Stitchers St Louis Stitchers Group meets every Wednesday 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at South West Wexford Family Resource Centre, Ramsgrange. New Members very welcome. For more information please contact SWWFRC reception at 051 389418. Women's Group Shelbourne Women's group meets every Monday at South West Wexford Family Resource Centre (SWWFRC). From now on the group will meet every Monday 10.30 p.m. to 12.30 p.m. till mid December. New Members very welcome. For more information please contact SWWFRC Reception at 051 389418. Blokes with Cameras Blokes with Cameras meet every Wednesday at 7 p.m. at South West Wexford Family Resource Centre (SWWFRC), Ramsgrange. All abilities are welcome. For more information please contact SWWFRC Reception at 051 389418. Beginners' Yoga Beginners' yoga has returned on Mondays at 7.30 p.m. and Thursday mornings at 10.30 a.m. Also Active Retirement gentle yoga, breathing exercises and meditation at 11.45 a.m. on Thursdays. Classes are €10 drop in or six class cards for €50. Contact Finola at 087 3641540 for more information. Active Retirement Next Monthly Meeting on Monday, March 6, in the St Louis Day Care Centre starting at 2.15 p.m. Come along for a chat with new and old friends over a cup of tea and a bun. New members always welcome. Social Evenings will be held in the St Louis Day Care Centre at 7.30 every second Tuesday, starting on Tuesday, February 21. Holiday to Cavan staying in the Slieve Russell Hotel, from Monday, May 8, to Friday, May 12. Cost - which covers four nights' B&B and evening meal, transport to and from Cavan, day trips and gratuities - €350 per person sharing. Single supplement €60. Booking deposit of €50 payable at the February meeting. Open to non-members from March 1. Enquiries to 051 389012 or 087 0544976. Trip to Omniplex Cinema, Wexford, to see the following films Wednesday, March 1 - Lion, Wednesday, March 15, Loving. Cost is €12. Lunch in Kelly's cafe before the meal. Bus leaving Ramsgrange car park at midday. Pick-ups from Ramsgrange to Wexford. To book please phone 051 389012 or 087 0544976. Have you two hours to spare on Tuesday mornings from 10 to midday? Ramsgrange Community School seeks volunteers for light gardening maintaining its community garden. Come and join our friendly and sociable group, if interested please contact Ann at 083 0054438. Breathing, exercise and Relaxation Classes for seniors in South West Wexford FRC, Ramsgrange on Thursdays from 11.45 to 12.45 p.m. Please drop in and join us pay by the week. Contact 086 8780357. Local Link Wexford Local Link Wexford is now taking bookings for seats on the daily bus service to Waterford. To book your seat please contact the office at 053 9196276 or email wexford@locallink.ie. Slimming World Slimming World Classes have commenced in South West Wexford FRC on Saturday mornings. Weigh in time is 9.30. Please contact Yvonne Byrne at 086 3147332 for more details. Campile study group There are a few vacancies available in the Campile Study group being held in Campile Hall. The Study Group meets on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday nights from 5.30 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. under the supervision of parents. The cost is €20 per student per month for enquires please phone 087 3928835. GAA Club Notes Clothes collection - Have you wardrobes full of unwanted clothes? Have you curtains or bed clothes that need replacing and want to donate the old ones? Look no further as St James GAA Club will host another clothes collection on Monday, April 3, Anyone, who wants to donate before that date can contact Pauline Keating and she will organise collection 087 9414955. This is a simple fundraiser but is also very useful to help clear out unwanted items. Membership - St James GAA Club membership for the 2017 year is now due. Membership for the coming season is adult player (over 18) €100, child (under 18) €50, family membership €130, Student (over 18 and in full time education) €70. Membership forms are now available and can be got through committee members. Registration days are planned for the coming weeks. St James NS St James National School, Ramsgrange, is now taking enrolments for the school year 2017-2018. You can get an enrolment pack by calling in to the school, or by calling Karen in the office at 051 389363. Sheilbaggan NS Anyone wishing to enrol their child at Scoil Naomh Una, Sheilbaggan in Junior Infants for September 2017 should contact the school before March 1 between 9.30 a.m. and 3 p.m. Telephone 051 562410 or email sheilbagganns.ias@gmail.com. Ballyhack NS Ballyhack National School are now taking enrolments for September 2017. If you would like your child to start school in Ballyhack in September then please contact the school by phone 051 389368, by email ballyhackns@eircom.net or call into the office for an Enrolment Pack. Closing date for returning your application forms to the school is Thursday, March 16. Duncannon NS Anyone parent who wishes to enrol their child/children for September 2017 in St Oliver's NS, Duncannon should contact the school at 051 389206 or email stoliversns@eircom.net on or before Friday, March 3. Cake and book sale South West Wexford Heartsave is holding a cake and Book Sale, Coffee Morning and raffle in St Louis Day Care Centre, Ramsgrange, on Sunday, March 5, from 9 a.m. to midday. All proceeds will go directly towards maintenance of the AEDs currently in place e.g batteries, pads, etc. Donations of cakes and books can be made on the morning of the sale and will be greatly appreciated. Hope to see you there. ICA news Eleven members of Duncannon ICA were welcomed to the first meeting of 2017, held in the St Louis Day Care Centre on Feb.14th. Our president Gretta opened the meeting with a prayer and wished everybody a Happy New Year. All agreed that our Christmas dinner night out was most enjoyable with delicious food and great chat. The Age and Opportunity grant has been received and a number of possibilities were discussed such as yoga, Golf and Bowling. Gretta and Deirdre attended the launch of Co. Wexford's Age Friendly Strategy as part of Wexford Federation and brought along Gretta's brown bread and Deirdre's jams and chutneys to display at the ICA stand. Gretta was complimented on the interview with Alan Corcoran broadcast on South East Radio. Our diaries are filling up again with activities organised by Wexford Federation. On Thursday, March 2, a cookery demonstration will be given by Mary Kelly at her premises in Camross. The ICA Has Got Talent takes place in the Horse and Hound March 31 and practices will soon commence for our group singing entry. The Federation meeting will be held in the Ferrycarrig hotel on Monday, February 27. At this meeting six half scholarships to the Gaeltacht will be raffled. The winners of the table quiz in Bree on February 23. will proceed to the grand final at An Grianan. It was proposed that we investigate courses available at An Grianán and organise a visit there for guild members. In the meantime we have the Special Occasion competition to consider but more about that next month. A most enjoyable tea with homemade biscuits was served by Gretta. The competition for a handmade Valentine's card was won by Gretta first, Teresa second, Kitty third. Our next meeting will be held on March 15 Lotto results Taghmon- Camross, Bannow- Ballymitty and St James Ramsgrange lotto draw for February 21. The winning numbers were 1, 10, 16 and 28. No jackpot winner. Next jackpot €83,006. Match-three winners Becky Doyle, Ballyhennigan; Helena Hore, Kilgarvan; Tom Mulacky, Duncannon; Tom McGee, Ardinagh; Tom Nolan, Bricketstown; and Walter and Mary Roche. Next Draw takes place in Bannow-Ballymitty GAA Clubhouse on March 7 at 8.30 p.m. Taghmon Community Games Well done to our under-12 girls' soccer team who were runners-up and silver medalists in the county final last weekend. Well done Rebecca, Cora, Molly, Lily, Ruth, Rachel, Elena, Gemma and Caoimhe. A big thanks to Niamh and Joe, our managers on the day. Congratulations to our four swimmers who competed in the swimming county finals last Wednesday. Roisin Reville just missed out on a place in the final. Caoimhe Reville was second, Anna Kelly was second and Shania Quigley was third in their finals. Well done, girls. Good luck to our four teams in the quiz final on Thursday. The results of the local art and handwriting competitions will be announced later and the medals will be sent to the schools. Taghmon ICA The February meeting took place on Wednesday, February 15. After the ICA prayer the meeting started with the minutes of the last meeting and the correspondence. Dates for your diary are as follows: Federation meeting Monday, February 27. Cookery demonstration at Mary Kelly's Thursday the second. Craft School in Coláiste Bríde, Enniscorthy. Federation Bowling competition May 25 and Special occasion competition on June 8. Daffodil Day takes place on March 24. Please support as you always do. After a lot of discussion it was decided to use the Go for Life Grant to get some bowling practice in for the bowling competition. We also hope to get a walking group going in the better weather. After some chair exercises with Carol Gray the meeting concluded with tea and the raffle. The raffle was won by Mella Winters and Billie O'Donnell. The next meeting takes place in Campile Hall as part of a group meeting on March 15 Social cycle Caroreigh Community Alert are organising a social cycle on Sunday, March 19. Registration at 1.30 p.m. Cycle starts at Camross Hall at 2 p.m. Registration Fee €10. All cyclists must be over 18 and wear a helmet. Distance 11.5km or 23km. Tea and refreshments in Camross Hall. Camogie Club quiz Taghmon-Camross camogie club will hold their annual table quiz in Rochford's Pub, Camross, on Friday, March 3, at 9 p.m. Entry is €20 for a table of four. There will also be a raffle on the night with some great prizes up for grabs. Your continued support of the club is greatly appreciated and we look forward to seeing you all there. Camross ICA Congratulations to the Camross team who won the table quiz which was held in Byrne's Pub in Bree on February 23. Well done, ladies. Our next meeting will be on March 6 at 8 p.m. in Camross hall and the monthly competition will be the 'nicest sugar bowl'. If you want to expand your social life, learn new skills, take part in fun activities or just do something different in 2017, joining our fun and friendly group could be just what you are looking for. We hope to welcome you soon. Dancing at Camross The March dance will be held on this Friday, February 3, in Camross Ballroom with music by T Bone Country. Dancing will be from 10 p.m. to midnight. Admission including the tea €8. See you there. Vehicle Run Caroreigh Church Committee will hold a vehicle run on Sunday, March 12, starting from Camross Hall at 1 p.m. Registration from midday. Cost €20. There will be a half-way stop at Galbally and then back to Camross for refreshments. All vehicles must have up-to-date insurance. St Joseph's NS Slim Down/Shape Up. Next weigh-in is on Thursday, March 2, at 7.30 p.m. and the activity on the night is on Acupuncture talk and demo. Final weigh-in is on Tuesday, March 14, at 7.30 p.m. in the school. A reminder: Tickets now available in the school for school social event and Finale of the fitness programme on Thursday, March 16, in the Oak Tree Tavern, Foulksmills. A night of fashion, music, food, ceol and craic. Tickets €5. Enrolment forms now available for Junior Infants for St Joseph's NS in school office or phone 051 561324. We had a lovely farewell mass and celebration for Fr Browne. He planted a cherry blossom tree and we will always have it to remind us of his time with us in Ballymitty. Our 'Cycle on Wednesdays' (COW) and 'Walk on Wednesdays' (WOW) to school begins on Wednesday, March 10, We ask all pupils, parents and staff to make a special effort to walk or cycle to school. Tidy Towns Tidy Towns Wellingtonbridge are holding a fundraising table quiz in Tír na nÓg at 8.30 on Friday, March 3, The AGM is on Wednesday, March 8, in Tír na nÓg. All welcome to come and join us keeping fit while you work, social gathering and doing something for your carbon footprint. Pirates of Penzance The Little Sea Musical Society will stage the Pirates of Penzance musical in Carrig-on-Bannow Community Centre from March 22-24. More details to follow soon. Grantstown Day Care Upcoming Events in Grantstown Day care Centre: Tuesday, February 28 - Shrove Tuesday/pancake flipping competition in the morning. Pongo in the afternoon. Wednesday, March 1 - Pongo in the morning: New Ross Community Hospital will visit the centre and music by Jimmy Barnwell in the afternoon. Thursday, March 2 - Pongo in the morning and Chair Yoga in the afternoon. Volunteers - Have you any time to spare? Grantstown is looking for volunteers in the Day Care Centre. If you can give even an hour of your time per week, we would love to hear from you. We are urgently looking for volunteers who will help drive our residents to doctor's appointments or hospital appointments. Please contact the reception at 051 561016 if you are prepared to help our senior citizens. CE Scheme Vacancies - Grantstown Day Care has vacancies for CE Schemes. If you are interested and fulfil the criteria please contact the reception at 051 561016. St Patrick's Day Parade Preparations are under way for this year's parade in Carrig-on-Bannow which will take place on March 17 at 2 p.m. in the village. All groups are invited to take part, whether walking or on floats. For further information or to sign up, please contact Greg (086 8174231), or Catherine (087 2917849). GAA club news Lotto numbers from Tuesday night's draw were 1, 10, 16 and 28. Next jackpot will be €8,300. Well done to Eoin Roche, Ryan Moran, Cathal Cummins, Dean O'Neil, Michael Gaynor, Ciara Cummins, April Moran, Becky O'Neil, Danielle Kinsella, Emily Moran and Niamh Millar, who were all participants in St Joseph's handball tournaments recently. Ciara Cummins got herself on the under-13 development squad of the Wexford County Footballers well done Ciara all the hard work paid off. Registration nights continue in the complex for membership check our Facebook for times. Deadline is March 31. The ladies' football club will be in Wallace's on Saturday, March 18, collecting much needed funds. If you have a spare hour to help out please contact Sarah Meyler. Church Gate Collection Gorta Self Help Africa has been granted a permit for Church Gate Collection in Carrig-on-Bannow Parish for March 4 and five next. Dancing Dancing continues every Thursday night in Tír na nÓg with Eugene French playing on Thursday, March 2, Delta Dawn on Thursday the ninth, Fingers and Strings on Thursday the 16th, Jimmy Barnwell on Thursday the 23rd, and to celebrate our third anniversary we have the Wicklow Man on Thursday, March 30. All are welcome to come along and have a great night of dancing. Sad Passing Deepest sympathy to the Codd family, Sheastown, Wellingtonbridge, on the death of their mother Fanny Codd (née Harpur last week. Fanny is survived by her children Edward, Jimmy, Phil, Caroline, Olive and Anthony, brother Tom, sisters Sarah and Mary, grandchildren, relatives and friends. Removal was from Ryan's funeral parlour on Friday at 7 p.m. to Carrig church and she was buried in Rathangan cemetery after 11 a.m. funeral Mass. May she rest in peace. Table quiz There is a table quiz in Stafford's Pub, Tullycanna on Tuesday, February 28, at 9 p.m. Proceeds in aid of Ballymitty New Hall Building Fund. Table of four €20. Sewing Classes New weekly sewing classes in Ballymitty hall beginning this Thursday night, March 2, from 7.30 p.m. to 9.30 p.m. The Sewing Guru that is Ellie Carthy will be at hand to teach. Do you have a sewing machine that you would love to learn how to use? Learn the basics and try your hand at making your own creations. Children and beginners welcome. To book contact Mary Quirke 086 8432125. Classes in jnitting, crochet and Cross Stitch also on the night, try your hand at all four if you wish. Confidence in Signing Confidence in Signing Course - This is starting Tuesday, March 7, in Ballymitty Hall with a final class plus concert on Sunday, April 9. This course will help you prepare to sing for friends and family over six classes so that you have more fun singing and experience fewer nerves. Classes: Tuesday from 7.30 p.m. to 9.30 p.m. March 7, 14, 21, 28 and April 4 plus last class Sunday, April 9, at 6 p.m. Queries and to book contact Aideen Ní Riada at 089 9829914. Corach Ramblers Congratulations to this week's split-the-pot winner Wendy Staunton - Wendy picks up a cool €760. The draw took place in Stafford's of Tullycanna. Thanks a million to everyone for your continued support. #COYR The A-team were at home to a good Tombrack side today in the league and had a good 2-0 win. We started brightly and after six minutes we took the lead when following a good move involving Richie, Philly and mark the ball was played wide to Adam, whose excellent cross found hermi at the back post and on his first start in 12 weeks he calmly slotted home. On 15 minutes we won a series of corners which ended with tadhg being denied his first goal by the crossbar. Tombrack were playing some good football too and got through on a couple of occasions but were denied both times by good saves from Darren. On the half hour some excellent pressure from Philly resulted in the centre half having to play back to his keeper but Hermi got there first and was taken down for a penalty which he then dispatched to the back of the net for a two goal lead. The second half saw Tombrack trying hard to get back into the game but we were defending well and on the odd occasion they did get shots away Darren was on hand to deal comfortably with them, while we were threatening on the counter but could not get the third. All in all a perfect response to our defeat last week and another important three points. New Ross Standard 
