sport football
{  
    July 23 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/irelands-first-50-metre-swimming-pool-for-limerick-27466393.html }
At a ceremony on the UL campus last Wednesday, Dr. James McDaid, TD, Minister for Tourism, Sport and Recreation announced the Governments... Speaking on the occasion of the announcement, UL President, Professor Roger GH Downer said “The announcement that Ireland’s first 50m pool is to be built at the University of Limerick is welcome news for the University, the city and the region. Building on Limerick’s long sporting tradition, the pool will be part of the state-of-the-art sports centre which is currently under construction at the UL campus and which will provide one of the finest facilities of its kind in Europe. The importance of sports as a vehicle for positive social, cultural, economic and political change is often underestimated. Therefore, I am delighted that the present Government, through Minister McDaid as Minister for Tourism, Sport and Recreation has recognised its potential. This new facility, together with the expertise of National Coaching and Training facilities. In addition, it will enable UL to further expand its teaching and research programmes in Sports Science. We, at UL, look forward to participating fully with all groups to ensure optimal benefits will accrue.” Professor Noel Whelan, Vice President UL, appreciated the far-reaching reforms which the Minister has initiated in the field of sport since coming into office, including the establishment of a statutory basis of the Irish Sports Council under the Chairmanship of Mr. Pat O’Neill and the leadership of Mr. John Treacy, Chief Executive. John O’Connor, Director, Finance and Physical Development stated that the UL project had been the subject of a comprehensive and in-depth assessment of the national competition process for the awarding of the 50m swimming pool project. He said “we had the benefit of leading specialist consultants from the North America to collaborate with our Irish design team and the resultant proposal involves an innovative design concept which will minimise the capital costs and provide for a cost efficient operating system. Credit must be given to officials of the Department of Tourism, Sport and Recreation for their professional and rigorous analysis of the many excellent proposals received and the creative manner in which this important national initiative has ben progressed.” The construction of the 50m swimming pool is due to commence in August 1999, with a targeted completion date of September 2000. The University of Limerick has played an unique role in sport in Ireland, through a combination of initiatives including its Physical Education and Sports Science programmes, the National Coaching and Training Centre, the campus sports programmes and its provision of sporting facilities for the wider community. Since its establishment on the UL campus the National Coaching and Training Centre, under the current chairman, Mr. Ger Canning and the Director, Mr. Pat Duffy has fulfilled its national remit to support and develop the coaching and training functions of all national sports bodies, providing expert coaching programmes, high performance testing, training, residential and other facilities for elite athletes. Over the last 25 years the Physical Education and Sports Science undergraduate, postgraduate and continuing education programmes at the University have provided professional development for in excess of 600 teachers who have gone on to make a major contribution to sport in the Irish school system at all levels. In addition, Ul research projects in this field have benefitted the advancement of sports and sports science. In keeping with its public service ethos, the University has made its sporting facilities available to a diverse range of sporting bodies and the general public, in particular to sports clubs and societies and to companies located on the National Technological Park and in order to combat social exclusion, through special programmes for disadvantaged communities and people with disabilities.  UL’S SPORTS FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT PLAN The University devised an integrated Sports Facilities Development Plan in 1994. This plan was designed to complete the requirements for UL to become a centre of excellence for sport at an international standard and identified a number of key elements including: - An international standard athletics track - Quality outdoor pitches for Gaelic football, hurling, rugby and soccer - A synthetic hockey pitch with floodlighting - Quality tennis courts - Specialist resident accommodation - Sports laboratories - An information centre - A multi-sports indoor centre - A 50m swimming pool With the exception of the 50m swimming pool, all the elements of the development plan are already implemented or in the process of implementation. With the announcement to locate the 50m national swimming pool on the University campus, Ireland has now a state-of-the-art sporting infrastructure for supporting sports performance which competes favourably with the best facilities internationally.  FUNDING STRATEGY FOR 50M POOL In accordance with the funding strategies adopted for other campus developments, the University of Limerick has forged a public/private partnership involving State financing and support from private donors. The Exchequer funding announced today will be combined with IR£2.8 million (Euro 3.55 million) which has been secured by the University of Limerick Foundation from private sources to fund the 50m pool development. This complements the IR£11 (Euro 13.96 million) Multi-Purpose Sports Building which is currently under construction of an adjacent site and is being funded through a partnership involving private sector donations, commercial financing and annual contributions from each member of the UL student body over a 20 year period. 
