sport football
{  
    March 27 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/sport/other-sports/tipperary-gaa-scene-27438490.html }
MINOR HURLERS	The County Minor hurlers and footballers take the field in the next week.  On Saturday next at 1:45pm in the Gaelic Grounds Limerick, Tipperarys minor hurlers play Clare.  MINOR FOOTBALLERS	Tipperarys minor footballers take on Limerick in the first round of the Munster championship Wednesday March 31st at 6:45pm in Fermoy. Brian Mulvihill of Moyle by County PRO Ed Donnelly MINOR HURLERS The County Minor hurlers and footballers take the field in the next week. On Saturday next at 1:45pm in the Gaelic Grounds Limerick, Tipperary’s minor hurlers play Clare. MINOR FOOTBALLERS Tipperary’s minor footballers take on Limerick in the first round of the Munster championship Wednesday March 31st at 6:45pm in Fermoy. Brian Mulvihill of Moyle Rovers will captain the side and is one of 5 players from last year’s team who is in contention for a place against Limerick. The other players from last year include goalkeeper Martin McKeogh (Ballina) and dual players Shane O’Brien (Ballina), Darragh Egan (Kildangan) and Stephen Murphy (Kilruane McDonaghs). The Minor Football selectors for this season are Peter Creedon (Cahir – Manager), Sean Scully (JK Brackens), Pat Cremin (Burgess), Tommy Sheehan (Fethard) and Sean McManus (Emly). In recent years at minor level, there has been very little separating Tipperary and Limerick. The results in recent years include: - 2003 – Tipperary 2-6 Limerick 2-5; 2002 – Tipperary 0-10 Limerick 0-7 and in the semi-final Tipperary 1-9 Limerick 2-4; 2001 – Limerick 0-9 Tipperary 1-5. Best of luck to both minor teams. DIVISION 3 SENIOR FOOTBALL LEAGUE FINAL Congratulations to St. Patricks on winning the Division 3 Senior Football League title. They defeated Loughmore-Castleiney on a scoreline of 0-10 to 1-6 in Kickham Park on St. Patricks Day, thus reversing a result from round 3 of the competition when Loughmore won by 9 points. Afterwards, Football Board PRO Hugh Kennedy presented the trophy to the St. Patricks captain Kenny Brett. The winning team lined out as follows: - Ian Hickey; Patrick Brett, Mark McCormack, Liam Brett; Noel Lyons, Sean Horan, Adrian Britton; Brian McCormack, Noel Brett; T.J. Noonan, Declan Ryan, Wm. McCormack; Philip Britton, John Brett, Kenny Brett (Captain). Subs: - John Sugrue for Philip Britton, Michael Britton, John Griffin & Brian Hickey. JUNIOR FOOTBALL CHALLENGE The Tipperary Junior Football team played Cahir in a challenge game on Sunday last in Kickham Park, Thurles. Played in very difficult conditions Cahir played with the wind in the first half and emerged victorious by 2-7 to 0-5 following a shortened second half as conditions deteriorated. The Tipperary team lined out as follows: - Keith Madigan (Clonmel Og); Tommy Morrissey (Commercials), Aaron Devane (Ballina), Gary Byrne (Holycross/Ballycahill); Ronan Dwyer (Ballylooby/Castlegrace), Daniel Kelly (Cappawhite), Philip O'Doherty (Solohead); Michael Fitzpatrick (Moyle Rovers), James Hayes (Boherlahan/Dualla); Colm Riordan (Solohead), John Dunne (J.K. Brackens) (0-2), Domhnaill McKeogh (Ballina); Eoin Fallon (Clonmel Og), Aaron Ryan (Inane Rovers), Jamie Coffey (Ballylooby/Castlegrace) (0-1). Subs (All used): James Farrelly (J.K. Brackens), Chris O'Mara (Ballina), Cormac Sheridan (Newport), P.J. Burke (St. Patricks) (0-1), Philip Ryan (Arravale Rovers), Eoin Doyle Fethard), Adrian Britton (St. Patricks), Vincent Moloney (Newport), Johnny Noonan (Fethard), David Fox (Ballylooby/Castlegrace) (0-1), David Lowry (Boherlahan/Dualla). Referee: Pat Lynch (Loughmore-Castleiney). DECLAN BROWNE Tipperary and Moyle Rovers footballer Declan Browne is currently lying second in the National Football League scoring charts. Declan held an 8-point lead before last weekend’s series of matches with 1-41 (44 points) to his credit in 5 matches. However, while Declan was forced to miss out on Tipperary’s excellent win over Antrim, Wexford’s Mattie Forde struck for an amazing tally of 4-5 against Galway in Tuam and has now totalled 7-32 (53 points). Tipperary last game in the National Football League will be against Derry in Semple Stadium on Sunday week, April 4th. COUNTY MINOR HURLING “C” CHAMPIONSHIP The draw has taken place for the County Minor Hurling “C” championship, which will be played on an all county basis this year. Nine teams have entered and are divided in to two groups. The teams in Group 1 are Solohead, Newcastle, Eire Óg Annacarty, Fr. Sheehys and Skeheenarinky. Group 2 is made up of Clonakenny, Ballybacon-Grange, Marlfield and Ballinahinch. The top two teams in each group will qualify for the county semi-finals. The competition will begin on the weekend of June 20th. COUNTY MINOR FOOTBALL “C” CHAMPIONSHIP The Minor Football “C” championship will also be played on an all county basis this year. Eleven teams have entered for this competition and the teams have been split in to two groups. Group 1 contains Knockavilla Kickhams, Ballinahinch, Solohead, Newcastle, St. Martins and Rosegreen. Group 2 is made up of Arravale Rovers, Clonakenny, Portroe, Fr. Sheehys and Ballylooby-Castlegrace. The top two teams in each group will qualify for the county semi-finals. The competition will begin on the weekend of April 3rd. BORRISOKANE CC LOSE FINAL Borrisokane CC lost the Munster VS SH “A” Final last week to St. Brogan’s of Bandon. The Tipperary side led at half time by 4 points but they had to give best to the Cork side that finished the stronger side to win by 3-12 to 3-7. Borrisokane’s side included county minors Darragh Egan (Kildangan), Colm Larkin (Borrisokane) and Ray Moloughney (Kilruane McDonaghs) as well as last years county minor Conor Hayes (Kildangan). SCÓR SINSEAR MUNSTER FINAL The Munster semi-final of Scór Sinsear took place on March 13th. Competitors from Clare, Limerick and Tipperary displayed their talents in an attempt to qualify for the Munster final on this Saturday night, March 27th at 6:30pm in Our Lady’s School in Templemore. The Tipperary champions in eight competitions took part and I am pleased to say that all of the qualified for the Munster Final. The following will represent Tipperary in the final on Saturday night: - Set Dancing (Borrisoleigh), Novelty Act (JK Brackens), Question Time (Roscrea), Ballad Group (Portroe), Recitation (Philomena Quigley – Shannon Rovers), Instrumental Music (Borrisoleigh), Solo Song (Theresa Galvin – Newport) and Figure Dancing (Newcastle). Best of luck to all involved. SCÓR NA bPÁISTÍ COUNTY FINAL The County final of Scór na bPáistí will take place on April 2nd in Cashel. CLAIRE GROGAN WINS SPORTS AWARD 2004 marks the 20th anniversary of the annual Irish Examiner National Junior Sports Star awards. Athletes from 20 sporting disciplines between the ages of 15 and 19 received the awards in recognition of their extraordinary achievements in 2003 in their chosen sports. The awards were presented by guest of honour Padraig Harrington at a reception in the Berkeley Court Hotel, Dublin. Claire Grogan from the Cashel club collected her second sports star award for Camogie for her achievements in 2003. Well done to Claire on winning this award. Some of the other winners included: - Hurling – James Fitzpatrick (Kilkenny); Gaelic Football – Chris Bergin (Laois); Handball – Maria Daly (Kerry); Ladies Football – Kasey O’Driscoll (Kerry). UNDER 10 INDOOR HURLING BLITZ An indoor hurling blitz for under 10’s in Mid Tipperary started last Saturday. The blitz took place in Ursuline Sports Complex in Thurles and concludes this Saturday, running from 10:00am to 5:00pm. All Mid clubs are taking part in this excellent initiative. MONEYGALL GAA CLUB WEB SITE The Moneygall GAA club have designed a new web site. The new site contains all the information you need to know about the club including fixtures, results, latest news, history, honours, famous people, club officers, photo gallery, club lotto and a guest book. The address for the site is www.moneygallgaa.com REFEREES Last week, I asked the following question. Can a player ordered off the field for a Category “D” offence (Second Cautionable Foul, i.e. yellow card followed by a red card) play in another game later on the same day? The answer is Yes. A player ordered off the field for a Category “D” offence shall be suspended for the duration of that game, which shall included extra time where played. A player ordered off for a Category “D” offence for a subsequent time within 48 weeks shall stand suspended for 2 weeks. On to this weeks question. A player is in possession of the ball and has already taken three steps. He is being fouled (jersey pulled and being pushed) but the Referee decides to allow an advantage. The player proceeds to take two more steps and scores. Has the player committed an offence? TIPPERARY GAA SCENE Information concerning all areas in the GAA will appear in this section in the future. If you wish to include any item of interest in future articles, please contact the County Public Relations Officer Ed Donnelly at 087-2055642 or via e-mail at tipperarypro@gaa.ie 
