sport football
{  
    January 18 2020 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/sport/gaa/big-night-of-celebration-38861750.html }
This Saturday night in the Arklow Bay Hotel the stars of Wicklow GAA's 2019 season will be honoured at the annual Garden County GAA awards in an event that promises to be an entertaining and enjoyable reflection of a thrilling year across Gaelic football, hurling, handball, camogie and ladies football.  MC Jimmy Dunne will shepherd his willing and obedient flock through the evening with the usual aplomb and class while all kinds of glamorous gown and stylish suits will make their way to the stage to the sounds of much cheering and applause. A hearty and delicious meal will be consumed, great conversation engaged in, memories and yarns recounted and friendships rekindled. Tommy Kelly St Patrick's A stunning season for St Patrick's sharpshooter Tommy Kelly earned him the club player of the year award for 2019. The talented full-forward blasted his way through the Senior championship until he came face to face with Ciaran Hyland but even with the superb defending of the experienced AGB star Kelly was still able to cause damage as Casey O'Brien's men secured a magical two in a row of Senior crowns. In the Leinster campaign Kelly wasn't found wanting; firing over a few screamers when required against Ferbane and showing that he is indeed one of the best attackers in the county at this moment in time. Here's hoping for a wonderful 2020 season for the St Patrick's star. Christy Moorehouse Bray Emmets Bray Emmets' return to the summit of Wicklow club hurling was brought about to some extent by the excellence of Christy Moorehouse who exploded into life in the early stages of the final against Glenealy and inspired his colleagues to storm to a wonderful victory. Christy, like Bray Emmets in many ways, had not realised his potential over the last season or two but all that changed in 2019 when the sharpshooter took the championship by storm and helped drive his colleagues back to championship glory. Mark Kenny Ballymanus A disappointing season for the Wicklow Senior footballers shouldn't take from some fine individual performances over the season, and Ballymanus man Mark Kenny was one of the players who maintained a high standard of showing throughout a difficult league and championship. Always producing quality performances for club and county, Kenny's energy and his abundance of natural talent and pace helped set him apart in the last season for Kerry's John Evans. Hopefully there's a big season ahead of the Ballymanus man under new manager Davy Burke. John Henderson Bray Emmets The class of Bray's John Henderson shone through when he donned the county jersey in 2019 as he drove his county to league promotion and a competitive but ultimately disappointing Christy Ring campaign. With John Henderson you are always guaranteed a number of things when he pulls on the county colours. The first is absolute commitment. He is never found wanting when it comes to putting everything behind the wheel. The second is unfailing courage in the heat of battle and in the face of any foe and that is such a vital ingredient on the hurling field. The third is his wonderful brand of hurling, that which screams to the opposing team that you may charge down upon us without mercy but you shall be repelled at all costs. Cian O'Sullivan Dunlavin Dunlavin's story in 2019 was a marvelous one as the men from the Kildare border rejoiced as captain Sean Phelan lifted the cup after a resounding win over Kilmac in Aughrim. Key to that campaign was the performance of the lively spark of footballing brilliance, Cian O'Sullivan. Always popping up for significant scores, always a threat, always a force to be reckoned with, O'Sullivan is a very worthy winner of this award. Nick Skelton Carnew Emmets You want dedication, devotion, honesty, integrity, absolute effort and unending loyalty then you need look no further than Carnew's Nick Skelton who was announced as the IHC player of the year award winner. The intelligent Skelton has toiled for many a day in the Carnew jersey, good ones and bad ones and his role in their Intermediate hurling success of 2019 was both vital and expected given the standards he sets for himself and his colleagues. Stephen O'Connor An Tochar All dangermen from all clubs in the Intermediate grade had better learn the name of Stephen O'Connor from An Tochar. This athletic, tussle-haired adonis is on the way to ruin your lives and you had better prepare yourself for one of the tightest marking defenders in the county since the likes of Ciaran Hyland. A class act of many in a wonderful year for the Roundwood men. Robert Lambert Aughrim Aughrim's resurgence in the small ball game on the field came down to the vision of dedicated mentors and the hurling ability of a band of committed brothers with Robert Lambert epitomising everything that was positive and wholesome about the Granite City's amazing return season. Gavin Barton Enniskerry Enniskerry's superb achievement in winning the Junior 'B' football championship was rewarded with the announcement that the unendingly impressive and constantly competent Gavin Barton was the winner of the Junior B Football award for 2019. John Connors St Patrick's After shocking red hot favourites Éire Óg in the semi-final and getting the better of Kilcoole in the decider, the men of St Patrick's Junior 'C' team returned home to Dunbur with the championship crown in hand with the performance of club legend John Connors being key to that sweet victory. Matthew Ging Kilavaney Utter dominance might be an accurate way to describe the performances of Kilavaney star Matthew Ging throughout the under-20 football championship that culminated with the amalgamated team defeating Éire Óg in the final. The Tinahely man will hopefully light up the Senior championship for many years to come as well as donning the Wicklow jersey in a future that looks bright for the Garden County. Eoin Doyle Rathnew Rathnew's Eoin Doyle was in inspirational form in the Wicklow Minor football championship of 2019. What a star Wicklow has in the making in the form of this young man who lit up the Minor championship for Rathnew and dazzled in parts for the county side under manager Kevin O'Brien. Doyle is a very talented attacker who has shown that he can cope with sweepers and incredibly tight-marking defenders and his exploits on the field of play will hopefully entertain Wicklow GAA supporters for many years to come. Eoin Byrne Michael Dwyers It was clear to be seen that there was a hunger in the Michael Dwyers camp to reclaim the Minor hurling crown and in Eoin Byrne that desire and passion was probably best exemplified. A hurler of significant ability and skill, it is when combined with the passion and energy displayed in the county final that this young man rises above the rest and proves almost unbeatable. His movement in the county final, his score-taking and his ferocity all over the field are what earned him the man of the match award on the day, but it was his consistency and his dedication throughout the championship that has earned him this award. Bobby Dignam Rathnew If you think of Rathnew GAA Club and you can't help but think of the name Bobby Dignam. Whether it's the broad smile and outstretched hand up at Merrymeetings, throwing support behind various ideas or pointing out flaws in others at county board meetings, or supporting club and county at venues all across Wicklow and beyond, the Rathnew official has been a constant driving force for the Village side for decades. Kilbride's Tommy Clarke will receive a lifetime acheivement award at Saturday night's awards in the Arklow Bay Hotel. Present and to the fore at the club's forming in 1954, the talented and teak-tough Clarke manned the full-back position for his beloved side and was a key cog in the Kilbride wheel as they surged to Senior glory in 1962 and 1968. Tommy wore the county colours and was on the team of the millennium. Tommy also managed numerous club sides in both Wicklow and Kildare and was a massive asset for his club over the years and a worthy lifetime achievement award winner. John Magee Blessington Every club needs people like John Magee; people who have given their lives to the club both on and off the field through thick and thin, in good times and bad. John served his club superbly as a player over the years and has never been found wanting in any other aspect of club life in the years that followed. A familiar face in the ocunty grounds in Aughrim, John answered a call for stewards in 1986 ahead of that infamous clash with Laois and he has manned the gates there since that time. Infact, Blessington sent seven volunteers down to Aughrim for that game, many of whom, like John, still volunteer to this day. Whether it's lotto tickets, fundraising, collecting on gates and any other of the umpteen duties that befall club volunteers, you can rest assured that John Magee played a part at some stage and still does to this day. Jill Fadian St Nicholas LGFA Brave, capable, willing, inspiring - these are just a few of the words used when describing Jill Fadian from St Nicholas LGFA Club who was announced as the ladies football award winner for 2019 at Convention in early December. A superb servant for the St Nicholas club, Jill can be found playing at either end of the field such is her natural ability and selflessness. Throw in the fact that the talented footballers is also inspiring the next generation in her role as an underage coach and it's easy to see why her name was top of the list for 2019. Katie Daynes Donard-The Glen In the face of adversity in a sunkissed Dunbur Park with a county championship hanging finely in the balance there was no Donard-The Glen player wanting the title more than full-back and captain Katie Daynes. A few years too many of playing second fiddle to Knockananna had stirred a hunger to right that perceived wrong over in the west and they came with massive intent and desire when the county final got underway in Wicklow town. Daynes led her side from start to finish and was a natural born leader when it came to the crunch. Bray People 
