sport football
{ Stephen Hunt 
    December 06 2014 10:19 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/soccer/other-soccer/stephen-hunt-joe-brolly-might-not-like-it-but-professional-footballers-deserve-respect-30805040.html }
I was pleased Joe Brolly agreed with me last week when he suggested that professional footballers are as likely to be role models as GAA players. "Gandhi may be a role model or Pope Francis," he said "but soccer players are only that." You won't find Pope Francis or Gandhi among the ranks of professional footballers but you won't find them among GAA players either. That is why GAA players and professional footballers are role models for young people. Many kids dream of being a professional footballer or an inter-county hurling or football star. I had both dreams when I was young so I know how important it is to have people you can emulate. Whether we like it or not, kids try to ape footballers. Ideally they'd want to be Gandhi but we should live in the real world. Gandhi was a great man but I haven't met too many kids saying they want to be him when they grow up. That is why I wanted to make the case that professional footballers are as worthy of respect as GAA stars. What I was trying to do last week was lay out the sacrifice made by a professional footballer, especially in the context of people thinking it's an easy life. Perhaps it's silly to get irritated with ridiculous comments made by Joe Brolly, it's like getting irritated with the sun for setting, but I want to respond to the reaction to last week's column. Brolly seems to think that we are self-interested because we don't remain among our local community. "A lot of GAA players are role models because they are part and parcel of a community that expects certain standards. It is a very, very rare occurrence if a GAA player gets in serious trouble. In that very tight-knit community there are certain values instilled in you," he said. I don't want to make this tit-for-tat but maybe those principles are forgotten when you see match officials fleeing a GAA ground in terror, pursued by players and spectators who I guess do all share certain values in that tight-knit community. My point is that bad behaviour is universal, it isn't limited to any sport and only the foolish would claim that it is. Equally, there are people to admire in every sport. Look at the Australian cricket captain Michael Clarke and the role model he has become over the last ten days following the tragic death of Phillip Hughes. Clarke was often criticised for many of the things footballers get knocked about. He had the model girlfriend, the flash car but, as he demonstrated last week, these are superficial and don't prevent somebody understanding what is truly important. Brolly wants to see no good in professional footballers and that's a shame. He says he doesn't think I'd have lasted long in the Ulster club final. "I wouldn't fancy his chances standing on the edge of the square against Patsy Bradley," he said. It doesn't surprise me that he retreats behind the macho wall of the Ulster Gaelic football culture and I guess if the contest isn't a sporting contest but is just some crude violent attack then maybe he's right. Yet what Brolly says is merely speculation and we'll never know for certain how I'd get on in an Ulster final. What we can say for certain, and this was the point I was trying to make, is that most players who head from Ireland to England struggle in an environment which is as cruel and unforgiving as professional football. This is a fact which doesn't need embellishing. When I said that GAA players "wouldn't know what hit them", I wasn't saying they couldn't make it - although so few have when they've tried - but that they would experience a massive culture shock if they were to move from high-level amateur sport to the Premier League. Of course I understand the sacrifices that GAA players make to combine the pursuit of an amateur sport with a career outside the game. It is astonishing that they can play to such a high standard. However, the relentless professional demands of playing three matches a week is another level entirely and just because you are given the opportunity to compete at that level, doesn't mean you can. I read an interview with the former Arsenal midfielder Stephen Bradley last week and he made the point that he found it hard to motivate himself when he started earning money at a young age. This is a reality of professional sport and is why it demands its own sacrifices which is why I concentrated last week on the mundane subject of rest. Professional sport might not be pleasant but that doesn't mean that those who succeed have somehow lost touch with where they have come from. Joe Brolly clearly thinks differently. "It never ceases to amuse me when you see these young fellas - many of whom have spent their lives playing soccer at the expense of education and come from very strong working-class backgrounds - being described as role models because they're famous," he was quoted as saying. Maybe he was misquoted because he seems to be suggesting that footballers can't be role models because they have come from working-class backgrounds and haven't been educated. I see it differently. As Bill Shankly once said, "Me having had no education, I had to use my brains." Sunday Indo Sport 
