sport football
{  
    September 23 2013 07:20 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-football/monday-morning-blues-as-dublin-continues-to-party-29599022.html }
THIS is the type of Monday Morning Blues we’d all like to have. The party continued throughout the night for Dublin following their All-Ireland win over Mayo yesterday at Croke Park. The city literally painted itself blue due to all night celebrations. And the players themselves were up early this morning to play catch up. Not surprisingly, they returned to renowned Dublin pub ‘The Boar’s Head’, the same spot they were at two years ago when they won the All-Ireland then. Backroom team member and former World champion boxer Bernard Dunne joined double All-Ireland winner Paul Flynn at the pub this morning. The pair happily posed with a commemorative poster from the Herald showing their jubilant post match celebrations in Croke Park yesterday afternoon. Dublin Senior Footballer Bernard Brogan also kept his fans up to date with his celebratory antics on social media last night. “Great day, I love being a dub!!” he wrote on Twitter just after midnight. “We are all heading to the new "dugout" bar in coppers, with Sam. Stall it,” he wrote, as the champions gave Sam a taste of a night at the famous Dublin haunt. No doubt the celebrations will continued with their ‘homecoming’ later this evening. Speaking on RTE Radio this morning, Dublin manager Jim Gavin said the team enjoyed their All-Ireland victory celebrations last night. “It’s a fantastic achievement for Dublin GAA and we had a great night last night,” he said. “It was a great team performance – the team showed great heart and great resolve against a fantastic Mayo side. “I know they’re [Mayo] disappointed today – but they’ll be back.” Gavin paid tribute to his captain Stephen Cluxton. “Stephen Cluxton had a fantastic game – he was crucial to our game planning. “He’s an exemplary captain, and we’re delighted for him.” Gavin also paid tribute to Bernard Brogan, who scored two goals and three points during the match. “Bernard Brogan has shown great leadership both on and off the pitch. He had a big performance,” he said. Opening his 2fm chat show this morning, Ryan Tubridy also caught the winning manager on the phone as he enjoyed a breakfast with Marty Morrissey. “The head is great. It’s just a fantastic sense of achievement. It’s a great sense of satisfaction after a lot of hard work throughout the season," Gavin told Tubridy. Gavin didn't join his team in Dublin nightclub Coppers for the post-meal celebrations, but instead said he stayed at the hotel to enjoy the atmosphere. “We have great respect for Mayo and the way they play football. There’s a good relationship between the players and my heart really does go out to them." Although Tubridy described the day as "a jubilant one for fans in blue", he thought both the game and the fans' reaction to the win were "flat". “It was a grand game of football, with a tremendous atmosphere," he said as he opened his morning show. “There was probably more craic off the pitch than there was on it if you know what I mean, but it was a jubilant day for those in blue. “It was a flat game. And I felt the response from the fans was muted too, we didn’t see the ecstasy of previous wins." Dublin manager Jim Gavin said the party would really get started at the ‘homecoming’ celebrations at Merrion Square. The event, which has been organised by Dublin City Council, started this evening at 7pm.  Online Editors 
