sport football
{  
    May 26 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/minister-recognises-sporting-achievement-in-portmarnock-27769212.html }
By John ManningTHE SPORTING achievements of Portmarnock Community School were recognised by the Minister of Education last week when she presented students with the school’s annual sports awards. Sport is at the heart of school activities in Portmarnock, where Principal, David Sweeney believes that sport teaches students about team work and gives them a discipline that they can apply to their academic studies. Participation in sport, according to Mr Sweeney, helps immeasurably in the character formation of students as well as providing the obvious health benefits in a time when the sedentary lifestyle of Irish teenagers is causing concern. According to him, studies have shown schools with a strong sports programme produce students that also achieve academically. ‘Academic achievement and sporting achievement go hand in hand here and we are very proud of the diversity of sports we make available to our students,’ Mr Sweeney said. Sport has always been an important part of the school’s culture and forms part of the school motto which talks about striving for ‘participation and challenge’ across the school curriculum. The school offers an extraordinary array of sports from soccer and gaelic football to volleyball, gymnastics and even golf. Minister Mary Hanafin was on hand to present the awards and was impressed with the breadth of sporting endeavour at the school. The Minister complimented the school on the range of sports it made available to the students and remarked the school was an example to follow in the fight against teenage obesity. David Sweeney said the sports awards are a ‘very significant event in the school’s calendar’. ‘The awards are a chance to formally recognise the efforts of teachers and students that participate in sport.’ Mr Sweeney said the extensive sports programme at the school could not succeed without the hours of voluntary work put in by teachers in coaching and managing sports at the school, under the school’s sports co-ordinator, Padraig O’Cearra. It’s a sports programme that has achieved extraordinary results over the years and many graduates of Portmarnock Community School have gone on to represent club, county and even country, in a wide range of sports. Recent sporting achievements at the school include being crowned Dublin Colleges champions in the U18 gaelic football competition and reaching two major soccer finals. In their first year out, the school’s girls rugby team took the Dublin title and the school, up until recently, had a firm grip on the All-Ireland Volleyball title for a number of years. There were boys and girls winners in three underage categories at the awards, across a wide range of sports with the players of the year, and the most promising players of the year, all being recognised. The names of the winners are too numerous to mention here but they all deserve the highest praise for their efforts during the sporting year. The school was delighted to welcome the Minster for Education for the ceremony and Minster Hanafin left the school, suitably impressed with the array of sporting talent she had met. 
