sport football
{  
    April 23 2011 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/sport-and-banking-where-hype-and-hysteria-rhyme--26726077.html }
The most dangerous vehicle known to humanity is a bandwagon. For a vivid illustration of the mayhem that ensues when one of these overcrowded jalopies runs amok, take a look at Peter Nyberg's report into the causes of the banking crisis. The report exposes the "herd mentality" and "groupthink" that gripped much of Irish society during the boom when conventional wisdom decreed that the property market could only make everyone richer. "As in most manias, those caught up in it could believe and have trust in extraordinary things," writes Nyberg. National manias are more readily identified from without than within. Inevitably, therefore, there has been little surprise outside Scotland about the fact that the vicious sectarianism which has long blighted its football culture has now slipped over into terrorism. Viewed from a distance, the interception of the crude postal bombs sent to Celtic manager Neil Lennon and some of his associates is simply the latest instalment in a very long saga of hatred, violence and intimidation, inside and outside Glasgow's football stadiums. Whatever about the incendiary devices themselves, the mentality behind them has been smouldering for decades. Ironically, the only people who've been shocked by the Celtic bombs affair are those naïve football fans who've swallowed whole the hype about sport in general and football in particular being a force for unalloyed good. Ireland is a sports-besotted nation. There are many positive aspects to our sporting passion but its very feverishness and the extent to which it influences every corner of our culture should give pause for thought. Unchecked and unexamined, obsession eventually gives way to mania. It is then that apparently sane people start to "believe and have trust in extraordinary things". Sport is grotesquely romanticised -- by sports organisations, politicians and, of course, the media for whom it is a rich cash cow. We're constantly told that sport represents all that is noble in civilisation: striving for excellence, team spirit, fair play. The reality is often very different. Football may be a beautiful game but it's an ugly business, bloated by greed and awash in racism, sexism and violence. On the terraces, tribalism can all too easily mutate into bellicosity. While few football rivalries have the same visceral unpleasantness as Celtic and Rangers, the interlocking of football with political violence is not uncommon. Even at the best of times, however, herd mentality and groupthink are polite terms for the sports fanatic's mindset. Given Ireland's economic plight, the healthiness or otherwise of our sports-fixation might seem like an irrelevancy. To those who say our obsession with sport is beside the point, however, I say two words: Bertie Ahern. Despite his conspicuous lack of political vision, Ahern repeatedly proved himself an irresistible electoral prospect for many, at least partly because he successfully cultivated an image as a congenial sports fan who'd rather talk about the Dublin Gaelic football team or Manchester United than anything else. The fact that his most cherished policy was a proposal to build an enormous sports stadium probably endeared him to as many voters as it repelled. Which brings us back to where we came in. Ahern's legacy to the nation is writ large in the Nyberg report. If analysts of our predicament insist on viewing the crash through a psychological lens, they should be more rigorous in their diagnosis: no dissection of Ireland's property madness is complete without reference to the role played by football craziness. Indo Review 
