sport football
{ Eamonn Sweeney 
    October 11 2014 10:01 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/soccer/international-soccer/hold-the-back-page-better-to-give-up-the-ghost-30656850.html }
Martin O'Neill reacted with some incredulity to the news last week that James McClean was writing an autobiography, commenting, "You're kidding! Seriously? An autobiography? You're talking about James McClean? I thought you wrote an autobiography when you'd done something." Which goes to show how out of tune with the modern age you are, old timer.  McClean is well advised to get cracking on his memoirs now because that'll give him a chance to knock out a second volume when he retires. These days in sport you're nobody unless you have a couple of autobiographies. After all, last week also saw the publication of Roy Keane's second autobiography, last year saw Ronan O'Gara tell all for the second time in five years, while not-massively-famous Gareth Thomas is after producing his second in six years. Though, of course, in reality none of these men actually wrote their autobiographies, even though they will nod proudly and graciously accept the plaudits as some chat show host or other congratulates them on how well written it is. It's a funny thing this not actually writing your own autobiography lark. And while there are undoubtedly readers out there who actually think that Ronan or Roy or Gareth hunkered down at the computer and grafted through the chapters, the role of the ghost writer is pretty much common knowledge. In reality most sporting autobiographies are not, strictly speaking, autobiographies but the record of a series of interviews between the writer and the subject which the writer then ventriloquises into something supposed to approximate to the subject's own voice. As are, by the way, most newspaper columns supposed to be written by sportspeople. It's a pity really that more don't actually write their own autobiographies. Because when they have done the results have usually outshone the ghostwritten efforts. Perhaps the best of all sporting autobiographies is The Game by ice hockey's Ken Dryden, an account of the writer's time as goalkeeper with the all conquering Montreal Canadiens published in 1983 and ranked ninth on Sports Illustrated's best sports books of all-time list. Though biased towards American sport, the list is as close as you'll get to a definitive one. Pluck almost any book from it and you're guaranteed a great read. And there are another couple of self-penned autobiographies high up the list as well. Jim Bouton's diary of his time as a pitcher with the Houston Astros is at number three while another pitcher, Jim Brosnan's The Long Season is at 19 with his diary of a season with the St Louis Cardinals and Cincinatti Reds. I'd heartily recommend both of those books too. And what makes them compelling is the same thing which makes Eamon Dunphy's Only A Game such a terrific achievement, the sense of a voice coming to life on the page. You're only going to get that kind of effect if the player has sat down and done the hard work themselves. Even the most skilful ghost writer can't erase the trace of himself entirely from the narrative. So why do most sportspeople sub-contract the telling of the story of what is, after all, their own life? One reason is that writing a book is quite a difficult and time-consuming job and there are more than a few sportsmen and women out there who aren't particularly verbal. There's no shame in that: if you've devoted your life to perfecting a sport chances are you haven't also had the time to perfect your prose style. It requires a pretty high-powered individual to master both disciplines. Dryden, for example, went on to become Canada's Minister for Social Development while Bill Bradley, writer of the fine Life on the Run about his time with basketball's New York Knicks, went on to become a US Senator and challenge Al Gore for the Democratic Presidential nomination in 2000. Yet there are undoubtedly some sports stars who might well have the writing chops to pen their own memoir but don't, on the understandable if lazy grounds that it's handier having a ghost writer do all the work. The problem with this is that the individual voice of the player is completely lacking when presumably that's what a lot of readers would actually like to hear. Take Roy Keane's first autobiography, skilfully and entertainingly crafted by Dunphy. The problem with Keane was that in railing against the establishment, portraying himself as a lighthouse of virtue in a morass of mediocrity and settling scores with Jack Charlton, he actually sounded a lot like, well, Eamon Dunphy. And why not? Dunphy wrote the book after all. Keane has been canny in his choice of collaborators. Both Dunphy and the current amanuensis Roddy Doyle are writers of such large gifts and strong personality that their work on any subject will always be well worth reading. We should all have such biographers. Paul Kimmage of this parish is another ghost of genius. Full Time, his Tony Cascarino book ,is a bit of a masterpiece. But all the same I'd still prefer to read Rough Ride, Kimmage's own autobiographical book about riding in the Tour de France. Cascarino told by Kimmage is interesting, Kimmage on Kimmage is utterly absorbing. The problem is that few ghost writers reach those heights. Really great books are written because the writer had a burning need to write them in order to get something across. Most ghostwriting gigs, on the other hand, are done solely for the money. The result is that there is a slick sameness about the books. Very few of that Sports Illustrated top 100 were ghostwritten. If you want to write something that's really going to last, it seems, you have to write about what moves you. Yet publishers seem to rely more and more on the ghosted autobiography. Name recognition means they sell well in many cases. My theory is that quite a lot of books are bought by older relations as Christmas presents for young men on the grounds that seeing as they like football they'll surely love a book with a footballer on the cover. There's a dutiful rote feel to the modern autobiography. Some personal crisis will be described in the piece that ends up being serialised in the papers, an account of depression or heavy drinking being a popular choice. The mood is upbeat, however, and the problem has usually been overcome by the time pen is put to paper. Stories of depression still being struggled with or alcoholism remaining unconquered are notable by their absence. There is an appearance of revelation about these books but real revelation rarely occurs. Take the aforementioned Gareth Thomas, who in 2008 published an autobiography which managed to omit the rather interesting fact that he was gay. The following year Thomas came out as gay and is now back with a new autobiography, entitled Pride. Bully for him and all that but those who lapped up book number one may feel entitled to a refund. A book which leaves out as central a fact about someone as their sexual identity is, to all intents and purposes, a pretty worthless bit of work. The ghost writer is, after all, in a bit of a bind. Without his subject's co-operation the project is dead in the water so, unless the writer possesses Machiavellian skills of manipulation, what gets told is the story the sportsman wants to be revealed. And it's usually what someone doesn't want revealed which is the most interesting thing about them. The biographer can do this, the ghost can't. I remember after criticising one fairly colourless GAA autobiography in recent years being told that the book had actually been brilliant before its subject, regretting his earlier candour, went through the final draft and had more or less everything interesting removed. Full disclosure. A couple of years back the agent of a well-known Irish sporting figure offered me the chance to write the player's autobiography. I turned it down, though I could have done with the money, for the simple reason that as I find this kind of book a chore to read, God only knows what torment it would be to write one. And also because, as the man had already published an autobiography a few years earlier, the whole project seemed superfluous. The problem with this concentration on ghosted autobiographies is that in publishing, the bad often drives out the good. So while publishers take the unimaginative option, there are really good sports books going unpublished, books which would be a better use of the talents of the ghost brigade. Where's the in-depth book about the extraordinary feats of our Olympic boxing team? Or a good history of Irish athletics? The fly on the wall accounts of inter-county teams? A book tracing the course of the club championships from first round to Croke Park? Or biographies of our top sports stars which are written from an independent viewpoint? They'll stay unwritten while publishers continue kicking to touch. By 2020 Keane and O'Gara will no doubt have made it a hat-trick and maybe Thomas will have written, 'Playing for both teams - my life as a bisexual rugby player'. Martin O'Neill can scoff all he wants but James McClean will be on the shelves too. And working on his second one.   Card effect a black day for negativity Well, it's official. The black card works. GAA figures show that the average number of points in football league and championship games increased by almost 10 per cent in 2014. And this rise of almost three points per game is even more impressive when you consider that 2013 actually had an anomalously high scoring level. In 2010, for example, the average score per game was 30.37 and in 2012 it was 30.50. Today it's a whopping 34.92. Those of us, like myself, who doubted whether you could legislate for footballing morality have had our answer. An even more striking figure is that the average number of frees awarded nosedived from 42.17 to 36.43. Yellow cards were down too, from 6.89 per game last year to 3.39. In the absence of any other notable change to the rules, we can pretty safely pinpoint the introduction of the black card as accounting for this encouraging result. Referees actually awarded an average of less than one per game but players took it seriously as a deterrent all the same, hence the decrease in frees and cards. Indeed, one of the emblematic images of the season was that of defenders poised to bring down an opponent and then whipping their hand away as if deciding that 'taking one for the team' wasn't such a great idea after all. The funny thing about this is that there was such a chorus of negativity about the black card throughout the season. At times commentators and analysts seemed to be competing with each other on how best to mock the concept. Any mistake by the referee, or reluctance to flash the card, was greeted by declarations that this showed the whole concept to be utterly misbegotten. Why all this negativity? Well, the GAA has always had people who, like the Jennifer Lawrence character in American Hustle, would sooner die than change. And theirs has been an influential voice as they voted down many proposals over the years on the grounds that opposing change simply because it is change is a good thing. The black card rule wasn't perfect in 2014. Some referees were haphazard in applying it and seemed to think they had carte blanche to interpret the rules in their own quirky fashion. But it made football better. And maybe it showed that other forward-looking think-tank proposals deserve a bit better than knee-jerk rejection from now on. What's also interesting about the figures is that they confirm a move from negativity towards positivity in Gaelic football. The obituaries for Jim McGuinness's Donegal reign seemed to take it for granted that his defensive-minded approach created a paradigm shift in football. But the figures say otherwise. Could it be that Jim Gavin's attack-minded Dublin of 2013 will actually turn out to have been a far more influential team?   Chance to energise dull Leinster show It's amazing the difference a good championship draw makes. You can be sure, for example, that after the draw was made on Thursday night, the footballers of Leitrim and Sligo will have had an extra spring in their step. Roscommon will still be favourites to overcome either of them in the semi-final, but a Connacht draw which sees them avoid both Galway and Mayo is always a good one for the minnows. Similarly Monaghan, who might have felt themselves to be in decline after surrendering their Ulster title to Donegal, will surely be buoyed by a draw which puts them in the same half as Antrim, Fermanagh and Cavan. Compare their fate to that of Donegal. Already reeling from the departure of Jim McGuinness, they're faced with the prospect of having to beat Tyrone, Armagh and Derry simply to reach the Ulster final. Cork hurlers will surely feel blessed to have avoided Limerick, Clare and Tipperary. They can reach the provincial final by beating Waterford. On the other hand Waterford will remember that they held Cork to a draw first time out this year and will think they have a real opportunity to make the final. This year's beaten finalists Limerick, though, will have to overcome Clare and Tipp just to get into the decider. The Munster football championship draw was yet again devoid of interest thanks to Kerry and Cork being drawn apart, a slap in the face after Tipperary and Clare's massively improved showing. But the Leinster Council have the opportunity to show a bit of imagination by fixing Dublin's match against the winners of the Offaly and Longford game away from Croke Park. It's 2006 since Dublin went on the road in the Leinster Championship, travelling to Pearse Park to squeeze past Longford by two points. Isn't it time they got out of the city again? A match at a packed Pearse Park or O'Connor Park would be a festival occasion, whereas if the GAA stick to precedent and play it in Croke Park the stadium will probably be half empty. Financial considerations are always invoked to explain why Dublin cannot play Leinster Championship matches outside Croke Park. But there are more important things than money. And one of them is adding a bit of variety to what has become the most boring provincial championship in Ireland. backpage@independent.ie Sunday Indo Sport 
