sport football
{ VINCENT GRIBBIN 
    January 02 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/hill-a-man-for-all-seasons-26161420.html }
THERE'S just 364 days to go until the new Millennium. It's a sobering thought at a time of year when minds turn towards what has passed and what's to come. Whether we see Jimmy Hill involved in the coverage of another World Cup is anybody's guess. Fifty years in football when the curtain fell on the BBC's excellent coverage of France '98, and now aged 70, Hill was the subject of the Beeb's premier sporting offering over the festive season. Are You Watching Jimmy Hill? (BBC2) was a one-hour biopic, which, for those who had the good sense to watch it, will have gone some way to educating those with a distaste for its subject quite why Hill is actually a revered figure in the English football firmament. ``People have got a false impression of me,'' Hill said at the start, before we got a glimpse into the life the man who, as chairman of the Professional Footballers Association (PFA) broke football's maximum wage, worked as a chimney sweep while playing for Brentford and, who, as manager of Coventry City brought them from football obscurity to the old First Division in 1967. The club has never since been relegated. An eccentric with a weakness for women (he's been married three times), Hill effectively changed soccer when, as a player with Fulham, he took on the English League and mealy mouthed club directors in a bid to ensure players got their cut of the money which was beginning to flood into the English game. ``There was a feeling we were being treated like serfs and manipulated. I had an inner rage towards the administrators who looked down their noses at us,'' said Hill. An injured knee and his insistence that the chairman of the PFA should be a full-time professional ended his career as a player and union official, but he was to make further impact in his next role as manager of Coventry City. He introduced a commercial element at the club which was years ahead of its time and ensured that the then rapidly growing city of Coventry had a sporting identity before leaving for ITV Sport where he anchored their 1970 World Cup coverage. There he fronted what became known as ``The Panel from Hell Pat Crerand, Derek Dougan and Malcolm Allison, before departing for the BBC where he has effectively made a career of speaking what often sounds like errant nonsense and offending the Scots, and, more particularly, Alex Ferguson. Okay, so I'm a fan. I like Jimmy Hill because he's entertaining, although his role as manager of an all-star side which toured apartheid South Africa is a major blot on his copybook. SO many soccer pundits appear to believe their role is purely that of a cold, hard analyst, but television sport's commentary should never be just about dissection. In the mould of the great true English eccentric he's a bit mad, talks nonsense and is a shameless self-publicist. On The Premiership's (N2) round-up of St Stephen's Day happenings, Eamon Dunphy stuck to the guns he's been clinging to all season and insisted that Aston Villa would not win the title, He, like me, fancies Arsenal to do it again, while John Giles' money is on Chelsea. It's a bit on the obvious side to state that Giles and Hill have little in common and that point was borne out when, en foot of his prediction regarding Chelsea, Bill O'Herlihy asked John if `sexy football' was thus going to pay off. ``I don't know what sexy football is,'' said Gilesey, marking a direct contrast with Hill's statement earlier that weekend that he ``liked flirting with women, but not dangerously these days, the consequences can be very embarrassing.'' Sonia O'Sullivan should pick up the RTÉ Ballygowan Sports Personality of the Year Award (RTÉ1, tonight, 9.30) and this observer isn't ashamed to admit how he got all emotional when she crossed the line to take gold in the European Championship 10,000m final. Even for someone who turns a pound writing TV sports critiques, it was one of those moments when the viewing context mattered not one whit. I could have been watching her on an old black and white set with commentary in Chinese and it wouldn't have detracted one iota from the moment. That was my highlight of a year in which RTÉ excelled itself through The Premiership, Aprés Match and its retention of Pat Spillane as a Gaelic football analyst despite the by now much publicised pressure to show him the road back to Templenoe for simply telling the truth. The BBC's World Cup coverage, was of course, a pure delight, the sad irony being that they have the rights to little else in the way of live sport. RTÉ did an okay job on France '98, but their experiment in allowing Niall Quinn and Andy Townsend to anchor afternoon matches became more cringe inducing the longer it went on. Iran's win over the US was my moment of the tournament. TV3's Sports Tonight had its first outing on the night the Galway team was picked for the All-Ireland football final but didn't bother reporting that fact. The show has shown a marked indifference to Gaelic games since. The station did a fairly good job with its coverage of the Republic of Ireland's Euro 2000 away tie in Yugoslavia. How it fares in Croatia, Macedonia and Malta will tell a tale, but as yet big-time soccer apart TV3 has shown no commitment to sports programming and could learn a thing or two from TnaG which buys in lots of indigenous and foreign sport on the cheap in this regard. Incidentally, A Year 'Till Sunday the inside story of Galway's All-Ireland campaign, goes out on RTÉ1 next Tuesday at 9.30. WEEKEND HIGHLIGHTS GENERAL The Sporting Year, RTE1 tonight 9.30.
 SOCCER English FA Cup Match of the Day, BBC1 tonight 10.30; Port Vale v Liverpool, live UTV tomorrow 1.30; Manchester United v Middlesbrough, live Sky Sports 2 tomorrow 3.30; Rangers v Celtic, live Sky Sports 1 tomorrow 5.30; Shamrock Rovers v Finn Harps, N2 tomorrow 9.30 
