sport football
{ DAVID GRAVES in London 
    September 06 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/murdoch-tightens-sports-grip-26173420.html }
TWO years ago Rupert Murdoch spelled out the philosophy that has led BSkyB to bid £575m for Manchester United. Sport, he candidly told his shareholders, would be used as a ``battering ram'' to create a wider market for the global pay-television services offered by his News Corporation. He said sport in general, and football in particular, ``absolutely overpowers'' film and all other forms of entertainment as an incentive for viewers to subscribe to cable and satellite television. Murdoch's television stations in Britain, America, Australia and Asia have steadily signed up leading sports in exclusive deals. He has now expanded the strategy to buying top clubs himself to increase his stranglehold on the lucrative television and marketing rights available and freeze out his competitors. Murdoch is now probably the world's single biggest investor in global sport. Already his sporting portfolio includes the Los Angeles Dodgers baseball team which his Fox TV network bought in March for more than $185m as well interests in the LA Lakers and New York Knicks basketball teams and the New York Rangers ice hockey club. In Australia, his Super League signed up many of the country's leading rugby league players. Now, in Britain, Murdoch's BSkyB channel stands to buy Manchester United, financially the most successful soccer club in the world. If the deal is completed BskyB, which already has exclusive rights to live Premiership soccer games, rugby league, rugby union and contracts for major cricket events, will have an iron grip on British sport. Murdoch realises that sport is by far the best way to persuade affluent young men to watch television. It also has another major advantage for an impatient entrepreneur it does not need expensive product development. Main sporting events can almost guarantee large audiences. Sport is a global offering that transcends language, culture and involves few political sensitivities. The overwhelming success of soccer on BSkyB was credited with turning round the channel's fortunes in the early 1990s after it paid £304m for the television rights to the new England Premier League in 1992. This convinced Murdoch of the importance of the use of sport on TV as a bait for viewers. It transformed the group into Britain's most powerful media company. Not surprisingly, it led him to tell shareholders at News Corp's annual meeting in 1996: ``We have the long-term rights in most countries to major sporting events and we will be doing in Asia what we intend to do elsewhere in the world that is use sports as a battering ram and a lead offering in all our pay television operations.'' Mr Murdoch's strategy has involved paying astronomical sums to outbid public broadcasting channels for the exclusive rights to televise sport. BSkyB, in which he has a 40pc stake, now spends about £100m a-year about a third of its annual programming budget on sport. The FA Premier League luxuriates in a four-year contract with BSkyB worth £647m. The Rugby Football Union accepted £87.5m in return for granting BSkyB exclusive rights to televise England's home matches and English club rugby until the 2001-02 season. In the southern hemisphere, Murdoch paid $340m in 1995 for a 10-year deal to exclusively screen rugby union from Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. Rugby league, whose audiences had been dwindling, won a contract worth £87m over five years from BSkyB in 1996 in exchange for switching its games from winter to summer. Part of the strategy was to build a super league, allowing the best teams from Britain and Australia to play each other on BSkyB. Test match cricket is not only valuable to BSkyB but also to his Hong Kong-based Star TV, which broadcasts it to the cricket-obsessed Indian audience. What Murdoch did with BSkyB he replicated with Fox in America, paying close to $1b in 1994 to wrest a four-year contract for the National Football Conference from CBS. It was regarded as one of the biggest-ever sporting coups in the US, where the top eight television programmes are all sporting events. Earlier this year Fox kept the rights to the NFC which it describes as its ``crown jewel'' with a bid of $340m a year. Now he has turned his attention to Manchester United, one of the most famous names in the world of soccer. The deal will give him a key position in any negotiations for a new European super league, as well as pivotal influence over the Premier League. It also comes while BSkyB is making final preparations to launch its 200-channel digital television service. The acquisition of United will give BSkyB the opportunity to broadcast the club's own television channel and screen all live games. If the takeover opens the way for him to secure the rights to European Super League football, it could give him a platform to expand BSkyB to the continent. His vast digital service would enable viewers to see the game they wanted, with the commentary in the language of their choice. United's games would also attract a healthy following in Asia and America. Almost incidental to Rupert Murdoch's determination to tighten his grip on lucrative sports broadcasting by buying Manchester United, he will also have inherited one of the most profitable and best branded names in Britain. The club has an annual revenue of £87.9m virtually equal to the joint income of the two Italian clubs, Juventus and Inter Milan. In the last year, United made profits of £27.6m thanks to massive contributions from sales of merchandise, catering, sponsorship and television rights.  (Daily Telegraph, London) 
