sport football
{ NORTHERN NOTEBOOK By TERRY McLAUGHLIN 
    May 20 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/never-on-a-sunday-26254756.html }
SUNDAY sport has always been an issue to raise the hackles in certain quarters of Northern Ireland life.    And while the ever-increasing influence SUNDAY sport has always been an issue to raise the hackles in certain quarters of Northern Ireland life. And while the ever-increasing influence of televised sport has made the concept more acceptable to elements in Northern society, which would have been openly hostile only a few decades ago, the resistance to changing the pattern of Saturday sport to a Sunday is still deeply entrenched in many individuals. Like so much in the North, it was a lot to do with the community with which an individual identifies. In polite terms, the code used is a Continental Sunday. The continentals have a much more relaxed attitude to Sunday observance, so the theory goes. And that means they have no problem, no cultural hangups about playing their chosen sport on Sunday afternoon. So, the theory goes. In blunter vernacular, Continental Sunday attitudes equate with Catholic Church attitudes. For people with fundamental religious views, completely at variance with the Catholic Church, the prospect of sport eroding their firmly-held values, is something to be fought with intellectual vigour. The defence of the status quo in the North is a central tenant of life as far as both communities are concerned. To be seen to be giving ground, to compromise, is effectively viewed as a surrender of basic principles. And surrender is a stigma word of Northern Ireland life, a word that is spat out with a spittle of vitriolic venom, whenever the scent of change in attitudes starts to hang heavily in the corridors of change. Soccer, as opposed to other sports, has always been part of the Saturday equation in the North. Gaelic games have always been part of the Sunday tradition. Increasingly, however, rugby, cricket, hockey and athletics have decided that there are certain benefits in promoting their sports on the Sabbath. Sport is now big business. And to survive in business, the supporters of Sunday sport argue that there has to be the flexibility of choice. On Tuesday week next, Newry Town Football Club will put forward a motion at the Annual General Meeting of the Irish Football Association, calling for the current ban on Sunday football to be lifted. THE motion is couched in the technical language needed for rulebooks. Just a few words. But, those tightly-delivered words from Newry Town do have the potential to provide a radical overhaul of soccer in Northern Ireland. The consequences for the game are enormous, however, on a wide variety of fronts, if the assembled delegates vote in support of the Newry motion. There is a general acceptance that the game needs a drastic revamp, a change in direction. Newry Town believe, as a business with severe financial difficulties, that they must,at least, have the option of scheduling their games for Sundays, if they are to maximise support levels in the border town. It would appear that they have the general support of the rest of the clubs in the Irish League for their proposal. But the plan put forward by Newry Town to delete the controversial Never On A Sunday ban will not hinge on the Irish League clubs alone. For there is a considerable belly of opinion which believes that in the current climate it will be better to let sleeping rules lie sleeping. That body of opinion argues that if the ban remains, a decision on whether an individual club or league should allow games on a Sunday, does not have to be taken. The burden of responsibility for provoking possible conflict between clubs and players because of cultural or religious attitudes would, therefore, not arise. THE counter argument is that the implementation of change would be a progressive step forward for the face of football in the North. As all soccer in Northern Ireland, both amateur and professional, is played only on a Saturday, there is a huge potential for boosted attendances at selected games played on a Sunday. The Irish League would not have to be in competition with the scores of local Amateur Leagues, as is the current situation. And the extra flexibility over time and playing would help with the building up of a desperately-needed new image for Irish League football. Then there is the added dimension of `live' television coverage, now provided on Sunday afternoons by SKY Television. At present, the League of Ireland, which plays most of its games on a Sunday, is compensated by Sky to the tune of £500,000 a season. The compensation deal is worth around £20,000 to each of the 22 League of Ireland clubs, and is a valuable source of additional income. For many Irish League clubs, cash-strapped and struggling for any sort of financial lifeline, that type of financial aid could be the difference between floating or continuing to sink towards oblivion. And while there is now a simmering dispute over whether or not the League of Ireland will continue to attract that extra subvention from Sky Television next season, on the new arrangements with UEFA, the very possibility that it could be used to the advantage of Northern clubs will weigh heavily when the vote is taken. Under present UEFA rules, stations such as Sky are not permitted to provide `live' coverage of matches into a neighbouring football jurisdiction unless agreed compensation has been hammered out with the governing body of football in that state. CURRENTLY, the Saturday-only rule in the Irish League means it is unable to claim any adverse impact by Sky scheduling its Super Sunday series of English and Scottish Premiership Football. But, no adverse impact means no chance to even negotiate for the crumbs, let alone a slice of the Sky cash. Sunday soccer, however, could change all that with the obvious financial benefits there to be tapped into. Soccer in Northern Ireland is, however, not just about the Irish League and semi-professional football. It is about the Fermanagh and District League and the Newcastle League and the Ballymena Saturday Morning League and other Leagues such as the Churches League and the Old Boys League, the bread-and-butter footballers. The Churches League Clubs and the Old Boys teams attached to tens and scores of Boys' Brigades Units across Northern Ireland will also demand their right to their show of hands at the meeting in the Wellington Park Hotel. They provide the bedrock mixture of sport and biblical religious values, still so important to the majority community, the non-Continental Sunday community. For Football in the North is a game of fundamentals. And there are fundamentalists who will not countenance any watering down of their principle. On Tuesday of next week, with a three quarters majority of all delegates required for Newry Town's motion to be passed, it seems certain that the fundamentalist flag will still be flying next season. 
