sport football
{  
    October 15 2010 09:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/news/face-to-face-with-the-one-and-only-27338302.html }
IF HE SAYS it once, he must say it three or four times: 'I can't take myself too seriously.' Nevertheless, sitting down on an autumn afternoon to review the career of Liam Spratt is by no means a laugh a minute exercise– there is simply too much to pack in. The half hour allocated to the job proves hopelessly inadequate and by the end of an hour (or more) there is still no answer to the initial question – 'Liam, how should I describe you?' Salesman? Broadcaster? Sportsman? Entertainer? Yes, Spratt can be all of those, not to mention family man, comedian, entrepreneur.... and the list goes on, underlining that the cheeky chappy from Bree is capable of fitting more into a day than many another manages in a year. He admits that his tendency to fill every waking hour means that he often runs late, constantly playing catch up with an impossible schedule. 'I was always a multi-tasker. I thrive better under pressure,' he muses, making a virtue of dizzying busy-ness, between mouthfuls of the toasted sandwich he is eating on the run while making a few minutes for the 'Face to Face' interview. Searching for an explanation to explain this frenetic behaviour, he suggests that it stems in part from the fact that he never turns down an invitation to get involved in things, especially things in his home parish. These days, home is in Clonroche, just a stone's throw from the grounds of Cloughbawn G.A.A. club, but it was in Bree that he was reared, the oldest in a family of eight children. The advantage of being one of such a large brood was that there were enough players for hurling or football. Money was not plentiful in the household but there was always plenty of diversion. There was also a good education to be had at the hands of Kerryman Jonathan Moriarty, recalled as a hard task master but an inspirational teacher in the local national school. The master commanded respect, if only because he had the distinction of having played senior football, not only for the Kingdom, but also Dublin and Wexford. Such sporting prowess impressed young Liam more than the square on any hypotenuse. 'I wasn't really into education,' he confesses, offering his sympathy to the modern generation of teenagers tied to the tyranny of the points race. In his day, it was possible to leave school immediately after sitting the Intermediate (precursor of the Junior Cert) and still find a career – in his case with Quinnsworth. The supermarket chain took him on as a trainee manager and found they had a natural salesman on their hands. However, the job meant long hours and a great deal of switching around. Quinnsworth placed him in an assortment of Dublin stores (Stillorgan, Ranelagh, Baggot Street and Crumlin in turn) before finding him a niche in Waterford. It was there that he noticed an advert for a job with Wyeth, the giant medical company. They were looking for sales reps, so Liam raced up to Dublin in his yellow mini one evening after work in the supermarket to tell them how much they needed him: 'I sold myself,' he says recalling the successful interview. 'After all, I had been in retail.' Retailing for Wyeth meant peddling Bisodol, Anadin, cough bottles and cures for warts, all from the company car that replaced the yellow Mini. It was a job that kept him occupied for 28 years, most of the time spent covering the South East as it allowed him return to County Wexford. 'You have to be cut out for it. A salesman's life can be lonely and there is the pressure to meet targets,' he says, though not in any spirit of complaint. The plus side was that he had to meet people, and he cultivated the trick of the trade which dictates: 'you have to be expert on sport and politics – the great openers.' To keep himself up to speed with the great openers, he cultivated the habit of reading at least one national newspaper every day, plus whatever the local press served up. The habit is now ingrained. When it came to sport, he was also able to draw on a genuine love of playing and watching. Now into his late fifties, he is old enough to recall seeing the World Cup final of 1966 on television. He also remembers pedalling off with his brother john to Breen's field, where it was a privilege to rub shoulders with luminaries of the local Ballyhogue football (and just a little hurling) club. Cue to drop names such as Phil Wilson, Willie Foley and Denis Asple. Forty years on, the awe may still be detected in the voice. However, in keeping with his scatter-gun character, it was not enough to play just a mere couple of sports. Warren's of Bree had a grass tennis court, on which he would play into the pitch dark on summer night. When the court was occupied then there was always the chance of a game of croquet, a game that hides ruthless competition behind a veneer of gentility. And Spratt has always been competitive, with no understanding of how anyone can leave the field without giving of their utmost. He fitted in well, so, in that hotbed of rivalry which was the 'Tops of the Parish' scene in Bree at the time he was growing up. Little Liam was assigned to the cast of the Clonmore variety squad at the age of seven, sharpening his funny bone in humorous sketches, and learning how to use the stage as a platform for slagging people. From there he graduated to Macra na Feirme and the chance to move on from Bree Hall to the stage of the Gaiety Theatre or the Opera House in Cork. Peter Byrne directed the group to several All-Ireland victories. Peter's protégé with the Groucho Marx moustache was given the freedom to develop a hilarious double act with Hannah Whelan. Liam still recalls rolling in from Bree to perform with the Macra gang at a vast cavernous auditorium in Limerick: 'We arrived with our set twenty feet wide and the stage was as big as a football field!' In due course, he was recruited by Enniscorthy theatre group and the same competitive streak was well catered for on the thespian front. His first show at the Athenaeum was in Bernard Farrell's 'Canaries'. He also took particular satisfaction from playing Captain Boyle opposite Andy Doyle as Joxer and the late Mary Horgan as Juno in O'Casey's 'Juno and the Paycock'. The production mopped up on the drama festival circuit but Liam is still trying to work out why it only finished third in the All-Ireland. He also has a track record as a guitarist, the skill picked up young in association with Tom Carr and Jimmy Broaders in Bree He was known to appear in pubs as one half of a duo with Doris Kelly. So he was not without vocal experience when he was finally dragooned by Ray Quigley into Enniscorthy musical society. Ray let him loose in 'The Wizard of Oz' as the Scarecrow in the early nineties, and opened up a whole new world of entertaining for a man who admits to one great disability as a performer. 'My biggest problem is remembering lines. I have a hopeless memory,' confesses Liam Spratt. At least a commercial salesman had a tape deck in his company car, on which cassettes of scripts could be endless played and replayed. One suspects that he feels more at ease making up his own lines – a gift which puts radio commentary right up his alley. Liam is very, very vague about exactly how he found himself providing word pictures on matches for listeners in the early days of unlicensed radio. He does, however, remember being in the 'studio' of a pirate station one afternoon when the proprietor arrived in mid-programme to grab hold of whatever equipment he could and skedaddle before the authorities arrived. He also has a vivid recollection of how he was given the beck to come into legitimate broadcasting. He was sitting in his car outside the post office in Enniscorthy when Eamonn Buttle knocked on the window to sound him out for a role with South East Radio. Within ten days he was on air, doing the job that has made him a household name across the county for the past two decades. Talk about duck to water! He has revelled in the opportunity to promote Wexford sport on the airwaves. The high point, of course, was the successful hurling campaign of 1996. He waxes sentimental about crying shoulder to shoulder with team manager Liam Griffin as the opentopped bus that bore the champions out of Gorey back home with the McCarthy Cup. The job has also opened up chances to meet super stars whom others must worship from afar – Terry Wogan, David Beckham, Greg Norman and the great Seán Kelly. Liam really is a living, breathing fan with a microphone, hanging around the dressing rooms as well as painting his word pictures up in the press gallery. The enthusiasm is endless. Weekends are devoted to sport, thanks to the understanding support of wife Jane (nee Flood). He suggests that being a part-timer at the mike helps to give his radio persona a certain freshness. While once weekdays were taken up with selling Bisodol, he now has his own successful clothes embroidery business since taking a settlement from Wyeth four years ago... The sandwich is long since eaten but here are a few more titbits from the Spratt file. As a member of Enniscorthy rugby club, he played on every team from firsts down to fourths. He appeared in soccer with St. Carthage's of Courtnacuddy, Wexford Bohs and Bree United. He also turned out as a cricketer for Merrion C.C. – the club that also produced Test player Ed Joyce. Both daughter Aoife and son Cathal are described as fellow sports and music nuts. 'I can't take myself too seriously,' he insists. IF HE SAYS it once, he must say it three or four times: 'I can't take myself too seriously.' Nevertheless, sitting down on an autumn afternoon to review the career of Liam Spratt is by no means a laugh a minute exercise– there is simply too much to pack in. The half hour allocated to the job proves hopelessly inadequate and by the end of an hour (or more) there is still no answer to the initial question – 'Liam, how should I describe you?' Salesman? Broadcaster? Sportsman? Entertainer? Yes, Spratt can be all of those, not to mention family man, comedian, entrepreneur.... and the list goes on, underlining that the cheeky chappy from Bree is capable of fitting more into a day than many another manages in a year. He admits that his tendency to fill every waking hour means that he often runs late, constantly playing catch up with an impossible schedule. 'I was always a multi-tasker. I thrive better under pressure,' he muses, making a virtue of dizzying busy-ness, between mouthfuls of the toasted sandwich he is eating on the run while making a few minutes for the 'Face to Face' interview. Searching for an explanation to explain this frenetic behaviour, he suggests that it stems in part from the fact that he never turns down an invitation to get involved in things, especially things in his home parish. These days, home is in Clonroche, just a stone's throw from the grounds of Cloughbawn G.A.A. club, but it was in Bree that he was reared, the oldest in a family of eight children. The advantage of being one of such a large brood was that there were enough players for hurling or football. Money was not plentiful in the household but there was always plenty of diversion. There was also a good education to be had at the hands of Kerryman Jonathan Moriarty, recalled as a hard task master but an inspirational teacher in the local national school. The master commanded respect, if only because he had the distinction of having played senior football, not only for the Kingdom, but also Dublin and Wexford. Such sporting prowess impressed young Liam more than the square on any hypotenuse. 'I wasn't really into education,' he confesses, offering his sympathy to the modern generation of teenagers tied to the tyranny of the points race. In his day, it was possible to leave school immediately after sitting the Intermediate (precursor of the Junior Cert) and still find a career – in his case with Quinnsworth. The supermarket chain took him on as a trainee manager and found they had a natural salesman on their hands. However, the job meant long hours and a great deal of switching around. Quinnsworth placed him in an assortment of Dublin stores (Stillorgan, Ranelagh, Baggot Street and Crumlin in turn) before finding him a niche in Waterford. It was there that he noticed an advert for a job with Wyeth, the giant medical company. They were looking for sales reps, so Liam raced up to Dublin in his yellow mini one evening after work in the supermarket to tell them how much they needed him: 'I sold myself,' he says recalling the successful interview. 'After all, I had been in retail.' Retailing for Wyeth meant peddling Bisodol, Anadin, cough bottles and cures for warts, all from the company car that replaced the yellow Mini. It was a job that kept him occupied for 28 years, most of the time spent covering the South East as it allowed him return to County Wexford. 'You have to be cut out for it. A salesman's life can be lonely and there is the pressure to meet targets,' he says, though not in any spirit of complaint. The plus side was that he had to meet people, and he cultivated the trick of the trade which dictates: 'you have to be expert on sport and politics – the great openers.' To keep himself up to speed with the great openers, he cultivated the habit of reading at least one national newspaper every day, plus whatever the local press served up. The habit is now ingrained. When it came to sport, he was also able to draw on a genuine love of playing and watching. Now into his late fifties, he is old enough to recall seeing the World Cup final of 1966 on television. He also remembers pedalling off with his brother john to Breen's field, where it was a privilege to rub shoulders with luminaries of the local Ballyhogue football (and just a little hurling) club. Cue to drop names such as Phil Wilson, Willie Foley and Denis Asple. Forty years on, the awe may still be detected in the voice. However, in keeping with his scatter-gun character, it was not enough to play just a mere couple of sports. Warren's of Bree had a grass tennis court, on which he would play into the pitch dark on summer night. When the court was occupied then there was always the chance of a game of croquet, a game that hides ruthless competition behind a veneer of gentility. And Spratt has always been competitive, with no understanding of how anyone can leave the field without giving of their utmost. He fitted in well, so, in that hotbed of rivalry which was the 'Tops of the Parish' scene in Bree at the time he was growing up. Little Liam was assigned to the cast of the Clonmore variety squad at the age of seven, sharpening his funny bone in humorous sketches, and learning how to use the stage as a platform for slagging people. From there he graduated to Macra na Feirme and the chance to move on from Bree Hall to the stage of the Gaiety Theatre or the Opera House in Cork. Peter Byrne directed the group to several All-Ireland victories. Peter's protégé with the Groucho Marx moustache was given the freedom to develop a hilarious double act with Hannah Whelan. Liam still recalls rolling in from Bree to perform with the Macra gang at a vast cavernous auditorium in Limerick: 'We arrived with our set twenty feet wide and the stage was as big as a football field!' In due course, he was recruited by Enniscorthy theatre group and the same competitive streak was well catered for on the thespian front. His first show at the Athenaeum was in Bernard Farrell's 'Canaries'. He also took particular satisfaction from playing Captain Boyle opposite Andy Doyle as Joxer and the late Mary Horgan as Juno in O'Casey's 'Juno and the Paycock'. The production mopped up on the drama festival circuit but Liam is still trying to work out why it only finished third in the All-Ireland. He also has a track record as a guitarist, the skill picked up young in association with Tom Carr and Jimmy Broaders in Bree He was known to appear in pubs as one half of a duo with Doris Kelly. So he was not without vocal experience when he was finally dragooned by Ray Quigley into Enniscorthy musical society. Ray let him loose in 'The Wizard of Oz' as the Scarecrow in the early nineties, and opened up a whole new world of entertaining for a man who admits to one great disability as a performer. 'My biggest problem is remembering lines. I have a hopeless memory,' confesses Liam Spratt. At least a commercial salesman had a tape deck in his company car, on which cassettes of scripts could be endless played and replayed. One suspects that he feels more at ease making up his own lines – a gift which puts radio commentary right up his alley. Liam is very, very vague about exactly how he found himself providing word pictures on matches for listeners in the early days of unlicensed radio. He does, however, remember being in the 'studio' of a pirate station one afternoon when the proprietor arrived in mid-programme to grab hold of whatever equipment he could and skedaddle before the authorities arrived. He also has a vivid recollection of how he was given the beck to come into legitimate broadcasting. He was sitting in his car outside the post office in Enniscorthy when Eamonn Buttle knocked on the window to sound him out for a role with South East Radio. Within ten days he was on air, doing the job that has made him a household name across the county for the past two decades. Talk about duck to water! He has revelled in the opportunity to promote Wexford sport on the airwaves. The high point, of course, was the successful hurling campaign of 1996. He waxes sentimental about crying shoulder to shoulder with team manager Liam Griffin as the opentopped bus that bore the champions out of Gorey back home with the McCarthy Cup. The job has also opened up chances to meet super stars whom others must worship from afar – Terry Wogan, David Beckham, Greg Norman and the great Seán Kelly. Liam really is a living, breathing fan with a microphone, hanging around the dressing rooms as well as painting his word pictures up in the press gallery. The enthusiasm is endless. Weekends are devoted to sport, thanks to the understanding support of wife Jane (nee Flood). He suggests that being a part-timer at the mike helps to give his radio persona a certain freshness. While once weekdays were taken up with selling Bisodol, he now has his own successful clothes embroidery business since taking a settlement from Wyeth four years ago... The sandwich is long since eaten but here are a few more titbits from the Spratt file. As a member of Enniscorthy rugby club, he played on every team from firsts down to fourths. He appeared in soccer with St. Carthage's of Courtnacuddy, Wexford Bohs and Bree United. He also turned out as a cricketer for Merrion C.C. – the club that also produced Test player Ed Joyce. Both daughter Aoife and son Cathal are described as fellow sports and music nuts. 'I can't take myself too seriously,' he insists. 
