sport football
{ Emma Gallagher 
    June 16 2017 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/sport/soccer/yeats-girls-ready-for-italian-tournament-35809227.html }
At an evening training session in Oxfield, the excitement was palpable among the tight-knit group of the Yeats Utd U16 girls. And with only a few short weeks until the team and coaches jet of to Italy for a major underage tournament, it's understandable why . This is the fourth time a group from the North Sligo club are heading to the hot climes of Italy to compete in the San Marino Cup, facing teams from the likes of Brazil, Peru, Norway and US academies too. It's no small feat for the 19 players heading over and they are the only Irish group going to compete in their level. Only three players remain from the last panel who made the trek two years ago in 2015, so for the majority of the girls, this is their first time getting a taste of what it's like to compete on the world stage. And in such a football-mad country as Italy, they are bound to be in their element. Coaches Brian Chambers (picturedinset) and Enda Scanlon were both leading the training session last Thursday evening in a busy Oxfield Park. Brian has been at the helm since the first group of Yeats girls went to San Marino back in 2011 so he is well familiar with the tournament and the level of opponents they will be facing. For Enda, who featured with Sligo Rovers for many years, it goes without saying that he's big into football and two of his daughters, Eve (16) and Keela (13) are also on the team heading to Italy. Brian says it's a great honour for a club the size of Yeats to compete in Italy against the likes of US-based academies. "The team is young, we have from 13-year-olds up to 17. "The competition allows for teams to have three overage players on the panel, that's the way they run the tournament. "This is our fourth time going over, having been first of all in 2011, then also in 2013 and lastly in 2015." A little bit of sharp research on the internet was how it all came about initially. "We were at first looking at going over to a tournament in Scotland back in 2011. "When costing it out, it was costing roughly £400 for each player which was quite expensive. "So instead we went on the internet and saw the San Marino tournament in Italy. "It didn't cost more so I contacted the guy over there and that's how it all began." Located along the east coast of Italy, San Marino is a hotbed for football with countries from all across the globe coming to play. Brian adds: "It is a big tournament with 18 countries bringing different teams. "It's for boys and girls at various age categories. "There are a lot of US academies involved and teams also go from Brazil, Peru,Morocco, Algeria, Norway and Finland to name but a few. "We are the only Irish team, Castlebar Town went over the last time we were there." It's a small enough squad making the journey from North Sligo along with coaches and parents. "Numbers-wise, we have 19 players going, in total there are 35 of us. "Back in 2015, we got out of our group stage and we actually beat Castlebar to make it to the next round where we met a team from Finland who knocked us out," the coach recalls. It isn't solely about the football competition either, Brian says, "It's good meeting up with the other teams and it's a brilliant social week. "We have three players who went over the last time still involved. The three - Sinead Regan, Kate Keyes and Yasmin Connolly are good mentors for the younger players coming through too, Brian says: "This is Sinead's third tournament in Italy. She was vice-captain the last time and will be Captain this time around, although she doesn't know that yet!". The coach explains the group of players are from North Sligo and a few are further afield. "We have players from all over North Sligo and we also have a Manorhamilton girl and a Carrick-on-Shannon player. "There are a few from town, Rosses Point and Drumcliffe as well." Saying they competed with some of the best in the world is a big privilege for the Yeats Utd girls. "It's a great thing for them. Being an international tournament, there's quite a good number of great footballing sides there. "The US academies are very good and the Italians are extremely good too so for a small club like ourselves in the Northwest of Ireland meeting footballers from all over the world, it's great in that context. "The girls are like a family and they all love football. It is a busy," Brian laughs. He says when his daughter was playing he was 'dragged' into coaching. Although after many seasons, he's excelled in the role and earns lots of praise from his players. With the summer in full flow in Italy, temperatures are quite higher than at home. "The matches are 30 minutes each and the girls have to get used to the hot conditions over there. It can be in the 30s for a lot of the games. I remember the last time it was 37 degrees on the astro for one match. It was severely hot, but we managed to win that game." In terms of their opponents in this year's group, they won't discover who they are until the end of June. The camaraderie from meeting the same people during the tournaments is another positive Brian says. "You meet people who you bump into again, especially from the academy sides and a lot of the Irish and Scottish coaches who are with academies over in the US. "Aside from their upcoming tournament abroad, the Yeats girls are also in training for the Gaynor Cup which takes place just before Italy. We have six U16s and a couple of U14s going to that too. People are wishing us well ahead of the San Marino Cup and the reaction has been great locally. I must give a mention to the parents for their support and paying the costs too," the coach adds. Sinead Regan (16) from Rathcormac has been to three of the four Italian tournaments and her face said it all when Brian told her she was being named as Captain for the upcoming tournament. "I'm shocked and honoured," she said. "I was vice-captain at the last one. It was really good and we enjoyed it as a group. Playing football in the heat was tough, we found it difficult at the start but you get used to it," the midfielder explained. "Another thing was playing teams from a kind of higher level and I found we progressed and got better. We bonded more as a team," Sinead said. The Ursuline College TY students is a sports fanatic, like all of her teammates, and she also plays Gaelic with Drumcliffe/Rosses Point and this is her first year with Sligo Ladies. "I suppose the older girls like myself help the younger ones. I want to thank Brian too, he's been brilliant and put a lot of work into this, without him it wouldn't be possible. It's an honour to be Captain at this tournament," Sinead added. Another player looking forward to the San Marino Cup is Eimear Colreavy from Cliffoney. "Both my parents played and my dad, Kevin, is a big Chelsea and Sligo Rovers fan so that rubbed off on me! My older brother also plays with Cliffoney so football is a big thing in our house. We're a sports-mad family," the central midfielder said. "This will be my first time at the San Marino Cup and I'm so excited. It's scary thinking of playing in that heat but once we're over there, we will get into it. "The whole bunch of girls are so close, it's a holiday with friends. Playing the likes of teams from academies in the US is scary enough but at the same time I'm really looking forward to it. "My family is delighted I'm going over and to say I've played in an Italian tournament will be special and give a bit of self confidence to us. "We are such a close knit group and with Brian, it's all about the participation more so than anything." Eimear is busy not only with football, but also plays Gaelic for Drumcliffe/Rosses Point and rugby for her school in Bundoran. "I'm hoping to keep sport up after school too, it's important. You see girls here at training this evening and they are currently doing their Junior Cert as well," One of the younger members of the Yeats team is 13-year-old Keela Scanlon from Ballincar, daughter of coach Enda and younger sister to Eve, 16, who is also travelling for the tournament. "This is my first trip to Italy and I am really looking forward to it. "I've always been big into sport and football is my favourite. "My dad was an inspiration to me he's big into football and he used to play with Rovers." Keela admires what international stars Messi and Neymar have achived too. "I like both of them because they are just really good footballers. They know what to do with the ball." The sports-mad teenager also plays hockey with her school in the Ursuline College and Gaelic with Drumcliffe/Rosses Point. She said it's scary enough playing against top teams in Italy, but reckons Yeats are ready. "I suppose in a way it's daunting but we have been well trained. "I will definitely continue playing sport after I finish school, I think I would like to get into fitness coaching. "Sport is so important, it keeps you interested and with something to do in your spare time. "I've made lots of friends too through sport as well," Keela added. Keela's dad Enda said it's a brilliant tournament offering young players a great opportunity to play on the world stage. "The San Marino Cup really is a great opportunity for these players. I've been a coach with the team for about five years, when my daughter, Eve, was playing. "The underage structure with Yeats is really good and solid. "There are teams at U12, 14, 16 and 18 levels. "Going to the San Marino Cup is the icing on the cake for everyone, competing at the top level every year and being the first girls team out of Sligo to go. "Before that, you would hear of the boys teams going to different tournaments and the girls never got the chance." Enda said the quality of the teams in the San Marino Cup are top-class. "These teams that we will be playing are serious outfits. "You never know who is watching, there are lots of scouts at tournaments like these looking for girls for scholarships in Universities," Enda said. Everyone in Yeats Utd are in jovial mood ahead of the Italian trip and Enda added being a week-long event, it's something special. "There are 1,000 girls and 1,000 boys going to compete. Before the tournament on the Monday night, there is an opening ceremony planned with all two thousand players involved. "There is a real World Cup feel to it and they love going on this trip." Eve is also looking forward to San Marino and has been playing football since she was in 6th class. "I wasn't on any of the other trips and I cannot wait. "We're all like a little family and get along really well. "I'm worried about the heat but we'll have to work at getting used to it. It's a great opportunity for us all and a trip of a lifetime." Sligo Champion 
