sport football
{  
    December 22 2018 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/sport/other-sports/club-call-37633948.html }
Athletics - Lusk It was wet and windy on Saturday for the National Uneven Age Championships, but even though underfoot conditions were wet the course was in good condition for cross-country running. Padraig Ryan (U-13 Boys), in his first National Championships at Navan Racecourse, had a great race and did not look out of place, finishing in 69th position, and the experience will stand to him in future years.  Daniel O'Brien (U-17s) had a tough race and the pace was set from the gun with an uphill start. Daniel finished in 57th position with a brilliant 5k time of 18:31 on a course that was not for the faint-hearted. Congratulations to both lads on a great achievement.  Over the last couple of months, our Juvenile athletes have demonstrated their commitment to themselves, their families and their club. As the Juvenile cross-country season comes to an end, it is time to recognise our athletes. Well done and congratulations.  The challenge is put down for our masters (Over-35s) women and men to now go out on Sunday January 6th and take on the Dublin Masters Cross-Country in St Anne's Park, Raheny.  Congratulations and thanks to Eamon McBride, Nicole, Grace, Hannah, Lisa, Elizabeth, Veronica and Eamon Caffrey who all gave up their time to complete the Cardiac First Response training for the club.  We are delighted to support our local St Vincent de Paul as the chosen charity for our St Stephen's Day charity 5k fun run and walk. It starts at noon from the car park on Rathmore Road beside the soccer club. Dogs, buggies, scooters, dolls' prams and bikes are all welcome to take part. Donations will be gratefully accepted on the day for our charity. All funds raised will go to families in Lusk.  Only Stephen Murtagh managed to complete a parkrun on Saturday. His time of 20:12 at Malahide was impressive considering the wet and windy conditions. A few other club athletes ventured out to the Donabate parkrun to run or volunteer. Unfortunately, within a few seconds of the start the event was brought to an abrupt halt when the park ranger relayed instructions that the park was to be closed due to the severe weather conditions. Well done to all for attempting it.  Sunday saw an improvement in the weather and a sizeable contingent from Lusk travelled to Rush for the 2k junior parkrun. Max Lara was third across the line and there were PBs for Sean Ferguson, Conor Reinhardt, Eoin Reinhardt and Reuben Nolan. Congratulations to all.  The Lusk AC parkrun challenge now has two weeks remaining. Nicole Hodson still leads the 5k Ardgillan one with an improvement of 2min 35sec. Conor Reinhardt has extended his lead in the Rush challenge with a 3min 54min improvement. Results: Malahide - Stephen Murtagh 20:12. Rush junior - Max Lara 8:23 3rd place, Sean Ferguson 9:38 PB, Oscar Nolan 11:21, Alexa Holland 11:22, Conor Reinhardt 12:59 PB, Eoin Reinhardt 13:51 PB, Daisy Lara Leonard 14:03, Reuben Nolan 14:38 PB, Rosie May Geraghty 15:21, Caleb Nolan 16:07. Volunteers: Thomas Lara, Sean Greensit, Catriona Halpin, Matthew Bush.  Our annual Christmas raffle draw will take place this Thursday at 8pm in the Parish Hall. All are welcome and a very limited amount of tickets are still available. There are more than 30 fabulous prizes up for grabs along with a number of spot prizes. Tickets are €5 each - or five for €20. All proceeds go directly to the club. Thank you for your ongoing support. In addition, on the night of the draw Colin White from the Irish Kidney Association will give a short talk on the IKA and donor cards. Donor cards will be available on the night.  All club memberships renewals and new membership applications are due from January 1st 2019. It is important that everyone training in our club is registered for insurance purposes. Please contact Colm, Nicole or Eamon McBride if other arrangements need to be made (this will be handled confidentially).  All members intending on taking part in the Dublin Masters Cross-Country, Nation Indoor League or National Combined Events Championship during January must be registered with Athletics Ireland before the competition. Please make arrangements with Colm, Nicole or Eamon McBride to ensure you are registered beforehand.  New Fit4Life sessions start on Tuesday January 15th at 7pm, but registration is open this week. Keep an eye on our Facebook page for more details. We would like to wish all our members a very Happy Christmas and successful New Year.   Fingallians  Hurling: The club is running a new initiative to re-use any hurling helmets and hurls that are lying around your home. Anybody wishing to donate gurls or helmets, drop them into the bar.  Lotto results: Last week's numbers were 5, 19, 20, 21, 28. and there were two winners - Sinead & Terry and James Harrington. This week's jackpot is €2.262 and it's the last lotto of the year.  Bingo: The last Bingo of the year will be held this Tuesday. Thank you to all our helpers who make sure it runs very smoothly and a big thank-you to all those who attend every Tuesday.  Juvenile Treasurer: Austin Hickey will take over as Juvenile Treasurer from January from Paul Webster.  Senior players: Well done to our Senior men's Division 1 keeper Ian O'Reilly and full forward Oisin Lynch who were chosen to represent the Dublin senior team for the game in  Navan in aid of the Sean Cox Fund. Well done also to all involved - it is always great to see the GAA family coming together to help.  Mentors night: The annual Mentors Shindig takes place this coming Saturday in the club bar. All mentors and helpers are invited to enjoy a night's celebration of another great year for our club. We're looking forward to seeing a big attendance. Tickets are available for the Annual Christmas draw on the night.  Ranganna Gaeilge: Comhgairdeas leo a chríochnóidh an cúrsa Gaeilge do fhoghlamoirí ar an Máirt beag seo. Súil againn gur bhain sibh taitneamh as agus go bhfillfidh sibh arís don sraith seo chugainn. Míle maith tuillte ag ár múinteoir Sorcha Ní Iomhair.  Irish Classes: Well done to all those who will finish the Beginner's Irish Classes this Tuesday. We hope you enjoyed it and that you will return for the next series. Thanks very much to our super teacher Sarah Howard. Grúpa Comhrá: Críochnóidh ár ngrúpa don Nollaig ar an gCéadaoin, 19ú Nollaig agus fillfimid ar an 9ú Eanáir, 2019 ag a 9 a chlog.  Irish Conversation Group: Our group will finish for the Christmas on Wednesday 19th December and will return on 9th January 2019 at 9 o'clock.  Camogie Level 1 Course: A level 1 Camogie course will be held in early January in a nearby club. Anybody interested, contact Anne Marie Brett.  Christmas parties: Various teams celebrated their end of year, with the U-11 Girls attending the Robin Hood Pants in The Helix, the U-15 camogie team going for a Chinese and a bit of ice skating after. The U-14 ladies football team and the U-13 camogie team opted for TGI Fridays - just some of the locations for end-of-year get-togethers. It's always great to do something off the pitch and celebrate a great year.  Ladies Player Conference: The Ladies Gaelic Football Association is delighted to host our first Adult Player Conference on Sunday January 13th in the National Indoor Arena on the Sports Campus in Abbotstown, Dublin. We recently conducted a player survey which received a huge response and we aim to address many of these topics through an educational, informative and inspirational day designed for adult female players (18+), both club and county. To book tickets for the event please go to https://www.eventbrite.ie. It is only €10 per person, including lunch. Places will be limited and we look forward to seeing many of our players there.  Mentors WhatsApp Group: We have created a WhatsApp group for mentors. The aim is to move information about teams quickly. We would ask that any important information about teams and events are sent in to the PRO so we can publicise them on our social media. Shop: Some orders still remain to be collected from the shop for Christmas. Orders can be collected from the bar any evening after 6pm.  Music: There will be music in the bar next Sunday night provided by Dave Cleary - from 7 to 10pm.   Fingal Ravens  Tickets are now available for the GAA National Club Draw. They're only €10 each and there are some great prizes. All money raised from our ticket sales go directly to Fingal Ravens. For tickets contact Ciaran Kiely on 086-1712286 - they would make ideal stocking fillers.  Fingal Ravens club membership for 2019 is now due and the easiest way to do this is online at https://fingalravens.ie/registrations/  Please note that our new membership fees include subs for the use of the Astro facility for 2019 and no further subs will be collected on training nights from January 2019. All payments must be made in full by January 1st 2019.  Our Children's Christmas Party, which was held in Kettles Hotel last Sunday week, was a great success. Thanks to Kettles Hotel for their hospitality, to DJ Pete and of course Santa - and to all those who helped out on the day.  The club agm and Juvenile agm will be held on Friday January 11th at 8pm in Kettles Hotel and all members are encouraged to attend. We would like to thank our club coach Paul Clarke for all the work he has done within the club over the last two years and wish him the best of luck in his new role with St Sylvester's.  All our club gear is now available online at www.oneills.com. Numbers drawn in the club lotto the week before last for a jackpot of €17,000 were 11, 20, 26 & 32 and the €20 prizes went to Ronan Norton, Stephen Madigan and Snowball Kinsella.   O'Dwyer's  O'Dwyer's are delighted to present Strictly O'Dwyer's in the CityNorth Hotel on Friday December 28th. Our wonderful dancers are polishing up their dancing shoes, have been paired up and training has commenced. Tickets are in high demand and are available from any of our dancers. Get them before they are gone! Buses will run from the clubhouse on the night, with the first bus departing at 5.30pm. It's €6 return/€5 one way. More details are available on our facebook page or our dedicated facebook page @Odwyersstrictlycomedancing.  November monthly draw winners: - €200 No 52 Damien Richardson, €100 No 110 Jennifer Pyne, €50 No 22 Oliver McNulty, €50 No 98 Eric Delahan, €50 No 7 Michael Chase. There will be a New Year's Eve Party in the clubhouse from 9.30pm, with music by Stage Two.  Bingo is on Wednesdays from 8.45pm.  Numbers drawn in the club lotto last week were 11, 15, 22 and the jackpot for the draw last night (Monday) stood at €1,470.   We wish all of our members and friends a very happy Christmas and peaceful New Year!   St Maur's  Our Minor camogie team played in the championship semi-final, only losing out by the narrowest of margins - 4-3 to 2-10 - against St Peregrines. It's been a great year for camogie and many of the girls have adult league medals won already. Great credit to all involved in a historic season.  The club is now in full Christmas draw mode. Look out for club volunteers on the next two weekends selling tickets around the town. Please get your tickets back to the club early this year. Every ticket sold is going into our 3G facility. This is for our youth, will be used by our schools and is an investment i sport sorely needed in Rush.  Congratulations to Megan Benson who has been selected for the 2019 Dublin Minor camogie panel. Well done Megan and the best of luck. The club is looking for volunteers to manage the minor footballers and second team footballers in 2019. If you would like to get involved, or even feel you have suggestions that might be useful in finding a candidate, please convey this to a member of the Adult Games Committee.  Huge congratulations to all of our participants who completed the foundation award this past Saturday.  It gives us great pleasure to announce that we will be hosting an Award 1 child coaching course in early January to prepare the club for the 2019 season. Dates:  Friday January 4th, 7pm - 9.30pm; Saturday January 5th, 10am-4pm; Friday January 11th, 7pm - 9.30pm; Saturday January 12th, 10am - 4pm. Modules include, technical proficiency, physical fitness, tactical awareness and team play and to book your spot please text Vinny (GPO) on 086-0709084 by tomorrow (Wednesday). There will be no admissions to the course after this date. Candidates must have previously completed foundation award, Code of ethics and Garda vetting.  Numbers drawn in Sunday's lotto were 5, 7, 14, 19 and the €50 prizes went to Mark Power, Paddy Halligan, Aiden Reilly, Tommy McGee, Elizabeth McDonnell and Declan Conroy. Next weekend's jackpot will be €10,250.   Skerries Harps  Congrats to our Minor camogie team on winning the B Championship Shield against Naomh Brid.  Hard luck to our U-21 footballers who lost out in the B Championship Final to Clontarf by the narrowest of margins. Competitive action for 2018 is now brought to a close. Many thanks to all players and mentors across the adult and juvenile sections of the club for their effort, commitment and hard work during the year.  Well done to Hannah McGinnis who played with the Dublin U-13 development squad against Tipperary, and to Ben Jones who played on the Dublin U-15 football team who won the Damien Reid Trophy recently. Juvenile & Adult Games weekly meetings are now on a Christmas break. See you all in the new year.  Zingo result for the weekend before last: 3-1-4-6-2-5-7. We had no winners of the jackpot, but congrats to the €100 dividend winner Eddie Fynes. How do you win? You buy a ticket! You can also play online at skerriesharps.ie and follow the links. Entries cost only €2 each or three for €5.  The club shop stocks a range of Masita clubwear - hoodies, half-zips, skinny bottoms, club T-shirts, rainwear, shorts, socks, gumshields, bobble hats, gloves, footballs and sliotars. Pop in and have a look. There's a December special on windbreakers - adult now €20, kids €15. The Skerries Harps Annual Christmas Tree Collection in aid of our 2019 Feile boys and girls teams will take place again this year. Tags are available from the following locations when you purchase your tree: Skerries Hardware & Pet Centre, Michael Connolly at Bus Bar Corner and Billy Flood Skerries Christmas Trees opposite Gerrys. Tags also available in the club shop. For only €5 have your tree collected and disposed of on January 6th January. All support is appreciated. Diary dates: Fri Dec 21st - Annual Christmas Draw and music in the clubhouse. Tickets are €5 and available from Fergal, Joanne, Chris, Denise, Catherine, Lyn, any committee member or the clubhouse bar.  Wed Dec 26th - Annual Charity Matches take place on St Stephen's Day - more details to follow. Fri Dec 28th - Annual Golf Outing in aid of SVdP. timesheet open from 9.30am to noon. Presentation and meal at 8pm in the Harps clubhouse. Contact Paul at 085-1740474 for details.  The clubhouse is available for functions/parties. Contact Pat on 087-2505479 for details, or email bookings.skerriesharps@gmail.  The club extends its deepest sympathy to Eileen and the extended McGinnis and Lynch families on the recent sad passing of Eileen's father Matthew Lynch RIP.    Starlights  Numbers drawn in last Saturday's lotto were 16, 17, 22, 23 and the four lucky dip winners of €25 were BEAM (c/o Marie), Larry Finnegan (c/o Kay) and Guys & Dolls and Margaret Kane (both c/o Noel). This week's jackpot stands at €1,400.  Our Little Stars training is taking break until after Christmas and will continue in January on Saturday mornings with our fully qualified trainer. The venue will be Gaelscoil Cholmcille, Coolock Lane, from 10.45 to 11.45am for boys and girls aged four and up. There is no annual fee - pay as you go for only €2. For more information contact juvenile officer Anne-Marie McAllister on 086-3523690 or Mark Hughes on 089-4084553.  We are currently on the lookout for any new players interested in playing Junior football. If interested you can contact Bernie Reardon on 087-6640801 or George McAllister on 086-8371818.  We are delighted to announce that we have secured the Hill Farm site in Turnapin from Fingal County Council and the plan is to develop this into our clubhouse and training facilities. We will keep you updated as things progress. Thank you to all those who attended our agm last Thursday.  We would like to welcome our new committee members and look forward to working with them over the next year.   Our Christmas Draw will take place this Thursday night in the Coachmans Inn. Can we please make sure all tickets are returned in time. They can be given to any club member. Our club's Christmas social night will take place on the same night.     Balbriggan  Sunday's men's white nine-hole singles stableford winners: Front nine - Div 1 Charlie Guildea (11) 19pts, Div 2 Michael Power (13) 21pts, Div 3 Liam Prout (17) 19pts; Back nine - Div 1 Gary O'Hanlon (7) 19pts, Div 2 Pat O'Brien (13) 20pts, Div 3 Sean McCormack (19) 18pts. Result from last week's Men's Senior Open Stableford: Age 50-64 winner Ger O'Donoghue (11) 27pts; Age 65+ winner Martin Doolin (21) 31pts, 2nd Ivon Keeling (21) 27pts. December 9th ladies competition: 1st Veronica Hamilton (25) 19pts, 2nd Anna Hannon (23) 18pts, 3rd Esther McConnell (19) 17pts. December 8th ladies competition: 1st Nicola Campbell (9) 19pts, 2nd Helen Tarrant (21) 17pts.   Donabate  Sunday's gents 12-hole singles stableford: 1st Gary Mulhall (12) 28pts ocb, 2nd Brian Ennis 11 (-2) 28pts. Saturday's gents 12-hole singles stableford: 1st David Mulligan 23 (-2) 23pts.   Hollywood Lakes  Six-handicapper Damien Harold won last Tuesday's Men's Senior Open 12-hole competition with 30 points.   Ballyboughal There were no games last weekend because of the inclement weather and the course is closed now for the Christmas period and will reopen on Sunday Jauary 20th. A very happy Christmas to all the members and a peaceful new year. For more info on the club check our website at ballyboughalpitchandputt.com. This year's Carol Service in Ballyboughal takes place on Wednesday at 8pm. Fingal Independent 
