sport football
{  
    August 02 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27360096.html }
Sympathy: An Ríocht Athletic Club would like to extend their sympathy to the Shine family on their recent sad bereavement. County Track and field Championships: Well done to all those who competed at the County track and field championships last weekend. A special congratulation goes to Maura Halpin who won the women‚s long jump. Dublin International: Well done to Laura Crowe who ran a fine race to finish 3rd at the Dublin International last Saturday. Lotto: The monthly lotto will take place this Friday 4th August at the Poet‚s Inn, Castleisland. The jackpot this month is ?6,300. Tickets are available from reception or club members. National League: The second round of the national league will take place in Cork on the 6th August. For details contact 087-7995647. Annascaul WHIST: Results from Wednesday 26th July. LADIES: 1st Eileen Galvin 2nd tie Nora Devine and Bridie Lyne. INTERVALS: 1st Hannah Hanafin 2nd Joan Forde GENTS: tie 1st Martin Courtney and John Mc Enery. INTERVALS: 1st Jerry Curran 2nd Mickey Murphy MYSTERY: John Forde and Bríd Baker. RAFFLE: Frances Falvey, Jerry Curran(twice) and Martin Murphy. A great interest has been expressed in the free classes starting in September-there will only be 24places available so early booking would be advisable. DEATH: It is with deep regret that we report the untimely death of Sharon Clavel (nee O' Rourke) at the early age of 36. The daughter of Timmy and Celia O' Rourke of Ballintaggart Sharon had been living with her husband Herb in New York and was due to act as chief bridesmaid at her sister Noreen's wedding on 19th August. It is very hard to come to terms with such a tragedy and we can only offer our prayers and sympathies to her family. WEDDING: The marriage took place on Friday 28th of Karen Sayers, daughter of Joe and Joan, West Inch, to Brian Heffernan from Tipperary. Best wishes and congratulations to the happy couple. MASS: The annual cemetery mass will take place in Ballinacourty Cemetery on Tuesday 8th August, weather permitting. Ardfert ST BRENDAN'S AC: Congratulations to Stephen Walsh of Moanbridge Ardfert, who finished a fantastic third place in the Swiss Alpine Marathon last weekend. The race was 42k long and in places reached a very high altitude. Stephen competed in the over thirty section. There was a huge entry in the race with over 500 competitors. Thanks to all those who contributed to our recent church gate collection and all the volenteers who helped with the collection. CONGRATS - Congratulations to Club stalwart Stephen Wallace on winning an All-Ireland Junior medal with Kerry, last Sunday in Ennis. Stephen capped a tremendous performance scoring the all important goal. Our 'B' team won their Co. League final with a 2-16 to 1-14 victory over Ballymac after extra time. Damien Wallace scored a first half goal and we led 1-6 to 0-6. Ballymac had a good second half and the sides finished level at 1-10 each at the end of full time. In the first period of extra time, we scored 1-3 without reply, the goal coming from Darren Wallace, the second half of extra time we held out comfortably in the end. Noel Clifford, in his victory speech, thanked all the supporters and sponsors of the Jerseys, togs and socks. Successful managers were Mike Fitzgerald and Johnny Stack. Ardfert Community Centre; Summer Camp resumes this week for 8-12 year olds. Lots of fun and games planned. The children’s hours 5-7pm last week during the Ardfert Festival were a great success and lots of painting and activities took place. All the children that took part enjoyed their time and thanks to the tutors involved. Some of the children’s paintings are on display in the Community Centre. Congratulations also to all the young people that took part in the street busking competition on Friday night with traditional tunes in conjunction with Comhaltas and the Ardfert Summer Festival. The Indoor Market continues every Sunday from 11-2p.m with a variety of fresh vegetables, plants, apple & rhubarb tarts, scones, brown bread, jam, beetroot, photographs, pictures, bric-a-brac, etc. now available. The second hand book sale runs in conjunction with the Market. Proceeds from the book sale go to various charities and especially our chosen charity Kerry Parents & Friends, Listowel Branch. Tables need to be booked in advance, especially for the summer as the Market gets very busy. The Co. Kerry mobile library will visit the Community Centre and Ardfert N.S every second Tuesday. Posters with the times of the library visit are on display at the Community Centre, and all are welcome to come and browse the great selection of books on offer. Locals and visitors welcome to Bingo every Monday night beginning at 9pm. Gym hours 10-2pm and 5-9pm Monday-Friday, with earlier closing of 8pm on Fridays. Laundry is open 9-1.30pm Monday-Friday and an ironing service is also now available. For enquiries for any of the services please call to the Community Centre or contact 7134066/7134067. St. Brendan’s Hurling Club; The stars this week are the Kerry U-16 and minor hurlers, who travelled to Claughaun in Limerick on Sunday to compete in the All-Ireland B Competitions. The Kerry minors had a tough battle for the hour against a very determined Westmeath. Down five points at half time they had to put in a supreme effort to claw back level and eventually went ahead, and strong defending near the finish saw them hold out for victory and crowned All-Ireland B Champions on a score of 1-9 to 0-10. The Captain is Tim Hannafin of St. Brendan’s who accepted the cup from Vice-Chairman of the Munster Council and in his victory speech expressed the Kerry team’s condolences to the Westmeath players on the tragic drowning of one of the U-16 players recently. Darren Delaney in goals kept a clean sheet while Alan Kelly Tim Hannafin and sub Rory Horgan also played their part in this victory. We also had back up in the subs with John Galvin, Paul Culloty and injured Thomas Moloney. Scorers were James Flaherty Lixnaw 1-3, Tim Hannafin St. Brendan’s 0-4(2f), and Edward Fitzgerald Kilmoyley 0-2. The Kerry team were back in Ardfert in time to join in the Summer Festival parade and were very well received. Congratulations to players, mentors and supporters who travelled to Claughaun. The U-16’s easily defeated Westmeath 3-7 to 0-5 in the quarter final of the All-Ireland B series. St. Brendan’s had Brian Egan Carrahane, and Stephen Leen Walnut Grove playing, with Justin Horgan, Ardfert one of the subs used. They now face Meath in the semi-final, date and venue to be decided. St. Brendan’s senior team had a victory last week over Crotta 0-16 to 1-8 in the North Kerry Senior B final. The game was played in Ardfert and there was a good attendance. St. Brendan’s held out and scored some good points along the way. Captain Sean Flaherty accepted the cup from Chairman of the North Kerry Hurling Board Tom Lawlor . Team and scorers Danny Leen, Alan Kelly, Owen McCarthy, Denis Moriarty, Gerry Wallace 0-1, Eamon Corridon, Keith Dineen, Patrick Donegan, Francis Wallace, Conor Flaherty 0-2, Darren Dineen 0-3, John Egan 0-3, David Clifford 0-1, Sean Flaherty 0-1, Tim Hannafin 0-4f. Subs; Alan Dineen 0-1for F. Wallace, Maurice Kearney for O. McCarthy (inj), Jonathon Best for P.Donegan, Billy O’Connell for D. Clifford. Congratulations to the players, trainer Pat Dowling, selectors Gerard Hannafin, Mike Dunne, and Eoin Lawlor, and all involved. The seniors also achieved another two points in Div. 1 of the Co. League over Crotta, but lost to Lixnaw on Saturday night on a score 3-10 to 1-14. The Div. 3 team also added another two points to their tally in a victory over an under strength Austin Stacks 3-14 to 1-6. Darren Sinnott led the scores with a personal tally of 3-4 to his credit. An away game this Wednesday to Kilgarvan at 7.30pm finishes the league and St. Brendan’s have an unbeaten record at the moment. The U-15’s went out of the Co. Championship with a defeat from Causeway . Please contact Niall Horgan, Gerard Hussey, or Gerard Hannafin for details of times and venues of juvenile games. Our opponents in the quarter–final of the Co. Senior Hurling Championship will be Abbeydorney and the game is fixed for Saturday August 12th at 7.30pm in Austin Stack Park, Tralee. Lots of support will be vital on the night. The Intermediate team will play Lady’s Walk on Tuesday 15th. VHI/Cúl Summer Hurling Camp took place all last week in Ardfert and over 50 young boys and girls attended. All who attended received a jersey, togs, socks, water bottle and a rucksack, and had an enjoyable week. Congratulations to Stephen Wallace and the Kerry Junior footballers on their All Ireland win. CILLARD CAMOGIE CLUB: Training for the girls will take place on Wednesday evening between 7 and 8pm at Lerrig. Congratulations to the U-16’s who won the camogie game against Abbeylix in Ardfert on Friday evening last. Abbeydorney G.A.A. Our junior team defeated Kilgarvan in the Co.League played in Kilgarvan on Thursday evening last Score 4-10 to 2-14. Team and scorers S.Cronin, M.Leahy, G.Maunsell, B.Quane,, F.Roche, D.Lawlor 0-1, J.MFitzgerald, M.O'Callaghasn 0-2 D.Fahey, D.Doyle 1-3 T.Rice 1-1 C.O'Brien 1-0 P.Dineen, T.O'Connell 1-2 B.Maunsell 0-1 U-15 Our U-15 team was well beaten by Kilmoyley in the Co. Championship pllayed in O'Dorney on Tuesday evening last. Kerry Minors Congratulations and well done to the Kerry Minor Team on winning the All Ireland "B" Final by defeating Westmeath in Claughaun Limerick on Sunday last Score 1-8 to 0-9, The club was represented by N.Roche and B.O'Leary. Kerry U-16's The club was represented by P.J.Keane and D.O'Connell on the Kerry U-16 team that defeated Westmeath in the All Ireland "B" quarter final also played in Claughaun on Sunday last Score 3-7 to 0-5. Mass: Mass for deceased members of the club on this Saturday August 5th at 7.30 p.m. Fixtures: Div 3 Co. League v Austin Stacks on this Wednesday Aug 2nd at 8 p.m. away U-16 Co. League v Kilmoyley on this Saturday Aug 5th at 4.30 p.m. away U-14 North Kerrry Championship v Kilmolyley on this Thursday Aug 3rd at 6.30 p.m. home. Retired; An outing for the Active Retired Group will take place on Wed Aug 2nd to Kilkee, Co. Clare. Coach leaving Community Centre at 11 a.m. Congratulations: To Fr. Tom O'Connell Lissereen who is a priest in the Diocese of Sale, Austrialia on the occasion of his Golden Jubilee. We wish him many more years of health and happiness in his ministry McElligott's Bar: The weekly winner of Poker Classic on Wednesday night was Ned McElligott, Sun night Eileen Flaherty, Winners of the 41 Card Drive on Sat night were Danny Slattery/Brian Kearney. Ladies Football : Abbeydorney-Ballyduff were defeated by Southern Gaels in the Co. Senior League Final played in Killorglin last Sunday afternoon on a scoreline of 3-10 to 4-11. Abbeydorney-Ballyduff will play the 1st round of the Co. Senior C’Ship, this coming Saturday in Abbeydorney at 7.00pm. Camogie:Abbeylix Camogie club would like to congratulate their U14/U16 team who fought a great battle against a very strong Cillard side in the Ardfert summer festival Camogie event on Friday night last.Even thought we were defeated our girls improved immensley from there last outing. A number of the team traveled to Ardfert on Sunday to collect there second place prize.The team are as follows; Mary Moulneaux,Tara O' Sullivan, Megan Sheehan, Siobhan Diggins, Orla O' Mahony, Erin Sheehan, Jennifar Conway, Emalda Hanley, Orla Thorton, Jacinta Mcarthy, Sharon Mcmahon, Edwina Ryall, Gemma Ryall, Mary O'Keeffe, Rachael Sheehy, Rebecca Moulneaux, Catherine Rahilly, Phillipa Donnelly, Sharon Lyne, Stephine Saines, Aisling Leahy, Clodagh Sheehan and Ciara Maunsell. Abbeydorney Parish Hall & Community Centre Building Fund. Members Lotto Draw. Results 30 / 7 / 2006. Numbers Drawn. 13 - 20 - 23 - 27 No Jackpot Winner. Consolation Prizes ?25 - Siobhain Clifford, Abbeydorney. ?25 - Siobhain Clifford, Abbeydorney. Spot Prizes Paul O'Dowd, Currovough. Joanne Hayes, Abbeydorney. Names for ?500 Mini Jackpot. Robery Sheehy, Abbeydorney. Jonathan Healy, Ahamore. Sonny Lawlor, Boheroe. Next Draw Sunday - 6th August - McElligotts Bar - Jackpot ?9100. Abbeydorney Ploughing Society Ploughing DVD A Photo Album DVD of the 2005 Abbeydorney Ploughing Match, is now available at ?20 per copy. Running time of the DVD is 55 minutes, it contains 300 pictures with music and song by local musicians. Also included in the DVD are pictures from other years, American NTSC DVD's are also available. St. Bernards Utd. Thursday 10th Aug the AGM of our local soccer club will take palce at 9.30 p.m. in the Parish Hall. all interested are asked to attend. We will be entering U-11 and U-12 teams.Anybody interested in been part of these teams please contact Sandy 087 2741601 or Paddy 087 9486730. Anyone interested in starting up other age groups or helping in any way. Please contact Sandy or Paddy. CAMOGIE - Abbeydorney pitch was the place to be on Sunday last, July 30th when over 100 girls , the Kerry Camogie stars of the future, took to the field in a blitz organised by Abbeylix (Abbeydorney/Lixnaw) Club. Clubs participating were Abbeylix, Cillard(Ardfert/Kilmoyley), Causeway and Laune Rangers. This was the third blitz held in recent months, Causeway and Cillard having hosted the previous two. The clubs were formed in February and March of this year following on the “Camogie for the Kingdom” initiative , held in Causeway in January. Over the last six months the improvement in the skills of the girls has become very noticeable. On Sunday games were played at U-8, U-10, and U-12 level and the emphasis was on fun rather than winning. Great enjoyment was had by all the players, parents, trainers and club officials and despite the odd shower of rain , the day passed off without incident from 12 to 4pm. We wish to thank all those who helped out on Sunday and a special word of thanks to Bill Maunsell and his staff for providing us with the facilities of the clubhouse. If any girl is interested in playing Camogie, the clubs meet at the following times and venues: Abbeydorney/Lixnaw(Abbeylix): Monday 7to 8pm at Lixnaw pitch (U-8, U-10, U-12, U-14, U-16) Wednesday 7-8pm at Lixnaw pitch for U-12 upwards. Contact: Maureen Spillane at 087 1253680 Ardfert/Kilmoyley(Cillard): Wednesday 7-8pm at Kilmoyley Sports Field Contact :Nora Mai O’Mahony at 087 7697225 Causeway: Wednesday 6 to 7pm and Saturday 11-12pm at Causeway Sports Field Contact: Mary Jo Murphy at 086 6005752 If you need to know more about Camogie, the official website www.camogie.ie is very informative Abbeyfeale The fine weather over the past couple of months has seen an increase in the number of people walking the Great Southern Trail along the path of the old railway line. The recent development of the stretch from Abbeyfeale to Devon Road has proved a great addition and many people are now using the amenity on a regular basis. Access to Barnagh Tunnel has also been provided from the lay-by at Barnagh, and it is proposed to erect signage at the entrance to the tunnel giving information on the flora and fauna of the area. This should prove a great attraction for tourists as well as for local people. MISSION - Fr Michael Lenihan has returned to his missionary work in Honduras following a short holiday break with family and friends. STAR - The You‚re A Star competition held at Fr Casey‚s GAA Club last week was an outstanding success and the organizers would like to thank everyone for their generous support. In all, twelve acts took part and between them they raised a sum of E10,661 which will be shared between the Friends of St Luke‚s Hospital, Dublin and the Touch of Love project in Limerick. The winners were The Westenders group consisting of Dawn, Tanya and Caroline Brosnan from Mountcollins with a total of 2,664 votes, and they immediately handed back their E500 prize money to be included in the charities. They were sponsored by Pat and Phyllis Harnett. Abbey Heritage Project finished second. CENSUS - Figures released by the Central Statistics Office reveal that the population in the town of Abbeyfeale has increased by just over 10% to 2,494 in the past six years. GOLF - The President‚s Prize (Maurice O‚Riordan) was well supported at Abbeyfealr Golf Club and the results were; 1st Conleth Dillon (15) 43pts. 2nd Hayden Gilbert (17) 39 pts. 3rd Mike Brosnahan (13) 39 pts. Front 9, Paddy Lane (18) 22. Back 9, Declan Murphy (18) 18 pts. Nearest to pin - Donal de Barra. Longest Drive - Thomas O‚Hanlon. MAN UTD - The Abbeyfeale & District Manchester Utd Supporters Club AGM will now take place at Donal & Ann‚s bar, Main Street, Abbeyfeale on this Friday night 4th August at 9pm. All are welcome. Bucket Collection - Abbey Utd. will hold a bucket collection on Saturday August 5th. between 10am and 6pm to raise funds for the club. Please be generous in your support. DEATH - Sincere sympathy is offered to Noel Woulfe, Mill Farm and all the Woulfe family on the death of Noel's sister Stella in Dublin recently. May she rest in peace. CAR BOOT SALE and Farmers' Market - A fundraising Car Boot Sale and Farmers' Market will be held at the Community Centre, NCW on Sunday August 6th. from 9am until 3pm. Monday, August 7th - the local Gardai and Firemen defend their title and pride - in a showdown with the local publicans in a 9 Hole 2 Ball Scramble. Tee times will be at 5pm and 7pm. All proceeds from this event will go to charity and last year over ?1000 was raised in aid of the Special Olympics. If you would like to take part or receive any other information, look out for the posters around town or contact Noel O‚Hanlon at Jack Ryan‚s Bar or Garda Mick Sheehan at Abbeyfeale Garda Station. GOLF: Monday, August 7th - the local Gardai and Firemen defend their title and pride - in a showdown with the local publicans in a 9 Hole 2 Ball Scramble. Tee times will be at 5pm and 7pm. All proceeds from this event will go to charity and last year over ?1000 was raised in aid of the Special Olympics. If you would like to take part or receive any other information, look out for the posters around town or contact Noel O‚Hanlon at Jack Ryan‚s Bar or Garda Mick Sheehan at Abbeyfeale Garda Station. Athea THE third draw in the 500 GAA club draw was held on Saturday night at Donie Lyons. The following were the lucky winners on the night. ?500 (no 112), Georgie O’Connor, Lower Road; ?250 (no 141), Denis Lane, Knocknasna, Abbeyfeale; ?200 (no 256), Jimmy Kirby, Parkana; ?150, (no 410), Jack Hunt, Coole East; ?100 each — (no 482), Ted Ahern, Upper Athea; (no 10), Connie Noonan, Glasha; (no 303), Canon Kelly, Athea; (no 306), Gary and Jack Vaughan, Coole West; (no 363), Brownie and Billy “Irwins”, Athea; (no 87), Willie and Breda Mullane, Knockbawn; (no 316) Peter and Chloe O’Connor, Hillside Drive; (no 84), Gary O’Keeffe, Upper Athea. Congratulations to everyone and there’s still a few chances left for the rest of us. CEMETERIES: The annual cemeteries Masses are being celebrated on Monday, August 7 at Ahavoher (Gale Bridge); on Tuesday, August 8 at Old Knockanure and Wednesday, August 9 at Murhur. The committee have done tremendous work over the past year laying tarmac and much more and are looking for help to defraying the costs. They have got contributions from Kerry County Council and Thuatha Chiarraí but still have a debt to pay. They are appealing to people to give generously at the Masses and anyone from Athea who wishes to donate their help would be appreciated. LUCKY NUMBERS: Athea Community Council held their lucky numbers draw on Saturday night at Drury’s. The jackpot was for the grand sum of ?10,000. There was no outright winner on the night. The numbers drawn were 1, 6, 9, 11. Lucky Dip: ?50, John Garvey, Strand; ?30, Treasa Sexton, Coole West; ?20 each — Jack Keane, Upper Athea; Connie Noonan, Glasha; Loretta Barrett, Dublin; Joanne Sweeney, Athea. Sellers prize: Domhnall de Barra and Dan Griffin. Next week’s draw is at Batt’s and the jackpot is topping ?10,100. Best of luck to everyone. MAN UTD SUPPORTERS CLUB: The Knockdown branch of the Abbeyfeale and District Manchester United Supporters Club will hold a meeting in the Gables Bar on Tuesday night , August 8 at 9.30pm. Members are urgently asked to return their membership fees for the new season. READERS: Readers at Masses this weekend are as follows. Saturday, 7.30pm — Patsy Hayes; Sunday, 11am — Bernadine Enright. COMHALTAS: As part of the five year development for Comhaltas a website for County Limerick is being created. This will list all the musicians, singers and storytellers in each parish from 1990 to the present day. Domhnall de Barra is managing this work and we now have a researcher on the present FÁS scheme to gather information in Athea parish. Her name is Catherine Cleary and in the coming weeks she will be making contact with families of musicians, singers, dancers and storytellers. Athea has a great heritage which deserves to be recorded and preserved for future generations. MEDJUGORGE: A trip is being organised again this year to Medjugorge leaving Cork Airport on October 1 to October 8. The fare is ?565, which includes half board, taxes, etc. A bus will be arranged from Athea and the surrounding area if necessary. Further enquiries to Peter at (068) 21949 or (068) 23733 or (087) 7796952 or indeed you can ask Fr Madden. CROAGH PATRICK: A bus will leave for Croagh Patrick on Sunday next, August 6. Contact Dan at Bridge End Filling Station or phone (068) 42144. Asdee Local Literary Buffs will be heading to the eastern side of the parish in large numbers the weekend after next for the annual Brendan Kennelly Summer takes place from Thursday August 10th to Monday August 14th. One of the most popular social events on the local calendar the Festival which offers a veritable feast for the cultural senses. From its humble beginning back in 2001 the Festival has come a long way since and it is also noticeable that many people are now organising their holidays to coincide with the occasion. Speakers at this year's festival will include Senator David Norris, philosopher John Moriarty, sporting heroes Moss Keane, Mick Galwey and Mick O Connell, journalist Billy Keane and President of the Kerry Archaeological & Historical Society Padraig O'Conchub-hair. This is the sixth year of the festival which was first held in August 2001. The festival honours not only the life and times of one of the nationally acclaimed scribe but also the spirit of the village itself and the people who inspired him. Brendan Kennelly's career spans over four decades capturing the hearts of millions worldwide, and the festival annually attracts thousands of poetry, literature and art lovers from across the globe. The Festival will be officially opened this year by Senator David Norris professor of Literature Trinity College and Joycean Scholar. He will deliver the keynote address sharing his thoughts on this year's theme of Legacy. David will be joined by Cathy Nugent, Colm Stride O'Brien and The Kerry Choral Orchestra for an evening of insight, music and song. The opening ceremony will be held at The Festival Centre Courtyard at the local St Oliver's National School. Thursday 10th August 7.00pm Cork Kerry - Failte Ireland Tourism Reception Open to all patrons & sponsors of the festival. Venue Festival Centre, St. Oliver's National School. Admission: Free to all patrons & sponsors. 7.30pm Admission: ?15 Early booking advisable This venue is weather dependent. Consult local signs on the day. Friday 11th August 12.15 - 1.15pm Leaving the Land Eanna Ni Lamhna will address the topic Leaving the Land. Is it really happening - anyone with half an eye looking at our costal counties can see that this is not so. Who are these new planters and what are they doing to the land. Should we wish that they leave the land alone. Venue: Festival Centre, St. Oliver's School Admission ?10, 4.30 - 5.30pm Since I am of Kerry A chance to hear philosopher and native son John Moriarty speak in his own inimitable fashion on this year's theme of legacy. 6.30 - 7.30 Mo Sceal Fein Moss Keane, Mick Galway & Billy Keane. Enjoy a riveting and hilarious evening with this trio in conversation. Billy Keane published author, Sports Journalist and proprietor of John B. Keane's bar, Moss Keane legendary second row forward for Ireland, Munster & Lansdowne RFC published book Rucks, Mauls & Gaelic Football ,Mick Galway legendary second row for Ireland, Munster and Shannon RFC and current coach for Shannon RFC. 8.30pm The launch of four individual shows by artists Stephen Murphy, Brenda Fitzmaurice, Jennifer O'Connor and Betty Hannon Flavin. Venue: Festival Centre, St. Oliver's School, Admission: Free 9.30pm - De Bogadeers? Join De Bogadeers for one of the festival's highlights. A tour through poetry, song and story in the pubs of the village. Assembly: Festival Courtyard, St. Oliver's School. Admission:Free 10.00 - Evening Entertainment Saturday 12th August 11.15am A Mystery Tour A guided, mystery bus tour only for the stout of heart. Festival ticket holders please note a surcharge of ?5 will be charged for this event. Assembly: Festival Courtyard, St. Oliver's School. Admission: ?15 12.15 - 1.15pm Kerry's greatest son:the legacies of Daniel O'Connell. Legacy Lectures & Readings, Workshops, Children's Events. Art Exhibitions, Music & Drama, Fringe Events Thursday 10th - Sunday 13th August 2006, The Brendan Kennelly Poetry Competition Sponsored by Independent News & Media Judges: Paddy Bushe: Poet; Numerous collections in Irish and English, the most recent of which id The Nitpicking of Cranes (Dedalus, 2004) and Gile na Gile (Coisceim, 2005) Jo O'Donoghue: co-author of Brewer's Dictionary of Irish Phrase and Fable (Orion, 2004) and publisher with Currach Press in Dublin. A first prize of ?1500 will be awarded: Two runners-up awards of ?500 each. Brendan Kennelly was born in Ballylongford in 1936. One of a large family, he went to the local National School, where amongst his teachers was the late Johnny Walsh. He received his secondary education at St. Ita's College, Tarbert, an inter-denominational school, where at the age of 12, he was reading Baudelaire. In 1963 he was appointed to the Department of English in Trinity College, Dublin, became a Fellow of the College in 1967, was promoted Associate Professor of English in 1969, and became the first occupant of the newly-created Chair of Modern Literature in 1973. By 1963 he had published four books of poems, Cast a cold eye (1959), The dark about our loves (1961), The rain, the moon (1962), and Green town lands (1963) in conjunction with Rudi Holzapfel. Since then he has published a further twelve books of poems: Let fall no burning leaf (1963), My dark feathers (1964), Up and at it (1965), Collection one: Getting up early (1966), Good Souls To Survive (1967), Dream of a black fox (1968), Selected Poems (1969), A drinking cup (1970), Bread (1971), Love cry: the Kerry sonnets (1972), Salvation: the stranger (1972), and Selected and new poems (1972). Two novels by him, The crooked cross (1963) and Florentines (1967), have been well received. He won the AE Memorial Prize for Poetry in 1967 and the Critics' Special Harvey's Award in 1988. He is also a celebrated dramatist, whose plays include versions of Antigone, produced by the Peacock Theatre, Dublin, in 1986, and Medea, which premiered in the Dublin Theatre Festival in 1988. His best-known work is the popular and controversial book-length poem sequence, Cromwell, published in Ireland in 1983. His book-length sequence, Judas, was published in 1991, and his work, The man made of rain, was published in 1998 in both book and tape form. His free flowing pen is still producing an abundance of verse and story. REGISTER OF ELECTORS - The Draft Register of Electors in now being updated so if you have reached 18 years of age or have recently changed address you can contact the Franchise Office Kerry County Council at (066) 7183531/3957 to have your details amended. You can also e-mail the office at erea@kerrycoco,ie. Application forms are also available at Post offices, Garda Stations. Libraries, Courthouses, Town Councils and County Council Offices. In the next few weeks a freepost application form will be distributed by An Post to every household in Kerry. Remember if you are not on the Register of Electors then you will not be eligible to vote. WALK FOR BREAST CANCER - A major 5km sponsored fund - raising walk will be held in Dublin on Sunday October 1st in aid of Breast Cancer. The fund - raiser is being spearheaded by Avon Cosmetics. The event will be held simultaneously in 50 other countries worldwide to mark International Cancer Awareness Month. The inaugural event last year was a phenomenal success raising in excess of ?98,000 in Ireland alone. Linking all the events will be the Global Connection Ribbon Tour in which a symbolic ribbon will be passed from one woman who has been through the breast cancer experience to another in each country. The handover ceremony between Ireland and Bulgaria will be one of the highlights of the Irish fund - raiser. The money raised will go towards the Avon Breast Cancer Crusade set up in Ireland in 1998 to fund the work of the Avon Breast Cancer Nurse Councillor based at the ARC Cancer Support Centre in Dublin. To date the crusade has raised over ?446,000 and this year was able to set up another specialist Nurse Councillor Post at ARC Cancer Support Centre in Cork. Everyone that completes the walk will be presented with an exclusive Avon Breast Cancer Crusade prize pin incorporating a stylish gold - tone heart inside a pink ribbon. To participate in the big fund - raiser you must fill out the registration form and pay the registration fee of ?10. Registration forms can be downloaded from the Internet at www.avon.ie or phone (01) 8706540 or e-mail watwo@avon.com. I have a number of registration forms so anyone interested in competing can contact me Sponsorship cards will be mailed out to all those that have registered towards the end of August. The 5km walk will take place within the grounds of the Phoenix Park in Dublin with the walk commencing at 12noon on Sunday October 1st. This is an ideal opportunity for local walkers to put their exercise regime to good use so if you can sign up for the walk and help a most deserving cause in the process. NO NAME CLUB A.G.M. - The Shannonside No Name Club (Adult Committee) are holding their A.G.M. at the Community Centre in Tarbert on Monday August 7th at 8 o' clock. The No Name Club caters for teenagers from 15-18 yrs. Anyone interested in joining and helping in the running of the club will be very welcome to attend. ST JOHN'S CEMETERY MASS - The annual Mass at St. John's Cemetery in Ballybunion will take place on Wednesday evening August 9th at 8pm. DANCING - The Joanne Barry School of In Step Dancing are staging a Strictly Freestyle Exhibition of Dancing at The Dome in Tralee on August 19th at 3pm. The Dancing is part of the programme foe Rose of Tralee festival It will have particular interest to the Asdee area as several children from Asdee are members of the dancing group. MEMORIES LANE - There has been little change in the village of Asdee in recent years but going back a number of generations ago a lot of people lived in the village and now their names don't exist in the area any more. At that time many tradesmen also resided in the area but sadly some of these trades are now extinct in the area. At the western side of the Asdee bridge and on the left was a house where the Collins family were born. Their father was a weaver. Across the river on the same side lived Thade Gorman and his wife, Maine Moran. There were steps leading down to the house. They were caretakers of the village pump. Maine sold apples, and as her eyesight was rather poor she made sure the schoolchildren stayed outside the half door lest they pinch the apples. Across the road from that was a shoemaker named John English, where Mike Walsh later lived. Across the road at the passageway into Kissanes there were two houses, one owned by John Dalton and the other by a woman who bought kid goats for sixpence each, skinned them and hung them up to sell. Next to Kissane's pub was the residence of Pat Moore's, who was a local baker. The Moore family also ran the post office in the house. People had to call to the house to collect their mail. The post office later moved to McMahon's next door. McMahon was a cooper by trade. His son Matt was the church clerk, in which position he was later succeeded by Mickie Walsh, who also took the post office to his house across the road. Next door to McMahon's was Connor's shop, later to become Mahony's when Dick Mahony married in there. Mickie Walsh's across the road was the old village schoolhouse from 1835 until 1872. Next door to the post office was a thatched shop owned by Johanna O'Connor. It was there all the O'Connors, including teachers and priests, were reared. The O'Connor's originally came from Dingle. The first of them, Patsy, was a teacher. His sons, Patsy and Batty, were also teachers, who taught in Asdee and Tarbert and Ballylongford. Batty was a great teacher who made scholars of the young people of Asdee during that particular era. He had the distinction of holding a BA Degree which was a rare educational qualification at that time. It was in that house that the priest from Ballylongford always ate breakfast after Mass in Asdee chapel and where he always heard confessions before Mass. There were no confessions in Asdee church until about 1919, when quarterly confessions were introduced at the church. Up to then confessions were usually heard at the spring and autumn stations in the houses and communion was also not very frequent. There was a story about the old chapel in Asdee. It appears that something caused the congregation to panic during a midnight Mass in the chapel. They felt they were being surrounded by some strange manifestation. Some believed they were surrounded by their dead that night. There was a story told of a needle being found in someone's clothing afterwards. The needle had last been in the possession of someone drowned in Beal Strand. Across the road from the chapel was Robin Cahill's, later Kissane's, later Buckley's, and later Fitzgerald's. Over the road past the school and the teachers houses was Hannie Shea's cottage. Hannie was an O'Connor home from America. Her father died in his canoe while herring fishing on the Shannon. This trip down memory lane comes from a tape recording of the late Matt Enright of Craughdarrig which took place back in 1960. Matt was great historian who could vividly recall with great clarity events going back to his early childhood OBITUARY - -This side of the parish was saddened to learn of the death of Kit Dee (nee Moloney) of Rusheen Ballylongford and formerly of Woodford Listowel. A member of a very well known and highly respected family Kit passed way after an illness borne with great courage and dignity. The Asdee area was well represented at the obsequies and internment which took place to Lislaughtin Cemetery. Deepest sympathy is extended to all her family and relatives. SYMPATHY - Is extended to Marian O Hanlon of Asdee East on the death during the week of her mother in Co Clare. HOCKEY TRAINING - Children of the area have an opportunity to learn the skills of a new sport this coming weekend with junior hockey training about to commence at the soccer grounds in Craughdarrig on This Saturday July 5th at 10pm. The training is for both boys and girls with the first 45 minutes for children in the 5 , 6 and 7 age bracket and for the second 45 minutes for children in the 8 , 9 and 10 age group. Children are asked to bring their PE gear with them and hockey sticks will be provided. The Training course is being conducted by Dave Griffin of Littor Road who has the proud distinction of play the game at national level. ST. PIO PRAYER MEETING - The local St. Pio Prayer Group will hold their monthly Prayer Meeting at St. Mary's Church on Thursday night August 3rd at 7pm followed by Mass at 8pm. LISLAUGHTIN MASS: The Annual Open Air Mass at Lislaughtin Cemetery will be celebrated on Wednesday August 2nd at 8pm. DAISY CHAINS OPEN DAY - There was a good turnout on Sunday at the Daisy Chains pre School Open Day which took place at the community centre. Parents had an opportunity to see the fine facilities that are in place and have a chat with the staff that run the local childcare service. POWER CUT - Batteries and drums of gas were in big demand on Sunday morning as an unexpected electricity black out occurred due to a major fault in the Asdee/Ballylongford area which was caused by lightening. Power supplies were out for just over 4 hours leading to many people having to wait well into the evening before being able to cook their Sunday lunch. To their credit ESB crews were out quickly repairing the fault and they are to be commenced on a job well done. SOCCER UPDATE - The Asdee Rovers Club are stepping up activities in recent weeks as they prepare for the new season which kicks off on August 27th. At a meeting of the club on Friday night a new management team for the A side was finalised with Sean O Keeffe, Fintan Henry and Eoin O Mahony given the task of taking charge of the team. All three have a lot of experience in this field and will be calling on all players to give good commitment for the year ahead. The formation of an Asdee B team was also given the stamp of approval with a good panel of players interested in playing with the team. This side will be give a good opportunity to up and coming young players to get a lot of experience. The manager of the B team is Mike Vallely and he will be selecting two more people to take charge of the team with him. A meeting of the local underage committee was also held during the week and they are also busily preparing for the start of the Kerry Schoolboys League campaign. Asdee will be fielding both an under 12 and under 14 team and regular training sessions are already in progress and are being very well attended. 5 A SIDE BLITZ - A 5 a side Soccer Blitz will be held at Craughdarrig Park on this bank - holiday Monday August 7th beginning at 12 noon. The competitions has aroused a lot of local interest and a big turnout us anticipated. Everyone interested in playing must have their names handed in to Joe Dee by this Friday night at the latest. The blitz will be completed on the day and all games will have to begin on time and late starts will not be entertained. LOTTO HITS ?6,000 - The Asdee Rovers Weekly Lottery Draw was held at Jesse James tavern on Sunday night and the Jackpot was not won. The numbers drawn were 3 - 4 - 12 - 21. The lucky Dip prize winners were ?50 ?25 Joan Moloney, Larha, ?25 Tom Gorman, Clounamon, ?25 Ellen Tydings, Ballynoneen Next week's draw will be held at The Store and the Jackpot is ?6,000 G.A.A. - A sizeable contingent of local G.A.A. fans made the cross channel trip to Ennis on Sunday for the All Ireland minor football quarter final between Kerry and Mayo. Local interest was heightened by the fact that John Kennedy is the coach of the team and his son Eoin is a member of the Kerry minor panel. Eoin made a very valuable contribution to the game when he was introduced as a sub in the second half and scored a super goal which ensured victory for Kerry, They now meet Donegal in the semi - final where they carry everyone's best wishes for further success. Ballybunion TIR na nOG: Tir na nOg Summer Camp is running throughout the Summer on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursdays. This summer Camp is for over 5‚s. 10.15-12.30: Outdoor Summer Camp. Meet at the Community Centre and head to the Men‚s Beach for sports activities including volleyball, soccer, and rounder‚s, tennis and walks. ?3 per child per morning. No booking necessary. Children must wear sun cream if weather is good and bring a drink. Collection at community centre 2pm-4pm: Community Centre, activities include sports, arts and crafts, trampoline, table tennis, board games etc. ?5 per child per session. No booking necessary. Each camp is supervised by qualified and experienced staff. Contact 087-2700541 for more details. Tir na nOg Preschool are now taking enrolments for September. Children must be 2 and a half years old but do not have to be toilet trained. Contact Sorcha at 087-2700541 for more details. WEATHER: The change in last weeks weather didn’t put a damper on the crowds that enjoyed their weekend in Ballybunion as we enter into the busiest part of the Summer and the town welcomes home the many local sons and daughters who have returned for their holidays visiting from the UK and America with their families. It’s great to see the next generation of chidren enjoying their summer in Ballybunion. WEDDING - Wedding bells rang out in Riga Italy for local couple Ms Kay O Callaghan East End and Mr Adrian Bryant formerly of Australia. The couple both work in the Health Care filed locally and all their many friends and family wish them many years of happiness and congratulations on their recent wedding in the Italian Lake resort. BUSINESS NEWS - Bad hair days in Ballybunion are a thing of the past ...according to David Paul, proprietor and head stylist at the DAVID PAUL HAIR STUDIO recently opened on lower Main Street. David returned to live in Glin with his family and fell under the spell of Ballybunion’ Sea Air a few months back when he decided to open a NEW Salon in town. Hailing originally from Bournemouth his highly qualified and varied Hairstyling Career has taken him thru out the UK and cut his way across the oceans during his work on Cruise Ships over the past few years. Like any great stylist David Paul believes that all GHD’s (Good Hair Days) begin with a Great Cut so give him a call for your next appointment. Hours of Business are Everyday 10am – 7pm (Closed on Thursdays). In keeping with his sea –side location David also stocks and excellent range of organic Irish made Seaweed Hair products. David Paul Hair Studio 068 28802. IT CENTER - The Ballybunion IT Center located in the Community Center on Lartigue Road is open 930am- 5pm Monday to Thursday and Friday 930am to 1pm. This fantastic community based service has internet access for all while also offering one-to-one tuition in the center or in your own home. IT Access offers computer training in ECDL, Payroll, SAGE Computerised Accounts, CAD, Basic Beginner & Intermediate level computers. Other Services include Faxing, Scanning, Printing, Typing, Web Design, Computer Repairs and advice. Drop in to use the Internet Café and have a chat with our consultants. GRAVEYARD MASS - The annual Graveyard Mass in aid of the St. Johns Cemetery , Church Road, will take place on Wednesday August 9th at 8pm and all are invited to attend. DEATH - The town and surrounding areas are still in mourning with last weeks sad news of the passing of two local people. Deepest sympathy is extended to the family and many friends of Garda Eddie O Connor and his children on their loss their wonderful mother and wife Margaret (Mags) O Connor . Sympathy also to Pat and Máire Hitchen and their family on the sudden loss of Pats brother Gerard Hitchen known to all as Hick. They will be sadly missed and our thoughts and Prayers are with both families at this difficult time. TIDY TOWNS: Ballybunion tidy towns annual competition nominations Best Garden - Betty Hartnett, Noreen Farrell, Liz Walsh, Doreen Costello, Peggy Jones, Ann Fogarty, Mick Murphy, Don Gorman, Mossie Brosnan, Don Phelan Best Overall Premises - Francis Bennett, Breda Brosnan, Tom Aherne, Mary Horgan, Mickey Mulvihill Best Estate - Doon Road, Seafield estate/hillview cresent, Marian Cresent. Marconi Avenue. Sandhill Park Best Commercial Premises - Ballybunion Golf club, Mcmunns, Harty Costelloes, The Cashen Bar, Hanrahans Restaurant Second stage of the competition will be on the week of the 7th of august when winners will be picked nominations will be asked to the presentation of the prizes on the week of the 14th of august venue and time TBC SCRUBBERS GOLF SOCIETY: Come and join the Scrubbers Golf society at Ballyheigue Golf Club on Wednesday, August 2. Tee time 6-7pm. Magnificent prizes sponsored by Zzapps and Sundaes. Presentations at the Cashen Bar. All newcomers welcome. Ballydonoghue/ Lisselton CLUB LOTTO; Last week's Club Lotto Draw took place in Cantillions. The numbers drawn were 8,16,17 and 20. There was no winner. The winners of the lucky dips were Bernie Mahony Pulleen, Eileen Shanahan Dromin, John Joy Croagh, Denis Buckley Tullamore and Maria O' Sullivan Tullamore. The winners of the three free draws were Kennelly family Lacca, Fiona Keane Barraduff and Tony/ Rosie Collins Duagh. This weeks draw, for a jackpot of 1,700 euro will take place in The Thatch on Friday night. RESULTS: U16 Co. League Div 4 Rd 5. Ballydonoghue played Firies in Coolard on Sunday 23rd. Firies had come into this game quietly confident after their win over joint table toppers Milltown/Castlmaine. But it was Ballydonoghue that looked to be the better team right from the start. With Eamon Walsh kicking a point after 3mins. Firies replied with a point a minute later but would only score two more points in the first half the second and third points coming in the 22 and 29 mins. While Ballydonoghue were totally dominating things at this stage Eamon Walsh kicking 6pts. four from frees and Kevin Costello winning everything at centrefield. Ballydonoghue were 11pts to 3pts ahead at half time. Firies started the second half by kicking two pts. inside 3mins. and from here until the finish would put it up to Ballydonoghue, their midfield pairing were coming more into the game and were causing lots of problems as they ran at the Ballydonoghue defence and only some fine work by fullback Micheal Shanahan kept them from scoring. But then a penalty for Ballydonoghue after a shot for goal was knocked out by the keeper and in the ensuing scramble the ball was handled on the ground inside the square by one of the Firies backs and Christhoper Mason made no mistake from the spot kick. Ballydonoghue would only have one more score in the second half a point in the 17min. In the final hectic 10mins only two great saves from the Ballydonoghue keeper Darren O' Connor would prevent Firies from winning a game they looked to be totally out of at half time, as it was we hung on and had four points to spare at the final whistle. Final score Ballydonoghue (1-12) Firies (0-11). U12 N.K.League Listowel (3-14) Ballydonoghue (3-5) Ballydonoghue were ahead by 7pts at the break but could not maintain their momentum in the second half. FIXTURES: No Co. League games either this week as Kerry take on Armagh in the All Ireland 1/4 Final. Our Minors play on Bank Holiday Monday 7th Aug in the N.K. League Semi-Final. U21 Co. C'ship 1/4 Final. Shannon Rangers play East Kerry on Thursday 3rd Aug in Glenflesk at 7:15p.m. U16 Co. League Div 4 Rd 6 Ballydonoghue play Churchill on Wed.2nd Aug in Coolard at 7;30p.m. U12 N.K.League Ballydonoghue play Finuge Monday 7th Aug in Coolard at 7:30p.m. SYMPATHY: The Club extends its sympathy to the Dillion family Janemount on the death of Michael Dillon who died in Co. Meath recently. Micheal played with Ballydonoghue during the '50's WEBSITE; This is an excellent way for people abroad to keep in touch with what is happening in the Club and is well worth a visit by anybody who has not yet done so. The website has now almost 2500 hits since its launch in February and is going very strong. It contains all match reports from all this years Senior Games, Club History, Photos, lotto results and the option to enter the draw online, all the notes since February and the discussion forum, which has over 4000 posts on it. Also, we are looking for somebody to take care of the Bord Na Nog section. If anybody is interested in this and also wants to learn some web design, please either talk to a club officer or email ballydonoghueclg@eircom.net. The address for the website is www.ballydonoghue.net/gaa. CEMETERY MASS: Mass in St. John's cemetary, Ballybunion, takes place on Wednesday, August 9th at 8pm. DEATHS: Sympathy is extended to Jeremiah Behan, Lisselton, on the death of his sister, Maura Nally in Drogheda last week. Internment took place in Drogheda. The death has occured of Mary B. Kissane, Moybella. Sympathy is extended to her sons, Timmy, Jimmy and Tom, her daughter, Anne-Marie and her extended family. The death has occured of Willie Hanrahan, Inch. Sympathy is extended to his sisters, Teresa and Sr. Regis, his brother Tom (U.S.A.) and his extended family. Holidays; Ballyduff CAMOGIE NEWS: Congratulations to all the girls who took part in the blitz in Abbeydorney on Sunday 30th July. This was a great day for the girls with everyone getting a chance to play. Thanks to their parents, families and friends for their support and encouragement also thanks to Abbeylix club for their hospitality. U-8 Ciara Kate Canty, Mary Ann Whyte, Erin Rowan, Aideen Casey, Claire Murphy, Aoife O‚Connor, Sinead Leen. U-10 , Sorcha Dineen, Andrea Hanly, Grace Costello, Emma Griffin, Sarah Treacy,Lorraine Keane. U-12 Katie Casey, Patrice Diggin, Sara Murphy, Laura Murphy, Nicole Whyte, Tracey Dooley, Sarah Casey, Lauren Dineen, NiamhWhyte, Mairead Leen. Training will continue every Wednesday night from 6 to 7 p.m and every Saturday from 11a.m to 12 noon in the sports field Causeway. New members welcome to come along and join in the fun. Lotto: The results of the Ballyduff Community Games and Ladys Walk Hurling Club weekly Lotto for Monday July 24th are as follows; The numbers drawn were 2,6 13 and 22. There was no winner of the jackpot and the following won ?50 each: Lizzie O'Carroll, Coole. Lorna Mulvihill, Meath. Sarah Anne Ross, The Village. TV Draw; Emma O'Brien, Bishopscourt. Seán Costello, Clashmealcon. Mick Brosnan, Ahabeg. Summertime Theatre: On this Saturday August 5th the Summertime Lunchtime Theatre will take place at Listowel Castle with Listowel Drama Group performing "Box Open, Box Shut" a selection from the Works of Bryan McMahon, commencing at 1.30pm. Admission is free Under 8 and Under 10 Football: At Duagh on this Sunday August 6th an under 8 and under10 football challenge will take place between Ballyduff and Duagh. All Ballyduff are asked to be at The Square at 11.15 am Fixtures - Wednesday August 2nd County Junior Football League Final - Ballyduff V Moyvane (venue to be decided) 7.30pm Thursday August 3rd North Kerry Under14 Hurling - Ballyduff v Causeway at Ballyduff 6.30pm Thursday August 3rd North Kerry Minor Football - Ballyduff vKnock/Brosna at Ballyduff 8.00pm Ballyheigue SINN FEIN: The Wolfe Tones with Support Band will appear live at The Brandon Hotel on this Friday night, August 4th. Doors open at 9. Tickets E20. Over 18's. ID essential. Tickets are available from the Brandon Hotel on 7123333 or from Risteard O Fuarain on 087 6763764. The Annual Vol. Jack Lawlor Commemoration will take place on this coming Monday, August 7th. Assemble at 1.30 at the Roger Casement Memorial. Main Speaker: Deputy Martin Ferris, TD. Failte roimh chach. All welcome. COURSING CLUB: Numbers drawn in Ballyheigue Coursing club’s lotto draw were 3, 12, 16, 23. There was no winner. Prizewinners: ?50, Timmy O’Regan, Marian Park; ?50, Griffin, Cleandries; ?25, Bridie Dowling, Castlelawn; ?25, Brendan Reidy, Tiershanahan. Next week’s jackpot will be ?4,400 and will be held in the Castle Arms on Sunday, August 6. AGM: The annual general meeting of Ballyheigue Coursing club will be held in the White Sands Hotel on Thursday, August 10 at 9pm. LOTTO: The following numbers were drawn at Saturday night’s GAA lotto 13, 18, 19, 21. The jackpot of ?1,350 was not won. Next week’s jackpot will be ?1,400. Prizewinners: ?50 each — John Corridan, Glenderry West; Noel Drury, Marian Park; ?25, Nora Stapleton, c/o Centra. The death took place during the week of Mary Connell (nee Kirby), Chapel Road. She is survived by her brother, nieces, nephews and relatives. Burial on Saturday in the Holy family cemetery, Ballyheigue. LIFE PACK GROUP: Ballyheigue Life Pack group would like to thank all those who supported us in the last couple of years, through that support we now have reached our target and have placed heart saver defibrillators in the following areas — Community Centre, Rocket House, opposite Glenderry School and the Parish Church. We will also have an open night in the next couple of weeks where people can see all our units and anyone interested in joining can also sign up on that night. Finally would all those who have completed the Irish Heart Foundation Heart Saver AED programme and have been issued with certs please attend at the Community Centre on Wednesday night at 9pm where they will be issued with keys to the units. GAA: The Ballyheigue senior hurlers drew with Ballyduff on Monday evening in the County League at Ballyduff. Final score Ballyheigue 3-9, Ballyduff 1-5. Well done to the Kerry under 16 hurlers who defeated Westmeath in the All-Ireland B championship quarter-final on Sunday. Full time score Kerry 3-7, Westmeath 0-5. Ronan Kenny, Danny Casey and Kevin Reidy were members of the team. Congratulations to the Kerry minor hurlers who defeated Westmeath in the All-Ireland B Championship final on Sunday. Richard O’Mahony was a member o f the team. Full time score was Kerry 1-9, Westmeath 0-10. Brendan Dunne was a selector with the team. FIXTURES: North Kerry under 14 championship — Ballyheigue v St Brendan’s at Ballyheigue this Thursday evening at 6.30pm. County under 16 league, Ballyheigue v Lixnaw at Ballyheigue on Saturday evening at 4.30pm. LADIES FOOTBALL: Ballyheigue ladies football meeting this Wednesday night in Kirby’s Bar. Ages 6 upwards. Anyone interested please attend the meeting. All welcome. CILLARD CAMOGIE CLUB: Training for the girls will take place on Wednesday evening between 7 and 8pm at Lerrig. Congratulations to the U-16’s who won the camogie game against Abbeylix in Ardfert on Friday evening last. Cordal CHURCH gate collection on Sunday next is on behalf of Kerry Parents and Friends Association. Your contribution will help in work of this hard working voluntary group. SYMPATHY . . . to the Brosnan family, Clune on the death of their aunt Peggy Corcoran (nee O’Mahony) Ballyhar. DUTIES: Readers for Sunday, August 6 are Martina O’Donoghue and Joseph Enright. Eucharistic Ministers — Monica Prendiville and Tom Wrenn. Altar servers — Aileen Cullinane, Eilish O’Callaghan, Jerry Mannix and Darren O’Callaghan. Cleaners for August — Breda Flaherty and Noreen Flaherty. Collectors for August — Breda Wrenn, Brid Wrenn, Jimmy Roche, John Flaherty and Eileen Walsh. PHYSIOTHERAPY: A house to house collection is in progress to help defray the cost of providing a suitable building for a modern physiotherapy unit for Castleisland and adjacent parishes. This facility will provide a much needed service to young and old on referral by their GP’s and is a free service to all who avail of it. Please be as generous as possible. Dingle KERRY HOSPICE: The Dingle branch of Kerry Hospice is holding a Grand Raffle on August 10th. Prizes An original painting by Mazz and a Waterford crystal bowl. Tickets are 5 euros each and can be had at several Dingle outlets. So if you are heading for Dingle , buy a ticket and support this worthy cause. THE 41st annual agricultural show was held on Sunday. Standards in all classes were on a par with previous years. The prize for best dairy cow went to Peter Kennelly, Ardfert and in the confined class to Dara Murphy, Tubber, Lispole. The pony class went to Con Sugrue, Farmers Bridge, Tralee. Best Irish draught brood mare went to Kevin Knightly, Annascaul. Champion pony of the show went to Tom O’Connor, Lixnaw. In the sheep classes the prize for best Scotch yearling ram went to Oliver Brosnan, Ballybowler. Best dressed lady, Mrs Mary Boland, Fahan, Ventry. An Granny Gaelach, Maureen Bean Uí Luaing, Ceann Trá. 2006 Art — Adult: 1, C Ni Laoithe; 2, Mary Fitzgerald. Children — U-14: 1, Rachel O’Mahony. U-12: 1, Kate Ni Shuilleabhain. U-10: 1, Brian Kennedy and Caoimhe Ni Geabhain; 2, Anna Kelly, Caoimhe Ni Geabhain, Niamh Galvin. U-8: 1, Sean Desmond; 2, Caoimhe Ni Shuirdain. U-6: 1, Emile Ni Gheabhain; 2, Kieran O Concubhair and Cillian Desmond. U-4: 1, Rachel O’Sullivan; 2, Muireann Ni Gheabhain. HURLING: In the under 12 hurling match played on Monday evening last, Dingle drew with Kenmare on the score Dingle 4-1 Kenmare 2-7. Duagh LOTTO: The GAA lotto jackpot was not won last weekend so E7000 will be available on Friday night next August 4th when the draw will be held at O Connors Bar. Numbers drawn last week were:1,3,17,18. No jackpot winner. E20 each to the following: Dan & Maureen Aherne Lyre, Emma & Amie Sheehy c/o Stephen Moran, Wayne Hooper c/o The Elm, Timmy McMahon Duagh, Brenda Flynn Kilmorna. 5 free tickets each to the following: Charlie Murphy c/o Jer Kelly, Noelle Collins c/o Kostal, Declan Murphy Lyre, Rose Shannon c/o Kostal, Killian Buckley Ballygarrett. Sellers prize: Mary Carmody. TITLE: Well done to the following under age players who brought an Under 12 title to the parish: James O Connor, Christopher Breen, Ruaidhri Keane, Shane Ahern, Thomas Scanlon, Jack Dillon, Shane Horgan, Kieran Lucey, Eamon McKenna, Aaron O Connor, Nigel O Connor, Gerard McCarthy, Eilish Dillon, Padraig O Donoghue, Laura Sheeran, Alan Mangan, Donncha Curtin, Niamh Duffy, Dillon O Regan, Luke O Donnell, Aisling Mangan, Eoin Lucey, Mariah Stack, Taylor Sheehy, Oisin Mangan, Mairead McNamara, Daniel Meehan, Niamh Kelly. Well done also to Eoin Kelly of Kilcara who last week was selected on the Kerry Under 14 hurling panel. COISTE: Coiste na Nog are offering club O‚Neill tracksuits for sale.The prices are as follows Children ?50 Adult (Small ) ?65 Adult ( Medium & Large ) ?75.A minimum order of 6 tracksuits per size is required by O‚Neills to proceed with the order.If interested please contact Doreen Buckley at 068/45428 or 087/9313846 on or before July 15th. GAA:The Duagh juniors were defeated by Fossa in the county Urban final recently. Duagh started well and went 4 points to nil up after 20 mins and but for some missed chances should have been more in front. However Fossa got 3 quick points and then a killer goal followed. Duagh never recovered from this and we were just chasing the game after this. The youthful Fossa team seemed much fitter and hungrier than Duagh and well deserved the win. The Duagh minors are in the semi final of the North Kerry league and this fixture could very likely go ahead on Tuesday next August 8th. Please ckeck the fixtures. DANJOE: On Sunday next at 2.30 in the Duagh sportsfield the annual DanJoe Murphy memorial tournament final betwen Duagh and Clounmacon will take place.DanJoe you will remember was a Duagh club mentor and supporter who prematurely went to his reward at a youthful age some time ago.Please support this venture. GRAVEYARD: The annual graveyard mass will be held on Tuesday August 8th at 7.30pm.You are asked to please look after your family plots and let anybody know that is far away from the parish about the above proceedings. SHANNON: The Shannonside No Name Club (Adult Committee) are holding their A.G.M. at the Community Centre in Tarbert on Monday August 7th at 8 o' clock. The No Name Club caters for teenagers from 15-18 yrs. Anyone interested in joining and helping in the running of the club will be very welcome to attend. Finuge Congratulations to Jean Thomas who celebrated her 21st birthday with family, friends and neighbours at a party in Finuge on Saturday night. Nursing colleagues were among a large group of friends who travelled from the Mid-lands for the celebrations. Anniversary - Also celebrating a birthday, but of a different type, were local businesswomen Carmel Breen and Benita Finnerty. They have just completed their first full year in the restaurant business and we wish them continued success at “Mai Fitz’s”. Weekend - This weekend Finuge will welcome hundreds to the village for the Sean McCarthy Festival. From the official re-opening of Sheahan’s Thatched House on Thursday evening right through to Monday night, Finuge is the place to visit for lively concerts, ballads, dancing, football and generally having a good time. Seven-a- side - Following the success of last year’s 7-a-side football tournament we are again hosting this very enjoyable competition over the holiday weekend. Up to a dozen teams have expressed interest in competing for the ?1,000 first prize. The first rounds of the tournament will take place on Sunday afternoon with the semi-finals and final on Monday afternoon. There will also be an over 35’s challenge match. Full details can be had from Conor Galvin or from the competition sponsor, Mary McCarthy. Fixtures - Our Under 8 and Under 10 teams travel to Moyvane this evening, Wednesday, to play two challenge matches. For our youngest players this will be their first time “travelling away” and we ask that as many parents as can make the trip to please do so. Cars are asked to assemble in Finuge by 6.30pm for a 7pm start in Moyvane. Quarter Final - In the middle of what promises to be a hectic weekend many Finuge football supporters will travel to Croke Park for the All Ireland quarter-final with Armagh. Last Saturday’s win over Longford will prove a great confidence booster as it saw the Kerry machine firing sweetly on all cylinders for the first time in ages. In a game where we were treated to football, basketball and some terrific volleyball smashes, Paul Galvin again worked extremely hard and contributed well to the victory. Eamonn Fitzmaurice also contributed well when introduced and is a valuable replacement to have on standby as the seventy plus minutes of running football now requires all teams to use up most of their squads. We wish them well against Armagh in a game that will decide the opposition for Dublin and most likely the All Ireland championship. Hurling - Lixnaw Hurling Club are holding their annual fund-raising benefit meeting at Tralee Greyhound Track on Saturday night. Following on the erection of a fine stand Hermitage Park, they are planning further improvements and deserve our support for all they are doing to promote the game of hurling. GAA: Finuge U12; North Kerry League, Finuge: 2-8 .Duagh: 5-11 Finuge U12s are back on track again thankfully following their non appearance for last weeks first round game against Brosna, which was a bit of a disaster really. Rumours of unrest in the camp had been quickly put to bed during the week and in fairness the way the team played against Duagh wouldn’t concur with the so called false rumours. However, the non appearance of the manager for the game, without any explanation 
