sport football
{  
    April 13 2011 10:57 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/long-road-to-recovery-for-moran-27406238.html }
IT'S a season-ending injury that was made famous by a Kerry man and that has now, unfortunately, added another Kingdom footballer to its long and growing list of victims. While the term cruciate knee ligament injury might be somewhat of a buzz-phrase in the GAA at the moment, back in 1981 Kerry football star Pat Spillane made national headlines, as well as appearing on The Late Late Show, when he ruptured the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee. In that particular era it was meant to be a careerending injury but the Kenmare man bucked that trend, travelling to Cambridge for surgery in 1982 before making a miraculous comeback to win three further Celtic crosses with Kerry and play club football for nearly two further decades. Spillane maintains that cruciate knee ligament injuries have always been in the GAA. He is right. While it's an injury that might have stolen the seasons of Kerry's David Moran and Cork's Colm O'Neill – both players have suffered cruciate tears – in the last few weeks, it has always been lurking in the background like a sinister character from a classic horror movie that just bides its time before striking. And though the recent high-profile GAA casualties have resurrected the profile of this specific injury, physiotherapist John Sugrue, a former physical trainer with the Kerry senior football team, explains to The Kerryman that there are many reasons for the current high rate of cruciate knee ligament injuries. "They have always been there but on a lesser degree. It's probably down to the way that we are living our lives," the South Kerry football star said. " Things are gone very uni-directional in life. People tend to walk around on very level surfaces and sit down in offices. The general level of fitness, compared to the past when people were cycling a lot, were walking on more uneven surfaces and doing a lot more physical activities throughout their day, is not the same now. "I think that, basically, sport has increased in pace, our general and physical activity during the day has reduced. Yet we are going from very low levels of physical activity during the day to playing sport at a top speed in the evening time. The contrast between the two is quite a lot so the body gets relatively little time to wake up and get into a competitive scenario. " The way that our lifestyles have gone is a big factor, and also the pace of sport has got a lot higher and the physical requirements of the body have got a lot higher also. It all takes its toll and it all comes at a certain cost." The cost can be up to 12 months spent on the sideline trying to recover from a serious injury, such as a cruciate ligament injury like the one that Kerry's David Moran suffered in the county's National League win away to Monaghan. Before looking any further at what's involved in the rehabilitation process it's important to understand the significance of a cruciate knee ligament tear. "It's a very serious injury. That particular ligament is one of the main stabilisers of the knee," Sugrue explained. "Functionally for any sports person involved in multi-directional activity it's impossible to compete without a good, functional ligament in the knee. There is no possibility of playing on with that type of injury. It requires surgery to make sure that the knee is functionally stable to return to high-level competitive sport." Nowadays there are many facets in the rehabilitation process because as well as the physical recovery, the psychological aspect which deals with a player's mental state from when the injury is sustained to when he returns to competitive action now plays an important role. The use of sports psychologists has become more commonplace over the last number of years, and when it comes to rehabilitation from a serious injury, such as the one suffered by David Moran, players often undertake a psychological journey, as well as a physical one. But before well-known Cork city-based sports psychologist Canice Kennedy explains one of the many roles that they play when helping a player bounce back from a serious injury, he first addresses the growing prominence in sports psychology. "Sports psychology has become more popular in all sports, not just in the GAA. People have become more aware of it," Kennedy said. " When Wexford won their All-Ireland hurling title in 1996, Niamh Fitzpatrick was their sports psychologist but she was on the team programme for the All-Ireland final as the team's physiotherapist. They didn't want to talk about using a sports psychologist. "Nowadays people and teams talk openly about using a sports psychologist. The old traditional view of sports psychologists messing with peoples' heads is long gone. People now understand the role of sports psychology in helping improve team work, building confidence or concentration; practical things that can help people perform better on the day." And when it comes to aiding the recovery of an injured player, a sports psychologist's role is important, as Kennedy points out. "The main thing a sports psychologist would do is work on goal-setting in the recovery process," Kennedy said. "There would be strong short-term goals set, directed in connection with the recovery. Once a player finishes his period of rest and starts the rehabilitation process, it's about how much training do you have do in terms of lifting weights, going for walks and going swimming. It's setting goals for the days and weeks ahead." But before a player or an athlete can begin their physical rehabilitation, they can be vulnerable to emotional lows that can undermine their recovery. "There are a number of serious issues that a player is faced with when they suffer a serious injury," Kennedy stated. "First off there is the whole area of doubt, about whether they will ever be able to play again. That has a serious impact. Obviously a cruciate ligament injury is one those classic ones that is very serious and has a long recovery process. This area of doubt can have a big impact. "Then there is the area of withdrawal, whereby an injured player is no longer part of the panel, therefore he doesn't go to training and he doesn't go to matches in the same way he would have if he was fit to play. "There is a discontinuity between the relationship between the injured player and the rest of the panel. That takes some getting used to. "The third issue is the recovery process because for a number of weeks the injured player will be unable to do anything. If you are a high level player that is used to training three, four or five times a week to suddenly not being able to, it's very hard." Another psychological area that an injured player must deal with, almost straightaway, is acceptance of the injury. Once they get over the initial shock and come to terms with their current situation, acceptance is an important stage that usually coincides with the beginning of the physical rehabilitation. It also means that a large degree of the emotional side of the recovery has been dealt with. " The earliest problem that David Moran will have is acceptance. That's a personal one. I think the team – and I have no doubt that Jack O'Connor would – will involve him even though he might be out for the entire season," sports psychologist Canice Kennedy said. "It would be no surprise to see David Moran on the bench for Kerry in the Munster championship and in the All-Ireland championship. That's the way Kerry would do it. That's very important for a player's morale. "Even if you can't necessarily do a lot when you are there, it's about being seen at training. "It's about having contact with the players and management so that they don't forget about you, and that they see you still as part of the panel even though you are injured. There are huge psychological benefits when that happens." But the first physical step – after accepting that he is injured and dealing with the subsequent grief and emotions – that the injured player must take is to undergo surgery on the damaged cruciate ligament. But what's involved in this surgery? John Sugrue details what usually happens. 
