sport football
{  
    December 04 2008 10:51 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/sport/soccer/university-link-set-up-at-sporting-fingal-27789811.html }
Sporting Fingal took another huge stride in its continuing development by announcing a Third Level scholarship scheme for players attached to the club. Details of the scheme were unveiled at a press conference in the Clarion Hotel yesterday. It is being run in collaboration with Dublin City University (DCU) and the Institute of Technology Blanchardstown (ITB). The Scheme, which will commence for the 2009/2010 Academic year, will enable players attached to Sporting Fingal to apply for Sports Scholarships with either DCU or ITB. Through the Scheme, which is supported by the Dublin Airport Authority, Sporting Fingal F.C. will assist players who wish to develop a Third Level qualification while simultaneously pursuing a professional football career. 'I believe that this is a tremendous initiative,' says Liam Buckley, Director of Football of Sporting Fingal F.C. 'This compares favourably with what I have experienced in Europe and will hugely support our plans for long term player development.' Commenting on the initiative, Sporting Fingal F.C.'s Secretary, John O'Brien, said 'the essence of Sporting Fingal, since its inception less than a year ago, has been as a true community-based football club. 'The promotion of education as part of a sporting career is a crucial element in the shaping of mature individuals and good citizenship, and Sporting Fingal's new scholarship scheme supports that aim', O'Brien said. 'The club is grateful to both DCU and ITB for their wholehearted support for the scheme and we look forward to a fruitful partnership which will aid young players as they combine their sporting and educational goals', he added. The two Third Level Institutions involved in the Scheme are enthusiastic partners in the initiative. "DCU has a proud tradition in supporting high performance sportspeople and is delighted to extend this through its association with Sporting Fingal" stated Martin Conry, Secretary of DCU. ITB is equally pleased to be a partner. "By providing Sports Scholarships and excellent support services to gifted students we hope to encourage them to reach their full potential, both academically and in their sporting endeavours" said Ronan Keaskin, Sports Officer of the Institute. For its part, the F.A.I. is very supportive of the proposal. "This is a terrific initiative" said Eoin Hand, Manager – Football Support Services of the F.A.I. 'Previously, there has been a perceived disconnect between education and football, whereas they should really be complementary. This is a very positive step in that direction,' he added. The DAA noted that it was very pleased to support this exciting new initiative 'We have a long-standing policy of supporting projects that offer sporting and educational benefits for young people in our neighbouring communities," said Vincent Wall, Director Communications, DAA. 'This initiative with Sporting Fingal is very much in keeping with the DAA's philosophy of contributing to the betterment of the economic and social life of the Fingal region'. 
