sport football
{  
    November 24 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/sport/other-sports/training-for-minors-27757860.html }
Training for west Wicklow players for the 2001 county minor team takes place in Stratford at 11.15am this Sunday.  The west Wicklow under-17s will play against the county under-16s.   ... Training for west Wicklow players for the 2001 county minor team takes place in Stratford at 11.15am this Sunday. The west Wicklow under-17s will play against the county under-16s. Bray Wanderers put their recent unbeaten four game run on the line with two Eircom League Premier Division matches over the next week. The Seasiders make the long haul out West to take on Galway United at Terryland Park (kick off 7.45 p.m.) on Friday November 24th before returning to the Carlisle Grounds next Wednesday (November 29th) to entertain League and FAI Cup champions Shelbourne in their rearranged fixture at 7.45 p.m. Talking into account a clash with Shamrock Rovers on Sunday December 3rd at the Morton Stadium, Bray boss Pat Devlin feels it's an very important period for the club.'It's a massive week with nine points available' he said yesterday. 'It we accumulate all nine points then we could be up to second place at the very least'. The Green and White's manager went on to add 'We overcame the first hurdle in Cork (City). We've got to capitalise on that result. We are well capable of winning in Galway. Should we take the three points, then it would set us up for Shelbourne nicely'. But stressed the importance of get some points on the board if his team don't pick up wins. 'Teams are achieving wins and results that people don't expect. Everybody's doing very well. But three losses has a team going towards the bottom and you can't afford to be too much out of the frame'. Back at the start of September, Don O'Riordan's Tribesmen left with a 1-0 success from the Carlisle in a clash in which Wanderers dominated but failed to convert their chances. It was opposite scenario on the opening day of the season when Jason Byrne's late header saw the Wicklow outfit record their first ever win at Tolka Park over over Dermot Keely's Dubliner's. Byrne departed late on against Cork last week with ankle problem which is believed to be his ligaments. He is already suspended for the trip to United for two yellow cards against St. Patrick's Athletic and is rated doubtful for the tie with Shels. Devlin has injury worries over Colm Tresson (flu), Dave Campbell (hamstring) and John Ryan (bronchitis). But Ryan is ineligible for the clash with the Red's next following a red card in a recent under 21 match. But Bray will be boosted by the fact both Barry O'Connor and Eddie Gormley came through a friendly fixture with Aer Lingus last week and will be added to the squad. PROBABLE BRAY SQUAD (for both games): John Walsh, Eddie van Boxtal, Colm Tresson, Dave Campbell, Maurice Farrell, Jody Lynch, Mick Doohan, Matt Britton, Keith Long, Paul Keegan, Philip Keogh, Tarzan O'Brien, Gary Dempsey, Stephen Gifford, Ciaran Ryan, Alan Dodd, Gary Smith, Jason Byrne, Barry O'Connor, Eddie Gormley. Kiltegan One of the most important dates for the GAA club is Saturday, November 25. This is the nght we hold our Annual General Meeting in the Club House. The night begins with mass starting at 7.00pm. After the mass the job of electing the new committee for the coming year begins. So please come along and let yout views be heard. A special welcome goes out to all the new people who have moved into the area. Last week's Lotto numbers were8, 11, 18 and 22. Match three winners were Kitty Bookle c/o Mary Farrell, Timmy Collins c/o Mary Farrell, Margaret O' Toole c/o Michael O' Toole, Trish Hannon, Talk of the Town. Next week's jackpot is £1,400. The draw takes place in Talk of the Town. Bray Emmets Bray Emmet's AGM will be held on Wednesday the 22nd of November at 8pm in the Little Flower Hall. All members are encouraged to attend. The following week will see the Juvenile AGM take centre stage and will be held on November 29th at Villa Pacis on the Vevay Road at 8pm. The Bray Emmets web-site has been updated and can be accessed at the following address: www.brayemmets.com. If you have anything to contribute to this or have suggestions for further content, please contact Jim McNicholas (087 - 221 4398) or Ronan O Brien (086 - 817 6482). Bray Emmets Under 14 hurlers are back in action this weekend, when the Semi-Final of the Wicklow League takes place. Bray will take on the traditional stronghold of Carnew. The record shows that the honours have been shared during the early parts of the league campaign so this game promises to be an exciting encounter. At the time of writing the venue has not been announced, but keep an eye on the notice-board at the club shop or Brayemmets.com for more details. The management team of Jim Kiely and Conor Johnson encourage as many supporters as possible to attend. The annual Juvenile Presentation night has been arranged for December 8th to honour the achievements of all Bray Emmets underage teams. All parents are invited to attend this event when medals will be presented All roads must lead to Ashford this Sunday, at 2pm, for every member of our club, as Bray Emmet's Ladies Senior football team, is playing Blessington, in the Senior League final. This is our last big match of the season, and it is vital that our team is well supported. We have a very committed young team, who has performed very well all season, being narrowly defeated in the Championship final. They have all trained very hard over the past few weeks, and should be well prepared for Sunday's encounter. This promises to be an exciting game between two good teams. We have all supported our other adult teams very well this year, so please make one more effort, and be in Ashford at 2pm, this Sunday Many thanks to Kilcoole for providing our Ladies Senior football team with a much needed game on Sunday last. Most of our team played, and it should be very useful for Sundays big game. We played Eire Og in the winter league, also on Sunday, in Greystones, and had a good win. It was good to see the number of supporters who travelled. Most of the ladies team on their way home from Kilcoole called in for a look. Our Senior football team, gave a good account of themselves against a very strong St. Judes team, in the Evening Herald flood lit league, in the Iveagh Grounds on Wednesday last. We could have won this game, had we a full team. Conor Flannery kept us in contention with some great free taking, and also played very well. This is a week for our Ladies Section, as our U-14 Ladies football team is also in a League final. They play An Tochar on Saturday. Unfortunately I have not a time, or a venue. Contact Dave Barry, during the week for more details. The semi-final was in St. Thomas's on Sunday, against Kilbride. Our team gave a very good account of themselves, and won easily. It was a joy to watch the way some of them could control the ball, and solo with it. Indeed it occurred to me that a number of our adult players could learn from it. I have no doubt that the mentors of the senior ladies team who were present are very interested in some of them. Again this team deserves our support, so try to be at the final. Mick Doherty, our esteemed chairman, requests that everybody attends our AGM, this Thursday in the Little Flower Hall, at 8pm. There will be Mass beforehand in the Holy Redeemer, at 7.30pm. The Chairman says, he is fed up with people annoying him in public places about problems they have with the way our club is run. The place to have all this debated is at the AGM and He will not listen to anybody with such problems during the coming year who has no made the effort to attend. Dunlavin Our G.A.A. club extends its deepest sympathy to the Kelly and Doyle families on the death of Michael Mackey and to the Byrne and Miley families on the deathof Matt Byrne. R.I.P. There was no jackpot winner of our lotto last week. Numbers drawn were 1, 9, 12 & 18, with bonus 29. We remind our lotto sellers to please leave your lotto tickets in Burke's Pub by 1 o'clock on Sunday. AVONDALE The Avondale under-12 hurlers gave a wonderful display of hurling against Eire Og in the 'B' final. Many of this young team are also under-8, under-9 and under-10. Best were W. Dwyer, D. Gahan, J. Browne, B. Gahan, M. Kane, S. O'Reilly, L. McDonald, C. Nolan, E. Byrne, C. Kinsella, N. Sunderland, D. Syms, E. Nolan, J. Joyce, T. Shaughnessy. Man of the match was F. Gallagher. All items for this year's GAA book should be with the PRO this Saturday. The social night in the sports complex was very successful. This is the start of getting all players and their families to support the complex. NEWTOWN Well done to the minor footballers who bridged a long gap last Saturday by reaching the county minor championship final. Not since the '70s have Newtown qualified for a minor final. In a close and hard-fought semi-final they overcame St Bridget's by 0-13 to 0-10. All the more noteworthy as they played most of the game with 14 players after Justin Owens received two yellow cards. Our defence recovered from an early setback when rock-solid Glen McKenna sustained a nasty facial injury and had to retire. Word is that Glen is recovering and hopefully will be able to take his customary right full-back berth. Our scorers were: Jason Fitzsimons 0-6, Brian Doyle 0-5, Eric Gammell 0-1, Danny Greenan 0-1. The final is fixed for this Saturday at 2.30pm - check venue. We again ask for full vocal support for the boys. Banners and flags please! We will go into this match as very definite underdogs against a very strong St Pat's team so we need everybody behind the lads. We are grateful to Willie Bourke for the sponsorship of jackets for the squad last Saturday. The numbers drawn in the lotto this week were 2, 9, 12, and 19. There was no jackpot winner while nine people matched three numbers. The jackpot next week will be £6,700. LACKEN There was no winner of this week's lotto when the numbers drawn were 1, 4, 5, and 14. Sheryl McDonald, Joe Clarke, Darrell Tipper, Aidan Condon, and Mary Fisher were the five £10 winners. The jackpot now stands at £2,700 with the next draw taking place on the first of next month. Work on our pitch development programme is now in progress and at the moment the entrance to the grounds is under construction. We are also in the final stages of the publication of our pictorial history book and we are hoping to launch this in the next couple of weeks. We hope to play the first round matches of our football tournament in the next week or two. The matches will be played at 12.30pm on Sundays and the dates will be fixed in accordance with the availability of the competing teams. The draw for the first round is: Kilbride v St Mary's, Valleymount v St Anne's, Lacken v St Martin's, and Blessington v St Finnian's. The tournament is being sponsored by John O'Reilly (Whitestown). The club sends best wishes to Philip Gallagher who celebrated his 21st in Australia recently. Well done also to our fellow parish member Brian Carney who played for Ireland in the recent rugby league world cup. We also send best wishes to Tommy Clarke and wish him a speedy recovery after his recent accident. ARKLOW GERALDINES BALLYMONEY A very enjoyable night was had by all at our annual dinner dance in the Arklow Bay Hotel when guests included county chairman Mick Hagan, assistant secretary Jimmy Dunne and club president Pat Kinsella. Presentations were made to the following: Donal Duffy (clubman of the year); Ciaran Hyland (intermediate player of the year); Noel Cummins (junior player of the year); Darren McAndrew (minor player of the year); and Billy Manley (under-16 player of the year). A table quiz will be held in Condron's Lounge on Thursday, November 30, at 8.30pm. The club extends deepest sympathy to the McElheron family on their recent bereavement. ST PATRICK'S Our minor football team qualified for the county final this coming Saturday with a great victory over St Nicholas by 2-12 to 0-7 in Knockananna last Saturday afternoon. Every player, from goalkeeper to the subs on the line, gave their all and at the end were worthy winners - giving the club a second minor final in three years. Our opponents will be another team from the district, Newtown, and the final takes place in Ashford at 2.30pm this Saturday. Team: David Byrne, Tomas Dunne, Gary Duffy, Mark Conway, Jason Delaney, Fergal Marah, Brian Shannon, Colm Byrne (0-3), Ian Lavelle (0-1), Niall Crowley (0-1), Patrick McWalter (0-2), David Smullen (1-3), Kevin Cullen (0-2), Keith Jameson (0-1), Alan Smullen. Subs: Chris Kavanagh (1-0) for K. Cullen, Darragh O'Sullivan for A. Smullen, Tim Scanlan. We would urge all our supporters to be in Ashford this Saturday to cheer on this fantastic young bunch of lads. On Sunday, our minor hurling team lost to Carnew by 4-12 to 0-5 in the semi-final of the championship in Arklow yesterday. However, we wouldn't read too much into this defeat as many of the lads were unavailable after Saturday's minor football victory. We will now play Arklow Rocks in a runners-up 'wildcard' game which could give us a 'trapdoor' entry back into the minor final. The under-16 hurlers had a great victory over Michael Dwyers in the league semi-final in Avoca on Sunday afternoon last. Unjustly forced to play this match, the depleted St Pat's team gave as spirited and determined a performance as ever seen from a group of players. Some were playing their third game in 24 hours but all 17 who togged out gave their all and overcame the team from the west with determination and no measure of skill making up for their tiredness and the absence of some key players. After a very tight first half and having played with the wind, we led by just three points at half-time. However, we pulled away in the second half to win by 5-7 to 2-4 with the two goals for Dwyers coming in the last minute. As all lads played until they dropped (literally in one case) it would not be fair to single out anyone for special mention. The following 17 were all heroes: J. Connors, D. Naughton, C. Kavanagh (1-1), R. Dover, E. Doyle, J. Parle, P. Hogan, A. Tiernan (0-2), S. Corcoran (0-1), G. Sinnott, J. O'Brien (1-1), D. Finnerty, J. O'Brien, C. Naughton, A. O'Brien (1-0), D. O'Sullivan (2-2), D. Byrne. This team now has the chance to complete the championship/league double and hopefully we will get a fair chance to field a full strength team and unexhausted team against Carnew in the final. Well done to the under-12 hurlers who put up a great performance in overcoming Glenealy by 5-3 to 4-0 to qualify for the league final. Mark Kavanagh had an outstanding game in goal and others to shine were Scott Clarke, Richard Mannion, Patrick Roche, Jonathan Carton, and Niall Earls. The under-13 Feile football team are in action this weekend in the semi-final of the Feile against St Joseph's - details not advised at time of going to press. All players should check with Bryan Doyle or John Dowling (0404-67373) for details. The under-14 league hurling final against Carnew will also take place this weekend. Again, no details available going to press - check with Eugene Doyle or Andrew Cornyn. There was no jackpot winner in the club lotto draw last weekend - numbers drawn were 3, 4, 6, and 9 and the bonus was 7. Nine people matched three winners and received £23 each. Don't forget progressive 45s start again tomorrow (Friday) evening at 9.30pm in the clubhouse. Christmas turkeys are on offer for the winners. Is it not the case, turkeys playing for turkeys?!! Best of luck to the county football team who play Westmeath in Mullingar this weekend (remember the tunnel, and I don't mean the nightclub in Arklow) in their last National Football League game before the Christmas break. Things didn't go well last weekend in the All-Ireland 'B' final against Fermanagh but hopefully we will get good result on Sunday. Certainly, this group of players and management team deserve a little bit of luck that may be going around. Late news: The Under 14 hurlers play Carnew Emmets in the final of the Co. League this Saturday, 25th Nov at 1.30 in Tinahely. Players are asked to meet at the Old Forge at 12.00 noon. Contact eugene Doyle at 69618 or 086-2703360 for confirmation or if there is a problem. Question time: 1. Who scored Armagh's late equaliser in this year's All-Ireland drawn football semi-final? 2. 'The Pat Mitchell Corner' The first ever All-Ireland intermediate hurling semi-finals were played in 1966. Who were the participants? Last week's answers: 1. Fermanagh (Tracey Concrete), Monaghan (JG Kelly Supplies) and Louth (AIBP). 2. The years and teams were scrambled - all three teams lost in the All-Ireland under-14 Feile final - Rathnew in 1980, Baltinglass in 1984 and St Fiachs in 1990 and this time I caught the great man out!! RATHNEW Hard luck to our county senior team who lost to Fermanagh in the All-Ireland 'B' final on Sunday last at Navan. Anyone who still hasn't purchased a ticket for our big development draw can contact Patrick Doyle on 68718 or 087-2373489 or Anthony Doyle at 67482. There was no jackpot winner in the GAA lotto last weekend and the numbers drawn were 4, 5, 12 and 25 and the bonus number was 22. Five people matched three numbers and they were Anne and D., John Davis, Kyle Ryan, Betty Kavanagh, and John Manley. The draw was held in Rathnew House on Sunday night last. This week's draw will be held in Fitzpatrick's Lounge on Sunday night next at 10.30pm. The jackpot now stands at £2,900. KILBRIDE The AGM will take place on Friday, November 24, at 9pm in Kilbride hall. Anyone with an interest in the club should attend the AGM tomorrow. We hear that Mick Bealin has been thruogh an extensive haircut so perhaps he's shaping up for one of the top jobs! The hall will be the place to be again on Wednesday night, November 29, for our juvenile presentation night and for the official launch of the club's website. Team mentors should ensure that all players are aware and hopefully present on the night. The starting time is 7.30pm. The Kilbride under-14 girls travelled to Bray on Sunday last for the semi-final of the championship against Bray Emmets. Two points apiece from Carol Reddy and Aisling Freehill gave the Kilbride girls a one-point lead at half-time. The second half could have went either way but for strong winds which favoured the Bray team. But even against the wind, the Kilbride girls kept their heads up and fought on. The match was heading for a draw but in the final minutes Bray got a lucky goal and added a further two points to win the match on a scoreline of 1-6 to 0-4. Kilbride: Grace Haughin, Donna Ryall, Taragh Reddy, Michelle Byrne, Cathy McEnroe, Deirdre O'Riordan, Therese O'Hara, Aisling Freehill, Grainne Byrne, Grainne O'Riordan, Sinead Craul, Caroline Ryall, Michelle Jones, Carol Reddy, Anna Craul. Unfortunately we couldn't muster a team for Scor na nOg last week, perhaps senior Scor will see a better effort. The oldest group of juvenile hurlers may have a match this weekend. Details locally. Hard luck to the minors from Blessington and Kilbride who went down to Newtown last Saturday in Ashford. As this is the final set of notes before the AGM, the outgoing committee would like to thank the Wicklow People for the opportunity to post our notes every week and a special thanks to all who read the notes with interest, wherever you may be. The Kilbride under-10 footballers play Leixlip on Saturday and the bus leaves from the school at 9.30am. The girls' under-14 team play this weekend in the plate final against Blessington. Venue TBA. Anyone with an interest in coaching young hurlers or footballers should make themselves known to the committee. They would be more than welcome. Email us at kilbridegaa
eircom.net. Training for ladies is at 8pm on Wednesdays in the pitch. EIRE OG, GREYSTONES History was made last weekend when our under-12 hurlers won the county 'B' hurling championship in front of a large crowd in Glenealy. This was the first hurling championship ever won by Eire Og at any grade. On the day the team proved too strong for their opponents Avondale and won comfortably by a scoreline of 9-4 to 0-4. Scorers for Eire Og were P. Martin 1-2, P. Sutton 3-0, L. Browne 2-0, K. Flynn 1-2, D. Hayden 1-0, and P. Byrne 1-0. Hard luck to Avondale who never stopped trying in a very sporting game refereed by J. O'Shaughnessy. The hard work of Colm Gaskin, Brendan Cuddihy, Con O Suilleabhain, and all the ladies has been well-rewarded by this memorable victory. On Sunday morning our intermediate team went down to Bray while later on in the afternoon the ladies' team recorded a well-deserved draw against Valleymount with a last minute goal by L. Mitchell. BALLYMANUS Ballymanus football club extends deepest sympathy to the Whelan and extended families on their recent bereavement. Consequently, the AGM was cancelled as a mark of respect. It will now take place on Sunday, December 3, at 6pm. Everybody interested is welcome to attend and members are reminded to bring their nomination papers with them. In Scor na nOg last weekend, Ballymanus were represented in the solo singing by Caitriona Byrne, the recitation by Patrick Byrne and the quiz by Cathal Doyle, Brendan Doyle and Donal Murphy. Congratulations to Patrick and the quiz team who will now represent Wicklow in Offaly in the next competition. HOLLYWOOD Mick Reid's Lounge in Blessington is the place to be this Friday night, November 24, for our monster auction. A large selection of interesting items has already been received. The committee are very confident of a good turnout of supporters and friends alike. A good night is guaranteed - don't forget your chequebook. DONARD-GLEN It was down to the social side of the football club on Friday night when a very enjoyable dinner dance was held in Poulaphouca House. It was a great night for all the players in the club with the intermediate team receiving their championship medals and the junior team getting their west league medals from county chairman Mick Hagan. Speech of the night was undoubtedly that of Brian 'Chick' Kilcoyne who mentioned nearly everyone in the club. When he retires from football life he can become a great competition. Mention was also made of our small schools team who started the ball rolling with Donard's first win in this competition since 1993. Also, the parish under-12 team who won the championship. Over the weekend, the parish minor team were well beaten by St Pat's in the semi-final of the championship and the under-11 team were beaten in the Allen Cup final. Our county team were a big disappointment in the All-Ireland 'B' final when they were outclassed in every area of the field by a rampant Fermanagh team. I am afraid that our two men Shane O'Neill and Colm Toomey, are not going to taste intercounty success this season to add to their club successes. KNOCKANANNA The club's AGM will be held in the community hall at 8.30pm sharp, preceded by mass for the deceased members of the club at 7.30pm. The team had a great win in the semi-final of the Carter Cup on Sautrday in Avoca, by 3-7 to 0-10. The final will take place this Saturday against Carnew at a venue to be arranged. Our sympathy is extended to the members of the Foley and Whelan families on their recent bereavements. Saturday, Nov 25. At Ashford: U-13 Football Feile at 1.00p.m.; St. Patricks v St. Josephs; Minor Football Championship Final at 2.30p.m.; St. Patricks v Newtown, D. Peppard. Linesmen; P. Bracken and E.O' Brien; Ashford umpires. At Kilmacanogue: Division Three Football Play-Off at 2.30p.m.; Newtown v Enniskerry; Off. At Tinahely: Carter Cup South/East Final at 2.30 p.m.; Knockanna v Carnew, J. Lawlor. Sunday, Nov 26. At Mullingar: NFL at 2.00 p.m.; Westmeath v Wicklow, G Lynch. At Knockanna: Division Four West Play-Off ET at 11a.m.; Baltinglass v Dunlavin, L. Cullen. At Tinahely: Division Four B Play-Off ET at 11a.m.; Donard/Glen v Rathnew, J. Lawlor. North/East Winter League: All game at 10.30a.m. sharp; Bray Emmetts v Roundwood A, P. Bracken; Newtown v Roundwood B, B. Morgan and Kilmacanogue v Eire Og, A. Doyle. Saturday, Dec 2. At Pearse Park, Arklow: Junior A Hurling Championship Final at 2.30p.m.; Carnew v Rathnew, E. Doherty. Linemen; J. Cummins and E. Leonard; Arklow Rocks Umpires. At Kilmacanogue: Division Three Football Play-Off at 2.30p.m.; Newtown v Enniskerry, B. Morgan. Sunday, Dec 3. At Blessington: U-21 Football Hastings League at TBA; WIcklow v Tipperary. North/East Winter Football League: All games at 11a.m. sharp; Roundwood A v Roundwood B, P. Bracken; Bray Emmetts v Kilmacanogue, A. Doyle and Newtown v Eire Og, T. McLaughlin. At TBA: Division Four Semi-Finals, both games at 11.00a.m.; Annacurra v Donard/Glen or Rathnew and Bray Emmetts v Baltinglass or Dunlavin. Saturday Nov 25. U-16 B Football Championship: Clara v Tinahely or Aughrim Annacurra (2.00). U-14 Division One Hurling Final: Carnew v St. Patricks at Tinahely (1.30). U-13 Hurling Feile Semi Final: Kilcoole v Glenealy (2.00). Sunday, Nov 26. All games at 2.00p.m. At Kilcoole: U-12 Hurling League Final; St. Patricks v Bray Emmetts. At Dunbar Park, Wicklow: U-16 Football B Semi Final; Ashford v Newtown. At Pearse Park, Arklow: U-14 Division Two League Hurling Final; Fergal Og v Glenealy. Saturday, Dec 2. All games at 2.00p.m unless stated. U-13 Football Feile Semi Finals (12.45): Bray Emmetts v Carnew Emmetts and St. Patricks v St. Josephs. U-16 Football B Championship Final. At Pearse Park, Arklow: U-16 Division One Hurling League Final; St. Patricks v Carnew Emmetts. Sunday, Dec 3. U-13 Feile Hurling Semi Final: St. Patricks v Michael Dwyers. It's back to the Mullingar tunnel this Sunday for Wicklow's footballers as they attempt to get their season back on track after two disappointing defeats. A heavy loss to Fermanagh was the result of Wicklow's trip to Navan for the All-Ireland 'B' final and, allied to the previous week's game against Armagh when they lost narrowly in the league, it's a patch of form which must be causing concern to manager Moses Coffey and his selectors. Sunday's game against Westmeath is the last competitive match before Christmas so it's important, therefore, that the Garden County come away from Mullingar with victory under their belts. Then the management and players can relax over the break in the knowledge that their league campaign is still on track. 'It was disappointing last Sunday', admitted Moses Coffey this week. 'But we have a comparatively new, young team and the oldest player on the team is 28. Fermanagh are a very seasoned team and were very strong physically and just too good for us on the day.' Mosey pointed out that Fermanagh were beaten by just a point in the championship last season by the eventual Ulster champions, Armagh. 'They got a good start against us on Sunday and after that everything seemed to go right for them.' He agreed that it a win is highly desirable next Sunday against Westmeath, but cautioned against any 'win or bust' mentality on the part of the supporters. 'Obviously it would be nice to get the win but it won't be the end of the world either if we don't.' There's little mention either of the infamous 'tunnel incident' of 1999 which caused so much furore, and Wicklow are keen to put that out of their minds when it comes to meeting Westmeath. 'We knew this would be a tough game in the league as soon as the draw was made and that's all we're thinking about. This match and the away games against Armagh and Cork were always going to be very hard.' The main focus of Wicklow's attention is next year's championship and while a good showing in the league would be a timely confidence-boost, the manager is currently using the competitive matches to blood the younger members of the panel. 'You can play all the challenge games you like but you have to have competitive play as well for them. After the league breaks on Sunday we'll also have the O'Byrne Cup after Christmas and hopefully we can get a few matches out of that to give the players a run.' A full turnout of players turned up for training on Tuesday night and, although there are a few minor injury worries, Coffey is hoping that his full-strength team will be playing on Sunday. Those with knocks include Tommy Gill (back), Shane O'Neill (nose), Ronan Coffey (ankle), and Keith Byrne (flu) but, hopefully, they will all be able to take their place in the starting 15. All matches relating Wicklow and District Schoolboys League (WDSL) teams in National Cup competitions were called off last weekend pending an arbitration hearing between the Schoolboy Football Association of Ireland (SFAI) and the WDSL. The Executive Committee of WDSL had threatened to seek an injunction last week to have all games on Saturday and Sunday (November 18th and 19th) stopped after it was revealed that some walk overs had been handed out against WDSL sides without their knowledge. Under FAI rule 28, both the WDSL and SFAI must now select three arbitrators of their choosing from list provided by the Football Association of Ireland (FAI), starting last Wednesday November 15th, for the hearing to be convened. WDSL Secretary Aodhan O'Donoghue received notification of this last Monday (November 20th) from the FAI's Chief Executive Bernard O'Byrne. But Mr. O'Byrne's letter (dated November 15th) did not include the list of arbitrators. Up to early afternoon on Wednesday November 22nd, Mr. O'Donoghue still had not received the list. It is believed that the WDSL had up to the 22nd to supply their nominees. If both parties cannot agree a suitable arbitrator then the President of Incorporated Law Society will pick the arbitrator. Part of the SFAI Executive Council's alleged suspension of the WDSL, which came into force on October 31st, for their alleged failure to supply all Greystones United teams with matches was that all WDSL teams would become ineligible to take part in the National Cup's. In the letter to FAI, the WDSL Executive Committee asked the FAI's Chief Executive Bernard O'Byrne to intervene and have what they considered a 'gross injustice' halted. They also insist that SFAI have suspended them despite the fact the WDSL claim to have complied with all SFAI instructions. The second round series of games in under 12 Norton, under 13 Troy, under 14 Goodson and under 15 Evans Cup's were originally down for decision on the week ending Sunday October 29th. All fixtures in those competitions in which Wicklow sides were to involved were called off. No WDSL teams were down to be involved in SFAI fixtures from last weekend. It is understood that Greystones United will be seeking to clarify the terms of reference at the arbitration. And if need be, may be represented in some form at the hearing. It is believed that all Wicklow clubs will be brought up to speed on events on at the monthly management meeting of the WDSL on Thursday (November 24th) at the Ostean Beag (The Tunnel) in Arklow. The SFAI Council are scheduled to have an Executive meeting this coming Saturday (November 24th) at the AUL Complex in Clonshaugh. The WDSL situation is expected to be on the agenda. 
