sport football
{  
    March 30 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/sport/other-sports/kilruane-macdonaghs-27447177.html }
Tournament:  The final of the Billy OMeara Tournament was played last Saturday. Result: Drom 3-5 Kilruane MacDonaghs 2-4. MacDonaghs played with the wind in the first half and had a six point lead at the interval. In the second half Drom made better use of their chances an Tournament: The final of the Billy O’Meara Tournament was played last Saturday. Result: Drom 3-5 Kilruane MacDonaghs 2-4. MacDonaghs played with the wind in the first half and had a six point lead at the interval. In the second half Drom made better use of their chances and emerged four point winners. Phyllis O’Meara presented the cup to the Drom captain Daniel De Burca. Team: Pat Conway, Padraig Kelly, Gavin McAvinchey, Freddie Williams, Ger Corcoran, Eoin Hogan, Kevin Ryan, Seamus Hennessy (0-1), Liam Gibson, Jonathan Cahill, Luke Williams, Jason Darcy, Michael Costello (2-0), Shane Quinlan (0-2) and Thomas Williams (0-1). Sub: Brian O’Meara. In the play-off for third place Moycarkey defeated Burgess. Thanks to Liam Hogan and Dan Darcy who acted as referees. Plate Final: In the final of the plate football final a very young Kilruane N.S. gave a very good account of themselves before losing out to Lorrha N.S. on a 4-4 to 2-2 scoreline. The issue was in doubt right up to the final minutes with a very skillful Kilruane team battling away to the end. Team: Eoin Finn, Martin O’Meara, Padraig Kelly (cpt.), Eoin Williams, Ann Dwan, Pat Conway (2-1), Cian Williams (0-1), Morgan Conway, Timothy Walsh, Ann-Marie Quinlan and David Reddan. Subs: Sean Kelly and Michael Elebert.  Mini-Sevens: Cloughjordan and Kilruane schools combined to enter a team in the Girls football mini-sevens. They travelled to Littleton and defeated the host team to qualifty for the county final on a 1-1 to 0-3 scoreline. After playing with the wind in the first half Cloughjordan/Kilruane were on level terms with each side scoring a point. The omens did not look good when Littleton edged into a two point lead. The girls fought spiritedly against the wind and Ann Dwan crashed home a goal to book a place in the county final. Team: Louise Fleming, Marie Ryan, Jennifer Banaghan, Niamh Williams, Ann Dwan (1-1), Laura  Dooley and Ann Marie Quinlan. Sub: Laura Farrell. U/12 Football: The U/12 footballers first game is away to Moneygall on April 19th. Other teams in the gr oup are Templederry, Silvermines and Ballina. U/14 Football: The U/14 footballers are at home to Nenagh on April 24th. Other teams in the group are Burgess and Inane Rovers. U/16 Football: The U/16 footballers will be the first juvenile team into competitive action when they are home to Borris-Ileigh on April 8th. Other teams in the group are Ballina, Nenagh and Inane Rovers. Membership: Membership is now due and should be paid immediately. Adults a15 and juveniles a5. Munster Final: Congratulations to Ray McLoughney who lined out with Borrisokane C.C. who defeated Roscrea C.C. in the Munster Junior Hurling final played in Nenagh last week. Congratulations: The club extends its congratulations to Fr. Enda Burke who recently celebrated the 40th Anniversary of his ordination to the priesthood. 50th Anniversary: This year marks the 50th Anniversary of Kilraune MacDonaghs first ever North Minor Hurling title won in 1952. They had victories over Kildangan, Lorrha and Eire Og to claim the title. The team was: Paddy Murray (cpt), Padge Ryan, Sean Deane, Des Gaynor, Paddy Ryan, Jimmy Gibson, Alfie Kennedy, Mick Fahy, Joe Burns, Pat Williams, Bob O’Leary, Michael Ryan, Hubert Killackey, Peter Conway, Ger Hogan. The subs were Tommy O’Brien, John Ryan (Swanton), Hubert Lynch, Tony Grace, Sean Dwyer, Kevin Gaynor, Pierce O’Leary. The team mentors were Fr. Michael O’Donoghue and Con Heffernan.  Colleges Hurling: David Lawlor scored six points for Galway/Mayo I.T. who were defeated by U.C.G. in the All-Ireland Intermediate hurling semi-final on 0-12 to 0-11 scoreline.  MONEYGALL Golf Classic: Our second Golf Classic will be held in Roscrea Golf Club on Saturday the 22nd of June next. North Semi-Final: Moneygall 1-7 Templederry 0-7 in Borrisoleigh. Team and scoreres: Paraic Greene, Paul Smyth, Thomas Harney, Ger Ryan, David Gleeson, Michael Ryan, Michael Kirwan, Paddy Fanning, Willie Greene 0-1, Derek O’Meara 1-0, Willie Maher, Billy McCormack, Donal Doughan 0-1, Liam O’Meara 0-5, Michael Bergin. Well done to all concerned on a great victory which qualified them for the North Final against Borrisokane. This match will probably takes place next weekend. Please check fixture list. Winning Start: Moneygall 4-8 Templederry 2-9 (3-4 to 0-2) in St. Flannan’s Park. Well done to our senior team and their selectors on a winning start to the County league last Sunday. Team and scorers: Sean McCormack, Francis Gleeson, Sean Kennedy, Donie Guilfoyle, Eamon Troy, Eoin Troy (cpt.), Michael Ryan, John Doughan 1-0 (pen.), Tomas Toohey, Denis Dwyer 0-5 (4fs), Noel Ryan, Diarmaid Kennedy 1-0, Barry Ryan 0-1, Mark Keeshan 1-1, Donal Doughan 1-0. Subs: All second half- 16m Brian Gleeson for Francis, 23m Willie Greene 0-1 for Noel Ryan and 28m Paddy Fanning for John Doughan. In the first half we missed a lot of scores. We gave away twenty one frees while Templederry gave away fourteen frees. Eoin Troy is Senior Hurling Captain with Mark Keeshan as Vice-captain. Thanks to all those who helped to prepare the pitch for Sunday’s game. Membership: Players on all teams are reminded to pay their membership as soon as possible to any selector or member of the club committee. Juveniles are reminded that their membership will cost a5 for the year. News: John King and Michael Cahill attended the Tipperary U/14 hurling school of excellence on Saturday while Philip Fannng and Thomas Devereux attended the U/15 one. Donal Doughal and Michael Ryan are attending U/21 Trials at the moment. Jimmy Maher is the club’s coaching officer. Club Meeting: Our next Club Meeting will be on Thursday night April the 4th at 9 p.m. in the G.A.A. Centre.  Sympathy: The club wish to extend their sympathy to the families, relatives and friends of the late Mrs. Peg. Burns Emill and the late Paddy McCormack Rathenny.  NENAGH EIRE OG McDonagh Park: McDonagh Park was the venue on Sunday last for the Tipperary v. Derry National Hurling league game. The game resulted in an easy victory for Tipperary. Our thanks to all those who assisted over the weekend with preparations for the game. County League: Our senior hurlers were defeated by Borrisoleigh in McDonagh Park on Saturday last in the county senior hurling league. Eire Og started slowly and trailed by three points before getting on top to lead by two points after twenty five minutes but in the next twenty minutes of the game many good chances went astray. A Borrisoleigh goal ten minutes from time swayed the game in their favour and at the final we trailed by seven points. Intermediate League: The first round of the North Tipp Intermediate league will take place next weekend when we travel to Puckane to play Kildangan. This game will take place on Friday at 5 o’clock. Congratulations: to Karl Cashen who was the winner of a127 in the lotto section of the County Board Draw. The new county board draw will commence in a month’s time and anybody wishing to join at a cost of a8 per month can do so by contacting either the sports complex or any of the club’s committee. Insurance: Players are advised that the GAA voluntary insurance is now available at a cost of a25. After the first week players are covered for up to 28 weeks. Anybody wishing to get further details can do so by contacting the club secretary Eamonn Brennan.  Juvenile Trip: Our under 12 hurlers will travel to Birr on Saturday next for the Tipperary v. Offaly National Hurling league game.  KILDANGAN Fun Match: The juniors against the Intermediates fun match was very successful on Sunday. It was great to see the return of ‘veteran’ Donal Flannery for the occasion, who played a blinder in goals. There was a brilliant atmosphere and great craic was had by all especially the spectators. The lads then went to McGrath’s to watch the video of the game which was very entertaining. Thanks to everybody who bought lines and sponsored prizes. The money raised on the occasion will go along way towards the fast approaching weekend away. Fixtures: Intermediate hurling league v. Nenagh on Good Friday 29th March at 5 p.m. in Puckane.  Table Quiz: The hurlers are holding a Table Quiz in the Thatched Cottage Ballycommon on Thursday 28th March to raise money for their weekend away. Your support would be greatly appreciated.  NEWPORT Under 21 Football A: The under 21 footballers went down to Ballinahinch on Saturday last by a single point. Ballinahinch were certainly hungrier for victory than Newport who wasted a number of chances particularly goal chances throughout the game. Ballinahinch play Ballina in Newport on this Friday at 5.00pm. Burgess are through ot the final. We wish Ballinahinch the best of luck in the remainder of the competition. Under 21 B Hurling: The competition will commence on week ending April 21st. Intermediate Hurling League: We have play a number of challenge games in the competition. Our first round game is away to Toomevara on April 14th. Minor Football County: The county minor footballers will play Limerick in Fermoy on Saturday next. Minor Football: The first round takes place on April 5th V Nenagh in Kilcolman.@6.30pm. Scor: Newport were represented at the North Final of the Scor competition on Friday night last in Portroe in Figure Dancing, Instrumental Music and Ballad Group. The figure dancing group and ballad group were placed second. Congratulations to all involved. Forecasting Cards: The forcasting cards are currently on sale throughout the parish. There is an opportunity for a 10,000 euro win. Membership Package: The membership package is currently on sale. Closing date May 1st. Applications to Martin Guilfoyle Registrar. Sympathy: The club extends sympathy to the Ryan (B) family Barna and the Ryan (C) and Collins families on their recent bereavements.  BEAL AN ATHA Ballina Intermediate Hurlers: open their league campaign this weekend with a home game against Knockshegowna. Best of luck to Manager Pat Sheehy, selectors Noel O’Brien and Jerry McKeogh and the Intermediate panel. (see fixtures for details). The U/21 footballers ar playing this coming weekend against Ballinahinch (again see fixtures). Prospective members of the club are reminded that membership will shortly be closing for the year. You are encouaged to pay your sub. as soon as possible to treasurer T.J. McGrath, or Registrar S. Devane a15 Adults and a5 students.  Voluntary Insurance for players is also due at a25. The Juvenile Club: Training on Saturday morning and generally club activities are in full operation again. Fixtures for the Juveniles will be available this week. U/16 North Hurling team: best wishes to Martin McKeogh, Shane O’Brien and Eoin Sheehy all of whom are on the North U/16 panel for the Munster Divisional championship which is due to begin next week. Thomas Collins continues to train with the Co. Minor hurling panel.  TEMPLEDERRY Table Quiz: A Table Quiz for Juveniles will be held in the Fr. Kenyon Centre Good Friday night 29th March, starting at 8.30 p.m. There will be separate competitions for U/12’s, U/14’s and U/16’s. All those within those age groups are welcome to participate. This will be followed by the annual Easter Raffle. 1st prize - Portable Television Set, 2nd prize - New Tipperary Jersey inscribed with Enfer Scientific and 3rd prize - a50 Sports Voucher. There will be two special prizes for those who have joined the club Lotto . Feile: Our U/14 hurlers will play Burgess this Friday 29th March in the Nth. Tipp. U/14 Feile na nGael competition. It will be played on Good Friday at 11.00 a.m. in Kilcoleman. Football: The N. Tipp Football championship will kick off on Friday 12th April when our U /12’s play Moneygall in Templederry. Schools: Templederry N.S. were beaten by Carrig N.S. in the N. Tipp Section B. Schools championship semi-final recently. Carrig went down to Roscrea in the final by two points. Coaching: A total of 15 coaches from the club finished the foundation coaching course in the Hall reccently. Our thanks to Dinny Maher who gave the course and those who took part in the course.  Training: Training for U/12’s on Tuesday nights and for U/12’s and U/14’s and U/16’s on Saturday mornings.  Senior Hurling: We were defeated 4-8 to 2-9 by Moneygall in the first round of the county league on Sunday morning last in Moneygall. Paul Ryan had our first point from a free after eleven minutes by which time Moneygall had 1-2 on the board. They continued to dominate and led 3-4 to 0-2 at half time. We started the second half strongly and outscored them 2-4 to 0-1 to leave just two points between the sides with fifteen minutes left. However, Moneygall came back into the game scoring a goal and a point in quick succession and went on to record a five point victory. The team was: Jimmy Collins, Daniel Madden, Gerard Ryan (cpt.), Pat Minogue,  John Harkin, Diarmuid Corcoran, Donal Gleeson, Seamus O’Leary, Donie Kennedy, Padraig Ryan (c), Paul Ryan 1-6 frees, John Hogan, J.J. Fahey, Timmy Minogue 1-2, Seamus Kennedy 0-1. Subs used Thomas Coughlan, Matthew Ryan (m), Alan Ryan (K). U/21 Football: We were defeated 1-7 to 0-7 by Moneygall in the North semi-final on Saturday last in Borris-Ileigh. The team was: Alan Ryan, Neil Ryan, Diarmuid Corcoran, Sean McLoughney, Thomas Coughlan, John Murphy, John Harkin, Seamus O’Leary, Padraig Ryan (O), James Hogan, Timmy Minogue, J.J. Fahey 0-6, Daniel Shanahan, Paudie Ryan 0-1, Michael Ryan. Membership: Membership should be paid to treasurer Dan Madden as soon as possible. U/21 Hurling: We have been drawn to play Eire Og Nenagh in the first round of the ‘A’ championship. This will be played on the weekend of 21st April and is a straight knockout competition. Minor Hurling: The minor ‘A’ championship consists of one group of five teams and one group of four. It will be run on a league system with the top teams in each group straight into the semi finals with the second and third teams contesting quarter finals. We are in the four team group along with Burgess, Ballina and Roscrea. Junior Hurling: We have been drawn in a group containing Lorrha, Newport, Silvermines and Kildangan in the North League. The other group contains Burgess, Kilruane, Ballina, Borrisokane, Ballinahinch and Toomevara. Two teams qualify from each group for semi-finals.  Minor Football: We have been provisionally fixed to play Burgess in Newport in the first round of the championship on Monday 8th April. Ballina and Borris-Ileigh are the other teams in the group with two to qualify for the semi-finals.  Junior Football: We have been drawn to play Ballinahinch in the first round of the championship.  Race Night: We are looking forward to your support for our Race Night which takes place in Michael Hogan’s on Friday night 5th April.  PORTROE Co. Senior League: Our senior hurlers made a winning start to their county league campaign when they defeated a determined Knockavilla side in Dundrum on Sunday last. Portroe had a winning margin of six points at the final whistle after a tough and exciting game. This was a very encouraging start to the year and we urge all players to keep up their committment to training. The team lined out as follows: Chris Madden, John Hogan, Noel O’Halloran, Nicky Ryan, Joe Sexton, Liam Sheedy, Padraigh Hickey, John Moloney, Shane Creamer, Kevin Shinnors, Denny Hogan, Pat Sexton, Darren Gleeson, John Ryan, Patrick Conroy. Subs. used: John Hogan (S) for Kevin Shinnors, Padraig Quinn for Patrick Conroy. Scorers: D. Hogan 1-3, J. Ryan 1-2, D. Gleeson 4 points (3 frees), Liam Sheedy 1 point (free) and Kevin Shinnors 1 point. Final score was Portroe 2-11, Knockavilla 11 points.  Table Quiz: The annual Scor Table Quiz takes place in the parish hall on Good Friday night at 9.30 p.m. There will be a special section for under 16 and teas will be served. A fun night out for all the family. Scor na bPaisti: A record crowd witnessed a great nights entertainment on Friday night last at the North Tipp finals of Scor na bPaisti. We congratulate Orla O’Sullivan who won the recitation and thank our novelty act team and set dancers for their part in what was surely one of the very best scors held in the division. We would also like to thank all who helped in any way to make the night such a resounding success. The county final will be in Cashel on Friday 12th April. Lotto: Our lucky dip winners this week were P.J. O’Donnell Portroe, and Shane Cody, Garrykennedy.  Derry Trip: We make our eagerly awaited trip to Steelstown  in Derry on the weekend 5th-7th April. The coach will depart on Friday morning and return on Sunday evening. All players will be notified of accommodation etc. during the coming week. NewsFayre Indoor Leagues: The leagues continue inthe hall on Tuesday night next at 6.45 p.m. and the finals take place on Monday night April 8th. Challenge: We played Roscrea in an U/14 challenge on Saturday evening last in the local field. We thank Roscrea for travelling to play us. Congratulations: The juvenile club would like to congratulate all the boys and girls from the parish who made their confirmation during the past week. Camogie Raffle Night: the camogie club held their annual Easter draw on Saturday night next in the Arra Inn. The club caters for all age groups and are deserving of great support for what is always a great Easter night out.  BORRISOKANE Training: Intermediate players on Tues/Friday nights. Fixtures: Intermediate Hurlers v. Toomevara Sunday 31/3/02 in Borrisokane at 3 p.m. U/21 Football Final: Borrisokane v. Moneygall is on this Friday in Cloughjordan at 5 p.m. Meet on the bridge at 4.15 p.m. Results: Intermediate hurlers played Drumcullen on Sunday morning. We had a poor turn out. 
News: Next committee meeting on Tuesday 2nd April. All committee members are requested to attend. Club membership is now due. Contact Joe Murphy or club officers. Juveniles: Cathal Daly and Conor Forde represented the club at U/14 H School of Excellence last weekend. Robert Davis and Dwayne Power attended the U/15H school.  Training: continues for all the juvenile teams in the field. Fixtures for all the teams will be availalbe next week.  A special welcome to all the U/10’s training on Saturday mornings 10.45 a.m. - 12.00 noon. Keep up the good work.  No Lotto jackpot won this week. Next weeks jackpot is a6,700 and raw will take place in The Yanks.  BALLINAHINCH Juvenile: We are presently trying to join with another club for the under 12 and under 14 championship this year. Unfortunately we do not have enough players to field a team on our own. Under 21 Football Replay: The replay of the under 21 championship game with Newport last weekend turned out to be another classic. The match last Saturday was played in excellent conditions and in a well prepared field. Short two players from the drawn match and welcoming back another two, Newport started the game well on top at midfield. Ballinahinch playing with determination and commitment came back into the game and going into 2 minutes of injury time, we drew level with a 45. In a final attack, Victor Balfry carried the ball in from the wing to find Micheal Gleeson who was fouled resulting in a penalty for us. Alan Kelly coolly slotted the ball over the bar for a result that will be talked about for a long time to come. Final score 0-9 to 1-5. We now play Ballina in the semi final on this Friday in Newport at 5pm. Team: Ralph Ryan, John Doheny, Alan Kelly(0-2 F), Marcus Ryan, Michael Fitzgerald, Kieran Kennedy, Paudie Berkery, Ger Griffin(0-2F), Matthew Kennedy, Shane McGrath(0-3, 0-2F), Matthew Fahy, Victor Balfry, Michael Lynch, Eoin O'Sullivan(0-2), Danial Lyons. Subs: Dermot Gleeson for D Lyons, Michael Gleeson for M Lynch, Stephen McNamara, John Shinnors, Shane Fitzgerald, Michael Ryan. Welcome: We would like to welcome our new player Victor Balfry, Shallee to the club. He wore the club colours for the first time in the under 21 football games and showed he has potential with the big ball as well as being a hurler. Training: Training for the junior hurlers commences on this Monday 1 April. Details will be passed on to all players.. Easter Draw: The annual draw for the weekend away and large Easter egg will take place on this Wednesday 27 at the Juvenile Disco in Killoscully hall. All card holders to requested to hand in cards before the event Bereavement: The club would like to extend its deepest sympathy to the O’Keefe family, Grawnbeg/Newport, Ryan family Ballinahinch, Farnaigh and Kennedy family, Farnaigh on their recent bereavements. Under 16 Football: We play Lorrha at home in the first round of the under 16 football on April 22. Portroe and Templederry are also in our group. School of Excellent: Jamie Flynn, Tomas Grace, Mark Kelly and Donnacha McGrath attended a hurling training session last Saturday which was held by Paddy Williams and Len Genyor. They will be attending further sessions during the year. Congratulations: To Pete and Maura Bourke on the birth of their baby girl Membership: Please note membership fees are now due for the coming year priced at a20. A special deal of a10 with Tipperary County Draw is also included. All players must be members. Payment to be made to John Carey immediately.  SILVERMINES Fixtures: We have our opening game in the Senior County League on Easter Monday against Galtee Rovers in Dolla at 2 p.m. Also the re-play of the Under 21 Football semi-final against Kilruane will be played this coming weekend. Please check North Board fixtures for details.  TOOMEVARA Senior Hurling: Our Senior Hurlers had their first outing of this years campaign on Saturday evening last the 23rd of March. The opposition was Ballingarry and the final score was Toomevara 2-10 Ballingarry 1-13. Team: W. Ryan, D. O’Meara, D. Brislane, B. McGrath, B. Dunne, A. Ryan, D. Kelly, D. Kennedy, T. Ryan, S. Tynan, K. Dunne, F. Devanney, R. Tynan, Terry Dunne, Paul McGrath. Subs: P. Shanahan. Scorers: Ken Dunne 1-6, Paul McGrath 1-2, Shane Tynan, Terry Dunne 0-1. Best Wishes: The club would like to wish a speedy recovery to David Kennedy who was injured during the game. Parish League: The final of last years Parish league has been re-scheduled for Friday evening the 5th April at 6.00 p.m. The final sees Andy O’Rourke’s team versus Darren Cuddihy’s team. U/21 Training: Training for any of this years U/21’s takes place on Tuesday and Thursday nights at 8.00 p.m. with the Intermediate and Junior teams. U/16 and Minor Training: Training for all our minors and U/16’s will commence on Friday evening next the 29th of March at 7.15 p.m. sharp. All U/16’s and minors are asked to be in attendance. Membership: Membership is now due from all club members and can be paid to any committee member.  Sympathy: The club would like to extend our deepest sympaty to the family and friends of Bridget  Dunne, Middlewalk. Ballycastle Trip: Our friends from Ballycastle, Co. Antrim were in Toomevara over the weekend and had an entertaining stay. The club would like to thank all the households who made this trip possible by putting up our visitors for the night. Our intermediate team played Ballycastle in an entertaining challenge game on Sunday morning. U/14 Challenge: Our U/14’s have a challenge game on this Friday the 29th March at 4.30 p.m. in St. Michael’s Park, Toomevara. All players are asked to attend and Portumna will provide the opposition. Bishopstown Tournament: Our U/14’s will also be partaking in a high quality tournament in Bishopstown Co. Cork on Monday next the 1st of April. The bus will leave for Bishopstown at 8.00 a.m. sharp on Monday morning and all U/14’s are to attend and also to bring a packed lunch. U/12 Tournament: Our U/12’s will play their second game of the Shinrone Tournament at 10 a.m. on Saturday next the 30th of March versus Shinrone. All players are asked to be in Shinrone at 9.30 a.m. sharp. The U/12’s had a good win over a Kilruane Knockshegown combination on Saturday last on a score of 1-7to 2-2.  Intermediate League: The first round of this years Intermediate league takes place on this Sunday the 31st March. The opposition is Borrisokane with the venue also Borrisokane at 3 p.m.  KNOCKSHEGOWNA Challenge game: The Intermediate team played a challenge game against Meelick , Eyrecourt on Saturday evening last in Ballingarry . While most things were satisfactory a lot of basic work will have to be improved on. Training continues as usual on Friday nights in Nenagh . It is hoped to start outdoor training shortly All players will be notified on this by the selectors next week -end. Intermediate league: The club first outing in the North Tipperary League will commence on the last week end in March against Ballina See fixture list for details. Juvenile Bonus Lotto: The juvenile lotto bonus draw is becoming popular and this week Bonus No was 28. The winners were Doris Delahunt,Ballingarry, Albert Rice,Lismacrory, Catriona Murphy, Toomevara and Michael Coleman, Cashel. Membership is coming in gradually It is a reminder to players and intended members to pay their membership as soon as possible. Card Game: The club are holding a Progressive 25 drive in Ballingarry Community Centre on Good Friday night March 29th at 8.45 sharp. It is hoped that all local card players will support this drive. Co. Board Draw: The County Board G.A.A draw has one month left. Our co – ordinator will be calling on all monthly members over the next few weeks. We would be grateful if all members would bring the account up to date before the new draw starts. This will commence on Friday night 10th May in The Ragg Lounge Next years monthly subscription will be 8 euros Raffle: At present the Knockshe Players Fund are holding a raffle for some very good prizes. Tickets are two euro each or 6 for 10 euro Juvenile tournament: The Juvenile U 12 team played their first game in the Shinrone Tournament against Toomevara last Saturday. Well done for a great game on their first outing. While they were beaten by two points , there was a great team effort. Next Saturday the juveniles are playing Roscrea at 11.30 in Shinrone. There is a training session on Wednesday evening at 6pm. All players are requested to attend. The club extends its good wishes to Joseph Cleary (junior) who recently had a knee operation in Dublin.  BUIRGHEAS Imeachtai: I.H.L. Burgess v. Kilruane MacDonaghs on Bank Holiday Monday in Cloughjordan at 3.00 p.m. North U/21 ‘A’ football final on Saturday, April 6th at 6 o’clock. (Check fixtures). Faoi 21: Burgess had a good win over Borrisoleigh in the football “A” semi-final at Dolla on Sunday morning last. Inside 42 seconds Robbie Cremin rocked the net with Noel Gleeson following up with a point. With the aid of persistence from Colm O’Brien, Patrick Tucker goaled. A brace of points from Colm O’Brien and three more from the boot of Noel Gleeson, had Burgess in a commanding position at halftime with 2-6 in the scoreline. Burgess added 1-5 to their tally in the second half the goal coming from a penalty converted by Colm O’Brien, after a foul on Martin Fogarty. Burgess are now in the final for the fourth year in succession, with a title at this grade eluding us thus far. We are assured of stiffer opposition from Ballina or Ballinahinch, who meet in the other semi-final. Best wishes to R. Cremin who plays with Tipp minors against Limerick on Saturday. Team: G. Hogan, F. Hogan, D. Hogan, E. Hogan, D. Maher, S. Maher, N. McDonnell, T. Scroope (0-1), D. O’Brien, R. Cremin (1-0), C. O’Brien (1-2), N. Gleeson (0-6), D. Quinlan, K. McGrath, P. Tucker (1-1), Subs used: N. McGrath, J. Barry (0-1), J. Seymour, A. Seymour, M. Fogarty. Handball: Congratulations to Cian McDonnell, Carrigatoher who won a U/14 North ‘B’ handball title with Youghal handball club recently at Dolla. It is a number of years since this club won a juvenile title. It is encouraging to see a sizeable number of juveniles practising this great game at Kilcommon handball alley. Well done to the coaches for their encouragement and support. Confirmation Day: Congratulations to our hurling, football, camogie and handball players who received their confirmation at Portroe on Friday last. 21st Birthday: Congratulations to Lorraine Gleeson, Carrigatoher, who celebrated her coming of age at Reidy’s Newtown, on Friday night last. In a party atmosphere Burgess camogie star Lorraine and Co. celebrated in style, while big brother John could be relied upon to sing a song or two.  Camogie: The night at the Dogs in Thurles on Saturday night last, in aid of the holiday fund for Tipperary camogie stars, proved a great success. This talented group that brought honours and glory to the county, will travel to the Canaries at the end of this month. Among the prizewinners was Jim Brophy, who won a hamper on his admission ticket. O’Meara’s Hotel: Last week, a landmark of Nenagh town, O’Meara’s Hotel, in Pearse Street, was brought down with the aid of heavy machinery. Many G.A.A. memories evolve from this centre of the town venue. Tipperary senior hurlers tourned America in 1926. When the North representatives returned (incl. Rody Nealon), they were accorded a splendid reception in Nenagh, with O’Meara’s Hotel the centre of activities, from which was flown the Stars and Stripes. Team Manager: Frank McGrath spoke to a big crowd from a window of the hotel and the team were entertained to supper. When Burgess won their first County title, a juvenile hurling title in 1964, they received their medals at a Dinner and Ceili in O’Meara’s hotel on Thursday night, Feb. 18th 1965 with 250 people in attendance. O’Meara’s Hotel, Nenagh was the venue of the Annual Burgess Dinner Dance from 1970 to 1987, with the exception of December 1982 when the club decided to replace their annual Dinner Dance with a supper dance at the Scout’s Hall, but this venture was not a success. The club’s last get together at O’Meara’s Hotel was when our intermediate hurlers had their postmatch meal, after winning the 1993 North final. There were many great days and nights at O’Meara’s Hotel - thanks for the memories. Tipperary Draw: There is just one draw left in the present series. Promoters are reminded to collect outstanding monies immediately. Flag Day: Please support our Flag Day this Holy Thursday. Anyone who can help please contact Mairead D’arcy or Martin Dunne.  Scór na bPaisti: Well done to all our representatives in the North Final on Friday night last in what was a very high standard of entertainment.  ROSCREA Lotto News: This week’s lotto is a3,600. The club thanks everyone for their continued support of the lotto. County Board Draw: Club contact is Jack Pyne at (0505) 22095 and supporting the draws ensures financial help for the local club also. Please support generously and help also the financial running of your own local club. Congrats to Damien Carroll, The Haven and Carmel McMahon, Carraig who both won cash prizes in the recent March draw. The new draw starts in May with the subscription increased to a8 per month, however, there is a similar increase in prizes being given out. Membership: Membership is now due; a20 for all adult players and a10 for non-playing members. Membership is payable to Patsy Carroll and Kevin Moloney jnr. Senior Hurling: The senior hurlers recorded their first victory of the year on Saturday last when they defeated Golden in Golden on the scoreline of 3-7 to 1-9 in the first round of the county league. The team lined out as follows: E.Dunphy, N. O’Connor, B. Carey, J. Ryan, J. Maher, L. England. T. O’Connor, D. Fitzgerald, E. Fitzgerald, B. Brooks (0-3), P. Carroll (0-1), C. Kennedy, M. Ryan (0-1), J. Carroll (3-1), C. Egan, P. Loughnane came on as sub. Training: Training for the senior panel has commenced and continues on this Wednesday and Friday evenings.  Adjourned A.G.M.: Takes place on Thursday the 4th April at 8.00 p.m. in the club pavillion.  LORRHA Lotto: The numbers drawn this week were ??-5-13-26. The match 3 winners were Grainne Maher, Borrisokane and Eleanor Molloy, Portland. The a2,550 jackpot will be drawn for on Sunday night in The Friars Tavern.  We thank you for your support. Sympathy: The club sympathises with the family of the late Teresa Nolan, Kilfadda, who died at the weekend. May she rest in peace. Dancing: Old time dancing will take place in the GAA clubhouse on Sunday night to the music of John and Martin from 10 p.m to 1 a.m. There will be no dance on Good Friday night. Pleae note: our new cooling system will be in operation on Easter Sunday night.  National Schools Football: Congratulations to the combination of Lorrha and Redwood school pupils on winning the football shield trophy beating Kilruane in the final, which was held in Ballingarry last week on a scoreline of 4-4 to 2-2.  Well done to Oliver Duggan and anyone who helped with this team. Team: James Duggan, Eoghan O’Meara, Sean O’Meara, Aiden Hough, Brendan Fogarty, Graham Houlihan, Brian Bugler, Ciaran Duggan, Catherine O’Meara, Diarmuid Mannion and Sinead Ryan. Subs sued were Darren Kennedy and Conor Glynn. Intermediates: On Sunday next at 12 noon Lorrha take on Shannon Rovers in the first round of the league. This match will be played in St. Ruadhans Park, Lorrha and we wish all the very best. We also wish all our supporters a very happy Easter. 
