sport football
{  
    March 29 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/countywide-27359163.html }
CILLARD CAMOGIE CLUB:Training will be next  Sunday 2nd of April ; U-10 + U-12 , 12:15 - 1:30 at Ardfert Sports Field ; U-14 + U-16 , 6:15 at Kilmoyley Sports Field . Any girls who have not already joined are more than welcome!  0863317101The Pat Joe O'Connor Memorial Quiz will take place on Good Friday Night April 14th in Causeway Sports Hall at 9pm. Tables of 4 Adults 20 eu CILLARD CAMOGIE CLUB:Training will be next Sunday 2nd of April ; U-10 + U-12 , 12:15 - 1:30 at Ardfert Sports Field ; U-14 + U-16 , 6:15 at Kilmoyley Sports Field . Any girls who have not already joined are more than welcome! 0863317101 The Pat Joe O'Connor Memorial Quiz will take place on Good Friday Night April 14th in Causeway Sports Hall at 9pm. Tables of 4 Adults 20 euro, Youths 12 euro. All proceeds on the night go to the Chernobyl Choldren's Project. Anyone wishing to sponsor or donate spot prizes are welcome to do so. Ladies Football : The Pat Lawlor Shield campaign suffered a severe setback on Sunday last with a strong defeat by Castleisland Desmonds. Churchill managed to stay in touch in the early stages of this game but Desmonds soon established their superiority. Our mid field never got into the game and forwards simply could not register scores. Against opposition such as this we just have to make every attack count. Having said that, there were notable displays by Andrea O’Sullivan and Jessica McCarthy in particular in defence while Caoimhe Casey on introduction made her presence felt against stiff opposition. Our next game next week is against Na Gaeil. The Under 14 game against Kilcummin was postponed and is rescheduled for 5 pm next Sunday at home. We will also have an under 14 game due against Milltown and this game will probably be on Friday 31 March. Contact Under 14 Trainer for details. FUNDRAISING : Our main fundraising event of the year will take place on 11 June. In a change from last year’s format the main event will be will be a straight final between two ladies teams and two gents teams representing the Oyster, The Tankard. Godleys and the West End. The rule that current players cannot participate will be strictly enforced this year. As well as the football there will be a range of activities to cater for all needs and it looks as if we can build on last years most successful event. As well as the football there will be face painting, bouncy castle, raffles, baked goods, stockade and a range of activities with the emphasis on fun and a bit of craic. Anyone interested in playing (places will be limited) or in helping out generally should contact Sean Bric 086 8146538, Barbara Cosgrove 087 9955290, John Moore 087 9021771, TJ Daly 087 6752150 Helena Williams 086 0564370 or any member of the Ladies Football Committee as soon as possible. 41 DRIVE: Results of last weeks 41 drive at the Tankard were Maura Healy and Joe Locke, Moss Harmon and Madeline O’Keeffe, Anne O’Connor and Eddie O’Connor, Brendie McCarthy and Mark O’Brien. Cards as usual next week. GAA LOTTERY: No winners of jackpot. Lucky dip winners, ?50 D Dwyer, Fenit, ?25 each, Danny Slattery, Fenit, Shean Parker, Talaught, R O’Connor, Lyre. Next draw at West End, Saturday, April 8, 11pm. SENIOR CO LEAGUE: Next game is away to Scartaglin at 2pm on Sunday, April 2. Our minor team defeated St Senans by 4 points in their opening Co league game at Mountcoal. Best for Churchill were C Crowley, man of the match, D Herlihy, G Rolls, B Dillon and D O’Shea. Next game will be this Friday night at Spa Sportsfield at 6.30pm against Cromane/Listry. Our u16 team beat Currow 4-7 to 3-7 in the 2nd Rd of the Castleisland District league. Best for Churchill were P P O’Mahony, D Clinton, C O’Shea, T McCarthy. ICA: The monthly meeting of Spa/Fenit ICa will take place at the Oyster Barn, on Wednesday night,April 5 at 8pm. An image consultant will give a talk on the night. Congrats to Anne Keanrey who goes on to Dublin on April 22 to represent our Guild in the All Ireland final of the brown bread making, sponsoreed by Cainneog. MEETING: The AGM of the Kerry Branch of the Irish Rural Dwellers Assoc will take place at the Manor Inn, Killorglin on Friday, March 31 at 8pm. The guest speakers will be the National Secretary Jim Connolly, Bord Failte Director Paudie O’Shea and Michael O’Regan, the parliamentary correspondent for the Irish Times. Issues for discussion will include, rural depopulation, and planning issues, the occupancy clause, the future of Irish farming, in view of recent prediction in a report from Maynooth College, which indicates that approx 10,000 farmers will be actively engaged in agriculture by 2013, when the single payment scheme will be phased out. The promotion of agri tourism in Kerry, public representatives will be in attendance. Meeting is open to members of the public. SYMPATHY: Is extended to the Hanafin fmaily, Ballygarron, on the death of Maureen Finn, Glentanes, Annascaul, mother of Mary Anne Hanafin, last week. PROGRESSIVE POKER CLASSIC: Will be held in The Tankard on this Friday night, at 8.30pm. Entry fee ?30. Over ?1,500 in prize money, on behalf of Spa Dev Assoc and Community group. BINGO: At Godleys Hotel every Wendesday night at 8pm. Clochan Breanainn PLEAN FAID-THEARMACH Ba mhaith le Comharchumann Forbartha an Leith-Triuigh buiochas a ghabhail le gach einne a thug tacaiocht agus ionchur duinn le linn an treimhse comhairliuchain poibli a bhi ar siul le deanai. Ma ta aon mholtai eile le tabhairt ag einne is feidir teangmhail a dheanamh le Mairin in Oifig an Chomharchumainn Breanainn. CUMANN 500 Beidh an chead tarrach eile ar siul i dTabhairne Murphys Breanainn ar an gCeadaoin 29u Marta. Ta cead mile failte roimh baill nua, costas bliana na 152 euro no 12.70 sa mhi. Ta beag nach 200 ball sa chumann anois agus bionn 5 buaiteoir gach mhi. Ma ta suim agat bheith pairteach i gCumann 500 cuir glaoch ar Mhairin ag 7138137. CUMANN LUATHCHLEAS GAEL - Beidh an cruinniu miosiuil ar siul ar an nDeardaoin an 30u Marta i gCaislean Ghraighre. Cluiche na sinsir le St Pats ar an nDomhnach 2u Aibrean. Cluiche na soirsir sa Neidin ar an Aoine 31u Marta. COISTE NA N-OG Nior thug an da fhoireann faoi 14 an la leo ar an Sathrain seo caite ina gcluichi contae. BAILIUCHAN CLUB SACAR - Bhi bailiuchan ar mhaithe leis an gClub Sacar an Chama ar siul le deanai agus thug daoine go fial flaithiuil, bailiodh 236.54 euro agus mile buiochas le gach einne a thug tacaiocht don bhfeachtas tabhachtach seo. CLUB 500 This months draw will take place in Murphy's Brandon on March 29th. We are currrently drawing close to 200 members and we welcome new members to support this draw which yields 5 winners every month. If you would like to become a member of Club 500 please contact Mairin at 7138137. Anual cost of membership is 127 euro or 12.70 per month. CUMANN LUATHCHLEAS GAEL - Monthly meeting of club takes place this Thursday 30 March in dressing rooms at 8.30pm. Seniors are away to St Pats in County League next Sunday 2 April. Minors play Beaufort at home on Friday evening 31 March. Coiste na nOg: Our 2 U14 teams (boys and girls) suffered heavy defeats last Saturday in their respective county league games. Hopefully both teams can pick themselves up for this weekís fixtures. JUNIOR SOCCER Camp Junior Soccer raised a total of 236.54 in the recent collection, many thanks to all who contributed to this worthy cause. REFUSE COLLECTION from Halla Le Cheile - Please note that the next collection for wheelie bin refuse will be this Thursday and recyclable refuse will be collected on Friday. Co Kerry Hunt The crowds were out in force for the closing meet in Beale which, as to be expected, was a huge success. There was big jumping, dikes, rivers and a beach gallop. Louise on Belle completed their first hunt but whoever recommended Beale for a fist hunt would want talking to. Well done Louise! There were plenty representatives from the area. However Donna Ahern made sure to get into the notes with a side ways fall and an over the head tumble from Bobby. Gerard Leahy tried to go clear jumping in Beale. Funnily enough it didn’t work out so well as there always happened to be a dike at the other side. Of course I believe you that Katie fell again. Speaking of Kates falling there was one Asdee girl sitting pretty in the first dike in full view of the neighbours. Oh the shame! Mothers day was marked on horseback by two of our members Ann Mc Grath and Noelle Keily. Emma Keily was in stitches laughing, missing her chance to catch Jigsaw and show her mum what mothers day is really like. Lauramai behaved herself allowing her mum Ann enjoy the whole day out on Jasper. Ann asked to thank Peggy Quilter for all her babysitting throughout the season. A big thank you to all in Beale who opened and closed the land, as well as to all the many farmers. I was told the entire hunt was a community effort and not to be naming names. Thank you also to Jack J’s bar for the ceol, craic and delicious bacon sandwiches. The craic went on for some time with some great singing (a beautiful duet from mini and Maurice Stack) and dancing especially from the Moyvane women. There was a full card of 38 teams in Ballybunion on Saturday. Mini started to send teams out at 7.50am and had the last turned around by 3pm. Everybody really enjoyed the day and are already looking inquiring about next year. I believe one of the main highlights were Bernadette Hanrahan sandwiches dished out by Mary Breen and combined with Mike Sullivans hot toddies all served at the ninth. Well done to Berkie Brownes of Listowel whos team took the main prize of the day. Phil Lowes bar in Ballyduff was second and 4 corkmen took third. Thank you to Ballybunion golf course and all the course staff for their help and support. Thank you to all those that helped including Les who did the time sheets and Jerimaha O’ Connor. As another great season drew to a close there was much reminiscing in Beale. The season kicked off with the announcement that we have been accepted for probationary membership by the Harriers. This was followed by a full season with a combination of drag and live hunts. A big thank you to David Trant and his team: John Joe, Denis, Christy, Emily, Deirdre, Timmy Flavin and Mini. Thank you to all the many people who opened and closed land throughout the season. Thank you to the hundreds of farmers for permission to cross their land. Thank you and well done to all those who hunted and followed the hounds in all sorts of territory and weather. Thank you to Emily and Kate for their help with getting the notes in every week, the job was much easier since ye turned up and of course to the many contributors! Thank you to 'The Kerryman' for including us in their notes section. Although the hunting may be over, all hands are on deck for our point to point on the 30th April in Ballybunion. Everybody is welcome to a meeting at Purcells bar in Ballyduff at 8.30 on Wednesday the 5th of April. We hope to hold a charity ride with Dr Joes Arthurs in the near future. We will also host our annual team chase at the county fair in May followed by the AGM. It is well worth keeping an eye on this space as all events will be announced. The hunt can be contacted at countykerryhunt@yahoo.co.uk. Cordal CORDAL Coiste na Nog are holding a table quiz at Hughes Bar, Cordal, on Friday, April 7, at 9pm. ?25 per table of five. Your support would be greatly appreciated. DEATHS: The untimely death of Nicholas Kearney, Jnr has occurred in Birmingham, late of Glenlarhan, he was pre deceased by his mother, Sheila, nee Brosnan. He is mourned by his dad, Nicholas, sisters, brothers, uncles, aunts and many relatives, to whom we tender our sincere sympathy. The death has also taken place of Mary Cremins, Ardmona. Remains reposed at Tangneys Funeral Home. Burial to Tobar and bFhionn followed. Requiem mass on Monday at 12 noon. To all her relatives we offer our deepest sympathy. Solas na bflaitheas ortha. DUTIES: Readers for Sunday, April 2 are Marie O’Leary and John Flaherty. Eucharistic Ministers, Monica Prendiville and Tom Wrenn. Collectors for April, Tom Wrenn, Anne Marie O’Connell, Kathleen Walsh, and Sheila Kearney. Cleaners for April are Bernadette Keane and Sheila O’Connor. MEETING: The AGM of the Kerry Branch of the Irish Rural Dwellers Assoc will take place at the Manor Inn, Killorglin on Friday, March 31 at 8pm. The guest speakers will be the National Secretary Jim Connolly, Bord Failte Director Paudie O’Shea and Michael O’Regan, the parliamentary correspondent for the Irish Times. Issues for discussion will include, rural depopulation, and planning issues, the occupancy clause, the future of Irish farming, in view of recent prediction in a report from Maynooth College, which indicates that approx 10,000 farmers will be actively engaged in agriculture by 2013, when the single payment scheme will be phased out. The promotion of agri tourism in Kerry, public representatives will be in attendance. Meeting is open to members of the public. TABLE QUIZ: Cordal Coiste na Nog will hold their annual table quiz on Friday, April 7 in Hughes Bar, Cordal at 9pm sharp. There will be 5 people per table and tables will cost ?25 each. Your support would be appreciated. All money raised will go towards the running of the Bord for 2006. COISTE NA NOG; Congrats to Padraig Dignan, Tullig, who was a member of the victorious Gael Scoil, Tra Li football team, that recently won the All Ireland B Schools final, which was played at Fitzgerald Stadium, Killarney. The Tralee team, beat Boherbue Comp School in the final. Padraig plays with the Cordal u16 football team. U14: The Cordal u14 football team plays their first game in the Co league at Pairc na Culac. The opposition will be Keel with the throw in time at 4pm. The teams remaining games will be played on Wednesday evenings. The other fixtures are as follows. March 29, Gneevegeuilla away, April 15 bye, April 12, Ballymac away, April 19, Skellig/Valentia away. U16: The Cordal u16 football team are playing Knock/Brosna at Knocknagoshel on this Sunday at 12 noon in the Castleisland Co Op Mart sponsored district league. All games in this competition are on Sunday mornings at 12 noon. Other fixtures, April 2, Scartaglin home, April 9, Ballymac away, April 16 bye, April 23 Currow away, April 30 Desmonds home. RESULTS: U14 team defeated Keel on Saturday last in Cordal. They play Gneeveguilla this Wednesday, March 29 in Gneeveguilla at 7pm. Cordal u16 team defeated Knock/Brosna last Sunday in Knocknagoshel in the Castleisland District league. They will play Scartaglin in Cordal this Sunday, April 2 at 12 noon. u12 training continues every Tuesday night at 7pm sharp. Please bring both runners and boots. Togs and socks are available for all under age players in Vincent Murphys Sports Shop in Castleisland. Dingle PILGRIMAGE: Gaeltacht Pilgrimage to Lourdes takes place from October 18 to 23, from Farranfore. Further information from Margaret Sheehy or Joan O’Shea. LOTTO: The weekly GAA Clubs lotto draw held in Danno’s on Tuesday, March 21, had a jackpot prize of ?5200. The numbers drawn were 8, 13, 20, 25. There were no winners. Four received ?50, Pronnsias Mac Uaidh, Monavee; Toots Mac Gearailt, Baile Riach; Mike Highway O’Connor, Strand St and Yvonne Leahy. MEETING: The April meeting of the GAA Club will be held in the sportsfield meeting room, on Tuesday evening, April 4, at 8pm. MASS TIME CHANGE: As and from this Saturday, April 1, the Vigil Mass will be at 8pm. MEMBERSHIP AND SEAT IN THE STAND: The GAA Club is offering an attractive package for its members. Buy a seat in the Stand plus a membership card for ?150. Those who buy a stand seat will have their names inscribed at the back of the stand. Family membership is ?80, plus ?100 for stand seat. Individual membership ?50, plus ?100 for stand seat. IRISH DWELLERS ASSOC: The AGM of the Kerry Branch of the Irish Rural Dwellers Assoc will take place at the Manor Inn, Killorglin on Friday, March 31 at 8pm. The guest speakers will be the National Secretary Jim Connolly, Bord Failte Director Paudie O’Shea and Michael O’Regan, the parliamentary correspondent for the Irish Times. Issues for discussion will include, rural depopulation, and planning issues, the occupancy clause, the future of Irish farming, in view of recent prediction in a report from Maynooth College, which indicates that approx 10,000 farmers will be actively engaged in agriculture by 2013, when the single payment scheme will be phased out. The promotion of agri tourism in Kerry, public representatives will be in attendance. Meeting is open to members of the public. WK LGE SF: Dingle were defeated 0-11 to 0-9 by Annascaul in the semi-final of the West Kerry SF league at Annascaul on Sunday last. Intermittent rain and heavy underfoot conditions made ball handling difficult. There was never much between the sides over the hour. Dingle led 0-7 to 0-6 at the break. A freshening wind helped the home side in the change over. The sides were level entering the last quarter, then Geaney was introduced and his experience told as he popped over two points. Dingle scorers were David Devane, Cathal Murphy and Mark Evans (0--2 each), Fintan Smyth and John Flannery and Padraig Corcoran (0-1 each). CO LEAGUE: Dingle made the long journey south this Sunday when they play Dromid Pearses in Round 2 of the co league at 2.30. COISTE NA NOG: The U14 team were beaten 2-8 to 0-5 by Currow in the county league at Currow on Saturday last. Duagh SCHOOL: Parents who intend enrolling their child in Duagh NS for September 06 are asked to contact the school immediately. They may ring the school secretary at 068 45366. DEATHS: Sympathy is extended to all the family members and friends of the late Christy Hickey Knockalougha who died last week. Burial was in Springmount cemetery after requiem mass. Sympathy is extended to Kathleen O Regan (nee Raymond) and family Kilcara on the recent death of her mother in Tralee. Sympathy is also extended to Mrs Anne McCarthy and family Knockunderval on the recent death of her brother Bernie Cronin of Kilmanihan Brosna. Sympathy is also extended to Jim Leahy and family Newcastle West (former manager of the Elm Bar) on the recent death of his mother. LOTTO:The GAA lotto jackpot was not won last week and E 3400 will be on offer at next weekend's draw at O Connors Bar on Friday March 31th.Tickets may be had from club officers. TICKETS: Tickets are still on sale by the local GAA club for the Peugeot cars.There are just a few more days left before the first draw is held. Two cars are on offer in the monthly draws and tickets are ?100. There are many other cash prizes on offer as well.The first draw is on April 8th with the second draw on April 15th. It is essential now that all ticket sellers return the counterfoils and money. If you have not yet purchased a ticket you may still do so now and support your local GAA club. GAA:Duagh went down by 2 points to Brosna in a North Kerry league game played at Brosna on Sunday last.With nothing to be gained from a win the Duagh players found it difficult to get motivated.However the team seemed to be cruising to a win but faided towards the end. As time ticked over Duagh conceded a penalty which was converted to the net and Brosna were winners by 2 points. It is back to county league action next week with a home game. MEMBERSHIP: Duagh GAA club membership is now open at ?20 and will be open for a little longer.To qualify for the draw for future match tickets you must be a club member. Some people left it too late to join last year and could not be included in later club draws for tickets.These notes will be the only way people will be informed of GAA membership and of closing dates. Membership may be had from club secretary Liam Dennehy Foildarrig. MINI 7s: Duagh NS 7 a side team was defeated by Tarbert NS in the final of the NOrth Kerry Mini 7's competition last week. This was a close game with the sides level at half time. However in the second half a more physical Tarbert side made better use of a strong wind to pull ahead and win by 4 points. Duagh panel: James O Connor, Ruaidhri Keane, Christopher Breen, Jack Dillon, Padraig McNamara, Nigel O Connor, John Kennedy, Gerard McCarthy, Alan Mangan, Aaron O Connor, Kieran Lucey. Kerry Association Golfing Society FOUNDED in Cork in 1994, the above society at its recent AGM saw popular President Brian Fitzgerald, a native of Fossa, Killarney step down after a busy and very successful year. Captain Liam O’Sullivan can likewise look back on a worthwhile year as Captain, as indeed can outgoing honorary secretary Una O’Shea. The incoming President is John Murray, born in Killarney and reared in Tralee - the best of any world one might claim! While the aforementioned M/S Una O’Shea, a native of Killarney and a former Bank of Ireland official has moved into the captaincy for 2006. She is replaced as honorary secretary by the amiable Bank of Ireland manager Donal Shanahan who has served as Captain. Joe Parker retains his honorary treasurers portfolio as does Pro Con Quirke. The first outing of the Society is scheduled for Saturday, April 1, at Kenmare Golf Club with tee reserved from 12.45pm to 2.15pm. Intending participants should contact Joe Parker, Athol, Balincurrig Park, Douglas, Co Cork. Kerry Deaf Update www.kerrydeaf.com We'd like to send our best wishes to our 18 EEI students who were presented with Certificates of Attendance in a wide range of subject at the weekend. From June to March, the students attended up to 8 training workshops and it was great to see them receving their certicates. A special word of thanks to Michelle Ann Houlihan from Kerry Education Service and to our own Willie White for formally presenting the certs to the students. Thanks also to Catherine White for organising all the training and to all the professional tutors- most of whom were Deaf themselves. At the weekend, our students also had the chance to meet with John Bosco Conama as he gave a 2 day workshop. John has a wealth of experience and has worked to ensure equality for Deaf people for many years. His talk was very informative and interesting. A big thanks to him for all his hard work. News from the other side of the world- As of 23 February 2006, The New Zealand Sign Language Bill has passed its second reading. As Hon Ruth Dyson proclaimed last week, by declaring New Zealand Sign Language to be an official language of our country, this House is acknowledging the Deaf community‚s presence, its rights, and its equal value in our society. No submission opposed the Bill. It's fantastic to see another county give offical designation to sign language. As many of you may know Northern Ireland has also given offical recognition to both Irish and British Sign Language. Let's hope the Irish government takes the proactive stance that other countries are taking and recognise Irish Sign Language. Our contact details as alwways: Kerry Deaf Resource Centre Ltd, 4 Gas Terrace, Tralee Tel: 066 7120399/ Fax: 066 712 0386/ E-mail: kdrc@eircom.net/ Mobile (text) 087 633 4687 We'd like to send our best wishes to our 18 EEI students who were presented with Certificates of Attendance in a wide range of subject at the weekend. From June to March, the students attended up to 8 training workshops and it was great to see them receving their certicates. A special word of thanks to Michelle Ann Houlihan from Kerry Education Service and to our own Willie White for formally presenting the certs to the students. Thanks also to Catherine White for organising all the training and to all the professional tutors- most of whom were Deaf themselves. At the weekend, our students also had the chance to meet with John Bosco Conama as he gave a 2 day workshop. John has a wealth of experience and has worked to ensure equality for Deaf people for many years. His talk was very informative and interesting. A big thanks to him for all his hard work. News from the other side of the world- As of 23 February 2006, The New Zealand Sign Language Bill has passed its second reading. As Hon Ruth Dyson proclaimed last week, by declaring New Zealand Sign Language to be an official language of our country, this House is acknowledging the Deaf community‚s presence, its rights, and its equal value in our society. No submission opposed the Bill. It's fantastic to see another county give offical designation to sign language. As many of you may know Northern Ireland has also given offical recognition to both Irish and British Sign Language. Let's hope the Irish government takes the proactive stance that other countries are taking and recognise Irish Sign Language. Our contact details as alwways: Kerry Deaf Resource Centre Ltd, 4 Gas Terrace, Tralee Tel: 066 7120399/ Fax: 066 712 0386/ E-mail: kdrc@eircom.net/ Mobile (text) 087 633 4687 Kilflynn KILFLYNN DANCERS SOCIAL: The Kilflynn Dancing Group are holding their Annual night out on this Saturday night 1st April at 8.30 p.m. sharp. Music on the night will be provided by John Pat Murphy. For Further information please contact Maureen on 7135299 or Kate on 7132482 on or before Thursday 30th March. BALLYSEEDY: Kilflynn Sinn Fein Cumann, Ballyseedy Martyr Annual Commemoration, On this Sunday 2nd April at 4.30 p.m. Guest Speaker. Assembly at the bridge at 4.15 p.m. Ballad Session afterwards in Parker‚s Pub. CROTTA LOTTO RESULTS: The Four numbers drawn out of the drum by the Independent observer John Mahony , Kilflynn in The Crotta hurling club lotto Draw on Monday night 27th March in Cronin‚s bar were: 7, 13, 15 and 25. There were no winners of the ?1,100 Jackpot. The lucky dip winners each receive ?35: Sasha Falvey, Garrynagore, Jennifer Falvey, Garrynagore, John Shanahan, Lixnaw. The Next draw will take place in Parker‚s Pub on Monday 3rd April with a ?1,200 Jackpot. Tickets are available at ?2 from Club tickets sellers or from Cronin's Bar, Parker's Bar and Kilflynn Post Office. NEW ARRIVAL: The Birth took place in Kerry General Hospital on Wednesday 22nd March of Hazel Parker, daughter of Geraldine and Mike Parker, Castletown, Kilflynn and a baby Sister for Gavin. MASS TIMES : The Saturday evening Vigil Mass will be at the new time of 8.30 p.m. and the Sunday morning mass will be at the usual time of 10.00 a.m. CYCLING : The Graham Harris Cycling club will continue their weekly Cycling Outing on this Sunday from Mike and Bobs Barry House, Crotta at 2.00 p.m. All are welcome to come along on these enjoyable cycling trips. Bikes provided. ABBEYDORNEY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LTD. : The Abbeydorney Development Company Ltd. Wish to announce the appointment of Mrs. Noreen O‚ Flaherty to the position of Co-ordinator with the active retired in the parish. Her duties include home visits and co-ordinating the social afternoons in the Community Centre. A new initiative in the provision of a full meal at the fortnightly social afternoons. An Active Retirement Social afternoon will take place at the Community Hall, Abbeydorney on Wednesday 29th March commencing at 1.00 p.m. to 4.00 p.m. Any person interested in attended contact Noreen O‚Flaherty at 7135831. CHURCH NEWS: Those Required for Church duties in St. Mary's Church, Kilflynn are follows: Readers for: Saturday 1st and Sunday 2nd April Vigil: Helen Kelly-Fuller Walsh. Morning: Josephine Lynch. Eucharistic Ministers for Saturday 1st and Sunday 2nd April, Vigil: Sean Shine, Morning: Francis White. Saturday's Vigil mass is for Mai Breen, Laccamore, and Sunday morning is for Mary Breen, Knockbrack. Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament: Mondays in St. Mary's from 4.00 p.m. to 9.00 p.m. Collectors for April: Tom Mc Elligott, Margaret Dillon and Jimmy Walsh. Altar Society for April: Bess Cashell and Anne Sheehan. MASS TIMES: The Saturday evening Vigil Mass will be at the new time of 8.30 p.m. and the Sunday morning mass will be at the usual time of 10.00 a.m. TAEKWON-DO: The Pilsung School of Taekwon-Do Classes continues every Saturday from 4.00 p.m. to 6.00 p.m. in St. Columbas Centre, Kilflynn. All Welcome to attend. LOURDES: Kerry Diocesan Pilgrimage to Lourdes will take place on September 2nd to 7th led by Bishop Bill Murphy. Further details from Torc Travel, Killarney 064-32911. DARTS: The weekly Darts Doubles Tournament winners on Saturday night last at Parker‚s lounge Bar were Declan Falvey and Richard. Parkinson who defeated Mitchell Mc Aulifee and Graham Harris In the final. The winners of Legs of Lamb on Saturday 18th March were: Paud Twomey and Richard Parkinson defeated Mike Fealy and Micheal O‚Sullivan in the final. The weekly Darts Doubles Tournament will continue this Saturday night, Names to be in for the draw at 10.15 p.m. The Winners will receive a Leg of Lamb each. DRAMA GROUP: The Abbeydorney Drama Group will perform their play for the Senior Citizens on Sunday 2nd April at 3.30 p.m. in Community Hall, Abbeydorney. LADIES FOOTBALL: U12 and U14 training continues every Saturday from 4pm to 5.30pm, in Abbeydorney Sportsfield. All girls interested in playing football, please attend. U14 Fixture: Abbeydorney v Dr Crokes this Wednesday evening, March 29. Bus leaving Horgans, Ardfert at 6pm and the Sportsfield, Abbeydorney at 6.10pm sharp. ALL-IRELAND TITLE - Congratulations to the Kerry Vocational Schools hurling team who captured the All-Ireland Vocational Inter-County All-Ireland B Hurling title, with a impressive victory over Wexford in Clonmel on Wednesday 22nd March on the 2-18 to 2-07 final scoreline. Kerry led by 1-10 to 0-04 at half time. The Crotta Hurling club was well represented by Darren Twomey at wing back on the victories team. Well done lads. Kilmoyley COMMUNITY CARE LOTTO: There was no jackpot winner of this week’s lotto. The numbers drawn were 12,13,14,15. Two ?50 winners were Margaret Nolan, Tocharbane, and Triona Curran, Banna East. Next weeks jackpot ?900. WALKING GROUP: The Walking Group will have an outing to Scotia’s Glen on Sunday 2nd April. Meeting as usual at Tochar Ban car park at 10am. The Hospice will be having a fund raising walk on Good Friday and we will join up for this walk. It is a Blennerville, Ballyard circle walk starting at the Brandon Car park at 10am. So all you walkers out there get walking as this is a good cause. Both walks are two hours approx. Everyone welcome. CILLARD CAMOGIE CLUB: Training continues next Sunday 2nd April for the newly formed Camogie club. U-10, U-12 will take place at Ardfert Sports Field from 12.15 to 1.30. Take note of change of venue. U-14 and U-16 will take place at Kilmoyley Sports field at 6.15pm. Any girls who have not already joined are more than welcome to turn up at the training sessions. Beginners welcome. Telephone 086-3317101 for more details. MINOR HURLING CLUB: FIXTURES: Co. U-14 Hurling League – Kilmoyley V Causeway on Friday evening 31st March at Kilmoyley Sports field. Time 7pm. TAKE YOUR PICK DRAW: Will take place at McElligotts Bar, Ardfert on this Sunday night the 2nd April. KERRY MINOR HURLERS: Best of luck to the Kerry Minor Hurlers who play Waterford in the 1st round of the Munster Championship on Saturday 1st April in Killarney at 2pm. Kilmoyley will be represented by James Godley, Edward Fitzgerald, Niall Young, Jake Doherty, Jason Fealy, Adrian Royle, David Fitzell, Mick Griffin and Andy McCarthy. GAA: GOLF CLASSIC: The Kilmoyley Hurling Club Golf Classic has become one of the major events of the year and this years classic will again be held in Ballyheigue Castle Golf Club on Saturday May 6th. This years event promises to be bigger and better than ever. Team sponsorship is ?160 per team, Tee boxes ?50. For further information contact Michael Meehan at 066-7134551. Early booking essential. FIXTURES: The weather over the weekend caused the cancellation of the complete round of games in the North Kerry Senior hurling league. Kilmoyley were due to play Abbeydorney in round 1 but this has now been deferred to the last round in April. Kilmoyley play Crotta in Dromakee on Monday April 3rd at 6.30pm. On this Wednesday evening March 29th Kilmoyley play Lixnaw in Lixnaw in the Intermediate North Kerry League. On Wednesday April 5th Kilmoyley play Abbeydorney in Lerrig in Round 2 of the North Kerry Intermediate league. ALL-IRELAND VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS: Congratulations to the Kerry team who defeated Wexford in the All-Ireland B Vocational Schools final in Clonmel on Wednesday last. The panel was made up of students from Causeway Comprehensive School Well done to the Kilmoyley players who played a major part in the victory, David Fitzell, Jake Doherty, Adrian Royle, Andy McCarthy, Edward Fitzgerald and John Brendan O Halloran. Well done to all involved. LENTEN DRAW: Kilmoyley National School Lenten draw results; Week 2 – 1st Dee Quilter, 2nd Emily Fitzell, 3rd Daniel Collins. Seller Anne Egan, Promoter James Murphy. Week 3 – 1st Eilis Bn Ui Loibhead, 2nd Marie McCarthy, 3rd Rosarie Godley, Seller Peter Crowe, Promoter Joseph O Connor. LADIES FOOTBALL: U12 and U14 training continues every Saturday from 4pm to 5.30pm, in Abbeydorney Sportsfield. All girls interested in playing football, please attend. U14 Fixture: Abbeydorney v Dr Crokes this Wednesday evening, March 29. Bus leaving Horgans, Ardfert at 6pm and the Sportsfield, Abbeydorney at 6.10pm sharp. Kingdom Pony Club Hunter Trials: Have been re scheduled for Saturday 8th April in Joe & Marie Arthurs. Your presence & assistance will be greatly appreciated on the day to give a hand with the various activities especially fence stewarding. Starting time 10.30am. Congratulations: To Laura Collins & Nicola O’Mahony who teamed up with a pony club member from Scarteen in the Seniors and took 1st Place in the team of three in the Hunter Trials last Saturday in Pallas Green In the Junior Pairs Katie & Louise O’Brien took 1st place, Sharon O’Mahony & Bertie Moriarty came in 3rd while Aisling & Sarah Collins came in 6th. Katie took 1st place & Sharon took 3rd Place in the Individuals. Well done to all Showjumping Lessons: Will commence shortly for the Minimus & the Robbie Bailey. Anyone interested in taking part please contact Julie @ 087/2278224 or 066/7135477 Hunter Trial Championship: Will take place in Gurteen, Co. Tipperary on 22nd April in the following events: Junior Pairs & Individuals, Senior Individual & teams of 3. Those interested contact Bernie @ 087/6288192. Congratulations: To the following members who passed their D test, which was held in Tralee Equestrian Centre, with flying colours on Friday March 24th: Donal Buckley, Sophie Daly, Ellen O’Sullivan & Sean Savage. Lessons are continuing for the D+ test. Lyreacrompane LOTTO: There was no winner of last week’s jackpot of ?3,550 the numbers drawn were 10,14,16,24. The ?35 was won by Helena and Mossie Dowling, Duagh and the ?20 by Maureen Sheehan, Castleisland. The four sets of free tickets for next weeks jackpot of ?3,700 were won by Maureen Aherne, Lyre, Tom Murphy, Lyre, David Leen, Carrigcannon and Martin Sheehan, Castleisland. The whiskey was won by Mick Naughton, Lyre and the voucher by John Neville, Lyre. DEATH: The death occurred recently of Lucy Nolan nee Sommers, Clahane, wife of the late Moss Nolan, survived by her sisters Mary and Mercella, her sons Tom, Monty, John, Mike, Sam and predeceased son Ned, daughters Liz, Anne and Kate, sons in law, daughters in law, grand children, great grand children, nieces and nephews, relatives and friends. Burial took place in Lyreacrompane Cemetery. Sincere sympathy is extended to all the family. Sympathy is extended to Mrs Marian Ahern, Knocknaglough, Lyre and family on the recent death of her father. COURSE: Lyreacrompane N.S. in conjunction with the Kerry Education Services are offering a course called “Story Sacks” which will take place in Lyreacrompane Resource Centre commencing on Tuesday 28th March at 7.30pm.. If you would like further information regarding this course or wish to participate. Please contact Maura on (087) 4163395. TEA DANCE: A tea dance takes place this coming Sunday 2nd April in Castleisland. A bus is leaving the Resource Centre at 2pm. 
