sport football
{ Eamonn Sweeney 
    December 10 2017 05:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/ladies-football/breakthrough-ladies-gaelic-football-season-has-become-unsung-sports-story-of-the-year-36393757.html }
Last Sunday's All-Ireland club finals provided a suitably stirring finale to a hugely memorable and significant ladies' Gaelic football season. Top of the bill was an absorbing senior final which saw Cork's Mourneabbey produce a tremendous late comeback against competition specialists Carnacon. In the end, despite a magnificent goal from Bríd O'Sullivan - who ran half the length of the pitch and played a perfect one-two before blasting home - Mourneabbey fell short largely because of Cora Staunton, making a typically huge impact in her final game before departing for Australia. Carnacon's victory was their fifth in 11 years, sixth overall, and they probably wouldn't have won any of those finals without Staunton. Yet that's not the same as saying that they're a one-woman team and last Sunday's game underlined the enormous contribution made by the splendid Fiona McHale and Maeve Carter. In centre half-forward Amy Dowling, just a year out of minor but outstanding all season, they have a potential star of the future. The intermediate final saw one of the game's current stars, Orla Finn of Kinsale, go up against another wunderkind, Dunboyne's Vikki Wall, and it was the Meath woman who prevailed with her side winning an epic encounter 2-13 to 2-12. Aghada's victory over Corduff in the junior decider was notable for being the first Cork All-Ireland club victory since Inch Rovers won the senior title in 2010. Mourneabbey and Kinsale have suffered the agony of losing five All-Ireland finals between them in four years by a combined total of 13 points. It's worth noting too that the senior final was TG4's highest-rated programme of the week with an average of 76,000 viewers, roughly the same number who have watched the channel's coverage of men's club hurling and football.  It's been a season of impressive statistics for ladies' football, the most impressive being that 46,286 which attended the All-Ireland final between Dublin and Mayo at Croke Park in September. That figure is worth harping on, not least because it made the game the best attended women's sporting event in the world this year. Yet it's worth remembering that ladies' football is about quality as well as quantity. The final was actually one of the less exciting games of the season. It was a decent match but streets behind the league final between Cork and Donegal, one of the most thrilling contests I saw in any sport anywhere this year.  One reason why TG4's viewing figures are on the up and up is that if you tune into ladies' football you're pretty much guaranteed a really good match. The game is at a very exciting juncture just now. One of the remarkable things about the dominance of the Cork side which won 11 titles in 12 years was that it defied conventional sporting logic by not proving detrimental to the sport. Instead, ladies' football grew in popularity. This may have been partly because so many of Cork's finals went down to the wire - there were five single-point and a couple of two-point victories in there - and also that the likes of Juliet Murphy, Briege Corkery, Bríd Stack and Valerie Mulcahy epitomised excellence to an extent which raised the game's standing in the eyes of the sporting public. Ladies' football owes a lot to the Rebelettes. Dublin deserved to inherit the crown this year but were they to emulate Cork by adding add a few titles on the trot I suspect the game's appeal would diminish. Thankfully, that probably won't happen.  Mayo will suffer from Staunton's departure but Cork are primed to bounce back, Monaghan look a rejuvenated outfit and Donegal are the most intriguing quantity of all. Undoubtedly the most exciting football side in the country and with a forward in Geraldine McLaughlin who, at the age of 23, has the potential to become as good a player as the game has ever seen, Donegal have been knocking on the door for the last couple of years. The prospect of them going up against Dublin or Cork on the big day in September is just one reason why ladies' football will be compulsive viewing again next year. The ladies' AFL in which Cora Staunton will play attracted just 15,610 to this year's Grand Final. And that's in a sports-mad country where Australian rules is the number-one spectator attraction. So don't underestimate just how much the Ladies' Gaelic Football Association has achieved.  Theirs is the most remarkable and the most unsung sports story of the year. Sunday Indo Sport 
