sport football
{  
    December 16 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/five-heroes-from-blarney-area-nominated-for-sports-stars-27058346.html }
FIVE sporting stars from the Blarney area were among those named, when The Corkman/Kostal Sports Star Award winners for 2004 were announced recently.Vincent Murphy, famous miler of yesteryear, enters the Hall of Fame, while his Blarney/Inniscarra team-mate Jerry Forde will collect the Special Achievement Award. Squash is to be honoured for the first time with Irish internat FIVE sporting stars from the Blarney area were among those named, when The Corkman/Kostal Sports Star Award winners for 2004 were announced recently. Vincent Murphy, famous miler of yesteryear, enters the Hall of Fame, while his Blarney/Inniscarra team-mate Jerry Forde will collect the Special Achievement Award. Squash is to be honoured for the first time with Irish international, Johnny Hurley the worthy recipient. The ladies are not forgotten either as football All-Star and soccer international Valerie Mulcahy scoops yet another prize. The quintet is made up by Hurler of the Year, Seán Óg Ó hÁilpín whose achievements in 2004 are remarkable by any standards. When veterans gather and discuss the sporting stars of times past, the name of Vincent Murphy is among the first mentioned. Vin began his athletic career in 1945 in a 1 mile handicap race in Coolowen, beating fellow Blarney man Charlie Conway, who was later to achieve fame as a GAA referee. Over the next eight years, Vin went on to win several Cork and Munster titles on the track and cross country. In 1948, he was crowned All Ireland champion over 3,000 meters. During the 1940s and ’50s the annual Village Sports were huge events in the local sporting calendar. People travelled from all over Munster to sports in venues such as Ballineen, Bweeing, Doneraile and Grenagh. Vin was hugely successful on the circuit collecting several trophies and medals on his travels. On one day in 1952, he won a mile race in Kenmare before cycling to Glengarriff to win again over the same distance. The hard economic facts that prevailed in the years following the war, made travel difficult. Had today’s wealth been around back then, Vin would almost certainly have added to his tally of national titles and gone on to represent Ireland on many occasions. Today, he is fit and well and remains an active member of Blarney/Inniscarra AC. Vincent is a most worthy recipient of the Corkman/Kostal Hall of Fame Award for 2004. SPECIAL Achievement Award winner, Jerry Forde has participated in wheel chair road racing since 1992. In that time he has competed in every Dublin City Marathon except 1999, when he raced in Chicago on the same day. Jerry has completed eighty two marathons to date, taking in the continents of Africa, America, Asia, Australia and Europe. He has participated in thirteen of the fifteen states in the pre enlarged EU (Greece and Luxembourg don’t stage wheelchair events). Of the new member states, Jerry has already raced in Poland, Slovenia and Hungry. On the home front, Jerry has participated in road races in all 32 counties. Last weekend Jerry travelled to Majorca to take part in his latest marathon, and he is now busy preparing his schedule for 2005. Jerry Forde is a remarkable sportsman whose bravery and dedication to his sport is an example to all. JOHNNY Hurley achieved the best year of his illustrious squash career during 2004. In February, he was crowned Munster senior champion for the forth consecutive year. He also played a pivotal role in the Munster team that won the Inter-Provincial championship for the first time in twenty years. Johnny led his club, Silversprings to glory in the Munster Senior League, remaining unbeaten throughout the campaign. A consistently high level of performances on the Irish Grand Prix circuit, seen him finish among the top four players in the country. Johnny’s excellent form was rewarded when he was selected on the Irish team for the European Team Championship in Rennes. The team went on to confound the experts by finishing a highly creditable sixth in the competition, ahead of many more fancied opponents. Earlier in his career, he represented Ireland as a junior in European U16 and U18 championships, as well as participating in several overseas events. A fine all round athlete, Johnny Hurley is a key member of the Blarney intermediate hurling team, whom he captained in the 1999 county final. He has also been a regular on both the Muskerry senior hurling and football teams for a number of years. LADIES football, soccer and camogie are all parts of Valerie Mulcahy’s busy sporting life. And she has enjoyed considerable success in an all three codes during the year. Valerie plays her club football and camogie with Rockban. She played on the football team which won the All Ireland junior and intermediate titles in consecutive years. This season, she has been leading scorer with both her club and Cork at senior level. She was centre-forward on the rebels side that won the Munster senior title for the first time this year, and last month was the recipient of an All Star Ladies Football Award. All-Star awards are nothing new to Valerie who studies at University Limerick. For the past two years she has collected College All Stars for ladies football and soccer as well as playing a leading role on the UL team which recorded a ‘double’ by winning the intervarsity championships at both codes in 2004. Her prowess as a soccer player was illustrated by her selection for the Irish team that competed in the World Student Games held in North Korea in 2003. This year, Valerie gained her first full cap when she represented Ireland’s senior team in the Faroe Islands. And if that’s not all, Valerie is a regular on the Muskerry senior camogie team. WHAT more can be said of Seán Óg O hAilipin ? GPA Hurler of the Year; Vodaphone Hurler of the Year; Texaco Hurler of the Year; Vodafone All-Star; All-Ireland Senior Hurling Medal; Cork Senior Hurling Championship medal, and now a Corkman/Kostal Sports Star Award. Throw in a couple of international appearances for Ireland in the Compromise Rules series and you have without doubt the sporting personality of 2004. But in Seán Óg you have much more than that. A gentleman on and off the field, he is always willing to help a worthy cause. He is the perfect role model for the youth of this year and every year.  The winning The Corkman/Kostal Sports Stars will receive their awards at the Springfort Hall, Mallow, on Saturday, February 12, 2005. 
