sport football
{ EUGENE McGEE 
    September 16 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/meath-adhere-to-gaelic-footballs-finest-traditions-26074269.html }
A LOT has been written, and said, about Meath football teams since their modern-day revival started with their first Leinster championship for 17 years in 1986. In those early 'eighties years, media comments were generally more negative than positive, as commentators struggled to come to grips with the much more abrasive style of football played by Meath, as opposed to their more refined immediate predecessors, Kerry. Of course, it wasn't just Meath changing the face of Gaelic football at that time. Several counties were bringing a meaner, more destructive element to the game, in keeping with changes in society in general over a decade ago. The fact the rules of the game allowed for that change in style and attitude is a matter for the GAA, but, in general, the sporting public were content to embrace the change. But while other counties were tolerated for a more physical approach, Meath were not. They were branded then, and the brand has not been erased. Mention Meath and you can predict the adjectives which will follow within seconds ... tough, dangerous and dirty are the more moderate ones. I was reminded of all of this the day after Meath's greatest performance of the past 50 years, when they demolished Kerry in the All-Ireland semi-final by 15 points pulling up. Writing after the match, I pointed out how sporting Meath were, not a player booked, and how they played the basics with wonderful style and panache. Thanks to the Internet, all sorts of people can now communicate with journalists, and they do! By breakfast on Monday, September 3, I had an e-mail from a man living in Lima, Peru. My correspondent, Raymond, claimed my article was: "A pathetically biased discourse on Meath football. "Have Meath become the knights in shining armour of Gaelic football overnight? If not, why were their praises not sung beforehand?" See what I mean about branding? Meath footballers got a bad name in the late 'eighties and it's hung around their neck like an albatross ever since. And if a journalist writes anything complimentary about them, he or she is likely to be called "pathetically biased". Not, of course, that Meath players or supporters, then or now, give a tuppenny damn about how the public perceive them. And they are dead right. Gaelic football at inter-county level is neither a beauty nor popularity contest. One wonders what the public reaction will be if Meath go on to beat Galway next Sunday? Will the Meath team be rated with the very best of the last 50 years? Will their detractors claim they got Kerry on a bad day? Will Sean Boylan get any credit for producing anything other than a team with never-say-die spirit? Will he be hailed as a master of football tactics like Kevin Heffernan; a man capable of putting a super-fit team on the field, like Mick O'Dwyer; or a sophisticated thinker as various Down managers were credited as they won their five All-Irelands? The short answer is NO. Once sports followers get something into their heads it can take 50 years or more to change their minds. Kilkenny hurlers are always supposed to be the most skillful because they were regarded that way 75 years ago. Mayo footballers are expected to lose the games which matter nowadays. Armagh are never expected to win championship games in Croke Park. And so it goes on, and on. Over the past 15 years Meath have played a lot of the best football we have seen in Croke Park. They have produced at least 20 players who could be rated as good in their positions as anyone in the history of the GAA. They have drawn the biggest crowds of any county in Ireland. And, not insignificantly, they have won four All-Irelands in that time, more than any other county. Yet, despite all that, they remain an unpopular team with the majority of GAA followers, as any media person who gives them their due credit will quickly find out. I believe one of the root causes of Meath's unpopularity is that their football ethos flies in the face of what the modernisers of Gaelic football have tried to ram down our throats for the past 20 years. Meath play football as it was played 100 years ago, with some obvious refinements brought about by dramatic improvement in fitness levels, and additional training. In particular, they play a lot of catch-and-kick football, and use their bodies legitimately to wear down opponents by hitting them a wallop when the occasion arises. They have won their recent All-Irelands from these fundamental starting points. This sticks in the craw of many coaches, trainers, sports psychologists and whatever you're having yourself attached to other county teams. These are the people who sought to revolutionise the game with strategies mostly imported from other football games. They sought to lessen the necessity to learn how to kick the ball by using the running handpass. High fielding was to be downgraded as a primary skill by crowding opponents and breaking the ball away from them. The art of kicking points from 40 yards was seen as too difficult, so players were coached to short pass the ball through opposing defences and not to shoot until they could almost see the colour of the goalkeeper's eyes. Sadly, these experts were encouraged by some media people who were dazzled by this 'intelligent' football, and who wrote about it in glowing terms. Nobody seemed to notice this style was a major contributor to the pulling and dragging of modern times, which has led to the number of frees per-game often crossing the 60 mark. While this football revolution was being implemented, we had boring, boring Meath, according to the reformers, still kicking the ball 50 yards, going around knocking opponents down all over the place, catching high balls in the middle of the field and taking pot-shots for points from ridiculous distances and angles. All so backward. "Bogmen's football", as I once heard it described. Meath's style of football provides greater challenges for players than the short game favoured by other counties. Each man has to be able to catch the ball at the end of a long foot pass, then beat an opponent. Indeed, personal bravery is the first requirement, as it used to be in Gaelic football until modern times. There is no place to hide on a Meath football team. Their style has set its own standards for selection. Players have to be utterly brave, incredibly dedicated to the county cause, and prepared to work 'till they drop. What really annoys so many non-Meath people is that these are qualities which EVERY inter-county player should have, but which many have not. And the more Meath win the more these people get frustrated at the sheer simplicity which governs their approach under Boylan. Another win next Sunday will merely add to that frustration, while Meath will revel once more in being unloved. * E-mail: eugenemcg@hotmail.com 
