sport football
{  
    December 11 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/sport/other-sports/no-basis-for-football-is-poor-relation-view-27441596.html }
Having outlined the series of events leading up the eventual withdrawal of the senior footballers from the All Ireland qualifier against Fermanagh, the secretary says he considered the request for the postponement was reasonable, and similar requests appear from time to time before all county chairmen.	But not all requests are granted, and indeed requests this year fro Having outlined the series of events leading up the eventual withdrawal of the senior footballers from the All Ireland qualifier against Fermanagh, the secretary says he considered the request for the postponement was reasonable, and similar requests appear from time to time before all county chairmen. “But not all requests are granted, and indeed requests this year from our county committee to Munster Council [late venue change for our Junior Football game] and to Croke Park [Change of date for M.H. All-Ireland semi-final and deferral of qualifier game against Fermanagh] were refused. Faced with the dilemma of having no management team or panel it was decided to contact Croke Park and relay the news that we would not be fielding. We were fined ?5,000 and lost the qualifier moneys, which this year realised the princely sum of ?37,000. Censure under Official Guide 116 would have been more serious. To agree upon a management team for 2005 proved difficult even with Christy Cooney as mediator appointed by Munster Council. After many meetings County committee eventually decided it favoured new names for the selection committee and Coiste Peile proceeded to set up a sub-committee to seek new selectors. At time of writing the names of the new selectors are not available but I wish the sub-committee well in their efforts to produce a new management team and I sincerely hope Tipperary footballers will make a successful return to the playing fields of Ireland. “During this impasse which lasted from early until November a number of people tried to turn this into an issue of football versus hurling with the claim that football was the “poor relation” in Tipperary and that the lack of football success in Tipperary is due to funds and facilities not being made available. In my experience this claim simply does not stand up to scrutiny. There are many who accept that both codes are treated well in Tipperary. I am not aware of any complaints from the players and I also understand the selectors had no issue with county board except for the playing of a club game in the week prior to the Fermanagh game. “However there seems to be a sector of the Tipperary public who are not willing to give any credit at all to county committee and this is because they are unaware of the facts. Football is not downgraded by county committee inTipperary. For example, our hurlers and footballers get the same mileage allowance as laid down by Croke Park. Hurlers and footballers are given meals of equal quality after games and training sessions. The football board has the complete freedom to order the meals of choice and county committee have never had a problem paying for them. Both the hurling and football squads get the gear allowance as approved by Croke Park. Both the hurlers and footballers use the same training facilities in Morris Park. “The county G.A.C. organize as many if not more football games in Tipperary than hurling games. For example, in 2002 we played at County level 332 football games [66%] and 173 hurling games [34%] while in 2003 we played at County level 244 football games [56%] and192 hurling games [44%]. This is a fact people find difficult to comprehend as Tipp is seen as a hurling county. Audited figures at county convention can show we spend an equal figure on preparing hurling teams as we do preparing football teams comparative to the number of games played. We have a very comprehensive coaching system in operation in the county, which caters for both codes. In the county there are Schools of Excellence in both hurling and football for under 14 and Under 15 players. There are also Development Squads for under 17 players in both hurling and football. Equal treatment is given to both codes. “The county committee through its Coaching and Games Development Committee has promoted the idea of coaches in every parish for both codes and earlier this year a large number of coaches were trained in the Clare Inn for football promotion. In order to help the promotion of football in the county a Football Committee was set up and this committee has its own representative[s] with full voting rights on County G.A.C., on County Committee and on the County Executive Committee. I simply cannot any basis for the claim that football is the “poor relation” in Tipperary. If there is a problem then the representatives on county committee should make it known. Meanwhile let us all get on with the function of promoting Gaelic games and make every effort to bring success,” Mr. O’Brien says. “The decision to rule the motion out of order at Congress was technically correct,” the secretary states. “The fact that, that decision was made by a committee made up of ex-presidents, some of whom aren’t as physically active as they used to be, does not make the decision incorrect. There was no problem some years ago with the same men allowed the motion to be put to the floor of Congress. Does it only become a problem when some members with an obvious agenda don’t agree with it? When the motion was not passed some years ago at successive Congresses there were many column inches attacking the age profile of the delegates. We must also remember that people do not become disenfranchised when they reach a certain age or indeed lose the right to have opinions and make decisions. “Personally I was disappointed that the question was not aired as a motion. I feel a phone call or an e-mail to one of the counties submitting the motion and affording the opportunity to put the motion in order could have been made in advance of the closing date. I feel it would have been the common sense thing to do. If the motion was carried then I’m sure we’d hear a lot about this being the correct democratic decision, but if the motion failed to get the required majority then we’d be deluged with complaints from the same sources again at the lack of true democracy in the Association. “Why did the counties not submit the motion correctly when they were advised last year why and where the motion was out of order? “Why were the media so emphatic that the motion should be discussed and decided upon at Congress? On both occasions when it was debated and a decision reached, the same media experts said the delegates were not representative of the majority of G.A.A. members and the decision did not represent the views of the G.A.A. clubs. Undemocratic we were told. Would it be democratic if the decision co-incides with the openly expressed views of certain media people? “A letter on one of the daily papers before the Easter sums up the situation nicely and I take the liberty to quote from the same letter. “After struggling for over half a century, the G.A.A. [an amateur sporting body] has provided its members with a world class stadium. In approximately the same time frame the FAI [a professional organisation] and the IRFU [recently turned professional] have between them only achieved a run-down stadium in Lansdowne Road. So how come the GAA is the bad guy? “It is interesting to note that neither the IRFU nor the FAI have made an approach for the use of Croke Park. They seem quite happy to allow their supporters travel to Britain to view the games. Surely the request should come that quarter. If there is no request then there can’t be a refusal. “So, will Croke Park be opened up to other sports? Personally I think it will be opened up to accommodate the many fans who openly support our Gaelic games and also support other codes and who may be forced to go to great expense to do just that. It would be a good public relations exercise but the opening of Croke Park for whatever period of time will have to be on the GAA terms,” the secretary says. 
