sport football
{  
    December 10 2012 12:07 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/sport/sport-for-all-thats-their-motto-28982871.html }
INCLUDING PEOPLE with a disability in sporting and active recreational activity has been an integral part of the work of Sligo Sport and Recreation Partnership (SSRP) to date. Through the establishment of their Sports Inclusion Disability Project in 2008, added focus has been placed on the area of inclusion and a key objective of the project involves the co-ordination of training and education opportunities in disability awareness through sport. The National Training and Education Working Group for Inclusive Physical Activity, Sport and Physical Education was formed in 2011 to help ensure the highest standards of training and education in these three areas and the working group have recently developed a framework outlining the future of training and education for inclusive physical activity, sport and physical education in Ireland. This working group is made up of a collection of key national agencies in inclusive sport and physical activity including; Coaching Ireland, Irish Wheelchair Association - Sport, CARA Adapted Physical Activity Centre, Football Association of Ireland, Special Olympics Ireland, Cerebral Palsy Sport Ireland, Irish Deaf Sports and Irish Blind Sports. The group also has representation from the Local Sports Partnership/Sports Inclusion Disability Project and Shane Hayes;, the local Sports Inclusion Disability Officer with SSRP was selected for this role. He is responsible for the co-ordination, facilitation, promotion and delivery of education and training in the area of sport, adapted physical activity and adapted physical education in Sligo. The first revised Sport For All/Disability Inclusion Training Workshop took place recently in the Knocknarea Arena at IT Sligo. The six-hour course is designed to give sports development officers, coaches, sports leaders, volunteers and anyone involved in the provision of sport or physical activity for people with a disability the ideas and confidence to adapt their sessions to make them more inclusive for participants with a disability. The course, which involves both theory and practical elements, also examines various perceptions and experiences in relation to sport and physical activity for people with disabilities and looks at disability awareness in terms of legislation, communication and potential barriers to participation. A maximum of sixteen people attended the training, and they came from a variety of backgrounds including volunteers on SSRP's Sports Inclusion Disability Project, third level students, community workers, parents of children with a disability and coaches/instructors from two local clubs (Sligo Kayak Club and the Carrowmore Archers Club) who have been very proactive in working towards becoming a more inclusive club which cater for people with a disability. Following the training, the Sports Inclusion Disability Officer will continue to work closely with these sports clubs to improve access and programming for people with disabilities. Any local sports clubs who wish to become more inclusive can contact Shane Hayes, Sports Inclusion Disability Officer with Sligo Sport and Recreation Partnership on 071 9161511 or shane@sligosportandrecreation.ie to discuss further. 
