sport football
{  
    July 05 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27359872.html }
CHARITY WALK: The Asdee area was very well represented in the big charity Walk which took place over the Shannon Walkway on Sunday afternoon.Weather conditions were absolutely ideal for the big occasion and the sizeable field of participants were led out on their way from the summit of Cnoc an Oir hill by former Kerry football stars Jimmy Deenihan, Ogie Moran and Eoin Liston CHARITY WALK: The Asdee area was very well represented in the big charity Walk which took place over the Shannon Walkway on Sunday afternoon. Weather conditions were absolutely ideal for the big occasion and the sizeable field of participants were led out on their way from the summit of Cnoc an Oir hill by former Kerry football stars Jimmy Deenihan, Ogie Moran and Eoin Liston. Each participant received a doggie Bag which consisted of a bottle of water a banana and a snack bar all of which were sponsored by local business people. Their journey took the walkers down a picturesque journey through Ballynoneen, Larha and Tullahinell with many people coming out on their doorsteps to give everyone plenty of encouragement. One of the first to arrive at Moran's Cross was Stephen Enright of Ahanagran while others locals up the field in the walk included David Breen, John Hennessy Kathleen Carmody of Larha while the the O Neill family from Tullahinell were well represented in the walk. There were a number of pit stops along the way with plenty of water and other refreshments available at several locations along the route. The final leg of the journey took the walkers on by the cross of the wood through Leslies Wood coming to the finishing line at The Bridewell in Tarbert. To ensure the safety of everyone the entire route was very well marshalled and the Ballybunion Sea Rescue Ambulance was on standby in case anyone got into difficulties. The good news is that everyone negotiated the route successfully and were pleased to be able to participate in aid of a most worthy cause. Not everyone walked the full route as some less seasoned walkers just completed legs of the 16 mile journey. The fund - raising venture was organised by the Listowel Branch of The Kerry Parents and Friends who were assisted by the Shannon Walks Committee and Shannon Development The proceeds will be used to finance the provision a wheelchair accessible Bus for the training centre at John B Keane Road in Listowel. According to Oliver O Neill the cost of the bus will be in the region of ?45,000 so anyone out there that still wants to make a donation can do so. OBITUARY: The community was saddened to learn of the death after a bravely borne illness of Kitty O Gorman (nee O Connor) formerly of Hanwell, West London, Newport County Tipperary and Clounamon, Asdee. A member of a very well known and highly respected family Kitty spent most of their life in London but enjoyed coming back to her native parish. Many of the families friends and neighbours made the journey to Newport County Tipperary on Saturday evening for the removal of her remains from Meehan's Funeral Home to Newport parish church and again on Sunday for the Requiem Mass and internment which took place to the Rockvale cemetery. Deepest sympathy is extended to all her family and relatives. UNWANTED CLOTHES COLLECTION: People can play an active role in assisting Homeless orphans in Kenya by donating unwanted clothes and other useful household items to a major collection drive which will be taking place in the North Kerry area next week. People are asked to put their unwanted items in a plastic bag and they will be collected by a lorry in a number of local towns and villages. Items that are high on the priority list are used clothing, clean and dry ladies men's and children's Household textiles, clean and dry curtains, towels, shoes and bed linen, Used footwear in pairs clean and dry ladies men's and children's. All the mentioned items will be forwarded to The Dochas Nasamu, Children's Home in Ikumbi a small village just outside Nairobi in Kenya. The orphanage cares for children providing them with education, meals, clothes medicine and accommodation. The collection points in the North Kerry area are Listowel in the Supervalue car park on Wednesday July 5th 9am to 1pm. Ballybunion, Supervalue car park Wednesday July 5th 9am to 1pm, Ballylongford, in the village car park, bottle bank on Wednesday July 5th 9am to 1pm. Tarbert, outside Primary School on Wednesday July 5th 9am to 1pm. DO YOU KNOW YOUR NEIGHBOUR: At a time when people have so many distractions and time consuming interests in life a sense of neighbour ness is on the decline throughout the country. People are now often too engrossed in the television and home computer culture and the days when people drop into each other houses for a chat or a cup of tea is now almost a thing of the past in many areas. Now Macra na Feirma are making a determined effort to address the worrying trend and are staging a Get to know Your Neighbour weekend on July 15th and 16th. The nationwide campaign is encouraging people to organise an activity over this weekend and invite their neighbours to attend the social event. Local people that are interested in participating in the Know Your Neighbour Weekend can order an information pack by phoning (01) 4268915 or if you are online a pack can be ordered or downloaded at info@knowyourneighbour.ie CLASS RE - UNION: A Re - Union of the classes 1980 to 1985 at Tarbert Comprehensive is presently being planned and will be held at The Lanterns Hotel in Tarbert. Recently invitations were sent out to all the former students that come into this category and full details for the night of nostalgia and celebration will be finalised as soon are the numbers interested in attending has been established. The organisers are asking everyone that has received an invitation to reply to it immediately so that the itinerary for the re - union can be completed. The response to the re - union has been very positive and will be a trip down memory lane for everyone involved. ELECTED: Kerry soccer is in safe hands for another year with San O Keeffe re elected chairman of the Kerry District League at the recent A.G.M. Sean assumed the role at the helm of Kerry soccer last year and over the past year has left his mark on the post with the game enjoying huge popularity throughout the county during his tenure. Sean is also the chairman of the Kerry Eircom League Committee and in this post he had spearheaded the successful path of Kerry 21 team to new heights including a great run in the FAI Cup last season. Sean has also played a pivotal role in the development of the new Kerry District League grounds in Tralee which now has state of the art facilities which are envied throughout the country. Despite all his big commitments at County Board level Sean is also doing Trojan work with the Asdee Rovers club and has been the main driving force behind the development of the fine new facilities which are now in place at Craughdarrig Park. He also has more plans up his sleeve including the development of a second pitch at the grounds work on which will be commencing within the next few weeks. It is a great honour for the local club to have Sean at the top in Kerry soccer and everyone wishes him the very best of luck for the year ahead. KEY TO THE DOOR: A popular Ballynoneen girl got the key to the door at the weekend when she celebrated her 21st birthday. Sinead Breen held at big party at The Store bar in Craughdarrig on Sunday evening to mark the occasion where she was joined by all her family and friends, Plenty pf food and refreshments were served and the evening developed into a very enjoyable social occasion. SUMMER COMPUTER CAMPS: Computer summer camps for 8 - 16 year olds will be held during July in the Ballybunion and Tarbert I.T. Centres, depending on numbers. They will run from 10.30am - 1.00pm four days a week for the first three weeks of July at a cost of ?30 per child. For bookings, please phone Ballybunion 0682888 or Tarbert 06836938. For sponsorship cards Phone 087 9502167. PRAYER MEETING: The Local St Pio Prayer Group will hold their monthly Prayer Meeting at St. Mary's Church on this Thursday evening July 6th at 7pm followed by Mass at 8pm. CORRESPONDENTS GET TOGETHER: Like all Kerryman correspondents I am looking forward to the big get together of all notes writers for The Kerryman which takes place at The Stokers Lodge in Tralee on Thursday night July 13th at 8pm. The social event has been organised by The Kerryman and is a very welcome development which is recognition of the valuable service provided by local correspondents. It will be an opportunity to meet up with all the others correspondents that write for the paper and share ideas and suggestions. Having been compiling this column for the past 24 years now it is nice that there is a social gathering for everyone that is sending in the local news every week which is one of the papers most appealing features. A lot of water has gone under the bridge in Asdee since the very first column written by this writer appeared and while technology may have changed dramatically in recent years people in general still have a great appetite for reading the local notes section of the paper. To many it is the local gospel and to people that rarely go out and socialise and those in other parts of the country and overseas it is a great source of information which keeps them well in touch with everyone in their native parish. GOLF: There was great local disappointment on Saturday that the local Golf Society's outing to Killorglin had to be cancelled owing to a lack of numbers. Unfortunately quite a few players were unavailable due to other commitments while others were away in sunkissed islands in the sun on vacation. However the hard working fixtures secretary Donie O Keeffe pulled a master stroke by organising at Outing at Listowel Golf Club at very short notice. Weather conditions were ideal for the 3 ball scramble competition and some very good scores were recorded. The winners were Geraldine Galvin, Paddy Holly and Mike Rice, 2nd Sheila Aherne, Martina Galvin and Donie O Keeffe, 3rd Jimmy Quinn, Tony Hanlon and Darren Russell. The next outing will be held at Ballyheigue on Saturday July 22nd with teeing off time at 9 30am. OVER 35 CUP: The Asdee Rovers over 35 team wrote another chapter in local sporting history at Tralee on Thursday evening when they won the over 35 Reserve Cup with a fine 2 - 0 victory over Currans. Played at the Kerry District League Stadium, Asdee took control of this game at an early stage and created a lot of good scoring opportunities. Their initiative paid dividends after 20 minutes when Tommy Mulvihill scored a fine goal after a build up involving several players. Currans got back into the game in the second half and began to ask some questions of the Asdee rearguard. However Asdee then put the issue beyond doubt when after a well executed corner kick Mike Hennessy looped a fine header to the net. There was great scenes of jubilation as the captain of the Asdee team was presented with the Cup by the secretary of the Kerry District League John O Regan. The team was Ned Moloney, Mike Hennessy, John Gorman, Mike Higgins, Mike Vallely, Kevin Boyle, Liam Martin, Sean O Keeffe, Tommy Mulvihill, Jimmy Quinn and Mike Griffin. Subs Mike Purtill and Kevin O Callaghan. SOCCER: The curtain came down on another long soccer season at Craughdarrig Park on Sunday when Asdee Rovers bowed out of the Reserve cup going down 2 - 0 to Castlegregory in the quarter final replay. Asdee lined out without several key players so it was always going to be very difficult against a very formidable Castlegregory side. However they battled gamely for 85 minutes of the game but two late goals by the visitors won the spoils in a keenly contested game. The team was Ned Moloney, Kieran Kennelly, John Gorman, Kieran Connolly, Mike Long, Paul O Carroll, Liam Mc Elligott, Kieran Mc Elligott, John Pierse, Eoin Wren, and James Kelly. Subs Charles Dalton and Sean O Keeffe. END OF SEASON FUNCTION: The mark the end of the soccer season the Asdee Rovers club are hosting an end of season social function on this Saturday night at Jesse James Tavern.. It will be a social night out for all the players, officials and supporters with finger food on the menu as well as live musical entertainment. The club will have two fine cups on display this year The Maurice Fitzgerald Cup which they won earlier in the Year in Tarbert and the Over 35 Cup which was won in such great style by the over 35 team on last Thursday night. Everyone that has helped out in any way with the club during the year are welcome to attend. MEETING: A very important meeting of the local soccer club will be held at the clubhouse on this Thursday evening July 6th at 9 30pm. There are some very important issues to be discussed including plans for the development work at the pitch in Craughdarrig and setting a date for the Annual General Meeting of the club. LOTTO: The Asdee Rovers Weekly Lottery Draw was held at Jack J's on Sunday night and the Jackpot was not won. The numbers drawn were 3 - 16 - 17 - 21 . The lucky Dip prize winners were ?50 Ann Marie Collins, Craughdarrig, ?25 Martin Costello, Asdee West, ?25 Brenda Mc Namara, Glouria, Lisselton. Next week's draw will be held at Jesse James Tavern and the Jackpot is ?5,600 G.A.A.: Local derby fever was in the air at Jack Walsh in Tullahinell on Saturday evening with a big crowd attending the County League Division 5 clash between fellow parishioners Asdee and Ballylongford. It brought together sides at the opposite sides of the league table with Ballylongford table toppers and Asdee languishing in the nether regions of the division. However league positions account for little in a local derby and an exciting contest was anticipated. As things turned out it was a typical inter parochial encounter played with a lot of fire and spirit by both sides. While Ballylongford were expected to win this game with relative ease given their league positions they were made fight all the way to achieve victory after a tenacious and gutsy performance by Asdee. The game turned out to be a very keenly contested affair that provided very good entertainment value. While Ballylongford had a lot of possession they squandered several great scoring opportunities kicking a total of 13 wides in all with 8 of those coming during the opening half. The visitors were in charge of proceedings in the early stages of the game and had notched up 1 - 3 after 13 minutes with Asdee yet to register a score. Nevertheless Asdee remained well in contention and a fine goal by Mike Long and a point from John Doran got Asdee right back in the game again trailing 1 - 5 to 1 - 1 at the break. The signs appeared ominous at the start of the second half when Ballylongford came out with all guns blazing and registered a goal and a point without reply from Asdee. However Asdee dug into their reserves of determination and a well orchestrated goal by John Doran threw the game wide open again. Indeed Asdee could have narrowed the game even further but for a splendid save by Ballylongford goalkeeper Patrick O Brien when Cyril looked certain to score a goal. By now Asdee resistance was beginning to decline and the visitors steadied the ships with a couple of points which set them on the way to a hard earned but fully merited victory. Asdee had a top drawer performance from Cyril Dineen while others that performed well included Padraig Ruddle Liam McElligott and John Doran. The team and scorers was James Kelly Dan Dalton Sean Stack Donal O Carroll Brian O Hanlon David O Connor Mike Long 1 - 0 Padriag Ruddle John Doran 1 - 0, Charles Dalton Liam McElligott Miche†l Walsh Paul O Carroll 0 - 1 Cyril Dineen 0 - 3 Brian Coughlan. Subs Niall Doran Jason McElligott Sean Stack and Eamon O Connor The final score was Ballylongford 2 - 10 Asdee 2 - 4 The game was very capably handed by Duagh referee John Halpin. MUNSTER FINALS: The best of luck to both Eoin and John Kennedy who will be hoping to mastermind a Munster Minor Championship Final victory for Kerry over Tipperary in this Sundays Minor Championship final which will be played at Fitzgerald Stadium Killarney. John who is the team trainer has his sporting achievements well documented while son Eoin has been hitting the sporting headlines with his scoring exploits and at the tender age of just 17 has now been making his mark at inter county level giving some sterling performances with the County Minor side and having played an active part in both championship wins over both Tipperary and Limerick. No doubt but the gifted Asdee star has a bright future ahead of him and if given the slightest opportunity could have a huge say in the destination of the Munster Minor Championship Cup. The game will begins at 2pm and will be followed by the Senior Final at 4 pm with the meeting of Kerry and Cork. Fellow parishioner Paddy Kelly of Ballylongford will be on the Kerry senior panel and everyone wishes him the best of luck. It is expected that a large contingent of local support will be travelling to the games. Best of luck Minor and Senior teams. DRAW: Once again the local G A A club are seeking good local support as they begin to promote another Fund Raising Draw. The Draw will be held over a three month period with plenty of cash prizes on offer each month. First prize will be ?200 second ?100 and third ?50 . There will also be plenty spot prizes each night of the draw that will include bottles of whiskey brandy along with meal vouchers. Tickets are priced at ?20 each which will cover the three monthly draws. The first draw will be held at Jack Jays on Saturday July 15th. TICKETS: The distribution of tickets for Sundays Munster Senior and Minor Football finals will take place at the Community Centre on this Thursday at 9pm. It is important to note that all fully paid up club members will get priority and also match tickets given out must be paid for on the night. SHANNON RANGERS: The Shannon Rangers minor footballers will take on Feale Rangers in round 1 of the County Minor Championship at Walsh Park Asdee on Tuesday July 11th with a starting time of 7 30 pm This promises to be a cracking contest between these two North Kerry sides. FIXTURES: The draw for the North Kerry Intermediate Championship will take place at the next North Kerry Board meeting. The local senior team will be taking part and will be hoping to go one better this year and lift the title. Teams taking part this year will be Asdee A, Clounmacon Ballyduff B Listowel Emmets B Moyvane B Beale B Ballylongford B Desmonds B Asdee B will be taking part in the Novice Championship and they too will be hoping to go all the way this year having lost the final last year to Knockanure. The teams competing will be Asdee B Clounmacon B Gale Rangers Knockanure Emmets C No date has been set for our Junior teams clash with Knocknure in the County Novice Shield. Seniors next outing in the County League Division 5 will be a home game against Cromane on weekend of July 30th. It is hoped to get our local tournament games underway during the next few weeks for the Jack Walsh Peter Stack and Rosemary Scully Cups. FLASHBACK: Kevin O Callaghan had the distinction of leading the Asdee Senior Footballers to victory over Ballydonoghue in round one of the North Kerry Championship 1996, a feat that has never been accomplished since the formation of the club and in fact never since. Asdee in 1974 played their first North Kerry Junior League game in Listowel against the locals winning on a score of 7 - 15 to 2 - 4. Leading scorer on the day was Mike Doyle with 3 - 4. A record that was never equalled in the club since. The first Senior winning side was the defeat of Finuge in the County League on Wednesday July 15 th 1992. The side was captained by J P McElligott who was vice captain. Gerard O Carroll captain was ruled out through injury. John Kennedy got Asdee's opening score. Asdee v Clounmacon North Kerry League game in 1990 marked a special occasion for Clounmacon as it was their first game in their new pitch. TINTEAN THEATRE: TOM CREAN Antartic Explorer: Due to unforseen circumstances Aidan Dooley's performance of the award winning play Tom Crean (Tintean July 10-15) is deferred to a later date. Please watch local press for details of re-scheduled performances. Ballyduff IRISH NIGHT: The Ballyduff branch of Comhaltas Ceóltóirí Éireann will hold an Irish Night at Browne's Bar Ballyduff on Saturday next July 8th. All muscians, singers, dancers, storytellers etc. are welcome to come along on the night where a warm welcome awaits you. UNDER 14 HURLING: Congratulation to the Ballyduff Under 14 hurlers who won the County League Division 1 title in dramatic fashion at Causeway on Friday evening last with a 4 - 9 to 5 - 5 victory over arch rivals Kilmoyley. In what was the best game seen at this level for a long time Ballyduff pulled the game out of the fire with a last gasp goal in the third minute of injury time to win by a one point margin. The Ballyduff team lined out as follows; Nicholas Leen, Kevin O'Grady, Cathal White, Kevin Lynch, Dean O'Grady, Anthony O'Carroll, Keith O'Carroll (Capt), Jason Bowler (0-1), Eric O'Connor (0-2), Pat Joe Connolly, Pádraig Boyle (0-1), Kevin Bowler, Kevin O'Connor (1-5), Liam O'Brien (1-0), Evan Doyle (2-0). Subs: Nicholas Burke, David Goulding, Pádraig Slattery, Kieran O'Grady, Jonathan Ross, John Costello, Daniel O'Connell, Owen Douglas. Well done also to team mentors Diarmuid O'Carroll, Tomás O'Sullivan, John O'Grady and Barry O'Grady. ACTIVE RETIREMENT: Ballyduff Active Retirement Group as well as arranging a week exploring places around Dungarvan (now safely back in Co. Waterford) in September (and which you are welcome to join them for) have also arranged a day trip to the Burren in Co. Clare on Monday July 31st. See any member of the group of would like to join in this full day trip. It includes lunch at the Falls Hotel Ennistymon, other refreshments, scenic drives and visits to several places of interest. Cost 60. JUNIOR FOOTBALL: Ballyduff won the North Kerry Junior football final on tuesday June 27th with a 3-11 to 0-10 victory over Beale. They won this game in great style playing good flowing football. This team have played 13 games so far this year and are still unbeaten. They have also quaified for the county junior football league quarter final due to be played on this Friday evening at 7.30pm. It is Ballyduff's first year playing in this competition. Please come along on Friday evening and support the juniors. Many thanks to everybody who has helped in any way. Summer Youth Festival at Knock: This event for people aged 15 to 35 will take place from Thursday 27th July to Sunday 30th July. The festival is a joint effort of Youth 2000 and Knock Youth Ministry. Don't miss this opportunity for a fun and life-changing experience of the Catholic Faith led by young people. There is no charge - donations only. Bring a sleeping bag. Further details - www.youth2000.ie <http://www.youth2000.ie> or 01 6753690. Fixtures: Wednesday July 5th, County U16 Football League, Tarbert v Ballyduff at Tarbert, 7.30pm Thursday July 6th County U12 Football League Kenmare/Kilgarvan v Ballyduff at Glenflesk 7.00pm Thursday July 6th North Kerry Minor Football League Duagh v Ballyduff at Duagh 8.00pm Friday July 7th County Junior Football League Quarter-Final, Ballyduff v Brosna at Ballyduff, 7.30pm Saturday July 8th 2005 North Kerry U13 Football Final Ballyduff v Listowel at Coolard 7.00pm Tuesday July 11th North Kerry Minor Hurling League Causeway v Ballyduff at Causeway 6.30pm Wednesday July 12th County U16 Football League Ballyduff v Asdee/Ballylongford at Ballyduff 7.30pm Thursday July 13th North Kerry U13 Hurling League Ballyduff v St. Brendans at Ballyduff 6.30pm Thursday July 13th North Kerry Minor Football League Ballyduff v Knock/Brosna at Ballyduff 8.00pm Friday July 14th County Junior Football League Semi-finals to be announced. Na Leanai After School Club: A big thank you to all the children involved in the production of the ŒUnderwear Scare‚ and ŒSnow White‚ which was held in the Tintean Theatre Ballybunion. It was an amazing show and the children were absolutely brilliant. Thanks to all who helped out with the show. Video of the show for sale cost 6.00 Summer Camps: Camps starting Monday 3rd July through to Friday 1st September. A range of activities on offer from arts & crafts, drama & music, sports, pool & water play, bouncy castle & obstacle courses, cooking, puppet making and lots lots more. You can avail of a weekly, 3 day or daily rate to suit your needs. Discounts on offer for children from same families and for medical card holders reasonable rates available. Contact Tee, Gemma or Zoë on 066-7148898 for any bookings or queries or why not call in if your passing (we are next door to Killury N.S. Causeway). CAMOGIE NEWS: Congratulations to all the girls who took part in the blitz in Kilmoyley on Sunday 2nd July. This was a great day for the girls with everyone getting a chance to play. Thanks to their parents, families and friends for their support and encouragement also thanks to Killard club for their hospitality. U-8 Mary Ann Whyte, Rachel Kiely, Aideen Casey, Sinead Leen, Erin Rowan, Claire Murphy, Aoife O‚Connor, Ciara Kate Canty. U-10 Kerrie‚O Shea, Sorcha Dineen, Muireann Brassil, Norann Gilbert, Nora Mary Kearney, Andrea Hanly, Niamh Leen, Louise Hobbert, Sinead Fealy, Grace Costello. U-12 Katie Casey, Patrice Diggin, Sara Murphy, Laura Murphy, Marliza Dwyer, Ann Marie Leen, Michelle Gilbert, Aine Donegan, Marian Leahy, Sinead Brassil, Nicole Whyte, Tracey Dooley, Sarah Casey, Isabelle O‚ Connor, Lorraine Hobbert, Melissa Kiely, Maire Barrett. Training will continue every Wednesday night from 6 to 7 p.m and every Saturday from 11a.m to 12 noon in the sports field Causeway. New members welcome to come along and join in the fun. Ballymacelligott Ballymacelligott Parish Cemetry Masses 2006 - O'Brennan Cemetry at 8pm July 10th. Ballyseede Cemetry at 8pm July 17th. Clogher Cemetry at 8pm July 31st - All welcome Friends of KGH - The friends of KGH would like to thank all those who attended the meeting in Kielduff community centre which was addressed by Mr Tom McCormack who gave a talk on health matters. Also thanks to the committee and caretaker of the hall and the ladies that supplied tea & cakes. See you all at the dog track on July 7. BALLYMACELLIGOTT GAA Lotto Results - Jackpot still not won it will now be at E10,150 for next draw at Glenduff Hse. The no's drawn were 2,14,18,27 and the lucky dip winners were Denis O'Shea, Crus Bauschlicher, TD Allman, J Dreelan, Margaret Hanafin with the sellers prize to Ballymacelligott PO. If you are not in you can't win, tkts from all usual agents. Riocht Lotto - The monthly draw is to take place this Friday 07 July 2006. Tkts available from Ballymacelligott PO. Ballymac Handball - Two of our local girls Ashley Prendeville [Ballydwyer] and Maebh Prendeville [Ballydwyer], put up some great performances at the One Wall Nationals in Sligo last weekend. Ashley had a long weekend, winning two games on the Saturday, setting her up for the Ladies Open Final against Marianna Rushe [Roscommon] on Sunday. The Roscommon girl beat her over two games, to claim first prize in a very tight encounter. Maebh went down in the Semi Final of the girls U16 Competition, where Laura Mannion [Roscommon] just pipped her by three aces. The two sisters, who are playing one wall in the World Championships next August in Edmonton, showed that they will be a force to be reckoned with in the Maple Leaf Country. The Community Games Munster Semi Finals are set for next weekend-Saturday July 8th in Rathkeale, where Balymacl have two Teams involved: U15 Girls-Fiona Griffin [Gortshanavalla], Aine Casey [Gortalea], Hazel Prendeville, Lorraine Horan [Ballydwyer]; U13 Girls- Ciara Griffin [Gortshanavalla], Cornelia Prendeville, Nicola Horan, Laura Keane, Anna Prendeville [Ballydywer]. The Annual Tom O Connor Tournament will take place on Sunday July 16 at Ballymac Handball Alley. Entry fee is E10 for adults and E5 for players 18 and under. All entries to be returned to Brendan O Connor by Saturday July 8th.This will be an Open Doubles Competition, players will be seeded and doubles pairing will be decided in advance by a steering committee. Names must be in by the deadline to facilitate pairings and draws etc. Starting time will be 11am: Playing format dependent on entries e.g.-timed games or best of two. All entrants must be registered members of registered Clubs. Summer Camps will be held at the Club on 18th and 19th July. Forms available at the Club-cost is E10 per day. A more detailed rundown of games/events during the week are available, in the Sports Section of The Kerryman.It has the full results of all games during the week, and the details of any forthcoming Fixtures/Events. GAA - Seniors: Our Seniors were unsuccessful last weekend. They were beaten by Kenmare. Coiste Na nOg: Under 16 Co-League - Having been comprehensively beaten by Austin Stacks on a scoreline Austin Stacks 4-6 Ballymac 0-3 we have a bye this Wednesday. Our next game on 12th July is away to Dr Crokes. Under 14 - Our Under 14 footballers are involved in both Castleisland and Tralee district competitions at the moment. We played Churchill last Monday evening away in the Castleisland District 3rd July 2006. We played Ardfert last Tuesday away and Na Gael at home next Monday 10th July in Tralee District Competition. Under 12 - Well done to our Under 12 who played Cordal away last Sunday in the County League (Group G) they won on a scoreline of Ballymac 7-12 to Cordal 1-01. Our final game is at home to Keel next Sunday. However due to the Munster Final this game may be re scheduled. Under 8/Under 10 - Well done to both teams who played at home in a challenge match with Na Gael last Sunday. These games generate fantastic grit, determination and fun for both players and mentors and parents alike. SOCIAL EVENING Another great evening of entertainment is planned for Friday 7th July in St. Brendan’s Community Centre, Ballymacelligitt from 9.30 to 12. Music will be provided by the one and only Johnny Barrett. Tea and home baking will be served. 
