sport football
{  
    December 05 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/sport/other-sports/sports-star-students-awarded-scholarships-by-it-27547910.html }
THE INSTITUTE of Technology Sligo today launched its new Sports Scholarship Scheme for athletes and players attending the Institute. Speaking at the press launch, when he presented sporting scholarships to 12 young sporting stars, former international goalkeeper and FAI Technical Director Packie Bonnar said that: "Having opportunities in education for our top sports people is very important to ensure a balanced development of the athlete’s sporting and working career." Highlighting the fact that he himself completed his studies prior to undertaking his professional soccer career in Scotland, Packie praised IT Sligo for this exciting and new initiative. The scholarships are open to students who have the qualifications for a full-time course at Institute of Technology Sligo and the ability or potential to excel in their chosen sport. Institute of Technology Sligo launched the Sports Scholarship Programme this year to nurture talented sportspeople who have the ability to study and commit themselves to the IT Sligo sports club in their discipline. They are expected to represent IT Sligo in third-level competitions and to satisfy academic requirements. The programme also aims to encourage personal development through sport for all students and to promote a drug-free philosophy. Presenting students with their Sports Scholarship certificates, Packie Bonner said "they represented the leading edge of the Institute in terms of the example that can be shown to others both on the field of play and also in the classroom." Seven men and five women, from seven counties, were awarded scholarships in the current year. They are: Katrina Connolly, Sligo, ladies soccer; Alan Costello, Mayo, men’s gaelic football; Diane O’Hora, Mayo, ladies gaelic football; Deirdre Hopkins, Longford, athletics; Joseph McCann, Roscommon, handball; Annette McGeeney, Roscommon, camogie; Sean Purcell, Roscommon, men’s soccer; Neil McGee, Donegal, men’s gaelic football; Mazzarello Sweeney, Donegal, ladies soccer; Noel McHugh, Galway, handball; David Warde, Galway, men’s gaelic football; Declan McKillop, Antrim, hurling, Students receive a monthly payment, as well as mentoring, training and non-financial support under the Scholarship Programme. It is hoped that the payment will relieve students of the necessity to get part-time work, leaving them free to train and participate in their sport. The scholarships apply to a wide range of competitive and non-competitive sports. For the academic years 2003/2004 and 2004/2005, the scholarships will be open to existing IT Sligo students. After that, only new students will be eligible. Profile of Institute of Technology Sligo Sports Scholarships Holders - Joe McCann - Age: 20; Course: Environmental Science; County: Roscommon, Sport: Handball, Honours: U-19 and U-20 national champion Interests: Stamp Collecting and Reading; Ambition: To win the senior 40x20 title. Favourite Sports Person: Barry Fallon. David Ward - Age: 19. Course: Health Science and Physiology; County, Galway Sport: Gaelic Football, Honours: Hogan Cup medal with St. Jarlath’s, All-Ireland League medal IT Sligo. Interests: Snooker, reading and swimming. Ambition, To play senior football with Galway. Favourite Sports Person, Roy Keane. Deirdre Hopkins - Age: 20 Course: Nat Dip Business Studies with Recreation and Leisure. County: Longford Sport: Athletics/Cross-Country, Honours: National HESP Cross-country champion 2002 and 2003. Represented Ireland in World Mountain Running Championships 2000 and 2001. Ambition, to represent Ireland at International level in cross-country. Favourite Sports person, Sonia O'Sullivan. Katrina Connolly - Age: 22. Course: Nat Dip Business Studies with Recreation and Leisure. County: Sligo; Sport: Soccer. Honours; 2 senior international caps combined Irish Colleges in Korea College all-star. Interests: Soccer, football, basketball, socialising. Ambition: To win the All-Ireland Colleges League and Cup with IT Sligo Favourite Sports Person: Packie Bonner. Alan Costello - Age: 18; Course: Bachelor of Business Studies; County: Mayo. Sport: Gaelic Football. Honours: Connacht Minor League and Championship. 3 Connacht Schools. Mayo U-19 to U-21. Interests: Gaelic football, tennis, swimming. Ambition: To play senior football with Mayo. Win Senior All-Ireland Sigerson Medal with IT Sligo. Favourite Sports Person: Neil McGee. Declan McKillop - Age: 24. Course: Bachelor of Business Studies. County, Antrim. Sport: Hurling. Honours: 2 U-16 All-Irelands Ulster Colleges. All-Star 2 Senior Ulster Titles. Interests: Sport of all types. Ambition: To win senior and club all-Irelands Favourite Sports Person, DJ Carey. Sean Purcell - Age: 18. Course: Nat Dip in Recreation and Leisure; County, Roscommon. Sport: Soccer. Honours: International schoolboy caps Caption for Ireland Schoolboys Numerous Connacht Cups. Interests: Playing soccer, music, golf. Ambition: To become a full-time professional soccer player. Favourite Sports Person: Roy Keane. Diane O’Hora - Age: 27 Course: Bachelor of Business Studies. County: Mayo. Sport: Gaelic Football. Honours: Captioned Mayo to first All-Ireland title in 1999 3 All-Ireland medals 1 National League title 2 Inter-provincial titles 2 All-Star Gaelic / 1 All-Star Colleges Soccer 3 National Sports Star of the Week Awards. Recipient of Mayo People of the Year Award. Interests: Boating, Sailing. Ambition: Be part of IT Sligo team to win the O’Connor Cup. Be part of Mayo team in 2004 to win ‘three in a row’. Favourite Sports Person: Peter Canavan. Neil McGee - Age: 18. Course: Construction Studies. County: Donegal. Sport: Gaelic Football. Honours: Minor Championship 1999. County Championship 2002. All-Ireland Vocational School Gaelic All-Ireland Gaeltacht. Interest: Sleeping. Ambition: To qualify from Construction Studies Favourite Sports Person: Alan Costello. Mazerello Sweeney - Age: 21. Course: Bachelor of Business Studies. County, Donegal. Sport: Soccer. Honours: Irish Under-18s REP Irish Universities REP 3 All-Stars WSCAI All-Ireland Junior Gaelic medal 2003. Ambition: To win Premier League and Intervarsity with IT Sligo. To play Senior International Soccer. Favourite Sports Person: Henrick Larsson, Roy Keane. Annette McGeeney - Age: 21. Course: Nat Dip Business Studies with Recreation and Leisure. County: Roscommon. Sport: Camogie Honours: 2 Connacht medals with Roscommon. Junior All-Ireland medals in football Combined Colleges Team 2001. Holder of the Ashbourne Shield. Interests: Camogie, Football, Socialising. Ambition: To achieve great results in both studies and sport with IT Sligo. Favourite Sports Person: Setanta O’Halpin. Noel McHugh - Age: 19. Course: Nat Dip Health Science and Physiology. County: Galway. Sport: Handball. Honours: World U-19 Singles Champion. Interests: Swimming, playing pool. Ambition: To be a Physical Education teacher. Favourite Sports Person, Handball player Tony Healy. Represented Ireland in World Mountain Running Championships 2000 and 2001 Ambition: To represent Ireland at international level in cross-country Favourite Sports Person: Sonia O’Sullivan Katrina Connolly Age: 22 Course: Nat Dip Business Studies with Recreation and Leisure County: Sligo Sport: Soccer Honours; 2 senior international caps combined Irish Colleges in Korea College all-star Interests: Soccer, football, basketball, socialising Ambition: To win the All-Ireland Colleges League and Cup with IT Sligo Favourite Sports Person: Packie Bonner Alan Costello Age: 18 Course: Bachelor of Business Studies County: Mayo Sport: Gaelic Football Honours: Connacht Minor League and Championship 3 Connacht Schools Mayo U-19 to U-21 Interests: Gaelic football, tennis, swimming Ambition: To play senior football with Mayo Win Senior All-Ireland Sigerson Medal with IT Sligo Favourite Sports Person: Neil McGee Declan McKillop Age: 24 Course: Bachelor of Business Studies County: Antrim Sport: Hurling Honours: 2 U-16 All-Irelands Ulster Colleges All-Star 2 Senior Ulster Titles Interests: Sport of all types Ambition: To win senior and club all-Irelands Favourite Sports Person: DJ Carey Sean Purcell Age: 18 Course: Nat Dip in Recreation and Leisure County: Roscommon Sport: Soccer Honours: International schoolboy caps Caption for Ireland Schoolboys Numerous Connacht Cups Interests: Playing soccer, music, golf Ambition: To become a full-time professional soccer player Favourite Sports Person: Roy Keane Diane O’Hora Age: 27 Course: Bachelor of Business Studies County: Mayo Sport: Gaelic Football Honours: Captioned Mayo to first All-Ireland title in 1999 3 All-Ireland medals 1 National League title 2 Inter-provincial titles 2 All-Star Gaelic / 1 All-Star Colleges Soccer 3 National Sports Star of the Week Awards Recipient of Mayo People of the Year Award Interests: Boating, Sailing Ambition: Be part of IT Sligo team to win the O’Connor Cup Be part of Mayo team in 2004 to win ‘three in a row’ Favourite Sports Person: Peter Canavan Neil McGee Age: 18 Course: Construction Studies County: Donegal Sport: Gaelic Football Honours: Minor Championship 1999 County Championship 2002 All-Ireland Vocational School Gaelic All-Ireland Gaeltacht Interest: Sleeping Ambition: To qualify from Construction Studies Favourite Sports Person: Alan Costello Mazerello Sweeney Age: 21 Course: Bachelor of Business Studies County: Donegal Sport: Soccer Honours: Irish Under-18s REP Irish Universities REP 3 All-Stars WSCAI All-Ireland Junior Gaelic medal 2003 Ambition: To win Premier League and Intervarsity with IT Sligo To play Senior International Soccer Favourite Sports Person: Henrick Larsson Roy Keane Annette McGeeney Age: 21 Course: Nat Dip Business Studies with Recreation and Leisure County: Roscommon Sport: Camogie Honours: 2 Connacht medals with Roscommon Junior All-Ireland medals in football Combined Colleges Team 2001 Holder of the Ashbourne Shield Interests: Camogie, Football, Socialising Ambition: To achieve great results in both studies and sport with IT Sligo Favourite Sports Person: Setanta O’Halpin Noel McHugh Age: 19 Course: Nat Dip Health Science and Physiology County: Galway Sport: Handball Honours: World U-19 Singles Champion Interests: Swimming, playing pool Ambition: To be a Physical Education teachers Favourite Sports Person: Handball player Tony Healy 
