sport football
{  
    March 04 2010 03:05 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/temp/grass-roots-27712477.html }
SARSFIELDS: Competitive action at adult level for the year gets under way with a double bill in Enniscorthy on Saturday next, taking on Starlights in Premier A and Division 2 at 3 and 4.30 p.m. respectively. The Seniors have been drawn in a championship group with Shelmaliers, Clongeen and Duffry Rovers, while the second string will be campaigning in the Wexford District Junior ‘D’ championship. The club lost seven players in all, six to St. Joseph’s and one to Glynn-Barntown, in adult transfers. Two former players returned, so we say welcome back to Jim Berry and Neil Howlin, and we also extend a first-time welcome to newcomers Kyle Dempsey and Leigh Smith. At under-age level, we welcome Under-14 player Jack Crean to the club along with two Minors, Killian Halligan and Craig Kearney. The Minors are away to Cuchulainns (Castletown and Réalt na Mara) in Tomnahely on Sunday, March 14, at 11 a.m., and at home to HWH-Bunclody on Friday, April 2, at 5.30 p.m. The Juveniles are away to Starlights on Sunday, April 11, at 11 a.m., and at home to St. Martin’s on Sunday, April 25, at the same time. Best of luck to our Under-12s who will play a mini-game against Monageer-Boolavogue in Wexford Park at half-time in Sunday’s Allianz Football League game against Sligo which begins at 1 p.m. We hope they enjoy themselves and that it will be the first of many appearances for them in the county ground. There are two club registration nights next week, at 7.30 p.m. on Monday for Under-12, Juvenile and Minor, and from 6.30 to 7.45 p.m. on Tuesday for Under-14. Last week’s quiz: After Peter Doyle in 1970, the next clubman to play with Wexford in the Leinster Senior football championship was John Curtis when he lined out at left half-back against Kilkenny in Nowlan Park on May 10, 1981. This week’s question: What was the name of the neighbouring club which Paco Sheehan joined from when Sarsfields re-formed in 1951? Why not check out www.sarsfields.leinstergaa.com for the latest club news? CLONARD Under-age training continues as normal this week. Under-8s and -10s every Wednesday 6-7 p.m., Under-12s and -15s, 7-8 p.m. in St. Peter’s College sports complex. Please enter through the Belvedere Road entrance. Any outstanding membership is now overdue. Please bring it along to indoor training, €10 and membership form. New members are always welcome. Please feel free to come along and join in to see what we are all about. Under-14 hurling training continues in the field this Sunday from 11 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. Please bring your hurl and helmet. Adult training continues in the rugby club on Friday at 8 p.m. Our football league campaign starts this weekend with the first team out against Geraldine O’Hanrahans in Coolcotts at 4.30 p.m. on Saturday. The second team will play St. Pat’s in Coolcotts on Sunday, again at 4.30 p.m. With both games at home, we will hope to get the year off to a winning start. Membership is now overdue and all players (€110) will have to be paid up if they wish to play in the league this year. Non-playing members (€20) are also urged to ensure that they pay their membership. Any questions or queries, please contact membership Secretary John Cleary on 086-1620904. Anybody wishing to purchase club gear for the coming year, please contact Joe Sheehan to place an order. ST. MARY’S (ROSSLARE) There was no winner of the lotto jackpot for February 22. The numbers were 7, 9, 14, 23 and bonus 36. We had no match three winner. Next week’s jackpot is €9,800. Membership for 2010 is now due for all. A reminder that all managers and selectors must pay membership to be involved with a team. Also, all players cannot play unless they have paid their membership. Membership can be paid in full or by standing order. For further information, please contact Kevin Power (087-2239860) or Trish Kavanagh for under-age (087-2771168). The start of the under-age championships is this coming weekend. Our Under-16s have a bye in the opening round. Our adult football teams ‘kick’ into action this coming weekend. The following are the fixtures: Intermediate v. St. Martin’s, Saturday, 3 p.m. in Tagoat; Junior v. St. Joseph’s B, Saturday, 4.30 p.m. in Tagoat. The draws for the adult championships were made during the week, and the following are the details - Intermediate football Group B: St. Mary’s (Rosslare), St. Patrick’s, Réalt na Mara, Blackwater. First round v. St. Patrick’s. Intermediate hurling Group B: St. Mary’s (Rosslare), Monageer-Boolavogue, Shamrocks, Geraldine O’Hanrahans, Craanford. First round v. Monageer-Boolavogue. A new G.A.A. booklet has become available and is on sale through the club. This book gives every child a chance to win some great prizes and also educates the child on all aspects of the association (on and off the field). There are loads of competitions to be entered and won. This booklet is designed to interest children of all ages with colour recognition, geography tasks, spelling and team colours. The book costs €5 and is available from Trish Kavanagh (087-2771168). All players are encouraged to purchase their copy early to avoid disappointment. Best wishes to Pat Brannigan and Aaron Kavanagh who are part of the Carlow I.T. hurling panel competing next weekend in the Ryan Cup hurling semi-finals in Galway. Hard luck to Robert Butler who was part of the D.I.T. team beaten in the Fitzgibbon Cup quarter-final last week. Hard luck to David Murphy and Gavin Morris who were part of the Wexford football panel beaten by Carlow on Sunday last in the O’Byrne Shield final. David is captain of the team this year. Anyone who bought lotto tickets in Tagoat post office can now buy them in the XL shop in Tagoat. BANNOW-BALLYMITTY Bingo this week is €725 and takes place in Carrig Hall on Saturday at 8.30 p.m. The Senior footballers had their first match of the season in Grantstown on Saturday last. It was the Tommy Murphy Cup quarter-final and they played Gusserane. It could have gone any way, but the boys edged ahead by a point. Saturday next will see the league startin. The Seniors will play Shelmaliers at 3 p.m., followed by the Juniors who will play Clongeen at 4.30 p.m. Congratulations to David Currid and Ben Brosnan who will be captain and vice-captain for the year. Please check press for more details. The championship draws took place last week - Senior football: Kilanerin, Adamstown, Glynn-Barntown; Junior C football: Duffry Rovers, Gusserane, Starlights, St. Joseph’s, Shelmaliers; Junior hurling: Gusserane, Shelmaliers, Our Lady’s Island. Please return the direct debit forms to either your bank or Pauline. Membership is being collected at the moment. All enquires to David Staunton or any club officer. Ticket sales are going well, and there are only two weeks until the draw. Please return your tickets and monies to any club officer or all ticket sellers meet on Mondays between 9.30 and 10 p.m. Let’s get out and sell like mad for the last two weeks. It is very important to get these tickets in for the preparation of the draw. Thank you for your co-operation on this matter. You can still sign up to the Vodafone signyourgaaclub.ie for the club to receive 5% of your top-up or off your bill. The McDonald Fire Fund challenge match that was to take place this Wednesday night has been postponed until Easter Monday at 5 p.m. in Oulart. Wexford will play Kilkenny, and tickets can be got from the officers of the club. Any enquires to joeanne2@gmail.com. BLACKWATER The Blackwater dinner dance (and medal presentation) will take place on Saturday, March 13, in Hotel Curracloe. Tickets cost €25 per person and are available from any committee member or from Liam Buttle. All are welcome. Training for Minor and Juvenile hurling and football will take place on Sundays at 9.45 a.m. in the pitch. All players are asked to attend. Minor and Juvenile football training has also resumed and will continue every Wednesday between 8-9 p.m. Senior training has also resumed and regular times have still to be decided upon. The championship group draws took place last week in both hurling and football. Blackwater were drawn in a group with Buffers Alley, Ferns and Cushinstown in the Senior hurlin, while the Intermediate footballers were drawn in a group with Ballygarrett, Rosslare and St. Patrick’s. No dates have yet been set for the championship. Congratulations and good luck to Dean Wright who is on the county Minor football panel on Saturday next when they play away to Louth. The club would like to wish him and the team the best of luck. There was no winner of the local lotto and the numbers drawn were 5, 14, 17, 30 and the bonus was 31. The seven lucky dip winners were Tom Cloake, Noel Kelly, John Murphy, Dolores Gordon, Eddie Rowe, Brian Redmond and P.A. and E O’Connor. The next draw will take place in Whelan’s lounge on March 19. The jackpot now stands at €13,200. FAYTHE HARRIERS The draws for the adult championships were made during the past week. Our Senior team were drawn with Cloughbawn, Rathnure and Oylegate. This is a tough draw for the lads but we will be hoping to finish in the top two to qualify for the county quarter-finals. We defeated Cloughbawn in the championship last year but the Clonroche men went on to contest the county semi-finals after that. Rathnure have a wonderful championship pedigree and are always hard to beat, while Oylegate have caused many problems over the past number of years for our Seniors. It is likely that the first games will take place in the middle or towards the end of May. Our Junior team was also handed a tough draw and find themselves in a group with Buffers Alley, Horeswood and Ferns. Again we will be hoping to finish in the top two to qualify for the county quarter-finals. Indoor training for all adult members, from Senior, Junior, Under-21 and down to Minor, continues this week on Wednesday at 7.30 p.m. Training is in the form of circuit training, so anyone training should ensure they wear runners. Any enquiries and details from the respective selectors: Senior, Joe Kearns (086-3856361); Junior A, Colin Keeling (087-6550537); Junior D, Nicky Keeling (086-0832120), and Under-21, Jason Giltrap (087-9533073). The All-County Hurling Leagues are due to commence on the weekend of March 20 and 21. Fixtures and venues etc. should be available within the next week. All players are reminded that they must have their membership paid before they play in the ACHL. The club’s new state of the art, all-weather floodlit arena is open for business and is now available for bookings. Anybody interested in booking an hour on the arena should contact any of the club officers or ring 085-2450136. A number of slots are still available every week. The arena is approximately 80 metres by 40 metres and is available for hire for full pitch length or for smaller groups in smaller areas going across the arena. At this stage all our under-age teams have now returned to training on our new all-weather arena. For details of training times etc., please contact the selectors with the respective teams - Under-8, Ann Slaven (086-8245166); Under-10, Justin Browne (087-2190343); Under-12, Pat Henebery (087-2609958); Under-14, Eoin Ó Donnagáin (086-3873544); Under-16, Brian Gordon (087-9835162); Under-18, Brian Walsh (086-8239537). Anybody with any queries in relation to training, membership etc. should contact one of the above. New members to the club are welcome at all times. The club website is being updated on at least a weekly basis at the moment. If anybody has any articles or photos etc. which they feel could be published on the website, they should contact Richard Murphy. The website can be viewed at www.faytheharriers.com. At the moment, the website contains weekly notes, weekly lotto results, various photos from recent events and details of the all-weather arena schedule. All involved with the club would like to pass on best wishes to Gavin Buggy and ‘Curly’ Lambert who represent Wexford in the Leinster Senior handball doubles final this coming weekend. They had a wonderful victory over Dublin in the semi-final, so hopefully they can go a step further and win the title. GLYNN-BARNTOWN Glynn-Barntown G.A.A. club is celebrating its 125th anniversary this year and will mark this historical milestone with a number of events targeted at increasing participation in the club by the entire parish. First up is the 24-hour fun run challenge to take place from 7 p.m. on Friday, March 12, to 7 p.m. on the 13th. All teams from six years to adult will ensure we run many multiples of 125 miles in 24 hours. All members and newcomers are welcome to test their fitness for half an hour around the club’s walking/running track. Club facilities will be on view over this 24-hour period - please come and join in the fun. Sponsorship cards are available from team mentors and club officers. Details on glynnbarntown.wexford.gaa.ie. The club reunion takes place on March 19 in the Riverbank Hotel at 8 p.m. Tickets are available from committee members. Details on glynnbarntown.wexford.gaa.ie. Next week sees the start of the competitive season with both our football teams in action. On Saturday our Junior team take on Tara Rocks at home at 4.30 p.m., and on Sunday our Seniors are in action away to near neighbours Taghmon, also at 4.30 p.m. Adult players must have membership paid to be eligible for selection for these games. All her team-mates, friends and clubmates will be delighted with the return of Sophie Butler to camogie training. Sophie has battled serious illness for over a year now and her courage is simply an inspiration. It’s great to see her togged out again and playing the game she loves. ST. MARY’S (MAUDLINTOWN) The league campaign begins this weekend for the Intermediate and Junior teams. The Intermediates are away to St. James’ on Saturday with a 4.30 p.m. throw-in. The Juniors are in action the same day, away to Horeswood, with a 3 p.m. throw-in. Players will be notified of any changes in these fixtures. Training for both teams continues in Páirc Charman on Thursdays at 8 p.m. The championship draw was made on Wednesday last, and we were handed a tough group as we were drawn against Kilmore, Kilrush and Kilanerin B. The first round should be getting under way on the last weekend in April or the first weekend in May. Adult membership is now due. Players should collect their direct debit forms from Paul Flood or contact any other committee member. The Under-16 team is in action this Sunday. We will be travelling to Kilrush so all players are asked to be on the Green Wall at 9.30 a.m. The Minor team is playing away to Bunclody on the following Sunday with an 11 a.m. throw-in. Training for the Minor team is on Thursdays in Páirc Charman at 8 p.m. Training for the Under-8, Under-10 and Under-12 teams continues in Páirc Charman every Wednesday at 5.30 p.m. Best of luck to all our teams in action over the weekend. CROSSABEG-BALLYMURN There was no winner of last week’s lotto jackpot and two match three winners, Eamon Doyle and Aisling Grannell. The numbers drawn were 2, 9, 23 and 28. This week’s jackpot is €4,200. Good luck to the Junior ‘B’ Footballers who start their league campaign on Sunday next against Duffry Rovers at 4.30 p.m. in Ballymurn. The Junior hurlers have been drawn in Group A with Taghmon, Duffry Rovers and Geraldine O’Hanrahans for the championship. Adult memberships are now due - €120 for adult players, €60 for students and €50 for mentors and non-playing members. Good luck to the Under-16 footballers who play in the first round of the championship on Sunday away to Glynn-Barntown at 11 a.m. Indoor hurling takes place on Tuesday nights in Crossabeg Community Centre and Ballymurn Hall. Beginners and Under-8s from 6.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., and Under-10s from 7.30 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. Under-age memberships are now due: mentors €50, children €25 for first child and €5 each additional child. ST. JOHN’S VOLUNTEERS The lotto was held in Simon’s Place on Main Street, and the numbers were 4, 5, 12 and 13. There was no jackpot winner. Congratulations to Mary Long who was our only match three winner, winning €30. Next week’s jackpot will be €5,400. Coiste na nÓg Loch Garman in conjunction with the adult board are affording Under-12s the opportunity to play in Wexford Park during the intervals of Senior Allianz League games in both codes. The Volunteers are lucky to be picked and we will play on the dates below. The full details and rules are on our website. Sunday, March 28, Wexford v. Kildare (hurling), 2.30 p.m.: Cloughbawn v. Volunteers; Adamstown v. St. Pat’s. In order to be entitled to the rights of a full member, a person must have their fees paid to the club before March 31. Membership fees are as follows: player, €75; student, €50; non-player, €30. A new membership for parents of all under-age hurling and football is €5 per parent. and can be paid to Linda Cullen, Frank Turner or ‘Chubby’. Their numbers are on the website - www.volunteersgaa.com The times for under-age training to be held at St. Peter’s College are as follows: Under-8s, 6-7 Friday for hurling and football; Under-10s, 6-7 Tuesday for football; Under-10s, 7-8 Friday for hurling; Under-12s, 6-7 Tuesday for hurling; Under-12s, 6 -7 Thursday for football; Under-14s, 7-8 Thursday for hurling and football; Under-16s, 6-7 Friday for hurling. RÉALT NA MARA Ladies’ and girls’ registration will take place on Friday, March 5. Training times for girls later. Under-6 boys’ indoor hurling training is on Fridays from 6.30 to 7.30 p.m. (contact Barry Dench, 087-2894299). Under-8 boys’ hurling training is on Thursdays (contact Mary Higgins, 086-2532013). Under-10 boys’ training, 7-8 p.m. (contact Aidan Wafer, 087-6873538). Under-12 boys, Fridays (contact Murt Fleming, 087-9471903). Under-14/16 boys’, Sunday, 12 noon to 1 p.m. (contact Pat Doyle, 087-6779634). Tuesday, March 16, St. Patrick’s night concert. Anyone interested in entering an act, please contact Jim O’Connor (086-2681830). Ballygarrett clubhouse has now a full bar facility and function room and will be available for parties, holy communions etc. For bookings or enquiries please contact Mary Cooper (087-8111840) or Noelle O’Connor (087-9858746). All club membership is now due for the coming season. The Under-13 boys played their 2009 Winter league final on Sunday last in Ballygarrett against Carnew. It was a tough, hard match and the boys played an excellent game, only losing by a point which was scored in the last minute. Thanks to everyone who helped in any way. The final score was Carnew 3-3, Ballygarrett 0-11. HWH-BUNCLODY The HWH-Bunclody club dinner dance was held in the Millrace Hotel, Bunclody, on Friday night last. Honoured on the night were the Senior football champions of 1985 on the 25th anniversary of their success. Many past players made the journey from all corners of the world, as far away as Long Island, New York. Great craic was had as former players and mentors re-told stories of the the memorable county final year as George Rankin (manager of the team) remembered how players made great sacrifices to capture the county title. The members of the 1985 squad met the next day in Bunclody Golf and Fishing Club for a round of golf and spent a significant amount of time on the 19th hole where a great day and night was had by all. The Bunclody camogie Junior county champions also received their medals, along with the Intermediate football league champions and the Junior ‘B’ hurling league champions. Patsy Furlong was presented with the Teastas Omois award for a lifetime of work and support to the G.A.A. in the parish. The club would like to thank the Millrace Hotel for the great food and service provided, and Ger Doyle, County Chairman, for attending as guest of honour. Vodafone are currently running a promotion where you can donate 5% of your bill to your local G.A.A. club at no cost to yourself. HWH-Bunclody are currently seeking Vodafone customers to sign up to this offer and would like if you could text your name and phone number to 087-7704045 to sign up for the offer. Plans are under way to make a book of the history of the G.A.A. in the parish, and we are requesting people who have photographs and newspaper cuttings to forward them to Liam Kelly Junior. E-mail him on liamkelly23@gmail.com or contact him on 087-7704045 and he will collect them from you. KILRUSH-ASKAMORE Training has started back for the Under-16 team at the pitch in Ballyroebuck on Wednesdays at 7 p.m. The Under-16s have a match on Sunday morning next at 11 a.m. at the Ballyroebuck pitch. All support welcome. Training for the other teams will start back soon, and parents will be notified by text. The Under-12s played in the new Castletown-Liam Mellows indoor facility on Friday night last. Some of the mentors and committee members are doing a course with the Irish Sports Council specifically dealing with the G.A.A’s ‘code of behaviour for all persons working with young children’. If anyone has not registered, please contact Maria O’Rourke immediately, as it is necessary for eveyone to be registered and fees paid to be covered by insurance. CASTLETOWN-LIAM MELLOWS It was with great sadness and regret that the club learned of the untimely death of Michael O’Connor on Saturday last. Michael, originally from Birr, Co. Offaly, and living in Castletown for many years, was a true G.A.A. man and was a loyal and dedicated member of Castletown-Liam Mellows, serving the club in various capacities including committee, team selector and official over the years. Our sincere condolences go to his wife, Mary, daughter, Niamh, and son, Seán. Ar dheis Dé go raibh a anam. MONAGEER-BOOLAVOGUE The lotto was not won in last week’s draw for a jackpot of €2,300. Numbers drawn were 1, 8, 11, 18. There were no less than six match three winners sharing the prize money. Those winners were David Breen, Deirdre Breen, Jimmy Gahan, Mary Daly, Andy Fenlon and Eamon Donohoe. Next week’s draw is for a jackpot of €2,400. Calling all Under-14s - hurling training will resume on Sunday next at 11 a.m. sharp in the field. RAPPAREES-STARLIGHTS Well done to our Under-16 hurlers who beat Na Fianna of Dublin in a practice match over the weekend by two points. Unfortunately, our Under-12s and Under-14s couldn’t follow suit on Sunday, with both of them going down in practice matches to Mount Sion of Waterford. Keep up the good work lads and success will come soon for you. Next weekend sees the start of the All-County Leagues, with our Senior and Junior footballers at home to the Sarsfields at 3 p.m. and 4..30 p.m. respectively on Saturday, and our Junior ‘B’ footballers at home to Tara Rocks at 4.30 p.m. on Sunday. Hopefully, we will get off to a good start as the saying goes ‘tosach maith leath na h-oibre’ or, translated, ‘a good beginning is half the work’. A reminder to all players prior to the commencement of the leagues that your membership is now due and must be paid if you are to be covered by insurance on the field of play. Congrats to Mary Murphy, Pat O’Shea and their team from Social Services who put on a great night for our senior citizens in Bellefield over the weekend, and to Pat Donohoe who celebrated his retirement in the clubhouse with family, friends and fellow performers on Friday night last. Our infamous Liars’ Corner group had a belated Christmas party on Friday night also where many a tall tale was revisited. Congratulations to Marguerite Casey who celebrated a milestone in her life on Saturday night last with a very unusual dolphin theme - dolphins are Marguerite’s passion and the big hall if you pardon the pun was awash with them! Our County Development Draw tickets will be on sale over the coming weeks and we would appeal to all members to do their utmost to make this annual fundraiser a major success by purchasing at least one ticket. Our sincere thanks to Michael Sullivan, our Celebrity Wannabe representative, who entertained the clientele in Hayes’ over the weekend and treated them to a sample of his wonderful talent. A special word of thanks to Tom Morrissey for making his premises available to us to do some fundraising for what promises to be a unique event. Once again I would like to express our gratitude to Michael for agreeing to represent the Rapparees-Starlights and our Player Injury Fund. On Easter Sunday night, April 4, you will get a chance to hear Michael and Matthew Hyland and other local singers as Rapparees-Starlights and the Athenaeum Restoration committee come together to host a night of amazing talent in the complex. Don’t forget, Sunday, March 14, is Mother’s Day and you can treat your Mam to a wonderful four-course lunch in Bellefield and support the Athenaeum’s worthy cause at the same time. Look out for tickets from White’s Electrical and members of the Athenaeum committee. MARSHALSTOWN-CASTLEDOCKRELL The Intermediate footballers make their first appearance of the season as the All-County football league swings into action this weekend. We are at home to Kilmore at 4.30 p.m. this Saturday. All supporters welcome. The men’s training has now been moved from Friday nights to Thursday nights to accommodate the start of the leagues, and therefore training will now be every Tuesday and Thursday from now on in Farmleigh at 7 p.m. sharp. All are welcome and all fitness levels are catered for, so if you are interested in training or starting back, please come along. Camogie training has resumed this week on Mondays and Wednesdays at 7.15 p.m., and the ladies’ football continues on Thursday at 7.30 p.m. Training is in Farmleigh for both codes. All new members welcome. Development draw tickets will be out in the coming weeks, so we urge all members and patrons of the parish to support this initiative. It is our main source of fundraising for the year, and the majority of the money raised actually goes back to the club. Please note that all adult membership needs to be paid this week as the All-County league is starting this weekend. Players cannot play or be considered for teams if their membership is not paid up and this will be enforced. 
