sport football
{  
    December 21 2011 04:21 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/news/sport-picks-27729626.html }
I'M SURE, dear reader, that I wasn't the only one overcome by excitement last week when my colleague, Brendan Lawrence, revealed that the warts-andall story of his life is in the pipeline! However, as he's not a great man for deadlines (!), I reckon it will be next Christmas at the earliest before we find out exactly what it was about that substitute teacher that made him fall down the stairs and break both wrists. In order to fill the gap, I've resigned myself to having a look at some of the recently-published sporting books instead. The first thing to note is the sheer volume of offerings for anyone with even a passing interest in sport. Indeed, when the nominees for the Williamhill.com Irish Sports Book of the Year were announced on November 1, there were 30 contenders on the list, the largest entry since the award was established six years ago. For the purposes of this review, I'm going to concentrate primarily on the books which were kindly made available to me for review purposes by publishers, and my thanks to Collins Press, Gill & Mcmillan, Liberties Press, Irish Sports Publishing, The Liffey Press, Sportsfile and Vision Sports Publishing for their co-operation. I've managed to read 13 books to date that I can give a verdict on, and I have three personal favourites - one apiece from G.A.A., soccer and boxing respectively. Top of the list for me is 'Manlyart-dispatches From Ringside' (Transworld, €14.99) by the late, great George Kimball, the doyen of boxing writers. Many of you will be familiar with his work from the regular column which he wrote for 'The Irish Times' newspaper before his death earlier this year, and this book is a collection of short, snappy articles concerning all aspects of the fight game. The beauty about Kimball's writing style is that you don't have to be a big boxing fan to become engrossed in the subject matter; I should know, I'm a prime example. He paints a colourful and descriptive picture, primarily of the professional scene in his native America and the many rogues, characters and chancers he came in contact with both inside and outside the ring during four decades covering 400 title fights. If you enjoy this wonderful book, don't stop there - get yourself a copy of Kimball's earlier best-seller 'Four Kings' which covers the battle for supremacy between Marvin Hagler, Roberto Duran, Thomas Hearns and Sugar Ray Leonard in the 1980s. And to conclude the boxing theme, I highly recommend Norman Mailer's 'The Fight' which may be purchased in paperback as part of the Penguin Classic series. While this book dates from 1975, it is a timeless masterpiece, focusing on the 'Rumble In The Jungle' in Kinshasa, Zaire, when Muhammad Ali fought George Foreman for the world heavyweight crown. Back to the current day now and my second selection that no sports fan should be without this Christmas - 'Life, Death and Hurling - the Michael Duignan Story (Irish Sports Publishing, €15.99). Written in conjunction with fellow Offaly man and 'Irish Daily Mirror' journalist Pat Nolan, this is a touching account of how the 'Sunday Game' analyst managed to combine life as one of the most well-known faces in hurling with his late wife's long battle with cancer. Some sporting autobiographies have very little to say and focus on bland, safe accounts of what happened on the field. This is the direct opposite, and Duignan is brutally honest as he highlights how he went off the rails after Edel's death and only changed his ways after some of his closest friends forced him to accept he had a problem. The tale of his fraught personal life is interwoven with a frank analysis of Offaly's place at hurling's top table during his own successful career. It's a book that's very difficult to put down, and one that I thoroughly enjoyed. For my third top choice, I move to the world of soccer and Brian Kennedy's excellent 'Just Follow The Floodlights - The Complete Guide To League Of Ireland football (liffey press, €19.95). It's fair to say that the Waterford author is your stereotypical 'fan with a notebook' as his passion for the domestic game shines through in a very entertaining read. Kennedy undertook to pay a visit to every League Of Ireland venue for a game in early 2011, and he writes amusingly about each club in alphabetical order. His brief histories manage to encapsulate their main achievements as well as highlighting many of the characters who have enriched the sport down through the years. And each chapter concludes with a useful club guide giving information on such matters as ticket prices, match programme quality, website, mascots and nearest food and drink outlets. Moving outside my top three but staying with soccer, veteran 'Irish Independent' journalist Seán Ryan is the man behind the updated version of 'Theofficial Book Of The FAI Cup' (Liberties Press,€19.99). This is a statistician's dream for a start as it carries the details of every result and goalscorer in the 90-year history of this competition. However, it's not just a stuffy offering full of facts and figures, as Ryan writes about each campaign and picks some interesting anecdote to bring it to life. If you prefer photographs to the written word, our friends in Sportsfile have come up trumps this Christmas with not one, but three, beautifully-illustrated coffee table books. Their work adorns the pages of this newspaper on a weekly basis, and it may be viewed in all its glory in 'Rhapsody In Blue', a look back at Leinster's Heineken Cup rugby triumph; 'Rare Auld Season', which focuses on Dublin's return from the All-ireland football wilderness after 16 years; and 'A Season Of Sundays 2011', their photographic record of the G.A.A. year which has been published without fail since 1997. While these books will set you back a bit more than the rest, the sheer quality of the photographs make them worth every cent. And in the case of the Leinster rugby and Dubs' books, there are also a number of interviews with the main protagonists, including the exclusive thoughts of Stephen Cluxton on 'that' kick, as told to Alan Milton. If you're a fan of photography and sport, then 'Visions-of-sport-a-celebration (Vision Sports Publishing) is a must-buy. VSP, the leading independent sports book publisher in the UK, have gained access to the Getty Images archive of more than 600,000 photographs, and they have picked the most spectacular for this 184-page hardback treat. The four remaining books I have read all come from the G.A.A. world, and this is where the review takes a negative turn as I reflect on 'Mick Mackey - Hurling Legend in a troubled county 'by henry Martin (collins press,€17.99). The first question to ask is: why the negative connotations in the title? The answer comes from the fact that the author, a Limerick schoolteacher, has already penned 'Unlimited Heartbreak' which sought to portray the county as underachieving and dysfunctional. For anyone who read that previous offering, there is some repetition here, and it's written in the same turgid style where large chunks of the narrative are given over to lengthy quotes with brief interjections from the author. Thankfully, the career of Limerick's greatest hurler was already written about in fine detail almost 30 years ago now by the deceased duo of Seamus O Ceallaigh and Seán Murphy in 'The Mackey Story'. Try to get your hands on that book in your local library rather than this new release which is a disappointment. However, Collins Press have come up with a gem in 'The GAA County By County' by historians Mike Cronin, Mark Duncan and Paul Rouse (€29.99), the latest offering to emanate from the association's oral history project. This beautifully-illustrated book does what it says on the cover, starting alphabetically with Antrim and concluding with Wicklow, outlining the history of each county without resorting to indepth blow-by-blow accounts of past matches. Instead, it emphasises the role played by the G.A.A. in the daily life and general development of each county, with a particular emphasis on the ordinary grassroots members rather than the star figures. Indeed, each chapter concludes with quotes taken from submissions to the oral history project, although some of these are hit and miss since there isn't space to place them all in context. That's only a small gripe though, and the photographs are nothing short of magnificent and worth buying this book for alone. 'Kernan - Without A Shadow Of A Doubt' by Martin Breheny (Irish Sports Publishing,€19.99) recounts the life and times of one of Crossmaglen's and Armagh's best-known figures who also had his fair share of personal traumas, including the death of an infant child and the suicide of his younger brother in Australia. Personally, I would have liked to have read more about Joe's shortlived oneyear stay in charge of his mother's native Galway. However, I did enjoy the contrast between his own early days playing with Armagh when they were close to rock bottom, and his time at the helm when they reached the pinnacle of All-ireland glory in 2002. 'A Parish Far From Home' by Philip O'connor (Gill & Mcmillan, €16.99) will strike a chord with anyone who has relied on the G.A.A. to integrate into a new community in foreign fields as it charts the development of a new football club in Stockholm and their many adventures. Unfortunately, it looks like many more will have to endure that reality in 2012, but it's heartening to know that a warm welcome awaits in so many outposts around the world now from the wider G.A.A. family. O'connor writes with passion on this topic and of course there's a happy ending as Stockholm enjoy a very successful year on the playing fields. The last book I read is 'Deadlock: Dublin v Meath 1991' by my former colleague on the National Camogie Communications Committee, Eoghan Corry (Gill & Mcmillan, €19.99). This one brings back memories as I was sitting in the lower deck of the old Hogan Stand on the day when Kevin Foley's famous late goal and the followup point from David Beggy finally gave victory to Meath in the third replay. I will never forget Foley's goal in particular following a move which started in the Meath full-back line at the Canal End; for me it remains one of the greatest scores I have ever seen, so simple in its final execution and yet so significant. Remember that there was no back door 20 years ago so this four-game saga in the first round of the Leinster Senior football championship really captured the attention of the nation. The author sets the scene by outlining how Ireland's participation in the 1990 World Cup had impacted upon the country, so the timing of this great battle couldn't have been better from the G.A.A'S point of view. Those were four great days in Croke Park, although to really get a taste of the drama that unfolded, I would recommend the compilation DVD, 'The Royal Battle', which was produced on the games in 2006 rather than this book which probably goes overboard on describing the build-up. There you have it, nearly 2,000 words written on sports books for Christmas and I have still merely scratched the surface. I haven't even mentioned horse racing and the autobiographies of A.P. Mccoy and Paul Carberry; Kenny Egan and Barry Mcguigan have stories to tell from the boxing world; while Leo Cullen and Donncha O'callaghan have put pen to paper on their lives in rugby. The choice is truly immense, so here's my final advice: pass a few hints between now and Sunday about how a book voucher would make a great present and, if someone pays heed, get yourself down to the sports section of your local book shop next week and reap the rewards. A cliche it may be, but there really is something for everyone! 
