sport football
{ Lorraine Courtney 
    March 12 2014 11:36 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/lorraine-courtney-putting-the-play-back-into-sport-would-be-a-real-game-changer-for-all-our-children-30088356.html }
THERE are loads of reasons why wanting to be a sports star never appealed to me: lack of talent, zero coordination and having to retire when you've just gotten through puberty.  Brian O'Driscoll is doing his swansong now, at the ripe old age of 35. A few might have sports commentary careers to fall back on, but they only count for about 2pc. And so sensible parents should, you'd imagine, steer their offspring firmly towards other professions, like maybe accountancy, because this is definitely a job for life. You certainly can't say the same about rugby or football. You'll be more than lucky to survive a decade. Ellis Cashmore, a professor of culture, media and sport at Staffordshire University, recently gave an outspoken interview where he claimed that today's children are more likely to win 'The X Factor' than become sports stars and that our society places "too much value" on sport. He said: "We shouldn't be trying to channel all of our energy into this pursuit of excellence in sports when very, very few children are going to succeed at any kind of level at all." He also criticised PE teachers and parents for pushing competitive sport on children. He added: "At football matches, parents treat their children like interns in a concentration camp. I feel like saying to them, 'Your son is trying to enjoy himself, by the way!'" The largest study of participation in sport and exercise ever conducted in Ireland was published just before Christmas. 'Keeping Them in the Game', commissioned by the Irish Sports Council and compiled by researchers from the Economic and Social Research Institute (ESRI), showed that while almost all – it is a bit shocking that it isn't 100 per cent – primary schoolchildren engage in regular sporting activity, it's what happens after that stage that is a major cause for concern. Many children drop out of regular activity during second level, especially girls. School exams have a strong negative impact as students participate less in sport in exam years and this has a lasting effect on whether or not they engage in sports later on in life. We also have the very sad and shocking figures showing that 14.4pc of seven-year-old boys and 21.4pc of girls are either overweight or obese. This epidemic shows that we need sport more than ever. We need sport that is fun, enjoyable and accessible to everyone. The truth is that adults have been enthralled by some whiff of advantage that will give their offspring a quick start in the race for the best life. There are pushier mums and dads today because they really have something to push against. But there is a fine line between pushing too much and not enough. Parents can't project their own ambitiousness on to their children. There's a very real danger that the child will come to reject both the sport and the parent. A heavy schedule of gruelling pre-school coaching during the long, dark winter months is one sure sign you're taking sport too seriously. You see, at worst, that parents' fascination with sporting success can border on abuse. Pushy parents throw their child into a ruthless world of winning and failing before they're ready. Physical shortcomings are revealed at a time when the child is still very vulnerable. And although some children flourish on competition, there are always going to be those who feel publicly humiliated by their inadequacies on the pitch. Those children who aren't brilliant are embarrassed in front of peers as they sit on the bench or are picked last for teams. A zillion adults' self-esteems have been ravaged by what happened or didn't happen on the rugby pitch or football field aged 12. Anyone reading this who was always the last to be picked for the team in the playground? Nobody needs that, particularly if they rarely exercise, are a little bit chubby or feel insecure running about in teeny shorts. There is a place for competitiveness in sport, but more than anything the very best thing a parent can do is open their child's eyes to the widest possible range of activities in the hope that they find something they truly enjoy. And allow their child to make the choice. Irish Independent 
