sport football
{  
    January 31 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/countywide-27369051.html }
ATHLETICS: The beginner group training continues on Saturday morning at 11am in the community centre. Training for the older athletes will take place on Wednesday evening on the track in Castleisland. The bus will leave community centre car park at 6.15pm. Friday evening trainin Listowel ATHLETICS: The beginner group training continues on Saturday morning at 11am in the community centre. Training for the older athletes will take place on Wednesday evening on the track in Castleisland. The bus will leave community centre car park at 6.15pm. Friday evening training continues at 6.30pm in the convent hall. A training development day will take place on Saturday, February 1 from 11am to 1.30pm on the track in Castleisland. There will be a ?2 charge on the day. All experienced athletes should attend if possible. Any queries contact (068) 40316. ST JOHNS: This Wednesday, January 29, 8pm, The RTE Vahbrugh Quartet. Thursday, January 30, 8pm, comedy with Kevin McAleen. Friday, 7pm, January 31, Rumble In The Jungle, childrens puppet show. Thursday, February 6, The Visit. A musical based on travel and emigration, with Sean Tyrrell, Mary O’Malley and Little John Nee. Lyreacrompane THERE was one winner of last weekend’s lotto jackpot of ?2,690 the numbers drawn were 8,10,17, 22. It was won by Kevin Sommers, Lyreacrompane. The ?32 was won by Jackie Lynch, Dromadda, Lyre and the ?20 was won by Ger Buckley, Foildarrig, Duagh. The four sets of free tickets for next week’s jackpot of ?1,000 were won by Mike and Shane Ahern, Lyre, Mary Kennelly, Lyre, K O’Connor, Lyre, and Hannah Roche, Knocknagoshel. Bridget Naughton, Lyre won the bottle of Whiskey and Christy Quille, Lyre won the voucher. EVENING CLASSES: Flower arranging classes are commencing on March 12 at Lyreacrompane Resource Centre on Wednesday nights from 8-10p.m for 6 weeks. There is a limited number of places available. Please contact the Resource Centre (068) 48369 between 9 and 1pm, Monday to Friday. DEATH: The death occurred recently of Mrs Maunie Ahern, Knocknaglough. Predeceased by her husband Michael. Sympathy is extended to her four daughters Helen, Margaret, Julia and Eileen, to her sisters and brothers, sons’ in-law and grandchildren and many relatives and friends. The death also occurred recently of Mrs Mary Roche ne Emperor, Knocknaclare, wife of the late Pat Roche, sympathy is also extended to her entire family, relatives and friends. Moyvane We had a very enjoyable night on Friday last, when our u12 team were presented with their medals for winning their section of the Co league. A large crowd turned up to support and see county star Michael Frank Russell present the lads with their medals and kit bags. Moyvane club wish to sincerely thank Micheal Frank who was most courteous and patient. Well done to the lads, for their great efforts in winning the trophy and lets hope its the first of many. We had refreshments for the adults and children that turned up and all in all, it went off very well. The very best of luck to Micheal Frank, and the rest of the Kerry team for the rest of the year. AGM: The AGM of the Moyvane GAA club will take place on Friday night next, January 31 at 8pm, in the Marian Hall. All members are asked to attend, and of course new members would be especially welcome. PIONER SOCIAL: The N Kerry annual social will be held in the Golf Hotel, Ballybunion on Friday, February 7. Mass at 8.15pm in Hotel, followed by dinner. Music by P J Murrihy and Seamus Shannon. Tickets ?17.50, available from Michael Liston and Mary Kearney and Mary Nolan. SAMARITANS: Would like to thank all who helped with and contributed to their annual collection at Christmas. Helpline open 24 hrs, phone 066-7122566. Enrolment for September 2003 in Presentation Secondary, Listowel, will take place on Saturday next, February 1, between 10am and 12pm. Kerry Counselling Centre, offers support in the following areas, relationships, self esteem, bereavement, self identity, contact 06607122931 for further info. BLOTTO: Being as there was no winner last Thursday night, the jackpot now stands at ?4,600. The winning numbers were 12, 17, 18, 26. There were five match threes, who won ?40 each. Mary Lynch, Aughrim, Mary, Lizzie and Noreen, c/o Nora Fitzmaurice, Sean Curtin, Doon Road, Ballybunion, Anita Daly, Rooster Bar, Dromcollogher, and Marie Wren, Athea. Lucky dips ?20 each John J Murphy, 56 Collins Park, Abbeyfeale, Aoife Moloney Curleys Bar, Listowel, John Kissane, ESb, Tarbert, Aidan Keane c/o Tomas Keane, Moyvane and Catriona Kearney, Tullylease, Co Cork. Free tickers for next draw, Hollys Foodstore, Moyvane, Kara Buckley, Faha, Ballybunion, John Flaherty, Moyvane Village, Pat, Jim and Michael O’Connor, Upper Direen, Athea and Noel Mulvihill, Barragougeen. This Thursday nights draw will be held at bingo in the Marian Hall and the jackpot will be ?4,600. BINGO: Golden line this week, ?800 in 11 calls. Our January draw for a 28 ins widescreen tv takes place this Thursday night. As usual tickets can only be bought at bingo . Newcastle West THE 40th anniversary of the withdrawal of passenger services along the old North Kerry Railway which ran from Limerick to Tralee via Newcastle West and Listowel will be remembers this coming weekend January 31 to February 2. The Great Southern Trail, the organisation dedicated to developing the former railway route as a cycle / walkway, has organised a number of events. Liam O'Mahony, Cathaoirleach of the Great Southern Trail expressed the hopes of the organisers when he said: "It is our fervent wish that these events will encourage all who hold the old railway in affection to indulge in a little nostalgia and to recollect old times. As one who has been a railway enthusiast all my life, I extend a hearty ‘Cead Mile Failte’ to all who wish to celebrate with us and I look forward to a weekend of renewed friendships and good company." On Friday, January 31 at 9pm at Leen's Hotel, Abbeyfeale there will be an informal gathering of former railway personnel, their families and friends. Anyone who travelled on the last train or who has a story to tell is welcome to come along and avail of this opportunity to share some railway memories. On Saturday, February 1 at 2.30pm a visit to Barnagh Tunnel situated at the summit of the Railway line, will take place with assembly at the N21 lay-by, four miles west of Newcastle West. Waterproof footwear and a flashlight recommended. Later that afternoon an Ecological Study of the habitats of Barnagh Tunnel and environs will be launched at the nearby Devon Hotel, Templeglantine at 4pm. Dr John Breen of the Life Science Department, University of Limerick, edited the Study and was grant aided by the Heritage Council. On Sunday, February at 2.30pm a 2.5 mile walk will commence at Ardagh Railway Station to Newcastle West Railway Station. This walk will traverse the railway path 40 years to the day after the last regular passenger train. This stretch of the railway is now operable as a walkway controlled by the Great Southern Trail under License from CIE. Upon arrival at Newcastle West Station at about 4 p.m. Newcastle West Arts Committee will welcome the walkers in appropriate attire. The evening will conclude at the Station House with songs of Percy French. MEDUGORJE: The Newcastle West Medugorje Prayer Group are organising a pilgrimage to Medugorje on August 3 to 10, departing from Cork Airport. For further details contact Paddy Geary at (069) 62443. GAMES: The Annual General Meeting of Newcastle West Community Games and the committee was very disappointed when only seven people attended. The officers elected were — Chairperson, Breda Corbett; Secretary, Ann Doherty; Treasurers, Laurie O'Leary and Tracy Geary; PRO, Hannah Mortell. The next meeting will be held at Dick Darby's on Monday, February 10 at 8.30pm and anyone who would like to get involved is urged to make the effort to attend. Many people volunteer each year to coach and train the children in the sports events, however new blood is always needed since these people cannot be expected to carry on indefinitely. SHOW: The Annual General Meeting of Newcastle West Agricultural Show had a full turnout of all the members and some new members. The Chairperson and Treasurers reported to the meeting and the following officers were elected. President, Billy Hough; Chairperson, Peter Leonard; Vice Chairman, Stephen Nash, VS; Treasurer, Willie O'Regan; Assistant Treasurer, Martin O'Sullivan; Secretary, Ed Lynch. The date for the 2003 Show is Sunday, July 20. ATHLETICS: West Limerick Athletic Club held its annual general meeting at the Rathkeale House Hotel. Lively discussions took place concerning the progress of the club and future development. The 25th anniversary of the foundation of the club will occur in 2004 and a sub-committee was formed to consider ways of marking the occasion. The following officers were elected: Chairperson, Malachy McCarthy; Treasurer, Kathleen Brouder; Secretary, Willie Costello; PRO, Mike MacDomhnaill. Coach and Senior Captain, Joe Chawke; Masters Captain, Pakey O'Riordan. Registrations are now due, ?10 Seniors and ?6 Juniors and should be sent to the Treasurer immediately since the fee incorporates Insurance Cover and no athlete should compete in Championship races without it. The date for this year's 10k race in Adare is set for March 16. ST BRIGID'S WELL: This Saturday, February 1 is the feast of St Brigid, Patroness of Ireland. The Centenary celebrations will take place at St Brigid's Well, Shanagarry, Newcastle West, on that evening, consisting of Rosary by candlelight and prayers. Ceremonies will commence at 8.30pm. As always, a good attendance is expected. RED CROSS: The annual general meeting of the Newcastle West Branch of the Irish Red Cross Society will take place at Dick Darby's, Church Street on Wednesday, February 5 at 8pm. A full attendance is requested. The Branch will be hosting the annual party for the residents of St Ita's Hospital on this Sunday, February 2 at 2pm. Templeglantine Comhaltas musicians, under the direction of Tadhg O Maolcatha, will accompany the members. RETIREMENT: Kathleen's Shoes Maiden Street is to close shortly with the retirement of Con and Kathleen after many successful years in the business. A retirement sale is now on at the shop and Con and Kathleen have expressed their appreciation to all their customers and friends who have supported them down through the years. MACRA: Castleside Macra na Feirme have launched their club programme for 2003. The varied programme includes a visit to the Dog Track in Tralee in February, a club exchange visit, practice for the county rounds of the Dublin City Talent Competition and a weekend away. New members are always welcome and should contact the Recruitment Officer, James Donovan at (087) 9480794. PRESIDENT: Newcastle West Camogie Club Chairperson, Mike Nash, was elected President of the County Camogie Board at a recent County Board meeting. Mike succeeds the legendary Eithne Neville. Rathea/Irremore LOTTO: The blue and gold lotto was not won on Sunday night, January 19. The numbers drawn were 1, 4, 16, 23. Lucky dip winners were ?30 each, Tracey Fitzmaurice, Glenoe, and Oliver Walsh, Halfway. Bottle of whiskey to John B O’Sullivan, Rusheen. The jackpot next Sunday night will be ?7,700. St Senans GAA social will be held on Friday night, January 31 in the Listowel Arms Hotel at 8.30pm. Music by Michael Collins, followed by a disco. MEETING: A players meeting will be held on Sunday, February 2 in the Clubhouse, Mountcoal at 12.30pm sharp. It is very important that all minor, junior and senior players attend. CLUB MEMBERSHIP: All players and members are asked to please pay club membership before March 31. Junior N Kerry c’ship, quarter final result, St Senans 1-7, Duagh 0-11. Team and scorers, Paul Culhane, Eamonn Walsh, Richard Kelliher, Alan Quilter, David Brady, Peter Molyneaux, Denis O’Mahony, John Paul Barry, Conor Keane, Seamus Mulvihill 0-4, Sean Stack, John Quilter 0-1, Brian Fitzmaurice 0-2, Tom Connell, J P Connell 1-0. PRESENTATION FAMILY CENTRE LISTOWEL: Flower arranging course,commences on Thursday, February 6 at 10 to 12 noon. Art club commences on Wednesday, February 6 from 10 to 12 noon. Knitting and crochet club commences on Friday, February 8 from 10 to 12. Creative writing, a series of six workshops will take place on Mondays, beginning February 3 from 10 to 12 noon. For further info, contact 068-23584. LIXNAW JUDO: Congrats to our team members, who competed in judo finals in Cork last weekend. Tracy O’Sullivan 40 kgs gold, Kenny Waltz 30 kgs silver. Well done to both of you. Scartaglin DRAMA: The Scartaglin based Sliabh Luachra Drama Group performed to packed houses on opening night on Friday last and again on Sunday night when they presented “The Country Dressmaker” by George Fitzmaurice. This hilarious three act play being staged at The Cultural and Heritage Centre, Scartaglin is directed by Fiona Brennan who also plays the part of Babe Clohessy in the production. Local members of the cast are Tim Hickey, Geraldine O’Driscoll, Joan Browne, Aileen Reidy, Jerome O’Driscoll, Moira O’Connor, Dermot o’Leary, John Walsh, Sean Maguire and Mary Horgan. Make sure you get a chance to see this production. Its on again this Friday night and Sunday night. LOTTO: Scartaglin GAA Clubs lotto draw for this month will take place in Lyons Bar on this Friday night, January 31. The jackpot will be ™3500 and what a nice start to the New Year, it would be, if some lucky person were to win this nice prize. So the message is buy your ticket on time and make sure its in the drum. Music by Patrick Quinlan. These requested to take charge of Friday nights draw are Michael Cremin, Tim O’Connor and Seamus Riordan. COLLEGES FOOTBALL: St Patricks College, Castleisland played Kenmare at Dr Crokes pitch, Lewis Road, Killarney last week in the semi-final of the Kerry colleges Dunloe Shield Competition. The Castleisland boys had the upper hand in the opening half and led at the interval by 1-5 to 0-5. Kenmare played much better in the second half but even so there was no stopping St Patricks who emerged victorious in the end on a final score of 2-8 to 0-9. Scartaglin boys playing on the St Patricks side were Padraig Reidy, Alan Horan, Bryan Lynch, JJ Murphy and Mike Fitzgerald. St Patricks now play Milltown in the final. BORD NA NOG: Scartaglin Bord na nÓg Club will hold its Agm in the Clubhouse on next Monday night, February 3, at 9pm. All involved in juvenile football in the Parish are asked to attend this very important meeting especially parents of players. This is an opportunity for people and supporters to air their views opinions and criticisms if any. New members will be welcome. WATER SUPPLY: At a recent meeting of Kerry County Council it was disclosed that the Firies/ Scartaglin Regional Water Supply Scheme was one of a number of schemes which have been approved to enter the planning stage. This will be welcome news for consumers in the respective areas. WEDDING: Congratulations to Gillian Baker, daughter of Alan and Ade Desbrow of Scartaglin and Daniel Cronin, son of Patsy and Margaret Cronin of 35 Ardshanavooley, Killarney who were married recently in St Marys Cathedral, Killarney by Fr Liam Lovell, assisted by Fr Tadhg Fleming. The reception was in the Gleneagle Hotel and the couple will reside in Killarney. RETREAT: Scartaglin Legion of Mary will hold their Annual one day retreat in Ardfert Retreat Centre on Saturday, February 8. Bus will leave Riordans Garage on that morning at 9am. Please contact any member of the local Legion of Mary, if anyone is interested in attending this retreat. DEATH: The death occurred recently in San Francisco, USA of Anna Mai O’Connor (formerly O’Sullivan) of Scartaglin. She is survived by her husband Jerome and by her brothers. May she rest in peace. Scuba Diving THE club are organising a few free Try-A-Dive evenings where people will be able to come and try diving for the first time. The programme will consist of a video, lecture and pool session under the guidance of an instructor. Any group or individuals wishing to Try-A-Dive should contact Ronnie at (066) 7139292 or dive@iol.ie for further details and to book their dive experience. The Rescue Diver course was completed over the weekend and while conditions were not at the best it went off very well. The course consisted of videos, lectures and inwater rescue scenarios. It was a very intensive course but was enjoyed by all. The course instructor was Mr Al Stewart. Al is English but has worked for the past few years in Byron Bay, New South Wales as a Professional Diving Instructor. This weekend the Emergency First Respond course is scheduled for Saturday and Sunday, commencing at 10am sharp in the Maharees. This course is an innovative first aid programme with comprehensive instruction in Primary care (CPR) and Secondary care (first aid). Primary care (CPR) prepares students to render aid to those with life threatening emergencies. Secondary care (first aid) builds upon what students learned in Primary Care and helps them assist those in need when Emergency Medical Services are either delayed or unavailable. EFR Primary Care (CPR) addresses immediate life-threatening emergencies. There are eight mandatory and three recommended skills covered in the course. Scene Assessment, Barrier use, Primary Assessment, Rescue Breathing, One Rescue, Adult CPR, Serious Bleeding Management, Shock Management, Spinal Injury Management, Recommended Skills, Automated External Defibrillation, Conscious Choking Adult and Emergency Oxygen Use. The Emergency First Response Secondary Care (first aid) course covers secondary patient assessment and first aid through four skills. Injury Assessment, Illness Assessment, Bandaging, Splinting for dislocations and fractures. Both courses use a combination of Knowledge Development, Skills Development and Scenario Practice to ensure participant knowledge, understanding and application. This course meets the needs for the Health and Safety (first aid) Regulations 1981, the First Aid at Work Approved Code of Practice and Guidance and is open to non-divers. Saturday, February 8, the next advanced diving course is scheduled and anyone wishing to take part should contact Ronnie — more details next week. Tarbert THERE was no winner of the ?7,200 jackpot in the GAA lottery draw, held at Savages Bar on Sunday night. The numbers drawn were 5, 7, 21, 28. Lucky dip winners of ?30 each were John Ryan, Sionan Prendergast, Mike McMahon, Tom O’Connell. Bar prize winners were bottle of whiskey, sponsored by Savages Bar, Oonagh Kiely, ?15 each, Owen Kelly, Ann Stack, Ann Enright. Promoters prize ?15 Barons Supermarket. The next jackpot will be ?7,300 and the draw will be held at the Wicked Wolf Bar on this Sunday night. All are welcome. GAA SOCIAL: The Tarbert annual GAA dinner dance will be held at the Lanterns Hotel on Friday, February 7. At the social, members of the Tarbert minor team, who won the N Kerry c’ship in 1952 will be honoured and presented with special trophies. Music on the night will be supplied by Different Sounds. Dinner served at 9pm sharp. Tickets can be obtained from committee members at ?20 each. The GAA social is always an enjoyable and special occasion for the people of the parish, and their friends and this years social promises to be another night to remember. SHANNON PARK: At Shannon Park on Sunday, before a big attendance, Ballyduff defeated Finuge by a score of 1-9 to 0-6 in the A final of the N Kerry u21 c’ship. The c’ship is sponsored by Newtownsandes Dairy. WHIST DRIVE: The Tarbert Bridewell whist drive, resumed recently and will continue each Thursday night, at 8.30pm. TRAINING: All young footballers between the ages of 16 to 18 years are asked to be in Shannon Park on this Saturday for minor team training at 2pm. Team trainer is Shane Sheehan, training for the senior team will take place this week on Wednesday and Friday nights at 8pm in Shannon Park. SPORTS AWARD: At the annual social of the Kerry GAA Supporters Cub, held at Ballygarry House Hotel, on Saturday night, Kilmoyley and Kerry hurler, Shane Brick, was named the supporters club overall GAA sports personality of the year. Shane, who is a nephew of our Parish Priest, Very Rev Mossy Brick, was the monthly sports award winner in September. ARDFERT RETREAT CENTRE: Parishioners are invited to a day of reflection and prayer at the Ardfert Retreat Centre on Sunday, February 9. Contact Mary Coolahan at 068-36315. SYMPATHY: Of the community is extended to Mrs Julie McElligott, St Patricks Tce, Tarbert, on the recent death of her sister, Mrs Maura Scott, who died in England. Sympathy is also extended to Mrs Margaret Kenny, Doonard Crescent, Tarbert on the death of her brother Mr Seamus Kane of Ballyshannon, Co Donegal. The death has taken place of Mrs Mary Hurley, Marian Park, Tralee. Sympathy of the community is extended to her son, Martin, Tralee, who is well known in the parish and to her daughter in law Patricia (nee Lyndon) and to her other family members and relatives. PLAY: The smash hit play “Bawdy and Soul” will be staged at St Michael’s College, Listowel, on Thursday, February 6 at 8pm. Admission ?10. Bookings 06821049. Proceeds to Kerry Hospice. Tralee Harriers (Incorporating both Clounalour and St. Johns Athletic Clubs) IT was a weekend of mixed fortunes for one of our star athletes this weekend. On Friday night at the Gleneagle Hotel in Killarney, Laura Crowe received a Kerry sports star award for her achievements in 2002. She was also honoured as best overall juvenile female athlete beating off competition from athletes from all sports who had very successful years in their own chosen events. This was a marvellous achievement for Laura and a proud night for herself, her parents and the club. It is a tremendous achievement for such a young athlete to take this overall female athlete award but as we in the club know Laura is a well deserved winner of the award. Tony Barnett was also honoured on the night and received an award for his achievements in 2002. Tony had a great year in 2002 and it would be a brave person who would bet against him being listed in the awards list again next year. Well done to both Laura and Tony - you richly deserve these awards and I am sure they are only one of many to come. On behalf of the club we congratulate both of you and hope you both enjoyed and savoured the night. Laura then travelled to Birmingham on Saturday to compete in the AAA indoor championships. She was competing in the heats of the girls under 17 800m and had the misfortune to fall in the early stages of the race. The athlete in front of Laura caught her with her heels and Laura stumbled and fell. This was a huge disappointment for such a talented athlete and further more when the winning time for the race was published — a time that Laura is well capable of beating. However, I am sure that Laura's determination and ability will shine through and when she competes next weekend at the National Junior Indoor Championships she will put last weekend behind her and perform to the very best of her ability. MUNSTER INDOOR: The Munster Championships for ages under 12 to under 15 take place on February 15 and 16 in Nenagh. The events take place over two days and for more details on the events being held on Saturday and Sunday please contact either myself, Martin Fitzgerald or Shane Delany. The competitions on both days are due to start at 11am. The following is a list of the athletes entered and all these athletes must attend training sessions over the next few weeks in order to prepare. Also athletes must confirm with one of the coaches if they are either attending or not attending these events. Please let one of the coaches know over the next week or so. Triona Casey, Anna Enright, Orla Collins, Lydie Barnett, Ashley Guinan, Sarah Murray, Karen O'Connor, Tommy Browne, Eoin Doody, Sean Hussey, Ben McGilton, Christopher White, David Boyd, James Casey, Christopher Moriarty, Peter Wheeler, Stephen Tierney, Niall Browne, Bryan Cooper, Bill Mullins, Adam Crowley, Robert O'Shea, Declan Doody, Andrew Kearney, Rosemarie Young, Niamh Guerin, Ashling Spillane, Clare Fitzgerald, Sinead O'Connor (Relay), Hilary White (Relay). TRAINING: Training for those attending the Munster Indoor Championships takes place this weekend in Castleisland on Saturday morning from 11am-1pm. It is imperative that all athletes intending to participate in these championships show up for the training sessions. The training will take place weather permitting so if you are in doubt please contact one of the coaches. Transport leaves Gleasures at 10.15am. This session is a Munster Schools organised event and coaches from other counties will be in attendance. Training for the younger age groups, ie, under 8 to under 11 takes place on Sunday from 4-5pm in Mounthawk. Training for the older athletes, ie, under 14 upwards takes place as normal this week. OPEN DAY: We held a very successful open day on Sunday. We had a large number of athletes attending the training sessions and registration. To those of you that registered on Sunday and did not have a copy of your birth certificates please make sure you bring them to the next training session. To anyone who was not able to attend the open day registrations can still take place at the training sessions in Mounthawk. Finally to the athletes who were registered last year and have not re-registered please contact Eileen McCarthy. Thanks to all who helped out on the day. BEST WISHES . . . to all our athletes participating in the National Indoor Championships and also in the National Master Indoor Championships both of which will be held in Nenagh next weekend. Transport on Sunday leaves Gleasures at 9pm. MEETING: Our next club meeting will take place on Monday, February 10 at 8.30pm in Cumann Iosaef. DATES FOR DIARY: February 15 /16 — Munster Indoor Championships - ages u-12 - 15 in Nenagh. February 22 — AAI Junior, Senior and Masters combined events in Nenagh. March 8 / 9 — Munster Indoor Championships. March 17 — Club Indoor sports ages u-8 - u-13. Loughill / Ballyhahill LOUGHILL / Ballyhahill branch of the ICA will hold their monthly meeting on Tuesday night, February 11 at 8pm. GROUP MEETING: There will be a group meeting of ICA members from Ballyhahill / Loughill, Athea, Glin, Abbeyfeale, Shanagolden and Ardagh will be held in the Parish Hall, Ballyhahill on Tuesday night, February 4 at 8pm. YOUTH CLUB: Loughill / Ballyhahill Youth Club will travel to Ballylongford this Friday night, January 31 for the youth club disco. The bus will leave the car park in Ballyhahill at 8.15pm and it will leave Paidin Beags Corner in Loughill at 8.30pm. Bus and disco ?6. COMMUNITY GAMES: The annual general meeting of Loughill / Ballyhahill Community Games was held recently and the following officers were elected. Chairperson, Terence McSweeney; Secretary, Phil Moloney; Assist Secretary, Mary O’Brien; Treasurer, Aileen Ryan; PRO, Barbara Curtin. The upcoming events are badminton, chess, draughts and indoor soccer. Anyone interested please give your name into either Loughill or Ballyhahill School as soon as possible. Training for running every Thursday night at Tarbert Comprehensive School. Contact Irene McSweeney at (086) 3800213 for further details. FISHING: The Abha Bhán Fishing Club will hold their annual general meeting on Wednesday, February 12 at 8.30pm in the Hall in Ballyhahill. All are welcome. The winners of the Limerick Team Souvenirs are as follows, Christmas draw — Paidín Beags, Cieran Corbett; O’Farrell’s Bar, Tracey Sheahan; Top of the Town, Theresa Cregan-Stack; Barrett’s Bar, Sean Sheahan. The winner of the Manchester United Souvenir was Mary Brouder. The club would like to thank everyone for their support. The club would also like to thank the Mohernagh Wrenboys for their kind donation, which was presented to the club by Mr Michael Walsh. SOCIAL SERVICES: St Senans Social Services will be going on their annual outing in February. Their destination this year is Westport Woods Hotel in Mayo. The bus departs Sunday, February 16 and returns on Friday, February 21. We hope they have a very happy holiday. Best of luck for the journey. BALLY ROVERS LOTTO: Bally Rovers FC Junior and Schoolboys club development lottery jackpot of ?12,850 was not won. Numbers drawn were 2, 5, 18, 24. Lucky Dip: ?75, Alice Cregan, Pallaskenry; ?30, Marie Hallett, Mount Trenchard; ?30, Tom Flynn, Foynes; ?15, Eilish Taylor, Shanagolden; ?15, Joseph O’Connor, Ardfert. Ten free tickets, Peg Looney, Ballyhahill. Promoters prize: Patrick Healy. The new draw for a Jackpot of ?13,000 will take place on January 28 in Barr na Sraide at 11pm. GERALD GRIFFINS GAA: There was no winner of the lotto Jackpot. Numbers drawn were 2, 8, 22, 27. Lucky Dip: ?70, Jim Shiels, Clounleharde; ?30, Sean Naughton, Lisreidy; ?30, Sean Curran, c/o Paidín Beags; ?15, M Healy, Kilteery, Loughill. Promoters Prize: Paidín Beags. The next draw will take place on Sunday, February 2 in O’Farrell’s for a jackpot of ?7,720. GET WELL WISHES: Gerald Griffins GAA club would like to send get well wishes to Liam Reidy, Ballyhahill. MEMBERSHIP: Gerald Griffins GAA club would like to remind people that membership of the club is now due. Membership for adults is ?10 and for underage players ?2. Lixnaw THE national annual general meeting of community games will be held this weekend in Letterkenny Co Donegal. The Kerry chairman, Eamon Whelan will attend as one of the three Kerry delegates. Local competitions will be starting over the coming weeks. The Adult Quiz will take place on February 21 in Listowel. Anyone wishing to take part should contact (068) 40316. Training for indoor soccer U-13 boys and girls will start shortly. Details will be sent to local schools. The county community games set dancing will take place in the Ceolann on Sunday, March 9. It is hoped that the parish will have a set on the day. COURSING: Numbers drawn, 9, 13, 210, 24. No winner. ?25 to G Boyd, Lixnaw, Jeremiah Roche, Ballinclogher, Lixnaw, Dylan Houlihan, 19 Lartigue Village, Listowel. Five free tickets, Gerald O’Sullivan, Jnr, Ahabeg East, Lixnaw, Kevin Quilter, Gortinare, Lixnaw. Next draw Sunday, February 2 at Dew Drop Inn, jackpot ?2,600. LIXNAW JUDO: Congrats to our team members, who competed in judo finals in Cork last weekend. Tracy O’Sullivan 40 kgs gold, Kenny Waltz 30 kgs silver. Well done to both of you. CLANMAURICE UTD: On Saturday the u-12 travelled to Kenmare the game finished with a 2-2 scoreline on target for Clanmaurice were Greg O’Connor and Shane Nolan. The u-14 team had a big home win over Mastergeeha by scoring eight goals and conceding just the one, scorers on the day were James O’Flaherty (2), David Linehan (2), Aiden Lucid (2) James O’Donnell and Robert Wallace, that win keeps them in the hunt for top spot on the table. TRAINING: The u-14 team are to be at Wooly Back Park this Saturday for 3pm. U-13 fixture was not available at time of print. AT a gala banquet in the Gleneagle Hotel, Killarney, on Saturday night, the Kerry Sportstars of 2002 were honoured. Sponsored by 
The Kerryman, The Gleneagle Hotel and Kerry Group, one of the Final Nominees for the Young Male Sportstar of the Year (age 14-20) was Raymond Galvin, Ballinclogher. Ray was presented with his award by Michael O’Muircheartaigh along with many other Kerry sportstars ranging from football, rugby, horseracing, athletics, soccer, golf and basketball. Ray aged 16 years, as you know is an accomplished hurler and footballer, chosen for his outstanding feats with Lixnaw Hurling Club, Finuge Football Club, Causeway Comprehensive School, along with the various different Kerry teams which Ray was part of. He also plays Soccer with Kilflynn Santos Youths team. Raymond was nominated for this award on the strength of his huge involvement in sport, his contribution, dedication and personal development of skills, etc, which makes him a class apart. All while still pursuing his educational studies at Causeway Comprehensive School. Raymond has played with an incredible twenty teams during 2002, eleven hurling and nine football, including the All-Ireland Senior Vocational Schools football final in Clones. A brief summary of his activities includes: Hurling — Lixnaw u-16, minor, u-21, junior, senior; Kerry u-16, u-17 and minor; Causeway u-16 and senior; Kerry Vocational School Senior. Football — Finuge u-16, minor, u-21; North Kerry u-16, Feale Rangers u-16 and Minor, Causeway u-16, Causeway senior and Kerry Vocational School senior. Raymond actually played in 12 finals during 2002 at school, county and All-Ireland level, seven in Football and five in Hurling winning the following: Hurling: Co Kerry u-21 Championship, Co Kerry Minor League Division 1, North Kerry u-16 League Division 1. Football: Munster u-16 Divisional C’Ship (North Kerry), Munster Senior Voc. Schools football, Kerry Senior Voc Schools, North Kerry u-16 League, North Kerry U16 Championship. Raymond was also part of the Causeway Comp School team which qualified for both the All-Ireland Senior Vocational school football and hurling finals in 2001, the first school to achieve this particular feat. Congratulations to Ray on his success and we wish him continued success in the future. Well done also to the many coaching / training personnel who has worked with Ray down through the years. Next Sunday in Fitzgerald Stadium Killarney, Ray will be helping Causeway school in their bid to win their third in a row Munster Senior Football titles. Something which has not been achieved by any team so far before. Best of Luck to all concerned. 
