sport football
{  
    March 05 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/celtic-tiger-devours-schools-sport-26253639.html }
By COLM O'ROURKE     Not enough young teachers are prepared to devote time to coaching football teams    BEING involved at colleges level in... Not enough young teachers are prepared to devote time to coaching football teams BEING involved at colleges level in football means playing and training at the very worst period of the year weather-wise. It is not much fun being wet and cold when in charge of a team, while it is obviously much less enjoyable for the young players who have to be very committed. Occasionally, a game comes along which makes all the drudgery disappear and brightens the bleak days of winter. One such afternoon arrived in Carlow eight days ago when St Pat's of Navan beat All-Ireland champions Good Counsel of New Ross in a breathtaking Leinster Colleges Senior A semi-final by one point after extra-time. The joy of victory for us was mirrored in the absolute devastation of defeat for Good Counsel ... that is the difference a point makes. It was an extraordinary game of passion, speed and skill fought out at a frantic pace over almost one hundred minutes, yet without rancour. This demonstration of discipline gives everyone involved with both sides a bit of heart for the future of the GAA. Cynicism has thankfully not invaded the leading Gaelic schools, and even when the cost of defeat is bad, great games are a source of memories for many weeks in the classroom. That is not of great consolation to Good Counsel who have demonstrated what hard work can achieve in any school. With an All-Ireland title in the bag, they have set the standard which we seek to emulate at some stage. They should be as proud now of their teams as they were after winning the Hogan Cup last year, and if we had gone down in this match (as could easily have happened) it would not have changed my attitude to the St Pat's players. Football at this level is about swings and roundabouts. Matches at the concluding stages of the championship are generally decided by less than a few points and there will be days when things fall in your favour and days when you go home wondering why a game which should be there to entertain and captivate can turn out to be so bloody cruel. You need to be able to look on the bright side of life, just as we in St Pat's did after losing a Leinster final by a point, after extra-time, and an All-Ireland semi-final by the same score, all in the last three years. However, if readers get the impression that colleges' football is an oasis of talented players and committed schools, then they would be getting the wrong impression. Of course there are a number of places where football is thriving due to the commitment of teachers and the enthusiasm of players; it is also helped greatly in many places by the tradition of the schools. The downside is a lack of appreciation of sport in general and Gaelic games in particular in numerous other places and these are very much the majority. The reality of the senior colleges A section in Leinster is that only about half a dozen teams are competitive on an on-going basis. Many of the great old names of Leinster football like Gormanston and St Finian's have gone steadily downhill as they have been overtaken in numbers by the large day schools and there is not the same number of priests and Christian brothers who drove the football engine in so many other schools throughout the country. The one traditional college which has defied the trend is St Mel's of Longford who still maintain the high standards set by previous generations. Dublin is a disaster despite intense coaching efforts by some hard pressed teachers, the Leinster Council and Dublin County Board. Very few Dublin college teams are competitive at any level and soccer would appear to be the preferred sport in most schools. This is a massive problem because half the young population of Leinster are in Dublin schools. The only salvation is that a lot of Dublin clubs are attempting to take up the slack, but a big effort is needed on both fronts to sort out the problems. One advantage Leinster colleges' football has is the fact that the Leinster Council appointed a full-time servicing officer, Michael Reynolds, some years ago to look after the schools section. This was an excellent appointment and has greatly assisted the organisation of the whole colleges scene. However, Michael Reynolds can only do so much. The buck still stops with the schools themselves and their willingness to put in the work on the ground. In my more pessimistic moods, I see the problems of football in schools getting worse. This view relates to the whole philosophy of schools regarding sport and the very future of teaching. Too many teachers look on education solely as book learning, everything else being disruptive. There are others, thankfully, who see that a balance must be maintained between the academic side and the development of the person. Football, indeed all sport, is a process of learning by experience, both good and bad. At best, it should teach commitment, discipline, loyalty, courage, tolerance, courtesy, leadership and the ability to accept both victory and defeat without going overboard on either. This assumes that these are the qualities which the teacher attempts to pass on. I can't help but laugh at the number of games I see at under-age level both schools and club where those in charge of a team preach discipline to their players while behaving like demented lunatics at the same time. Is it any wonder young people get confused as to what is acceptable behaviour? Those who spend all the extra time with students are the real educators as distinct from teachers. The future of football in schools and the whole education process itself depends on an ability to attract young men in particular (and this is not being chauvinistic) into the profession who will be willing to spend extra time preparing teams. The Celtic Tiger provides more attractive alternatives elsewhere. Young teachers are not paid enough to compete with newer industries who not only pay more, but offer much better opportunities for career advancement. So while no other group in society has such power to influence the future of young people, there is a great and immediate danger that those who could contribute enormously in the wider sense of education will go elsewhere for employment because their drive and enthusiasm will be rewarded. If the economy keeps roaring, the current shortage of nurses will be nothing compared to the problems of a shortage in good young teachers. Schools will then become grey places of work between 9 and 4 sharp, and if this is a problem for the GAA, then it is an even bigger one for the country as it will tear away at the very fabric that the education system is built on. So the worries that parents have about their sons spending a lot of time at football may be minor compared to those that lie ahead. Parents are obviously concerned about time given to sport which possibly could be spent at studies for the Leaving Cert. Again a balance must be maintained, but research suggests these students do not lose out academically through their involvement and of course gain substantially in other ways which are not measured by exams. Of much greater concern are students who work part-time. Generally, this is not driven by economic necessity, rather the need to have money for weekend pleasure. Quite a bit of this goes on drink and this newer form of consumerism is much more dangerous to education than the richness which is gained from involvement in sport. Those young men would be far better off playing football. The lust for money, which is the questionable driving force of the current boom, can wait. 
