sport football
{ Eamonn Sweeney 
    September 02 2018 12:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/eamonn-sweeney-dublin-are-in-heaven-but-football-is-in-hell-37273828.html }
It seems fitting that the All-Ireland football final is taking place at the end of a week when children return to school. Because there's a back to school feeling about today's game. After the summer holiday of the hurling championship it's nose to the football grindstone time again. Once upon a time waiting for the football final was like counting the days before the circus came to town. Not this year. The question people keep asking is, 'Have Tyrone any chance?' There's a plaintive note about the query, the kind you hear when someone despairingly asks, "Will he ever get sense?" after the latest misadventures of a family black sheep. This has been the GAA's Year of Extremes. We've seen both the best ever hurling championship and the worst ever football championship. I love to say I told you so, which is why I'll point out that plenty of people pointed out football was set for an annus horribilis before a ball had even been kicked. You could see this year's catastrophe coming a mile off.  More optimistic souls suggested the Super 8 might be the catalyst which sparked the championship into life. More deluded ones pretended that football was undergoing an evolutionary change which those equipped with the proper critical tools would find utterly absorbing. But even they've conceded that championship 2018 has stunk to high heaven.  Its lousiness has become proverbial. People roll their eyes, shake their heads and say, "the football has gone to hell." This is an accepted fact, like the brilliance of the hurling championship and the scorching nature of the weather at the height of this summer. Saying the football championship wasn't bad would be like saying 35 degrees wasn't hot. People are not fools. They're looking at football long enough to believe the evidence of their own eyes. The last resort of football's dwindling band of defenders is to exclaim, "It's not fair to compare football to hurling." This is a fairly prissy objection considering that most people do compare the two sports because they watch both of them. But let's get this straight. If all the country's hurlers had been stricken with that sleeping sickness which afflicted every man in Ulster except Cuchullain, this football championship would still have looked terrible. It's not just bad compared to hurling. It's bad compared to football. There's general acceptance that this year has marked a nadir for the country's most popular game. That's why there's already talk of significant rule changes being mooted at conventions and congresses. It's also why the prevailing mood today is one of foreboding rather than gleeful anticipation. Yet it's possible that the negative approach adopted by most teams isn't even the major contributor to the current gloom. Try this thought experiment. Which do you think would be better for football today: Dublin winning a great final or Tyrone winning a terrible one? Be honest now. See? I'm a great admirer of this Dublin team, but sustained dominance of the kind they currently enjoy is bad for the game. There's a revisionist notion that when Kerry won seven of the nine All-Irelands between 1978 and 1986 everyone admired the brilliance of their football and luxuriated in those Sunday Game montages cut to the fab sounds of Showaddywaddy and Carly Simon.  In truth we quickly tired of Kingdom tyranny. Attendances dropped, morale slumped and Seamus Darby's goal was celebrated like the toppling of a dictator's statue. Maybe that thought experiment is slightly misleading. Because if Tyrone win today the game will be regarded as great no matter what the standard of football is like. It would be the greatest upset in final history after all. So do Tyrone have any chance? The case that they might have lays heavy emphasis on Mickey Harte's tactical nous and 3-0 record in finals. Yet there's no comparison between today's Tyrone and the ones which won in 2003 and 2005.  What about 2008? Tyrone were outsiders that day against a Kerry side going for three in a row. The incomparable attack of 2005 was no more - Peter Canavan had retired, Stephen O'Neill, Owen Mulligan and Brian McGuigan only came in as subs - and a midfield partnership of Colin Holmes and Enda McGinley was hardly in the classic mould. Kerry had a Colm Cooper, Kieran Donaghy, Tommy Walsh full-forward line and the three Ó Sés in peak form and Tyrone beat them by four points. The comparison still doesn't apply. Kerry had creaked all year, losing to Cork in the Munster final and needing two goes to scrape past them in the All-Ireland semi, whereas Dublin have been flawless this season. Tyrone still had the likes of Conor Gormley, Ryan McMenamin, Philip Jordan and Brian Dooher. They also had Sean Cavanagh, whose performance in scoring five points from play off the great Tom O'Sullivan is probably the finest individual final display of the modern era. They don't have anyone like him now They do have his brother Colm, who has been magnificent all year and is capable of emulating Tom Parsons by getting the better of Brian Fenton at midfield. Tyrone shouldn't be short of possession, and the presence of Mattie Donnelly in the same area will mean it's used intelligently. The performances of Tiernan McCann and Padraig Hampsey this year have made it possible to at least compare them to the likes of Jordan and Gormley, though today will fully test the appropriateness of such comparisons. Frank Burns has looked superb at times, though prone to tiring. Michael McKernan, still just 20 but cast in the traditional Tyrone mould, has been the defensive find of the championship. A scenario where Tyrone will put up doughty resistance at the back can be envisaged. It's much more difficult to see them getting any change at the other end. Who's going to terrorise the Dublin defence? Who's going to get scores?  Peter Harte is a fine player, as shown by the incisive run which set up the winning goal in the semi-final, but he's not a big scorer. Niall Sludden, Tyrone's best attacker, was completely ineffective against the Dubs in Omagh. Conor McAliskey, their most accurate finisher, has three points from play in his last three games.  The likes of Burns and McCann have chipped in from the back in the past but are likely to be otherwise occupied today. And the weakness of the Tyrone attack is a double-edged sword. A failure to trouble Dublin's defence will lead to Jack McCaffrey, James McCarthy and Philly McMahon venturing forward to deadly effect. Dublin's two main areas of vulnerability were exploited by Mayo last year. The first is the full-back line's unease in dealing with quick direct ball, which saw Andy Moran thrive in last year's final and Damien Comer do well in this year's semi-final, but Tyrone don't have an inside forward of that calibre. The second is a dependence on Ciaran Kilkenny, the closest Jim Gavin has to an indispensable player. Mayo subdued Kilkenny by putting Lee Keegan on him. But anyone who thinks Hampsey can do the same thing is barking up the wrong tree. Keegan is one of the best defenders ever to play the game and would have done an excellent marking job on most of the best attackers. Hampsey, though good, isn't in the same class. Kilkenny, meanwhile, is getting better all the time. He enters the final as the championship's top scorer from play, having recaptured the point-scoring ability which marked his early days in the Dublin jersey. The Castleknock kid has disappointed in his last two deciders but is unlikely to do so today. The one mildly worrying feature of the Super 8 for Gavin would have been the iffy form of his two most dangerous forwards, Con O'Callaghan and Paul Mannion. Yet both were superb in the semi-final and both are big-game players, which is another reason why it's impossible to see past Dublin today. That they will be able to spring the magnificent Cormac Costello and the rejuvenated duo of Paul Flynn and Kevin McManamon from the bench means Gavin probably has more attacking options than any manager ever had going into an All-Ireland final. Countering the Dublin attack is like playing a game of whack-a-mole designed by a sadist. Expectations are low for Tyrone. So low that if they lose by five or six points today some people will thunder, "Now, do you see that? They proved everyone wrong." But in reality the only way this dog of a championship can be redeemed is by a game that matches last year's classic final or by a Tyrone victory. I don't think we'll get either.  I've never wanted to be wrong so much. Humble pie would taste like caviar after football's season in hell. Sunday Indo Sport 
