sport football
{  
    April 25 2012 09:39 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/sport/grassroots-27651219.html }
BALINACOR CAMOGIE: Well done to the under-14 and under-16 teams who both had great wins in the league last week. Hard luck to our Senior team who lost to Knockananna at the weekend. The under-14's play Glenealy next Monday 30th April in Glenealy at 6.30pm. Our under-16's are out against Donard on Wednesday April 2 at 6.30pm in Glenmalure. The Seniors play Annacurra on Sunday 29th at noon in Annacurra. Best of luck to all the teams. A very big thank you to all who supported the Table Quiz, it was a great success and a great night was had by all. We are also collecting Tesco tokens and players can hand these in at training sessions. HOLLYWOOD Minor league- St. Kevins Minors who beat Avondale in the league final. This thrilling game went down to the final kick of the night and Kevins ended up victorious. Congratulations to the team and mentors who have made a great start to 2012 with 7 wins in a row. The Seniors played St. Pats away on Sunday 15th and came home from Dunbur Park with a great win on a score line of 1-07 to 0-07. The lads then played Newtown on Saturday 21st and were beaten by 1-12 to 1-08. The Juniors started Division 4 with a comprehensive win at home to Donard on a scoreline of 5-14 to 1-04. It's Lacken away this Thursday. Well done also to Harry Murphy and his Wicklow side on their great win over Clare and promotion to Division 3. Best of luck to Wicklow in the league final this Saturday. Well done too to the County Minors on their recent win over Laois. County development draw tickets are now available from any player or committee member. ASHFORD There was no winner of this week's Ashford and Glenealy GAA club's lotto jackpot worth €10,400. Numbers drawn were 9, 17, 22, 27. However six people matched three numbers and shared €300. Sally W (W. Kavanagh), Pat Dowling (Centra), Veronica Doyle (V. Doyle), Pat and Seamus (P. Doyle), Michael Ryan (S. Mcdermott), E. Deegan (V. Doyle). Next draw will be held in King's with a Jackpot of €10,700. Don't forget play lotto on line in the comfort of your home www.ashfordgaa.com Ashford under-12 Squad - The following players took part in a demonstration game with DonardThe Glen in Aughrim last Sunday during the half time break in the NFL game between Wicklow and Clare. The team was managed by Liam Byrne and Gavin Connolly. Ashford were defeated by Enniskerry 4-4 to 1-5 in the county under-12 football league. Schedule of Events: Saturday April 21: Ashford GAA Coaching Camp, under-6, 8, 10 at 11am; County Football League Division 2, Ashford v Coolkenno in Ashford at 4pm; Monday April 23: Ashford and Glenealy GAA club's lotto, King's, Jackpot €10,700; Under-12 Football League - Ashford v Kilmac in Ashford at 6.45pm; Under-16 Football League - Ashford v Enniskerry/kilmac in Ashford at 7.45pm; Tuesday April 24: Minor, Junior and Intermediate football training at 7.30pm; Thursday April 26: North East Junior Football League, Kilcoole v Ashford in Kilcoole at 7.15pm; Friday April 27: Minor, Junior and Intermediate football training at 7.30pm; Saturday April 28: Ashford GAA Coaching Camp, under-6, 8, 10 in Ashford at 1pm; Thursday May 3: Ashford GAA Executive Meeting, Chester's 9pm. Please support the Garden County Grand Development Draw and Ashford GAA Club by purchasing a ticket; you will bring much needed revenue to Ashford GAA Club. Tickets are now available from Ann Marie Manning and her Fund Raising Team, or visit our stand outside Centra on a Saturday. AUGHRIM Last Thursday saw our Juniors play their first match in the current league. Fielding a strong team they had a good win over Arklow Rock Parnells who were fielding in this competition after a lapse of a number of years. It was a good all round team performance featuring a number of the regular stalwarts and some younger players notably Conor Lambert who made a winning debut at this grade. Aughrim ran out convincing winners on a scoreline of 5-11 to 1-1. Congratulations to Patrick Phelan who played a huge part in the Wicklow Minors championship victory over Laois recently. Scoring 1-1 himself, Patrick was influential in setting up a number of other scores and played a major part in securing this victory. A big thank you to all who supported and contributed to the recent Race Night. A special word of appreciation to our sponsors of the various races - Kinsella PVC, John Murphy, Arklow Cash and Carry, Eugene O'brien, Declan O'brien Plastering, Patrick Kavanagh, Derek Kavanagh Carpentry, O'loughlin's Tinnakilly, Woodside Nurseries, P.K. Mccann, Kerry Foods, O'neill & Flanagan, G.M. Sports, Dr. Sinead Sheehan, Macreddin Rock B & B, Ann Tallon Launderette, Deirdre Fox Solicitor, Paul Phelan, Pat Lacey, Bill Quigley Landscapes. The Club would like to wish Brian Culleton of Avoca who is presently in hospital a speedy recovery. ST NICHOLAS The under-16 girls have had a busy schedule over the last few weeks, playing four league games. The first of these was against Blessington with St Nicholas coming out on top on a score line of 3-07 to 1-06. This was a great team performance with Mary Healy, Ciara Brooks, Emma Callaghan and Imogen English leading the defence and Aoife Grace, Laura Miley and Lisa Lawlor taking some good scores. Their next game was against Rathnew with St. Nicholas coming out well on top. Next up was an away game against Clara with St. Nicholas again running out comprehensive winners on a score line of St. Nicholas 7-08, Clara 1-04. The girls' latest league game was against Cumann na Mara with another excellent performance resulting in a comprehensive win. The teams unbeaten run leaves them top of the league. Well done to all the team and the mentors Mary Whelan, Mervyn O'neill and Josephine Sinnott. Best of luck to Aoife Grace, Lisa Lawlor and Chloe Dwyer who have been selected for the county under-14 team. The U14 girls played their first competitive games of the year in the Feile which took place on Saturday last. The team competed very well in their games against Blessington, St. Pats and Carnew. A big thank you to the Blessington club for their hospitality on the day. DONARD-THE GLEN CAMOGIE This was a busy week with the seniors, under16's and under-12's all in action. The seniors played Glenealy at home on Sunday and this was a tight encounter. Glenealy were winners on a score line of 1-04 to 0-03. The under-16's played another tight match against Avondale on Wednesday evening. This match ended in a draw. On Saturday, the under-12's played host to Kiltegan in a Go-games blitz. There was plenty of skill on display here with both teams competing strongly. Again, well done to all the players involved. STRATFORD-GRANGECON Lotto - last week's numbers 15, 21, 22, 23. This week's jackpot is €12,800. Two match 3 winners (share €150) - Jennifer Bollard - Seller: Jennifer Bollard, Michael O'shea - Seller: Katie Bollard. Sellers Prize - Katie Bollard Remember a great selection of gear is available to buy. Please contact Annette 086 8462771 for further information. We are collecting any unwanted clothes, shoes, sheets, soft toys if you have anything please contact Annette or Colette. The under-12's played Kilbride/lacken last Monday and came away with a good win. They play Annacurra in the next round. The under-14's play Blessington in a re-fixed match on Wednesday evening at 6.45pm. Hard luck to the Junior team on Thursday night beat by a stronger Dunlavin team. Well done to the Wicklow hurlers on their on their great win over Down. AVONDALE This week saw the Junior footballers begin their season with a home game against Balinacor, with only four points between the sides at half-time. Avondale pushed on in the second half to come out convincing winners on a score-line of 1-23 to 2-7, with Ian Heffernan chipping in with 11 of those points. The under-12's were out against Laragh last Monday, it was a great team performance by both teams with Laragh just edging it in the last few minutes on a score of 4-9 to 5-9, Ross Ward stood out for Avondale on the night with some great free kicks off the ground. Our under--14's were defeated by St. Kevin's last Wednesday and last Sunday they had a tough game with Enniskerry, coming out 1 point winners, this win was from an all round great performance with the midfielders dominating play. The under-8 lads had a visit from Garrett Doyle lately and the 14's had a visit from Leighton, thanks to the lads for coming down, the players really enjoyed the sessions. This week will see the Junior hurlers begin their year against Kilmacanogue on Wednesday night with the footballers away to A.G.B on Thursday night, check fixtures for all Juvenile and Senior games. Our website was re-launched last week with some new features, check it out at www.avondalegaa.com. We are into our final weeks for the Garden County Development Draw and we are appealing to anyone who is looking for tickets to contact any committee member and support this club fundraiser. Well done to all juvenile coaches who completed the recent first aid and defibrillator course last weekend. Avondale Community College had a great week last week, two county titles in two days went to the college, on Wednesday they defeated Colaiste Chill Mhantain in the Minor hurling B final while on Thursday they got the better of Colaiste Chraobh Abhann Kilcoole in the Senior camogie B final. LARAGH Our Senior lads got their first points on the table with a great win over An Tochar. Leading by eight points to three at the break the lads didn't take their foot off the pedal and held on to come out with a well deserved win - Final score - 0-10 to 005. Another great win for the club on Monday evening when our under-12's came out on top against Avondale. Hopefully these kids can keep this unbeaten run going when they take on Rathnew on Monday night. The under-14's played their first league against Kilcoole on Wednesday evening. A good performance was put in by the lads but Kilcoole proved too strong in the end. The club would like to wish Din Mccoy a speedy recovery. Final chance to purchase county development draw tickets so if you're interested please contact John Merrigan. COOLBOY This year's Golf Classic will take place on Saturday 28thapril in Killerig Golf Club. A great day's golf is guaranteed with excellent prizes; please contact Joe Dempsey (087-9643471) for booking a tee off time for your team. Entry fee for a team of four is €160 which includes a meal at the golf course. Afterwards everybody is welcome to the prize-giving and entertainment on the night in The Little Moon in Coolboy. Juvenile training has recommenced, please return complete registration forms asap if you haven't already done so. Training continues to be on Wednesday night from 7 to 8 in Coolboy Sports Field, new members always welcome. For up to day results on our Sports Predictor Competition 2012, please log on to www.coolboygaa.com. This website also has all current information on matches, training etc for the avid fan. TINAHELY LADIES Well done to the Senior ladies team who beat Kilbride in the cup at the weekend. This competition is played without county players and it's fantastic to still see the strength within the squad. Well done ladies keep up the training and hard work. Please remember all registrations are overdue for all players, juvenile and senior please contact Bridget Kenny immediately. BARNDARRIG Well done to the under-12 footballers and under-14 footballers who all played some mighty football last week. There was some powerful scoring from both teams. Best of luck to the under-12 footballers are playing away to Avondale on Monday night. The under-14 hurlers are playing at home on Wednesday for their first match of the season. Hurling Go Games this week will be in Arklow Rocks. Coaches of each group will be texting out further details to their panel of players. Best of luck to all players, and enjoy. The following are the training sessions for 2012 season - under-6's restarts today April 25. Trainers, long sleeve tops/t-shirts and tracksuit bottoms should be worn. Looking forward to seeing last year's and new eager faces back up on the pitch for more fun and games. Under-8's - 10's is on Wednesday evenings for hurling at 5.15pm -6pm, football 6pm - 7pm. Under-12's - 4's hurling is on Tuesday evenings 5pm - 6.30pm. Under-12's - 14's football is Friday evenings 6.30 - 7.45pm. Under-12's girls football training is Wednesday's at 6pm until 7.30pm. GO Games have started, text messages will be sent out to all parents including date venue and throw-in time, we would be grateful if parents could reply as soon as possible so teams can be put together. Best of luck to both Junior football teams (B team away to Ballinacor), the Junior hurlers (away to Glenealy) and the Ladies team (away to Enniskerry) who all have matches kicking off during the week. Sports quiz: out of the first six events decided, we have two players with four correct, and 40 with three correct. Only Micheal Murphy and George Gaffney predicted that Bubba Watson would win the US Masters. Jerry Doyle of Wicklow Town and the staff of Brittas Bay N.S. are leaders at the moment. The Club are delighted to be facilitating Cul Camps in Kilmacurra, Barndarrig this summer. Registration can be filled out online, or forms can be got in Pearse Park, Arklow or ask a juvenile committee member. The County Board are holding the annual Development Draw. Tickets are €50 and are available from the committee members or Brian Walsh. ARKLOW ROCK PARNELLS Our Junior hurlers return to action this Wednesday night at 7.15pm in Kiltegan. We are leaving the Corner House at 5.45pm. After losing the county final last year it is hoped that this team can go one step further this year. In a novel fundraiser the Rocks and Arklow Rugby club came head to head last Thursday night to launch the Battle of Arklow Fight Night. The big Fight Night will take place on the June 9 in the Arklow Bay Hotel with tickets now on sale for the event from both clubs. Senior and Junior training continues each Monday and Friday night at 7pm. Our Junior footballers lost out to Aughrim last Thursday in their first return to football in many years. The last few County Development Draw tickets can still be purchased from Mick Byrne. Sincere sympathy is offered to the Doherty family on their recent bereavement. KILTEGAN What a difference county players make to our Senior team. This was the case when our Senior team played Donard-the Glen in the Senior League in Kiltegan on Sunday morning when we recorded our first win in the league on a score line of 1-12 to 1-06. Our Junior football team got new look Football League Division 4, off to a winning start against Ballymanus in Kiltegan on Thursday evening on a score line of 3-15 to 0-05. We play Coolkenno in our next match on Thursday night 7pm in Coolkenno. Our Club wish to extend their deepest sympathy to the Germaine family from Baltinglass, on the sudden death of Joe Germaine, to his wife Phil, sons Joseph, Ciaran, Michael, his brother and sister, grandchildren, and to his extended family our sympathy. Joe was a great support to our club over the years. We also sympathise with the Kinsella family Carnew and Baltinglass on the death of Michael Kinsella, to his wife Eileen, sons and daughter, brothers and sisters and his extended family our sympathy. Also we extend our sympathy to the Lennon Byrne family Talbotstown, Graigue and Baltinglass and Kiltegan on the death of Kathleen Wedgebury Madden, she was interred in Tinnaclash cemetery on Friday. To all her family and friends our sympathy. Club tickets are now on sale for the County Development Draw and there is only a few weeks left to purchase tickets, first draw 5th May. Tickets are €50 each and are available from most club members. Lotto Draw Results: Winning Numbers: 13, 17, 19 and 22. No Jackpot winner. Next week's Jackpot €9,200. Match 3 Winners: Helen Farrell and Marian Daly. Next draw takes place in Katie Lowe's on Monday at 10pm. Well done to our county hurling team who beat Down in the relegation match on Sunday which means we held our Division 2 status for next year. Best of luck to our county Senior football team who play Fermanagh in the Division 4 final in Croke Park on Saturday evening at 5pm. Our camogie team had a great win over Carnew in the Intermediate League in Kiltegan on Sunday. The final score was 2-07 to 0-01. GLENEALY JUVENILE The Cúl Camp takes place in Glenealy this year from 9th to 13th July. Any questions, please contact Sheila on 086 8683395. Our under-16 team played at home against Greystones/kilcoole last Monday night in the league. Although Glenealy battled hard to overcome a deficit at halftime against a strong wind, they could not override the first half lead. The next league match is against Bray Emmets on the 14th May. Training is in full swing now for all underage teams. If you would like to join Glenealy Juvenile hurling or have any questions about training times etc, please contact Sheila Driver on 086 8683395. We have updated the Juvenile Fixture section of the website (www.glenealy.gaa.ie). The format is an easy to follow month-by -month calendar. If you click on the fixture, you will be able to see all the information relating to the match. We are still looking for your old clothes/shoes/handbags just bring them along any night that you are coming down to training. The can be left in the first dressing room or contact Mrs Glenealy herself, Sheila Driver. BALTINGLASS Lotto Jackpot stands at €7,800. Numbers last week were 19-20-21-23. No winners. Seniors had a great win over Carnew on a score of 1-10 to 01. Scorers were P. Burke 1-2, J. Kelly 0-4, T. Cullen 0-1, T. Kealy 0-1, J. Mcgrath 0-1, C. Foley 0-1. Hard luck to the lads who were in the Tinryland Tournament and lost out to Portlaoise by a point. Junior A's were beaten by Eire Og which was a bit ridiculous out at same day as Senior game. Junior B's started there west league off well with a win over Valleymount. Girls under-14 Feile gave a good account of themselves winning their first two games against Cumann na Mara and Valleymount. We lost to Bray by a single point and lost to AGB. Well done to all involved. The girls start their league this week. Under-12's were beaten by AGB in their League. Draw tickets for the County Development Draw are on sale from any committee member or from Mace or Pattersons. The club would like to send sympathy to the Phil and the Germaine families on the death of Joe and to the O'neill family Newtown and the Kavanagh family from Hughestown on the death of Mary Kavanagh. R.I.P. 
