sport football
{  
    May 21 2012 08:14 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/lifestyle/i-wouldnt-give-in-to-asthma-it-was-sport-and-football-that-helped-me-manage-27420051.html }
HE'S a footballing hero of epic proportions in his home county of Kerry; a decorated All-ireland champion four times over and on a professional level Aidan O'mahony is a highly respected member of An Garda Síochána, now based in Cork. But behind the public persona, the All-star footballer has something in common with over half a million other Irish people - he is an asthmatic. While the condition certainly doesn't define the Rathmore man - quite simply because he wouldn't let it - it has nonetheless played a significant part in his life since he was diagnosed at the age of eight. Thankfully, he says, he has managed to control the condition to the best of his ability, but it was a tough and sometimes scary road growing up with asthma. "Before I was diagnosed I always had a bad chest and was in and out to the doctor several times. I wasn't diagnosed with asthma until I was eight and for the first couple of years it was quite tough," Aidan told The Kerryman. "I remember playing sports, especially between the age of about eight and 12, and would be extremely wheezy and unable to breath. I was often caught for breath and could have an asthma attack anywhere, at school or on the field," he said. "I would be gasping for breath and it could last anywhere from five to ten minutes and more often than not I needed to go to the doctor or even hospital and be put on a nebuliser." At 32 years of age, Aidan says he has now learned to manage the condition and has not suffered such an attack for the best part of 20 years. That's due in a huge way, he says, to his rigorous fitness scheme and training schedule at club and intercounty level. Well aware of how significant a part sport has played in managing the condition, there was a time when the popular footballer questioned whether asthma would ultimately hinder his sporting ambitions. "Early on in my career I remember looking at the training schedule going from club to inter-county level and realising it was a lot more intense but I was determined not to let it [asthma] bother me," he said. "I wouldn't give in to asthma and, ironically, it was sport and football that helped me manage the condition. It's hugely important and I've no doubt that it was definitely sport that gradually got me over the worst of it." While the days of gasping for breath and severe attacks are behind him, Aidan is still prone to the odd bout of breathlessness, and yes, it can happen during important intercounty matches. "Sure, it has happened during big matches when I've found myself out of breath, but as I say I have learned to manage it to a stage where my running and breathing become synchronised. You learn to adapt, but that comes too from speaking to your local GP and even a nutritionist who can help with the condition," he said. "While most days are fine, there are certain times when it can affect me more, like during cold weather or during the summer when pollen levels are high, so I still use an inhaler when I feel the need to. Thankfully, though, day-to-day it's pretty normal." Unfortunately, one such innocent use of his inhaler landed the Rathmore clubman at the centre of a media frenzy in November 2008, when he was suspended by the GAA pending an enquiry into a failed drugs test. He was later cleared of any wrongdoing after it was found that he had inhaled Salbutamol - a drug used to treat asthma. "I always knew I would be cleared so it wasn't really upsetting for me but I just thought it's hard enough for people with asthma to play sports besides having to go through something like that," he said. "I was never of the opinion that it enhanced my performance so I just hope the whole thing didn't turn people with asthma off sport." With an impressive sporting career still in full swing, Aidan says that he has never let asthma hold him back and he's keen to pass that message on to his young fans. "I'd definitely encourage young people with asthma to get involved in sports. Any sport, not necessarily football," he said. "Just keep training and talk to your doctor about managing the condition and don't give into it." 
