sport football
{ John Greene and Marie Crowe 
    October 27 2013 01:02 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/from-the-stands-individual-pursuits-continue-to-make-gains-29703126.html }
The prolonged recession this country is enduring isn't having an impact on the number of people taking part in sport or getting some form of physical exercise, but it is increasingly affecting how they go about it. The overall message coming from the latest survey on participation in sport is a good one: there are more people physically active now than two years ago. Okay, so the gains are marginal but there have been increases in each of the last three surveys – 2009, 2011 and 2013, which reflects very well on various schemes promoted by the Irish Sports Council and others. Still, certain trends which first became apparent in 2011 have continued: there is a decline in club membership, in volunteering and in attendance at sporting events; and there is a strong preference for individual pursuits ahead of team sports. This is bad news for the major sporting organisations, and with the impact of successive cuts yet to really manifest in these polls, it could get worse for them before it gets better. The latest survey, published on Friday by the ISC, covers the first six months of this year, so we won't get a fuller picture until the new year, when the full 12 months is included. So while an increase in general physical activity from 45 per cent to 47 per cent is a good news story for Irish sport, some have less to smile about. The GAA, IRFU and FAI have fewer members now than in 2011, as have golf clubs, as more and more people drift towards walking, running, cycling and even the gym (the number of people taking part in weights training doubled). It may be as much a reflection on modern life as it is on the economic climate, but is this another sign of the individual taking priority over the collective? * * * * * The merger of the Irish Sports Council and the National Sports Campus Development Authority into one authority with overall responsibility for Irish sport will draw a step nearer in the coming weeks. From the Stands can confirm that the Sports Ireland Bill – which is the legislation required to unite these two statutory bodies – is almost ready to be brought to the Cabinet by sports minister Michael Ring. Once it gets the OK, the Bill could be one of the first to be dealt with by government in the new year. * * * * * When a picture of the winning team at the Euro Football Fives soccer tournament in Barcelona appeared on Twitter last week, it made for interesting viewing. The six lads who were crowned champions did not look like those you'd expect to see holding the winning trophy at an international soccer tournament. The O'Neill's shorts and socks most of them were wearing looked out of place and there wasn't a tan to be seen. However, there were a few familiar faces in the line-up that would be more at home in Páirc Uí Chaoimh or Casement Park than the Bernabeu or the Camp Nou. Smiling for camera were inter-county players Kevin Niblock and Declan O'Hagan from Antrim and Cork's James Loughrey. The rest of the team included Antrim club footballers Duncan McAuley, Michael McCourt and Barry O'Neill, son of famous Down footballer Sean O'Neill. * * * * * Martin McHugh is not a man to pass up an opportunity to big up Ulster football, and he rattled a few cages last week with his comments on Cork football. McHugh, in his column in the Irish Daily Star, said that new manager Brian Cuthbert has a "massive job on his hands" and then offered the following: "What happened in the Cork county final perfectly illustrated one of his biggest problems. Brian Hurley scored 12 points for Castlehaven, five from play, but that would never have happened in Ulster." Presumably that's because Ulster defences are so great. That old chestnut – the 'it would never happen in Ulster' refrain – is becoming very tired. It's in the Ulster football lexicon, along with 'Ulster referees are the only ones who understand Ulster football' and 'the Ulster championship is the hardest championship to win'. So fair play to Michael Moynihan in the Irish Examiner for reminding McHugh that not only did Donegal lose to Mayo this year by 16 points, but that Cillian O'Connor chimed in with 3-4. Although, technically, maybe McHugh was right: that happened in Croke Park, not in Ulster.   ssport@independent.ie Sunday Independent 
