sport football
{  
    December 22 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/awards-for-blarneys-2005-sports-heroes-27055718.html }
2005 The Corkmand/Kostal Sports awards Blarney figured prominently among the 2005 The Corkmand/Kostal Sports awards winners for 2005, which were announced on Friday last.Rockban superstar Valerie Mulcahy receives her award in recognition of her outstanding contribution to the all-conquering Cork ladies football team. George OCallaghan is honoured for the pivotal role he 2005 The Corkmand/Kostal Sports awards Blarney figured prominently among the 2005 The Corkmand/Kostal Sports awards winners for 2005, which were announced on Friday last. Rockban superstar Valerie Mulcahy receives her award in recognition of her outstanding contribution to the all-conquering Cork ladies football team. George O’Callaghan is honoured for the pivotal role he played in Cork City’s march to the Eircom League title. And Mary Meagher’s devotion to Blarney/Inniscarra AC and athletics in general, earns her the ‘Sports Official’ award. Mulcahy and O’Callaghan began their sporting careers at St Patrick’s NS Whitechurch. Valerie was a member of the first Whitechurch team to win a Scíath na Scoil Ladies Football title, when she played alongside George’s younger sister Niamh. George won a Scíath na Scoil hurling and football double in 1991/1992. In the hurling final against Aghbullogue. He inspired his team to come from a half time deficit, to win 4-5 to 3-4 in the greatest comeback in the history of the competition. On leaving St Patrick’s, both Mulcahy’s and O’Callaghan’s careers continued to blossom. Valerie won All Ireland Club medals at junior and intermediate levels with her beloved Rockban. She represented Ireland at soccer at the World Student Games held in South Korea. Last year, she was a member of the Cork team that won the Munster Senior Ladies Football Championship for the first time, as well as picking up The Corkman/ Kostal Sports award for 2004. In 2005 Valerie did everything bar walk on water! Another Munster championship, along with ‘Player of the Match’ performances in Cork’s historic National league and All Ireland double, earned her an All Star award for Ladies Football, Vodaphone ‘Player of the Year’, and a Texaco Award for Ladies Football. Throw in the 2005 The Corkman/Kostal Sports award, and you have a sporting CV to make Roy of the Rovers turn green with envy. George O’Callaghan is now arguably the most talented soccer player in the Irish domestic game. But it was as a hurler that he first hit the local headlines. He played Dr Harty Cup hurling for North Monastery in the same team as Sean Óg Óhalpín, and was on the Glen Rovers senior team at the age of 16. He then moved to the UK, where he spent seven years in the English First Division with Port Vale. On returning to his native country, he was immediately snapped up by Cork City. He quickly established himself as the team’s talisman and is generally regarded as the main reason for the club’s success on the field. Mary Meagher has held the position of Blarney/Inniscarra AC of club delegate to the Cork County Board since the early 80s. In addition to her responsibilities as club delegate, she trains athletes four nights a week throughout the year. She spends most weekends transporting athletes to events as far apart as Dingle to Donegal and Skibbereen to Belfast. Since 1985, Mary has been the county board competition secretary. The role as competition secretary is a huge one. There are over 40 clubs in Cork and up to 1,000 athletes in any one day compete in the various county championships, in T&F (Indoor and Outdoor), Cross Country and Road Racing at both Adult and Juvenile level. Mary is mainly responsible for handling entries for the Cork Ladies Mini Marathon, which attracts 10,000 competitors annually. The event takes months of preparation for what is one of the biggest events in the country. Her duties also include providing details of the finishing times and placing of each individual athlete to the governing body and media. Mary is one of the main organisers of the annual Cork City Sports, which is the only International athletics event held in Ireland. Meagher is also secretary of Blarney Community Games. She is involved in the games at county and provincial level, as well officiating at the National finals held in Mosney, Co Meath. Mary Meagher’s overall contribution to athletics and young people makes her ideal choice as The Corkman/Kostal ‘Sports Official’ award winner for 2005. Mary, Valerie and George will be presented with their awards at The Corkman/Kostal Sports awards Gala Evening at the Springfort Hall, Mallow on February 11, 2006. 
