sport football
{ Eamonn Sweeney 
    January 05 2020 07:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/olympics/is-rowing-the-new-boxing-is-andy-farrell-up-to-the-job-the-20-big-sporting-questions-for-2020-38834689.html }
Today the sporting possibilities for 2020 are infinite, limited only by the strength of your imagination and your optimism. With 361 days left, the story of the year remains almost entirely unwritten. Piece by piece, like a whodunnit disclosing its secrets to the intrepid investigator, things will take shape. There will be surprises, dreams that come true and worst fears that are realised. Above all, questions will be answered. So here are 20 riddles, the solutions to which will go a long way towards deciding what we make of the decade's first year. 1: Is rowing the new boxing? 
Close
 Leinster’s Max Deegan has a big year ahead SPORTSFILE / We're all going to be self-appointed rowing experts in July. That's because the sport will carry Ireland's main Olympic hopes. And very strong hopes they are too. Sanita Puspure will go into the games as two-time world champion in women's single sculls while Ireland has also won the last two global crowns in men's lightweight sculls, with Paul O'Donovan partnering his brother Gary on the first occasion and Fintan McCarthy on the second. In the men's double sculls Philip Doyle and Ronan Byrne won silver at the worlds, are improving rapidly and will also be hoping for not just a medal but one of the golden variety. Seldom have Irish prospects in a single sport at the games looked so promising. Big things will happen in the week beginning July 24. Expect to hear much comment about the implications of the stroke rate at this point in the race and so on. Sure why not?   2: Is it worth playing the football championship? More and more people are going to ask this question if Dublin make it six in a row. Their 2018 cakewalk looked likely to be repeated last year until Kerry's performance in the drawn final prompted wild suggestions that the gap between the champions and their main rivals had closed dramatically. The replay, when both teams had 15 players for the entire game, suggested otherwise. Nevertheless the Kingdom remain the game's best hope of keeping the championship competitive. Should they falter, it will be a long pointless summer. There's only so much interest you can have in the question of whether Dessie Farrell has the Dubs playing a new style of game. 
Close
 Rory McIlroy Getty Images /   3: Is Mick McCarthy John Delaney's final joke on Irish football? McCarthy's appointment looked dubious enough at the start. It looks a lot worse after the team's underwhelming campaign in the European Championship qualifiers, while his decision to put the prestige of the job, such as it is, behind the FAI hierarchy with his speech in support of Association president Donal Conway seems spectacularly ill-judged now. Should Ireland fail to get past Slovakia or the winners of the Bosnia/Northern Ireland tie at the end of March, it will represent a failure of colossal proportions. In the last 50 years there's never been an Irish team which wouldn't have made a 24-team European finals. The imminent ascension of Stephen Kenny will offer cold comfort.   4: Is Andy Farrell up to the job? When Farrell was named as Joe Schmidt's successor we were told the great virtue of the appointment was the continuity it provided. In the aftermath of the World Cup debacle, Farrell's great strength is apparently that he does things differently from his old boss. It's hard to keep up sometimes. The Englishman's opening Six Nations schedule is a tough one with trips to Paris and Twickenham. Yet back-to-back home games against Wales and Scotland offers the opportunity of confidence-boosting victories before the acid test of a February 23 date with England. It will be an unusually fascinating Six Nations with Ireland keen to prove 2019 rather than 2018 was the fluke under a coach who has something to prove after his involvement in the Japan disaster.   5: Are Limerick back to their old tricks? Limerick's 2018 Liam MacCarthy Cup victory seemed to show that they had finally shed the title of team most likely to shoot itself in the foot. However, last year's supremely careless semi-final loss to Kilkenny followed by some unwise off-the-field shenanigans have led to renewed shakings of the head whenever the county's name is mentioned. They still have the best set of players in the country, but the question now is whether they can build on the success of two years ago or if they're fated to become one-hit wonders like the Clare team of 2013. A Munster championship which should be strengthened even further by the arrival of Brian Lohan in Clare and the restoration of Kieran Kingston in Cork, will test their mettle.   6: Is Altior there for the taking? At last year's Cheltenham Festival Nicky Henderson's great horse confirmed his apparently invincible status when winning the Champion Chase at odds of 4/11. In April, a win at Sandown saw him become the first horse ever to win 19 National Hunt races in a row. Yet a November defeat by Cyrname at Ascot suggested a new vulnerability and a host of challengers are queuing up to try and prevent Altior being only the second horse in history to win three Champion Chases in a row. Foremost among them are Philip Hobbs' Defi Du Seuil, impressive winner of the JLT Novices Chase at last year's festival, Willie Mullins' Chacun Pour Soi, who looked a wonder horse when trouncing the former at Punchestown last year, and Henry de Bromhead's A Plus Tard, who recently turned over Chacun Pour Soi at Leopardstown. The two-mile showdown on March 11 should be the race of the Festival.   7: Can Irish cricket halt the slide? The cancellation of Tests due to take place this year against Bangladesh and Sri Lanka have shown that being granted elite status is one thing, while having the wherewithal to take advantage of it is something very different. So a big Irish showing at the T20 World Cup, which takes place in Australia in October and November, is crucial. First they'll need to negotiate a preliminary group where victories over Oman and Papua New Guinea will be necessary to earn a spot in the Super 12 stages and high-profile games against England, India and South Africa. The meeting with rapidly improving Papua New Guinea on October 22 in Geelong could make or break Ireland's hopes.   8: Is Rory McIlroy back to his best? His stellar 2019 season when he rose to number two in the rankings suggested he may be. Yet the Major drought which has afflicted him since 2014 continued. Five years is too long for a player of McIlroy's ability to draw blanks in the sport's most important championships. World number one Brooks Koepka, on the other hand, has excelled in the Majors with four victories in the last three years. If McIlroy is to wrest top spot from Koepka, a breakthrough in the big four is imperative. April's US Masters, where the Irishman has made the top 10 in five of the last six years, would be a great place to start.   9: Is Jurgen Klopp the best manager in the world? He's certainly one of the best and the Premier League title which Liverpool will inevitably annex before this season is through will further burnish his reputation. But what would really confirm his status as primus inter pares is a second Champions League victory in a row. Barring the way are leaders of La Liga and Ligue 1, Barcelona and Paris Saint-Germain, and two powerful sides, Manchester City and Bayern Munich, who seem to have been saving their best for the European arena. Yet on their day there is something about Liverpool which brooks no resistance, as Barca found at Anfield last year. And while their huge lead in the Premier League has taken some of the excitement out of that competition, it may enable them to fully focus their attention on the Champions League sooner than might have been expected. 10: Is Pinatubo the real thing? Charlie Appleby's colt produced one of the all-time great two-year-old seasons, winning six out of six with great ease. He ended the season as the highest rated juvenile in a quarter of a century and there have been comparisons with the peerless Frankel, whose rating at the same age Pinatubo has surpassed. Already even money for the 2,000 Guineas, Pinatubo is undoubtedly a special talent. Yet the progression from potential to achievement is never inevitable in racing. Similar hype about Too Darn Hot this time last year was followed by a disappointing three-year-old campaign. Celtic Swing, so highly rated in 1994, also failed to deliver. But if Pinatubo can kick on like Frankel did, we may witness something spectacular at Newmarket on May 2.   11: How much love remains for Conor McGregor? It's easy to forget how crowded the Conor McGregor bandwagon was before things started to turn sour. Defeat, inactivity and unsavoury rumours have led to a slump in his reputation, but perhaps a win or two might be sufficient for the notorious one to regain his place in the public affection. We'll get a chance to test that theory on the 18th of this month when McGregor meets Michael Cerrone. Cerrone, a 36-year-old who's lost six of his last 10 fights, would seem ideal opposition for a fighter looking for a first victory since November 2016. Cue the redemption narratives.   12: Can Lamar Jackson go all the way? Lamar Jackson was such a prodigious college football talent that he won the Heisman Trophy for best player while still a junior. Yet when the 2018 draft came round, four quarterbacks and 27 other players got picked before him. His athletic high risk style, as dependent on running as passing, was viewed as a dodgy proposition in the NFL. Now Jackson has just led the Baltimore Ravens to the league's best regular season record and the coaches who overlooked him must feel like the guy at Decca who turned down The Beatles. Favourites to win the Super Bowl on February 2 in Miami, the Ravens' biggest threat may be AFC rivals Kansas City Chiefs, led by an equally prodigious but more orthodox young quarterback in Patrick Mahomes, and NFC favourites the San Francisco 49ers whose improvement from 4-12 to 13-3 represents an extraordinary achievement by 40-year-old coach Kyle Shanahan.   13: Is Coco Gauff the new Serena Williams? The 15-year-old American conjured up memories of wonderkids past with her thrilling progress to the fourth round at Wimbledon last year and subsequently went on to beat three world top 10-ranked players when winning the Linz Open in October. She definitely looks a good long-term bet to take over the helm in the women's game. In the short-term though, another teenager, Canada's Bianca Andreescu, may be the one to watch. The 19-year-old became the youngest Grand Slam winner in 15 years when hammering Serena Williams in the 2019 US Open final. The unceasingly adventurous Andreescu may be the most entertaining player in tennis right now and her progress in 2020, like Gauff's, will be fascinating to follow.   14: Is Football Coming Home? There's growing confidence across the water that this will be the year when football's great nearly men finally win their first major championship since 1966. The pair of Harry Kane and Raheem Sterling, who combined for an incredible 20 goals in England's eight qualifying group matches, will carry the burden of national expectations for a side who're definitely in with a shout. But so are World Cup holders France, a Belgian team which won 10 from 10 in the qualifiers and scored some 40 goals in the process and a resurgent Holland whose 3-1 win over England in June's Nations League semi-final seems to have entirely disappeared from our neighbours' memories. The new-look championships appears to be extremely open and there might even be a winner as surprising as Portugal were the last time.   15: Is there any stopping Leinster? The juggernaut rolls on with 14 wins from 14 games in Champions Cup and Pro14. Perhaps the most impressive thing of all is the revelation in these games of an apparently endless conveyor belt of home-grown talent. With one new wave of brilliant youngsters, Caelan Doris, Max Deegan, Ronan Kelleher and Will Connors making such an impression they've been called into the Irish squad by Andy Farrell, and the likes of Harry Byrne, Scott Penny, Rowan Osborne, Josh Murphy and Jimmy O'Brien also shining, the future looks distinctly Leinster shaped. Toulouse, Exeter and super cheats Saracens look best placed to prevent a second Leinster European triumph in three years, but it's hard to see any of them managing it. Despite the populist guff talked in the wake of Ireland's World Cup exit, no Irish sporting organisation matches Leinster Rugby for the consistent production of world class talent.   16: Can the Irish women's football team make the big breakthrough? With the European Championships taking place in England next year, there is a golden opportunity for Ireland to enormously raise the profile of the women's game here if they make a major tournament for the first time ever. A thrilling 3-2 win over second seeded Ukraine seemed to make that much more likely before an injury-time equaliser conceded away to the unfancied Greeks lessened the feelgood factor. Yet Ireland still look a good bet for the group runners-up spot which would guarantee them a place in October's play-offs. The match away to Ukraine on June 5 will be crucial while there will be a grand finale against certain group winners Germany on September 20. This could be a very exciting year for Irish women's football.   17: Is the game up for Jose Mourinho? Yes.   18: Is anyone as good at what they do as Simone Biles? No.   19: Can the Olympics save the good name of Athletics? Probably not.   20: Could this be the best ever Olympics for Ireland? It could. If we exclude your one's performances in 1996, only once in the last 50 years has Ireland won more than three medals at the games. That was in London when six were secured, by Katie Taylor, John Joe Nevin, Paddy Barnes, Michael Conlan, Cian O'Connor and Rob Heffernan (whose bronze was awarded some time later after the doping disqualification of Sergey Kirdyapkin.) This time round it's likely there'll be three medals in rowing. And 2018 world light welterweight champion Kellie Harrington also looks a good bet to take one in boxing. Which would bring us up to four right away. The three day eventing team and women's hockey sides which both won world silver in 2018 have to be considered contenders. Rhys McClenaghan's world bronze medal performance in the pommel horse would be good enough for a place on the podium in Tokyo. World number eight Darragh Kenny is a good medal prospect in showjumping where the team, which won the Nations Cup Grand Final last year, could also be in contention if it hits form. Brendan Boyce is a dark horse in the 50km walk after his sixth in last year's world championships. And while boxing will largely be flying under the radar this time, Harrington aside, European bantamweight champion Kurt Walker from Lisburn, who came within one bout of a medal at last year's worlds, is a genuine contender. So is Belfast featherweight Michaela Walsh, a four-time medallist at European Championships and Commonwealth Games, and others may yet emerge at the continent's qualifying tournament at London in March. The Olympics are always the highlight in whatever sporting year they take place. And there's never been such a spread of Irish interest in the games as there will be this time round. So enjoy. Enjoy all of it. Sunday Indo Sport 
