sport football
{  
    May 19 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/enniscorthyguardian/sport/other-sports/meet-the-ladies-27211226.html }
MARGARET D'ARCY (St. Martin's) - Age Student. Honours - County Under-16 and Senior 'B' championships. Other sports Socialising. Most difficult opponent Fiona O'Driscoll (Cork). Favourite sportsperson 21. Occupation Leinster Junior and two Senior; Club Leinster Junior. Other sports Mary Leacy (Wexford). Favourite camogie player Liam Dunne. CATHERINE O'LOUGHLIN (Monageer-Boolavogue) - Age Student. Honours - County All-Ireland Junior and Leinster Senior. Other sports Deirdre Hughes (Tipperary). Favourite camogie player David Beckham. KAREN ATKINSON (Oulart-The Ballagh) - Age Student. Honours - County Under-12, Under-14, Under-16, Under-18 and Senior championships; Schools Swimming. Most difficult opponent My sister, Colleen. Favourite sportsperson 24. Occupation All-Ireland Under-16, Leinster Under-14, Under-16 and Senior; Club Leinster Junior and Senior. Other sports Karate. Most difficult opponent Emma Barnes (Wexford). Favourite sportsperson 24. Occupation All-Ireland Under-16, Leinster Under-14, Under-16, Under-18 and five Senior; Club Ashbourne Shield. Other sports Golf. Most difficult opponent Kate Kelly (Wexford). Favourite sportsperson 17. Occupation Leinster Under-14 and Under-16; Club two All-Ireland Senior. Other sports Reading. Most difficult opponent çine Codd (Wexford). Favourite sportspeople 19. Occupation Under-14, Under-16, Junior and Intermediate championships; Schools Football, Soccer. Most difficult opponent Josie Dwyer (Ferns St. Aidan's). Favourite sportsperson 23. Occupation five Leinster Senior; Club two Ashbourne Cup, one league. Other sports Coaching. Most difficult opponent Ann Downey (Kilkenny). Favourite sportsperson 24. Occupation two All-Ireland Under-16, Leinster Senior; Club two Leinster Senior and two All-Ireland runners-up. Other sports Basketball. Most difficult opponent Orla Hernan (Wexford). Favourite sportsperson 18. Occupation Leinster Under-14, Under-16, Junior and two Senior; Club one Junior and two Senior All-Irelands. Other sports Socialising. Most difficult opponent Fiona Dunne (Oulart-The Ballagh). Favourite sportspeople 27. Occupation five Leinster Senior; Club Swimming. Other interests Fiona O'Driscoll (Cork). Favourite camogie player Sonia O'Sullivan. EVELYN QUIGLEY (Rathnure) - Age Student. Honours - County Under-14, Under-16, Under-18 and Senior championships; Colleges Football. Most difficult opponent Kate Kelly (Wexford). Favourite sportsperson 23. Occupation five Leinster Senior; Club Football, Soccer. Most difficult opponent Kate Kelly (Wexford). Favourite sportsperson 23. Occupation Under-16, Under-18 and four Leinster Senior; Club one Junior and three Leinster Senior; Colleges Soccer, Squash. Other interests Emma Carroll (St. Ibar's). Favourite camogie player D.J. Carey. EMMA BARNES (Faythe Harriers) - Age Student. Honours - County Soccer. Other interests Orla Hernan (Monageer-Boolavogue). Favourite camogie player George O'Connor (Faythe Harriers) and James McGarry. LOUISE CODD (Duffry Rovers) - Age Student. Honours - County Rackard League and Intermediate championship; Schools Swimming, Socialising. Most difficult opponent Deirdre Hughes (Tipperary). Favourite sportspeople 19. Occupation Leinster Under-16, Junior and two Senior; Club two Minor, two Junior, one Senior. Other sports Socialising. Most difficult opponent Ciara Gaynor (Tipperary). Favourite sportsperson 22. Occupation Leinster Junior and two Senior; Club Soccer, Football. Most difficult opponent Kate Kelly (St. Ibar's). Favourite sportsperson 23. Occupation All-Ireland Under-16, Leinster Under-16, Under-18 and Senior; Club two All-Ireland runners-up. Other sports All difficult. Favourite camogie player Catherine Murphy (Rathnure). AOIFE O'CONNOR (Rathnure) - Age Sales Representative. Honours - County Under-14, Under-16 and Senior championships; two Leinster Senior and one All-Ireland. Other sports Music, Drama. Most difficult opponent Ann Reddy (Rathnure). Favourite sportsperson 23. Occupation Under-16, Under-18 and four Leinster Senior; Club one Junior and three Leinster Senior; Colleges Soccer. Other interests Eileen O'Brien (Limerick). Favourite camogie player Mick O'Leary (Rathnure and Wexford). MAG KELLY (St. Ibar's) - Age Beauty Therapist. Honours - County Under-12, Under-14, Under-16, Under-18 and four Senior championships, four leagues. Other sports Socialising. Most difficult opponent Kate Kelly (sister). Favourite sportsperson 20. Occupation Leinster Junior and two Senior; Club Football. Other interests Michelle Hearne (St. Ibar's). Favourite camogie player Liam Dunne. MARTINA MURRAY (Ferns St. Aidan's) - Age Factory worker. Honours - County Junior and Intermediate championships. Other sports çine Codd (St. Martin's). Favourite camogie player Roy Keane. UNA LEACY (Oulart-The Ballagh) - Age Student. Honours - County Under-12, Under-14, Under-16, Under-18 and Senior championships, five All-Ireland F?ile medals; Schools Soccer, Football. Other interests Aisling Hogan (Rathnure). Favourite camogie player Kieran McGeeney. JENNY CODD (Duffry Rovers) - Age Student. Honours - County Under-14 and Intermediate championships; Schools Football, Soccer. Other interests Alison White (Limerick). Favourite camogie player Michael Schumacher. 
