sport football
{  
    September 05 2007 01:01 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/localnotes/around-the-villages-27126392.html }
All the news, events and happenings from your village. Stamullen Brendan Matthews 01 8413033 Balbriggan history talk COMMUNITY Historian, Brendan Matthews, will present a talk on aspects of the history of Balbriggan this Thursday evening in the Bracken Court Hotel, Balbriggan beginning at 8.30. All are welcome to attend. The event is being run by the Balbriggan & District Historical society as part of Heritage Week. Back to school THE kids are all back to school over the next few days, so leave yourselves plenty of extra time to get to your work place, due to the onslaught of vehicles that will converge on the roads with the children being dropped off to school. Of course there will be extra mayhem at our local national school here at Cock hill due to the commencement of the new extension to the school, so be extra careful and mindful of heavy machinery in the area. As for the kids, their still waiting for the ?scorching hot summer? that was being forecast back in the early spring. Gormanston train station I NOTICE that, on the Iarnrod Eireann website that Irish Rail had a notice to the effect that from June 25 last and for an approximate 14 week period, works on expanding Gormanston train station?s car park would take place and that, as a result of these works, the car parking would be increased to that of 200 spaces. Taking a walk down in that area over the last few days I see that the works are indeed well under way; however although many motorists from the surrounding area of Gormanston and Stamullen use the train from here each working day, the busiest time at the station is in the early morning from 6 until 8 or 9am and again in the evening from 5 until 7pm, while throughout the mid morning and early afternoon the station is pretty much deserted. Up until now there was only car parking spaces for 20 vehicles and, to the annoyance of local residents, the cars were parked all over the end of station road causing congestion, etc. The new car parking facilities are to be welcomed, but why so many spaces? Is Iarnrod Eireann perhaps planning to lower the train fares to the city to match the fares in nearby Balbriggan station, a mere 4km away. They say that they are trying to encourage more people to avail of their services which would free up the roads network, so why then can?t they go one step further and lower the fares to match those in Fingal? Local residents are also concerned about the on-going works at the station as the car parking facilities are close to their properties; a car was in fact burned out there only three weeks ago and, every other night yobs are driving down around the station and to the nearby strand creating all sorts of antics. The local residents are also worried about their property boundaries and that of the train station, they want to feel secure and safe, but some of them feel that they are being kept in the dark by the authorities and they now want straight answers from Earnrod Eireann before the completion of the works. Families have been there for a long time, residing here in a beautiful tranquil setting; they have a right to feel safe and remain that way? One more thing. With the upgrading of the new car parking facilities, will there also be an input from our favourite county council in upgrading the station road itself and to install a footpath from the N1 to the station for the safety of the pedestrians, or perhaps they too can be encouraged to use cars as there will be ample space available in the near future? Know Your Parish THE following adverts appeared on the first page of the Drogheda Independent newspaper in July of 1921.Sale of Hay at Kilbreckstown, Stamullen. I am instructed by Mr. John Purfield to sell by Auction on Monday 11th July 1921, 70 large cocks of 2nd and 3rd crop Hay, in lots to suit purchasers. Terms and conditions at sale. Sale at 1 o?clock (Summer time). Also, I am instructed by Mr. Thomas McCourt, Stamullen village, to sell by Auction on Monday 11th July 1921, 50 large cocks of 1st crop of best upland meadow Hay in lots to suit5 purchasers. Terms and conditions at sale, which will begin at 2.30 o?clock (Summer time). Thomas Wade Auctioneer and Valuer, Balbriggan.? Two weeks later, the following advert also appeared on the front page of the Drogheda Independent.County Meath. Executor?s Sale of horses, cows, implements, Hay, Straw, Etc, at Harbourstown, Stamullen. We have received instructions from the Executrix of the late Mrs. A.M.S. Cary-Caddell to sell by Auction at Harbourstown, on Tuesday 16th August 1921, at 2 o?clock (New time). Horses, Black Gelding, 3 years old by Naylor, dam by Wild Sherry, partly broken: Farm Mare stinted to Royal Tom: Farm Gelding. 5 Dairy cows, Donkey, Reaper and Binder (Massey Harris), nearly new: Bamford Lever Rake, Hay Gatherer, Metal Roller, 2 Chilled Ploughs and Swings, Iron Harrow, Spring Harrow, Mower and Reaper. Hunter Hoe, Spring Cart and Crib, Victoria, 2 outside Cars, Station Cab by O?Neill: Dog Cart, 2 Sets Cart Harness, Old Saddle, 2 Ladders. Collars and Backbands. Rick prime New Meadow Hay. Terms and conditions at sale. Robert B. Daly and Son Ltd, Auctioneers and Land Agents, Drogheda.? Donore Francis Gogarty 041 9835198 Training UNDERAGE training takes place every Wednesday at 7pm in St Mary?s Park Donore. Contact Paul Scanlon for further details 087-2849794. Sports day THE date for the sports day has now been moved to Sunday, September 9. Anyone interested in helping out on the day should contact the committee. RTE People In Need Telethon 2007 The telethon is a very unique charity, its run by the community for the community , all money collected in the county stays in the county. Money can be raised a number of ways in your area, competitions, quizzes, head shaves etc. They are looking for volunteers to help out with different events we will be running and in the offices for one or two hours, if anyone is interested they should contact Karen Healy Bettystown court hotel Bettystown 041-9828603, 085-1362886.Email meath@eircom.net Golf classic IN aid of Knockcommon National School, will take place on Friday September 7 in Navan Golf Course from 8.30am to 4pm. Three ball scramble, four-course meal and goodie bags. Price per team ? 240 (three per team), sponsor a hole ?100 each. For information contact the committee members Theresa Outram 087-9746779 or Anna Tully 086-1584840. Main organisers and tee times, Patsy Coogan 087-6503839 or Thomas Tully 086-8697613. Julianstown Iris Cunningham 086 4033557 25th Anniversary ST Mary?s R.C. Church Julianstown commemorated its 25th anniversary on Saturday evening last with Mass at 7.30pm celebrated by Bishop Michael Smith. There was a great turnout for this event and for the celebration in Whitecross NS. afterwards. Shooting Star WELL done to Shane Flynn from Corbalis who was part of the Irish team competing in one of the biggest shooting competitions in England on August 8 last. Shane did best of the Irish in the men?s event, qualifying for the final by scoring a personal best in the qualifying rounds and then staying in contention until the final. Shane is a son of Ann & Ed Flynn from Corbalis and follows in the footsteps of other sporting heroes from the area in representing his country. Library Service PLEASE note there are still a lot of overdue books that have not been returned. If you have difficulty in getting to the new premises, please ring 086-4033557 and they can be collected. Golf Classic ST Pat?s are holding a Golf Classic at Bellewstown Golf Club this Friday, August 31. There will be a shotgun start at 1.30pm. Final details for entry of teams to Paul Tobin on 087-370761 or Therese O?Donovan on 087-2048674. How Far Will You Go for People in Need? THE RTÉ People in Need Telethon 2007, in association with Eircom, is back! Set to broadcast on RTÉ One on Friday, October 26, the return of the Telethon is exciting news for charities and community groups around the country. The People in Need Trust is encouraging people to log on to www.telethon.ie to register their events in line with their ?How Far Will You Go for People in Need? theme. Karen Healy is the coordinator for this area and will be based at the Bettystown Court Hotel. More news about local events as they come to hand. Heritage Day THIS Sunday September 2 10.30am to 5pm at Sonairte the Ecology Centre there will be talk on seed saving at 1pm with Laura Turner. Archaeology of Newgrange /Boyne Valley at 2pm with Geraldine Stout. Use of hemp and lime in building and construction at 3.30pm with Henry O?D Thompson. Art House Classes ART House in Mornington is now taking bookings for all September courses of Children?s and Adults art classes. Classes include after school and Saturday classes for children, Morning and Evening Classes for Adults, Teen Art Classes for ages 13-17 and Art Grinds. Classes commence from September 17, Phone 9887656, or Liz on 086-3922945 and Gill on 087-2260376. Bellewstown Iris Cunningham 086 4033557 Bellewstown Races THE second race meeting at Bellewstown will take place today Wednesday, August 29 and Thursday, August 30. Both are evening meetings and Thursday is Ladies Day with great prizes for the ladies. Bellewstown Inn THERE will be live music for the two evenings of the Bellewstown race meeting in the Bellewstown Inn. The restaurant will also be open for meals until last orders at 9.30p.m. each evening. I hear the steaks are delicious. You can also enjoy Sunday lunch from 12.30 until 4.30p.m. for ?11.95 each Sunday. Photographic Exhibition BELLEWSTOWN Heritage Group has much pleasure in inviting everyone to its Photographic Exhibition which takes place in the Parish Hall, Bellewstown this Saturday, September 1 at 7pm and Sunday, September 2 from 10am to 2pm. Photos from 1895 onwards, enlarged and labelled, show Bellewstown people, buildings, parties, sporting events, school groups, social events etc. This is an excellent opportunity to get a glimpse of Bellewstown history, perhaps even a glimpse of your younger self, during Heritage Week. Bellewstown P&P CONGRATULATIONS to Cathy Richardson and Tommy Costello who came 3rd in the Leinster Mixed Foursomes at Erry on Sunday last. Congrats also to Marie & Richard Brennan who won the 18nett prize in the same event. They also qualified for the National Mixed Foursomes to be played at the Rocklodge club in Cork on September next. Mary & Tom Kennedy also qualified for the final. Well done to everyone involved. Good Luck TO Martin Branigan and Eddie Nolan in the final of the National Seniors Championships to be held at St. Patrick?s in Wexford this Sunday, September 2. Course Closed THE course will be closed this Wednesday and Thursday because of the Bellewstown Races, and there will be no club competitions this weekend as the course is booked on Saturday and Sunday. Fun Nights THE fun nights for children over 8 years of age and adults who would like to try out the game of pitch & putt will continue on Monday evenings at 7pm. All are welcome, come along and try it, all ages welcome. You can enjoy a cup of tea after the game. Mornington Leo Boyle 041 9828082 Willow Keneghan Memorial Cup THE late Willow Keneghan has not been forgotten, and rightly so. Willow was a man who put a lot of work into his community as many people would be aware of. John Andrews, a great friend of the late Willow, has organised a small golf tournament for altar servers and their friends. This tournament is set to expand from next year and will have its own slot in the Golf Club?s diary. This is the Willow Keneghan Memorial or Perpetual Cup. This year?s event took place on Wednesday last and 15 players took part. On the day, Conor Whelan emerged victorious and Nicholas Collins was the runner up. Community Games CONGRATULATIONS to young Conor Hoey on his admirable performance whilst representing Meath in the National finals of Community Games in the swimming section Back Stroke. Art House Classes ART House in Mornington is now taking bookings for all September courses of Children?s and Adults art classes. Classes include after school and Saturday classes for children, Morning and Evening Classes for Adults, Teen Art Classes for ages 13-17 and Art Grinds. Classes commence from September 17, Phone 9887656, or Liz on 086-3922945 and Gill on 087-2260376. Laytown/ Bettystown Iris Cunningham 086 4033557 Car boot sale A CAR boot sale is held in the car park of Laytown church, this and every Sunday, starting at 10am. There is a wide array of goods for sale every week, including bric a brac, clothing, furniture, antique furniture, jams, organic eggs and cakes, among other things. East Meath Bridge Club EAST Meath Bridge Club will re-open Tuesday, September 11 in Village Hotel. Play commences at 8pm sharp. The Committee hopes that all our members had a good summer, and we are looking forward to welcoming you all back to an exciting 'Season of Bridge'!! Telethon for People in Need THE RTÉ People in Need Telethon 2007, in association with Eircom, is back! Set to broadcast on RTÉ One on Friday, October 26, the return of the Telethon is exciting news for charities and community groups around the country. The People in Need Trust is encouraging people to log on to www.telethon.ie to register their events in line with their ?How Far Will You Go for People in Need? theme. Karen Healy is the coordinator for this area and will be based at the Bettystown Court Hotel. Watch out for People in Need at the Bellewstown Races this week and give a few bob. Weight Watchers PAULINE of Weight Watchers would like to remind you that weekly classes continue each Wednesday in the Village Hotel in Bettystown. There is a morning class at 11am. Then in the evening at 5.30pm and another at 6.45pm and a Men Only class at 8pm. For further information you can ring Pauline on 086-8891852. new members always welcome. Art House Classes ART House in Mornington is now taking bookings for all September courses of Children?s and Adults art classes. Classes include after school and Saturday classes for children, Morning and Evening Classes for Adults, Teen Art Classes for ages 13-17 and Art Grinds. Classes commence from September 17, Phone 9887656, or Liz on 086-3922945 and Gill on 087-2260376. Laytown Library PLEASE note there are still a lot of overdue books that have not been returned. If you have difficulty in getting to the new premises, please ring 0864033557 and they can be collected. Laytown P & P COMPETITION Sunday, August 26, 3 Ball Scramble Winners;- Paddy Orange, Jimmy Kirk & Liam Flood Competition as usual next Sunday, September 2. Last Card 9.15 a.m. Competition for Captains Prize has been rescheduled for Sunday, September 9. Heritage Day THIS Sunday September 2 10.30am to 5pm at Sonairte the Ecology Centre there will be talk on seed saving at 1pm with Laura Turner. Archaeology of Newgrange /Boyne Valley at 2pm with Geraldine Stout. Use of hemp & lime in building and construction at 3.30pm with Henry O?D Thompson. There will also be demonstrations on the following: Blacksmith Wool spinner; wood turner; Trad Music; Potters wheel; Bread making; Talk on Local History. Visit Sonairte?s Museum & Rath and the Café, Nature trail and garden. All welcome.. Duleek Ann Finger 041 9823415 Fr Brennan?s Mass IF you would like to be collected and brought to Duleek for the mass for Fr David by Flexibus on Friday, August 31, please contact Linda on 086-3176654. First Communion Calls THERE will be no First Friday Communion Calls for September to allow Fr John Conlon time to settle in to his role as Parish Priest. Calls will take place in October. Duleek Development Association THE next DDA meeting will be on Tuesday, September 4 at 7.30pm in the prayer rooms. Duleek Bridge Club THE club reopens on Thursday, September 6 in the Carranstown Lodge at 8pm. New members welcome. Irish Dancing THE Maureen Wynne School of Dancing will reopen on Monday September 3 at 7pm in the parish centre. Duleek Womens Forum THE Duleek Womens Forum will reopen on Tuesday, September 11 at 10.30am in the prayer rooms. New members welcome. Fr Ryan?s Park Soccer THE last ever Fr. Ryans Park will take place on Thursday August 30 from 4.30 to 6pm. Duleek Rovers U13 Soccer Team THE team are looking for players. If you are interested, contact Craig on 086-6086090 after 7pm. Duleek Lourdes Pilgrimage 2008 LOURDES next year will see a great amount of Pilgrims to celebrate the 150th year of the First Apparition of ?Our Lady? to St. Bernadette. Pope Benedict is expected to Visit Lourdes in May. The Duleek and District Pilgrimage is booked for September 20 2008. David of Joe Walsh Tours has advised that names and deposits be paid anytime from now up until February 2008 in order to secure a place. Preparations are being made in Lourdes since June when I visited there as this is a very important event. We stay in the Jeanne D?Arc as usual which is a very popular Hotel run by Madam and Monsieur Henry Cassin, and also their son Oliver and his wife Helen. For further information, contact Rena on 041-9823738 as bookings are already coming in. Duleek Heritage Group AT a well attended AGM on Monday August 13, it was decided, in conjunction with National Heritage week, to highlight Duleek Commons. This wonderful amenity with it?s many aspects, both historical and environmental is almost on the doorstep of the village, and is very much part of the culture and heritage of Duleek. With so much open space, it was inevitable that dumping would reer its ugly head. But Duleek heritage group and Meath county council combined their efforts to clean up the area affected and to stamp out the practice. On Sunday September 2, a walk on the commons led by Dr. Donal Synnott will take place to mark National Heritage Week. Assembly for the walk will be at the Drogheda Road entrance at 2.30pm. Everyone is welcome. Dr. Donal Synnott is the author of a very interesting book on Duleek Commons entitled ?A Common Green?, and is expert on all it?s many aspects. The group are fortunate and most grateful to Dr Synnott to come along and share his great knowledge of the Commons with us. Fundraiser DULEEK?S Got Talent/Star?s in Their Eyes in aid of Parish Schools will take place in O?Neill?s, Duleek on Friday, August 31. Anyone interested in participating, please contact Sharon or Seamus on 041-9823467. Strictly over 18s only. Duleek GFC Golf Classic UNFORTUNATELY due to the bad weather our Golf Classic, planned for July 13, had to be abandoned. It has been re-scheduled for Thursday, September 6 with the same timesheet. Contact Oliver Cudden or Gerry Tallon for further details. It is not too late to sponsor tee boxes at ?100 each. Duleek GFC Lotto Results THIS week?s lotto results are as follows: Jackpot ?1400, No winner. Numbers were 8, 25, 27, 29. Winners of ?20 are: Clara Connell c/o A Brodigan, Brendan Moore c/o B Moore, C Fleming c/o M Moore, Paul Heeney c/o L Clinton, Aoife + Katie Lenehan c/o J Lenehan. Next week?s lotto ?1500. Duleek A.F.C/St. Margarets CSC Lotto Draw: RESULTS for week ending August 21. Numbers Drawn: 3-22-31-32. Jackpot of ?6900 Won By Johnny Murray C/O Brendan Mc Keown. Match 3 Win or Share ?100: Smally C/O Nagga & Mick Cassidy C/O Hilly. Next week?s jackpot: ?1000. Jackpot rising by ?100 Each Week. Draw Takes Place every Tuesday Night in O?Neill?s, Duleek. Ardcath/ Clonalvy Iris Cunningham 086 4033557 Ardcath Festival 2007 LIST of events: Monday, September 3 ? Whist night with raffle in Bennett?s pub at 9pm; Wednesday, September 5 ? Poker Classic with raffle at 9pm. Tickets ?30; Friday, September 7 ? Quiz night with raffle in Bennett?s pub at 9pm; Friday, September 7 ? children?s Disco in Pavilion from 7-9pm; Saturday, September 8 ? Theme night in Bennett?s pub at 9pm; Sunday, September 9 ? patron day ? Mass, Prayers, and blessing of the graves 2pm; Saturday, September 16 ? Children fun day with plenty of races/novelties/side shows including fancy dress/pet show competition etc. in Masterson Park GAA Grounds at 2pm. Parishioners are asked to support all the events and enjoy them. Bring all your friends and neighbours. Community Games All Ireland results WELL done to Grace O?Sullivan who won the U/17 Girls Community Games All Ireland Javelin Final at Mosney this weekend. Grace threw the javelin 31.82m to claim victory in a closely fought competition. This has been the second All Ireland javelin win for Grace, as she took the U/17 National title earlier this year. St Vincent?s Juvenile Football THE U/8 team had a very good day at a Blitz in St. Colmcilles on Saturday where over 100 children from 6 clubs participated. Playing for St Vincent?s were E. Corry, D. Corry, L. Corry, P. Mc Gill, C.O?Brien, J. Fox, C. Hall Lynch, R. Andrews and C. Andrews. Ardcath I.C.A. THE first meeting of the new season will take place on Thursday, September 6. (Please note change of day.) There will be a demonstration of wreath making , which should be of great interest with the Blessing of graves coming up on 9th September. Members are also asked to keep Tuesday, October 23 free for an outing to the National Concert Hall in Dublin to see Paddy Cole & Friends. We are looking forward to seeing all our members back at our Guild meeting next week. Clogherhead Deirdre Delaney 086 8754647 Clogherhead Development Group LOCAL Lotto results for August 23 for jackpot of ?1700. No?s were 13, 16, 21 and 24. Congratulations to our ?50 draw winners are Kay Morris, Grangebellew c/o Direct Debit and Mary Kirwan, St. Michael?s Terrace c/o Ann Levins. Jackpot next week ?1725. Lotto envelopes available in Harbour Bar, Steve are Barbers, Maria?s Hairdressing, Community Hall and any committee member. The Development Group is online, at www.clogherhead.com Fr C. O?Brien Retirement Afternoon Tea FR O?Brien, P.P. would like to express his sincere thanks and congratulations to all concerned for the magnificent tea and presentation on Sunday last, to mark his retirement, for the beautiful gifts he received, and greetings and well wishes for his future. He spent 12 years here as our P.P. and went about his work in a most quiet and unassuming manner, dignity and civility to all seemed to be his top priority. I shall remember him most for his ?Foibles? in the monthly newsletter. His ?Wit? reminded me of how you would like your Steak done, Funny, Very Funny, Extremely Funny. I hope you all understand where I am coming from. It is hoped that he will return to good health very soon and remember his time with us with fondness. The organising committee would also like to thank all who prepared the hall, cooked, served and cleaned up after the function. Parish 10 Week Draw RESULTS from week 10: ?150 Fiona Kirwan, St. Michael?s Tce. Promoter: Aileen Levins. ?50 Joyce Phillips, Mayne. Promoter: Margaret Mathews. ?25 Joyce Marry, Callystown. Promoter: Deirdre Delaney. ?25 Asumpta Murphy, Brittas. Promoter: Carmel Corry. Results from Parish Special Draw:750 Delores Byrne, Balbriggan. Promoter: Fr. O?Brien. ?500 Joyce Marry, Callystown. Promoter: Deirdre Delaney. ?125 Nanette Ledwith, Garvilla. Promoter: Maura Kearney. ?125 Garry O?Brien, Rinkinstown. Promoter Rosaleen Morgan. Rev. Fr. C. O?Brien PP would like to extend his sincere thanks to all who took part in the draw and especially the collectors. Ladies Keep Fit & Football EVERY Thursday nights from 7pm ? 8pm there will be Football and Keep Fit in the All Weather Pitch on the Callystown Road. An hour of fun and laughter is guaranteed. Hope to see you there. Irish Dance Classes THE Corrigan ? White School of Irish Dancing Classes will be starting on Monday, September 3 in the Community Hall 5.30. ? 6.45. pm. ?Lord of the Dance? and ?Riverdance? members and previous World Champion, will be on hand to teach ?Beginners? students. Classes also in Termonfeckin Community Centre on Friday, September 7 6pm ? 7.30pm (Age 3 ? 7) 7.30. - 9.00.p.m. (Age 7 +). Further information on 086 8911932. Ladybird Lane Day Nursery & Montessori THE Nursery offers full & part day care and is now enrolling for the baby room, toddler playgroup, Montessori and After School Club, which includes collection from the local schools. Open Mon ? Fri 7.45am ? 6pm. Tel: 041 98 89810 and 086 1515533 for further information. Mags Playschool MAGS and staff are looking forward to seeing their ?old? and ?new? students to the Playgroup on Monday, September 3. Clogherhead Lifeboat Station THE Annual General Meeting of the fundraising committee of the station will take place (tonight) Wednesday, September 5 at 8pm in the station. All present members and intending members are invited to attend. If you would like to help in any way, but not join the committee, you would be very welcome. Dreadnots Football Bingo THE Bingo organised by the local Dreadnots Football Club, continues every Monday night in the Community Hall at 8.30pm. All are welcome. Get Well Greetings A SPEEDY recovery is sent to all Parishioners who are ill, either at home, in hospital, and in the various convalescence and respite homes in the area. Sincere thanks are extended to those who care for them there. Birthday Greetings CELEBRATING his 60th birthday recently was Joe Delaney, O?Donnell Park. Also celebrating were twins Ciara Lowes, Lea Cottages and Orla Levins, Strand Street (nee McCormacks). Wedding Anniversary CELEBRATING their anniversary on Sunday last was Patrick & Teresa Smith, John Kirk Park. Love and best wishes from Michelle, Kevin, Alan and Padraig. Termonfeckin Nicholas Duff 087 2486472 Sandpit ceili TERMONFECKIN Macra na Feirme will hold a Ceili in Mc Hugh?s, Chord Road Drogheda this Wednesday, August 29 at 9pm. Music is provided by Triskell. Fear an Ti. John Mc Evoy. There will also be a Raffle and Supper on the night. Admission is ?8. All are welcome. Further details available from Niamh at 087-2741893. Playschools SANDPIT Play School re-opens next Monday, September 3 in Sandpit Hall at 9.15am. Pauline and Eileen are looking forward to meeting children already attending returning for another term and also those who are attending for the first time. They are also looking forward to meeting parents of the children attending. A reminder that Termonfeckin Play School re-opens next Monday, September 3 in Termonfeckin Community Centre. Schools re-opening BOTH parish schools re-open this week. Cartown School re-opens Thursday morning August 30 and Termonfeckin School on Friday morning August 31. Seapoint Pitch and Putt Club RESULTS of the 18 Gross competition held over the weekend. Senior winner Pat Greene on 47 gross. Intermediate winner Declan Brogan on 52 gross. Junior winner Paddy Davis on 56 gross. Ladies winner Jane Fanning who scored 55 Gross. This Wednesday evening there will be a Club 3 Ball Scramble competition at 7pm. Next weekend there will be an 18 Net Competition. Times of play, Friday and Saturday at 2pm and Sunday at 9.30am. Irish dancing IRISH Dancing Classes for beginners will be given by the Corrigan-White School of Irish Dancing beginning in Termonfeckin Community Centre starting on Friday, September 7. Ages 3-7 will be catered for from 6pm to 7.30pm and those aged 7 and over will be catered for from 7.30pm to 9pm. The Dancing Teachers have experience from Riverdance and Lord of the Dance and also one is a previous World Champion. The Corrigan-White School of Irish Dancing will also be holding classes for beginners starting on Monday, September 3 from 5.30pm to 6.45pm. Further details available from Darina Corrigan at 086-8911932. St Fechin?s GFC Lotto results THE numbers drawn were 3, 8.12 and 20. There was no jackpot winner. The ?100 winner was Peter Carroll Beaulieu. ?20 winners were Raymond Meegan Belcotton, Cillian Mc Cormack Sheetland Road, Sheila Fanning Big Street, Peggy Pentony Galroostown and Nuala Hagan Balbriggan. This week?s jackpot is worth ?1,100. Dunleer Mary Rose McConnoran 087 2898249 Dunleer AC Bonus Ball Lotto draw WEEK 50 Bonus Ball number 33 Winners: Thomas O'Hare, Paddy Darby and Sandra O'Brien Bonny baby CONGRATULATIONS to Adam Moses McConnoran on his trophy for the Dunleer Bonny baby. Dromin Utd Draw RESULTS ?200 winner: Catherine Doyle. Next week?s jackpot is ?12600. Reserve Jackpot ?4800. Blood donor clinic BLOOD Transfusion Service August 28 in the Recreation Centre from 4.30 to 9pm. Donating blood makes it possible for many people to lead normal healthy lives. Every year thousands of patients require blood transfusions in our hospitals, because they are undergoing surgery, recovering from cancer or have been in a serious accident. Back to school BEST wishes to all students heading back to school and who are just beginning anew. Scoíl Uí Mhuiri are reopening as follows, 1st and 2nd years will start tomorrow, August 30, 2nd and 3rd years will restart on Friday, August 31 and the Leaving Cert Applied and Transition year will start back on Monday, September 3. All classes commence at 8.50 am so make sure your in early to get prepared. Aerobics classes AEROBICS is starting back from Wednesday September, 4 in the Grove Hotel. The class starts at 7.30pm. Charge ?6.50, all fitness levels welcome. Contact Aoife on her new number 087-2602953. WTF Taekwondo Classes WTF TAEKWONDO classes will recommence on Thursday, September 6 in the Recreation Hall, Shamrock Hill, Dunleer. Also their second class will recommence on Tuesday, September 11. Classes are as follows: Thursdays 6.15pm to 7.45pm (juniors: 5 years to 14 years); 7.30pm to 9pm (seniors: 14 years plus); Tuesdays: 6.15pm to 7.45pm (mixed, juniors and seniors). All are welcome, old, present and new. Any queries ring/text Amanda on 086-1651482. Weekly car boot sale THE car boot sale is still going strong every Sunday from 11am until 4pm in the Recreation Centre Dunleer. Parish Adult Choir NEXT practice Monday September 10 at 7.30pm in the church. New choir members invited. Please contact parish office or any choir member. School opening ST Kevin's N.S., Philipstown are open today. Note that junior infants will finish at 12.30p.m on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. Monast?boice Paddy Holdcroft 041 6851927 Parish Sports Day SOUNDS like this Sunday?s parish sports day will do exactly what it says on the tin- be a day of great sport. What better way to kick off the old back to school blues than taking part in three legged races, face painting, lucky dips, guess who? Etc. I?m sure if you look hard enough there?ll be something there for the kids too?? Don?t miss it. Great Night I THINK that all in attendance at last Saturday?s Martins 50th anniversary dinner dance will concur that it was a marvellous night. The more times that long forgotten memories were recalled, one was reminded how many young people the Naomh Martins presently have and how many have come through the club over the past 50 years. It made you realise what a great club it is and was a privilege it is to be part of it. Here?s to 50 more. Birthday Wishes HAPPY birthday to young Thomas Clarke who turned 6 (and other things besides) on Sunday last. Stonehouse?s finest celebrated his big day by inviting his buddies for a right auld knees up (and other things besides. No doubt they all had a great time. Lottos MULLARY Cemetery, Saturday, August 18. No. 29. The winners were Harry Brennan and Alice Clarke. Naomh Martin: The numbers drawn were 10-11-12-24. The ?20 winners were Malachy Callan, Robert Caffrey, Bernie and Jack Mulroy, Denise Doherty and Anna Mulholland. The Jackpot this week is ?4,000. See No Evil-Hear No Evil THERE is one thing in life that you never want to see and one thing in life that you never want to hear. The former no-no is watching a sausage being made. And the one you don?t want to hear? The announcement that the schools of the parish will open this week. Yuk Yuk Yuk. Albion Rovers IF you are born on or after 1992 and are interested in playing the beautiful game at under 14 level, Albion Rovers would be most interested in hearing from you. Further information can be obtained by ringing 087 9746367. Tennis Coaching THE Naomh Martin Tennis Club wish to inform all its members that it will host a ten week coaching session, starting on Saturday, September 8. Each session will take place from 2 to 4p.m. and the cost will be a very reasonable ?50. These sessions are for all ages from 5 to 65, so if you feel your ability is not limited to a game of poker, why not sign up for a session. (The weather is supposed to be great in September) For further info and booking ring 087-6930947. Tullyallen Hilary Kelly 041 982 6583 Heritage Week 2006 HERITAGE Week is upon us once again when Old Mellifont Abbey opens its doors to all (free of charge on Sunday from 10am to 5pm). On Sunday next (September 2) a piece of musical theatre will be held at 4pm based on the life of Hugh O?Neill. The drama was written by David O?Kelly and the music by Michael Holohan. On Sunday evening at 8pm, Brian Friel?s play ?Making History? will commemorate the 400th Anniversary of the Flight of the Earls. Back to school TODAY (August 29 at 9.30pm) sees the first day of the school term for the boys and girls of Tullyallen. Some will dread it some will love it and some will be quite indifferent to it. But one thing is for sure; the roads will be awash with ?The Walking Ladies? once more. With the little angles back in the capable hands of Mr McHugh and his trusty staff the ladies will be putting on their walking shoes, baseball hats and walkmans, ipods and mp3 players (for the serious walkers) and going hell for leather. Music Classes WITH summer holidays finally over, all of the classes in the parish are starting back and Alan Kelly is no exception. Alan is based on The Hill of Rath, which is great for those who don?t want to travel into Drogheda. Alan would like all of his regular pupils to know that his classes are recommencing on September 3. He is also accepting new pupils so if you would like to learn how to play the keyboard, the accordion or the guitar why not give him a ring at 041 9830678 or 087 2734632. He reliably informs me that he accepts both children and adult pupils, so you know it?s never to late to pursue that burning ambition to become a performer in your own right. Community Games LOCAL boy, Jake Buckley was representing our area in The Community Games this week and did himself and the area proud as he ran a great race competing against kids from all over the country. Jake ran his race like a real pro and even though he had broken his arm three weeks ago, he still took part in The Community Games, Mosney. Congratulations to Jake and roll on next year. Tullyallen Parents Association Meeting THERE will be a meeting of the Parents Association tonight (Wednesday 29) in the school at 8pm. Top of the agenda is Sundays Sports Day. All parents are asked to attend, as there are lots of things to finalise. But if you cannot attend, please contact the school and let them know if you can help out on the day of the sports day or even on the day before (Saturday), as there is always lots of preparation needed before the big day itself. Tullyallen Sports Day (Sunday, September 2) THE Tullyallen Sports Day was unfortunately cancelled in June, as the weather was so bad. But the new date Sunday (September 2) is now upon us, and the organisers are appealing for support from all corners in the local community. This day is as always one of the high points in the school year and this year will no doubt live up to all expectations. Many stalls have been planned this year with Bric-a-brac Stall now stocking up so if you have anything that you may no longer have use for, be assured that there is a home for everything. Just contact the school and they will point you in the right direction. As usual the committee are asking for all parents to give a little of their time to help the day run smoothly. The day is as always, run by the dedicated few who tirelessly give their time but they need your help too. If every parent gave a little of their time, the organisers could also spend a little time with their own families as well. The day will also feature the school races, which are hotly contested by all of the boys and girls in our own school. But there will also be races set aside for the lads and lassies from outside the school as this sports day has a reputation of catering for everyone in attendance, which also includes the usual ?Big Kids? races (for the parents of the ?Little Kids?) and of course the novelty races for those not so sporty. We will have our very own shop on site for all your Ice Cream, minerals and chocolate cravings. This is one not to be missed and it will be a great day out for all of the family. This could be the last big event of the summer. If you have any new ideas or can indeed help with the organising of the day (and the days leading up to the sports day), please contact the school and they will put you in touch with the relevant parents association member. Glen Emmets News THE Glen Emmets were busy this week with an U-9 blitz in Darver and U-8 and U-9 blitz in Tullyallen. P.J. McGrane had his reporter?s hat on and wrote the following report: Glen Emmets travelled to Darver on Wednesday, August 22 to the óg sport Lú mega blitz. Glen Emmets U-9 were hard to beat as the played Dundalk Young Irelanders, Naomh Martin and the Sean O Mahoneys. Playing some superb football for the U-9?s were Kealan O Neill and Dylan Floyd. Glen Emmets U-8 and U-9 hosted a blitz on Saturday, August 25. A tired U-9 hadn?t their usual flair when they played Collon but some good battling from Scott Murphy and Taigdh Sheridan helped them to a hard earned victory. U-8 teams for Collon, St.Kevins and Lannleire showed up. Andy Carolon and Jamie Gilkes couldn?t stop running as the U-8?s played some great football against Collon and St Kevins. Congratulations to all the teams and all the players who were presented with a medal at the end. Carer?s Day Out THE Carer?s had a great day out last week when they traveled to Ballyhaise and had a wonderful day out. The more senior members of our parish were treated to a first class day out by Ann Berill and her team and have nothing but good to say on their day out as they were entertained and fed in 5 star style. Irish Dancing In The Parish Hall PARENTS it is that time of the year again when you are trying to organise a list of items that your child needs for going back to school. Why not add Irish Dancing lessons to that list. Well-known Irish Dancing Teacher Sinead Boylan from Tullyallen has a registration day for her dancing class on Friday, August 31 in the parish hall at 7pm until 8pm. Classes are for all beginners? girls and boys from the age of 4 upwards. Classes are held every Friday in the Parish Hall at 7pm. This class is not only great for learning the Irish Culture but also great exercise for children. Sinead would like to make a point to parents that are interested that there is no costumes, wigs or make up involved in this class. For further information please contact Sinead on 087 2215582. Motor Cross News GREAT news for all local motor cross fans, the 5th round of the southern grass track championship, adults and youths, is coming to Tullyallen, in association with Dundalk and district motor cross club. The 5th round will take place in Tullyallen, so mark your calendars for Sunday, September 16, there will be an number of local riders participating in this event, including Francis Murray, Barry Usher and Vinny Divine. There will also be riders from across the country arriving so it should prove to be a great day out. For any information contact Robert Murray on 0868752167. Glen Emmets GFC Lotto Results TUESDAY August 21. Grand Prize ?2,500. No grand prize winner. Numbers drawn were: 5, 13, 22 & 23. Five winners ?25 are as follows: Luxie, Edel Brady, Martin Walsh, Sean Carolan & Phil Reilly. Next week?s jackpot is ?2,600. You can get your tickets from The Morning Star, Mace Shop, The Sunrise Take-Away or any committee member who you will see going door to door every Tuesday night. Soccer For Girls LAURA Cusack has put the word out for girls who are interested in soccer to play on the Albion Rovers Under 14 team. The girls have been playing for a while and are looking to recruit new members. So any girls born after 1992 can give Laura a call on 087 9746367 for further details. Carers Golf Classic MANY parishioners and indeed folk further a-field will be delighted to hear that the carer?s golf outing will be held again this year. This popular, well-run event is a high point in the calendar for the carers as it is one of their main fund-raisers. This four person team event is growing in popularity every year and if last year is anything to go by, you would want to get your team in sooner rather than later for your spot as places will no doubt be snapped up. All roads will lead to The Townley Hall Golf Course on Saturday, September 1 when the Eddie Murphy Perpetual Trophy will be the coveted prize for the winning team. The carers provide a fine tea for the competitive golfers on their return to the clubhouse, where there will be tales of the ?ten foot birdie putt?, ?the drive to outclass Tiger Woods? or who knows even that elusive ?hole in one?, anything is possible! As always there will be a fine selection of prizes, which will be presented by Mrs. Mary Murphy and the carers will do their usual in organising a raffle with abundance of prizes for those who were not so fortunate with the chipping and putting. So lots of people can go home with a prize of some sort. A team costs ?120, but even if you can?t put a team in you could do your bit by sponsoring a Tee or Green. If you are interested in participating or sponsoring please contact Pauline Kelly at 041 9832481 or Fran Gibney, Townley Hall Golf Club or any member of the committee. Collon Mary Fitzsimons 086 8258143 New Baby CONGRATULATIONS and best wishes to Paddy and Sharon Grimes from Oriel Road on the birth of their new baby son at Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital. This is the first baby for the happy couple and will be christened Paudie. Mattock Rangers Golf Classic MATTOCK will hold their annual Golf Classic in Ardee Golf Club on Friday, September 7. A number of sponsorship options are available for the day. Teams of four, which includes golf and dinner afterwards costs ?300; Sponsor tee box: ?100; Sponsor green ?100; Sponsor of largest drive prize: ?200; Sponsor of nearest to pin prize: ?200. For more information on this great day out contact Declan Madden on 086-8097043. Well Done TO Mattock Rangers who in a nail biting ending beat the Joe?s by two points. This puts Mattock into the quarter finals of the Louth Senior Championships. Mattock Draw THE numbers drawn were 5-8-27-28. No Jackpot winner so it will be ?4,400. The ?25 winners were Adrian Reid Belpatrick, Jen c/o A. Reid, Danny Kane c/o Mathews Bar and T. Murray Corlis Collon. Broomfield & District THE Lotto Bonus Ball was 33. Plus 1 was 37 and Plus 2 was 12. The ?20 winners were Phyllis Govern Slane, Bernie Duff c/o Donegan?s Bar, Jessica Farrell Starinagh, Michael Dillon Grangegeeth and Erin Gillespie Starinagh. The Jackpot stands at ?6,600. Wedding THE bells rang out in St. Teresa?s Church in Sion Mills on Friday, August 17 last as the marriage took place of Eamonn Molloy Belpatrick and Shauna McGinty from Sion Mills Co. Tyrone. Afterwards the reception was held in the Clan Ree Hotel in Letterkenny. The bestman was Francis Murray and the groomsmen were Stephen Molloy, Thomas Delaney and Stephen Weldon. The bridesmaids were Catriona McGinty, Angela McGinty, Wendy Wogan and Maraid McGinty. The flower girl was Katie Merricks and the Pageboy was Cain McGinty. It was a brilliant day enjoyed by all especially the large numbers who travelled up to be with the happy couple on their special day. Eamonn is the eldest son of Agnes and the late Eddie Molloy and Shauna is a daughter of Dominic and Patricia McGinty. The happy couple are now on honeymoon in Mauritius. We wish them long life and happiness in their new life together. 
