sport football
{  
    February 02 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/sport/other-sports/tipps-top-27446521.html }
Finance Minister Charlie McCreevy was not too kind to the Irish cider industry in his December budget. Yet, notwithstanding the unexpectedly large tax imposition placed on the alcoholic product of the Clonmel-based Bulmers Ltd, the Cidona awards which have been sponsored by Bul    By Gerry Slevin   Finance Minister Charlie McCreevy was not too kind to the Irish cider industry in his December budget. Yet, notwithstanding the unexpectedly large tax imposition placed on the alcoholic product of the Clonmel-based Bulmers Ltd, the Cidona awards which have been sponsored by Bulmers for the past thirty seven years continue to thrive under that sponsorship and will continue in the future. That good news was conveyed to a packed function room in the Clonmel Arms Hotel on Saturday night when Tipperary men and women who have hit the sporting headlines in 2001 received their awards from Brendan McGuinness, Managing Director, Bulmers Ltd. Another exciting occasion it was with stars in sixteen disciplines honoured in the Tipperary United Sports Panel awards which has been promoting the awards since 1959-60, Bulmers coming on board in 1965. In addition to the separate awards, the coveted Knocknagow award to a sports star of the past was made, this year to one of the all-time greats of Tipperary football, Pakie Brennan from Ardfinnan, the only Tipperary player selected on the Munster ‘team of the millennium’. The array of award winners ran from county, through provincial, national and international performers and included two teenage boys who can proudly claim the honour of being world champions. Cousins Peter Bayly and William Atkinson of the Lough Derg Yacht Club in Dromineer deservedly took that title in Howth last summer in sailing. For them Saturday night was the first of two great occasions, all within a week. The following Wednesday would see them join the greats in Irish sports stars for the coveted Texaco awards presentation night in Dublin. Coincidentally, another of Saturday night’s victors, hurler Thomas Dunne has also been honoured by the Texaco awards committee. He was unable to attend in Clonmel for the very good reason that his impeccable hurling skills were being displayed in far off Buenos Aires that very night and whether or not be will make it to the Texaco celebrations will depend on the plane arriving back from Argentina on time on Wednesday. Thomas’ father Tony accepted his award on Saturday night. Youngest award recipient was 12 year old Gavin Pyke, a cyclist with a tremendous future, from Clonmel,  OTHER WINNERS The other individual award winners were Mandy Crowe from Bansha (athletics), Kevin Babington from Carrick on Suir (show jumping), Willie Morrissey from Fethard (gaelic football), Donie Keating, Cahir (motor sport), Tom Fennessy, Clonmel Rowing club (sports executive), Will Carey, Nenagh (swimming) and Clodagh McMorrow, Tipperary (tennis). Along with the Lough Derg yachtsmen, the rowing category was filled by two winners, Andy Ryan and Paul Nugent from Clonmel R.C. Nor were teams forgotten with the all-conquering Tipperary senior camogie team slotting into the camogie category, Scoil Ruain from Killenaule into the basketball enclosure, Thurles golf club, Rockwell college schools rugby team, and Peake Villa soccer club all suitably and deservedly honoured for their achievements. Each award winner was introduced by Eamonn Wynne of the United Sports Panel and moved up through the large gathering under a spotlight and to the accompaniment of a musical fanfare. The occasion was presided over by Michael Guinan, chairman of the United Sports panel and among the guests was the Mayor of Clonmel, Alderman Sean Nyhan. There was special welcome for a man who was one of the founders of the United Sports Panel and its first secretary, Sean Lyons. Sean was described by the Mayor as having left his hospital bed to attend. Recipients of special mementos to mark twenty five years as members of the United Sports Panel were two committee members, Jimmy Cooney (present secretary) and John O’Loughlin.  BEHIND-THE-SCENES PEOPLE Mr Guinan described Tipperary sporting success as going from strength to strength each year. Standards continued to be maintained and in paying tribute to the victors, he was also very conscious of all the behind-the-scenes activities that went on and all those who played such important roles in bringing to the forefront so many great sports people. Cognisant also of this being an election year, the chairman said it was only right to remind the government that there were a lot of sports activities out there that needed funding and now was the time for sports people to be putting the pressure on. “We will hear a lot of promises and let’s hope that some of them will come the sports way’, said Mr Guinan. The chairman also referred to what he described as a huge sporting lift earlier that day with Munster’s marvellous rugby win over Stade Francais, a reference that was greeted most enthusiastically by the large gathering present. Mayor Nynan joined in congratulating all the award winners and in a tribute to the United Sports Panel, referred to the way in which it honoured so many and diverse sporting achievements. This year the award winners ranged from sailing in Lough Derg to rowing in Canada, from athletics in Bansha to soccer in Thurles, from car rallying in Africa to cycling in Clonmel and elsewhere and much much more. He wished the event and the award winners the very best in their future endeavours, expressing his thanks and that of the people of Clonmel to Bulmers, under the directorship of Brendan McGuinness, for their continued sponsorhip of the Cidona awards.  TRUE FRIENDS As mayor of Clonmel and on this his fourth occasion, he could vouch for the fact that Bulmers and Brendan McGuinness were true friends of their town. “I wish to God, Charlie McCreevy would have researched this and their great importance to Clonmel, but obviously he didn’t”, said the Mayor. Brendan McGuinness also formally congratulated the award winners. From a company point of view, they certainly looked forward to their involvement each year. Sport and its promotion was so vital in Tipperary, he said. All too frequently they read about the social problems of today and in many cases this was attributed to the fact that the young had ‘nothing to do’. Whatever the politicians might say, particularly at election time about the facilities that were being made available for sports people, the reality was that if it were not for the great voluntary input of sporting organisations and administrators like the United Sports Panel there would really be very little to attract the young into sport. Just as Bulmers had been so glad to be associated with the awards for so long, he was delighted to announce that the company’s involvement would continue. 
