sport football
{ Sinead Kissane 
    January 02 2015 09:57 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/rugby/other-rugby/why-you-should-add-even-one-womens-game-to-new-years-resolution-list-30878857.html }
Pat Kenny asked me an odd question on his radio programme last summer. Well, it seemed odd to me. In a discussion about sexism and sport, Kenny wondered whether I would prefer watching a good-looking male TV sports presenter rather than one who wasn't good-looking.  I was a bit taken aback before informing him that it makes no difference to me what a sports presenter looks like. Kenny asked a similar question of a male journalist to see if his preference would be to watch a good-looking female sports presenter? It was at this point that I quickly checked the calendar to make sure that we were still in the year 2014. It wasn't exactly a loaded question. But my reaction and the male journalist's were quite different. In 2014 we saw some varying reactions in general to women and sport. But also the more successful our sportswomen have become, the more our views are being challenged in different ways. I have zero interest in raking over the gender-bitching that went on over 'that' Sunday Independent article on women's rugby last summer. What I am interested in was the comment Irish captain Fiona Coghlan made after Ireland were knocked out of the Women's Rugby World Cup. She said she couldn't believe the lack of criticism over Ireland's semi-final defeat to England. "Our performance was so poor, we deserved to be criticised," Coghlan said. She's right. Were we almost afraid to say anything critical about Ireland after they lost in case some mistook it as a whiff of sexism? It's ok to roar and shout about the need to treat women the same as men in sport. But obviously that should extend to proper constructive criticism when they under-perform. Coghlan said the women's team need praise and criticism too for the public to really buy into their sport. Conundrum We are at a stage in the development of women's sport in this country where we need to promote it and also judge it on merit. But that's where the conundrum lies for some. There was one opinion last summer which ran along the lines that "women's sports most basic problem when it comes to media coverage is that you can't force people to care." So, what do we do then? Should we completely ignore some women's sports solely on the basis of attendance figures? Are we now so sucked into a 'fitter, faster, stronger' way of thinking that any sport which fails on popularity criteria should be discarded to the Sport In Brief section of our newspapers? Let's not completely confuse some people's "not caring" with people not being aware that women's team sports in this country is still at a developmental stage. Increased media coverage should lead to an increase in interest which should percolate into an increase in standards. Speaking this week, Cork's All-Ireland winning ladies' football manager Eamonn Ryan said more women need to support women's sport. "If more women supported women's sport, it would boost the image of the game and act as an incentive for the players. The only day they play in front of a crowd is the All-Ireland final. The other days there would be no-one there. It's very sad," said Ryan. Women's sport has to wear its credentials on its sleeves. It doesn't matter who you are. Katie Taylor wasn't at all pleased over what she believes is a lack of support from RTE. But thankfully TG4 broadcast live coverage of Taylor's World Championship semi-final and final in November. TG4 said viewing figures were "naturally severely hampered" because of the times of the fights, but over 200,000 tuned into their coverage over the course of the weekend. Not bad, but not great either for Ireland's "most admired sports star" last year. I started this column not necessarily wanting to finish it with an idea for a possible New Year's resolution. But the most annoying aspect of some of the reaction to women's sports last year was how so few people actually go to games. It was great that the Irish women's rugby team got to play at the Aviva Stadium last year. But it felt like a deserted town with hardly anyone sticking around to actually watch them play. So for those who don't usually support women's sport, why not try going to even one game near you in 2015. Even if it's part of a double header like Kerry GAA are looking at doing with a men's and women's football league game this Spring. Too many people are quick to judge women's sport when they haven't even bothered watching a game. To borrow a tagline from this newspaper, before you make up your mind, open it.   Race to fill the Ireland No 13 jersey for Six Nations is on How good was Robbie Henshaw against Munster? Some of the lines he took were nothing short of delicious. And his ability to break tackles with his physicality (considering he is still only 22) was just thrilling to watch. It had all the quality of a performance to nail down his name for the 13 jersey for Ireland's Six Nations opener against Italy five weeks today in Rome. But you can bet he'll keep a close eye on Leinster v Ulster at the RDS today. Luke Fitzgerald and Darren Cave will be in the outside centre slots with Henshaw's other direct competition for the 13 jersey Jared Payne still sidelined with a foot injury. It was kind of scary listening to Fitzgerald talk earlier this week about how he feared his playing days were over. He was his typical honest self in describing his personal frustration during his injury and how Leinster stood by him. We all know how he's been desperately unlucky these past few years. In 2011, I remember seeing him leave the Ireland team base in Killiney, head down, after being dropped for the England game. A few months later, in an interview before the Ireland squad for the 2011 Rugby World Cup was named, he was genuinely worried over whether he would make the Ireland squad. As it turned out, he was right to be worried. It is amazing that he's never played at a World Cup. It's easy to get overly excited that this could be his year. But you just hope that he can stay fit and healthy. And maybe even make an Ireland 13 jersey lucky for him.   Roche gets ready to roll it with world's best In nine days time Stephanie Roche will rock up the red carpet at the FIFA Ballon d'Or gala in Zurich. The voting lines will still be open so Roche, Robin van Persie or James Rodriguez won't know who will succeed Zlatan Ibrahimovic and scoop the Puskas award for goal of the year. She will also be rubbing shoulders with the likes of Cristiano Ronaldo, Lionel Messi and Manuel Neuer who are all nominated for the player of the year award, the Ballon d'Or. Ronaldo and Messi will, no doubt, gasp and applaud Roche's superb technique when the goal is shown on the big screen. Neuer, meanwhile, will probably shiver at the thought of a supreme goal like that going past him. It's been a whirlwind time for Roche. I interviewed her yesterday in Dublin and she was imagining what it would be like to return home with the award. If she wins, she will become the first woman to do so. She's been completely taken aback by the support she's received, but she deserves it. What a way to start 2015. Irish Independent 
