sport football
{  
    July 18 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/sport/other-sports/your-weekly-sporting-club-notes-27766642.html }
ODwyersIntermediate Footballers had a great 1-12 to 0-07 win over Ballymun Kickams in the Joy Cup. Junior A where narrowly defeated by St. Finains Swords, while Junior B received a walkover from Colmcilles.Junior B footballers are in the 2nd round of the championship against Inisfails on Sunday 23rd at 3pm in Bremore Park.  Come along and cheer the lads along.Training O’Dwyers Intermediate Footballers had a great 1-12 to 0-07 win over Ballymun Kickams in the Joy Cup. Junior A where narrowly defeated by St. Finains Swords, while Junior B received a walkover from Colmcilles. Junior B footballers are in the 2nd round of the championship against Inisfails on Sunday 23rd at 3pm in Bremore Park. Come along and cheer the lads along. Training for the Intermediate Footballers on Tuesday and Thursday. Meet in clubhouse at 7.15pm. Junior Football Training also on Tuesday and Thursday. Meet in clubhouse at 7.30pm. Hurling training on Monday and Wednesday nights, meet at 7.30pm. Ladies football training on Monday night in the club at 7.30pm. Camogie training on Thursday night on Bell's field at 7.30pm. Football Camp for 7-13 year olds on from 17th to 21st July. VHI Hurling Camp for 7-13 year olds on from 24th to 28th July. Registrations take place in Saturday mornings at Junior Skills camp, or contact Fiona Reynolds on 087-6336852 or Mary Kenny on 01-8412574 to reserve your place. The club would like to offer its deepest sympathy to the Bell, O'Carroll and Nally family on their recent bereavements. Ballyboughal Adult training continues every Tuesday and Thursday.All players should attend. Nursery, U9 & u12 coaching is now up and running,all children welcome. The club are always looking for new mentors or helpers for our juvenile section.If interested please contact Liam at 0872901846.Thanks to everyone who helped out at our Summer camp which was a huge success.Special thanks to Robbie Fennell and all his coaches.Thanks also to Brian Cullen and Philip Brennan. Don,t forget to buy your Lotto.Only fully paid up members qualify for Dublin match tickets.Tickets for Dublin matches MUST be ordered early and PAID for upon collection No winner of last weeks Lotto Fingallians Minor footballers defeated St Marys in cup and Intermed hurlers drew with Sylvesters in league. Intermed and Junior 1 footballers lost in cup games. U11 and U12 hurlers both had two wins in Camant games. Senior footballers play St Brigids B in Lusk on Saturday at 7pm in Championship Relegation tie. Support welcome for this important game. Minor hurlers take on Na Fianna on Wed and Ballyboden on Sun. U11 and U12 hurlers are both playing in Camant fixtures in Mobhi Rd on Wed. On Friday night we host an Intermed Football Championship Quarter Final clash between Fingal Ravens and St Pats P. at 7.30pm. Volunteers are required to assist in stewarding. Lawless Park was again a hive of activity all last week. This time the VHI Cul Hurling Camp attracted 90 boys and girls aged 6-13 for a fabulous week which was blessed with brilliant weather and saw huge strides in skill development as well as great fun for all participants. Great credit is due to Emer Bambrick, Gerry Green and the dedicated team of coaches. One winner of club Lotto picked up 1,204 euro. Numbers drawn were 3,5,8,16 and 27. This week’s jackpot is 1,244 euro. Bingo Festival continues on Tuesdaywith many extra prizes. Irish Traditional Music night on Tuesday at 10 pm in bar On Saturday night DJ Shay will play all the 60s, 70s, and 80s hits and pose the questions in a light hearted quiz.. On Sunday night our dancers will swing to the music of "Fascinating Rhythm". Congratulations to the Dublin senior footballers and hurlers on two great wins at the weekend. The ticket rush for the All Ireland football Quarter final is likely to be even greater so watch the notice boards for application details. Golf Society outing to Donabate GC on Thursday. Tee time 2-3pm. Innisfails Innisfails Summer Leagues start at 6pm this Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. Innisfails Family Fun Day takes place on Sunday 23rd, 2pm-6pm all welcome. Please support club lotto, jackpot approx. 14,000 Euro. New Clubshop now open. 2006 club Membership fees are now overdue. Well done to pillar and the Dublin squad on winning Leinster Final. Congrats to Catherine and Damien Rice on the birth of their first baby, a boy named Eoin, the Rice family recently moved to Australia. New website, www.innisfails.ie, email info@innisfails.ie Naomh Mearnog July winners in the Lotto Syndicate are, Liam Burns, Daire Eagney, Jim Carroll, and Ned Byrne. Well done to Shane and the Dubs on retaining the Leinster title.Tickets for the next match must be ordered from Dan Linehan immediately. Good wins by Inter Camogie, Inter football, Junior Ladies football, Junior and Senior Hurling teams. Senior Football championship versus Na Fianna on Thursday night in Parnell park at 6.30pm. A busy weekend for our Ladies football teams. On Friday night in Parnell park at 6.30 we play Clontarf in the Intermediate Championship final and on Saturday at home at 4pm we play Wanderers in the Junior final. On Sunday our Junior footballers play the next round of the Championship. Come along and support all our teams. Minor Hurlin training recommences tonight at 6pm. Summer Camp continues this week. This weeks Club Lotto numbers, 3, 11, 13 and 18. No winner. 50 euro winners, B Corcoran, M Aherne and M Kielty. St Colmcilles It was with great sadness that the Club learned of the death of An Runai Liam Maxwell last week, Liam was actively involved in the club for over 20 years working with the juveniles in the early years and was then a key member of the team responsible for the development of the clubhouse in Balheary. For the past eight years he has been the Secretary of the Club and he will be a great loss to the club. The Committee and Members of St Colmcilles GFC offer their condolences to Liam's family at this difficult time. Ar dheis Dé go raibh a hAnam dilís. As a mark of respect all club activities where cancelled last week. They will resume this evening (Tues) with adult football training. Congratulations to the Dublin Senior Football team on retaining the Leinster Football Championship last weekend. Garristown No winner of Lotto this week. Numbers drawn were 11,13,15,33. ?20 winners were Jim Conaty, Pat King, D Fitzpatrick and Sellers prize goes to Eugenia. Next week's jackpot ?1,480 Good Luck to our Ladies Team who play in the final of the Championship this Wednesday Evening (8pm) in O’Toole Park against Croi Ro Naofa. Your support would be greatly appreciated. Adult Training continues Tuesday and Thursday evenings. Training for all juveniles continues on Tuesday evenings on the pitch at 6pm. Thanks to John Battersby and his crew who organized a great day out for the kids at the Leinster Final on Sunday. VHI Cul Summer Camp begins 31st July. Skerries Harps Well done to Bryan Cullen in Captaining the Dubs to another Leinster Final. It was a very proud moment to see a Skerries Harps player lifting the trophy. Well done also Donnacha Reilly who was part of the squad. The Intermediate team had a good win over Fingallians in the Cup 2-20 to 1-08. Senior Camogie were well beaten by Good Counsel. Junior Camogie were also well beaten in the match against Erin's Isle. Hard luck to Neasa and Sorcha Forde and Laura Boylan who lost to Cork in the All-Ireland U16A Camogie Semi-Final. Hard luck also to Lyndsey Davey and the Dublin Senior Ladies Football team who were beaten in the Leinster Semi-Final. Best wishes to Rebecca Davey and the Dublin U14 Girls footballers who play the All-Ireland Semi-Final against Galway next weekend. Well done to Audrey Murtagh the Club G.P.O. for organising a brilliant fun day at the Junior Academy on Saturday. Club tracksuits and rain jackets will be distributed in the next few weeks. Details of dates and times will be in Parish Bulletin and Club Notes next week. Golf Classic will be held on Friday 4th Aug details from Frank Rogan 086 2432873 or Cait O Donoghue 087 2730434. Zingo results for w/e 15th July 6,5,1,7,4,2,3 - No Winner - Jackpot stands at 4,550 euro. Well doen to Helen Walsh who won the first prize in the 5 week draw. St Sylvesters Championship week. The Lady fooballers also need your support. On Friday they are in action against Clontarf at 6:45 in Parnell Park in the Intermediate final and not to be out done our juniors play their final in Broomfield at 4:00 on Saturday. Intermediate hurlers had a thrilling draw with Fingallains in their league game .It was good to see an increase in number of supporters. Our Minors footballers had a good win against near neighbours. Congratulations to the Dubs on winning the Leinster title for the second year. Paid up members, please watch our website and notice board for details for tickets for the quarter final on weekending 12th/13th August. If your going on holidays but will be back for the game, please enure that you make arrangements to have your name on the list. Nicole Owens played her part in the Dubs under 14 win against Tyrone . Niamh McEvoy played a stormer in the thrilling minor game with Cork but the Dubs lost after extra time. whilst Sinead Aherne scored four points for the Dubs but was not enough to defeat Meath in the Leinster Championship. WE wish Vivienne Lee a speedy recovery from injury. Fingal Ravens Junior team play Clontarf to-night at 7:45 in Rolestown.Intermediate Championship:Fingal Ravens V St.Pats Palmerstown on Fri. 21st. in Fingallians at 7:30. Please lets have lots of support for the lad in this important game.Good luck and best wishes to the team and managment in the game.Ladies team play O'Dwyres on Wed.at 7:30 in Rolestown.Continued success to the U16s. in the Fingal Tournament. Condolences to the Maxwell family on their recent bereavment. Lotto,no winner. 20 euro to Nicky O'Callaghan,Paddy Reilly and Ray Lamb and sellers prize to Joey Fay.Jackpot now 2384 euro. We encourage everyone to support the lotto and juvenile players parents can get lotto envelopes in the clubhouse. Golf classic on Sat 19th Aug.Book your team now. St. Maur’s Hurling Results – League/Championship, St. Maurs 4-19, St. Pats (Palmerstown) 4-5. Maurs got off to a great start and lead by 2-5 to 0-1 at the end of the first quarter. He half-time score was Maurs 2-12, St. Pats 2-3. Best for Maurs were Craig Harford in goal, Carl Casey in defence, JM Sheridan and John Gleeson in attach. Man-of-the-match was mid-fielder and captain, Will Molloy. Club lottery numbers were 12-14-16-20, no winner, 3 match 3 receive 70 Euro each. Next week’s jackpot is worth 2,200 Euro. Well done to the Rush Horticultural Society who held their 59th annual show in St. Maurs on Saturday. Many congratulations to Ollie Clark, who won the “All Ireland” sweet pea championship. Many congratulations and well done to the Dublin footballers on winning the Leinster Football Championship. Hurling Summer Camp continues this week. Football Camp is on 31st to 4th August. Ages 6 to 12, 50 Euro per player per camp. Phone Martin Wall on 8438480. Rugby Rugby fixtures RBS Six Nations: 2007 Wales v Ireland; Sunday 4th Feb K/O 15:00 Ireland v France; Sunday 11th Feb K/O 15:00 Croke Park Ireland v England; Saturday 24th Feb K/O 17:30 Croke Park Scotland v Ireland; Saturday 10th Mar K/O 1:30 Italy v Ireland; Saturday 17th Mar K/O 1:30. Soccer Eircom fixtures Weds 19 July Longford Town v St. Patrick's Athletic, Flancare Park, 7.45 pm Ref: Anthony Buttimer Fri. 21 July Bohemians v Dublin City, Dalymount Park, 7.45 pm Ref: Derek Tomney Drogheda United v Derry City, United Park, 7.45 pm Ref: Ian Stokes Shelbourne v U.C.D., Tolka Park, 8.00 pm Ref: Alan Kelly Sat. 22 July Longford Town v Waterford United, Flancare Park, 7.30 pm Ref: Dave McKeon Sligo Rovers v Cork City, The Showgrounds, 7.45 pm Ref: Paul Tuite (pls note date change) Sun. 23 July Bray Wanderers v St. Patrick’s Athletic, Carlisle Grounds, 3.15 pm Ref: Anthony Buttimer First Division Fri. 21 July Limerick v Kildare County, Hogan Park, 7.45 pm Ref: Conor Fitzgerald Monaghan United v Galway United, Century Homes Park, 8.00 pm Ref: Stephen Toner Shamrock Rovers v Dundalk, Tolka Park, 8.00 pm Ref: Aiden O’Regan Sat. 22 July Finn Harps v Athlone Town, Finn Park, 7.45 pm Ref: Neil Doyle 
