sport football
{  
    August 19 2009 08:22 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/temp/grass-roots-27707111.html }
SARSFIELDS Sunday evening last was filled with disappoinment as the Seniors were crushed by Starlights on a 2-12 to 0-5 scoreline in their must-win championship encounter in Wexford Park. It means that they will be taking part in the ‘B’ competition and avoiding relegation will now be the priority. The Juniors conceded a walkover to Tara Rocks on Friday last in a game which was of no consequence to either side. The Under-21s went down to home side Kilmore in the District semi-final on Monday week last. The Minors followed up a heavy 5-11 to 1-1 loss to St. James’ with a 4-12 to 3-7 win over Rathgarogue-Cushinstown on Thursday last and now await the draw for the Division 3 championship semi-finals. A 1-11 to 0-10 home loss to Starlights meant that the Juveniles just missed out on a county semi-final place. The Under-14s continued their championship campaign on a high note recently with a 9-11 to 2-8 win over Castletown, but unfortunately can’t make the knockout stages regardless of the outcome of their last game at home to Our Lady’s Island/St. Fintan’s on Thursday at 7.30 p.m. Hard luck to the Under-10s who were edged out by St. Martin’s in the District Roinn 1 semi-final on a 2-6 to 1-6 scoreline. However, we wish them well this evening when they take on Shelmaliers in the Shield final in Rathangan. Check out www.sarsfields.leinstergaa.com for the latest club news. ST. ANNE’S Congratulations to the Senior footballers who beat Duffry Rovers on a scoreline of 1-12 to 0-7 in a dominant display to qualify for the quarter-finals of the county championship. The Senior hurlers are in action on Saturday at 6.30 p.m. in Wexford Park where they play Duffry Rovers in their final group game of the championship. They require a win or draw in order to top their group and qualify for the quarter-finals of the championship. BANNOW-BALLYMITTY Bingo this week is €525. Thanks to everyone who supported the field day on Sunday week last. Thanks to anyone who sponsored, donated, made tea, refereed matches, barbequed, had stalls, did M.C., and had anything to do with the field dayu. Raffle winners: 1, Mick Kearns; 2, Shauna Culleton; 3, Owen Dempsey; 4, Mick Eustace; 5, Patti Moran. The Millar children won the 125 raffle, James McCormack won the milk the goat, Kevin Doyle won the penatly shoot-out, and Adam Diskin won the long puck. The money jar was won by Stephen O’Leary and Denise Castle. The Under-10 competion was won by Gusserane, and the Under-8 went to Kilmore. Ticket 36 has not been claimed for the lamb yet. You can contact any member of the club if you have it. On Friday evening the Junior footballers played Gusserane in Fethard. We lost this match by a mere two points. Hard luck to the players and mentors. On Sunday last we played Adamstown in New Ross in the Senior football. This was a very tough match. We lost by one point but are still through to the next round. Well done players, Pip, Stevie and Jason. This Saturday evening sees the Junior hurlers in action. Please see the sports section for venue and time. CLONARD Our training still continues for Under-8s every Tuesday (7-8), Under-10s every Wednesday and Friday (7-8), Under-12s and -14s every Tuesday and Thursday (7-8.30) and Sunday (11-12.30). Well done to our Under-8s who travelled to O.L.I. on Monday last to play in a hurling blitz. This week we went to Kilmore and on Monday next we have our final session in the Vols pitch. Congratulations to our Under-10 team for winning their football semi-final in the Kent Cup on Wednesday last against the Vols. Well done boys on a great display of teamwork, and the very best of luck in the final. Our Under-12 team drew against Oylegate in a championship football match, and our Under-14 team went down to a very strong Askamore team. The Under-14 football team is through to a semi-final and this team missed this opportunity in hurling by a very narrow margin. Well done boys and the best of luck in the semi-final - details later. From Sunday next we are starting an Under-13 and Under-15 hurling league within the club. Please come along and join in from 11-12.30. The weather was on our side last week for our annual summer camp, with over 60 children having great fun and learning new skills in both hurling and football. We would also like to thank ‘Gizzy’ Lyng and George O’Connor who attended the camp on Wednesday to coach the children hurling. We would also like to thank all our helpers for setting up and dismantling the camp each day, and also putting their coaching skill to use. Our Under-16s will play in the county semi-final this coming Saturday in Ferns at 12.30 p.m. against Bunclody. We would like everyone, Mums and Dads, to come along and support the boys. Our Minors had a two-point win over the Shamrocks last week. Their next game is against OLI/St. Fintan’s. Both our adult teams went out of the championship in hurling and football last week. On a final note, congratulations to Paul Mooney and Lisa Fitzpatrick who tied the knot on Friday of last week. May they have many many years of happiness. The Under-14 girls played away to Crossabeg on Monday last and gave the performance of the season. Winning this game meant securing a place in the semi-final, and at half-time the girls were two goals up. They fought hard to the end as the scores were drawing level. However, the Crossabeg girls secured a goal in the last few minutes to take the game by 5-6 to 3-9. Well done girls on a brilliant performance. The ladies were also busy. On Tuesday last they played a championship match against the Starlights at home. From the start Clonard were the better team and they played all the right moves and passes with a great display of teamwork. The full-time score was Clonard 4-11, Starlights 2-7. On Sunday the ladies played a league match against Crossabeg at home. Both teams fought hard but Crossabeg came out on top. The Under-12 semi-final is against Horeswood in Horeswood on Saturday, August 29. All girls must attend training in order to prepare for this important game. Please log on to www.clonardladiesgfc.ie for more information about training times etc. SHELMALIERS The Senior footballers had a convincing win over Fethard in New Ross on Saturday evening to progress to the next round of the Co. championship (1-18 to 3-6). The Minor footballers had an easy win over Munnerane Gaels on Thursday evening in Hollymount. Best were Brian Tobin, Benny Barron, Feargal Hynes and Stephen Corrigan. In Juvenile hurling, we played our last match of the championship. Playing against the wind, we struggled to find our rhythm and the fact that Fethard had found the net three times in the first-half meant that we were always on the back foot. Unfortunately, we were never able to whittle down the Fethard lead, although we broke even with them over the course of the second-half. Strongest were Páraic O’Leary, Dean Corrigan (capt.), Glen Murphy and Conor Tobin. As in all our other games, Seán Byrne was brave, hard-working and skilful. Adam Whitmore put in a fine performance. The management of the team would like to thank all the lads for their year’s work. Team: A. Whitmore; E. O’Leary, P. O’Leary, S. Dwyer; N. Tobin, G. Murphy, E. Fitzgerald; C. Tobin, D. Corrigan; J. Murphy, C. McCabe, S. Byrne; S. Donohoe, S. Birney, S. Murphy. Subs. - N. Rossiter, A. Ryan. Our Under-12 hurlers made the trip to Killurin on Wednesday last to play Glynn-Barntown. The first-half was a very even affair, with Nathan Murphy hitting the back of the net twice for our lads. Points from Shane Neville, Jody Donohoe and Liam Rockett left the Shels only one point down at half-time (0-10 to 2-3). Our opponents started the second-half strongly and scored five points without reply. A couple of frees from Conor Hearne, and a point by Dan Campbell, brought the Shels back into the game with 15 minutes remaining. Glynn then scored a goal and two points without reply before Gareth Jones scored a lovely goal for the Shels in the last minute. The final score in favour of Glynn was 3-13 to 3-7. Best for the Shels were Paul McCleane, Peter Doyle, Aaron O’Neill and Stephen Rossiter. There was no winner of this week’s lotto. Numbers drawn were 1, 10, 19, 23 and bonus 38. Five match three winners were John Tennent, Doval Parkse, Phil Brown, Ann Murphy and May Byrne. Each receive €42. Next week’s jackpot will be €20,000. ST. JOHN’S VOLUNTEERS Our Intermediate footballers put in a very brave display in the Park last weekend but bowed of the championship proper to a skilful Kilmore side. Having trailed by four points at half-time, a Daryl Margolin goal midway through the second-half levelled affairs, but the seasiders managed to push on, winning by 1-16 to 2-9. The second team fared better in their final outing, beating Buffers Alley by 0-16 to 0-5. The hurlers take on the Shamrocks this Friday in Blackwater, and need to win to keep their summer alive. All support would be greatly appreciated. Training for adult footballers is every Monday and Thursday at 7 p.m., while the hurlers train every Tuesday at 7 p.m. Under-age training continues as follows: on Monday from 6-7 p.m. there is Under-14 boys’ football; Tuesday, 6-7 p.m., there is Under-10 hurling; Wednesday sees Under-14 hurling and Under-12 football from 6-7 p.m; Under-10 football is every Thursday from 6-7 p.m.; Friday hosts Under-8 hurling and Under-12 hurling from 6-7 p.m. Under-14 and Under-16 girls’ football train jointly twice a week, on Wednesday from 7-8 p.m. and every Saturday from 10.30 a.m. to 12 noon. This week’s winning lotto numbers were 15, 20, 23 and 26. There was no winner, but Paula Malone-Carty did match three numbers for €30. The club warmly welcomes newcomers, and interested parents or players should feel free to come along or contact any committee member. Hoodies, shorts, socks and rain jackets are available; please feel free to contact Jim (087-7719864). For further information about this, the club and our under-age schedules, please visit www.volunteersgaa.com. ST. MARY’S (ROSSLARE) There was no lotto winner for August 10. The numbers were 1, 10, 19, 23 and bonus 38. We had no match three winner. Next week’s jackpot is €20,000. Under-12 football championship: Volunteers 5-4, St. Mary’s 1-1. Minor football championship: St. Mary’s 3-10, Oylegate 2-12. Intermediate hurling championship: Fethard 1-17, St. Mary’s 1-12. Under-14 hurling championship: Horeswood 7-7, St. Mary’s 2-2. Under-10 football league semi-final: St. Mary’s 3-5, Kilmore 3-1. Intermediate football championship: HWH-Bunclody 2-10, St. Mary’s 1-11. Fixtures - Minor hurling championship v. Cuchulainns, Wednesday, 7.30 p.m. in Tagoat Under-14 football championship v. Cushinstown, Thursday, 7.30 p.m. in Cushinstown. Junior football District final v. St. Fintan’s, Thursday, 7 p.m. in Tagoat. Under-12 hurling Go Games v. Adamstown, Friday, 7 p.m. in Adamstown. Intermediate hurling championship v. HWH-Bunclody, Sunday, 3.30 p.m. in Oylegate. Under-14 hurling Co. quarter-final v. Askamore, Monday, 7.15 p.m. in Askamore. Under-12 football championship v. Horeswood, Tuesday, 7.30 p.m. in Horeswood. Our Intermediate footballers were beaten on Sunday last in the last group game of the championship by HWH-Bunclody on a scoreline of 2-10 to 1-11. We have, however, still qualified for the county quarter-final. Our Junior footballers beat Crossabeg on Saturday last on a scoreline of 2-11 to 2-08 in the District semi-final and have now set up a mouth-watering final with our neighbours, St. Fintan’s, on this Thursday evening in Tagoat. CROSSABEG-BALLYMURN There was no winner of last week’s lotto jackpot and no match three winner. The numbers drawn were 10, 11, 12 and 24. This week’s jackpot is €3,000. The Junior hurlers play Adamstown in the championship on Sunday. The Junior ‘B’ footballers lost to Rosslare in the District semi-final on Saturday last, having beaten Kilmore earlier in the week. The Minor hurlers are away to Bunclody this Wednesday. The Under-16 footballers lost to St. Martin’s, however they have qualified for the county semi-final, where they will play the Martin’s again, on Monday next at 7 p.m. in Ballymurn. The Under-14 footballers beat Craanford and are through to the county semi-final. They play Glynn away on Thursday in their final league match. The Under-14 hurlers drew with Glynn and are also into the semi-final where they will play the Shamrocks. The Under-12 footballers beat St. James’ on Tuesday and play Gusserane at home on Tuesday next. The Under-10 hurlers lost to the Shels. The Under-8s and Under-10s train in the pitch on Tuesdays from 6.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. The club shop is open at the rear of the dressing-rooms on Tuesdays from 6.15 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. ST. MARTIN’S Congratulations to our Under-12 camogie girls on winning the Premier division for the first time ever, beating Oulart-The Ballagh in the final. The Senior camogie team play Oulart-The Ballagh on Friday in Piercestown at 7 p.m. All support welcome Under-14 football: the boys play the county semi-final on Thursday next at 6.30 p.m. in Hollymount against Starlights. All support welcome. Our Senior footballers were beaten on Sunday evening last by Clongeen (3-16 to 0-8) - a very disappointing result All those who have contributed to our Hurling Wall are asked to check the list of names on display at the clubhouse door, to make sure that their names are correct as engraving will be starting soon. The club shop will be open on Wednesday from 6.45 p.m. to 7.45 p.m. and again on Sunday from 10.45 a.m. to 11.45 a.m. Check out our new kit bags and also we have winter club jackets in stock for the boys and girls going back to school. The last game in the round robin section of the Senior hurling championship takes place on Sunday in Wexford Park at 6.30 p.m. against the Rapparees. All support appreciated. GLYNN-BARNTOWN In our best football display of the year, our Intermediates recorded a big win over St. Mary’s to qualify for the quarter-finals. In a game where we had to exceed Gorey’s winning total by three points, our lads were very calm and disciplined. At half-time we were seven up but word came through Gorey were behind so it was out of our hands. However, late in the second-half while still holding a seven-point lead, word filtered through that Gorey had pulled out a four-point win. Rather than panic and try to hold on, our lads attacked with everything they had and Philip Walsh sealed our progression with his second major of the game. Congratulations to all concerned. The Senior hurlers look to qualify for the quarter-finals for the first time in a couple of years on Sunday next in Wexford Park. Many combinations of results can get them through but they are assured progress if they win so that will be the focus. Our Under-21 footballers started their effort to retain their Premier championship with a good home win against Bunclody. While that game was being played, our Under-14 camogie team was also in action against Bunclody where they also managed to get the win. Our Minor footballers sealed their progress to the county semi-finals with a home win over St. Martin’s. The family field day was a big success and the G.A.A. and camogie club would like to thank everyone who contributed in any way. The camogie club was trying to raise funds to convert the old gym room into two new changing rooms, and they have almost achieved their target. Well done to everyone and a big thank you to the community who turned up in big numbers to support the day. TAGHMON-CAMROSS Hard luck to our Senior footballers who were defeated by two points after a mouth-watering game against Horeswood in New Ross on Sunday evening last (2-11 to 1-12). This was a great performance by the lads who gave a great display but just fell short at the final whistle. The Juniors went out of the chamionship on Friday evening last after they were defeated by Duffry Rovers. This Sunday at 3.30 p.m. in Monamolin, our hurlers will take on Ferns St. Aidan’s in the third round of the championship. We wish them the best of luck and your support is appreciated. RÉALT NA MARA The V.H.I. hurling Cúl camp was held in Ballygarrett from Monday to Friday. A great week was had by all with good weather for a change. The Under-10s are busy with the Pat Neville and Kent Steel games for the month of August. The Under-10 boys play Carnew in the divisional final tonight (Wednesday) after winning against Craanford last week. Good luck to our Under-12 girls who now go through to the county final. Hurling training continues for Under-12 boys on Mondays at 7 p.m., with matches on most Tuesdays. There will be a series of blitzes for the Under-12 boys for the month of August. The Intermediate hurling championship v. Gorey is in Farmleigh at 5 p.m. on Saturday. Good luck to our Under-14 boys who are through to the semi-final in football. Match details later. TARA ROCKS Lotto results, July 30: no jackpot winner. Lucky dip winners: Abby Breen, c/o Catherine Breen; Peter Kennedy, c/o John Joe O’Reilly; Paula Walker (each received €50). August 6: no jackpot winner. Lucky dip winners: Nathalie O’Neill, c/o Rose Sheehan; Ian Hayes, c/o Angie Dooley; Rita Byrne, c/o John Joe O’Reilly. August 3: no jackpot winner. Lucky dip winners: Mary Kavanagh, c/o Joe Breen; Pat Cox, c/o Shane McDonald; Johnny Howard, c/o Jack’s Tavern, Camolin. The jackpot now stands at €5,600. The next draw is tomorrow night (Thursday) in The Bunker Bar. Congratulations to Lee and Lisa Brennan on the birth of their baby daughter (Molly), and also congratulations to Donal Grannell and Amy on the birth of their baby son (Dylan). Those interested in ordering the new club polo shirt, please contact Mary Owley or Catherine Breen. SHAMROCKS St. Senan’s Sports Lotto results for Monday, August 10: winning numbers, 13, 16, 20, 22. One winner. Congratulations to Mary Donnelly who won the jackpot of €6,550. A great day was had by all on Sunday last when the club held their annual Under-8 hurling tournament for the Johnners Fortune Perpetual Cup. The day kicked off with the hurling semi-finals and finals, followed by games and numerous events which everyone enjoyed. In the tournament, the Rocks won the cup in the final against Monageer and the Shield was won by the Starlights against Glenealy. The Under-10 competitive match was won by Glenealy against the Rocks. Well done to all players for taking part in the games and to the clubs for getting involved in the tournament. The club would like to thank John Ryan from Mucky Paws pet grooming services for the sponsorship of the medals for the tournament, Jimmy Gahan for doing M.C., Mike O’Toole and Ian Nolan for refereeing the games, Stephen Doyle for presenting the cup, shield and medals, to all who helped out with the shop, teas, barbeque, face painting, games and events, and everyone who got involved with the tournament, from the setting up and cleaning up, to make it such an enjoyable day and success. Fixtures: ladies’ football championship match this evening (Wednesday) at 7.30 p.m., home to Bannow; Under-18 hurling championship, home to Davidstown this evening (Wednesday) at 7.30 p.m.; Junior ‘C’ hurling, Shamrocks v. St. John’s in Blackwater on Friday at 7 p.m.; Co. semi-final, Saturday, Under-16 football, Shamrocks v. St. Pat’s in Rathangan at 12.30 p.m.; Intermediate hurling v. Clongeen, Saturday at 2 p.m. in Killurin. Best of luck to all the teams in their upcoming games. MONAGEER-BOOLAVOGUE Well done to the quartet who represented Monageer-Boolavogue in the Wexford team Poc Fada competition on the Saltee Islands last weekend. The team consisted of Ed Rowsome, Niall Finn, Brian Dwyer and Peter Mernagh. They came joint first with Oulart in this annual event. There was no winner in the club’s lotto draw for a jackpot of €3,800. The numbers drawn were 16, 20, 24, 26. There was one lucky match three winner who was Eileen Cashe of Knockduff for the €160 prize. The Under-12s were in action during the week in the football championship. Good performances came from top scorer Joe Fitzgerald, Cathal Walsh at full-back and Peter Breen. The lads beat an understrength Réalt na Mara team by 5-4 to 1-4. The Under-10s were to play in the Noel O’Brien annual hurling tournament on Saturday last in Buffers Alley, but heavy overnight rain put paid to this going ahead. It is re-fixed for this coming Saturday. They will also be playing in the Kent Stainless Steel football Division 5 final at some stage in the week. The Under-16 ladies had a walkover against Bunclody and thus guaranteed their place in the camogie semi-final which will be played this evening (Wedensday) against Gorey at 7 p.m. CASTLETOWN-LIAM MELLOWS Our Intermediate hurlers play Monageer in our last championship group match. It is on Saturday, August 22, in Gorey at 3.30 p.m. We will top the group with a win. Irrespective of the result, we are through to the county quarter-final. All support is most welcome and thanks to the support for the Oulart game a fortnight ago. It was a very busy four days for our adult footballers, starting on Friday. Our Senior footballers played their next championship match on Sunday last in Hollymount against Gusserane. Despite a great team effort and key players sidelined due to injuries, they were not as successful as they were in their previous match over Horsewood. Qualfication to the next round is still on the cards. Our Junior footballers were to lose on Friday and Saturday. At the time of writing, our Under-21 footballers face a tough test on Monday night with more details next week. Training for Under-6 and Under-8 boys continues on Wednesdays in Coolgreany from 6.30 p.m. and on Saturdays in Tomnahely. A hurling and football blitz for this age group is planned for Saturday, August 29, at 11 a.m. in Coolgreany. We will need help with refereeing, catering and transporting/erecting goalposts on that morning. More details at training and in notes next week. The Tomnahely development is making progress with the the electricians on site. After that, erection of doors and flooring will take place. Meanwhile, in the background, paperwork is being prepared for submission to National Lottery funding. Those wishing to order club gear should contact Sinéad Leonard at 087-2251698. At the adult and under-age A.G.M’s last December and January, it was agreed by all that team mentors and club officers would contact the club P.R.O. by phone, text or e-mail with match reports, training details, items of interest and next matches/fixtures each Sunday before 9 p.m. HWH-BUNCLODY Our Intermediate footballers beat St. Mary’s (Rosslare) by 2-10 to 1-11 in the championship on Sunday evening. Unfortunately, this wasn’t enough to see us through to the knockout stages. More in main sports section. Our Junior footballers were beaten by 3-8 to 0-10 in the ‘B’ championship versus Oylegate-Glenbrien in Oylegate on Saturday evening. Our Junior ‘B’ footballers had a comprehensive 1-11 to 2-1 win over Ballyhogue on Friday evening in the District final. Our Under-21 footballers got a comprehensive 5-12 to 1-2 beating versus Glynn-Barntown on Monday last in the championship. Our Under-16 footballers beat Newline Gaels in the championship on a scoreline of 3-8 to 2-9 in Bunclody on Monday night last. Team: Seán Hogan; Jamie Murphy, Jason Cowman, Eoin Murphy; James Ellard, Stephen Fortune, Shane Healy; Seán Kenny, Páuric Sinnott; Seán Taylor, Aidan Nolan, Jamie John Murphy; Podge Kehoe, Shane Doyle, Ciarán Skelton. Subs. used were Matty Doran and Ronan Roberts. They have now qualified for the county semi-final versus Newline Gaels on Saturday, August 22, in Ferns at 12.30 a.m. Our Under-14 hurlers were beaten by 5-14 to 1-5 by Buffers Alley on Wednesday night last in the championship. Our Under-10s competed in the Kent Steel ‘A’ final at home on Wednesday last versus Ballyhogue, losing out by a point on a 2-7 to 2-6 scoreline. In a very exciting, close game, great scores came from Eddie Black, Edward Dunbar, Darren Doyle, Mylie Connors and John McCormack. The panel was: Peadar Cowman, Edward Dunbar, Michael Roche, Adam Hogan, Jamie Kavanagh, Byron Doyle, Darren Doyle, Eddie Black, Tadhg Kelly, Mylie Connors, John McCormack, Stephen Kavanagh, Andy Cash, Gerry Connors, Robert Weston, Ned Connors, Ed Dunbar-Wilson. We now play the ‘B’ final versus Glynn-Barntown on Wednesday, August 19, in Bree at 6.45 p.m. RAPPAREES-STARLIGHTS What a busy week, with Under-21 football on Monday last against the Martin’s in Bellefield - unlucky to be beaten after a very fine and valiant performance, trailing at the final whistle by two points (2-11 to 0-15). But great credit is due to many of our young guns who played with spirit, giving us hope for the future. Joe Cullen was strong and forceful in the full-back position striding forward, Pa Doyle was commanding in centrefield, and Ricky Fox was talented and dangerous in attack. Speaking of hope for the future - our Under-14s turned on the style they are capable of when they won the county hurling title in Wexford Park on Tuesday evening, defeating Craanford by an impressive 6-15 to 1-4. All respect to Craanford who managed to make it all the way to the final, but I would have to say that our Under-14s are something else and a definite force to be reckoned with. Having given such a good account of themselves at Féile, it would be expected that they would have the wherewithal to beat Craanford, but it was the convincing way they did so with excellent displays all over the field that made the win remarkable. We hope to be looking at these guys with pleasure for many a year to come with both their club and their county. With an early lead they were never complacent but harried, hassled and competed for every ball, driven on continuously by their outstanding captain, Kevin Foley, who brought the cup back to a jubiliant Bellefield where the celebrations continued. Our wonderful Under-10s qualified for the final of the Stainless Steel football this evening (Wednesday) at 7.15 p.m. in Bree against Ballyhogue and we want all the support we can get to cheer on Tomás McVeigh and his talented little charges. Our Under-8s put up a great performance to win the Shield competition in the Shamrocks field day on Sunday last, with our two girls playing with the team - Eimear Byrne and Maedhbh Foley - showing that they are a match for any chap on the field. Might I take this opportunity to thank the Shamrocks for inviting us into this tournament and also for the chance for our little Under-6s to have a game there as well. Our Senior footballers put in a wonderful effort on Sunday last in Wexford Park to keep their championship hopes alive, beating the Sarsfields by 2-12 to 0-5. However, their galliant effort wasn’t enough, with Kilanerin going through on greater scoring difference against Ballyhogue. Not a satisfactory way to decide the championship in my humble opinion - surely a play-off would have been a better way and would only mean another round which could have been played midweek if necessary. A pity to see a team putting in a fine display of football and winning convincingly, only to exit from the fray. Thanks to all the players, mentors Declan Ruth, Paudge Walsh, Sheamie Byrne, John Walsh, trainer Johnny Mythen and physio Pádraig Doyle for all their efforts over the season. On the social front, we had another very successful teen disco at Bellefield on Thursday night last, and our heartiest congrats to club member James Peare who celebrated a big birthday with family and friends at Bellefield on Friday night last. 
