sport football
{  
    January 25 2013 02:52 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/sport/stars-of-the-past-29031785.html }
JIM HYLAND (SHAMROCKS) Jim Hyland from St. Aidan's Villas, Enniscorthy, was during the '60s one of Shamrocks' most enterprising and close-marking players. From the time he came on as a substitute in the 1959 Co. Junior hurling final victory versus Camross in a replay, he went from strength to strength. His hooking and blocking down tactics were very crafty and clever. His neat ground strokes, lightning reflexes and first-class striking were vintage stuff. Although in some games he had to deal with taller and bigger opponents then himself, it never seemed to bother him, with his astute brain and excellent judgement, while his mobility gave him the edge to outsmart all and sundry. He won his first Co. medal in 1959 as a member of the Shamrocks team which defeated Camross in the Junior hurling final. Another medal followed in 1960 when the Shamrocks won again in the Co. Intermediate hurling final with a walkover versus Camross. Jim was a member of the Shamrocks Senior hurling team which won a classic game versus Faythe Harriers in the Co. final in 1964. He played at right half-forward. One of his finest hours playing with the Shamrocks was in the 1964 Co. Senior hurling semi-final versus St. Aidan's. At midfield he was outstanding, winning possession repeatedly and setting up his forwards for vital scores. His immense power around his area changed the trend of the game in his side's favour, and his striking and ball control were superb. He won Leinster and All-Ireland Intermediate medals with Wexford in 1961 playing at right corner-back, defeating London in the final. He could adjust to any position in the backs or midfield. He also played in the forward line. He was born in 1939 and was educated at the Mercy Convent School, Enniscorthy. His boyhood hero was the late Bill Furlong (Shamrocks). The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was the late Harry O'Connor. He first played hurling for the Shamrocks in 1957 and last played for them in 1968 versus Rathnure at right half-forward. He had one brother, Johnny Hyland, who played. The best individual display he has seen at club level was by Harry O'Connor in almost every game. The four hurlers he selects as the best he has seen while playing with the Shamrocks were Larry Byrne, Lar Rigley, Paddy Sullivan and Michael Collins R.I.P. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult he has played on while with the Shamrocks were Seamus 'Shanks' Whelan (St. Martin's), Tommy Nolan (Faythe Harriers), Phil Wilson (Ballyhogue) and Tommy Hawkins (Ferns). The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland were Tim Flood and Christy Ring R.I.P. The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Harry O'Connor R.I.P. and Jim English R.I.P. He won one Junior club medal (1959), one Intermediate club medal (1960) and one Senior club medal (1964), all with the Shamrocks in hurling. He played Minor hurling with the Shamrocks in 1956 and 1957 and Minor football with the Boys' Club in 1956 and 1957. The most exciting game of hurling that he has played in was the replay versus TIpperary in the 1961 All-Ireland Intermediate semi-final. He played with the Starlights in football for approximately six years, winning no honours and losing three Co. Senior football finals in 1961, 1962 and 1963. JIM KELLY (SHELMALIERS) For almost 25 years Jim Kelly was a stonewall and a most reliable defender to play for his beloved Shelmaliers. He endeared himself to his many followers with his wholehearted and determined defensive qualities. He always played with pride, passion and courage. Right corner-back was the usual position he normally occupied, but he could and did adjust to other positions for his side. He played every game with vigour, zeal and composure and his marking was tight and glue-like. With his good judgement he always seemed to be a yard or so in front of his opponent. His greatest attribute was his consistency and he had a calm demeanour which shone like a beacon in many of his games. He was born in 1938 and was educated at Screen N.S. His boyhood hero was the late Nick O'Donnell. His finest hour in the Shelmaliers colours was when they won the 1966 Co. Junior hurling final with victory versus Oulart-The Ballagh. Jim stamped his authority in an outstanding display from the throw-in. He was clever, cool and confident, was never flustered or hurried and always appeared to be master in his defensive role. He never allowed his opponents any freedom of movement for them to get in a telling score. He was quick in anticipating danger and quick to dispel the same. He started playing adult hurling with the Shels in 1955 and continued to play until the early '80s. One of the best goalies he has seen in hurling was Pat Nolan (OylegateGlenbrien), and the best club team he has seen in hurling was St. Aidan's, Enniscorthy. In the '50s the two greatest hurlers he saw were Bobby Rackard R.I.P. as a defender and Christy Ring R.I.P. as a forward. The late Nickey Rackard was a great leader of men. The two best dual players he has seen in Ireland were Des Foley R.I.P. (Dublin) and Teddy McCarthy (Cork). He was a selector for Junior hurling and Under-21 hurling. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was George O'Connor (St. Martin's). The four Shelmaliers hurlers he would select as the best he has seen playing with them over the years were Ollie Hearne, Willie O'Leary R.I.P., Josie O'Leary and John Sheil. The four hurlers he would select as the most difficult that he played on while with the Shelmaliers were Seamus Whelan (St. Martin's), Johnny Crean (Hollow Rangers), Nicky Newport (St. Fintan's) and Johnny Walsh (Hollow Rangers). He won one Junior hurling medal in 1966 and one Junior football medal in 1973. The best game of hurling that he has seen in Wexford was Buffers Alley (2-4) versus Rathnure (2-7) in the 1977 Co. Senior final. His brother, Billy, played Intermediate hurling with Wexford in 1962. One of the best overhead strikers he has seen in hurling was Ned Wheeler. His biggest disappointment was losing the 1961 Co. Junior hurling final to Davidstown-Courtnacuddy in a second replay. Of the present-day hurlers he would select Tommy Walsh (Kilkenny), Henry Shefflin (Kilkenny) and Joe Canning (Galway) as the best. JIM MOORE (ASKAMORE-KILRUSH) Jim Moore, who now resides at Knocknalour near Kilrush, was from 1958 to 1973 one of Askamore's top hurling defenders. He was a tenacious marker with excellent stickwork, astute and intelligent manoeuvering and great determination. Jim always played with complete dedication, moved with cohesiveness and vigour, and was a formidable opponent for any forward. He usually played at left half-back, read the game very well and had a great presence on the field. He never got ruffled and was fiercely competitive. He was born in 1941 and was educated at Ballyrobuck N.S. and Tombrack N.S. His boyhood hero was Nickey Rackard R.I.P. His brother, Martin, was also a top hurler with Askamore and his sister, Peg, won one All-Ireland camogie medal with Wexford in 1968. One of his best games playing with Askamore was versus Cushinstown in the 1969 Co. Junior hurling semi-final. He played a blinder and his distribution of the ball amongst his forwards was always destructive to the opposition. He was positive, clever and commanding and his long and accurate deliveries downfield were the highlights of the game. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Phil Wilson (Ballyhogue). One of his most joyful days was when Askamore won the 1969 Co. Junior hurling championship with victory versus St. Fintan's. The club had fought so hard to get to this stage. Another memorable occasion was when they won the Intermediate championship and went on to play in the Senior grade. The two footballers from the club that stood out were Mogue O'Neill R.I.P. and Tony Stack. He first played adult level hurling for Askamore in 1958 and last played for them in 1973. The best individual display he has seen at club level was by Mick Jacob in 1974 at No. 6 in the Co. Senior hurling final versus Rathnure. The four hurlers he selects as the best he has seen playing with Askamore were Matt Boggan, John Tobin, P.J. Nolan and Pat Boggan. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with Askamore were Jack Poole (Craanford), Mylie Donohoe (Craanford), Rory Kinsella (Gorey) and Tony Dwyer R.I.P. (Ferns). The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland of the presen-day players are Henry Shefflin (Kilkenny) and Tommy Walsh (Kilkenny). In the past the two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen were Joe Salmon R.I.P. (Galway) and Jimmy Doyle (Tipperary). The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Tony Doran and Phil Wilson. He won one Gorey District Junior medal in 1969, and one Co. Junior hurling medal with Askamore in 1969 versus St. Fintan's. The best game of hurling he has seen in Wexford was Askamore versus Bunclody in the 2009 Co. Intermediate final. He played Minor hurling with Craanford in 1959. The most exciting game of hurling he has played in was the Co. final in 1969 with Askamore against St. Fintan's. Jim was also very good at playing football with Kilrush. The best overhead striker he has seen in hurling was Ned Wheeler. The best goalies he has seen in hurling were Tony Reddan and Ollie Walsh R.I.P. JIMMY CREAN (HOLLOW RANGERS) Jimmy Crean, who resides in Pullinstown in the parish of Marshalstown, was for many years one of the top six goalies in the county. He started his adult career with the Hollow Rangers in 1958 versus Caim-Kiltealy in a Junior hurling championship game. Although the latter had some lethal forwards in their team during that period, the young Jimmy Crean - only 17 years old - was not overawed by having to face those class marksmen. For almost 20 years Jimmy manned his position in goal with confidence, calmness and an eagle eye. In 1960 he lined out in goal for the St. Aidan's Senior hurling team and in doing so missed out on a Co. Junior hurling medal as the Hollow Rangers were successful in defeating Cushinstown in the final. With his tall frame and his expert grasping of high balls coming under the crossbar, he saved his team on several occasions. He was a valuable asset to his club for 20 years. His finest hour betwen the sticks was versus Tipperary in the 1963 All-Ireland Intermediate hurling home final. He turned in a star performance, making brilliant saves time and time again. He was confident, assured and razorsharp for the full hour. His ability to read every dangerous situation was praiseworthy. He was born in 1941 and was educated at Marshalstown N.S. His boyhood hero was the late Kilkenny star Ollie Walsh. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe. His three brothers - Patsy, Johnny and Larry - were outstanding players also. All three were involved with the Wexford Intermediate team which won the All-Ireland in 1961. Johnny and Larry played while Patsy was one of the selectors. He was also a top-class footballer with the Hollow Rangers, playing at full-back. He won one Leinster Intermediate hurling medal with Wexford in 1963, one Co. Intermediate hurling medal in 1962, one Co. Junior hurling medal in 1973 and one Co. Junior football medal in 1964, all with the Hollow Rangers and Marshalstown in 1973. He first played hurling with Hollow Rangers at adult level in 1958 and last played for his club in 1978. The best individual display he has ever seen was by Bobby Rackard R.I.P. in the 1954 All-Ireland hurling final. The four hurlers he would select as the best he has seen playing with the Hollow Rangers were Johnny Crean, Larry Crean, Johnny Walsh and Seamus Kelly R.I.P. The four forwards that caused him the most trouble when playing in goal were Marks Redmond, Tim Flood, Jimmy O'Brien and Tommy Hawkins. The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland were Nick O'Donnell R.I.P. and Christy Ring R.I.P. The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Nick O'Donnell R.I.P. and Nickey Rackard R.I.P. He played Intermediate hurling for Wexford in 1962 and again in 1963. He also played Juvenile hurling and football with Marshalstown in 1957, Minor football with Marshalstown in 1958-1959, and Minor hurling with Caim-Kiltealy in 19581959. The most exciting game of hurling he played in was the Hollow Rangers versus the Shamrocks in Junior in 1959. JOE CULLEN (LIAM MELLOWS) Joe Cullen from Aske near Gorey town was a most reliable and commanding centre half-back for the Liam Mellows (Coolgreany) hurling club. Having to play with his brilliant brother, Oliver, in their team, it never seemed to bother Joe. Joe was his own man and built up his own reputation as an excellent hurler. At times his displays were equal to that of his famous brother. He was a strong, determined and confident player with strong wrists and good pace. His tenacious marking and glue-like shoulder-to-shoulder contact made it awkward for an opponent to get in a telling stroke. His finest hour in the Liam Mellows colours was versus Na Fianna in the 1964 Co. Junior hurling final. His physical strength in the half-back line thwarted many onslaughts by the opposition. His power in reading and controlling the high ball and his ability to snap up the ones coming in low were top class. He was in such great form that he outshone everyone in this encounter. CONTINUED OPPOSITE CONTINUED FROM OPPOSITE PAGE He was born in 1941 and was educated at Johnstown N.S. and Coolgreany N.S. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. Joe also played a number of games in the forward line where his strong and mobile frame caused problems to most defences. The two best dual players in Wexford in Joe's opinion were his brother, Oliver Cullen, and Phil Wilson. His brother, Oliver, gave one of the finest displays he has seen in the 1967 Co. Intermediate hurling final versus Shelmaliers when he lorded midfield. Joe won one Co. Junior hurling medal with Liam Mellows in 1964 and one Co. Intermediate hurling medal with the same club in 1967. He played his hurling from 1960 to 1982 - a fine record for this outstanding player. Over the years he was Chairman and selector of the club. Joe was one of the best around in the '60s. The four hurlers he selects as the best he has seen playing with Liam Mellows were Oliver Cullen, Tom Cullen, Pat Kinsella and Fiacra O Lionáin R.I.P. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with Liam Mellows were Mylie Donohoe (Craanford), Dick Murphy (Faythe Harriers), Oliver McGrath (Faythe Harriers) and Paddy Kavanagh (Buffers Alley). The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland were Des Foley R.I.P. (Dublin) and Bobby Rackard R.I.P. The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Phil Wilson and Dan Quigley. He played Intermediate hurling with Wexford in 1966 and 1968. He also won one Co. Senior football medal with Castletown as a substitute in 1965. The best game of hurling he has seen in Wexford was Buffers Alley (5-6) versus Faythe Harriers (4-8) in the Co. Senior final in 1968. He played Juvenile hurling with Brian Boru's in Wicklow in 1957 and Minor hurling with Liam Mellows in 1958 and 1959. The most exciting game of hurling that he has played in was the Co. Junior semi-final against Blackwater in 1964. He also played beside Billy Rackard R.I.P. at right half-back with Wexford against Dublin in 1966 in Intermediate hurling. The best club team he has seen in hurling was Rathnure in the early '70s. JOE SCOTT (ST. MARTIN'S) Joe Scott, who now lives in Coolballow on the outskirts of Wexford town, was a commanding and energetic footballer and hurler for his club, St. Martin's. In football he usually occupied the centre of the field, where his tall and well-built frame won him lots of possession which he put to good use. One of his great attributes was his ability to fight for every ball and win possession in a cluster of players. His fielding was superb and his kicking was long and well directed. Joe's role as a midfielder was a very important one as it is the nerve centre of any team. His finest hour on the football field was with the Wexford District versus Castletown in the 1968 Co. Senior championship. Although on the losing side by a big margin and playing on the great Andy Merrigan R.I.P., Joe had a marvellous game, fielding high in the air and placing every kick to the best advantage. He pursued every ball with a zest which was master-class and gave a superlative performance throughout the hour. He was born in 1941 and was educated in Baldwinstown N.S. and Salesian College, Limerick. Two of the best dual players he has seen in Wexford were Paddy Kehoe and George O'Connor. He played with St. Anne's from 1958 to 1964 and with St. Martin's from 1965 to 1986. One of the finest individual performances he has seen was given by George O'Connor at midfield for St. Martin's versus Duffry Rovers in the 1978 Intermediate football championship played in New Ross. The two greatest footballers he has seen in Ireland were Mick O'Connell and Pat Spillane. In Wexford the best he has seen were Willie Goodison R.I.P. and Joe Foley. Joe played Senior football for Wexford in 1969 and 1970 and Junior football for the county in 1968 and 1969. The two best games of football that he has seen were the drawn match and the replay between Castletown and Ballyhogue in the 1965 Co. Senior final. The best club team he has seen playing was Castletown in the '60s and '70s. He has the height of praise for the former Wexford football manager, Jason Ryan. The four footballers he selects as the best he has seen playing with St. Martin's were Vinnie Staples, George O'Connor, Liam Butler and Phil Maddock. The four footballers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with St. Martin's were Andy Merrigan R.I.P. (Castletown), Andy English (Ballyhogue), Pat Rossiter (St. Fintan's) and Con Donnelly (Clongeen). He won one Co. Junior football championship medal in 1986, two Co. finalist medals in Junior 'B' hurling in 1979 and 1980, and Special Wexford District titles in Junior football and hurling. His boyhood hero when growing up was Nickey Rackard R.I.P. The most exciting game of football that he has played in was a series of three games versus Starlights in the Junior 'B' Co. semi-final in 1983. The second game actually went to extra-time and Starlights won the third game by 1-9 to 1-4. Denis Asple played for St. Martin's in those games at centre-back and scored a penalty in the second game. The best goalie he has seen in football was Billy Morgan (Cork), and in Wexford the best goalie he has seen was Anthony Masterson. JOHN CURTIS (BALLYHOGUE) Throughout his lifetime of extraordinary service to his club and county, John Curtis worked for their benefits and betterment in every possible way. He seldom if ever missed a game at club or county level and every spare hour of the day had been given over to serving his beloved club - Ballyhogue - and Macra Na Feirme, which was such an integral part of his life for so long. This Seana Ghael award is a tribute to one who has lived and breathed G.A.A. throughout his life. John gave himself unsparingly for whatever role he undertook without even seeking to garner plaudits for all his hard work. Apart from his active involvement with the G.A.A., he was one of the top men in Marca Na Feirme, being their national Vice-President for a four-year term. He also made his mark in ploughing, winning two championships in 1965, and he went on to become a member of the Co. Ploughing committee. Despite his many engagements he also found time to be a good family man. He was involved with Macra Na Feirme for more than ten years and was a founder member of the Bree branch in 1960. He served as honorary Secretary of the branch on a few occassions. At some time or other he has been connected with almost every organisation that existed in the parish of Bree. He was one of the guiding lights behind Ballyhogue G.A.A. club when they won the 1962, 1963 and 1964 Co. Senior football championships. He played himself both in hurling and football from the age of 14 years old well into his '30s. He won two Co. Junior football medals with Ballyhogue in 1955 and 1961. He was club Secretary for 21 years and then Treasurer for six years. He was also Enniscorthy District Chairman in 1965, 1969 and 1970 and County Board Chairman in 1973, 1974 and 1975. His late father, Bill Curtis, and his late grandfather, Ned Kinsella, were very much to the fore in G.A.A. circles also. His father was the Ballyhogue goalkeeper in the most famous of all Co. Senior football finals in 1929 versus the Starlights. John's proudest moment came in 2011 when the President of the G.A.A., Christy Cooney, presented him with a beautiful medal for all of his remarkable achievements for the G.A.A. At present he has been the Seana Ghael Secretary since 1997 and in this role, like all the other roles he has, his loyality, dedication, commitment and his attention to detail leaves nothing to chance. John has travelled to see many games over many, many years and he selects the three greatest footballers he has ever seen as the late Paddy 'Bawn' Brosnan, the late Seán Purcell and Mick O'Connell. In Wexford, Willie Goodison R.I.P., Bill 'Spider' Kelly R.I.P. and Harry O'Connor R.I.P. were three of the best he has seen. Phil Wilson was the best all-round dual player he has ever seen. John was born in 1934 and was educated at Bree N.S. In his boyhood his idol was the late Tom 'Tearing' Doyle who lived a few yards down from John's home place. Many stories were told about his deeds of the past and John was glued to every word issued by the maestro of centre half-back play. His late brother, Ned Curtis, also played hurling and football. JOHN FOLEY (HORESWOOD) John Foley, who now resides at Kilhile just a short distance from Arthurstown, was from 1954 to 1970 one of Horeswood's finest footballers. He was very strong and fearless and was never flustered or hurried in his game, and always looked to be in complete control at all times. His ability to kick with both feet was a big plus, especially when playing at midfield. He also played at full-forward on several occasions. His aerial fielding was master-class as he rose superbly to field the high ball with glue-like contact. John had a positive attitude to every game he played in and opponents found it difficult to dispossess him of the ball. He could cover an amazing amount of ground in a 60-minute game and he was constructive in moving forward and was equally good at helping out his defence. John was gifted with a great brain and a fine physique which helped in his football career. One of his finest hours playing with Horeswood was in 1957 versus Cushinstown in the New Ross District Junior football semi-final. He was also outstanding in the same year when Horeswood lost the Co. semi -final to St. Martin's by 1-3 to 1-1. His displays in the two games were outstanding, and his positioning and vision, excellent hands, astute kicking and his overall brainy performance were highlights. He was born in 1935 and was educated at Ballykelly N.S. His boyhood heroes were Tony Reddan of Tipperary fame and in Wexford the late Bobby Rackard. The two best dual players he has seen in Wexford were Paddy Kehoe and Phil Wilson. Paddy also gave one of the best individual performances at club level in 1952 versus Ballymitty. His powerful strength and express running and his lovely two-footed kicking thrilled the crowd. One of the best football games that he has seen at club level was Gusserane O'Rahilly's versus the Volunteers in a drawn Co. Senior football game, also in 1952. The two best dual players he has seen in Ireland were the late Des Foley (Dublin) and Jimmy Barry Murphy (Cork). His brother, Tom, also played the game in goal for his team. John had a spell over in England in the early '60s and also was there for one year in 1956. The four Horeswood footballers he selects as the best he has seen playing with them were John Cummins R.I.P., Dom Hearn R.I.P., Victor Murphy and Ted Wallace. The four footballers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with Horeswood were John O'Brien (Geraldine O'Hanrahans), Mick Meyler (St. James'), Tom Neville (Fethard St. Mogue's) and Mick Hickey R.I.P. The two footballers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Paddy Kehoe (Gusserane) and Willie Goodison R.I.P. (Volunteers). He played Junior with Wexford in 1962. The two footballers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland were Mick O'Connell (Kerry) and Jack O'Shea (Kerry). The most exciting game of football that he has seen in Wexford was Dublin versus Wexford at Wexford Park. He won one Co. Intermediate hurling medal as a substitute in 1961 and one Fr. Murphy's football medal in 1962 in London. He played Juvenile hurling and football from 1949-1951 with Horeswood. He also played MInor hurling and football with Horeswood from 1950-1953. JOHN GALLAHUE (ST. MARY'S AND OLI) One of the biggest losses to Gaelic football in Wexford was the departure of John Gallahue from our shores in 1957. At the time he was leaving he had developed into a star-studded centre half-back, the nearest person one would and could get to emulating the late great Willie Goodison for the No. 6 jersey. Only for his leaving there is no doubt that he would have worn the Wexford jersey for many years afterwards. He was a phenomenal footballer for one so young and was years ahead of his time. He was so mature and imaginative in his play. He was brilliant with the high ball and equally brilliant in gaining possession with the low ones. His ability to field the ball head and shoulders over his opponents from a standing position were hallmarks of a superstar. John's judgement and vision and his reading of dangerous situations before they had developed was praiseworthy. His prodigious kicking with direction and accuracy were other features of this talented star. He was born in 1936 and was educated at St. Mary's N.S., Rosslare, and St. Peter's College, Wexford. With the latter he won All-Ireland Colleges football in 1953. He played Minor football at club level in 1951, 1952, 1953 and 1954. In the latter year he assisted Kilmore's St. Pat's to win the Co. Minor football championship with victory versus the Rockies. He played at centre half-back. The two best dual players he has seen in Ireland were Des Ferguson (Dublin) and Norman Allen (Dublin). He regarded Pat Leacy (Wexford) as one of the best goalies around when he was here in Wexford. When he was in St. Peter's College he selects Fr. Rory Deane, John Doyle and the late Fr. Paddy McDonald as master-class footballers. When Paddy Kehoe was playing hurling or football he tried to be present just to see him in action. He played football in England with a club called Garryowen and in th U.S.A. he won honours with Sligo. John played Juvenile football with St. Mary's (Rosslare) in 1951 and 1952 and Minor football with St. Mary's, Young Irelands and Kilmore St. Pat's. He played Junior football and hurling with St. Mary's (Rosslare) and Our Lady's Island. He played Minor football in Wexford in 1953 and was not available in 1954. He played Junior football for Wexford in 1955, 1956 and 1957, and Senior with the county in a number of National League games in 1955, 1956 and 1957 before he emigrated. When playing Senior football, Bobby Buckley (Kerry) and Peter Moore (Kildare) were the two most difficult opponents he encountered. The best individual display he has seen at club level was by Seán Turner for Wexford versus Carlow in the 1955 National Football League. The five footballers he selects as the best he has seen playing with St. Mary's were Seán Turner, Tommy Healy, Eddie McNulty, Anthony Neville and Nicholas 'Nicky' Byrne. The three footballers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland were Mick O'Connell (Kerry), Mick Higgins (Cavan) and Paddy O'Brien (Meath). The three footballers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Fr. Rory Deane, Seán Turner and Paddy Kehoe. He played Minor, Junior and Senior football for Wexford. The most exciting game of football that he played in was the 1954 Co. Minor final with Kilmore versus Rockies. JOHN LACEY (VOLUNTEERS) John Lacey, who now resides in Bishopswater in Wexford town, was for a decade or more one of the most enterprising and steady left corner-backs to play Junior football in the late '50s and for most of the '60s. He was an excellent man-marker, shoulder to shoulder with his opponent, and he was quick and decisive in his blocking down tactics. In every game he played in he had a job to do and right well did he achieve his objective. John's honest endeavour, spirit, courage, enthusiasm and dedication were all features of his general play. All through the years he played, he was the essence of reliability and dependability and was always in control on his own patch. He was born in 1937 and was educated at Wexford C.B.S. His boyhood hero was Willie Goodison R.I.P. He played Juvenile hurling with the Faythe Harriers in 1953, winning one Co. medal with them. He played Juvenile and Minor football with the Volunteers. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Phil Wilson. His brother, Nicky, was an outstanding goalie with the Faythe Harriers and footballer with the Volunteers. One of his finest hours playing with the Volunteers was in the drawn Co. Junior football final versus Castletown in 1960. At left corner-back he was solid, confident and hard-tackling and his defensive covering was compelling, commanding and tenacious. John was a member of the Volunteers committee for a good few years. He played for eleven years and won only one Juvenile hurling medal. But it didn't worry him as he got great joy and fulfilment out of each game and made many friends in doing so. Excluding Volunteers players, the best three footballers he had seen were Tommy Nolan (Sarsfields), Pete Crowley R.I.P. (Sarsfields) and Larry O'Shaughnessy (Castletown). He was also an outstanding hurler with the Volunteers for a good few years. The best individual displays he has seen at club level were by Tommy Nolan and Pete Crowley R.I.P. in several games with the Sarsfields. The five footballers he selects as the best he has seen playing with the Volunteers were Willie Goodison R.I.P., John Morris R.I.P., John O'Connor R.I.P., Frank Morris and Charlie Golden. The four footballers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with the Volunteers were Jackie O'Brien (Our Lady's Island), Gay Stafford (Dan O'Connells), Seán Sheridan (Castletown) and Seán Beale R.I.P. (Sarsfields). The two footballers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland were Mick O'Connell (Kerry) and Maurice Fitzgerald (Kerry). The two footballers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Phil Wilson (Ballyhogue) and John Morris R.I.P. (Volunteers). The best game of football he has seen in Wexford was the 1959 Wexford District Junior final with Sarsfields winning versus the Volunteers. He played Minor football with the Volunteers in 1954 and 1955. The most exciting game of football that he played in was a drawn Co. Junior final versus Castletown in 1960. His biggest disappointment was losing to the Cathal Brughas (Sarsfields) in 1958 when the scoreline was 4-14 to 1-2 in favour of the latter. The best club team he has seen in Wexford was the Duffry Rovers team in the '80s and early '90s. CONTINUED OVERLEAF JOHN MYTHEN (ST. AIDAN'S, ENNISCORTHY) John Mythen, originally from Pearse Road in Enniscorthy and now living in Dublin, was a class act in both hurling and football, especially in his under-age years. He was gifted with unlimited skill and one had to marvel at the way he lifted the ball and one might think it was part of his hurl. He was very clever, very mobile with flair, panache and excellent control with the little ball and the big one. When he gained possession in either code he could run half the length of the field by passing all and sundry on his way. With his good friend Jimmy Nolan they formed a magnificent partnership in both codes at Juvenile level. John's first touch was marvellous. His innate capacity to hit a ball with deadly accuracy from any angle was a feature of this lovely hurler. One of his finest hours while playing hurling was in the 1954 Co. Juvenile final versus the Faythe Harriers. Although on the losing side by 2-8 to 1-3, John gave a wonderful display of textbook standard. The Faythe Harriers had two of the best Juvenile midfielders in their team with Bobby O'Leary and Martin Bergin R.I.P. John as captain dominated the proceedings as was easily 'man of the match'. He ran the show and it was no fault of his that his team failed. He also played Juvenile football with the Starlights. In Minor hurling he played three years with St. Aidan's in 1954, 1955 and 1956. In Juvenile and Minor football he played with the Emmets and Starlights. He played Junior hurling with St. Aidan's and Junior football with the Starlights. He won three Co. Senior hurling medals with the St. Aidan's team in 1957, 1958 and 1959, coming in as a substitute in the 1957 final for Tom Ryan R.I.P. The other two medals he won as a substitute. His father, Paddy Mythen R.I.P., was one of the best footballers to play for the Starlights and Wexford. His uncle, Aidan R.I.P., also played for the Starlights as did his brother, Paddy Jnr. John was born in 1938 and was educated in Enniscorthy C.B.S. He first played for St. Aidan's at adult level in 1956 and last played for them in 1963, and was a committee member for them too. The best dual players he has seen in Wexford were Paddy Kehoe and Harry O'Connor R.I.P. The best individual display he has seen at club level in Wexford was by Nick O'Donnell R.I.P. against the Faythe Harriers in the 1959 final. The game he would select as having his finest hour in was when scoring two goals in the Junior District hurling in Farmleigh, beating a very good Ballyhogue side which won out that year. The four hurlers he would select as the best he has seen playing with St. Aidan's were Nick O'Donnell R.I.P., Padge Kehoe R.I.P., Harry O'Connor R.I.P. and Tom Dixon R.I.P. The three hurlers he found most difficult to play on while with St. Aidan's were Eddie Kelly, Packie Harris R.I.P. (Cloughbawn) and John O'Brien (Geraldine O'Hanrahans). The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Nick O'Donnell R.I.P. and Bobby Rackard R.I.P. The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland were Eddie Keher (Kilkenny) and Jimmy Doyle (Tipperary). When going to school his boyhood hero was Nickey Rackard R.I.P. He played Juvenile and Minor with St. Aidan's, the Starlights and Emmets from 1953 to 1956. JOHN SHEIL (SHELMALIERS) John Sheil from Screen was a regular member of the Shelmaliers hurling team from 1957 to 1976. As most of his games were played in the half-back position he had to contend with some of the best Junior half-forwards in the county. In every game he participated in he made sure that none of his opponents had a free run at the goals. He needed very little space to get in one of his long deliveries downfield. He was blessed with great vision, good balance and his first touch was perfect. John had unlimited energy and had mastered the art of overhead striking. He played Juvenile hurling and Minor hurling with the Shelmaliers in the late '50s. His brother, Pat Sheil R.I.P., who played in goal for many years with the club received a Seana Ghael award in 2011. The most exciting games of hurling that he played in were the three games versus St. Fintan's in the 1961 Wexford District final, winning out at the third attempt. The three games versus Davidstown-Courtnacuddy were also very exciting. In the drawn encounter versus the latter he had one of his finest hours. Playing confident hurling, he won most of his duels with his opponent. His great self-belief, skill and technique won him many followers. John had loads of courage and was masterclass on the day. He was a selector and committee member with the Shelmaliers for a number of years. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Phil Wilson whose speed and ball control were a delight to watch. He played first for the Shelmaliers club at Junior level in 1957 and finished his career with the club in 1976 - 19 years in which he enjoyed every game he participated in. The best dual player he has seen in Ireland was Jimmy Barry Murphy (Cork). Mick Jacob, Tony Doran and Ollie Hearne were brilliant club players in his opinion. The best individual display he has seen at club level was by Josie O'Leary (Shelmaliers) versus Oulart-The Ballagh in the Co. Junior hurling final in 1966. The four hurlers he selects as the best he has seen playing with the Shelmaliers were Ollie Hearne, Josie O'Leary, Denny Breen and Jim Kelly. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with the Shelmaliers were Nicky Newport (St. Fintan's), John Keane (St. Fintan's), Mick Browne (Crossabeg-Ballymurn) and Larry Delaney (Davidstown-Courtnacuddy). The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland are Tommy Walsh (Kilkenny) as a defender and John Mullane (Waterford) as a forward. The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Tony Doran as a forward and Liam Dunne as a defender. His uncles, John, Pat, Lar, Tom and Willie Roche, all played hurling with Ballymurn. He won one Junior hurling championship medal in 1966, one Junior football championship medal in 1973, and numerous league and tournament medals during his career. The best game of hurling he has seen in Wexford was the Faythe Harriers versus Buffers Alley in the Co. Senior hurling final in 1981 when the Harriers won with a scoreline of 2-10 to 2-9. His favourite position on the hurling field was wing-back. The best goalie he has seen was Ollie Walsh R.I.P. JOHNNY CONNORS (HWH-BUNCLODY) Johnny Connors, who resides in Irish Street, Bunclody, was for many years one of the best dual players to play for Half Way House-Bunclody. He was a colourful and spectacular footballer and hurler. In the former game he was brilliant, rising repeatedly like a swallow, fielding superbly and kicking with vision and accuracy. His contribution to his side was immense and his presence inspirational, and he was the driving force behing his teams' successes. Johnny roamed all over the field and was never found wanting in his midfield duties. He had unlimited energy and was always full of running. Gaelic games was very much a part of his sporting life and he loved every moment and every game during his career. He was born in 1940 and was educated at Bunclody N.S. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. Two of his brothers, Mickey and Mylie, were both brilliant dual players with their beloved Half Way House-Bunclody and Wexford county teams. The three best dual players he has seen in Wexford were Phil Wilson (Ballyhogue), Oliver Cullen (Castletown) and Joe Foley (Ballyhogue). One of Johnny's finest hours playing football for his club was in the 1968 Co. Junior final win versus Clongeen. At midfield he worked like a beaver and with his energetic running, high fielding and astute kicking he was outstanding. In under-age competitions he played with Bunclody and Kilrush United. After many years with Half Way House-Bunclody he finished his career with Kilrush-Askamore. He was over 50 years of age when he retired. He started playing Junior football with his club in 1961 and finished up with them in 1978. The most exciting game of football that he played in was for Half Way House-Bunclody versus Clongeen in the 1968 Co. Junior final. The four footballers he selects as the best he has seen playing with Half Way House-Bunclody were Tony O'Loughlin, Patsy Cleere R.I.P., George Rankin and P.J. Doyle. They had one of the best goalies in the county in his brother, Mickey Connors. The four footballers he found the most difficult that he played on while with his club were Andy Merrigan R.I.P. (Castletown), Johnny Walsh (Hollow Rangers), Mosie Morrissey (Gusserane) and Willie Foley R.I.P. (Ballyhogue). The two footballers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland were Mick O'Connell and Tony McTague (Offaly). The two footballers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Andy Merrigan R.I.P. (Castletown) and Freddie Cudlipp (Castletown). Of the presentday players, Matty Forde is very good. He won one Intermediate football medal in 1976 with Half Way House-Bunclody and one Co. Junior football medal in 1968, also with Half Way House-Bunclody versus Clongeen in the final. The best game of football he has seen in Wexford was Half Way House-Bunclody winning the Co. Senior title in 1982. He played Juvenile hurling and football with Kilrush-Askamore United and Bunclody in 1956 and 1957. Johnny won a number of District hurling medals with Half Way House-Bunclody during his career. He was as good a hurler as he was a footballer. He was a substitute on the Wexford Junior football team in the '60s. The best club team he has seen in Wexford was the Duffry Rovers. JOHNNY DOYLE (BALLYMITTY AND ST. ANNE'S) In his playing days, Johnny Doyle from Belgrove near Duncormick was a commanding and self-assured footballer. The clubs he played for were Corah Ramblers in 1955, 1956 and 1957. In 1958 he lined out with Ballymitty from the same parish as the Ramblers. Then in 1963 he moved over to St. Anne's and continued to play with them until 1966 which was his last year playing competitive football. He won two Co. Junior football medals, the first in 1956 as a substitute with the Corah Ramblers who defeated Cloughbawn in the final. He won again in 1964 with St. Anne's who defeated Half Way House-Bunclody in the final. Johnny came on as a substitute and scored a spectacular goal to complete the victory for his side. In 1961 playing with the Ballymitty Junior footballers they lost the Co. final to Ballyhogue. He was a most accomplished, determined and dynamic player. He was quick, strong, clever and decisive in gaining possession and was supreme in his judgement and aerial fielding. He was born in 1937 and was educated at Ballymitty N.S. His boyhood hero was the late Bill 'Spider' Kelly of county fame and Ballymitty. His finest hour was in the 1961 Co. Junior football semi-final with Ballymitty when they defeated Our Lady's Island. Playing at No. 6, he was superb, showing great courage, guile, grit and physical fitness as he dominated his area from the start. The crowd loved his attitude and his will to win. The best dual player he has seen in the county was Paddy Kehoe. The best dual player he has seen in the Ballymitty club was Finny Campbell. The best individual display he has ever seen was by Peter Tobin R.I.P. in the 1956 Co. Junior football final for Corah Ramblers playing against Cloughbawn. The four footballers he selects as the best he has seen playing with his clubs were Francis Cullen (Bannow-Ballymitty), Aidan McCormick R.I.P. (Bannow-Ballymitty), Jack Berry R.I.P. (St. Anne's, Rathangan) and Davy Rowe (St. Anne's, Rathangan). The four footballers he selects as the most difficult he played on while with his clubs were Mickey Byrne R.I.P. (Ballyhogue), Mick Meyler (St. James'), Seán Myers R.I.P. (Gusserane) and Peter Doyle (Dan O'Connells). The two footballers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland were Pat Spillane (Kerry) and Mick O'Connell (Kerry). The two footballers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Jack Berry R.I.P. (St. Anne's, Rathangan) and Redmond Barry (St. Anne's, Rathangan). He had one uncle, Bill Carthy R.I.P. from Ballymitty, who played in the '40s. He won four District football medals in 1963, 1964, 1965 and 1966, all with St. Anne's, Rathangan. The best game of football he has ever seen in Wexford was the 2001 Senior Co. final with St. Anne's, Rathangan versus Kilanerin with a score of 3-8 to 0-13. He played Juvenile football in 1952 and 1953 with Ballymitty. He also played Minor football with Ballymitty as the Corah Ramblers in 1954 and 1955, and they were beaten in the Co. semi-final by Sarsfields in 1955. The most exciting game of football that he played in was the 1966 Co. Junior final with St. Anne's, Rathangan versus Half Way House-Bunclody. He scored the winning goal for St. Anne's. JOHNNY MURRAY (ST. ABBAN'S, ADAMSTOWN) Johnny Murray, sometimes called Jack, who now resides at Robinstown near Raheen, was for a decade one of Adamstown's most elusive, crafty and enterprising forwards to play for the club. Seldom if ever a game went by without him registering a score or two for his team. He had great mobility, good ball control, an astute brain and was always dangerous around his opponents' goal. Of the great Wexford teams of the '50s the ones that were his favourites were Bobby Rackard R.I.P., Jim Morrissey R.I.P., Nickey Rackard R.I.P. and Tim Flood. When he was starting out his hurling career he had a lot to live up to because the men who played before him in the late '20s and throughout the '30s were all superstars, winning so many championships during that period. Johnny's two brothers, Bill and Paddy, were also outstanding members of the Adamstown hurling teams, with Paddy playing for Wexford at Intermediate and Junior level. Johnny was born in 1933 and was educated at Raheen N.S. His boyhood hero was the late Mick Mackey of Limerick fame. He started playing Junior with Adamstown in 1954 and finished up his career in 1965. The two best dual players that he has seen in Wexford were Paddy Kehoe and Phil Wilson. The two best dual players he has seen in Ireland were Des Ferguson (Dublin) and Jack Lynch R.I.P. (Cork). He was a selector with the Minor hurling team in 1991. One of the best individual displays he has seen in Wexford was given by the late Pat Harrington for Cloughbawn in the 1949 Co. Senior hurling final versus Rathnure. Not moving only a couple of yards at a time, he seemed to be able to be wherever the ball landed at all times and his clearances were of great length. He played Minor hurling with Cloughbawn in 1950 and 1951. The game he selects as having his finest hour while playing with Adamstown was against Geraldine O'Hanrahans. The four hurling players he selects as the best he has seen playing with Adamstown were Patrick Fortune, Seamus Curtis, Jimmy Galway and Philip Doyle. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with Adamstown were John Brennan (Rathgarogue), Aidan Roche (Clongeen), Dick Murphy R.I.P. (Camross) and Will O'Leary R.I.P. (Shelmaliers). The three hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland and excluding Wexford were Christy Ring R.I.P., Eddie Keher and Jimmy Doyle. The three hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Bobby Rackard R.I.P., Tim Flood and Mick Jacob. The most exciting game that he played in was the District semi-final against Camross in 1961. Of the present-day Senior hurlers he selects Tommy Walsh (Kilkenny), Henry Shefflin (Kilkenny), Richie Power (Kilkenny) and Damien Hayes (Galway) as the best he has seen. He would also select Lar Corbett (Tipperary). He would class them all as brilliant. The greatest goalie he has seen in hurling was Tony Reddan (Tipperary). LARRY MURPHY (FERNS ST. AIDAN'S) Larry Murphy, who resides in Páirc Mhuire, Ferns, was from 1956 to 1970 an ever-present member of the Ferns hurling club. He was a very versatile player who could adapt to any position entrusted to him. Centre half-back or midfield were generally the areas where he gave some of his finest displays. A gifted ball player, his first touch was class and his clearances were long and well-directed. His ability to win possession in the tightest situations was praiseworthy. Larry had the skill, footwook, determination and courage to win himself lots of ball around his area. He was born in 1939 and was educated at Ballyduff N.S. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. He started his career playing Juvenile hurling with Ferns in 1954 and Minor hurling with the same club in 1956 and 1957. In the latter year he won his first Co. medal when Ferns defeated New Ross Geraldine O'Hanrahans in the Co. final. His first year with the Juniors was in 1960 and his last year was in 1970 when he retired. The three hurlers that impressed him most in Wexford during the last 40 years were Mick Jacob, Tony Doran and Liam Dunne. The best two dual players he has seen in Ireland were Des Foley R.I.P. (Dublin) and Jimmy Barry Murphy (Cork). Larry's finest hour playing with Ferns was in the 1957 Co. Minor hurling final win versus Geraldine O'Hanrahans. At centre half-back he played a blinder, winning virtually every ball that came in his direction, and his display in this game was a virtuoso performance and inspired the rest of his team-mates to play out of their skins. The two best dual players he has seen in Wexford were Paddy Kehoe and Phil Wilson. The best individual display he has seen in Wexford was given by Aidan Nolan for Ferns versus Faythe Harriers in the 1965 Co. Senior hurling championship first round. At midfield and as captain he was brilliant in a great game of hurling. The four hurlers he selects as the best he has seen playing with Ferns were Brendan Morris, Tommy Hawkins, Tom Guinan and Dominic Murphy. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with Ferns were Eamonn O'Neill (Askamore), Oliver Cullen (Liam Mellows), Paddy Sinnott (Buffers Alley) and Willie Kelly (Hollow Rangers). The three hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland were Henry Shefflin (Kilkenny), Jimmy Doyle (Tipperary) and Tommy Walsh (Kilkenny). CONTINUED OPPOSITE The three hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Bobby Rackard R.I.P., Phil Wilson and Tim Flood. He won a Minor Co. medal in 1957, Buffers Alley tournament medals and Junior tournament medals during his career. The best game of hurling he has seen in Wexford was Buffers Alley versus Rathnure in the 1988 Co. Senior final drawn game. The most exciting game of hurling that he played in was the Senior championship in 1964 against the Shamrocks playing on Paul Lynch. Ferns had a superb team in club hurling in the '60s. The best hurling team he has seen in Wexford was the Rathnure team in the early '70s. MAGGIE HEARNE (ST. JOHN'S/BUFFERS ALLEY) Margaret Hearne, known as Maggie to her many friends, was one of the golden girls on the camogie scene for most of the '60's and all of the '70s. A colleen with an amazing amount of skill and panache, she who glided through each game with effortless ease. No matter whether she was playing for her club, county or province she was a shining star. Maggie seemed to have a magnetic effect on her opponents and she dominated her area no matter which position she occupied in the field. Her speed of thought, her mobility, her vision, her ball control and her knowledge of the game made her a star elite. Maggie always played the game as it should be played, never indulging in the rough stuff. She was a sports lady supreme and everyone who played against her had only the highest praise for the lady from Newfort in Screen. Her sister, Lily, was also a camogie star for many years. She was born in 1942 and educated at Screen N.S. In her younger days her idol was Judy Doyle of Dublin camogie fame. When playing in the club championship in Wexford the four players she found hard to master were Mary Sinnott, Brigid Doyle, Joan Murphy and Bernie Doyle (nee Kehoe). Maggie also is a big follower of G.A.A. and she selects Damien Fitzhenry, Tony Doran and the late Nickey Rackard as her favourites. She won the Powers All Star award in 1974. She refereed at club, county and inter-provincial level. She also won three AllIreland Club seven-a-side finals. She started playing camogie at 16 years of age and finished up in her mid-40s. She won 14 Co. Senior championship medals, five with St. John's and nine with Buffers Alley. The positions she played in most were centrefield and centre-forward. She played for Wexford for 12 years. The best three players that she played on with her club were Brigid Doyle, Helena O'Neill and Bernie Murphy. Of the present-day camogie players in Wexford her favourites are Kate Kelly, Mary Leacy, Katrina Parrock and Karen Atkinson. Her sister, Lily, played corner-forward during her career. The game she selects as having her finest hour was playing against Kilkenny and marking Ann Downey. She also played for Leinster. The most disappointing game that she played in was when St. Ibar's beat St. John's in a Co. final. She was being marked by her sister, Lily. The three greatest camogie players she has seen in Ireland were Margaret O'Leary, Angela Downey and Kathleen Mills. She was also a member of the Wexford camogie team which won the All-Ireland Senior title in 1975. Maggie spent a couple of years in America, returning in 1970. She was the Wexford Senior captain in 1971 when they lost the final to Cork. She had a brilliant game in 1975 when she assisted Buffers Alley in breaking Cloughbawn-Adamstown's winning run in the Co. final. One of her big disappointments was in the '70s when her club, Buffers Alley, lost their crown to St. Paul's of Kilkenny in the All-Ireland Club championship semi-final by 2-9 to 2-7. Maggie scored 0-4 in the game. MATT BROWNE (SHAMROCKS) Matt Browne, who now resides in Blackrock, Co. Dublin, was for many years one of the Shamrocks' most brilliant hurling defenders. He played with a calculated assurance and used his master-class hurling to good effect. The quality of his play was first class and time and time again he smashed raids from the jaws of disaster. His polished style combining speed, control, brains and technique were hallmarks of a star elite with calmness, composure, astute positional sense and clever covering putting him a yard or two in front of his opponents most times. Matt used all of his possession productively, and pulled the shutters down when pressure came on his defence. His valour often far exceeded the call of duty. Matt was a thorough gentlemen off the field as he was a sportsman on it. He was born in 1942 and was educated at Enniscorthy C.B.S. and U.C.D. His boyhood hero was Bobby Rackard R.I.P. The two best dual players he has seen were Paddy Kehoe and Phil Wilson. One of Matt's finest hours was versus Faythe Harriers when Shamrocks defeated them in the 1964 Co. Senior hurling final in New Ross. He had a sure first touch and the craft and the effectiveness of his hurling were first class. Matt hoovered up everything that came down his side of the field and always seemed to have time and space to get in his long deliveries. Another brilliant hour was versus Buffers Alley in the 1969 Co. Senior hurling semi-final when he was at his brilliant best. Matt played hurling with the Shamrocks, Rapparees, U.C.D. and Cuala in the Dublin championship. He first played for the Shamrocks at adult level in 1960 while still a Minor and last played with all his clubs in 1992. He was both a selector and committee member for 30 years or more with the Shamrocks, Rapparees and Cuala, Dublin. He had two brothers, Liam and John, who also played. The best individual display he has seen was by John Nolan R.I.P. in the 1960 All-Ireland Senior hurling final. The four hurlers he selects as the best he has seen playing with the Shamrocks were Larry Byrne, Paddy Sullivan, Paul Lynch and Michael Collins R.I.P. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult he has played on while with the Shamrocks were Oliver McGrath, Tony Doran, Martin Quigley and Tony Butler (St. Martin's). The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland were Bobby Rackard R.I.P. and D.J. Carey. The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Bobby Rackard R.I.P. and Tim Flood. He played with Wexford in Senior hurling from 1963 to 1972. He won numerous medals during his career - one Wexford Intermediate championship medal, three Wexford Senior championship medals, two Leinster Senior medals, three Railway Cup medals, one Fitzgibbon medal with U.C.D., three Walsh Cup medals, one All-Ireland Masters medal with Wexford and one Dublin Senior league medal with Cuala. The best game of hurling he has seen in Wexford was St. Aidan's versus Rathnure in the 1961 county final. He played Minor hurling with the Shamrocks in 1960 and lost in the county final to KilmoreRathangan. MICEAL O'NEILL (FERNS ST. AIDAN'S) Miceál O'Neill was endowed with the requisite qualities of a top-class footballer and his concentration and skill were exceptional. In the '50s he was the Colm 'Gooch' Cooper of forward play in Wexford. He displayed a lot of skill, speed and penetrative ability. When that left foot of his went into action it was like he had a rocket launcher inside of it. His clinical consistency and his ability to find gaps in the tightest of defences were beyond the ken of most forwards. His wisdom, his vision, his anticipation and his speed of thought made him a star elite in the '50s and early '60s. Miceál always used his foresight to his advantage, frequently gaining crucial and opportunistic possession. He always used the body swerve to perfection. He was born in 1934 and was educated at different schools - Westland Row C.B.S., Tombrack, Ferns N.S. and St. Peter's College. His boyhood heroes were Fr. Dermot Clancy R.I.P., Fr. Rory Deane and Nickey Rackard R.I.P. One of the best goalies he has seen in football was Johnny Culloty (Kerry). The two best dual players he has seen were Des Foley R.I.P. (Dublin) and Paddy Kehoe. The two best club football teams he has seen in Wexford were Gusserane O'Rahilly's in the '50s and Castletown in the late '60s and '70s. Miceál first played adult football with Ferns in 1952 and finished up in 1962. He had played Juvenile with Ferns in 1949 to 1950. He was Chairman of the Ferns club in 1964 and 1965 and selector in the late '50s and early '60s. His late father, Martin O'Neill, was the best-known official in Ireland for many years and also a brilliant footballer who played for Wexford many times. All his uncles - Aodh, Des, Cara, Joe, Paddy and Colm - played football at the highest level. His brothers - Fr. Tomás, Martin Og, Brendan, Seán, Finbar and Ciarán - played with class and grandeur. Miceál also played Junior and Senior football for Wexford. The five best footballers he has seen in Ireland in the last 50 years were Mick Lyons, Paddy McCormack, Mick O'Connell, Colm Cooper and Colm O'Rourke. The four best footballers he has seen in Wexford in the past 60 years were Andy English (Ballyhogue), Paddy Kehoe (Gusserane), Mickey Byrne R.I.P. (Ballyhogue) and Freddie Cudlipp (Castletown). He won one provincial colleges with Leinster in 1953 and one Intermediate hurling medal with Ferns in 1958. The best individual display he has seen at club level was Pa Plummer's showing in the Co. final in the mid-'50s. The game of football he selects as having his finest hour in was playing with Ferns in the 1955 Co. Senior football final. His display was exceptional and was a problem for the St. Munn's defence. The four footballers he selects as the best he has seen playing with Ferns were Mylie Breen R.I.P., Pa Plummer, Martin Og O'Neill R.I.P. and Noel Moynihan R.I.P. The four footballers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with Ferns were Ned Purcell (Castletown), Leo Goodison (Volunteers), Larry Larkin (Gusserane) and Andy Kennedy (Kilrush). MICHAEL ROWSOME (MONAGEER-B'VOGUE) Michael Rowsome from Tomsallagh near Ferns was one of MonageerBoolavogue's special players for a number of years. He had a great attitude, excellent skill, powerful upper body strength and was a brilliant ball-winner. He had the ability to get the best out of every ball that came his way. Mike filled his defensive duties with authority, calmness and confidence. He showed at all times that he was very competitive and had a high level of skill and class. His consistency in game after game was admirable and he was one that was never overpowered by any opponent. He was born in 1941 and was educated at Monageer N.S. and St. Philomena's College in Cork. His boyhood hero wasBobby Rackard R.I.P.. One of his finest hours playing hurling was with the Wexford Minor hurling team versus Dublin in the 1959 Leinster semi-final. In this game he never sparkled more brilliantly, his spirit and his skill was of incalculable value and he lifted his game to the top level. He was resolute and clever throughout the full hour. The two best dual players he has seen in Wexford were Joe Foley (Ballyhogue) and Harry O'Connor R.I.P. The two best dual players he has seen in Ireland were Teddy McCarthy (Cork) and Des Foley R.I.P. (Dublin). He first played Junior hurling with Monageer-Boolavogue in 1957 and last played with them in 1976. He was a selector and committee member with his club for many years. Three of his brothers - Fr. Morgan, Billy and Declan - were all outstanding players, with the latter two representing the county. His late father, Pierce, played football for many years. The best individual display he has seen was given by Bobby Rackard R.I.P. for Wexford in the 1954 All-Ireland hurling final versus Cork. The best game of club hurling he has seen was Rathnure versus Buffers Alley in the 1986 Co. Senior final. It was a classic. Mike won one Co. medal in 1974 with MonageerBoolavogue when they captured the Junior hurling tittle. The five players he selects as the best he has seen playing with Monageer-Boolavogue were Joe Somers (goalie), Ned O'Brien, Dick Walsh, Tommy Walsh and Frank Cox. The four players he would select as the most difficult that he played on in his hurling career were Johnny Walsh (Hollow Rangers), Paul Lynch (Shamrocks), Tom Dunne R.I.P. (Caim-Kiltealy) and Mick Delaney (Duffry Rovers). The two players he selects as the best he has seen in hurling in Ireland were Mick Roche (Tipperary) and Christy Ring R.I.P. (Cork). The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Wexford were Bobby Rackard R.I.P. and Tim Flood. He played Minor hurling for Wexford in 1959. He played both Juvenile hurling and football with Monageer-Boolavogue in 1956 and 1957. He played Minor football and hurling with Ferns St. Aidan's in 1959. The most exciting game of hurling that he played in was MonageerBoolavogue versus the Shamrocks in the 1959 Enniscorthy District final. The best club team he has seen in hurling was St. Aidan's in the '50s, and the best goalie he has seen was Pat Nolan (Oylegate-Glenbrien). MICK BUTLER (RATHNURE) In 1950 a star goalie was emerging in the person of Mick Butler from the Rathnure club. He first made his name with the Mountain Slashers when he won his first medal with the team that won the 1951 Co. Juvenile hurling final with victory versus the Faythe Harriers by 2-0 to 1-2. In his days here in Ireland a forward had to be exceptionally good and accurate to get the ball past him. He defied and thwarted some of the best forwards in the county from scoring goals against his team. He was hawk-like, brilliant and with sharp reflexes was as cool and as calm as they come and broke the hearts of many forwards. He played Juvenile hurling for two years and Minor hurling with Rathnure for three years in 1952, 1953 and 1954. He was a substitute goalie for the Wexford Minor hurling team in 1954. Mick's first outing with the Rathnure Senior hurling team was in 1956 when he was in goal when they lost to St. Aidan's. In 1957 the latter were their undoing again, losing the county final by 5-10 to 2-5 in Wexford Park. In 1958 again playing in goal he had his finest hour versus St. Aidan's played in New Ross. Although beaten five times he gave a brilliant display. The shots came at him from all angles high and low, but he dealt capably with most of them. That day also he recalls Oliver Gough (Rathnure) giving the best exhibition of hurling that he has seen in Wexford. Mick was born in 1936 and was educated at Rathnure N.S. His last game with Rathnure was versus Oylegate-Glenbrien in the 1960 Senior hurling championship. In his boyhood days he idolised the three Rackard brothers - Nickey, Bobby and Billy - and he was elated when he joined up with them on the Rathnure Senior hurling team in the latter half of the '50s. He is a committee member of the Fr. Murphy's club in London and Life President with the club. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe. He also played hurling with Cuchulainns in the Senior championship. Martin Codd, Jim English and Peter Barron, all now sadly deceased, were other star players with Rathnure. He last played hurling with his club for Fr. Murphy's in 1998 at the age of 52 years old. He had one brother, Joe, that played. The game he would select as having his finest hour playing in goal was for London versus Kilkenny in the All-Ireland semi-final in Croke Park in 1972. The four Rathnure players he would select as the best he has seen while playing with them were Martin Codd R.I.P., Nickey Rackard R.I.P., Bobby Rackard R.I.P. and Billy Rackard R.I.P. The four hurlers that caused him the most problems when playing with Rathnure were Tom Ryan R.I.P., Tom Dixon R.I.P., Padge Kehoe R.I.P. and Tim Flood. The two players he would select as the best he has seen in Ireland were Pat Stakelum R.I.P. and Christy Ring R.I.P. He won All-Ireland Junior (London) medals and one Rathnure Senior medal, Senior and Junior medals, 'B' championship medals, numerous Cup medals and the Powers Gold Label Sports Star Exile award in 1971. The most exciting game of hurling that he played in was London versus Kilkenny in the All-Ireland semi-final in Croke Park in 1972. THIS SPECIAL SERIES WILL CONTINUE NEXT WEEK 
