sport football
{  
    July 22 2007 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/soccer/real-villains-are-lost-leaders-26306282.html }
WHEN you hear that the City of London police have raided three football clubs, or that an agent claims to own a player's 'economic rights', or that West Ham United is paying journeymen footballers outrageous salaries, it is easy to believe that sport - and particularly the English Premiership - is being destroyed by money. Easy, too, to dismiss all footballers as greedy mercenaries and to hark back to the great old days when sport was simply sport, when noble players pitted their talents against each other for the joy of taking part in a great game. Then came the deluge of money, and sport was ruined. It is an argument - or, more usually, a statement of incontrovertible fact - that is trotted out every season. Invariably, too, it makes an appearance in the weeks before the start of the new Premiership season, as football writers fret about what to write once they've covered the latest transfer news. Simon Barnes, a fine sports columnist with the London Times, captured the genre perfectly on Friday when he wrote that "it is loyalty to money rather than human beings that makes for so many of sport's troubles What I most truly loathe about the professionalising of sport has been the loss of a million individual souls." At first glance it all sounds perfectly plausible. Money corrupts, and too much money corrupts absolutely. Over the next three years some £2.7bn will pour into English football thanks to the latest TV deals and that cash will bloat the game further. Clubs that achieve little, that consistently fail to even qualify for European competitions but manage to preserve their Premiership status each year will be able to turn very handsome profits. The lure of profit will always attract investors, and it is hardly surprising that clubs as underachieving as West Ham and Manchester City should fall to foreign ownership. The arrival of those foreigners takes the money argument to another level - that modern football has lost its connection to the local community, a connection that is said to be vital to its moral well-being. While I can understand where Barnes is coming from when he laments the dishonesty in modern sport, the problems that affect English football stem not from the amounts of cash that now flow into the game but from the persistent inability to manage it competently. Agents pollute football because those who claim to run the sport have been too slow, too blind or too venal to regulate them; billionaires buy clubs and distort the market because there are no rules to prevent that distortion. In that, the English Premiership is no different from most sports, whether amateur or professional. For whatever unfathomable reasons, the people who gravitate to the top administrative positions in sport do not seem to possess the skills to actually lead their sports. Even if they did, most sports organisations are structured in such a way that change is difficult to implement. The result is inevitable incompetence and endemic corruption, whether at the highest levels of the Olympic movement or at the lower level of football agents and pliable managers. The easy response, however, is to blame the money, not the people: a response that always has a political chime. Journalism is overly represented in the hand-wringing, capitalism-is-awful school of thought, and so the default position of many is that money and success are bad things. It is true, of course, that money changes sport and has changed English football beyond recognition. The benefits are there to see and enjoy every week of the season. New stadiums have replaced old; better players gravitate to the Premier league because of its wealth and popularity; television has brought coverage of the game to new highs (even if the quality of analysis can be awful). Players can earn staggering sums of money while their careers last, but there should be no sense of outrage that players, rather than directors or owners, should enjoy (even waste) the money that their talents earn. Money has been good for football, good for the players and good for the fans, though it is not popular to admit it. Easier to pretend that were it not for the money players would be earning their fortunes in alternative careers as stockbrokers, property developers or consultant doctors than to accept that footballers would always be footballers. They play because they can, because they are good and because they like it. Money corrupts and debases sport, but only because it is allowed to Sport is a meritocracy: if you are good enough, you can succeed. It shouts out that we are not all the same, that some individuals are supremely gifted and others mere plodders, and it offers hope to any child with the capacity to dream and the determination to work. The challenge for the Premiership, and for all sports, is to ensure that the money that comes into the game is used to enhance it, not demean or distort it. Barnes and others argue that money has increased the level of dishonesty, yet now more than ever before the means exist to reduce, if not eradicate, dishonesty on the field. Footballers who cheat, whether by diving to win a penalty or by faking injury to get a rival player cautioned or dismissed, could easily be punished after the event by video evidence. Harsh retribution for the player and his team - the loss of points and a heavy fine - would quickly put an end to the histrionics. Off the field a simple salary cap on Premier league clubs - restricting the total salary bill in any club to a standard maximum - would reward astute coaches and punish excess. Stringently enforced rules on transfers would prevent situations like the current Tevez dispute and, if allied to equally stringent requirements for transparency in all dealings, would reduce the need for the boys in blue to raid football clubs during the pre-season. Money is not the root of the Premiership's problems and it does not destroy sport. The real villains are those at the top of sport who so consistently fail to provide the leadership that is required, who lack the courage or desire to enforce high standards and who create an environment in which corruption festers. Money corrupts and debases sport, but only because it is allowed to. 
