sport football
{ Eamonn Sweeney 
    December 20 2014 08:40 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/bill-oherlihys-farewell-was-more-memorable-than-hurling-final-smells-like-bullst-30852978.html }
Who will ever forget the greatest achievement in Irish sport this year? How we huddled around our TV sets as the country came to a standstill, biting our nails as the suspense became too much until we finally united in a rapturous collective outburst of joy. For weeks afterwards the triumph was the talk of sports fans all over Ireland. Yes, who'll ever forget Katie Taylor's fifth world title victory against . . . OK, no cheating. Who was her opponent? Where did she come from? Where did the finals take place? How did the judges score the bout? If you got it, well done. And if you didn't, don't worry because you're in the majority. It wasn't really the most memorable moment in Irish sport last year at all, was it? But, according to the PSG Sponsorship Sports Sentiment Index poll last week, 30 per cent of Irish people believed it was. The second greatest achievement, Ireland's victory in the Six Nations, could only command 18 per cent, while Rory McIlroy's victories in the British Open and USPGA Championships were way back on eight per cent. And we're giving out about him only coming second in the BBC Sports Personality of the Year poll. Taylor's world title was also apparently the most 'iconic' (whatever that means) Irish sporting moment of the year. 'Iconic' seems to be, in this poll though not in any dictionary, the same thing as memorable, so according to the SSI Bill O'Herlihy's final programme on RTÉ was more memorable/iconic for Irish people than either the All-Ireland hurling or football deciders or, for that matter, anything McIlroy did this year. I'm afraid I'll have to declare a certain scepticism about figures which appear to show that the Irish sporting public passed more heed in 2014 on a broadcaster's farewell than the All-Ireland hurling final. This smells like one bullshit survey. So why bother mentioning it at all? Well, it actually garnered quite a few headlines, and prompted The Irish Times to publish a well-meaning piece of flannel about how the survey was an important indicator of increased respect for Irish sportswomen. Though, of course, you'll be able to gauge the extent of that paper's, or any paper's, belief in the SSI by checking out the column inches accorded to women's boxing and women's rugby next year compared to those devoted to golf, Gaelic football and hurling. We're always diminished when nonsense is peddled as truth, particularly when people make a cynical show of believing in it. So the first thing to do is to examine whether, setting aside the merits of Katie Taylor's achievement for the moment, the sporting public actually did regard it as the greatest/most memorable/most iconic sporting moment of the year. For one thing how many of them actually saw it happen? I'd wager very few because the final in question was screened at 6.0 in the morning on TG4, RTÉ having had no inclination to pick up the rights for women's boxing. So chances are that most people surveyed only found out Katie Taylor had won the title later on when they heard it on the news or read it in the following day's papers. Which deals the old 'iconic' claim a bit of a death blow. You need to see an icon, not just hear about it. I may have my differences with RTÉ but they don't let TV rights go out of sheer perversity. They wouldn't have screened the Katie Taylor fight because they'd have known the audience would have been small. It certainly wouldn't have been anything like the 914,000 viewers who watched the Ireland-France game in Paris, the 826,000 viewers who watched the All-Ireland football final or the 784,000 who watched the All-Ireland hurling final. So the survey shows a disjunction between what people claim they respect and what they actually watch. In reality for most people it won't be a fight they never actually saw which sticks in their mind when they think about sport in 2014, it'll be the Six Nations, the All-Irelands, Cheltenham, Ireland's game away to Germany and McIlroy's thrilling victories in Liverpool and Valhalla. How can you remember something you didn't actually see happening? You could argue that Katie Taylor deserves the same kind of following as the big rugby and GAA matches. And she got it back in the 2012 Olympics when 1.1 million people watched her gold medal fight. But since then she's largely been out of sight and out of mind, so much so that her understandably frustrated father and coach, Pete, asked RTÉ to stop showing her as part of the TV Licence campaign when they won't even cover her fights anymore. If a Katie Taylor victory was really as 'iconic' as Ireland winning the Six Nations, Pete, and fans of women's boxing in general, wouldn't have to worry. RTÉ would be forking out big money to the sport and Katie Taylor would be boxing in big shows in front of full houses at Croke Park. I wish this were so but it's not. PSG are a sponsorship and PR agency and I'm reluctant to cast doubt on the polling methodology employed. So that could only mean that the people surveyed told little white lies. Or that quite a few of them were people who haven't an ounce of interest in sport but remember the hype about Katie Taylor round the time of the Olympics and thought they might as well put down her name. So a fight shown to a small audience on TG4, obviously wasn't the 'iconic' moment of the year. But was it, lack of exposure notwithstanding, the greatest achievement in Irish sport? Afraid the answer is no there too. I have the height of respect for Katie Taylor and have praised her at length in this column but Rory McIlroy is also world number one in his sport, a sport which happens to be far more competitive than women's amateur boxing. In fact, not only is it more difficult to win a men's golf Major than it is to win a women's world amateur boxing title, it's probably more difficult to win a women's golf Major as well. That's why one of the most overlooked achievements of the year was that of Antrim golfer Stephanie Meadow in finishing third in the US Open shortly after turning professional. Should she win a Major next year that will be a bigger achievement than that of Katie Taylor or the Irish women's rugby team because the competition will have been fiercer. And all that stuff about Katie Taylor's high rating in the poll indicating some kind of breakthrough for Irish women's sport is just so much waffle. Do you know who's won the RTé Sports Personality of the Year award more times than anyone else? Sonia O'Sullivan, whose five triumphs were richly deserved. O'Sullivan only won one world track title, along with two world cross-country titles and three European golds, but she was probably the finest sporting performer, male or female, ever produced by this country. Her 5,000m world title-winning run in Gothenburg in 1995 was enormously significant because it came in a sport which is perhaps the most competitive of them all. Women's amateur boxing is, on the other hand, in its infancy by comparison. There's nothing Katie Taylor can do about this. I suspect myself that no matter what the competition was like she would still prevail by virtue of her extraordinary talent. And that to a degree she suffers at the box office because like Wladimir Klitschko, she's so superior to all opposition that her triumphs seem predictable. She is wonderful but there is no point claiming that she's superior to Sonia O'Sullivan or that this year's world title victory was a greater achievement than McIlroy's double in the Majors. And there's no point either in middle-aged men writing sucky and condescending articles claiming that the Cork women's football team are the best in Irish sport and should get the Team of the Year award. Their achievement is less than that of the Irish men's rugby team because of the level of competition against them. Simple as that. To imply otherwise is to suggest that women are in need of some kind of Affirmative Action at awards time, which is patent nonsense when you consider that Sonia O'Sullivan won more RTé Personality of the Year gongs than Roy Keane, Brian O'Driscoll, Seán Kelly and Barry McGuigan put together. The problem for women's sport is that it receives too much lip service and not enough practical support. It's easy to vote for Stephanie Roche or to declare your outrage at supposed sexism directed at the Irish women's rugby team but both Roche and the rugby players will be playing in front of pitiful crowds next season as usual. The Katie Taylor vote is the same kind of lip service writ large. 'Iconic'? Bah, humbug. It's a long time since I've seen a sports documentary as entertaining as Bulleyes and Beer: When Darts Hit Britain which aired on BBC4 last week as part of the Timeshift history strand. Part of its charm was that it captured just how far darts had to travel before becoming a staple of the TV schedules. Just before its broadcasting breakthrough in the mid-1970s, television exposure for darts was largely limited to an ITV show called Indoor League which it shared with the likes of table football, shove ha'penny and arm wrestling. The show was presented by the great England bowler Fred Trueman and produced by a young man named Sid Waddell. That darts moved out of the pub game ghetto owed a lot to the game's first charismatic star, a five foot two lad from the Rhondda valley in Wales named Alan Evans who in 1972 brought a horde of leek-waving fans to the News of the World Championship final at the Alexandra Palace in London. You got a flavour of Evans' feisty character from a clip where he told a, for once, speechless Eric Bristow live on camera that he enjoyed playing him because he was easy to beat. Evans' friend and countryman Leighton Rees became the game's first world champion in 1978 but it was the clash of Bristow and his fellow Londoner Bobby George in the 1980 final which saw the sport achieve publicity lift-off. Bristow, as darts fan Martin Amis put it in the documentary, was the "king of the rabble rousers," and he probably did more than anyone to make the game a TV hit. Apart that is from the aforementioned Waddell who turned to commentary and became the voice of the game, his rare combination of earthiness and intelligence probably having something to do with his status as a coal miner's son who won a scholarship to Cambridge. The apotheosis of darts arrived in 1983 when Bristow lost the final to Keith Deller, an utterly unknown qualifier whose boyish good looks gave the lie to the stereotypical image of a darts player. Nine million people watched what was darts' equivalent to the Davis-Taylor snooker final, even down to the outsider bottling his first chance to win before coming through in the end. The game went into decline at the tail end of the '80s and there is a nice symmetry in the fact that darts was revived in large part by Bristow's protégé Phil Taylor, whose first world title in 1990 came against the man who'd set him on the road to success. There have been another 15 world titles since then for the man from the Potteries and his sheer excellence has won him recognition and respect even among people who still think of darts as being more a pub game than a sport. They're wrong of course. Darts at the top level is a reliable provider of drama, heartbreak, courageous comebacks and edge-of-the-seat finishes; all the stuff which makes up essential sports viewing. The world championships began on Thursday and from now till January 4 will keep the faithful enraptured. And this year is particularly fascinating. Taylor looked to be in decline when he was knocked out of last year's championship in the second round by rank outsider Michael Smith and was supplanted as world number one by Holland's Michael van Gerwen, who became the youngest ever title winner at the age of 24. Van Gerwen is a prodigious talent who many people think has the ability to dominate the sport but to really prove himself he probably needs to defeat Taylor in the final. Taylor has a couple of big wins over Van Gerwen already this season and a showdown between the two could be one of the great games in the sport's history. The winner will take home a cool £250,000. It's a far cry from sharing air time with arm wrestling. backpage@independent.ie Sunday Indo Sport 
