sport football
{  
    July 12 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/anyone-for-a-bit-of-foreplay-26233224.html }
THE ancient Greeks were more pragmatic about the whole sporting thing. At  the Olympic games, it was compulsory for all participants to compete in the nude, so that the entertainment value of the games was extended to a visual feast of talent. (And not just of the athletic kind.) However, despite their widespread appeal, the lure of the sport-playing sex icons never really held me in its grip. In school, while friends with fervent adolescent crushes waxed lyrical about the appeal of Mark Owen and Ryan Giggs, I was left cold. At that age, I prefered tortured artists and boyish-looking actors to sports stars, so I plastered my walls with posters of Brad Pitt and Kurt Cobain instead. A few years later, when Henmania started to take hold and the whole world went crazy over David Beckham, once again I just didn't get it. I always suspected that the key to these lads' appeal had more to do with to their sporting prowess than any other personal attributes they might possess. The ability to excel physically, plus the promise of a super-toned bod, has a way of elevating mere mortals into irresistible sex gods and goddesses. How else can you explain the footballer wives phenomenon, where even the most average-looking footballer is able to bag a supermodel lookalike? Well, not me: from the famous glossy locks of David Ginola, to the much-monitored hairstyle of David Beckham, I was left unmoved . . . or at least, that was, until the little cropped head of Roy Keane bobbed into my view around this time last year. It took me a while to catch on to Roy's elusive appeal. For several years, I knew who he was without feeling any particular draw. But when his media profile went through the roof just over a year ago, I suddenly sat up and took notice. Ironically, it was the one sports player who seemed to revile the idea of being a sex symbol who was the most appealing to me. Sure, he's got the chiselled looks and the powerful legs, but while his fellow stars are busy preening and posing, the only beauty that Roy cares about is that of the game. And that's exactly what makes him so deliciously tasty. Julia Molony Champions of the celebrity game CRISPS, car insurance and clothes: today's sports stars are being used to promote the most diverse range of products imaginable. It's not hard to see why, as some sports just scream sexuality. I myself have always been partial to the sight of a scrum or a fit man running around a football pitch. And for the men there are the tennis stars and volleyball players. Being on top of their game isn't a necessary requirement: the sound of a woman grunting and moaning on a tennis court whilst scantily clad in her whites is enough to entice most men to watch Wimbledon. Sports stars have always been celebrities, even before the huge increases in wages in certain sports. George Best was an icon before the Premiership even came into existence. However, never before has the crossover been so blurry. Nowadays, it is sometimes hard to distinguish sports stars from Hollywood stars. Some have even ventured on to the silver screen themselves. When it was reported that David Beckham undertook a screen test whilst in the US recently, it was hardly a surprise to anyone: rather, it was reflective of the evolution of the life surrounding the sport. Many sports stars have come under fire for being involved in projects outside their field. But good health and fitness have always been two of the most attractive qualities in men and women. We might be sceptical about footballers' ability to design clothes but the clothes they wear are what young boys want to be seen in. And as for a tennis player starring in a music video, well what young woman wouldn't take that opportunity? However the life of a sports star isn't all glamour and showbiz parties. A select few prefer to shun the glitzy lifestyle. There are also those who fell into the trap and enjoyed the fame too much: the associated lifestyle has been the downfall of many footballers. Today, many young boys and girls want to become sports stars not for the thrill of winning or playing the sport, but because of the showbiz life that comes with it. It's useful for every such dreamer to remember that for every David Beckham there are a hundred non-league players, who'll never get closer to the showbiz pages than when they eat their fish and chips off them. Emma Blain Sometimes loving sport just ain't enough When did sport turn into an exercise in glamour? Today, it would be hard to imagine a game free from sponsorship and branding. And it is not enough to be talented at a sport: you must also succumb to the commercial fashion and media machines. Australian tennis player Mark Philippoussis cannot bear doing interviews but each time he finished a match at this year's Wimbledon, he was escorted immediately behind Centre Court to be bombarded with questions.It is not enough for him to be an excellent tennis player; it is his duty to share all with the hungry media. Sports personalities are now expected to be celebrities, with little consideration for the fact that they may just want to be noted for their talents and nothing else. Of course, there are those sports personalities who adore the limelight. David Beckham obviously thrives on it. Setting fashion trends is one of his greatest passions. Each new haircut gets full coverage in every single newspaper. A mundane topic of conversation indeed, but still I find myself enthralled by the Beckhams, who epitomize sport and glamour combined. But could too much glamour in sport be dangerous? There were concerns recently for the Slovakian tennis player Daniela Hantuchova. The 5ft 11 beauty was losing weight dramatically as she tried to keep on top of the pressures of modelling, as well as playing professional tennis. Can the two go hand in hand? Anna Kournikova's tennis seems to have suffered as a result of her modelling career: she is no longer seeded in the ladies Top 10. As I browsed through websites dedicated to the Russian star, it was hard to actually get any information on her. Each time I accessed a site, I was directed to pornography sites with young Kournikova lookalikes. Other tennis stars are also venturing outside the world of sport. Venus Williams's tennis outfit, designed by New York fashion designer Diane Von Furstenberg, not only competed for glory on the court but also in the world of fashion. Her sister Serena has recently taken up acting and intends to pursue it seriously. But can these stars maintain success in a sports career while at the same time dealing with the pressure of the world of fashion and glamour? Siobhan O'Connor The agony behind the ecstasy TONED and tanned, young and beautiful, tennis players not only look a million dollars, they're said to have that kind of money too. They are today's gods: perfect examples of a healthy, sporty way of life, admired and envied by the rest of us mere mortals. They can be spotted either wearing that bright-white, sexy tennis gear or showing off their sculpted bodies in glamorous frocks at celebrity parties. Usually their names are romantically linked to those of other famous people: actors, pop stars or models. "Is it because celebrities attract celebrities?" we ask ourselves. "Is it because they want to be sure that they're loved for themselves and not for their money? Or is it because, with their hectic schedules, they don't have time to socialise outside those 'must-go-to-keep-your-name-on-the-A-list' parties?" Speaking about hectic schedules, nobody ever seems to remember that behind all that glamour and Santa Monica mansions purchasing there's a huge amount of work, and an iron determination and discipline, not to mention years and years of focusing on training and keeping fit, with little or no time for partying or just hanging around with friends. Many sports stars didn't have any time to spend on the playground as children, having to divide their hours strictly between school and training. While other kids were out playing or throwing tantrums over toys, the tennis kids had to grow up faster and to be able to focus on their mission: to become the best. For the ones who have succeeded after all that effort, there's one thing to say: they deserve every minute of the glamorous lifestyle they seem to have. They've earned it. And they've shown the rest of us how that one per cent of talent and 99 per cent of hard work can make dreams come true. Cristina Petrar Sporting and cavorting DOES luscious sex-appeal boost success within the worlds of tennis, football, racing and other sports? Do sex and sport go hand in hand, a match made in heaven? Take racing in Monaco for example: an ample opportunity for Michael Schumacher wannabes to lure the ladies; just your average Helena Christensens or Heidi Klums of course. Elite social circles tend to revolve in close proximity to money, sex and/in fast cars: all are part and parcel, you understand. Or take Anna Kournikova. Male hearts are set aflutter each time the raunchy Russian struts onto the courts, signature baby blonde plait complementing her toned, sun-kissed body which is encased in seductive tennis gear. This perfect combination has won over many major labels such as Berlei, Adidas and Gossard ("Only the balls should bounce": that ring any bells?), all of which she modelled for. Miss Kournikova has also won the heart of fiance sultry singer Enrique Iglesias: eat your heart out boys and girls! In a mini-questionnaire, I discovered without much surprise that we favour Anna over the brilliant Williams duo, despite their phenomenal success. One may raise a skeptical eyebrow and question in a tone drenched with sarcasm: "Was the survey carried out exclusively amongst salivating teenage boys?" No. Guys and gals agree that watching Kournikova is far more exciting and alluring than watching Serena and Venus. The last few years have been an action-packed roller-coaster ride for Anna, including events such as the glamorous Trilogy Fashion Show 2002, where she sashayed down the catwalk, causing much confusion among paparazzi, glitterati, celebs, sport icons and fans worldwide: Anna Kournikova - supermodel or tennis pro? Other sexy sports names that spring to mind are the glossy-haired coffee-drinking David Ginola, courtesy of L'Oreal and Carte Noir, who sends shivers down the spines of our female nation (French accent does it all I think), and the legendary Georgie Best aka The Magnificent Number 7, who worked his magical charms on the ladies in his prime during the late Seventies. At the end of the day, with stars of both sports and movies, celebrity status and the whirlwind social life is a powerful aphrodisiac. Erica Harvey Kridichart 
