sport football
{  
    February 01 2013 12:55 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/sport/stars-of-the-past-29031982.html }
MICK CULLEN (INSURGENTS AND GOH) Mick Cullen from J.K.L. Place in New Ross was a most reliable, courageous and determined defender, first with the Insurgents and later Geraldine O'Hanrahans. He played with the former from 1956 to 1959. The club disbanded in 1960 and Mick then started playing with Geraldine O'Hanrahans. He played the majority of his hurling in the full-back line, especially at left corner-back. His tenacious tackling, his never-say-die attitude, his commitment and his ability to read situations when danger threatened his territory were masterly. In close exchanges around his goal area he repeatedly came out with the ball in his possession to get in a telling clearance. His finest hour in club colours was for Geraldine O'Hanrahans versus Bennettsbridge in a tournament game in the early '60s. At left corner-back he gave a sparkling display and was the master tactician. He covered his side of defence with close marking, first-time ground hurling and never allowed his opponent any freedom of movement. Mick was born in 1934 and was educated at St. Michael's N.S., New Ross. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe who was gifted in both codes. Tom Neville (Geraldine O'Hanrahans) was also a brilliant dual player. Mick played Juvenile hurling and football with Geraldine O'Hanrahans. One of the most exciting games that he played in was the clash between Insurgents and Camross in the 1956 New Ross District Junior hurling semi-final, Camross winning by 5-6 to 4-2 after a replay. His two brothers, Tom and Ned, and his son, Paul, all played with the Geraldine O'Hanrahans. His late father, Pat, was another who played the game with pride. Mick spent a short time in the States in 1962. The four hurlers he selects as the best he has seen playing with Geraldine O'Hanrahans were the late Martin Lyng, Tom Neville, Jimmy O'Brien and Ned Colfer. The four hurlers he selects as the most dificult that he played on in his career were Dick Murphy (Faythe Harriers), the late Fintan Doyle (Camross), the late Jim Dyce ( Camross) and Jimmy Purcell (Clongeen). The two players he selects as the best he has seen in hurling in Ireland were the late Bobby Rackard and Henry Shefflin. The two players he selects as the best he has seen in hurling in Wexford were the late Bobby Rackard and Ned Wheeler. He won no medals during his career but he did enjoy playing the game and he was an outstanding footballer with Insurgents and Geraldine O'Hanrahans. The best game of hurling he has seen in Wexford was Geraldine O'Hanrahans versus Fethard in the 1980 Co. Junior 'B' game. His favourite position when playing hurling was corner-back. Two of the best goalies he has seen in hurling over the years were Damien Fitzhenry (Wexford) and Brendan Cummins (Tipperary), and the greatest overhead striker he has seen in hurling was Ned Wheeler. Of the present-day hurlers he selects all Kilkenny players as the best - Tommy Walsh, Henry Shefflin and Richie Power. The best club side he has seen in hurling in Wexford was Buffers Alley in the '70s and '80s. MICK HARPUR (BANNOW-BALLYMITTY) One of Bannow-Ballymitty's most dependable defenders during the '60s, '70s and well into the '80s was the likeable Mick Harpur. During his football career he was an impassable rampart whether he was playing in the No. 4 or No. 6 jersey. He was an excellent marker and very strong and could move quickly. His determination, his will to win and his courage stood to him in good stead over two and a half decades. Mick, who resides at Lacken a few miles from Duncormick, had a telepathic understanding with the rest of his defenders. His willingness to go through fire and water for his beloved Bannow-Ballymitty club was praiseworthy. He was born in 1941 and was educated at Duncormick N.S. and Bridgetown V.S. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. He made his debut with the club at adult level in 1961 and finished in 1988. He won one Co. Junior football medal with St. Mary's (Bannow) in 1969 and one Co. Intermediate medal with Bannow-Ballymitty in 1975. Mick was the club Secretary for 15 years and a lifelong committee member. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Joe Foley (Ballyhogue). Mick's three brothers - Jack, Leo and Matty - also played the game with pride. The two best footballers he has seen in Ireland over the years were Mick O'Connell (Kerry) and Seán O'Neill (Down), and in Wexford - Mick Carty (Castletown) and Louis Rafter (Duffry Rovers). The best game of football he has seen in Wexford was Castletown versus Ballyhogue in the Co. Senior final drawn game in 1965. He played Juvenile football with Bannow, St. Anne's in 1957 and Minor football with Ballymitty/Taghmon in 1958 and 1959. The best dual player he has seen in Ireland was the late Des Foley (Dublin). The best individual display he has seen at club level was by Mick Carty (Castletown) in several games for his club. The six footballers he would select as the best he has seen playing with BannowBallymitty were Watty French, Fintan Campbell, Pat Neville, Rich Neville, Francis Cullen and Paddy Bennett. The three footballers he would select as the most difficult that he has played on with his club were Mickel Furlong (Taghmon), James McDonald (Ramsgrange) and Mick Millar (Starlights). The most exciting game of football that he played in was the Junior championship final in 1969 with St. Mary's (Bannow). The three best footballers he has seen in Ireland in the last ten years were Colm Cooper (Kerry), Ciarán McDonald (Mayo) and Brian Dooher (Tyrone). The three best footballers he has seen in Wexford in the last ten years were Matty Forde (Kilanerin), Leigh O'Brien (Horeswood) and Redmond Barry (St. Anne's). The greatest goalkeeper he has seen in football was Martin Furlong (Offaly). The greatest club team he has seen in Wexford football was Duffry Rovers. His finest hour in the Bannow-Ballymitty colours was with St. Mary's (Bannow) in the 1969 Co. Junior football final. At corner-back he excelled with his superb vision, his composure, his clever attributies and his long deliveries making him a star on this occasion. MICK WICKHAM (DAVIDSTOWN-C'CUDDY) One of Davidstown-Courtnacuddy's most consistent dual players over the years was Mick Wickham. In both hurling and football he excelled in a number of positions. His wholehearted, energetic endeavour and his non-stop running were features of his play. Whether in the air or on the ground, he handled the ball with the utmost efficiency. He was python-swift in his running and clever in his movements. His concentration was brilliant and his composure in the most hectic struggles stamped him out as a player who excelled at both games. Mick had great anticipation and was always very strong and assured. He was born in 1941 and was educated at Davidstown N.S. and Enniscorthy C.B.S. His boyhood hero was Nickey Rackard R.I.P. His brother, Tony, received a Seana Ghael award in 2010. Another two brothers, Jimmy and Jackser, were also excellent players. Mick played Juvenile and Minor hurling with Davidstown in the late '50s. The greatest goalie he has seen in football was Paddy Cullen (Dublin). The best dual players he has seen were Des Foley R.I.P. (Dublin) and Phil Wilson. Liam Kehoe (Davidstown-Courtnacuddy) was another brilliant player in both hurling and football. The three greatest footballers he has ever seen were Jack O'Shea, Mick O'Connell and Brian Mullins. In Wexford, Andy Merrigan R.I.P., Joe Foley and Matty Forde were superstars. Mick first played adult football with Davidstown-Courtnacuddy in 1969 and finished up in 1980. He was a selector and committee member also with the club. One of his finest hours playing football with his club was versus the Starlights in the 1972 championship. He played a blinder that day and covered himself in glory. The four footballers he would select as the best he has seen playing with Davidstown-Courtnacuddy were Ned Frayne, Willie Frayne, Phil Kearns and Jimmy Wickham. The best game of football he has seen was Castletown against Ballyhogue in the 1965 Co. final drawn game. The Rathnure Senior hurling team in the early '70s was the best team he has seen playing in Wexford. He won two Enniscorthy District Intermediate hurling medals in 1978 and 1979. He won three Intermediate Enniscorthy District final medals in football in 1970, 1971 and 1972. Some of the best and most exciting games of hurling he has seen over the years were between St. Bennan's and Hollow Rangers in the late 1950s. Of the present-day footballers he selects Colm Cooper of Kerry, Michael Murphy of Donegal and Alan Brogan (Dublin) as the ones that impressed him the most. In hurling, Joe Canning of Galway and Henry Shefflin of Kilkenny are superstars. MICKEY BERNS (GOREY WOLFE TONES) From 1958 to 1969 Mickey Berns from Eire Street in Gorey town was a livewire and elusive forward for the Gorey Wolfe Tones in hurling and the Gorey Blues in football. He started his career playing both codes with the Young Emmets, Juvenile in 1954 and 1955 and Minor in 1956 and 1957. He was born in 1939 and was educated at Gorey C.B.S. His boyhood hero was the late Jim English. Mickey normally played in a forward position where his dashing style and speedy movements made many a headache for the opposing defender. In every game he played in he strove valiantly and courageously to keep his team in the limelight. Most times he was fighting a losing battle as the teams in the District at that time were quite good, especially in hurling. Every individual played his heart out for the club, but most times that effort was to no avail. However, he enjoyed every game, win or lose. His finest game playing with the Gorey Wolfe Tones was versus Craanford in the 1963 District Junior championship. Although his side was hammered by a good St. Brendan's team, Mickey played his heart out at midfield. Whenever he tried hard to keep a supply of balls to his forwards the winners' defence was much too strong. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was the late Nickey Rackard. Another fine dual player was Oliver Cullen. The best underage hurler he has seen in Gorey was Oliver Gough and in football Bill Owley. The best individual display he has seen in the Gorey District was given by the late Jimmy Hobbs for the Wolfe Tones versus Ballygarrett in the 1955 Junior District hurling final. He never won a medal in his career, but that didn't bother Mickey as he got so much enjoyment in playing the game. But it would have been nice to have something to show at the end of your day. CONTINUED OPPOSITE MICKEY SOMERS (GERALDINE O'HANRAHANS) Mickey Somers was a staunch and reliable goalkeeper and full-back in both hurling and football for his club, Geraldine O'Hanrahans. He started his hurling career with the club in 1956, losing the Intermediate final to the Faythe Harriers, and his last game in Wexford was versus Faythe Harriers in the 1965 Senior hurling championship second round, again losing out playing in goal. From his debut until his retirement he normally played full-back where he engaged with some of the best full-forwards in the county. Mickey was never overawed by any opponent that he came in contact with and he excelled in the bustle and close exchanges that took place around the goal area. After hurling so brilliantly over the years for his team, it was a big disappointment that he had to miss their great win in 1966 versus Shamrocks after a replay. Mickey was on business in the States - hence his absence for the big occasion and it was a severe blow. He was educated at New Ross C.B.S. His boyhood hero was Jim English R.I.P. His finest hour in the Geraldine O'Hanrahans colours was versus the Faythe Harriers in the 1962 Co. Senior hurling final. He was outstanding in this encounter playing at full-back. He cleared ball after ball and was very pleased with his overall performance. He was able to shadow his opponent and keep him in a position where he could do very little. Mickey was very strong, very sure and a great man to clear a ball with distance. When playing in goal the three forwards that were deadly around the goal area were Oliver McGrath, Tim Flood and Marks Redmond from the Shamrocks. He was a substitute on the Wexford Junior hurling team in 1958, losing to Kilkenny, and a substitute on the Wexford Junior football team which lost to Dublin in 1959. His career after leaving Wexford was with Na Fianna (Dublin), Junior Corn Ceitinn winners (1976), Junior League winners (1976), Senior hurling league winners (1977) and Senior hurling championship winners (1977). He first played hurling with Geraldine O'Hanrahans in 1956 at adult level and last played for them in 1965. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe. He had three brothers that also played - Seán, Seamus R.I.P. and Paddy R.I.P. The four hurlers he selects as the best he has seen playing with Geraldine O'Hanrahans were Tom Neville, Jimmy O'Brien, Ned Colfer and Martin Lyng R.I.P. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with Geraldine O'Hanrahans were Ned Wheeler, Tim Flood, Oliver McGrath and James Kent R.I.P. (Adamstown). The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen in Ireland were Ollie Walsh R.I.P. and Bobby Rackard R.I.P. He won numerous medals during his career: one Junior football medal (1963), two Senior medals versus Bennettsbridge (tournaments), two C.B.S. league medals, and his four medals with Na Fianna in Dublin. The most exciting game of hurling that he played in was the Senior game versus Faythe Harriers playing on Ned Wheeler. His favourite position when playing was full-back. The best club team he has seen in hurling was the Rathnure team which won four-in-a-row in the early '70s. MOSIE MORRISSEY (GUSSERANE) Mosie Morrissey, who now resides in Co. Kildare, was for 15 years one of Gusserane O'Rahilly's finest dual players. He was a man who loved playing sports and watching Gaelic games. Although living many miles from Wexford, he never missed a game of importance in the county. A gentleman on and off the field, Mosie was tall and was exceptionally fast, and when he gained possession he was a difficult opponent to dispossess. He demolished the opposition with his high fielding and powerful upper body strength. Although strong and powerful, he never manhandled an opponent to gain him possession of the ball. He played Juvenile and Minor in both codes - football for Gusserane and hurling for Cushinstown. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe. He was also his boyhood hero. Mosie's finest hour playing with Gusserance was versus St. Anne's in the second replay of the 1965 Co. Junior football semifinal. At midfield he was masterly, playing with zest and winning everything around centrefield. His unlimited stamina and his wholehearted endeavour made him a warm favourite with his many followers. He was like a machine on two legs. His energetic style and his intelligent brain outsmarted all and sundry. He was born in 1940 and was educated at Gusserane N.S. and St. Peter's College. He played with St. Peter's in both hurling and football in 1961. He was a member of the Wexford Junior football panel that did so well in the 1963 series. The two finest footballers he has seen in Ireland were Mick O'Connell and Willie Bryan (Offaly). From Wexford, Paddy Kehoe and Matty Forde were the stars. Mosie played for many years with the New Ross District in the Senior hurling championship. He first played football with Gusserane in 1960 and last played with them in 1975, and most of that was at Senior level. He was also on the Wexford Minor football panel. The four footballers he selects as the best he has seen playing with Gusserane were Paddy Kehoe, John Joe Culleton R.I.P., Larry Larkin and Philip Wallace. The four footballers he selects as the most difficult that he played on while with Gusserane were Mick Foley (Ballyhogue), Andy Merrigan R.I.P. (Castletown), Andy English and Paddy Meyler (Kilmore). He played Minor football with Wexford in 1960, losing to Kildare. He played Intermediate hurling as a substitute in 1965. He was on the Wexford panel for a number of years in football. He was selected on the Intermediate hurling and Junior football teams on the same day to play Kildare in football and Laois in hurling, playing centrefield on both teams in Carlow in 1972. He won one Senior football medal with Gusserane (1975), one Junior football medal with Gusserane (1965), five All-Ireland Garda hurling medals in a row with Dublin Garda, playing centrefield on all those teams. He played on Frank Cummins in one final and on Gus Lohan in another final. He also played on the Garda-Army hurling teams versus the Universities. In the early years he played hurling with Gusserane and around 1968 he transferred to Rathgarogue-Cushinstown for hurling only. He always played his football with Gusserane. NICK O'CALLAGHAN (INSURGENTS AND GOH) Nick O'Callaghan, who resides in Charleton Hill, New Ross, was for almost 15 years one of the top forwards in club hurling in the New Ross District championship. A tall and powerfully-built player, he was a free-scoring and highly-talented full-forward. Although he played in other positions in the forward line, it was at full-forward that he really excelled. His physique allowed him to win lots of possession around the goal area, and when he got within scoring range he usually got his name on the scoresheet. For such a man with his stature, his pace and control were top class and when he was on song his opponent found it hard to keep him in check. He started playing Junior hurling in 1955 with the New Ross Insurgents and played with them for a few years. Then he joined up with the Geraldine O'Hanrahans in 1958 and continued to play with them until he retired in 1970. His boyhood hero was the late Nickey Rackard. The best dual player he has seen in Wexford was Paddy Kehoe. One of his finest hours playing with the Geraldine O'Hanrahans was versus the Shamrocks in the 1967 Co. Intermediate hurling semifinal when he registered four goals and four points, all from play. He proved a big problem for the Shamrocks defence and was unlucky not to have scored more during the hour and not to have bagged another couple of goals given that he was in such good form. He was resolute, competent, determined, mobile and strong. He played Juvenile hurling and football with the Insurgents in 1951 and 1952. He was born in 1936 and was educated at Michael St. N.S. and New Ross C.B.S. He started playing with Geraldine O'Hanrahans in 1958 and continued with them until he retired in 1970. He played in the Factory League well into his mid-40s. He played Minor hurling and football with Geraldine O'Hanrahans in 1953 and 1954. He had one brother, James, who also played. The best individual display he has seen at club level was by Jimmy O'Brien in the 1966 Geraldine O'Hanrahans win versus the Shamrocks in the county final replay. The three hurlers he would select as the best he has seen playing with Geraldine O'Hanrahans were Mick Morrissey R.I.P., Tom Neville and Martin Lyng R.I.P. The two hurlers he selects as the best he has seen playing with Insurgents were John Wall R.I.P. and John Maddock R.I.P. The four hurlers he selects as the most difficult he played on while with Geraldine O'Hanrahans were Jim Dyce R.I.P. (Camross), Billy Rackard R.I.P., Jim Wickham (Adamstown) and Joe English (Rathnure). The two hurlers he would select as the best he has seen in Ireland were Tony Wall (Tipperary) and Eddie Keher (Kilkenny). The two hurlers he would select as the best he has seen in Wexford were Bobby Rackard R.I.P. and Tim Flood. His dad, Jim O'Callaghan R.I.P., played with O'Hanrahans in the '20s. Nick won one Co. Special Junior hurling championship versus Davidstown/Ballyhogue in 1967. The most exciting game of hurling that he played in was in 1956 with Insurgents versus Camross in the District semi-final which was a drawn game of 3-1 each. He was one of the top footballers in New Ross, playing at midfield or centre halfforward where his height and strength made many an opponent obsolete. NOEL MATTHEWS (STARLIGHTS) Noel Matthews, originally from Navan in Co. Meath and now residing in Templescoby a few miles from Enniscorthy, was in his playing days a tower of strength in his role as a full-back with the Starlights. As a member of An Garda Síochána he arrived in Enniscorthy in the mid-'60s and it wasn't long after that he became a regular with the famous Enniscorthy club. He was a full-back in the same mould as the great Noel Tierney of Galway fame, masterly in the air, outjumping opponents by inches and firmly grasping the ball with glue-like hands. His long, raking clearances were a tremendous help to his teammates. With his upper body strength he was able to brush aside opponents with ease. However, he played every game fair and clean and he loved his football as he loved to win. Noel was one of the most likeable individuals that you could meet on and off the field. He always played the game with courage, guile, commitment and grandeur and was a model of consistency in his general play. He was also a top referee in the '70s and officiated at numerous Co. finals including both Senior finals in 1974. He was born in 1943 and was educated at Navan Primary School and St. Patrick's (Navan). His boyhood hero was Paddy O'Brien (Meath), one of the greatest full-backs he has ever seen. The two best dual players he has seen in Wexford were Oliver Cullen (Castletown and Liam Mellows) and Martin Quigley (Rathnure). One of the best goalies he has seen in football was Martin Furlong (Offaly). The four Starlights footballers he selects as the best he has seen playing with the club were Harry O'Connor R.I.P., Lar Rigley, Ger Collins and Michael Maher. The four best footballers he has seen in Ireland were Mick O'Connell (Kerry), Jack O'Shea (Kerry), Noel Tierney (Galway) and Peter McDermott (Meath). In his home county of Meath he won numerous medals in football with the Navan O'Mahony's. He also won a number of hurling medals with the club. Noel's finest hour playing with the Starlights was versus Davidstown-Courtnacuddy in the Enniscorthy District Junior football championship. He was in superb form, safe and assured in his handling, dependable and confident and completely dominated the exchanges around his territory. His tremendous clearances saw him win acclaim. He performed in this game like so many others, with commendable foresight and courage. His two sons, Colm and Paul, were outstanding dual players and his brother, Peter, also played the game with pride and passion. One of the best club teams he has seen in football in Wexford was the superb Duffry Rovers which won all before them from 1986 to 1992. The three greatest footballers he has seen in Wexford were Andy Merrigan R.I.P. (Castletown), Oliver Cullen (Castletown) and Pete Crowley R.I.P. (Sarsfields). Noel was both Chairman and Secretary of the Enniscorthy District in the '70s. The three most difficult opponents he encountered while playing with the Starlights were Pat Murphy R.I.P. (Ballyhogue), Fergie Duff R.I.P. (Kilmore) and Liam Kehoe (Davidstown-Courtnacuddy). Noel also played hurling with St. Aidan's and the Shamrocks during his playing days. NOEL RYAN (SHELMALIERS) Noel Ryan from Newtown Road in Wexford town was an outstanding hurler with the Shelmaliers club for almost 20 years. In his day he was a free-scoring, fast-moving and elusive forward. His rate of scoring was exceptionally good and he seldom went a game without getting a score or two for his team. Noel always seemed to be thinking a move ahead of his opponent and he had the ability to leave his marker stranded. When he got within the scoring range he was deadly in his finishing and on several occasions he made his mark on the scoreboard. He was a very intelligent player and his clever manoeuvering and his ball control made him a danger around the goal areas. He was born in 1938 and was educated in Castlebridge N.S. His boyhood hero was Eugene Cullen who was a star player around that time. The best dual player he has seen was Paddy Kehoe. One of Noel's finest games playing for the Shelmaliers was versus Parnells in the Wexford District Junior hurling final in the late '50s. He first played Junior hurling with the Shelmaliers in 1956 and finished his career with them in 1976 - 20 years at the top with the club he always wanted to play for. CONTINUED OVERLEAF 
