sport football
{ Dion Fanning 
    September 24 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/soccer/cantwell-a-leader-of-men-26212962.html }
THE West Ham fan stood outside the cathedral and waited with his head bowed. He was dressed for football with the latest West Ham jersey on, but the smart trousers and the black armband on his upper arm told you he was there to pay respect. It was Monday morning at Peterborough Cathedral. Noel Cantwell's funeral was taking place and from every club he played for, they came to THE West Ham fan stood outside the cathedral and waited with his head bowed. He was dressed for football with the latest West Ham jersey on, but the smart trousers and the black armband on his upper arm told you he was there to pay respect. It was Monday morning at Peterborough Cathedral. Noel Cantwell's funeral was taking place and from every club he played for, they came to honour him. The cathedral in the town he had made his home was packed with friends and a grieving family. When Cantwell died just over two weeks ago, Irish sport, all sport, had lost a man who made the game worthwhile, who considered football an honourable calling. But the largeness of spirit he brought to all sport was nothing compared to the love for his family. A great man was being celebrated, but a father and husband was being mourned. "Noel's family was his number one team," his friend of fifty years, Ray Hennessy, remarked in his eulogy. Hennessy and Cantwell's friendship was founded in sport. Cantwell, he remembers, could play any game and often did, as they both began successful careers in sport. Hennessy would go on to distinguish himself at rugby for Munster, and his friendship with Cantwell endured beyond both men's sporting careers, deepened by the greatest of tragedies in both their lives when, within the space of a few years, they each lost a son in a car accident. But their lives as young men were filled with laughter and happiness. "Noel would never come back to Cork without looking me up," Hennessy remembered as he recalled the summer days when Cantwell would return to Ireland (he turned down the opportunity of playing county cricket with Essex because he didn't want to spend the whole year in England). With Denis Law, Paddy Crerand or Charlie Hurley frequently in tow, the group would tour the golf courses and pubs of Munster. "Noel loved a laugh and a joke, he was just an ordinary bloke," says Hennessy of his friend, "but one who possessed extraordinary charm and generosity. He was a handsome man, as soon as he walked into a place, people would stop what they were doing and look up." The funeral of a sporting star always has an added poignancy. At the cathedral, Cantwell's old team-mates gathered around, reminiscing. They were playful like the young men they no longer are but somehow always expected to be. Denis Law and Paddy Crerand stood together, remembering the time of their lives. "Noel was a leader of men," the great Law said, "you wanted to follow him." These men did remarkable things when they were young and forty years on their achievements brand them with a special glow. While Crerand and Law were jocular in one group, Bobby Charlton, always his own man, left quickly. "Noel was a gentleman, a really, really nice man and a very important person at Manchester United," he said of a man who did much to change football during the generation in which Charlton excelled. Cantwell's importance stretched far beyond Manchester United. John Bond attended on Monday, remembered by many as an extravagant manager in the late seventies and early eighties, but a formative thinker at West Ham along with Cantwell and Malcolm Allison. In a week when the Premiership has been derided as boring, it was salutary to remember that the coaching advances Cantwell, Bond and Allison championed in the fifties and sixties were viewed equally scornfully in some quarters. Cantwell himself did much to make the old-fashioned winger redundant with a more thoughtful approach to the full-back position. Though big and strong, Cantwell figured out that if he stayed on his feet - something unheard of in a predominantly muscular position - the winger would not be able to fly down the wing as easily. Soon Alf Ramsey was being criticised for leaving wingers out. The men who tried to change football, Cantwell among them, weren't doing it for the sake of entertainment, but to get the most out of the talents they had been given But the criticisms then as now ignore truths about the game. Eamon Dunphy wrote some years ago that "Ramsey recognised that the real strengths and values of English football were embodied not by Trevor Brooking, but by Nobby Stiles. Ramsey was right." Cantwell was among those who changed football, not for entertainment, but to get the most out of the talents they had been given. Noel Cantwell achieved that and those who mourned on Monday recognised it. Among the mourners was John Giles. Giles has spent a lifetime in football doing the right things, attempting to educate, first by his play and, more recently, by the clearest of thinking. Cantwell was an important thinker and he left a legacy, something which Giles feels is being squandered by the present generation. In his Evening Herald column on Wednesday, Giles wrote of his concerns for football. They do not centre round the formations or tactics. Chelsea have been copied, that much is true, but how can any league where Marlon Harewood has scored five times (or David Connolly once) be said to have become more defensive? Instead Giles highlighted a more dangerous trend, one that - in a week when he honoured Noel Cantwell - threatens the legacy of great football managers like Alex Ferguson and Arsene Wenger. "The pattern of decline has been developing for the last few years," Giles wrote. "It has been created by an absolute failure to notice the growing disgust of the English public with the behaviour of professionals at all levels of the game." In that context, he mentioned the Ashes series as the tipping point when the public no longer regarded it necessary to tolerate abusive behaviour as the price of sporting excellence. So far this season, there has been little excellence and there has been much agonising over the style of play. Football is going through a fad with five in midfield. Ten years ago, too many clubs played with three centre-backs before they discovered that it was a formation that weakened a team in too many crucial areas. Alex Ferguson never changed from 4-4-2 and when Arsene Wenger arrived in England, his first instinct was to abandon Arsenal's 3-5-2. Chelsea happened upon their formation, in part, because they lack two good strikers and now they have been copied. Football can survive that and the games will improve as the season progresses. The sport, though, may find it tougher to overcome its most dominant club's apparent desire to ignore all duties in its eagerness to please Roman Abramovich. Mourinho may have excelled in persuading a group of multi-millionaires to work selflessly every match, but other duties have been ignored. Mourinho, Wenger and Ferguson are pragmatic in their adherence to football's ideals. When it came to winning the FA Cup last season, Wenger was happy to sacrifice his beliefs in attacking football, sending out a team as sterile as any produced by Bolton or Blackburn. He has been more intransigent in his protection of his players, condemning diving when it penalises his teams, ignoring it when Arsenal's players go down. The snarling, the abuse of referees and the lack of gallantry seem gratuitous in England as they celebrate The Ashes, one of the noblest sporting events of all time. Footballers, protected from life and from harsh judgements, complain, as Rio Ferdinand did, if they are criticised for hesitating to sign a 100 grand per week contract. Ferdinand's case tested even those who believe footballers should earn as much as they can, remembering the days when the clubs happily considered them serfs. What Cantwell believed in was sporting excellence It was not the money that was the most appalling aspect of Ferdinand's case, but the notion that a player who had earned millions during an eight-month suspension for which he alone was culpable, could, a year later, demand more from the employers who had paid those wages. The weariness of the public may manifest itself in calls for entertainment, but they may, in reality, have become tired of, say, Robbie Savage. An icon in the Premier League, Savage spent most of last Sunday's game against Newcastle trying to get opponents sent off. Cantwell did not believe in the specious notion of entertainment. Football was a hard game - harder then for the players than it is now - and luxuries were not on offer. What Cantwell believed in was sporting excellence. From the sporting fields of Cork to Old Trafford he followed those beliefs. A couple of weeks ago, Jose Mourinho announced that 'obligation' was not a word in his vocabulary. Mourinho would not be pressured into entertaining in the style of a Brooking, Hoddle or Le Tissier. Mourinho has, like Ramsey, encouraged a revival of old English values in a multi-cultural team, but, like Wenger, Ferguson and the rest, he has other obligations, not to the false idol of entertainment but to the game itself. Watching Chelsea dismantle Spurs at the end of August, it wasn't hard to be impressed with aspects of the Chelsea side, with certain values. It wasn't just their resolve in defence but the calmness, even the cold-heartedness they brought to taking down a team of pretenders. There was no sentimentality, no rush of blood, no frivolous desire to provide entertainment. It was a fierce display and one in which Mourinho could take pride. But Chelsea have failed their obligations to the game. There is no need for them to ape Real Madrid, where the benefits of entertainment at all costs is in evidence year after unsuccessful year - but they could be allowed to play more creatively. More importantly, Mourinho's manner and Peter Kenyon's complete disregard for football's regulations have tarnished everything Chelsea have achieved. It will not matter when the oligarch's bonuses are handed out, but there needs to be a sustainable game left for those who support a football club at Stamford Bridge, not just one man's whims. Noel Cantwell was never pious, his friends say, always fun and relentlessly generous. As a man and as a footballer he fulfilled his obligations. "Noel left a legacy of respect and affection," Giles said as he left the church on Monday. "How many players and people in the game today are going to do that? Ultimately, it's all that matters." In life and in football, Noel Cantwell knew what mattered. 
