sport football
{  
    August 09 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/the-monday-interview-26176907.html }
KARL MacGINTY TALKS TO MINISTER FOR SPORT JIM McDAID IRISH politicians have spouted so much hot air on the subject of sport down the years that their promises should be bottled and sold to Richard Branson. After decades of empty rhetoric about national stadia, regional centres and 50-metre pools, all to be built out of lottery funds, sport struggled along on a shoestring. Only our scepticism grew ever-healthier. So what is it about Dr Jim McDaid that makes one suspect, against all our better instincts about politicians, that here is a man who might drag Irish sport kicking and screaming into the 21st century? Look at him and you see a cabinet minister. Sharply dressed in tailored suits, his demeanour is slightly starched with a hint of self-importance. But talk to him and you meet the maverick. McDaid's greatest perceived weakness as a politician, his habit of shooting straight from the lip, is said to make Government colleagues distinctly nervous. Yet it adds enormously to his public credibility. A minister who prefers directness to diplomacy; who has taken brickbats repeatedly for simply telling the truth, commands respect. The trials and tribulations of McDaid's private and public life are well documented. Typically, he has made no effort to conceal them or to dodge difficult issues. When before have we known a TD to talk publicly of his separation, his battle with the demon drink and describe himself as a hypocrite for obeying the party whip and voting against his conscience on a contentious issue? Yes, having a seat at the cabinet table for the first time has given sport in this country an immeasurable boost. However, the occupant of that seat must have a clear, informed vision of the future and not be afraid to boot convention into touch as he sets about achieving it. McDaid has no trouble identifying the problem areas in Irish sport or pinpointing the improvements he would like to see. The minister: * TELLS how Lottery funds, possibly adding up to hundreds of thousands of pounds, have disappeared into limbo because successive governments spread the cash too thinly in an effort to maximise its political impact. * DESCRIBES the organisation of sport nationally as ``still being in a little bit of a mess'' after years of ``ad hoc'' administration. * SAYS that many of the national governing bodies of sport in Ireland need to streamline their operation with athletics in particular need of a complete overhaul. * AGREES that the building of a major national stadium in Dublin might represent a duplication of resources and believes that financial considerations will eventually persuade the GAA to open Croke Park to other codes. * INSISTS that swimming will not get a penny from the government until all remnants of the sport's previous administration have been wiped off the slate and a new structure with new operating procedures is in place. * MAINTAINS that just one per cent of the mushrooming health budget would build two sports centres in each of the 26 counties and contribute hugely to the health and fitness of the general population. * BELIEVES that Ireland must go the front line in the battle against substance abuse and new legislation will include plans for two flying squads to carry out unannounced drug tests on sports stars as they train or compete anywhere in the country. The subject of Lottery funding has long been a bone of contention, with most public criticism directed at the small percentage of profits passed on to sport. ``Unfortunately, National Lottery funding as it was perceived when it first came out was not realised,'' says McDaid. Thankfully, that situation appears to be improving slowly, while the distribution of Lottery funds will be covered under the new Sport Bill which goes before the Dail shortly. But for years, McDaid reveals, the haphazard distribution of funds has led to a mushrooming of facilities in some areas and a dearth in others. Even worse, a significant part of sport's funding has disappeared into a black hole, from whence it has yet to return. This was due, he explains, to the way in which the Lottery scheme was ``politically used,'' with small sums of money being granted to a great number of people. ``I have been criticised for arguing that it is better to give a significant amount to fewer people than a small amount to everybody,'' says McDaid. ``For example, if a club or organisation wanted to do a job costing £100,000 or £150,000, they were given £5000 or £10,000. That did not enable them to start work or, sometimes, projects went unfinished. ``The Lottery money granted to those projects which never got started, going as far back in some cases as 1990, is still sitting out there with a legal commitment to it. There's a lot of money lying idle out there. I am trying to pinpoint how many of these clubs are no longer there. ``You should see the length of the lists of £10,000 and £15,000 grants given to clubs and organisations and there has been no movement at all the complete the work.'' At the moment, there is close to £17m worth of government money assigned to projects in this area. ``There are 783 projects out there that are still breathing,'' says the minister. ``I just want to find out how many are dead.'' In the meantime, McDaid has subtly changed the approach to lottery funding, awarding more substantial sums to fewer projects in the hope that this will ensure their completion. ``My predecessor gave out 515 projects in August of last year. This year, I only gave out 212 (totalling £4.9m) but we gave out decent amounts.'' Among other solutions to the problem is a 12-month limit for the commencement of work, beyond which the grant is lost and the recipient will have to re-apply. Even before the Lottery sprang to life in the mid-Eighties, Irish sport suffered for the lack of a clearly-defined national strategy, McDaid argues: ``The whole thing about sport is the ad hoc way in which it has been run and the ad hoc way in which some of the Governing bodies are run. ``It's still in a little bit of a mess. I've got areas of the country where there are four swimming pools along a 50-mile stretch of the road and there are other areas of the country where there's absolutely nothing. I've got two or three running tracks in one area and none in another.'' As with his predecessor, Bernard Allen, the centre plank of McDaid's policy is the implementation of a national structure, to be administered by John Treacy and the Sports Council, which will ensure that all the sports are pulling in the same direction. McDaid himself played a wide variety of sports as a youngster in Donegal and during his medical studies at Galway University, including Gaelic football, soccer and rugby. NOWADAYS he enjoys the occasional round of golf but his passion is horse racing and his expertise as a punter was highlighted recently at Galway when he pocketed nearly £5000 from a 239/1 treble in midweek. Then he finished off the Festival on a high note when he won Friday's jackpot and invested wisely in Donegal horse Golden Fact, trained by Michael McElhone. McDaid insists with a broad smile that he was only getting some of his money back after 18 years attending the Galway races. Yet his enthusiasm for sport, including a spell as medical adviser to the Donegal football team, hardly gave him an inkling of the enormity of the task which faced him when he took up office as Minister for Tourism, Sport and Recreation early last summer. McDaid smiles at the commonly held perception that it's a ``free and easy'' portfolio, especially in the wake of the swimming sex scandals which shocked the entire nation and offered a damning indictment of those charged with running the sport. ``People think that you do nothing but spend your time attending wonderful matches throughout the whole year. But there's more politics in sport than there is in politics itself. ``You have all the national governing bodies out there and I'll tell you one thing, swimming has been an eye-opener. It's dreadful that this all happened but it has set precedents that will make sport safer for young people in the future,'' says McDaid. Satisfied that the recommendations of the Murphy Report will help protect the innocent in future, McDaid still insists on sweeping changes in the IASA hierarchy before funding will be restored. He believes the association itself should be able to gather funds necessary to finance its elite performers and is not prepared to consider an interim solution to this problem. The IASA must regain his and the public's confidence before any Government cash can be sent their way. ``I know there are good hard-working people there who had nothing to do with or knowledge of the events which happened but will they be able to present an acceptable face for swimming in the new era. I do't think they will be.'' ``The situation will be reviewed after September when they come back with their proposals. What changes they make in procedure or personnel is up to them but the system had to be changed totally,'' he adds, insisting that this is the only way to restore confidence in the organisation. On a less dramatic level, McDaid says: ``If you look at the structure of some of our major national governing bodies, then there's a huge amount of work to be done. Why, for example, do we need three bodies in athletics? Why should BLE, the NACA and BLOE be required to run just one sport? ``Many sports need to be streamlined and focussed, athletics especially so. We give by far the largest amount of funding of any sport to athletics yet they are lagging behind losing numbers and popularity. This is an area grossly in need of an overhaul. We have an ideal opportunity to do just that and they are working on it,'' he explains. In general, McDaid expresses appreciation for the efforts of many people to have kept sport running down the years but admits that ``an awful amount'' of resources have been wasted, while he wonders how many potential sporting jewels have gone undiscovered. ``The national governing bodies have done as good a job as they can. Sport has been run by many too many good, decent people who do their best but do not know how to run a streamlined organisation. A lot of the organisations do not have what you'd call good, young chief executives in there to streamline affairs.'' Organisation, structure, strategy, streamlining. These words provide the ethos of the new Sports Bill, with the maximisation of government resources at the bottom line. EXPLAINING the ethos of his bill, McDaid says: ``I don't want a Sports Council that's telling governing bodies how to run their sports. The Council will set down policy but that's it. ``I'm just making suggestions about the way forward. You asked me was money being wasted. Yes there is a lot of wastage. The Sports Council deal with funding because I believe it is better to put that responsibility in the hands of people who have experience of competition and sport at the highest level.'' And what of facilities. When will work start on the 50m pool and is the idea of a national stadium just a dream. ``We had technical problems with the tendering procedure for the 50m pool but those has been sorted out and I expect the project to get underway before the end of the year.'' As for the national stadium, he says: ``I would hope that it's more than a dream. If the IRFU or the FAI do come in with a proposal that has a private sector element to it, then I wil definitely give it my consideration.'' Interestingly, McDaid mentioned that UEFA president Lennart Johannsen recently informed him that any city hoping to stage the final of a European soccer competition would require a 64,000 seater stadium. As Dublin will have one of those in the near future, I asked the Minister if he could see the GAA throwing Croke Park's doors open to one of soccer's European finals, especially when one considers how slowly the Association appears to embrace change, as evidenced by the recent Rule 21 debate. ``The GAA is a magnificent organisation and has a fantastic structure, the best in the country,'' he says. ``But cultural change can be very slow. I personally was disappointed that they were unable to change Rule 21, though president Joe McDonagh made a very, very brave effort. ``I agree with you that we need a national stadium and to build another arena in Dublin would be a duplication of the whole situation. But I think there is a financial reality with a state of the art development like Croke Park. ``At some point in the future is is going to dawn on the GAA that they are going to have to open up the doors of Croke Park if it is to be financially viable.'' HAVING such a facility available will greatly enhance to efforts of any future minister to maintain McDaid's stated intention of staging a major international event in this country each year. This year's was the Tour de France, which may have ended in a drugs debacle but McDaid believes that live TV coverage beamed around the world still served the cause of Irish tourism well. McDaid made the war against drugs a priority of his ministry when he first came into office last year and his sports bill will bring this country's first dope-testing regime into being. As a medical doctor, he is passionately devoted to this cause and congratulated the French police and customs for their vigorous pursuit of the cheats on this year's Tour. ``National government must take a leading role in this area. ``It is no longer acceptable to have Gardai investigating Gardai or sport policing sport, as it has been all down the years. Experience shows that the leaders of international sports organisations have been ineffective in dealing with the problem so we need the law and government to get involved,'' he explains. McDaid expects sparks to fly when the Sports Bill goes before the Dail. After all, some painful realities have to be faced by our national governing bodies and there's always resistance to change.  But this guy's well used to the whiff of cordite and one senses that he relishes the battle ahead. 
