sport football
{  
    October 10 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/enniscorthyguardian/sport/other-sports/st-annes-meet-the-players-27193757.html }
Diarmuid has played with the county in all grades of football and was captain of last year's Senior hurling championship-winning team. Has also won Jim Byrne Cup, Under-21 hurling, Junior 'A' hurling, Intermediate hurling, Intermediate football and Senior football titles with th DIARMUID BERRY (28) Laboratory Technician. Diarmuid has played with the county in all grades of football and was captain of last year's Senior hurling championship-winning team. Has also won Jim Byrne Cup, Under-21 hurling, Junior 'A' hurling, Intermediate hurling, Intermediate football and Senior football titles with the club. Diarmuid is a brother of Seamus and first cousin of Paul, Jack, Conor, Micheal and Majella (team physio). AIDAN BYRNE (27) Welder/Fabricator. A brother of Mossy, Aidan has won Under-21 hurling, Junior 'B' football, Junior 'A' hurling, Jim Byrne Cup and Intermediate hurling titles with the club. CHARLIE WHITE (31) Joinery Salesman. The current club Chairman and a selector with this year's double-winning Under-14 team, Charlie has represented Wexford in Minor and Under-21 football. Has won Senior hurling and football, Intermediate hurling and football, Junior 'A' and Junior 'B' hurling, Minor, Juvenile and Under-14 football medals with the club. PAUL FFRENCH (28) Carpenter. Paul has played Senior football with Wexford and has won Jim Byrne Cup, Under-21 hurling, Intermediate hurling, Senior hurling and football titles with the club. KEVIN BYRNE (33) Painter/Decorator. A Fitzgibbon Cup winner with Waterford Regional College, Kevin represented Wexford in Senior and Intermediate hurling and Junior football. Has won Under-14 and Juvenile hurling and football, Junior 'A' and Junior 'B' hurling, Intermediate hurling and football, Senior hurling and football medals with the club. GEOFF BARRY (26) Agricultural Consultant. A member of the Wexford Senior football panel, Geoff is a brother of Redmond and Alan. Has won Jim Byrne Cup, Under-21 hurling, Junior 'A' and Intermediate hurling, Senior hurling and football medals with the club. MICHEAL BERRY (28) Building Contractor. A Senior football medal winner last year, Micheal has played Senior football with Wexford and also holds under-age hurling and football honours and three District titles. Previously a member of the St. Martin's club, he is a first cousin of Diarmuid, Seamus, Paul, Jack, Majella and Conor. JACK BERRY (26) ESB employee. A Leinster Intermediate hurling medal winner in 2001, Jack was captain of the Wexford Senior football team in this year's All-Ireland championship. A brother of Paul and Majella, he was won Minor and Under-21 hurling, Jim Byrne Cup, Junior 'B' football, Junior 'A' hurling, Intermediate hurling, Senior hurling and football titles with the club. RICH DOYLE (25) Butcher. A first cousin of Darragh Ryan, he has represented Wexford in Junior and Senior football. Has won Under-21 hurling, Junior 'A' hurling, Intermediate hurling, Senior hurling and football titles with the club. REDMOND BARRY (20) Student. A Fitzgibbon Cup medal winner with U.C.D. earlier this year, Redmond is a brother of Geoff and Alan. Currently representing Wexford in Under-21 hurling, Intermediate hurling and Senior football, he has won Juvenile hurling, Intermediate hurling, Senior hurling and football titles with the club. DAVID O'CONNOR (20) Student. Another Fitzgibbon Cup medal with U.C.D. this year, David has represented Wexford in all grades of hurling and football. A brother of Rich and Joe, his honours include two Juvenile hurling, Leinster Under-14 football, Leinster Juvenile and Under-21 hurling, six District championships, Junior 'A', Intermediate and Senior hurling plus Senior football. DAVID FOGARTY (20) Student. David has won Under-16 hurling, Intermediate hurling, Senior hurling and Senior football medals with the club along with four District titles. Has also collected Leinster handball honours with St. Peter's. PAUL BERRY (28) Sports Medicine. A brother of Jack and Majella, Paul played Minor football for Wexford before going to the USA on a scholarship. Has won Jim Byrne Cup, Under-21 hurling, Senior hurling and football titles with the club. JOHN SIMPSON (28) Salesman. A brother of Franny, John won a Leinster Intermediate hurling medal this year and has collected Jim Byrne Cup, Under-21 hurling, Junior 'A' hurling, Intermediate hurling, Intermediate football, Senior hurling and football medals with the club. FRANNY SIMPSON (24) Plasterer. The team captain, Franny has won Walsh Cup Senior hurling and Leinster Intermediate hurling medals with Wexford. Captured Juvenile hurling and football, Minor, Under-21, Junior 'A', Intermediate and Senior hurling plus Senior football titles with the club. SEAMUS BERRY (30) ESB Engineer. A brother of Diarmuid, Seamus has represented Wexford in all grades of hurling and football. Has won Under-12, Under-14 and Juvenile hurling and football, Junior 'A' and Junior 'B' hurling, Intermediate hurling and football, plus Senior hurling and football titles with the club. TOMAS BYRNE (20) Student. Mossy is a brother of Aidan and has won Under-16 hurling, Senior hurling and football plus four District titles with the club. RORY STAFFORD (22) Quantity Surveyor. A former All-Ireland athletics champion, Rory has represented Wexford in all grades of hurling and football. Has won Rackard league football, Juvenile, Junior 'A', Intermediate and Senior hurling plus Senior football titles with the club. FERGUS WHELAN (20) Engineer. A former member of the county Minor hurling panel, Fergus captained the Wexford Vocational Colleges football team which won Leinster and All-Ireland honours in 1998. Also a Leinster Senior hurling Vocational Colleges winner, he has collected Under-14 and Juvenile District hurling, Juvenile county hurling and Minor football medals with the club. CONOR BERRY (23) Teacher. Has played Sigerson Cup football with Waterford I.T. and represented Wexford in Under-21 football. Conor is a first cousin of Jack, Paul, Majella, Seamus, Diarmuid and Micheal, and formerly played with St. Martin's. GARY CLONEY (17) Machine Operator. Gary has won a Juvenile hurling county titles plus a Junior 'B' league and four District titles with the club. JOE O'CONNOR (17) Student. A brother of David and Rich, Joe won a Nenagh Co-Op Under-16 hurling medal with Wexford. Has won a county Juvenile hurling medal and four District titles with the club. RICH O'CONNOR (19) Self-employed. A brother of David and Joe, Rich has won county medals in Juvenile and Senior hurling as well as four District titles and a Junior 'B' league title. ALAN BARRY (28) Salesman. A brother of Geoff and Redmond, he has won Jim Byrne Cup and Junior 'B' league medals. DARRAGH RYAN (26) Civil Engineer. The inspirational captain of the Wexford Senior hurling team in this year's All-Ireland championship, Darragh has represented the county in all grades of hurling and football. A first cousin of Rich Doyle, he has won Jim Byrne Cup, Under-21, Junior 'A', Intermediate and Senior hurling plus Senior football titles with the club. Collected a Leinster Colleges Senior football 'A' medal with St. Peter's College in 1992. FERGAL PARLE (26) Farmer. Fergal has won Under-21, Junior 'A', Intermediate and Senior hurling titles plus a Senior football medal and numerous under-age medals. 
