sport football
{  
    April 07 2007 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/sport-is-for-all-what-a-sick-joke-26286836.html }
BACK when Irish rugby players used to disgrace themselves by visiting Apartheid South Africa their defenders would intone the mantra, "sport and politics shouldn't mix". Nonsense of course. The two are always intertwined because everything in our daily lives is connected with politics. Still, we do like to think that sport exists in a separate sphere, a domain of relative innocence and purity. One of sport's great qualities, we proclaim, is its democratic nature. It doesn't matter who you are or where you come from, we're all the same on the field. Everyone gets a fair crack of the whip in sport. There's even a folksy attitude which suggests that a bit of hardship makes you better at sport. Hence the romantic sports writing emphasis on Gaelic footballers from embattled small farms, on footballers from council terraces and boxers fighting their way out of the ghetto. The poor mightn't have much, the story goes, but they'll always have sport. Except that they don't. A recent survey by the Economic and Social Research Institute reveals that in Ireland sport is just one more arena where the privileged are kicking the arse of the poor. This surprised me because I had cleaved to that old notion that sport was genuinely egalitarian. I think most of us would think that. We couldn't be more wrong. A person with a post-graduate degree, for example, is almost five times more likely to play sport than someone whose education ended at Junior Cert. People whose incomes are in the top 25% nationally are almost twice as likely to participate than people in the bottom 25%. Basically, the social groups with a higher income and a better education constitute a large majority of sportspeople in this country. "We wanted," says Pete Lunn of the ESRI, "to analyse if there were any links between disadvantage and participation in sports and it becomes clear that the link is strong and unarguable. This leads to the conclusion that if sports policy is to contribute to an improvement in population health, then investment must be targeted at disadvantage." This exclusion of the less well off extends from participation to volunteering and even to attendance at games. They fall behind early. The survey found that primary schools in disadvantaged areas offer both less sport and less varieties of sport to their pupils. And the disparity remains constant, it remains the same in all age groups. Drop back in this race and you're never going to catch up. The ESRI is nobody's idea of a left-wing organisation but the conclusion they've drawn from this survey is that public expenditure on mass participation sport can only be justified if the benefits are shared equally across the community. At the moment, they say, ¨Spending on sport is regressive. It is a transfer of resources from the less well off to the better off.¨ In other words not only is sport in this country not egalitarian but it's downright unjust. Poor people buying National Lottery tickets are subsidising the leisure pursuits of the better off. It's not just grant money spent on golf clubs and equestrian centres which is skewed in favour of the well off, it's sports funding in general. Because, and this is also interesting, the income disparity is constant across all sports, soccer, Gaelic football and hurling not being notably more equitable than golf or tennis. The kid whose parents can afford to buy him a top of the range selection of computer games is far more likely to be playing sport than the kid who can't afford any of these distractions This survey is, on one level, the sports story of the year. It tells us that everything conventional wisdom says about Irish sport is wrong. It shatters the illusion that sport is something that brings us all together in one cosy classless embrace. It is, to be honest, the revelation of a national disgrace. We all agree that sport is good for us. It is accepted now that we face an epidemic of childhood obesity if we don't encourage our kids to take part in meaningful and structured physical activity. The PlayStation-wielding crisp-munching lard-assed youngster is a contemporary folk demon. Yet it turns out that the kid whose parents can afford to buy him a top of the range selection of computer games is far more likely to be playing sport than the kid who can't afford any of these distractions. Your chances of benefiting from sport depend on how much money your parents, or parent, earn. And that has to be wrong. The ESRI has called for the setting up of Local Sports Partnerships which will target disadvantaged areas. But whether the political will is there to tackle this problem seems doubtful. You see, what the Institute are calling for is a diversion of money from the middle class towards the poor. And, in a country where last year there were more second home buyers than first time ones, this is not a particularly attractive electoral option. That guy with the post-graduate degree and the top 25% income is the one whose vote is courted most assiduously by the main parties. His counterpart with the Junior Cert in the bottom quarter is not such a priority. I decided to ring round a few of the parties to see if they had any suggestions as to how the balance might be redressed. The Labour Party propose to put specialist sports and PE teachers in all National Schools, crucially beginning with the disadvantaged ones. And Fine Gael are pledging increased personnel and grant aid for sports schemes in disadvantaged areas. Paul Gogarty of the Greens, who see greater investment in primary education as providing the answer, made an interesting point. "It doesn't help that government policy seems to be as much geared towards encouraging people to sit on their arses rather than get involved. One third of sports funding goes to the already profitable dog and horse racing industries. Nobody gets fit out of sitting in a bookies or sitting at home watching animals race." And Socialist Party TD Joe Higgins notes that while affluent communities can always make up a shortfall in state sports funding out of their own pockets the same option is not open to people in disadvantaged areas. "In the Mountview area of Dublin West, for example, we are still trying to get funding for a sports hall where the children can have the very basic facility of being able to change their clothes in some degree of comfort and have showers available. The community has been in place for almost 30 years now." The question of disadvantage does seem, however, to be a relatively peripheral issue for most parties. The focus remains on encouraging greater participation in general rather than ensuring equality of access. Perhaps it's time for a major rethink all round. Never mind international success, stadium building and tax breaks for the bloodstock industry, the ESRI have revealed where the real problem is. And until it's tackled and the rich man in his castle and the poor man at his gate compete in equal numbers, our idea of Ireland as a great sporting nation will be nothing but a sham. thephotograph@hotmail.com 
