sport football
{ Ronnie Bellew 
    June 05 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/gaelic-games/gaelic-football/fighting-fundamentalism-26221285.html }
ONE of the more unsettling aspects of hurling culture is the attitude some hurling men have towards Gaelic football. For the hurling fundamentalists, Gaelic football  is at best a nuisance and at worst a curse that has been the ruination of many a  promising hurler. Gaelic football is just another sport, whereas hurling exists on a far  more elevated, almost spiritual plane. B ONE of the more unsettling aspects of hurling culture is the attitude some hurling men have towards Gaelic football. For the hurling fundamentalists, Gaelic football is at best a nuisance and at worst a curse that has been the ruination of many a promising hurler. Gaelic football is just another sport, whereas hurling exists on a far more elevated, almost spiritual plane. But even by the standards of the hurling fundamentalists, what happened in Wexford earlier this year was exceptional. No longer content to just sit around bemoaning the perils of Peil for young hurlers, a hurling development group attempted to push through radically altered underage structures in the county. Their plan was simple. All underage football competitions in the county would be run off between October and March leaving the summer months exclusively for hurling. The plan almost worked. A proposal to confine football to the winter months was actually passed at a County Board convention in January before being rescinded at a later meeting. "It was an outrageous proposal," says county football selector Ger Halligan. "It would have driven a huge nail into the heart of football in Wexford. I have no problem with hurling people looking after their end of things but that was going too far." Séamus Keevans, who has been involved in Wexford football on and off for almost 50 years as a player and manager, says "football has had to fight against a lot of obstacles in Wexford but that proposal could have killed off the game here." The fact that a proposal to turn underage Gaelic football into a winter sport was even entertained at county board level reflects the unusual structure of the GAA in Wexford. Most clubs field both football and hurling teams and there are hundreds of dual players in the county. Unlike the successful dual counties such as Cork, Galway, and Offaly, there are no separate hurling and football areas. Even though the county's footballers have been in the doldrums since the 1950s, there is still as much football as hurling played in Wexford. In 2000 the St Anne's club won the county senior hurling and football championships drawing on the same group of players for both teams including county hurlers Daragh Ryan and Doc O'Connor. Ryan, who played football for the county for a couple of years, is now concentrating completely on hurling. Hurling's gain is football's loss, says Keevans. "Daragh was a fine footballer and could have been a top class county player. The same goes for Damien Fitzhenry and Rory McCarthy. If we had those fellas available for the football they would bring the team on an awful lot." In Wexford, though, the trend since the 1950s has been for the the talented dual player to concentrate on hurling at county level. It wasn't always that way. Keevans, who played in 1956 on the last Wexford team to reach a Leinster senior football final, remembers when football was the dominant game in the county. 1956 was the watershed year. The hurling team won one of the most celebrated hurling finals, the footballers lost the Leinster final to Offaly "Until the 1950s football would have been the stronger game in the county. There was a very strong tradition of football going back to the team that won six Leinsters and four All-Ireland titles in-a-row (1915-1918). But from the early 1950s onwards hurling started to become the more glamorous game. The emphasis at county level was on the hurling and the dual players started to opt out of the football." In a way 1956 was the watershed year for the fortunes of football and hurling in the county. The hurling team, backboned by the Rackards, won one of the most celebrated hurling finals, beating Cork and denying Christy Ring his ninth All-Ireland medal. The footballers' Leinster final defeat to Offaly the same year hastened the break-up of a team that had also lost the 1953 Leinster final to Louth. Football went into a period of long decline broken by occasional false dawns. Keevans was manager in 1977 when Wexford lost a Leinster semi-final against Meath. "We had a team capable of getting to the final that year but they lacked a bit of experience. In 1981 we beat Meath but lost by a few points to Offaly in what was probably the best game in Leinster that year. That was a good team but they didn't have much luck." A native of Gusserane near New Ross, Keevans holds the unique distinction of being the only player to have played championship football in all four provinces. A retired Garda, he was stationed in 10 different counties over the years and on his travels he played senior championship football for Sligo (1953-'55), Cavan (1960), and Waterford (1969). A genuine football fanatic, this year he is managing the Wexford junior football team as well as keeping a keen eye on the seniors' progress. "It's encouraging that they were able to compete and win games in Division One this Spring," he says. "All the indications are that they are moving in the right direction. If you go back to 2002 they were within two points of both Dublin and Tyrone. If the best four or five dual players were available to play football, I think they would have a real chance of turning things around and winning something." Ger Halligan is another man who has soldiered long and hard in the cause of Wexford football. He played senior football for the county between 1983 and 1995 and has an O'Byrne Cup medal from 1993 and a Division 3 title from 1987 to show for his efforts. In 1999 he took over as manager from JJ Barrett when Barrett resigned following his altercation with referee Mick Curley. This year he is one of new manager Pat Roe's selectors and says playing in Division One of the league has given the team an infusion of self-belief that wasn't there before. "It was tremendous for the morale of the team to be competing against and getting results against the likes of Galway and Armagh. We have a very young team and the league run has brought them on no end. We have a real good crop of footballers coming through at a time when there aren't too many hurlers coming through so it's potentially a good time for Wexford football. "You can trace a lot of it back to the colleges teams produced by St Peter's and Good Counsel over the last ten years. A lot of this group of players would have come through from those teams." Wexford's league run this year included the famous 16-point routing of Galway in Tuam in March when corner-forward Mattie Forde scored 4-5, another big win against Sligo and a draw against Armagh. A poor performance in their final league game against Laois cost them a place in the play-offs but they regrouped to claim a first championship victory in five years when they ran out eight-point winners against Louth three weeks ago in Parnell Park. 'It was important, and any day you win a championship game by eight points is a good day' It was a low key performance compared to their league exploits and Halligan believes the team may have been unnerved by being firm favourites for the game. "It was very unusual for a Wexford football team to enter a championship game as hot favourites. It put a lot of pressure on some of the younger players and we probably didn't play to the best of our ability. "But it was important for us to get the result and any day youwin a championship game byeight points is a good day." Since the Louth game, Wexford have run up some big scores in challenge matches against Tipperary and Cork. Last week they fought out a draw in another game against a full-strength Cork side. Given the general levelling out of standards in Leinster, Wexford are far from no-hopers in today's game. The Laois breakthrough in Leinster last year has convinced counties such as Wexford that they too can finally step out of the provincial shadows. Wexford haven't won a Leinster football title since 1945 and while Ger Halligan is loathe to make predictions he feels this group of Wexford players are poised for some sort of breakthrough either in Leinster or in an extended championship run via the backdoor. "Today is a whole new ball game for us. Kildare have a very good pedigree but until we start beating teams like Kildare we will be stuck with the underdogs tag," says Halligan. "We have made a lot of progress. Surviving in Division One and beating Louth is good progress but we would like to think that there is more to come from this team." 
