trump
{ Colette Browne 
    October 11 2016 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/colette-browne/article35120105.ece }
The Republican Party has unleashed a monster with Donald Trump. Now, they must take responsibility for him. It's hard to know why Trump's grotesque comments about groping women disgusted the Republican leadership so much that many renounced their endorsement of him en masse at the weekend. It's not as if Trump hasn't made misogynistic comments before. He's appeared in soft porn videos, abused Miss Universe competitors and even agreed that his own daughter was "a piece of ass".  The man is a pig, has always been a pig and is doomed to be a pig in perpetuity.   Therefore, his proud boast that he abused his celebratory status to sexually assault women, caught in a hot mic incident in 2005, can hardly have come as much of a shock to his Republican colleagues, who are belatedly claiming to have just woken up to the fact that their candidate is a beast.  One wonders where they have been for the last 18 months as Trump's odious campaign left a trail of sleaze and slime in its wake.  Perhaps if Trump had described his sexual assaults in less explicit language, he would still enjoy the support of John McCain and other Republican luminaries.  But, there was no way for these senior figures to spin Trump's brag that he likes to "grab 'em by the p***y" as anything other than revolting and wrong.   Poor Trump, done down by the word "p***y" when all of his previous racist and sexist rants seemed, if anything, to bolster his support.  This is not to suggest that all of Trump's gormless followers have deserted him. For some, there is no apparent bar this oaf can sink below that would cause them to abandon their anti-hero.  Remaining with Trump in the sewer are those ragtag of hypocrites and sycophants for whom he can do no wrong, no matter how offensive his language or despicable his behaviour.  People like the family-values Christians who profess themselves to be appalled by the Clintons yet champion Trump, a thrice-married serial adulterer who openly admits his assault of women.  People like House Speaker Paul Ryan, who releases a statement every second day denouncing Trump's latest abhorrent comment yet can't quite bring himself to fully cut the cord and withdraw his endorsement.  People like professional troll Nigel Farage, who has travelled to the US to join the Trump circus as a barking sea lion who reacts to every outrage with an overzealous clap.  The former Ukip leader dismissed Trump's aggressive comments about women as nothing more than "alpha male boasting" from a "silverback gorilla".  While we can all agree that Trump is a gorilla, his contemptuous treatment of women does not make him an alpha male.  There is nothing strong or powerful about Trump.  His volcanic temper and thin skin instead suggest that underneath his brash, orange exterior he is riven with self-doubt and crippled with anxiety.  How else to explain his embarrassing insistence, despite plenty of evidence to the contrary, that he is always the best and brightest person in the room or his persistent trumpeting of his purported wealth, even as he continually refuses to release the documents to prove it?  He is a small, snivelling wretch of a man who doesn't even deserve the validation of a grubby reality TV show, never mind the position of the most powerful political leader on the planet.  While Trump's demeaning and aggressive treatment of women means his campaign is now over, even if its death rattle continues for another few weeks, the problems for the Republican Party are only just beginning.  Long after the dust has settled on this lurid campaign, the GOP will be picking up the pieces of its reputation, which was casually obliterated by Trump's divisive rhetoric and bullying behaviour.  At some point the GOP will have to answer an important question. What exactly does it stand for these days?   Is it small government and Christian values or xenophobia, racism and misogyny?  A poll taken after this latest controversy suggests it's the latter. Asked if they thought Trump should withdraw from the race, just 12pc of Republican voters agreed.  The vast majority were unperturbed by his grotesque comments and remain committed to the vulgarian. The party leadership may treat Trump with disdain, a temporary necessary evil in their fight against Hillary Clinton, but the base loves him.  They cheer his boorish comments, relish his unadulterated racism and delight in his caustic personal attacks on rivals.  Trump has allowed them to throw away their dog whistles and vocalise their full-throated commitment to a virulent racism that last saw such unabashed public expression during segregation.  They didn't even flinch when he mocked a disabled reporter, flailing his arms and contorting his mouth to ridicule him. The moderates in the party, having finally conceded Trump has no chance of winning, may be cutting their ties with him now, but the damage has been done.  People of colour will not forget that these party stalwarts stood idly by while they were abused, vilified and degraded by their nominee.  It could be that Trump has annihilated any hope the party had of attracting minority support for a generation with opinion polls indicating he enjoys 0pc support among black voters.  Republicanism and Trumpism are now one in the same.  The party has allowed itself to become so contaminated by its association with a loudmouth bigot that it's hard to know how it can begin the clean-up operation.  Trump may stumble on for the remainder of this campaign, but he will lose in ignominy, tormented by such a massive public failure.  It should be some comfort to the women and minorities he persecuted that their votes will be the ones that hammer the nails into his political coffin.  Locked in there with him will be the rest of the Republican Party, who will find it hard to escape Trump's clutches even after he becomes a political corpse.  Irish Independent 
