trump
{ Robert Costa 
    August 31 2018 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/north-america/president-trump/trump-lawyer-didnt-stop-me-firing-mueller-37268778.html }
US President Trump has  denied claims that outgoing White House counsel Don McGahn stopped him from firing Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Special Counsel Robert Mueller. "I am very excited about the person who will be taking the place of Don McGahn," Mr Trump said on Twitter, revealing for the first time that he has settled on a replacement for Mr McGahn. 
Close
 McGahn is exiting White House. Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images / "I liked Don, but he was NOT responsible for me not firing Bob Mueller or Jeff Sessions." The 'New York Times' reported earlier this year that Mr Trump ordered Mr McGahn to fire Mr Mueller, who is conducting a probe into Russian election meddling and potential collusion with the Trump campaign.  Mr McGahn refused the 2017 directive and threatened to resign, according to the report. Mr McGahn, who has led the Trump administration's efforts to reshape the judiciary while confronting turmoil in the West Wing surrounding the ongoing special counsel probe, will leave his post in the coming weeks. The exit of Mr McGahn - a low-key, 50-year-old lawyer who has been at Mr Trump's side since the early days of the 2016 presidential campaign - comes at a fragile moment inside the White House amid escalating tensions between the president and the Department of Justice in recent weeks. Mr McGahn, who has deep ties in Washington's legal community, has long functioned as Mr Trump's liaison to Justice officials and Congress.  He has frequently played the informal role of peacemaker, as Special Counsel Robert Mueller and his team have pursued interviews, including with Mr McGahn, and documents from White House officials as part of their continuing investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential campaign. "White House Counsel Don McGahn will be leaving his position in the fall [autumn], shortly after the confirmation (hopefully) of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court," Mr Trump wrote on Twitter.  "I have worked with Don for a long time and truly appreciate his service!" Mr Trump's announcement of Mr McGahn's departure came as a surprise, and also caught Mr McGahn on the hop. He was not aware that Mr Trump planned to send the tweet. "He was surprised," a person close to Mr McGahn said. While it had been an open secret inside the White House that Mr McGahn planned to leave after Mr Kavanaugh's confirmation process was concluded, he had not discussed his plans directly with Mr Trump, according to this person. Mr McGahn, who has told many friends that he has wearily endured countless political and legal battles, saw Mr Trump's tweet as abrupt but typical of how the president acts - and it did not make him angry, according to two people familiar with his reaction. His reaction was, "Of course it happened this way," one said. Mr Trump was in part prompted to tweet on Wednesday morning after reading a report in Axios, a news publication, about Mr McGahn's likely departure, according to two Trump advisers who were not authorised to speak publicly.  Mr Trump read the story and quickly decided to act, giving a formal nod to what had been an expected move inside the White House, the advisers said. The announcement also came as Trump's family members and senior advisers - daughter Ivanka Trump and son-in-law Jared Kushner - have seen their relationship with Mr McGahn fray over time.  One Trump aide described Mr McGahn as someone who "had to tell them 'no' on some issues" and never clicked with them personally.  Mr Kushner and Ivanka Trump, along with the president, have regularly chafed at Mr McGahn's counsel and caution, the associates said. Many Republicans on Capitol Hill who see Mr McGahn as a stable force and accessible official were stunned and dismayed by Mr Trump's announcement. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, tweeted on Wednesday that he hopes "it's not true" that Mr McGahn is leaving and urged Mr Trump to not "let that happen". Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell called it "sad news for our country." Mr McGahn's role in seeking to transform the judiciary - he helped select Mr Trump's two Supreme Court nominees and dozens of picks for lower federal courts - made him a favourite of conservatives who view the endeavour as the most successful project of Mr Trump's presidency. "Don is the most impressive White House Counsel during my time in Washington, and I've known them all," Mr McConnell, who has worked closely with Mr McGahn, said in a statement.  "Don's significance to the judiciary, the White House and the nation cannot be overstated, and I look forward to his continued efforts on behalf of our country." White House attorney Emmet Flood, a veteran Washington lawyer whom Mr McGahn recruited to join the West Wing in May, is seen by most Trump aides as a likely replacement because of his rapport with the president and his knowledge of impeachment proceedings. Mr Flood represented Bill Clinton and has begun to prepare for a potential Democratic move against Mr Trump, should that party win control of the House this fall. Mr McGahn's impending departure is widely seen within the president's circle as the culmination of frustrations that have come with each new crisis that he has been forced to handle since Mr Trump took office, from a scandal over then-national security adviser Michael Flynn's disclosure of contacts with Russian officials to the many times the commander-in-chief has lashed out about Mr Mueller's probe. Still, Mr McGahn has often expressed a sense of accomplishment to allies despite the ongoing controversies and  turbulence. As evidence of conservative success, he has pointed in particular to his efforts last year on the nomination of Supreme Court Justice Neil M Gorsuch and on other judicial nominees later approved by the Republican-controlled Senate, as well as his work to curb federal regulations. (© 2018, The Washington Post) Irish Independent 
