trump
{ Hugh Morris 
    January 25 2017 01:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/travel/revealed-the-most-expensive-suites-in-trumps-hotel-empire-and-where-doonbeg-ranks-35393018.html }
An inauguration weekend getaway at one of President Trump’s hotels could have set you back as much as €55,050. Two nights in a Trump Townhouse suite, the best room available at Trump Washington DC, a mile from the US Capitol building, where the 45th President of the United States was sworn in on Friday, chimed in at £47,501/€55,050. That's according to UK-based currency analysts FairFX, who examined the cost of the cheapest and most expensive rooms in Trump’s properties. At the other end of the spectrum was Trump International Doonbeg in County Clare, where a room for a weekend cost £334/€387. 10 most expensive rooms in Trump hotels (2-night stays) Source: FairFX Bringing a new level of luxury to Pennsylvania Avenue #TrumpDC A total of 14 Trump hotels were examined by FairFX (eight in the US, two in Canada, two in Scotland, one in Panama and one in Ireland). The most expensive suites are found in his US properties. The Presidential Suite at Trump Doral in Miami costs £13,855/€16,057 for two nights; followed by the Waikiki Penthouse Suite in his Honolulu hotel, and the Penthouse Suite in the Trump Las Vegas. The cheapest rooms, after Trump Doonbeg, were in his Panama outlet, followed by Trump Turnberry. Even the cheapest room in Trump Washington DC, however, would still have set you back £1,245/€1,443 for two nights. 10 cheapest rooms in Trump hotels (2-night stays) Regardless of what one thinks of Trump’s politics, his branded hotels are highly regarded, as New York travel expert Douglas Rogers explained. 
Close
 Doonbeg Lodge / "It's an odd dichotomy that for all his garishness and vulgarity, Trump is a master hotelier," he wrote on Telegraph Travel. "Trump Hotels – and there are 15 of them, on three continents – are rather good. Actually, let me rephrase that. They’re fantastic. They feature all the finer things in life – Michelin-starred restaurants, great wines, Waterford crystal – and appear to be the epitome of good taste. Which seems very at odds with the man himself." Indeed, Trump’s primary residence, the top three floors of Trump Tower in New York, does not seem to have been designed with the same good taste. The work of Angelo Donghia, it features a Louis XIV theme - in that it is a parody of Versailles - and boasts 24-carat gold and sickeningly sweet marble decor in addition to various neo-classical columns, artworks and sculptures. NB: Exchange rates correct as of 24.01.17. Read more: Telegraph.co.uk 
