trump
{ Bertie Ahern 
    January 28 2017 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/a-leader-immersed-in-needless-rows-will-be-distracted-from-the-business-of-government-35404763.html }
They say self-praise is no praise, but not in the mindset of the new President of the United States, Donald J Trump. There was a revealing incident earlier this month.  With less than a fortnight to go before his inauguration, it might have been expected that Mr Trump would be consumed by his preparations to lead a new administration, but the then President-elect was otherwise engaged. He was, in fact, busy point-scoring in a self-indulgent Twitter spat over a reality TV show. Mr Trump could not resist sending a gloating tweet to highlight the poor ratings figures for Arnold Schwarzenegger's 'Celebrity Apprentice' show. At the same time, Mr Trump drew attention to his own prior success on reality television; he grandiosely described himself as "the ratings machine, DJT", and he suggested that Mr Schwarzenegger had been "swamped" in comparison. Despite the boasts about his reality TV prowess, "the ratings machine, DJT" is surely cognisant that his own political ratings have been plummeting almost from the moment of his election. Last week, the 'Washington Post' described Mr Trump's inauguration as a "hostile takeover of Washington" and this is certainly a President who is not experiencing a honeymoon period. Mr Trump's administration has sought to blame the media for this state of affairs. There have even been dark mutterings about the White House being prepared to fight "tooth and nail" efforts to "delegitimise" President Trump. In democratic politics, it rarely plays out well to come across as angry and belligerent, but to date this has been the mood music to Mr Trump's presidency. Inevitably, this is negatively impacting on Mr Trump's opinion poll ratings and, more seriously, it could also really hamper his ability to do his job effectively. A political leader who gets immersed in needless rows or controversies is usually distracted from the day-to-day business of government and the result is that important work gets long-fingered. Mr Trump's anger may have some justification. It sounds like he may even have been the victim of a mischievous, sinister and unsubstantiated leak. This is an experience that sadly many people in political leadership have been confronted with - and not just in the United States of America. In Mr Trump's case, what happened is that US intelligence officers, investigating the claims of so-called 'Moscow meddling' in the US Presidential election, presented President Obama and President-elect Trump with a report that included allegations of Russian operatives claiming to have compromising personal and financial information about Mr Trump. These sensational and also supposedly lurid allegations were contained in a two-page appendix to an intelligence brief on Russian interference in the 2016 election. The allegations came, in part, from memos compiled by a former British intelligence operative and shone a brief light on the murky world of international espionage and sounded like something from the pages of a John Le Carré novel. Though the allegations could not be proven, they were leaked with the obvious intention of politically damaging Mr Trump, even before he was inaugurated. Donald Trump has categorically denied the content of the allegations and he has pointed the finger of blame for the leak at US intelligence agencies. If the salacious charges against him are untrue, Mr Trump, of course, has a right to be angry, but as president he has to learn that sometimes deploying a poker face and keeping a lid on his personal feelings is essential to meeting his wider responsibilities. Mr Trump's full frontal attacks on his own intelligence agencies, likening their actions to Nazi Germany, has undoubtedly sown a deep mistrust between the US intelligence community and their new commander-in-chief. America's geopolitical rivals, as well as terrorist organisations around the globe, must be rubbing their hands in glee at this breach. Meanwhile, the refusal of James Comey, the FBI director, to confirm in public hearings any FBI counter-intelligence inquiry into Mr Trump's associates' ties with Russia has been treated with derision by Capitol Hill Democrats. Mr Comey was not so taciturn in the final days of the US presidential campaign. His decision to publicly discuss an FBI investigation of Hillary Clinton had a major impact on the outcome of the election. The US Justice Department's internal watchdog has now opened an inquiry into this unprecedented intervention. The emerging prospect of a badly weakened FBI director and a hot-headed president, who is at odds with his intelligence agencies, is not the most inspiring combination for those concerned about US national security. Mr Trump seems to take an almost irreverent pleasure in doing things differently, in ignoring convention and in being a political maverick. These factors worked to his advantage on the campaign trail and allowed Mr Trump to portray himself as anti-establishment figure, who would shake-up a stale political status quo. But Mr Trump's unfamiliarity with the ways of Washington and his inexperience as a political office-holder are major disadvantages that are likely to be exposed in government. Election campaigns are often defined by robust debate and it is important to be able to mix it with your political opponents, but in government it is best to avoid unnecessary squabbles. From the outset of his presidency, Mr Trump has revelled in confrontation. He generated an extraordinary fuss about the size of the crowds at his inauguration by sending his press secretary, Sean Spicer, out to attack the media and to make the dubious assertion that "this was the largest audience ever to witness an inauguration, period". It was a poor performance and, for reasons unconnected with Mr Spicer, I thought of Comical Ali, the Iraqi Information Minister under Saddam Hussein, who seemed to specialise in making wild claims. An experienced politician would have refused to be provoked by media claims of low numbers at the inauguration and instead used any related questions to pivot to a positive message. Mr Trump should have replied to the media criticisms by thanking the thousands of people who actually turned out to support him on a wet Friday in a city where he only got 4pc of the popular vote. He could have then made the point that the silent majority of American citizens who voted him in to office come from outside the Washington beltway. He could have contended that many of his staunch supporters have no jobs and no money to travel large distances for his inauguration. His tagline should have been that when he makes America great again, he will double the numbers at his next inauguration. Instead, Mr Trump chose to shoot the messenger and he has only succeeded in alienating the media even more. Mr Trump is a political rookie and the first president with no public office experience since Dwight Eisenhower entered the White House in 1953. His inexperience may lead Mr Trump to believe issuing a string of executive orders makes him look like a man of action, but time will teach him that what is needed to deliver lasting political change is careful administration, a comprehensive policy agenda and a broad range of implementation skills. This is all-consuming work and it should not leave any space for the energy of people in the administration to be diverted into pointless twitter arguments and media brawling. In his victory speech on election night, Donald Trump pledged "to bind the wounds of division". The reality of his first week in office has been somewhat different. President Trump has angered environmental campaigners by moving to advance construction of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access oil pipelines; he has alienated humanitarian organisations by indicating he will bar Syrian refugees from entering the United States; he has heightened concerns about racism and discrimination by hinting at an executive order that will prohibit entry into the US from a set of Muslim-majority countries; he has accused Mexico of "burdening the United States with illegal immigrants, criminals and a trade deficit" and he has engaged in a diplomatic stand-off with the Mexican president over his plans to build a border wall; he has been criticised by Amnesty International and he has angered people everywhere who cherish human rights by saying that waterboarding torture is effective; he has caused raised eyebrows, even within his own party, by suggesting to congressional leaders that three to five million illegal votes cost him the popular vote in the election and that he wants this investigated; he has caused undue worry to many struggling families by beginning to roll back Obamacare; he has turned US trade agreements on their head by pulling out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership and by stating that a trade deal with the British, who are on the brink of leaving the EU, was one of his "earliest priorities". If Donald Trump is only warming up, we are in for some roller-coaster. If he can be at the centre of so many rows in just one week, what is he capable of in four years? Bertie Ahern is a former Taoiseach Irish Independent 
