trump
{ Rachael Revesz 
    October 09 2016 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/north-america/us-election-2016/grab-them-by-the-p-you-can-then-do-anything-35115118.html }
Donald Trump has apologised for "causing offence" after a leaked 1995 recording exposed the Republican's lewd and crass comments about women. As he travelled on a bus with Billy Bush of Access Hollywood to meet Days of our Lives actress Arianna Zucker, Mr Trump bragged about his attempts to have sexual intercourse with a married woman who rejected his advances. He insisted he had the right to do "whatever he wanted" with women, as he was a "star". Leading showbiz journalist Nancy O'Dell yesterday identified herself as the woman and said she was "saddened" by the remarks. Trump, who was 59 at the time, had just married his third wife, Melania Trump. Mr Trump has since dismissed the comments as "locker room banter" made a decade ago and said he had much "worse" from Bill Clinton on the golf course. Former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski told CNN that the American people would appreciate that Mr Trump "talked from the heart". These are the remarks in the video, obtained by the Washington Post: Donald Trump: You know I moved on her actually. You know she was down on Palm Beach. Unknown: She used to be great. She's still very beautiful. Trump:  I moved on her and I failed. I'll admit it. I did   try and f*** her. She was married. Unknown: That's huge news. Trump: No, no, Nancy. This was - And I moved on her very heavily in fact. I took her out furniture shopping. She wanted to get some furniture. I said I'll show you where they have some nice furniture.  I took her out furniture shopping. I moved on her like a bitch, but I couldn't get there, and she was married.  Then all of a sudden I see her, she's now got the  big, phony tits and everything. She's totally changed her look.  [The men spot Arianne Zucker waiting for them outside the bus] Bush:  Sheesh, your girl's hot as shit. In the purple. Trump: Whoa! Yes! Whoa! Unknown: : Yes! The Donald has scored. Whoa, my man! Trump: Look at you. You are a pussy. [Crosstalk as the bus doors open and close - Trump is still on the bus] Trump: Maybe it's a different one. BUSH: It better not be the publicist. No, it's her. It's - Trump:  Yeah, that's her. With the gold. I better use some Tic Tacs just in case I start kissing her.  You know I'm automatically attracted to beautiful - I just start kissing them. It's like a magnet. Just kiss. I don't even wait. And when you're a star they let you do it. You can do anything. BUSH: Whatever you want. Trump: Grab them by the p****. You can do anything. BUSH: Yeah those legs, all I can see is the legs. Trump: Oh, it looks good. BUSH: Come on, shorty. Trump: Oh, nice legs, huh? BUSH: Oof, get out of the way, honey. Oh, that's good legs. Go ahead. Trump: It's always good if you don't fall out of the bus. Like Ford, Gerald Ford, remember? [Trump knocks on the bus door to get out] BUSH: Down below. Pull the handle. Trump: Hello. How are you? Hi. ARIANNE ZUCKER:  Hi Mr Trump. How are you? Trump: Nice seeing you. Terrific, terrific.  You know Billy Bush? BUSH: Hello, nice to see you. How you doing, Arianne? Zucker:  I'm doing very well, thank you. Are you ready to be a soap star? Trump:: We're ready, let's go. Make me a soap star. BUSH: How about a little hug for the Donald? He just got off the bus. ZUCKER: Would you like a little hug, darling? Trump: Absolutely. Melania said this was okay. BUSH: How about a little hug for the Bushy?  I just got off the bus. Here we go. Excellent. Well you've got a nice co-star here. Trump: Good. After you. Come on, Billy, don't be shy. [The three of them start walking towards the set] BUSH: Soon as a beautiful woman shows up he just, he takes off. This always happens.  Let the little guy in here, come on. Zucker: Yeah let the little guy in.  How you feel now? Better? I should actually be in the middle.  Trump: Bush: It's hard to walk next to a guy like this.  Yeah, you get in the middle. There we go. Zucker:  This is much better. This is- Trump: That's better. BUSH: Now, if you had to choose honestly between one of us. Me or the Donald? Trump: I don't know, that's rough competition.  That's some pressure right there. BUSH: Seriously, you had to take one of us as a date. Zucker:  I have to take the Fifth on that one.  "Yep. I'll take both." Sunday Independent 
