trump
{ Willie Kealy 
    November 12 2016 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/willie-kealy-trump-shows-were-just-one-charismatic-nutter-away-from-a-rude-awakening-35209443.html }
What we have is a failure to understand Americans. They are generous and proud of themselves and their country, but fearful sometimes to the point of paranoia and resentful about the rest of the world.  Their generosity is of the charitable kind - they like it to be voluntary. But they don't like being told to be generous to the less fortunate. They call that socialism, which they equate with communism. Of late they have been suspicious and resentful not just of the rest of the world, but of Washington, where they see professional politicians for whom winning is all; getting to Washington and forgetting about their constituents. Barack Obama imposed on working people another cost they felt they could not afford. They saw the big corporations taking their jobs outside the country with the connivance of Washington; terrorists' threats to their homeland, and being expected to be the world's policeman and pay for the privilege. Hillary Clinton was viewed as epitomising that Washington insider-class, with a sense of entitlement. She had an entitlement to the Democratic nomination - she had worked long enough and hard enough and was talented enough to earn it. No other Democrat deserved it more or could have done better against Mr Trump, including Bernie Sanders who just looked too old. And if it had been anybody else other that Mr Trump she was up against - Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz, George Bush, or Chris Christie - she'd probably have won. But against Mr Trump she was facing an angry silent minority - she won the popular vote - essentially worried about their jobs, and about the security of their country. This same simmering angry minority exists in Europe too. It was responsible for Brexit. It led to the Greek revolution while it lasted and the rise of extremist political groupings across the continent. And it led to the end of the politics as usual at our last general election.  The establishment politicians and the mass media in America remained reluctant to alter their insider status. It was too comfortable, too familiar and they still took succour from the belief that the majority would never desert them for those they see as the nutters. Well, Mr Trump is a nutter. In Europe, Nigel Farage is a nutter. Marine Le Pen is a nutter, and they are not alone. 
Close
 Police detain a demonstrator at a protest in Portland, Oregon, against the election of Donald Trump. Photo: Reuters REUTERS / At home the nutters are the likes of Mick Wallace and Jack O'Connor and Brendan Ogle and Paul Murphy and Richard Boyd Barrett - caricatures of the loony left - so our own elite feel safe. But they are only one charismatic nutter away from a rude awakening. In America, everything has now changed. But Mr Trump has led the angry and the fearful to the top of the hill. He must now find a way to lead them back down some of the way. Whatever about building a physical wall with Mexico, however, he will have to fulfil some of his promises. So Obamacare will go and millions of Americans will lose health insurance and some will die as a consequence. The rich will get tax cuts in the belief that crumbs will fall from their table. US companies that have moved their production abroad - what we call foreign investment - will be penalised or incentivised in the tax code to persuade them to come back. International trade deals will be reviewed. That could affect us all. But even Mr Trump can't be totally protectionist in trade no matter the size of the internal US market. And the new Supreme Court will see gun control off the agenda and a woman's right to choose will be adjudicated by conservative old men from the Dark Ages. So depressing, so nasty, as Mr Trump might say.  There are those who take comfort from Mr Trump's acceptance speech, which was the most reasonable one he made in 18 months. They believe the real Mr Trump will not be the one they saw on the campaign. They might be right.  On foreign policy there is probably less to fear. Mr Trump appears to be an isolationist who will be reluctant to get involved in conflicts abroad. And his demand that Nato allies pay their fair share is not unreasonable. It has been obvious since the withdrawal from Vietnam that America's military resources are permanently stretched, especially without conscription. Walking softly and a carrying a big stick has been reversed. But America under Mr Trump won't walk away from the worldwide fight against terrorism, not least because the US will remain the prime terrorist target. Mr Trump can't change that. One specific foreign policy it seems likely he will quickly review is the Iran deal and this is an area where a blundering Mr Trump could do real harm.  The new caring, sharing Mr Trump will be walking a very thin tightrope when he tries to tackle the issue of illegal immigration. But this is one promise he cannot ignore and it could have consequences for the undocumented Irish in America.  Now that he's won he has forgotten all about the election being rigged - Teddy Roosevelt used to say the same thing when he thought he was losing. Mr Trump would do well to also forget the commitment to appoint a special prosecutor to go after Mrs Clinton. The FBI - its clumsy, last-minute intervention was crucial in sinking her - has already said there are no grounds for prosecution. If the president-elect were to persist in hounding her anyway, it would be an indication that a big part of Mr Trump is still inhabited by Mr Trump the nutter.  Most people who listened to what the competing US presidential candidates had to say over the past 18 months did not take in everything that was said. They got an impression. In Mrs Clinton they saw experience and ability, but also a poor communicator and an insider they didn't trust. In Mr Trump they saw an outsider who was for change and making America great again. The result is Mr Trump now has the backing of congress - something Mr Obama never enjoyed - but that's no guarantee of being able to rule as he wishes. So he will probably strive just to fulfil the broad-brushstroke hopes of those who voted for him, not all the detail of what he promised, as he concentrates on his strong desire to have a second term. For like Ulysses S Grant, who came to the White House with a very successful military career behind him, he will find that life as the US president can be much more difficult when not all those you have to work with in congress are inclined to follow your orders without question. That may be our best hope for the next four years. Irish Independent 
