trump
{  
    April 30 2017 09:20 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/donald-trump-100-days-10-big-promises-35668114.html }
Donald Trump marks his 100th day in office today. His is already a presidency like no other, encompassing everything from Trump’s often outlandish tweets to the speculation about Russian influence that has swirled around his administration. Trump’s loyalists remain enamoured of their president, arguing that the media are biased against him and that he is shaking up the rotten ways of Washington. His most fervent critics see him as a threat to American democracy itself. But, beyond the bluster and the polarisation he has provoked, how is Trump actually doing when it comes to following through on the promises he made on the campaign trail? 
Close
 One of Trump's successes was getting conservative judge Neil Gorsuch sworn in to take a place on the Supreme Court AP / 1 The Great Wall of Trump Status: pending No campaign trail pledge was as famous as Trump’s insistence that he would build a wall across the southern border with Mexico. He said, repeatedly, that Mexico would pay. As with many of Trump’s campaign promises, once he came into office, things weren’t quite as simple. The main problem with the wall is its cost, projected at around $21bn. Fiscally conservative Republicans are baulking at the bill. Meanwhile, virtually no-one believes Mexico will ultimately pay, despite Trump’s sloganeering. The depth of Republican scepticism about the plan was demonstrated just this week, as Congress grappled with a new spending bill in order to prevent the government from shutting down. The White House made it known that it would not seek funding of the wall as part of that push, in essence postponing the project to the autumn. Still, the president is insistent that it will all come good in the end. “Don’t let the fake media tell you that I have changed my position on the WALL,” he tweeted on Tuesday. “It will get built and help stop drugs, human trafficking, etc.” 2 Travel Ban a.k.a. ‘Muslim Ban’ Status: bogged down in courts If the border wall with Mexico was Trump’s most famous campaign pledge, the concept of a Muslim ban was surely his most infamous. He drew criticism from across the political spectrum in December 2015 when he called for a “total and complete shutdown of all Muslims from entering the United States”. Trump was in power only a week when he issued executive orders banning most travellers from seven predominantly Muslim nations for at least 90 days, as well as barring all refugees from Syria indefinitely. The outcry was immediate and vast, with protesters taking to streets and airports. Liberals celebrated when a judge in Washington State handed Trump a defeat, placing a nationwide stay on the order. The president promptly lambasted the “so-called judge” — a turn of phrase that raised new concerns about the independence of the judiciary. In due course, Trump came back with a revised ban. This, too, got bogged down in the courts, and remains so. Some aides to Trump point fingers at the president’s chief strategist Steve Bannon for pushing for what they have come to see as a pointlessly inflammatory policy. 3 A judge on the Supreme Court Status: done The US Supreme Court, often overlooked in international coverage of American politics, is as vital an institution as either chamber of Congress. Under normal circumstances, the court comprises nine judges, each appointed for life. The February 2016 death of one of its members, Antonin Scalia, a conservative, kicked off a major battle on Capitol Hill. Then-President Obama nominated Merrick Garland to fill the vacancy. No liberal firebrand, Garland had earned praise from members of both parties. But Republicans in the US Senate, most notably Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, refused to move his nomination process forward, arguing that the choice should fall to the next president. With a Supreme Court seat up for grabs, even conservatives who were deeply sceptical of Trump held their noses last November and voted for him. McConnell’s plan worked. Trump nominated Neil Gorsuch to the court at the end of January. Gorsuch sailed through Congress and took his place on the bench earlier this month. He is a mainstream conservative. Aged just 49, he will likely be on the court for decades, extending Trump’s influence long after the 45th president has left the White House. 4 Healthcare Status: uncertain The crowning domestic achievement of Barack Obama’s presidency was the Affordable Care Act, also known as ObamaCare. The largest expansion of health insurance in half a century, it passed Congress in March 2010 after an enormous legislative struggle. It has increased the number of Americans with health insurance by around 20 million. Republicans, however, have long condemned it as an example of big-government overreach. Trump’s attempt to repeal it became the biggest congressional fiasco of his first 100 days. The attempt fell apart because of fractures within his own Republican Party: hardline conservatives did not feel the replacement plan went far enough, and some on the centre-right thought it went too far. The bill was ultimately withdrawn before a vote, as it faced certain defeat. The whole episode was a huge embarrassment for the plan’s architect, House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan, and for his closest ally in the White House, chief of staff Reince Priebus. This week has seen an attempt to resuscitate the effort gain momentum, but it is too early to assess the chances of success. 5 American military strength Status: mixed Trump often argued on the campaign trail that Obama had allowed the military to atrophy — and that the Democrat was too reluctant to use it. Trump’s conduct of foreign affairs is clearly ­going to be different from Obama’s. The most glaring example so far was his decision to mount a missile strike on a Syrian airfield after a chemical attack apparently perpetrated by forces loyal to President Bashar al-Assad. Trump’s action in ­Syria won plaudits even from some erstwhile ­critics. But Trump has been anything but ­consistent on the issue. Back in 2013, he tweeted at Obama not to get involved in Syria. His travel ban, noted above, barred all Syrian refugees. How Trump’s impetuous tendencies work in relation to complex challenges like the one poised by North Korea remains to be seen. More broadly, he has drawn scorn from some quarters by suggesting his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, a wealthy 36-year-old developer, should attempt to “do peace” between Israel and the Palestinians. Kushner’s internal strength in the White House derives from his marriage to Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter, and by all appearances the child to whom he is closest. 6 Illegal Immigration Status: Numbers are falling Trump’s immigration policies didn’t stop with the wall or the travel ban. He has sought to toughen the US approach to illegal immigrants more broadly. In February, he signed two executive orders which, combined, provided for 15,000 more immigration enforcement agents. The orders also made more illegal immigrants targets for deportation. Trump has taken aim at so-called “sanctuary cities” as well. The label is applied to jurisdictions where, basically, law enforcement agencies and other municipal authorities do not scrutinise the immigration status of residents. While liberal groups have reacted with outrage to these measures, the White House believes they have been effective in changing the atmosphere on the topic. According to the Department of Homeland Security, the flow of illegal border crossings fell by 40pc in February — Trump’s first full month in office. A study by the independent Pew Research Center, released this week, estimated the total number of illegal immigrants in the United States to have fallen to its lowest level since 2009. 7 Jobs Status: Much credit taken For all of Trump’s most headline-making statements on the campaign trail, it was his promise to lift economic distress and bring jobs back to the American heartland that may have won him the election. Since taking office, the new president has made sure to claim virtually every job gain as his own. His assertion earlier this month to have created 600,000 new jobs was treated with scepticism by most experts, who noted that he appeared to be taking credit for all the new jobs in January — a month when Obama was president for roughly twice as many days as Trump. Fact-checkers have also been kept busy with some of Trump’s more specific claims. One NBC News, analysis noted that he had praised car-maker General Motors for “keeping 900 jobs right here in Michigan” in a speech in that state last month — despite the same company also having announced the forthcoming laying-off of 1,100 Michigan workers. Still, as a political matter, Trump’s salesmanship on jobs may work. And, whether he deserves credit or not, the most recent official US unemployment figures, for March, showed 4.5pc unemployment. That is the lowest rate seen since May 2007. 8 Tax Reform Status: Late rush to action The final week before Trump’s 100-day landmark saw a sprint by the administration to rack up achievements — or at least demonstrate that progress is being made. So it was with tax reform. On Wednesday, Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin and chief economic advisor Gary Cohn — both veterans of Goldman Sachs — took to the podium of the White House briefing room to release details of the president’s plan. Reporters immediately took issue with the lack of detail in an accompanying one-page document that, as the Washington Post noted, “was less than 200 words and contained just seven numbers”. Still, the plan would bring significant changes if it were enacted. One key provision is the proposed slashing of the corporate tax rate from 35pc to 15pc. A dramatic cut in the US corporate tax rate has been on the cards for years, and could have clear implications for Ireland. When it comes to the current system of income tax for individuals, Trump wants to simplify, reducing seven tax bands to three. Trump will need to win congressional approval for the plan, which is by no means guaranteed — especially when one group that costed the proposal suggested it would deprive the US government coffers of $5.5 trillion over 10 years. Trump aides say the plan, if enacted, would ignite explosive growth. 9 Free Trade Status: Active The ferocity of Trump’s criticism of free-trade agreements on the campaign trail was a huge electoral success. It helped him to victory in traditionally Democratic ‘Rust Belt’ states like Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania where pacts such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) are blamed for job losses. NAFTA made big news this week when Trump signalled he could pull out of the pact. He had described it, while running as a candidate, as “a disaster” and has only tempered his language very slightly since then. This week’s speculation about a US withdrawal triggered hurried phone calls with Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau and Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto. Ultimately, Trump said he would not back out “at this time”, but a significant renegotiation of NAFTA is clearly on the table. Trump has already made one big move on free trade — in his first week in office, he withdrew the US from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) deal. Opposition to TPP was one of the few areas of common ground between Trump and those on the left of American politics, including Vermont senator Bernie Sanders, who mounted an unexpectedly strong challenge to Hillary Clinton during the Democratic primary. 10 ‘Make America Great Again’ Status: Jury still out The slogan that adorned Trump’s red baseball caps during the campaign was nebulous. Trump’s influence on American life has already been a deep one and it will continue to be felt — especially in terms of the tenor in which political debates are conducted. The impact of his actual policies, however, is not yet fully visible. For all the president’s ebullience, a huge number of his fellow citizens are deeply unimpressed. He has the worst polling ratings of any president of the modern era at this point in his presidency. In the current polling averages, only around 42pc of Americans approve of his job performance. Not that Trump would accept those findings. He complained on Monday about “fake news polls” — on Twitter, of course. Indo Review 
