trump
{ Gaby Wood 
    January 14 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/thinking-big-with-nys-top-trump-26283632.html }
'GOOD morning, Trump Organisation?" On the 26th floor of the most egocentric skyscraper in New York, a man walks through the foyer trailing a large black container behind him. The box has 'fragile' stickers all over it and looks as though it might contain a weapon of some kind. "Oh," sighs the receptionist in delight, "the trumpet!" At least that's what I think she says - until the man opens the box, peels back layers of packaging and reveals not a musical instrument but a Trump head . . . an enormous cartoonish likeness of her boss. The receptionist takes a furtive glance around her golden desk and says: "Can I try it on?" And who wouldn't want to know what it feels like to be The Donald, as he is affectionately known, mainly by himself? If he is to be believed, he is a multibillionaire. He lives in what is thought to be the most expensive apartment in New York, a three-storey penthouse 40 floors above his office - with a marble fountain to rival the Trevi in his living room and a complete floor for his nine-month-old son Barron (decorated in Louis XIV yellow damask). Trump is married to a model almost half his age. Thanks to the outlandish success of his TV show, The Apprentice, he has been deemed worthy of a star on the Hollywood 'Walk of Fame'. Perhaps most astoundingly, he gets away with That Hair. Yet there is something curious about the costume. You would have thought that Trump, the least publicity-shy celebrity since Madonna, would lend himself naturally to caricature. But the Trump head looks less like a Spitting Image puppet than Trump himself. He is, it seems, beyond caricature; he has transcended it by doing all the work himself. In the recently published collection of Spy magazine parodies, sometime editors Kurt Andersen and Graydon Carter reminisced that, whenever Trump threatened to sue when they joked about him in the Eighties, "it was like talking to the TV during Looney Tunes and having Daffy Duck reply." Via antechambers of sleek-looking ladies, I am led to the man himself. He is sitting behind a desk made of ultra-expensive wood, which has been polished until it looks like plastic. The desk is the size of a small swimming pool, an arrangement that obviates the need for a handshake. (Among Trump's top tips are: 'Think big', 'Be paranoid', 'Have a short attention span' and 'Avoid the handshake whenever possible', none of which bodes well for an interview.) He is wearing a Brioni suit with a demure silver tie - and his hair has taken on the unplaceable tinge of the marble in the Trump Tower lobby. Orange? Beige? Dusky pink? Whatever it is, it's presumably designed to go with gold. In a corner of the room is a perspex box containing a scale model of Trump behind a desk, firing a young woman. "How much time do you need for this interview?" he says by way of a greeting. "Because I'm closing a big deal." Time being money, Trump springs up to hand me some propaganda: glossy brochures featuring Trump Towers, Trump Palaces, Trump Plazas, Trump Hotels and Trump Golf Clubs all over North America - correction, the World. "I'll get you a biography, too." Well, I mutter, I've read several of your autobiographies and . . . "This'll be a little easier for you. MEREDITH!" Trump has what some of his employees refer to as an open-door policy; its main function seems to be that he can shout at them through it. "Would you get me a biography please!" Meredith McIver, one of the assistants who doubles as his ghost writer, scuttles in with a few sheets of paper, on which a company bio is printed in bold and written in similar fashion. "Today, I'm in all the papers," he says. "You saw the amount of press? Beyond belief - every major show, every everything. You check me on the internet I guess, do you? Does your machine explode?" Barely a day goes by in New York when Trump is not in the news. Earlier in the week, there was a full page in the New York Post about a new construction site of his where 19th-century human remains had been found, prompting a delay and a number of fine metaphors about skeletons in closets, ancestors turning in graves, bodies Trump must have trampled on to get where he is today and the like. But it's true: the day we meet, Trump is on the front page of all the tabloids. Miss USA, the title holder in a franchise he owns, had been involved in an under-age drinking scandal. Trump was expected to issue the edict for which he has become famous: you're fired! Instead, he called a press conference and forgave the girl (who bore more than a passing resemblance to at least two of his wives). Hey presto: publicity. "I had no idea it was going to be this kind of behemoth," Trump marvels, "in terms of the press that it got. It's crazy - the biggest story everywhere. And frankly, that's not bad for the franchise." Is that why you forgave her? "No. I did it because it was the right thing to do. It's all about second chances. A lot of people come to New York thinking it's going to be a bowl of cherries, and most young people, like Miss USA, get a big kick in the ass. It's a very tough place to break." There was a time, not so long ago, when Donald Trump was known as the Comeback Kid - an epithet he used in relation to Miss USA. His second autobiography, published in 1997, is even called The Art of the Comeback. According to a number of accounts, Trump more or less went bankrupt in the early Nineties, a state of affairs he has confessed might be partly attributed to his loss of focus when he had an affair with Marla Maples, soon to be his second wife, and was taken to the cleaners by Ivana, his first. He was reportedly bailed out by his three surviving siblings, who had also been left money by their father, a real-estate developer whom Trump followed into the family business. (His eldest brother died of alcoholism in 1981; and though Trump has his own brand of vodka, he says he has never touched a drop.) I ask him if he forgave Miss USA because he saw himself in her. "Well," he says, "in the early Nineties, I was in a lot of trouble because the real estate markets had collapsed; many of my friends went bankrupt, never to be heard from again. I never went bankrupt, but I was in deep trouble. "Now my company is much bigger, stronger than it ever was before. So I don't view myself as 'comeback'. But thousands of people come to listen to my speeches on success and everything else. Had I had a simple, smooth life, those crowds wouldn't exist." But you wouldn't call that a comeback? I ask. "No, I've had a very steady career, with some interesting market pitfalls." Just then, a waif hovers in to indicate that he's expected on the phone. Trump takes the call. "My man. I'm OK. You saw that thing about Miss USA, I guess? I am. An extremely nice person - like you. So what's going on? Oh, that's phenomenal. That's fantastic. Thanks, Georgie. Are you going to be down there this weekend? Florida, I mean? Well, I'll see you down there. Let's try and play golf." Trump claims to have made a lot of money on the golf course, just by getting to know people and mulling things over while playing. Now he has built four courses of his own and has plans to build a vast one in Scotland, a project that has drawn criticism from environmentalists. He will have none of it. It's a hunting site, he says. They shoot more birdies there now than they ever would on a golf course. Plus, he adds, his mother was from Scotland - the Isle of Lewis. The waif returns. He takes a call on the other line. "Hey. Yeah. Hold on one second." He looks up at me. "Could you give me two seconds?" I step out of his office and stand near the door, a vantage point that allows me a more leisurely inspection of the decorations. Photos of Trump with various celebrities abound - Ronald Reagan, John F Kennedy Jr and, most important, himself, on the cover of Time magazine. And on a table near the window is a porcelain statue of a boxer, with an inscription beneath it: 'Donald Trump, Comeback Kid'. It's hard to know how seriously anyone takes Donald Trump. He is, 'Some people are successful, but nobody knows who they are . . . what's the point? Everybody knows who I am . . . ' in the New York Times's estimation, "the emblematic New Yorker . . . the number one guy in the number one city." Once, at a very high-end New York fashion show, I was surprised to see Trump - no style icon - greeted with great warmth by Vogue editor Anna Wintour, who later wrote: "Donald is in cahoots with those who would portray him as a garish, ego-driven mogul. But anyone who has had meaningful dealings with him will invariably have caught a glimpse of his good-natured, kind-hearted side." One of the most inspired aspects of Trump's narcissism is that he draws attention to himself by claiming to want to make the rest of us rich. Countless books published under his name offer tips on 'how to think like a billionaire'. When it comes to knowing his audience, he is a master. More than a businessman, Trump is an entertainer. When the producer of TV show Survivor approached him in 2003 to make The Apprentice, Trump came into his own - his daily life was already a form of performance art. However, Trump plays both the ringmaster and the attraction. His sole form of communication, it seems, is hyperbole. He shouts or schmoozes, his lips puckering around choice words. At one point in our interview, I asked him which had been more important to him as a child, performing or winning? "Well, they're very similar words," he said. "You know, good performance leads to winning. You perform in order to win." But is he a figure of the New York establishment or a figure of fun? He has made a lot of political contributions in order to build his towers. But is having money enough? And has he got enough money? Forbes magazine puts his fortune at $2.7bn. Trump says: "Read Forbes and double it." Timothy O'Brien, a New York Times writer is being sued for $5bn by Trump over TrumpNation, a book which says Trump is, in fact, worth no more than $250m. A favourite experiment among certain of Trump's detractors is to send him cheques for very small amounts of money to see if he deposits them. He always does. In the lead-up to the American elections in 2000, Trump made it known that he was considering running for president. "The old rich may look down their noses at me," he said then, anticipating accusations of being an arriviste, "but I think they kiss my ass." When I ask him about his presidential aspirations, he says he wasn't really going to run, but "people asked me to". Then he adds cannily (think of the headlines!): "I'd be more inclined to run now than I would have been in 2000." Really? I say, What would you do if you were president? "First, I'd try and solve the problems in the Middle East - that could be solved. It's sad what's happening, but let's go on to another subject." No, I press him, I'm interested to hear his solution. "Well, it can be solved. Everything can be solved - if you have talent." I ask if after September 11, he considered building things a bit lower. "Yeah, it had an impact," he says. "I was going to build a building in Chicago of 150 storeys and I made it 92. New York made a big mistake by building the building they're doing. They should have duplicated the World Trade Centre, but a bit taller and stronger." Our exchange doesn't remotely resemble a conversation. It's more like gunshot. After each of my questions, Trump takes a phone call, or barks an order, or says: "OK, I think we're . . . " as a prelude to showing me the door. I find myself firing things at him just to stop him from finishing the sentence. Now, about your hair, I begin. "It's all mine!" he cries, lifting his fringe to show his grey roots. Um, yes, I see, I say, distracted. But that's not what I was going to ask. At photographer Helmut Newton's memorial service in 2004, super-designer Tom Ford reportedly spent all evening telling Trump's then-fiancee Melania that she had to do something about Trump's hair. How many people had advised him to change it? "Uhh . . . not many," he says, patting it back into shape. "Hey look, I have the hottest show on TV. I wonder if I changed it, maybe the show wouldn't be so hot." Who does it for you? I ask. "Mostly my wife just cuts it." The style has lasted longer than any of the wives - he's on his third. "And by the way," he adds, "she thinks it's wonderful. You know why? 'Cos she's intelligent. In other words, even if it isn't, she wants to make me happy." I tell him futurologist Marian Salzman has described him as the ultimate "ubersexual". Would he say that was accurate? "What does that mean?" he snaps, as if it were clearly an insult. Well, I suppose it means you're sexy, I suggest. "Oh," he purrs, the slipperiest of smiles spreading across his lips, "Well, tell her I like her also. I want a copy of that book. MEREDITH!" Suddenly, his assistant is behind me. "There's a woman called . . . " Trump nods at me for the information. "She wrote a book called . . . " Another nod. "Get it! She said nice things. She said I'm the ultimate . . . whatever. Write her a letter, I'll thank her!" Eventually, Trump gives up trying to ease me out of his office. He simply stands up and says he has to go. Just one more question, I insist. If no one were looking at you, do you think you'd still exist? For once, Donald Trump pauses. He brings his palms together in front of his mouth and says: "No. Because - honestly - I wouldn't have any fun. There are people who are successful, but nobody knows who they are, and I say what's the purpose? Everybody knows who I am." ©Guardian 
