trump
{ Editorial 
    January 21 2017 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/editorial/mr-trump-goes-to-washington-and-scares-the-world-35385712.html }
Surreal and scary. The inauguration of Donald Trump as US president was the moment when anybody who didn't believe this TV drama was playing out for real finally had their wake-up call. It happened. Mr Trump is the president of the United States. It is churlish to argue against the outcome of November's election. The electoral college system that operates in the States means he won fair and square, even if he lost the popular vote by almost three million votes. 
In Pictures: Inauguration Day as Trump becomes 45th President of the US Close
 US President Barack Obama(R) and First Lady Michelle Obama(L) welcome Preisdent-elect Donald Trump(2nd-R) and his wife Melania to the White House  AFP/Getty Images US President Barack Obama(R) and First Lady Michelle Obama(L) welcome Preisdent-elect Donald Trump(2nd-L) and his wife Melania(2nd-R) to the White House  AFP/Getty Images US President Barack Obama(R) and First Lady Michelle Obama(2nd-L) welcome Preisdent-elect Donald Trump(L) and his wife Melania(2nd-R) to the White House AFP/Getty Images US President Barack Obama(R) and First Lady Michelle Obama(L) welcome Preisdent-elect Donald Trump(2nd-R) and his wife Melania to the White House AFP/Getty Images US President Barack Obama(R) and First Lady Michelle Obama(L) welcome President-elect Donald Trump(2nd-R) and his wife Melania(2nd-L) to the White House  AFP/Getty Images US President Barack Obama(R) and First Lady Michelle Obama(L) welcome Preisdent-elect Donald Trump(2nd-R) and his wife Melania to the White House AFP/Getty Images US President-elect Donald Trump and his wife Melania leave St. John's Episcopal Church on January 20, 2017, before Trump's inauguration.  AFP/Getty Images US President-elect Donald Trump and his wife Melania leave St. John's Episcopal Church on January 20, 2017, before Trump's inauguration.  AFP/Getty Images US President-elect Donald Trump and his wife Melania speak with Reverend Luis Leon as they leave St. John's Episcopal Church  AFP/Getty Images US President-elect Donald Trump and his wife Melania leave St. John's Episcopal Church on January 20, 2017, before Trump's inauguration.  AFP/Getty Images US President-elect and his wife Melania leave St. John's Episcopal Church on January 20, 2017, before Trump's inauguration. / AFP PHOTO / Nicholas KammNICHOLAS KAMM/AFP/Getty Images AFP/Getty Images US President Barack Obama(R) and First Lady Michelle Obama(L) welcome Preisdent-elect Donald Trump(2nd-R) and his wife Melania to the White House AFP/Getty Images Tiffany Trump(C) and the Trump family arrive for the Inauguration of Donald Trump in Washington, DC on Janury 20, 2017.  AFP/Getty Images President-elect Donald Trump(C)is greeted by President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama(L) as he arrives at the White House  AFP/Getty Images President-elect Donald Trump(C)is greeted by US President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama(L) as he arrives at the White House  AFP/Getty Images US President Barack Obama(R) and First Lady Michelle Obama(L) welcome Preisdent-elect Donald Trump(2nd-L) and his wife Melania(2nd-R) to the White House  AFP/Getty Images US President Barack Obama(R) and First Lady Michelle Obama(2nd-L) welcome Preisdent-elect Donald Trump(L) and his wife Melania(2nd-R) to the White House AFP/Getty Images US President Barack Obama(R) and First Lady Michelle Obama(L) welcome President-elect Donald Trump(2nd-R) and his wife Melania(2nd-L) to the White House  AFP/Getty Images US President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama prepare to greet President-elect Donald Trump and his wife Melania to the White House  AFP/Getty Images US Vice President Joe Biden and his wife Jill walk through the colonnade at the White House WATSON/AFP/Getty Images AFP/Getty Images US President Barack Obama waves as he walks through the colonnade as he departs the Oval Office for the last time as president, at the White House AFP/Getty Images President-elect Donald Trump (C),and his wife Melania Trump (L), are greeted by President Barack Obama (R), and his wife first lady Michelle Obama, upon arriving at the White House on January 20, 2017 in Washington, DC. Later in the morning President-elect Trump will be sworn in as the nation's 45th president during an inaugural ceremony at the U.S. Capitol.  (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images) Getty Images President-elect Donald Trump gives a thumbs up, as his wife Melania Trump (C), first lady Michelle Obama, upon arriving at the White House on January 20, 2017 in Washington, DC. Later in the morning President-elect Trump will be sworn in as the nation's 45th president during an inaugural ceremony at the U.S. Capitol.   (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images) Getty Images Vice President Joe Biden and Dr. Jill Biden leaves the White House for the final time as the nation prepares for the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump on January 20, 2017 in Washington, D.C.  Trump becomes the 45th President of the United States.  (Photo by Kevin Dietsch-Pool/Getty Images) Getty Images  President-elect Donald Trump (2ndR),and his wife Melania Trump (2ndL), are greeted by President Barack Obama and his wife first lady Michelle Obama, upon arriving at the White House on January 20, 2017 in Washington, DC. Later in the morning President-elect Trump will be sworn in as the nation's 45th president during an inaugural ceremony at the U.S. Capitol. Getty Images President Barak Obama leaves the White House for the final time as President as the nation prepares for the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump on January 20, 2017 in Washington, D.C.  Trump becomes the 45th President of the United States. (Photo by Kevin Dietsch-Pool/Getty Images) Getty Images President Barak Obama leaves the White House for the final time as President as the nation prepares for the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump on January 20, 2017 in Washington, D.C.  Trump becomes the 45th President of the United States. (Photo by Kevin Dietsch-Pool/Getty Images) Getty Images President Barak Obama leaves the White House for the final time as President as the nation prepares for the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump on January 20, 2017 in Washington, D.C.  Trump becomes the 45th President of the United States. (Photo by Kevin Dietsch-Pool/Getty Images) Getty Images Former U.S. President Bill Clinton and First Lady Hillary Clinton arrive for the Presidential Inauguration of Trump at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., U.S., January 20, 2017. REUTERS/Saul Loeb/Pool REUTERS George and Laura Bush attend the inauguration ceremonies to swear in Donald Trump as the 45th president of the United States at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, U.S., January 20, 2017. REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque REUTERS President-elect Donald Trump's children look for the seats before the 58th Presidential Inauguration at the U.S. Capitol for President-elect Donald Trump in Washington, Friday, Jan. 20, 2017. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh) AP Former president Bill Clinton and former Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton arrive at inauguration ceremonies swearing in Donald Trump as the 45th president of the United States on the West front of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, U.S., January 20, 2017. REUTERS/Carlos Barria  REUTERS Former Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and her husband, former U.S. President Bill Clinton (L), greet U.S. Supreme Court Justices as they attend the presidential inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, U.S., January 20, 2017. REUTERS/Carlos Barria REUTERS Supreme Court Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, (back row front), Stephen Breyer, (back row center), Samuel Alito, (back row, top), Chief Justice John Roberts (C), Anthony Kennedy (front row middle) and Clarence Thomas (front row top) REUTERS/Brian Snyder REUTERS Former U.S. President Bill Clinton (L) looks on as former U.S. President George W. Bush hugs justice Clarence Thomas (R) as they attend the presidential inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, U.S., January 20, 2017. REUTERS/Carlos Barria REUTERS President-elect Donald Trump's children, from left, Tiffany, Donald Trump Jr. and Ivanka Trump arrive for the 58th Presidential Inauguration at the U.S. Capitol for President-elect Donald Trump in Washington, Friday, Jan. 20, 2017. (AP Photo/Matt Rourke) AP Former U.S. President George W. Bush arrives for the Presidential Inauguration of Trump at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C., U.S., January 20, 2017. REUTERS/Saul Loeb/Pool REUTERS The Presidential motorcade drives on Pennsylvania Avenue to the Capitol for the Inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump, Friday, Jan. 20, 2017, in Washington. (AP Photo/Cliff Owen) AP Hillary and Bill Clinton attend the inauguration ceremonies to swear in Donald Trump as the 45th president of the United States at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, U.S., January 20, 2017. REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque REUTERS Former President George W. Bush and his wife Laura arrive for the 58th Presidential Inauguration at the U.S. Capitol for President-elect Donald Trump in Washington, Friday, Jan. 20, 2017. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky) AP U.S. President Donald Trump and first lady Melania attend the Inaugural luncheon at the National Statuary Hall in Washington, U.S, January 20, 2017.   REUTERS/Yuri Gripas REUTERS President Barack Obama and Vice-President Joe Biden stand with Donald Trump's family during inauguration ceremonies swearing in Donald Trump as the 45th president of the United States on the West front of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, U.S., January 20, 2017.  REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson  REUTERS U.S. President Donald Trump and first lady Melania attend the Inaugural luncheon at the National Statuary Hall in Washington, U.S, January 20, 2017.    REUTERS/Yuri Gripas REUTERS U.S. President Donald Trump and his wife Melania (in blue) stand for the singing of the U.S. National Anthem during Donald Trump's inauguration ceremony at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, U.S., January 20, 2017. REUTERS/Carlos Barria REUTERS U.S. President Donald Trump and first lady Melania attend the Inaugural luncheon at the National Statuary Hall in Washington, U.S, January 20, 2017.  REUTERS/Yuri Gripas REUTERS U.S. President Donald Trump and first lady Melania attend the Inaugural luncheon at the National Statuary Hall in Washington, U.S, January 20, 2017.    REUTERS/Yuri Gripas - TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY REUTERS U.S. President Donald Trump and first lady Melania attend the Inaugural luncheon at the National Statuary Hall in Washington, U.S, January 20, 2017.  REUTERS/Yuri Gripas REUTERS Former Democratic U.S. presidential nominee Hillary Clinton greets First lady Melania Trump as her husband Bill Clinton speaks with President Donald Trump during the Inaugural luncheon at the National Statuary Hall in Washington, U.S, January 20, 2017.  REUTERS/Yuri Gripas REUTERS U.S. President Donald Trump and First lady Melania take their seats for the Capitol Hill luncheon following his inauguration in Washington, U.S, January 20, 2017.  REUTERS/Yuri Gripas REUTERS President Donald Trump's wife Melania Trump adjusts their son Barron's tie during the 58th Presidential Inauguration at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, Friday, Jan. 20, 2017. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik) AP Newly sworn in President Donald Trump with his wife first lady Melania Trump, shakes hands with Hillary Clinton, as they arrive for the inaugural luncheon at the Statuary Hall in the Capitol, Friday, Jan. 20, 2017, in Washington.  (AP Photo/Manuel Balce Ceneta) AP Outgoing U.S. first lady Michelle Obama listens with outgoing President Barack Obama (L) to incoming President Donald Trump speak during inauguration ceremonies at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, U.S., January 20, 2017. REUTERS/Carlos Barria  REUTERS President Donald Trump and former president Barack Obama stand on the steps of the Capitol in Washington (Rob Carr/Pool Photo via AP) AP U.S. President Donald Trump and first lady Melania stand with Vice President Mike Pence and his wife Karen Pence during the Inaugural luncheon at the National Statuary Hall in Washington, U.S, January 20, 2017.  REUTERS/Yuri Gripas REUTERS Former Democratic U.S. presidential nominee Hillary Clinton greets First lady Melania Trump as her husband Bill Clinton speaks with President Donald Trump during the Inaugural luncheon at the National Statuary Hall in Washington, U.S, January 20, 2017.  REUTERS/Yuri Gripas REUTERS U.S. President-elect Donald Trump arrives on the platform to be sworn in as the 45th president of the United States on the West front of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, U.S., January 20, 2017. REUTERS/Carlos Barria REUTERS President Barack Obama greets (L-R) Melania, Tifffany and Ivanka Trump prior to the inauguration of Donald Trump as the 45th president of the United States on the West front of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, U.S., January 20, 2017. REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson  REUTERS President Donald Trump shakes hands with Justice John Roberts (R) after taking the oath at inauguration ceremonies swearing in Trump as the 45th president of the United States on the West front of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, U.S., January 20, 2017. REUTERS/Carlos Barria REUTERS / More Americans voted for Hillary Clinton than any other losing presidential candidate in US history. It doesn't matter. 
Close
 U.S. Rep. Jackie" Speier (C) and another woman wear their pink protest hats, symbols of the anti-Trump women's march, as people gather prior to U.S. President-elect Donald Trump's inauguration as the nation's 45th president in Washington, U.S., January 20, 2017.    REUTERS/Brian Snyder   REUTERS / Mr Trump is president. The protests against his election on the basis that he didn't win the popular vote were pointless and naïve. The disgust towards his expressed views will now be replaced by opposition to his policies in power. 
Close
 Participants of a rally regarding women's rights hold placards as they march in Wellington, New Zealand, January 21, 2017 the day after Donald Trump's inauguration as President of the United States.    Joshua Gimblett/Handout via REUTER REUTERS / Mr Trump made it clear he isn't going to temper his stances now that he is president.  He knows he is president because he didn't temper his stances. 
Close
 Police officers pepper spray a group of protestors before the inauguration of President-elect Donald Trump January 20, 2017 in Washington, DC.   AFP PHOTO / ZACH GIBSONZACH GIBSON/AFP/Getty Images AFP/Getty Images / Yesterday, in his inauguration speech, he had the opportunity to bind the wounds of an incredibly divisive election. He chose to thrust the knife even deeper. He certainly can't be accused of being a hypocrite. If he had been reasonable and unifying, then he would have been accused of being captured by Washington. Mr Trump played to his audience and made it clear he will focus on his base. Surrounded by former presidents, he spoke about taking back the power from Washington and giving it back to the people. However, the parish-pump protectionism policy Mr Trump outlined was heard across the world. Not since the famous aviator Charles Lindbergh was the high-profile spokesman of the America First Committee, the non-interventionist organisation opposed to US entry into World War II, has such an isolationist policy been given such a prominent platform. It was no accident he chose the phrase "America First" to evoke an era before the United States became the world's police. Not any more. He made it clear America will only act to protect its own interests. Frequently for better, but often for worse also, the US has been the foremost global superpower for three quarters of a century. The mere mention of US intervention was enough to resolve some conflicts. But the protection of democratic principles enshrined in the leadership roles it adopted in World War II and the Korean War have been tarnished by less benign actions in Central America, South East Asia and the Middle East. In this country, we saw the positive influence of US foreign policy with the involvement of successive governments, most notably under Bill Clinton, in the Northern Ireland peace process. Now it is unclear if America will even become involved on a diplomatic level.  Mr Trump goes to Washington and the rest of the world becomes a scarier place. Irish Independent 
