trump
{ By AP Reporter 
    September 30 2019 10:51 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/trump-sought-australian-pms-help-on-russia-probe-38550203.html }
President Donald Trump recently asked the Australian prime minister and other foreign leaders to help Attorney General William Barr with an investigation into the origins of the Russia probe that shadowed his administration for more than two years, the Justice Department said on Monday. The revelation underscores the extent to which Mr Trump remains consumed by special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation, and the ways in which he has used the apparatus of the United States government to investigate what he believes are its politically motivated origins. It also highlights Mr Barr’s hands-on role in leading that investigation, including traveling overseas for personal meetings with foreign law enforcement officials. Mr Trump’s interactions with foreign leaders — and Mr Barr’s role in those discussions — are under heightened scrutiny now that the House has launched an impeachment inquiry into the president. The probe centres on Mr Trump’s summertime call with Ukraine’s president, revealed by a whistleblower CIA intelligence officer, in which Mr Trump presses for help investigating Democrat Joe Biden. Mr Trump has heaped praise on Mr Barr since he took the helm of the Justice Department earlier this year, viewing him as a key ally for his political agenda, including his push to “investigate the investigators” in the Russia probe. But the Justice Department has denied Mr Barr had any knowledge that Mr Trump encouraged Ukraine to work with him on a separate investigation into Mr Biden. The president has sought, without evidence, to implicate the Bidens in the kind of corruption that has long plagued Ukraine. Hunter Biden served on the board of a Ukrainian gas company at the same time his father was leading the Obama administration’s diplomatic dealings with Kiev. Though the timing raised concerns among anti-corruption advocates, there has been no evidence of wrongdoing by either the former vice president or his son. There is no evidence that Mr Biden’s son was ever under investigation in Ukraine. The July 25 call by Trump to Ukrainian leader Volodymyr Zelenskiy prodding him to dig up dirt on Mr Biden was separate from the numerous conversations Mr Trump had with foreign leaders as part of the investigation into the Russia probe. Justice spokeswoman Kerri Kupec said Mr Trump made those calls on Mr Barr’s behalf. “At Attorney General Barr’s request, the President has contacted other countries to ask them to introduce the Attorney General and Mr. Durham to appropriate officials,” Mr Kupec said. Mr Trump was requesting help for US Attorney John Durham’s investigation into the origins of special counsel Mr Mueller’s probe into Russian interference in the 2016 election. The investigation outraged Mr Trump, who cast it as a politically motivated “witch hunt.” Durham’s investigation has been cheered by Trump allies, who believe the original FBI probe into Russia’s election interference was driven by Democrats. As part of his investigation, Mr Durham is examining what led the US to open a counterintelligence investigation on the Trump campaign and the roles various countries played in that probe. The attorney general’s presence on the trip exemplifies how much of an active role the nation’s chief law enforcement officer is taking in overseeing the investigation. Mr Mueller wrapped up his report earlier this year with an inconclusive finding about Mr Trump. The president was not charged with any crimes, but Mr Mueller pointedly said he did not exonerate Mr Trump. The president promptly called for an investigation into the origins of the Mueller probe. Justice officials said that has involved seeking help from numerous foreign countries, including Australia. The FBI’s counterintelligence investigation that later became the Mueller probe was triggered, in part, from a tip from an Australian diplomat. George Papadopoulos, a former Trump campaign adviser, had told the diplomat, Australia’s then High Commissioner to London Alexander Downer, in May 2016 that Russia had thousands of stolen emails that would be potentially damaging to Hillary Clinton. Mr Papadopoulos, who served as a foreign policy adviser to Trump’s campaign, had learned from a Maltese professor that Russia had “dirt” on Mrs Clinton in the form of stolen emails. The FBI’s investigation into potential coordination between Russia and the Trump campaign later morphed into part of Mr Mueller’s probe. One official said Trump told Prime Minister Scott Morrison that the attorney general would be contacting his Australian counterpart. The Australian government has always been ready to assist and cooperate with efforts that help shed further light on the matters under investigationScott Morrison's office Morrison’s office said in a statement, “The Australian government has always been ready to assist and cooperate with efforts that help shed further light on the matters under investigation.” “The PM confirmed this readiness once again in conversation with the President,” the statement said, referring to Morrison. Mr Papadopoulos pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about the 2016 conversation with the professor, Joseph Mifsud, and served a nearly two-week sentence in federal prison. PA Media 
