trump
{ Andy Sullivan 
    July 24 2017 07:40 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/north-america/president-trump/kushner-trump-jr-and-manafort-face-intelligence-committee-grilling-this-week-heres-all-you-need-to-know-35960751.html }
President Donald Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, faces two days of closed-door questioning from Congress this week as lawmakers try to determine whether Trump's campaign enlisted Russia's help to win the White House in last year's election. Another congressional panel, the Senate Judiciary Committee, is negotiating with Manafort and Trump Jr. about testifying in a public hearing. Here is the latest you need to know before questioning begins:  Kushner, a senior White House adviser, is expected to face questions about his contacts with Russian citizens and officials when he testifies before the Senate Intelligence Committee on Monday and the House of Representatives Intelligence Committee on Tuesday. Kushner will also face questions about reports he tried to set up a secret back channel to Moscow, as well as other contacts with top Russian officials and business leaders during the presidential campaign and the transition period before he took office. "We have a lot of ground to cover," Representative Adam Schiff, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, said on CBS' "Face the Nation" on Sunday. Trump has been dogged by allegations that his campaign aides worked with Russia, which U.S. intelligence agencies have accused of interfering in last year's election. The issue has dominated Washington and divided his White House, distracting from his efforts to overhaul healthcare, restructure the tax code and rebuild the nation's crumbling infrastructure. Moscow has denied any interference, and Trump says his campaign did not collude with Russia. Trump Jr., his father's former campaign manager Paul Manafort and Jared Kushner, the president's son-in-law and one of his senior advisers, met with Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya in June 2016. That meeting was held in Trump Tower in New York after the lawyer offered damaging information about Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. A federal special counsel and several congressional panels are investigating allegations by U.S. intelligence agencies that Russia meddled in the 2016 U.S. presidential election and potential connections between Russian officials and the Trump campaign. Moscow has denied any interference, and Trump says his campaign did not collude with Russia. Kushner did not initially disclose any meetings with Russians on forms he filed to get a government security clearance. He has since revised those forms several times. Trump's son Donald Trump Jr. released emails earlier this month related to the meeting that showed he appeared to welcome the prospect of damaging information from the Russian government about Trump's Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton. Trump says the investigations in Congress and the Justice Department are politically motivated. "As the phony Russian Witch Hunt continues, two groups are laughing at this excuse for a lost election taking hold, Democrats and Russians!" the president wrote on Twitter on Sunday. The president's oldest son, Donald Trump Jr., has added a lawyer with congressional experience to his legal team, the lawyer told Reuters on Sunday. Trump Jr. has hired Karina Lynch of the law firm Williams and Jensen, Lynch confirmed in an email to Reuters. She did not respond to queries about what her role in the team would be. Lynch's biography on her law firm website describes her as having experience on the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. She was also investigative counsel to Senator Charles Grassley, according to her law firm biography. ABC News reported the hiring earlier on Sunday. Trump Jr. also hired Alan Futerfas as a lawyer after reports detailed meetings last year between Trump Jr. and a Russian lawyer. Representative Adam Schiff, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, said the intelligence panel could ask Kushner to return for further testimony if it still has questions after Tuesday. "We expect this is just going to be the first interview," Schiff said on Sunday.  Reuters 
