trump
{  
    May 08 2011 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/woman/celeb-news/donald-trump-born-in-the-usa-26730835.html }
Obviously, the first thing I noticed about Donald Trump was his hair. The term "comb-over" does not do justice to its bewildering design. His hair appears to be brushed forward, sideways and backwards -- all at the same time. This style -- if that is the appropriate word -- is alleged to be augmented by scalp-reduction surgery, and strategically placed tattoos, as well as by more conventional follicle transplants. Whatever the infrastructure, Trump's hair seems able to defy gravity, and lies inert and prostrate on his head -- ridiculous yet strangely impressive. It is just one of a number of features that reveal his unique blend of personal vanity and public audacity. Ten years ago, I travelled to a small, private airport in New York to start making a film about Trump for the BBC. When he finally arrived, we had been waiting in his jet -- Trump Force One -- for almost an hour. To tell the truth, I was glad of the opportunity this gave me to take a good look around the plane. I opened a door half-way down the aisle. Inside, there was a gold-plated wash basin and a large double bed. There was also a collection of fine Impressionist oil paintings, hanging in heavy gilt frames. I thought that some of these might have been cleaned a little too thoroughly. In fact, they looked as if they were still wet -- though Trump later assured me they were the originals. A sudden flurry of activity meant that he had boarded the plane. I stepped forward to introduce myself and held out my hand. Trump declined to shake it. "It's nothing personal," he told me. "It's just that I don't know where that hand might have been." I wasn't sure whether his comment was calculated as an insult, or if it reflected a genuine pre-occupation with hygiene. Most likely, it only signalled an immediate desire to establish the balance of power in our relationship. We had arranged to fly with Trump to Atlantic City, in New Jersey. He was hosting his annual bash at the Trump Taj Mahal -- supposedly the largest casino on earth. Trump was on the verge of announcing his intention to run for the US presidency as a Reform Party candidate, which was part of the reason we were filming him. Although the Reform Party had been around for decades, it was generally considered to be a bit of a joke. Talk of Trump's possible candidacy had given it a fleeting semblance of credibility. The negotiations with Trump had been long and tortuous, but it seemed that he was still not entirely satisfied with what we had agreed to film. He asked me to sit down beside him. "I hope you don't plan to stitch me up." I told him that wasn't my goal. "One of your colleagues tried to do that once," he said. "You might know her." He mentioned the name of a well-known female presenter, whose career seemed to have waned in recent years. "Yes, I know her." He leaned forward in his seat and looked into my eyes. "What's she doing now?" "I don't know." He grinned as he sat back: "Then, you get my point." Before we began filming, Trump had seemed prepared to co-operate -- even suggesting where we might position our cameras. But shortly after take-off, he called an abrupt halt to our shoot. He said that he had developed a headache and would only be available for further filming after we had reached New Jersey. With that, he moved to the front of the plane to sit with the pilots. Once again, I couldn't help but feel that his actions were part of some contrived power play. After he left, I sat down beside his political advisor, Roger Stone. In his own way, Stone appeared every bit as remarkable as Donald Trump. His hair was also elaborately coiffed. There was certainly a good deal more of it, but, like Trump's, it didn't seem able to move freely. Stone was deeply tanned and had the physique of a dedicated body-builder. He was dressed immaculately, with close attention to detail. Later, he told me that every stitch of his clothing was hand-made to fit the contours of his muscular frame. In fact, he looked as if he had just stepped out of a Seventies' mail-order catalogue. Stone had been involved in conservative politics for decades, as an activist, consultant and lobbyist. He had worked for several US presidents, but his career received a major setback in 1996. He was working on Bob Dole's presidential campaign when the National Enquirer revealed that he and his wife had placed a personal ad in a magazine called Swing Fever. It appeared that a "hot, insatiable lady and her handsome husband" were seeking to meet up with some "exceptionally athletic single men". The ad was accompanied by some very revealing photos. Stone was forced to resign his position as Dole's senior consultant, and, from then on, was regarded as toxic in Washington's political circles. "I'm a conservative," he shrugged, as he recounted the story to me. "But I'm not part of the Christian Right and I've never claimed to be. I like sex in all its manifestations. If that's a crime, then shoot me." Now, he was working for Trump. "He's a conservative, but he's also a libertarian," Stone said. "He wants to keep government out of the boardroom -- and out of the bedroom, too. I can relate to that." Ten years ago, Trump claimed to hold liberal views on a number of social issues -- such as gay rights and abortion. Since then, he has moved closer to the Republican mainstream: he is now vigorously opposed to same-sex marriages and supports the pro-life movement. He also seems to have re-discovered his religious faith. When our plane touched down in Jersey, there was a sleek, black limo waiting to carry us to the Taj Mahal. Before long, we arrived at one of the ugliest buildings I had seen: it made the choice of its name seem utterly cynical, or equally naive. I glanced over the list of in-house restaurants at the entrance elevator. For the most part, they echoed the same grandiose theme: The Sultan's Feast, Royal Albert's Palace, The Dynasty Lounge and -- perhaps, most aptly -- The Ego Bar. As we walked into the main room of the casino, the air was filled with the sound of a low-pitched but relentless drone. It came from the simultaneous operation of more than 3,500 slot machines -- the greatest number collected in any one place in the world. Men and women with glassy eyes sat in silent rows, like members of an arcane cult, feeding the ravenous slots. For some people, this scene might conjure up a vision of hell. But it only served to animate Trump and, before my eyes, he appeared to take on a new and more dynamic persona. As he strode through a series of gaming rooms, he waved, slapped backs, signed copies of his books and appeared, for the first time, to be completely relaxed. We moved upstairs to a function room. This was where a select group of people had gathered to party with Trump. There was just one condition of entry: to be invited, you had to have lost more than $1m gambling in the Taj Mahal in the previous 12 months. You might think that such a collection of individuals would feel disposed to string Trump up from the nearest chandelier. But, instead, he was cheered loudly as he walked among these big-time losers, dispensing largesse to each and every one. I noticed that, on this occasion, he was even prepared to shake their hands. One elderly woman showed me the ring that Trump had just given her. "It must have cost a fortune," she said, her voice trembling with excitement. I agreed it was a wonderful present. "How much did you lose here last year?" "Oh, about two-point-five." "Two-point-five million?" She nodded, happily. I wondered why she liked Trump so much. "Because he's a real man. He's handsome. He's got chutzpah. And he's honest -- but he's honest with a spin. That's what makes him interesting. He's just Spin City." Did she intend to go on gambling at his casino? "You bet I do," she said. "And you know what? I hope I'm back at this party next year." Later, I asked Stone what he thought was the secret of Trump's personal appeal. "He may be a billionaire, but he still comes across like an ordinary Joe. He's not an elitist, or part of any fancy establishment. He's been knocked down a few times, but he's always got back up and he's never complained about the setbacks. He's a winner and people like to get close to that." Of course, Trump hasn't always been a winner. In the early Nineties, his building company owed $3.5bn and he had to file for bankruptcy. He also owed more than $900m in personal debts. But within a few years, he was solvent again. A decade later, Trump filed bankruptcy papers for the second time. Once again, he managed to restructure his colossal debts within a few years, and, according to Forbes Magazine, he is currently reckoned to be worth around $3bn. Trump claims this underestimates his wealth. In a sense, Trump has become his own brand and he seems to leave his name on everything he touches. There are now Trump Towers in Honolulu, Las Vegas, Denver, Toronto, Istanbul and many other cities. You can buy business advice from Trump Financial Services, read Trump Magazine and drink Trump Vodka. You can order frozen Trump Steaks, play golf on one of the Trump National Courses or book your holiday with Go Trump. Recently, he has even started selling Trump Vitamins. At first sight, this may seem like a simple case of rampant megalomania. But, as usual with Trump, the truth is more complicated. "My name is a commercial asset," he told me. "When it's attached to any project, it makes that project more likely to be successful. I use my name because my investors want me to use it." In fact, Trump does not own many of the buildings that are named after him. Other entrepreneurs licence his brand because it helps them to sell their products at a premium rate -- which may explain why there is now such a range of outlets that carry his name. In that context, it somehow seems fitting that his family's original name was not Trump at all, but Drumpf. It appears that a US immigration official misheard Trump's grandfather when he arrived on a boat from Hamburg. I thought that Trump looked happiest when he was in that peculiar zone where commerce and showbiz meet. From an early stage in his career, he has courted public attention. Some people regard this as shameless exhibitionism. But, to the best of my knowledge, Trump is the only property developer to have been nominated for two Emmy awards and to have been given his own star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. His big TV break came, of course, with The Apprentice. Its format is now franchised in 26 territories -- including our own. Trump remains the host and executive producer of the original US version, and has even claimed copyright for the catchphrase: "You're fired." He is reputed to be paid $3m per episode -- more than Charlie Sheen's former pay cheque -- and his show has stayed consistently at the top of the US ratings. Trump has also co-produced and appeared in a number of other TV shows on US networks, and has even acted in several TV series and feature films. When I asked Stone if he thought Trump's appetite for self-promotion was excessive, he quoted Gore Vidal back to me: "There are only two things in life that you should never refuse -- the offer of sex and the chance to appear on television." I travelled back to New York a few days after Trump's party: this time, on a commercial airline. We had arranged to film a fashion shoot with Melania Knauss. She is an extremely attractive and disarmingly likeable model from Slovenia. At that time, she had been in an on-off relationship with Trump for a couple of years. I asked her if she were ever upset by accusations that she was a gold-digger. "But I don't need Donald's money," she told me. "I have my own career. I've just come back from a shoot for Sports Illustrated swimwear edition. I can make money on my own." I mentioned that Trump was almost 25 years older than her. "I never think about that," she said. "Besides, he has the energy of a young man and he is very ... " She paused for a moment to think of the proper English word, then smiled brightly. "Virile." Melania and Trump finally got married in 2005. The bridal gown was designed by John Galliano. It had a 13-foot train, and was so heavy and wide that Melania had to sit on a bench instead of a chair. Wedding guests included Oprah Winfrey, Pavarotti and Elton John. The regular price for the wedding ring was $1.5m, but Trump managed to cut a deal, and bought it for $500,000. They now have a little boy called Barron, and Melania has just launched her own jewellery range on QVC. Meanwhile, Trump has revived his old presidential ambitions. This time round, he has abandoned the Reform Party and is seeking the official Republican nomination. Recent poll ratings have established him as one of the front-runners -- though it has to be said the other possible candidates all seem very weak. In the past few months, Stone has campaigned hard in favour of Trump's nomination. However, he no longer works for him: a fact that Trump has been quick to draw to the attention of the media. He must know that Stone is still considered to be radioactive by many Republicans and that he must distance himself from his former advisor if he is not to be contaminated. But if Stone's history is anything to go by, he relishes the sort of work that is best done by stealth and I would be most surprised if he were not still providing Trump with discreet advice. In recent months, Trump emerged as the leading figure in the so-called "birther" controversy: demanding that President Obama show proof he was born in the USA and is eligible to serve as President. This tactic strikes me as just the sort of diversionary move that Stone would recommend. It generated enough publicity for Obama to feel compelled to release a long-form copy of his birth certificate. Trump hailed this as a personal victory. "I am very proud of myself," he announced. "I have accomplished what nobody else could achieve." But President Obama exacted his revenge a few days later. In a speech given at the White House Correspondents' Annual Dinner, he ridiculed and mocked "the Donald" without mercy. Obama even showed a photoshopped version of how the White House might look if Trump ever became president. The building was lit by gaudy neon, a Jacuzzi had been installed on the front lawn, and bikini-clad hostesses were serving cocktails. Obama suggested that President Trump would re-name 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue the "Trump White House Resort and Casino". Trump was seen to smile at the start of the roast. By the time it was over, it was clear that he was no longer amused. Trump appears to be serious about his candidacy, but I would still be surprised if he eventually chooses to run in the next presidential race. It seems to me that he has simply got too much to lose from the intensive media scrutiny that would inevitably accompany his campaign. There is, to say the least, an embarrassment of scandalous stories for the popular press to feast upon: the bankruptcies, the divorces, the rumoured affairs, the backroom deals, the wild and weird publicity stunts. And let's not forget that insane hair. It might be thought that a few of our home-grown developers have mimicked some of Trump's less-admirable qualities. At the height of the Tiger years, some of them seemed to share his appetite for conspicuous excess and vulgar display. I only hope that a few can now emulate some of Trump's lesser-known virtues: in particular, his ability to bounce back from disaster. Sunday Indo Living 
