trump
{  
    May 24 2017 09:26 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/pope-francis-offers-olive-branch-to-donald-trump-in-vatican-meeting-35750444.html }
 President Donald Trump and Pope Francis, two leaders with contrasting styles and differing worldviews, met at the Vatican City on Wednesday, setting aside their previous clashes to broadcast a tone of peace for an audience around the globe.   Mr  Trump, midway through his gruelling nine-day maiden international journey, called upon the pontiff at the Vatican where the two had a private 30-minute meeting laden with religious symbolism and ancient protocol.   The president, accompanied by his wife and several aides, arrived at the Vatican just after 8am local time.   The president greeted Francis in Sala del Tronetto, the room of the little throne, on the second floor of Apostolic Palace.   Upon completing their meeting, the pope gave the president a medal featuring an olive branch, a symbol of peace, among other gifts.   "We can use peace," the president responded.   The visit began with a handshake between the two men.   Mr Trump could be heard thanking the pope and saying it was "a great honour" to be there.   They then posed for photographs and then sat down at the papal desk, the pope unsmiling, as their private meeting began.   It ended a half hour later when Francis rang the bell in his private study.   The pontiff was then introduced to members of Mr Trump's delegation, including his wife Melania, his daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared Kushner, as well as aides Hope Hicks and Dan Scavino.   Smiling for the staff, Francis had a light moment with the First Lady, asking via translator, "What do you give him to eat, pizza?"   Melania giggled and said "Pizza? Yes."   As is tradition, the pope and president exchanged gifts.   Mr Trump presented the pontiff some books written by Martin Luther King Jr, saying "I think you'll enjoy them. I hope you do."   The pope presented Mr Trump with the medal, a message of peace and three bound papal documents that to some degree define his papacy and priorities.   When Mr Trump departed, he told the pope: "Thank you, I won't forget what you said."   Mr Trump's predecessor, Barack Obama, had a private audience with Francis at the Vatican in 2014 that lasted 50 minutes.   But the timing on Wednesday was tight as Francis had his weekly Wednesday general audience, the thousands of pilgrims on hand forced Mr Trump's motorcade to enter Vatican City from a side entrance rather than the grand entrance through St. Peter's Square.   The meeting, which concluded Mr Trump's tour of the world's largest monotheistic religions, could provide powerful imagery to Catholic voters back in the United States as well as the possibility for conflict between a president and a pope who have not often seen eye-to-eye.   The two collided head-on early last year, when Francis was sharply critical of Mr Trump's campaign pledge to build an impenetrable wall on the Mexican border and his declaration that the United States should turn away Muslim immigrants and refugees.   "A person who thinks only about building walls, wherever they may be, and not building bridges, is not Christian," Francis said then.   The pontiff has been a vocal advocate for aiding refugees, particularly those fleeing the violence in Syria, deeming it both a "moral imperative" and "Christian duty" to help.   Mr Trump then called Francis "disgraceful" for doubting his faith.   Mr Trump arrived in Rome on Tuesday evening, his motorcade closing a busy Italian road just after rush hour and prompting hundreds of onlookers to briefly step out of their gridlocked cars to gawk at the fleet of armoured vehicles.   He spent the night at the US ambassador to Italy's residence.   Though both Mr Trump and Francis are known for their unpredictability, papal visits with heads of state are carefully arranged bits of political and religious theatre that follow a specific programme, with little room for deviation or unwanted surprises.   Mr Trump was expected to be given a tour of the Vatican after his papal meeting.   Mr Trump is the 13th president to visit the Vatican and, as part of his tour, he was due to view the Sistine Chapel.   In recent days, Francis and Mr Trump have been in agreement on a need for Muslim leaders to do more against extremists in their own communities. But there are few other areas where their views align.   The president's prior anti-Muslim rhetoric, including his musing that Islam "hates" the West, is the antithesis of what the pope has been preaching about a need for dialogue with Muslims.   Francis also differs sharply with Mr Trump on the need to combat climate change and economic inequality.   And he could react to events this week, including the release of Mr Trump's budget, which would dramatically cut funding to programmes that help the poor, and the president's agreement to sell military equipment to Saudi Arabia.   Mr Trump's visit to the Eternal City comes after two stops in the Middle East where he visited the cradles of Islam and Judaism.   In Saudi Arabia, he addressed dozens of Arab leaders and urged them to fight extremists at home and isolate Iran, which he depicted as menace to the region.   In Israel, Mr Trump reaffirmed his commitment to strong ties with the nation's longtime ally and urged both the Israelis and the Palestinians to begin the process of reaching a peace deal.   No details or timetable have yet to be established for negotiations.   But while Mr Trump received extravagantly warm welcomes in Riyadh and Jerusalem, the reception could grow much cooler now that he's reached Europe, site of widespread protests after his election.   Climate change activists projected the words Planet Earth First on the massive dome of St Peter's Basilica at the Vatican on Tuesday night and protests are expected on Wednesday in Rome and later in the week when Mr Trump travels to Brussels for a Nato meeting and Sicily for a G7 gathering.   AP  PA Media 
