trump
{ Denise Calnan 
    January 29 2018 08:06 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/north-america/president-trump/article36540956.ece }
U.S. President Donald Trump's first international televised interview since taking office aired last night.  Speaking from the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Piers Morgan questioned Trump on a range of topics including his diet, the Paris Climate Accord and his attitude towards women.  US president Donald Trump insisted he is "extremely popular" in the United Kingdom and receives fan mail from British people "all the time". "I think I'm very popular in your country. I believe that. I get so much fan mail from people in your country, saying that they love my sense of security, they love what I'm saying about many different things. I'm getting tremendous support from people in the UK," he said. When questioned on his attitude towards women, the U.S. President said; "I am for them [women] and I think a lot of them understand that. I won many categories of the female vote and people were shocked to see that as I was running against a woman. "I think I would do even better right now. Polls are up tremendously but I think that is mainly due to the economy. Women have the best employment figures that they've had in years. He also insisted women are supportive of his position on the military as they "want to feel safe at home." "No, I wouldn't say I'm a feminist, that would be, maybe, going too far," he said.  
 
Close
 President Donald Trump. Matt Cardy/PA Wire PA / When questioned about politicians who have publicly stated they do not want him to visit the UK, including Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, he responded: "I don't know them." "Well that's their problem, if they want I could very nicely stay home. I have a very good relationship wit the Prime Minister and I think she has been doing a very good job. We have a very good relationship even though a lot of people think we don't. We will come to your defence if anything should happen." "I have a great situation over in Ireland with Doonbeg", the president told Piers Morgan. The five-star golf resort recently hit headlines after a research firm raised "concerning" payments to Doonbeg and investigators questioned whether Russian mafia money may have been used to finance the Co Clare resort.  When asked about his health and some perceptions that he was insane and physically unfit, Trump said: "I am a stable genius." While he insisted his diet is perfectly fine. "I eat fine food, really from some of the finest chefs in the world, I eat healthy food, I also have some of that food [junk food] on occasion... I think I eat actually quite well." 
 
Close
 Piers Morgan, who interviewed Donald Trump in his first international interview since becoming president of the United States.  Ian West/PA Wire PA / When asked about whether he tweeted from bed with his phone, Trump said: "Well perhaps sometimes in bed, perhaps sometimes at breakfast or lunch or whatever, but generally speak during the early morning, or the evening...I am very busy during the day." Trump frequently uses Twitter to announce policy, assail his adversaries and to tangle with countries, including North Korea, over world affairs. The @realDonaldTrump account had 47.2 million users as of Sunday. "If I don't have that form of communication I can't defend myself," Trump said in THE interview broadcast on Sunday. "I get a lot of fake news, a lot of news that is very false or made up." Trump said he would take a "tougher" approach to Brexit negotiations than British Prime Minister Theresa May. When asked if May was in a "good position" regarding the ongoing Brexit talks, Trump replied: "Would it be the way I negotiate? No, I wouldn't negotiate it the way it's negotiated ... I would have had a different attitude." Pressed on how his approach would be different, he said: "I would have said the European Union is not cracked up to what it's supposed to be. I would have taken a tougher stand in getting out." When asked whether the United States would do a post-Brexit trade deal with the United Kingdom, he said he would. Trump repeated previous statements, saying that he could "go back" into the Paris climate agreement, but he only would if he could get "a good deal" for the US. He called the existing agreement a "terrible deal" and a "disaster" for the US.  "I believe in clean air. I believe in crystal-clear, beautiful … I believe in just having good cleanliness in all. Now, with that being said, if somebody said go back into the Paris accord, it would have to be a completely different deal because we had a horrible deal," he said.  "As usual, they took advantage of the US. We were in a terrible deal. Would I go back in? Yeah, I’d go back in. I like, as you know, I like Emmanuel [Macron]. I would love to, but it’s got to be a good deal for the US." Asked if he believed in climate change, Trump said: "There is a cooling, and there’s a heating.  "I mean look, it used to not be climate change, it used to be global warming. That wasn’t working too well because it was getting too cold all over the place.  "The ice caps were going to melt, they were going to be gone by now, but now they’re setting records. They’re at a record level." Additional reporting by PA, Reuters Online Editors 
