trump
{ Independent.ie Newsdesk and agencies 
    March 09 2018 10:27 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/north-america/president-trump/watch-oh-hes-still-alive-steel-worker-corrects-president-trump-in-awkward-exchange-about-father-36687340.html }
During a press event to announce new import tariffs steel to the the US President Donald Trump declared the father of a steel worker dead only to be told by the man 'Oh, he's still alive'. The awkward exchange took place at the an event in the White House yesterday where President Trump pressed ahead with imposing import tariffs of 25pc on steel and 10pc for aluminum. The announcement was attended by a number of steel workers, including union official Scott Sarge, who took to the podium at President Trump's invitation to speak about how his father Herman, also a steel worker, lost his job in the 1980s due to cheap imports of steel into the US. At the end of Sarge's speech, Trump took the microphone and said: "Your father, Herman, is looking down, he's very proud of you right now."  However, Sarge responded: "Oh, he's still alive." Trump then quickly replied: "Then he's even more proud of you, he's even more proud."  Describing the dumping of steel and aluminum in the U.S. market as "an assault on our country," Trump said that the best outcome would for companies to move their mills and smelters to the United States. He insisted that domestic metals production was vital to national security. "If you don't want to pay tax, bring your plant to the USA," added Trump, flanked by steel and aluminum workers. Plans for the tariffs, set to start in 15 days, have stirred opposition from business leaders and prominent members of Trump's own Republican Party, who fear the duties could spark retaliation from other countries and hurt the U.S. economy. Within minutes of the announcement, U.S. Republican Senator Jeff Flake, a Trump critic, said he would introduce a bill to nullify the tariffs. But that would likely require Congress to muster an extremely difficult two-thirds majority to override a Trump veto. Some Democrats praised the move, including Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia, who said it was "past time to defend our interests, our security and our workers in the global economy and that is exactly what the president is proposing with these tariffs." Trump's unexpected announcement of the tariffs last week roiled stock markets as it raised the prospect of an escalating global trade war. He appeared to have conceded some ground after concerted lobbying by Republican lawmakers, industry groups and U.S. allies abroad. Canada, the largest supplier of both steel and aluminum to the United States, welcomed the news it would not immediately be subject to the tariffs, but vowed to keep pressing Washington until the threat of tariffs had disappeared. Trump offered relief from steel and aluminum tariffs to countries that "treat us fairly on trade," a gesture aimed at putting pressure on Canada and Mexico to give ground in separate talks on renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement. Mexican Economy Minister Ildefonso Guajardo said NAFTA talks were "independent" of Trump's tariff actions and should not be subject to outside pressure. In Beijing, China's Commerce Ministry said on Friday it "resolutely opposed" the tariffs and that they would "seriously impact the normal order of international trade." While Chinese steel exports to the United States have been suppressed by previous anti-dumping duties, the broad "Section 232" national security tariffs are widely seen as aiming to pressure Beijing to cut excess steel and aluminum production capacity that has driven down global prices. U.S. steel stocks, which have gained for weeks on anticipation of the tariffs, fell after the announcement, with the Standard and Poor's composite steel index ending down 2.53 percent against a half percent gain in the broad S&P 500 index. Century Aluminum shares fell 7.5 percent, while Alcoa dipped 0.9 percent. The Canadian dollar and Mexican peso gained slightly against the U.S. dollar. Online Editors 
