trump
{  
    July 22 2018 05:30 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/north-america/president-trump/trump-im-in-clear-over-tape-37141845.html }
US President Donald Trump yesterday denied any wrongdoing after reports that his former attorney had recorded them both discussing buying the rights to a story by a woman who said she had an affair with Trump. The president said it was "perhaps illegal" for a lawyer to record a client. "Inconceivable that the government would break into a lawyer's office (early in the morning) - almost unheard of," Trump tweeted, in an apparent reference to an FBI raid on the office of his former lawyer Michael Cohen in April. "Even more inconceivable that a lawyer would tape a client - totally unheard of & perhaps illegal. The good news is that your favourite President did nothing wrong!" Trump added. Trump's former personal attorney Michael Cohen recorded a conversation with Trump two months before the 2016 election in which they discussed buying the rights to a story by a former Playboy model who said she had an affair with Trump, one of the president's lawyers said last Friday. The recording was part of a large collection of documents and electronic records seized by federal authorities from the former Trump fixer earlier this year. Cohen had made a practice of secretly recording telephone conversations. New York state law allows for recordings of conversations with only the consent of one party; other jurisdictions require all parties to agree. It was not clear where Trump and Cohen were during the call. Cohen's recording adds to questions about whether Trump tried to quash damaging stories before the election. Trump's campaign had said it knew nothing about any payment to former centrefold Karen McDougal. It could also further entangle the president in a criminal investigation that for months has targeted Cohen. The erstwhile Trump loyalist has hired a new attorney, Clinton White House veteran Lanny Davis, and disassociated himself from the president as both remain under investigation. Cohen has not been charged with a crime. Current Trump attorney Rudy Giuliani said the payment was never made and the brief recording shows Trump did nothing wrong. "The transaction that Michael is talking about on the tape never took place, but what's important is: If it did take place, the president said it has to be done correctly and it has to be done by cheque" to keep a proper record of it, Giuliani said. Davis said "any attempt at spin cannot change what is on the tape. "When the recording is heard, it will not hurt Mr Cohen," Davis said in a statement. Lawyer Rudy Giuliani said no campaign funding was involved in the discussion between Trump and Cohen, who has distanced himself from Trump in recent months as the FBI investigates Cohen's business dealings. If campaign funds were used, that could run foul of federal election law, legal experts say. Before the election, the Trump campaign denied any knowledge of payment to the former model, Karen McDougal, but the taped conversation could undermine those denials. The existence of the audio recording was first reported by The New York Times, which said Trump and Cohen discussed a potential payment to McDougal. Giuliani confirmed the conversation took place in September 2016 but said it involved reimbursing the parent company of the National Enquirer tabloid for McDougal's story rights. The payment was never made, he said. Giuliani also denied Trump had an affair with McDougal. He said the tape would show that Trump makes clear that if there is going to be a payment, it should be done by cheque, which would be easily traced. The FBI seized the recording as part of an investigation which stemmed in part from a referral by the US special counsel's office, which is looking into possible coordination during the election campaign between Trump's aides and Russian officials. Moscow denies US allegations that it interfered in the election and Trump denies any campaign ties to Russian officials. A representative for McDougal has not responded to requests for comment. The White House had also declined comment. McDougal has said she began a nearly year-long affair with Trump in 2006 shortly after his wife, Melania, gave birth. She sold her story for $150,000 (€128,000) in August 2016 but it was never published by the National Enquirer, a practice known as "catch and kill" to prevent a potentially damaging story from becoming public. David Pecker, the chairman of parent company American Media Inc (AMI), is Trump's friend. Giuliani said the discussion of payment did not mean McDougal's claim of an affair was true and characterised it as an attempt to resolve false allegations that were "personally damaging" to Trump. Under US election law, presidential candidates must disclose campaign contributions, which are defined as things of value given to a campaign in order to influence an election. Giuliani said the proposed payment was a personal matter and not subject to campaign finance law. The New Yorker magazine reported in February that Trump had an affair with McDougal at the same time he had a relationship with porn star Stormy Daniels and that the National Enquirer prevented McDougal's story being made public. The White House has said Trump denies having sex with Daniels. Federal prosecutors in New York are investigating Cohen for possible bank and tax fraud, and for possible campaign law violations linked to a $130,000 (€111,000) payment to Daniels and other matters related to Trump's campaign, a person familiar with the investigation has told Reuters. Cohen has not been charged with any crime. In past comments Trump has also referred to the court-ordered seizure as a "break-in," though Cohen has been more sanguine, saying the FBI agents were courteous and respectful. A self-described fixer for Trump for more than a decade, Cohen said last year he would "take a bullet" for Trump. But he told ABC News in an interview broadcast this month that he now puts "family and country first" and won't let anyone paint him as "a villain of this story". On Twitter, he scrubbed mentions and photos of Trump from a profile that previously identified him as "Personal attorney to President Donald J. Trump." © Reuters Reuters 
