trump
{ Carole Coleman 
    November 12 2016 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/trump-has-raised-unrealistic-hopes-he-should-be-nervous-35209437.html }
Was it just me, or did Donald Trump look nervous on his first visit to the Oval Office? Seated next to Barack Obama, Mr Trump nodded and spoke in a low voice.  He talked about "difficulties" and "high-flying assets" - whatever that means. And when it appeared he might answer a reporter's question, Mr Obama restrained Mr Trump and reminded the new president-elect that it was "house rules" not to take questions at photo opportunities.  Thursday's meeting was a surreal ending to a raucous, bitter campaign and a counterpoint to the prime time madness Mr Trump presided over for the last 16 months. Having driven a wedge the size of the Grand Canyon through the American populace, Mr Trump talked about unity and called Mr Obama "a very good man".  President-elect Trump has every reason to be nervous. This is not a beauty pageant he's won. Mr Trump now shoulders awesome responsibility, and he won't be able to blame Mr Obama or corrupt Democrats if things go wrong. With both a Republican House and Senate at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue, it will be all up to "Team Trump".  Today we know it was not an election but a revolution. It's clear that America rejected not just Hillary Clinton but the entire liberal elite world view she came to represent. Voters dismissed political insiders, the media, pollsters, Barack and Michelle Obama, Bruce Springsteen, Beyoncé, Katy Perry, and everyone else who campaigned for the old order.  In the end, they were felled by a mass movement fashioned from a blend of nationalism and reality TV star power. It was, as Michael Moore correctly predicted, the last stand of the angry white men and, as is now also evident, angry women too. It was a revolution against the America developing since the 1950s, where elites prosper at everyone else's expense.   As with all revolutions, there were many tears. From Times Square to San Francisco, we saw the anguished faces of those whose value system had been overthrown. It was a sorry scene, one of shock and disbelief. Peak fear had arrived. My American contacts tell me that many, though certainly not all, are trying to stay calm and reasoned. But there is an awkwardness now, even among friends. Many don't want to talk about how they voted, and others are walking on eggshells trying to avoid a fight over politics.  Unity is a long way off. Just look at America's new electoral map. The huge swathe of Trump red in the country's heartlands has surrounded the Great Lakes and expanded eastward into Pennsylvania, while Democratic blue states have been squeezed along the coastlines. It's as if economically depressed red America is pushing the more prosperous blue America into the sea. Two distinct world views inhabit one continent. But America can't erect a neat fence between them to keep the peace. Red states have blue voters too, and countless Trump supporters live beside neighbours bitterly alienated by Mr Trump's rhetoric.   At its ugliest, Mr Trump's campaign facilitated a more public expression of racism. He brought racism into the open and made it commonplace to blame specific groups for America's ills. Putting such divisiveness back into the box will be a real challenge. Chants of "Build a wall!" and "Lock her up!" had violent undertones. Even school children are now repeating these slogans.  Heck, if the new president allows it, must it not be OK?  What's more, Mr Trump's own taped references to assaulting women cost him little - an outcome that regrettably may give succour to sexual predators everywhere. Some say it's a good thing that everything's now in the open. Racism and sexism are being publicly debated. Which brings us to what a Trump presidency might achieve…   With a Republican Congress lined up behind him, Mr Trump has a decent shot at achieving at least some of his agenda.  Mr Obama's 2010 Affordable Care Act is unlikely to survive, and the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) agreement is dead.  Christian evangelicals who voted overwhelmingly for Mr Trump will get a conservative Supreme Court nominee. Beyond that, it's difficult to predict.  For years a big Democratic donor, Mr Trump has no real allegiance to the Republican Party and does not subscribe to its core ideology.  President-elect Trump is where he is because of instinct and talent. In the hours after his election, an older female white voter remarked that she expected Mr Trump would deliver on 80pc of his promises. With expectations that high, any leader would fail. The billionaire tycoon, turned working-class hero will be under tremendous pressure to deliver. Mr Trump will be challenged to fit into a Washington that resists change.  The capital city was originally built on an actual swamp, and presidents have been trying to drain the political swamp ever since.   Whether he likes it or not, Mr. Trump will inevitably become part of the hated establishment.  He will assemble a team to share the load but, as George W Bush once put it, the president is "the decider".  President-elect Trump will decide what level of collateral damage is acceptable when taking out a terrorist. He will have his finger on the nuclear codes.   Those around Trump, from the White House butler to the chief of staff, will have to learn to work with him too. It's Trump's America now and, if he wants to paint his bedroom red, so be it.  One psychologist advised those around Mr Trump to flatter his ego, while trying to constrain him. Like Vladimir Putin, Mr Trump is a strongman who fears humiliation.  Such a trail could lead Mr Trump down the same path as Mr Putin.  Observe what the Russian president has done to distract from his own failings at home.  To appear strong at home as the Russian economy continues to sink, Mr Putin has moved into Syria and become a power broker in the Middle East.  If Mr Trump cannot re-create the America his voters yearn for,  he too might stoke nationalist feelings through actions on the world stage. In recent weeks, Mr Trump roared "I came on my own!" to crowds at his closing rallies.  The Republican nominee was referring to the star power that his Democratic opponent was dragging around the States - James Taylor, Stevie Wonder and basketball star LeBron James.   Mrs Clinton had all the big guns at her side, but Mr Trump stood alone on the cusp of history.  He's not on his own now. Voters have joined him in an attempt to change the course of American history. It was a revolution, and it was televised. Politics is no longer left versus right, but up versus down - the people versus the establishment. The Clinton dynasty is dead in the water.   Trump is now America, and America is Trump. Get used to it. Irish Independent 
