business
{ Shane Hickey 
    January 11 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/staff-of-life-26279670.html }
AFTER what will inevitably be a hard slog to make a start-up a success, the demands of a small firm will turn to expansion. As a company gains more business and strain is put on the existing staff, moves to expand personnel levels should be considered by the owner of the firm. The principal times to expand are when the company finds itself in a situation where new skills are needed and when the work-load has become too much for the existing staff, said Dr Thomas Conney, lecturer in entrepreneurship at Dublin Institute of Technology (DIT). "I believe that there are two critical occasions when there is a need to expand staff levels. The first is when the company requires a set of skills or expertise that currently is not available within the business," said Dr Conney. "The second is when the current performance of the business is being negatively affected by unreasonable work expectations being placed on existing staff. "Owner-managers forget that staff do not own the business, usually have no bonus schemes, and therefore do not have the same incentives to work 14 hours a day as the owner-manager." Assistant chief executive of the Dublin City Enterprise Board Eibhlin Curley said it is important to recognise when it is necessary to bring in experts. "Leadership and delegation are essential to the successful growth of the business. A successful entrepreneur might not be the best person to manage the growth of the business," she said. "Businesses might reach a point where the owner/manager has to decide to hire a manager to look after the day-to-day running of the business, possibly sell the growing business and develop a new one or concentrate on their best strength. "For example, with technological entrepreneurs they may continue as chief technical officers, developing new products and hire a general manager and functional managers to look after finance, people and sales and marketing. "Other product-oriented entrepreneurs such as crafts people enjoy the production process more than managing staff and keep production small so they don't have to deal with staffing issues - this limits the growth potential of the business." Dr Conney said that one of the biggest barriers to growth is the owner/manager themselves. "They fail to recognise that they are required to change from an entrepreneurial style of management to a professional management approach," he said. "A good junior footballer does not necessarily make a good senior footballer. Additionally, there has never been an entrepreneur that is an expert in all of the following functions: marketing, finance, management, operations, law, IT, and HR. "Therefore, I have two pieces of advice for owner-managers wishing to grow their business - to take a course or employ a mentor/coach for the development of your own managerial abilities and to recognise your weaknesses and buy in the expertise that you require. "The passion that feeds an entrepreneur when starting an enterprise can frequently be the same passion that causes the firm to fail. An entrepreneur will champion their idea and against significant challenges, they will bring the business into existence. "As the company expands beyond first stage growth, there is a need to move from entrepreneurial management to a professional management style, and many founders are unwilling or unable to make that transition." One of the main challenges, said Ms Curley, was in getting the right staff for the job. "The difficulty for small businesses is to attract high-quality staff. The salary expectations can be hard to match with other larger organisations, so the entrepreneur may consider offering the right candidate a share of the business equity," she said. "It is nearly impossible to find staff who are as committed to the business as the owner-manager and willing to work the long hours. "Retaining and motivating staff involves offering recognition, respect and reward. Smaller businesses can offer staff more varied work and higher responsibility." Ensuring that proper preparation is put in place is vital before expansion of the business takes place, according to Dr Conney. "The common pitfalls, therefore, are that owner-managers have no clear objectives for the growth of their company nor have written a business plan that details how they are going to achieve these objectives. As Roy Keane said in Saipan, 'failing to plan is planning to fail'," he said. Prior to starting interviewing candidates for a position, John Flood of Focused Business Advisors said appropriate preparation should be done to ensure that the right candidate is selected. "Encourage candidates to assess themselves against the requirements of the job," said Mr Flood. "To obtain as much information as possible regarding the candidate in relation to the role, encourage responses with open-ended questions such as 'How do you think you would perform in this job?' or 'What contributions do you feel you would make to this firm?'. "Encouraging an open-ended assessment like this will also provide you with feedback. "You should ask candidates to offer at least three referees, but more will be even better. "You naturally want confirmation of the candidate's background and competencies, but you also want to gather examples of the candidate's strengths and weaknesses, their management style, and how they relate to others in the workspace."  Advice for hiring * BUSINESS owners should look at taking on new staff when they need new skills which they do not have or when the workload has become too much for the existing staff. * Know when to step aside as the head of the business and take on a more expert role, leaving the day-to-day running of the firm to someone else. * If hiring a new member of staff, consider giving them some equity in the firm to ensure a higher level of loyalty. * Be prepared to change from an owner/manager and entrepreneurial role to a professional management role as the business grows. * Draw up plans as to how the business will expand.  Case Study: Try to get the strongest team HAVING set up their marketing consultancy 'Alternatives' in February 2000, Aldagh McDonogh and Sandra Lawler have seen the firm grow in size considerably. Alternatives has grown from the two founders to a team of 15 people, as well as a panel of 450 marketers who form the 'Panel' at the centre of the business. The company provides marketing solutions to clients using the 'Panel' of experts, largely for medium to large-scale businesses. Since the company has grown in size, the two founders say sufficient financing for the right standard of employees is vital. "The most important need as you set yourself up for continued future growth is to build, and have the capacity to pay for, the strongest team possible," said Ms McDonogh. "In a service business, it's all about people, and you need the very best people, who bring different skills sets to your own, but who share your passion for the business and who share your values. We have also often pounced on the opportunity to take on a great person, if we come across someone exceptional, but don't have an immediate 'official' vacancy. "It is an initial risk financially, but it has always worked out. "Decisions need to be made as to what is right for the business longer term - not just what will bring in immediate revenue at any cost." 
