business
{  
    April 26 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/new-business-courses-are-on-the-way-at-dkit-27119466.html }
THE School of Business and Humanities at Dundalk Institute of Technology has been busily working on a number of course submissions over the last two years. This work has been rewarded with the news that the Department of Education and Science have approved three new ab initio bus THE School of Business and Humanities at Dundalk Institute of Technology has been busily working on a number of course submissions over the last two years. This work has been rewarded with the news that the Department of Education and Science have approved three new ab initio business degree programmes. The courses, the Bachelor of Business Studies in Marketing and e-Business (DK106), Bachelor of Business Studies in Marketing and French (DK206) and the Bachelor of Business Studies in Marketing and german (DK306) will run from September 2001. ‘These four-year programmes aim to produce graduates who combine a thorough understanding of business with a high level competence in marketing and e-business or language’, says cathal kearney, Head of Department in Business Studies. ‘It is clear that e-business is becoming a prerequisite for staying in business in many industries. There is evidence that businessand marketing graduates, particularly those whose courses include some computing element, are being snapped up by e-businesses. There is a need for graduates who are e-business capable, who can combine technological awareness with business savvy.’ In all four years students study a range of subjects in the broad business and marketing areas as well as the specialist subjects in e-business, French or German. The businesz and marketing subjects include marketing, market research, international marketing, promotion, sales and customer management, services marketing, management, law, economics, financial and management accounting, computer applications and management information systems. Students taking the e-business degree will study a range of e-commerce subjects including internet authoring, database management systems and e-business. Students taking the marketing and french, and marketing or German degree must have attained an ordinary B3 or honours D3 standard in French or German. A special feature of the course is a compulsory study year abroad. In the third year, students will study in one of Dundalk Institute of Technology’s partner colleges. Currently DKIT have partners in France, Germany and Finland. John Sisk, Course Planning Team says, ‘as well as supporting their academic and personal development this will assist them in developing an internatioinal perspective on business. Students experience a different culture, from both the business and personal perspective, and will also develop their language skills. The experience of DKIT is that the year spent abroad expands the mindset of individuals. They become mature and are better equipped to cope effectively with the dynamic business world into which they will venture.’ These programmes are designed to produce gradfuates who are well equipped to pursue careers in the field of business where their unique combination of business and language or technology skills render them of particular interest to employers. Keafney’s view is that the range of jobs available to BBS marketing graduates is extnsive. ‘Opportunities exist in the manufacturing, services, large corporation and SME sectors. Graduates from these programmes will have developed the necessary competencies and personal qualities to enable them to take advantage of a variety of business employment opportunities. I expect graduates to work in areas such as customer service, marketing research, advertising and public relations, sales management, international marketing, web site development, multimedia development, e-business management, brand management or marketing management.’ According to DKIT feedback suggests that the courses will appeal to a significant segment of Leaving Certificate students who in the past would not have considered enrolling on a course at DKIT. For further information contact Cathal Kearney at (042) 9370291 or by e-Mail cathal.kearney@dkit.ie 
