business
{  
    March 14 2015 06:01 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/small-business/how-to-turnaround-a-failing-business-by-restructuring-31066857.html }
Many business owners eagerly await positive economic news following a deep recession - unaware that struggling businesses are at their most vulnerable in the two years after recovery takes hold in an economy. Experience from previous recessions shows us that it is those businesses that find themselves unable to gear up again for the recovery in terms of new orders, new staff, essential supplies and working capital that fall over in the two years following a macro-economic turnaround.  If everyone is limping, then a struggling business can stay in the race. However, when the competition starts to sprint again, only those businesses that have already restructured will stay on their feet. There are stages along the road to a company failure. The immediate difficulty faced by many business owners is recognising what stage they are at and dealing with it.  The pressure-cooker environment of a besieged business is seldom conducive to rational thinking or cool heads.   First up is Stage 1 - the process of "trading through it", which practically every business in Ireland has first-hand experience of now.  This involves cutting costs, collecting cash owed where possible, recasting the business plan, focussing on customer retention and essentially battening down the hatches to ride out the storm.   If this does not work then a business is often in the territory of Stage 2. Here a company will see informal or voluntary arrangements with the business creditors; phased payment plans with Revenue, post-dated cheques with the sheriff, renegotiated banking facilities including perhaps an interest-only period, fending off the wolves at the door and the juggling of an ever-growing creditors' ledger.  Redundancies are common here and the number of businesses that found themselves at Stage 2 in the period 2009-2011 was one of the main reasons for both the collapse in tax revenues and the rise in unemployment in those years, from full employment to over 15pc nationally. Thankfully, that metric has now fallen by over 5pc to a national average of 10pc. A business that can no longer keep the plates spinning often makes the move to Stage 3 - and examinership. Ireland's formal corporate recovery process is designed to save viable enterprises in the community from closure - thereby saving the jobs and livelihoods of those employees who depend on the business.  Associated for many years with larger companies, since its move last year to the Circuit Court the process has been responsible for safeguarding over 1,250 jobs in SME businesses in Ireland during 2014 alone.  There are four ways that a business can fund a rescue or turnaround plan in a SME examinership.  Firstly, new equity investment can be sourced, sometimes from the owners.  Secondly, non-core assets can be disposed of as part of a consolidation exercise with a leaner company emerging from the process.  Thirdly, new borrowings can be brought to bear from independent capital providers or the mainstream banks, who in the past two years have begun funding restructuring schemes once again. Finally, certain businesses in recent years have funded rescue schemes of arrangement using a trading surplus that can arise during the 100-day protection period, in particular businesses that are seasonal in nature. Although probably the weakest of the four funding methods, using a firm's own cash flow has been used successfully on several occasions recently - most notably by a chain of greeting card stores, that used its strong Valentine's Day and Mother's Day trade to agree a scheme with its creditors.   The examiner appointed does not displace the company directors. Rather the examiner shepherds the business through a turnaround plan and agrees a formal scheme with all of those that are owed money.  Renegotiating the business rent is a common task for the examiner. In fact, examinership is the only method in Irish law allowing for a company to continue as a going concern and exit an onerous upwards-only lease.   It is for this reason that the larger retailers of Ireland can now be neatly divided between those who have been through the process and have largely returned to profitability, and those that have not and either continue to struggle or gear up to shortly enter the process themselves. Shareholder value ends in Stage 3 - because Stage 4 is receivership. This is where the company's secured lender takes over the running of the company and its assets in order to pay back the debt they are owed.   It is possible for an underlying business to survive a receivership process. Many pubs and hotels have done just that during the recession - but the receiver is a creature of the bank, and has no responsibility other than to maximise the return to the bank.  Every receivership is followed by a liquidation - which is Stage 5 and spells the end for a corporate entity.  A liquidator's job is to turn the company into a cash balance in a bank account and distribute those funds to the creditors that are owed money in the order set out by law. The personal toll of moving from stage to stage can be immense. In many cases a life's work can lie in ruins.  A business owner or director who finds themselves in this situation should surround themselves with people whom they trust, and try to "control the controllables". They should focus on positive actions they can take to save the underlying business.   All of the fortitude of a business person will be called upon in these circumstances.   To do it successfully you first need to face up to the reality of the situation that your business is in. Continuing to struggle may limit the options that would be open to you in a couple of month's time. Try to remove the emotion and be pragmatic.  Once you have accepted that you need help, you need to then find trusted advisors who will present all the options to you. Finally, you need to communicate fully all the way through - with worried employees, with your bank, with your creditors, and with the Revenue Commissioners.  If people know what stage you are at, what your goals are and what you need from them in order to achieve a successful outcome, then your chances of success will be enhanced.  I will never forget how one company director leaned over to me in the High Court as I was appointed examiner to his company. Close to tears, he quoted from Kipling's poem If and I wondered how anyone could "watch the things you gave your life to, broken, and stoop and build 'em up with worn-out tools".   It was particularly satisfying to shepherd that company successfully through the 100-day breathing space of examinership.  It is likely many more may need recourse to the process if, having survived the recession, they are to go on to survive the recovery. Neil Hughes is managing partner at Hughes Blake Sunday Indo Business 
