business
{ Fiona McBennett 
    February 28 2015 07:02 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/small-business/what-happens-when-couples-start-a-business-together-31030379.html }
While the thought of working with a husband or wife is enough to make some of us break out into a cold sweat, there are plenty of brave Irish couples who have taken the plunge - and formed a successful business partnership.  So is it true that couples who work together stay together and is the reality of going into business with a loved-one a bed of roses or nothing but heartache? "We killed each other at the start," laughs Lorraine Fanneran, owner of Limerick-based Italian restaurant and takeaway, La Cucina. She and her Italian husband Bruno Coppola opened the business in 2003 - and she admits that starting a new venture was tough. "It's very hard at the start. It's like any new business, you have to give everything to it and you are there morning, noon and night. Although you say you'll never bring your work home, it's impossible when you are both working on the same thing." The couple, who met in college, say that their working relationship has flourished over the years and that they have embraced their individual roles within the business. "We have very different personalities, Bruno is quiet and I can be bossy," says Lorraine. "We have 20 staff now - but in the beginning, the two of us were doing everything ourselves and worked 12-hour days, seven days a week. "Now, he looks after the kitchen and I do front of house. I also spend a lot of time on social media, it's an integral part of our business but Bruno has no interest in that at all. We rarely fight these days, as we are both on the same page about everything. It's very easy now. It's great." The business has expanded in recent years to include an online store, a YouTube channel and a range of 'Real Italian Foodie' pasta sauces. The husband and wife team are also looking to open a second premises - however success does not come without hard work, and Lorraine says that taking time away from the restaurant is a priority. "We have always felt that it is important to take ourselves away from the business and to go away and do our own thing, like trips away separately with our friends, as we are together all the time. We also go away together every few weeks to see what is on trend around Ireland. The business comes into every aspect of our lives." With so much of their time invested in the running of the business, Lorraine feels that it would be impossible to be in a partnership with anyone else but her husband. "It would be very hard if Bruno was in a nine-to-five job, as you are never away from the business - it's constant. I am on social media every night and it would be very difficult for someone who wasn't involved to understand how it all operates. We are both in it together and we both know how much work is involved." Husband and wife Keith and Claire Malone launched their online wedding advice website - Mrs2Be.ie - in 2009, shortly after the birth of their first child. Keith had set up his wedding videography company four years previous but the website was the couple's first professional collaboration. "Ever since my school days, I had wanted to be my own boss and run my own business," says Keith. "My fondness of gadgets and cameras resulted in me establishing the videography business and ten years on, I still enjoy it. "Claire and I met in college and had briefly mentioned that it would be nice to work together but at that stage, we had no idea if it would ever happen. The concept for the website came about after we spotted a gap in the Irish wedding market, so we set out to create a friendly and welcoming online community of engaged couples and to provide them with regular doses of wedding inspiration." A new baby and a new business were not the only challenges the pair faced, as the website was launched at the start of the recession. However, the company has thrived over the years and while the pair feel that their good working relationship has contributed to its success, they admit that running a business together can be tricky at times. "We both work at different paces and approach things from different angles," says Claire. "We did a business management course a few years ago and learnt how different personality traits influence decision-making. "That helped us to work together more efficiently. It's just very difficult to switch off. If, say, we have an unresolved issue in work, it's hard to put it aside at home and pick it up the next day during work hours. I find that family life can affect us more than two business partners who aren't a couple - as even a thing as simple as the kids being sick affects both of us." With plans for international expansion in the pipeline, both are looking forward to developing the company and say that working together has strengthened their relationship. "We each have our particular roles and duties within the business and that works well for us," says Keith. "It's very rewarding to have built up a successful business together that employs a full-time team. I believe that working together has made our relationship stronger." Newly-weds Stephen Deasy and Ruth Hussey took on a double challenge in 2013, when they got engaged and opened their Dublin-based coffee shop, Bear Market Coffee. "I think that having the business actually made planning the wedding easier," says Stephen. "Obviously the wedding was very important to us but it was never prioritised over the shop - if the business wasn't going in the right direction then we weren't having a wedding." The couple met in their final year of college, while studying architecture. However, when the recession meant that jobs became scarce and Ruth and Stephen's plans for developing an upmarket hostel in Edinburgh collapsed, they looked towards pursuing their passion for artisan coffee and gluten-free baking. The coffee shop has been doing a roaring trade ever since and Stephen says that while working for themselves can be demanding, he and Ruth make a good professional team. "It can be stressful but I would find it much harder if I was doing it with someone else. We are lucky that our personalities don't grate on each other, so even when things are stressful, we don't take it out on each other. We'll realise that it is the stress of the business and try to push on in the right direction with it. "I do the accounts side of things - which Ruth hates. She is good at getting things done, whereas I tend to get sidetracked." Relying solely on the support of a partner through the highs and lows of owning a business means that time away from work can be hard to find. "There are obviously down sides, as you don't ever switch off - and when things are tough there is no escape from it," says Stephen. "You don't have anyone to go home and vent to because the other person is already in the same position and looking for someone to vent to as well." Stephen's advice for loved-up couples hoping to make their romantic partnership a professional one is to have realistic expectations of what it will be like. "Go into it with your eyes open, as challenges in business these days are huge. Once you go into business on your own, you really are on your own and it's just the two of you. You have got to be able to hold the other person up. "It's not like when you are working in a company and have that bigger circle of support. I know loads of couples for whom it wouldn't work - we're lucky it works for us." Sunday Indo Business 
