business
{ Jane Williams 
    May 31 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/small-is-beautiful-26377149.html }
The Small Business Forum report, 'Small Business is Big Business', is welcome and timely. It puts a spotlight on a vital, large, and often neglected, part of Ireland's economic and social life SMALL businesses employ more people in Ireland than any other sector, are regionally dispersed throughout the country and play key roles in the country's competitiveness. The Small Business Forum's report rightly highlights the value and importance of the indigenous sector - predominantly small businesses and entrepreneurial ventures. At policy level, we value foreign direct investment and should continue to do so. However, we have not understood the importance of developing our small business sector or how to do this. Many successful entrepreneurial businesses have started and thrived from Ireland - for example, Ryanair, O'Brien's sandwiches, Fitzers Catering, Riverdance/Tyrone Productions - without a policy framework to support them. Policy has focused on manufacturing and internationally-traded services because the economic models recognise the wealth they create. This focus should continue. However, much of our recent growth has been driven by other factors such as the construction boom, population growth and national confidence and determination. We need a better understanding of these dynamics. The forum report quantifies the economic impact of small business and describes the importance of this sector to regional and social development. It is time for small business and entrepreneurial ventures in all sectors to be valued, as our future success - economic and social - will be dependent on them. The forum report identifies core issues in the lack of data and understanding of the non-traded, small business sector and the absence of a coherent policy on entrepreneurship. We do not understand the shape, drivers, direction or levers for success of our indigenous enterprise base. An example of this lack of understanding is the criticism levelled at small business managers for not investing in their own management development. The empirical basis for this criticism is one study that draws on the views of multinational managers of the skills set of small business managers. The gene pool contains an entrepreneurial element The skills needed to run a small business are very different from those that determine success in a large multinational. This is a bit like criticising Peter Stringer for not having the skills of Paul O'Connell. But where would Munster have been without both on the big day? Small businesses have great difficulty releasing key people for daytime, classroom-type development programmes. More innovative and learner-friendly models are needed. The forum's report throws some much-needed light on the lack of understanding and insight. More work remains to be done to underpin a robust policy framework. Small business is increasingly open to competition from outside the country. As individual pharmacists, hairdressers, restaurateurs, retailers and others see the arrival of international chains or internet purchasing by Irish consumers, the reality of global competition hits. Small business must innovate and change to remain competitive. Irish people are creative and up for a challenge, but the playing pitch must be level. The burden of regulation, rising local authority charges, inadequate infrastructure and other issues are rightly identified by the forum as affecting small business disproportionately. Because of its size and local nature, much of small business has been assumed to be immune. It is not. Entrepreneurship is a vital ingredient in the social and economic fabric. When working in the US in the 1980s I was struck by the number of Irish surnames involved in successful entrepreneurial businesses. The gene pool contains an entrepreneurial element. The recent growth of wealth in Ireland and a positive economic environment allowed that capacity to flourish. However, it is still fragile and uneven. The 2006 GEM (Global Entrepreneurship Monitor) study shows that the numbers planning a new venture are lower than in other highly entrepreneurial countries. Irish women have a lower rate of entrepreneurship than in other entrepreneurial countries. The growth rate of our start-ups is also lower. Why do we not grow these businesses? Is our economic confidence fragile? What barriers inhibit women in starting a business? Does the need to export early hold us back from growing our start-ups? We need a deeper understanding of the underpinnings so we can foster our vital entrepreneurial base. The forum's recommendations are clear, practical and challenging to implement. A number demonstrate lateral thinking, such as innovation vouchers, only two dates each year for new regulation introduction. Some could be implemented without too much effort, like the annual small business indicators to monitor trends and business issues. Others will be difficult to implement and take political will, including rebalancing the contributions of business, central government and domestic sources of local authority revenue. The nine sets of recommendations address key issues for the development of small business in Ireland. A welcome innovation is the report's focus on implementation and facilitators for that. The Small Business Forum report provides an important shot in the arm to the development of a sustainable economy and society of high value and well-being. I hope it will be a catalyst for debate, action and positive results. Jane Williams is managing director of the Sia Group, board member of Forfás and former Chair of the Small Business and Services Forum. The views expressed are her own. 
