business
{ Shane Hickey 
    October 11 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/blazing-a-trail-26359562.html }
If you can't stand the heat - study, and your firm will enjoy salad days BETWEEN 50pc and 60pc of new start-ups close in year one. Co-partner in the Blazing Salads food chain Pamela FitzMaurice believes this is due to a lack of ongoing education. Since setting up Blazing Salads with her family 15 years ago, Ms FitzMaurice has taken up a number of courses in various subjects for the ongoing running of the expanding firm. The vegetarian food company now employs 14 people as well as the four family co-directors, has a delicatessen and bakery and launched a cookery book a few years ago. "Doing these courses gave me the confidence to look at the finances of the business and not put all the outlay on to the accountants," she said. "So you are keeping the day-to-day running of the business, so they were extremely beneficial." In addition to reading inspirational business books, Ms FitzMaurice says courses and ongoing education for start-up firms are vital. "They say 'work on your business, not in your business' - and I would say after doing the courses that would definitely be the case," she said. "Between 50pc and 60pc of businesses close within the first 12 months and I would say it is definitely due to training. "That is why they eventually close down, they just can't keep on top of things. "Even if you know about a subject, you still always take something out of doing a course." In an oft-cited dictum, it is said that entrepreneurs are born and not made. However, it would be foolish for any young start-ups to ignore the broad range of assistance that is available to them when they are setting up for the first time, which can often be an intimidating prospect. County and city enterprise boards around the country offer a broad range of 'soft supports' that are geared at the identified needs of managers of small businesses. A number of training courses are available for businesses employing fewer than ten people. "Enterprise Boards are a resource that small companies can return to again and again. "In business you never stop learning and it's good to have somewhere to go for that invaluable piece of advice," said Ms FitzMaurice. For businesses with financial limitations, there are often subsidies in place to ensure that managers and staff are able to access training. Those who want a more formal level of training in universities can look to the Dublin Institute of Technology, which offers a two-year course in retail enterprise management. For non-business college graduates who plan to start their own firm, the UCD Michael Smurfit School of Business offers a nine-month diploma in entrepreneurship studies. "Taking a systematic approach in researching a business idea and compiling a business plan reduces the risk of business failure," said Eibhlin Curley, assistant chief executive of the Dublin City Enterprise Board. "Identifying the start-up costs, researching the market demand and competition, selling skills, writing a business plan and setting up the correct structures for a business are the topics covered in 'Start Your Own Business' courses. "In the early stages entrepreneurs need to have an understanding of all aspects of the business. "It is not sufficient to delegate all financial aspects to a bookkeeper or accountant. "The owner or manager needs to be able to understand their financial position on a weekly and monthly basis, to keep an eye on cash flow and identify the profitable areas of the business. "Knowing when to hire or contract specialist skills and build a balanced management team can increase the chances of business success. "Especially in small businesses, the skills of the owner-manager are critical to the success of the business." As cash flow is of primary concern to most new firms, budding entrepreneurs should use all supports which are on offer. From tonight, Dublin City Public Libraries will host the 'Get Started' free business lecture series which are held twice annually. The lectures are provided over six evenings and focus on a range of relevant business topics.  Cut from the right cloth . . . AFTER living in the US for 10 years and building a successful career in fashion, Jennifer Rothwell decided it was time to return to Ireland. Having long harboured a goal of setting up by herself, her first step when she came home was to find out what help was available for her fledgling fashion design business. After contacting the local enterprise board, she secured a number of grants and starting doing courses for the new firm. Taking part in training in courses such as website design and book-keeping which helped her start up meant Ms Rothwell got out from what can be a lonely position. "The training courses I found very useful, they go through each step of what you are going to have to do," she said. "It can be very very obvious but unless you reiterate it, you don't take it in. "It is very inspiring and inspirational and a lot of the tutors who operate off it are very, very positive people. "They bring in people to talk and it really gets you involved in what you are going to do. "It is pushing you forward and giving the knowledge that you need because it can be very overwhelming starting your own business." Having returned from stateside in May of last year, she is now hoping to hire somebody within 12 months for the fledgling fashion firm. 
