business
{ Independent.ie Business Desk 
    July 14 2017 04:39 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/small-business/facebook-to-join-irelands-major-sme-event-your-business-live-as-co-sponsor-35932200.html }
Facebook will join Ireland’s major SME event YOUR BUSINESS LIVE as co-sponsor, it has been announced. The area of sustained growth for SMEs is central to the event, which will feature a Grow Your Business stage supported by Facebook.  "We’re delighted to be working with Independent News & Media on this event for small and medium businesses,"  Ciaran Quilty, VP SMB EMEA, Facebook said. "SMEs are the engine of economic growth and important providers of employment in Ireland as demonstrated in recent results from the Future of Business survey by Facebook, OECD and the World Bank which revealed that 17pc of Irish SMEs created jobs in the past six months and 24pc want to create jobs in the next six months." Attracting customers is the biggest challenge facing SMEs today, according to Mr Quilty, and Facebook is looking to help businesses in Ireland use digital and in particular mobile to reach more customers and grow their business.  "There are now over 43 million people around the world connected to a business in Ireland on Facebook," he said. "We want to help Irish SMEs connect with that ever-growing global audience and with customers here at home. We look forward to sharing insights, trends and best practices with SMEs at the Grow Your Business stage at Your Business Live.” A showcase of exhibiting companies and organisations with an extensive programme of seminars and workshops on Growth, Finance, Technology and HR and Talent will be available at YOUR BUSINESS LIVE. The SME event - which takes place on October 17 and 18 in the RDS Simmonscourt, Dublin - welcomes executives, decision-makers, entrepreneurs, owners and managers from around the country to network, learn and do business.  Dearbhail McDonald, Group Business Editor, INM, said securing Facebook as joint title sponsor was a major boost for YOUR BUSINESS LIVE – and the SME sector. "Small businesses ignore the online world at their peril," said Ms McDonald.  "Facebook, with its dynamic SMB studio at the heart of its Irish operations, is using its platform, insights and reach to help entrepreneurs and small businesses in Ireland aim for global growth and reach their full potential. "The SME sector is core to INM’s business of reporting on and supporting small business across all our print and digital platforms and we are thrilled to team up with Facebook for YOUR BUSINESS LIVE." YOUR BUSINESS LIVE 2017 is supported by Ibec for Irish Business, Small Firms Association (SFA) and Enterprise Ireland, reinforcing the aim of this event to create a new marketplace for the broad range of Irish SME’s - which account for 99.8pc of all active businesses in Ireland. Facebook, together with Vodafone Ireland, are joint title sponsors for YOUR BUSINESS LIVE.  YOUR BUSINESS LIVE 2017 is an Independent News and Media event, please visit www.yourbusinesslive.ie for further information.  Online Editors 
