business
{  
    March 13 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/enterprise-boards-role-in-446-jobs-creation-27463933.html }
Grants approved in the four years numbered 179 (37 last year), amounting to £294,655 last year and £1 million over the full period so... Grants approved in the four years numbered 179 (37 last year), amounting to £294,655 last year and £1 million over the full period so far. Its chairman, Ger Lewis on Thursday, at a press conference to review the past year, described it as a successful one in which the range of services designed to promote employment creation and enterprise awareness, had been expanded.  ‘SOFT’ SUPPORTS He said that during the year increasing emphasis was given to their range of non-financial supports for small businesses or what is called ‘soft’ supports. These included mentoring, management development training, advice and counselling. He believed that the future growth of small businesses in North Tipperary depends, fundamentally, on existing firms and new entrepreneurs fully availing of these services – and not on grant aid. Of course, for certain projects, promoters will rightly regard financial assistance as desirable and indeed necessary but, unless they give equal emphasis to the acquisition and practice of appropriate management skills and systems, much of this money can be wasted and businesses can fail. “One of the unique features of the County Enterprise Board is its capacity to offer ‘soft’ supports to non grant-aidable businesses. As Ireland’s economy expands, there will be more and more opportunities for people to provide ancillary products or services to complement the traditional manufacturing sector. Many of these activities will not be eligible for grant aid but I contend that the promoters’ willingness to avail of advice, support and information may well be the key to their success”, said Mr. Lewis. In the extensive consultation process undertaken by the Board in 1996 with a view to preparing an Action Plan for the period 1997-99 (launched in mid-1997), a clear message emerged from owner/managers that training and other such programmes were even more important than grant aid.  MAJOR RESPONSIBILITY The business people of North Tipperary, however, he said, had a major responsibility when it comes to advisory services for small enterprise and to the wider issue of how to grow small businesses in general. The board, and indeed other relevant development agencies, can put forward different schemes and programmes but unless there is a positive response from both existing businesss and new entrepreneurs, these initiatives will not achieve the desired results. He would encourage individuals, business and community groups to familiarise themselves with the support services that are available and to come forward in greater numbers to avail of this assistance, much of which is available free or at a minimal cost. The board saw its role in promoting a wider awareness of enterprise throughout the county as being crucial. This is why it placed so much emphasis on engaging in wide consultation with business people, groups, agencies and organisations in preparing its Enterprise Action Plan.  YOUNG ENTREPRENEURS Another example was the encouragement of enterprise in schools through the Young Entrepreneurs Scheme in second level schools and the pilot programme in primary schools. The latter programme was now being finalised and is expected to be implemented in 22 board areas in the coming school year. The board was also an active participant in the County Strategy Group and he welcomed this forum which brings together, in a cohesive manner, key agencies and interests working for economic development in the county. The County Enterprise Board receives funding from the Minister for Enterprise, Trade and Employment and the EU under the Operational Programme for Local, Urban and Rural Development and the chairman wished to publicly acknowledge their support. The Board’s Chief Executive Officer, Peggy Roche gave a detailed report on the many and varied aspects of the Board’s workings, highlighting in particular such elements as Women in Enterprise programme, schools programmes including the Young Entrepreneurs scheme, business information and the various advice/counselling and mentoring support schemes, the County Enterprise awards. Some of the courses undertaken during the past year included:  Enterprise Experience: The Board funded three clients to participate in the "Enterprise Experience '98" exhibition which was jointly organised by Fingal County and Dublin City Enterprise Boards. The Gifted Hand, Nenagh, Crossogue Preserves, Thurles and Candlelight Design, Roscrea were the exhibiting clients. Euro Information Night: In association with AIB, the Board organised an information night in April regarding the Euro and its implications for small business. Forty three people attended this session.  Advisors to Business Promoters-Information Night: All accountants, solicitors and personnel from all financial institutions (advisors to business promoters) were invited to an Information Night which took place in May. Presentations were given by the officials of the Board on the services available to small businesses and Michael Byrnes of Michael Byrnes & Associates gave a presentation on the Quickbooks accounting package. Thirty people attended.  Marketing Shills Programme & Review: This course commenced in May and ran over a period of six weeks (one evening per week). Nineteen business owners/managers participated and the programme was very well received by all. Topics covered included:  Business & Marketing Planning,  Organising for Marketing  Presenting Yourself in a Positive Marketing Perspective,  How to Become Excellent at Selling,  Service Quality,  Advertising Promotion. A follow.up review evening was organised in September for this group the objective being to re-cap on information. imparted to the group and to advise on the way forward.  Business Network Forum: A series of meetings were held throughout the year with the aim of establishing a Business Network Forum for North Tipperary facilitated by the Board. The idea has been favourably received and those interested in developing it further will continue to progress the idea in 1999. The purpose of this Business Network is to enable owners\managers to share information and experience, in addition to identifying business opportunities.  Internet Link: As part of its commitment to accelerate the Information Age Society in North Tipperary the County Enterprise Board invited applications for a subsidy towards the cost of linking local businesses to the internet. This intiative was available to all businesses in North Tipperary. A grant of £100 was available towards the cost of linking their existing PC to the internet and obtaining an email address. A total of 15 businesses were subsidised during 1998. On-site internet training was also provided to these businesses.  Mentor Programme: The Mentor Programme (Enterprise Ireland) was specifically designed to provide businesses with temporary advisors to help identify and overcome obstacles to growth. The mentors role is to listen and advise, to help identify problems. and to suggest solutions. He or she contributes independent, informed observations to aid a business in its decision marketing process. In addition to the six mentors who were already working with businesses at 1 January 1998, a further fourteen business owners/managers availed of this service during the year.  Professional Advice: Fifteen businesses benefited from professional advice over a range of subjects e.g. sales and marketing, business plans, finance and general business advice  Health & Safety Workshops: Two evening workshops addressing the topic of Health & Safety in the Workplace were held in September in Thurles. Twenty people attended and areas covered during these workshops included employer and employee responsibilities, hazard identification, accident prevention, safety statements and general health and safety guidelines.  Employment Legislation Workshops: In today's working environment it is imperative that employers make themselves aware of the issues that could impact on their businesses. With this in mind, the Board organised a two evening workshop which took place in October in Roscrea. Thirteen people attended in total and were given inputs on contracts of employment, relevant Acts, industrial relations law, adjudicating bodies and representations.  Start Your Own Business Programme: Twelve potential entrepreneurs participated in this programme which ran over a six week period and commenced in October 1998. Participants were guided through the process of business start-up and provided with information on  Business Planning,  Financial Planning,  Sources of Finance,  Banking and Business,  Marketing/Market Research,  Business Structures,  Taxation. The main objective of the programme was to inform entrepreneurs of all the facets of starting and running a business and the compilation of a business plan by each participant.  Tourism Marketing Programme: Developed Specifically for tourism operators in North Tipperary this programme. was delivered over a five week period. Fifteen people involved in the tourism industry participated over the five weeks and received valuable information on how to effectively manage their tourism enterprises. Shannon Development Company co-funded this pro gramme.  Business Advisory Officer: The Board recruited a Business Advisory Officer who commenced employment in March 1998. Her responsibility was to devise and implement the "soft support” function of the board as outlined in its Action Plan.  Sub-supply Report.: The Board carried out an initial investigation of sub-supply opportunities in Tipperary North Riding in fulfilment of one of the objectives of its Action Plan. Ten of the larger companies operating in the county covering a broad range of industry sectors including pharmaceutical, agricultural, retail, food, drink, electronic, steel and glass participated in the survey. The main opportunities identified were packaging, tool making, apple growing, handling of returned table top meats, disposal of waste packaging, odd ball steel sizes, asbestos sheet removal, electrical motor rewinds and chalk manufacture. The results of this survey were summarised and advertised in the local newspapers in order to inform the general public of the opportunities as identified. Obviously, it was stressed that any of these potential ideas for development will require further in-depth analysis and research in order to prove viability and profitability as business opportunities in the long-term.  Computerised Management Accounting Training Programmes: During the year the Board ran four Computerized Management Accounting Training Programmes which enabled forty two businesses to computerise their accounts. Training was provided on the Quickbooks accounting package and the programme also involved delivery of one to one training and advice. The February programme was held in Thurles, the second was held in Roscrea in April, another in Nenagh in May and the final one in Thurles in September. The latter two programmes were co-funded by FAS. Quickbooks Euro & Year 2000 Information Evening: In October the Board held a seminar specifically for those clients who participated on the Computerized Accounting Training Programme since 1995. A total of 52 people attended. The implications of the Euro changeover and the Year 2000 problem in relation to the accounting aspect of their businesses was fully explained. The need for further computer training became apparent and the issue will be addressed in 1999.  "Managing for Success" Management Development Programme: An Open Evening was held in September 1998 in Nenagh in order to promote the programme which commenced in October 1998. Twelve business owners/managers are participating on this training course which involves six half day on-site private consultancy sessions with each client and thirteen workshops. The workshops deal comprehensively with topics relevant to small businesses e.g.  Marketing,  Financial Control,  Business Strategy & Product Development,  Finding New Customers,  Quality & Customer Service,  Law,  Health & Safety,  Information Technology  Advertising Promotion. The programme is certified by NEBS and will be completed in July 1999  Board The Board Directors were appointed for a three year period as from 24 April 1995 and their tenure of office expired in April 1998 In January 1998 in accordance with Articles of Association the various Bodies entitled to nominate a representative were requested to do so by the Company Secretary. The nominees were:  John McGinley - County Manager  Tomas O Domhnaill -Shannon Development  Gerard Ryan - FAS  Joe Gleeson - IBEC and CIF  Ger lewis- ICTU  James Murphy - ICMSA, IFA, Macra na Feirme, Irish Co-op Organisation Society Ltd.  Ger Darcy, M. C. C. - Tipperary (NR) County Council  John Hanafin, M.C.C. - do.  Michael Hough - do.  Mattie Ryan (Coole) - do. The Board had discretion to appoint four other persons from the business community and local community organisations. Those appointed were  David Collins  Kathleen Costello  Hilary Henry  Ann Murray, ICA Others who served as Directors during the year were  Jane (Binkie) Hanafin  Mary Lanigan-Ryan Ms. Hanafin had been a member both of the Interim Board, established in 1993, and a Director of the Board, following incorporation. In keeping with her exemplary public service record she was a very dedicated and effective member of the Board and her resignation and subsequent death were greatly regretted. Mary Lanigan-Ryan was a Director for two years in her capacity as President of the North 'Tipperary Federation of the ICA. A very committed member of the Board, she resigned during the year when her tenure of office with the ICA ceased and she was replaced by her successor in office - Ann Murray.  Evaluation Committee: The Board also appointed a new Evaluation Committee during the year. The role of the Evaluation Committee is to assess applications for grant assistance and make recommendations on the most appropriate level and form of assistance for all eligible enterprise projects The sterling service given on a voluntary basis by the previous Evaluation Committee members from November 1993 - April 1997 is much appreciated by the Board. The members of the Evaluation Committee are:  Con Harrington  Hilary Henry  Pat Horan -  Breeda Maher  John McGinley  Tomas O Domhnaill  Robert O'Dwyer. 
