business
{ Jim Rice 
    October 01 2014 06:47 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/press-the-flesh-if-you-want-to-succeed-abroad-30630752.html }
Business networking has been proven to deliver leads and generate trade. It undoubtedly plays a vital role in any business leader's agenda. As president of the France Ireland Chamber of Commerce, I am a strong believer in the power of networking. Establishing partnerships with international organisations is an exciting prospect for any leader and brings with it immense opportunities. However, networking with those from other cultures and countries can present challenges. In today's increasingly digital world, conducting business within foreign markets is high on the agenda for business leaders who want to expand and experience strong growth. But executives are increasingly networking from their desk without so much as a hand shake or exchange of business card. Clearly these online networking tools are effective and efficient in minimising time away from the desk but if cracking a foreign market is the objective, abandoning in-person networking opportunities will not achieve the desired results and leave a lasting impression of your business. A combination of in-person and online networking is key in this digital age to benefit any business. Consistent networking at the right level (ie, decision makers) leads to improved business opportunities. When considering the development of ties with foreign business people, bear in mind that this requires complex skill, relying on integrity, diplomacy and character. Research is key in firstly identifying those markets and then carefully learning about the culture of that market, its current economic, social and political environment. In-person networking is vital to personally connect and build relationships quickly with foreign business people. You can learn more about someone in three minutes meeting them in person than you could emailing them for six months. Identify the networking opportunities that will get you in the same room as those foreign business people. Request a list of attendees prior to the event and identify three to five key target attendees to ensure to meet at the event. This will ensure a highly targeted, well researched approach to the networking opportunity that will maximise potential business engagement. The challenge can often be knowing where to find networking events that are suitable for your business and worthwhile attending from the perspective of developing ties with foreign business people. An ideal place to start is to research chambers of commerce in the area where your business is located. You should also consider any defining characteristics your business has to help determine which events you should attend or bodies to join. Schneider Electric originated in France, so for me the France Ireland Chamber of Commerce was an obvious networking body to join. Creating a networking strategy for yourself should be the next vital step in the process of developing strong connections for business development overseas. In my experience, a well-balanced combination of traditional in-person and online networking results in benefits for business. Finding networking outlets that enable business, economics, politics and social events to co-exist with those representing foreign markets and approaching these strategically will impact your business' bottom line. Strategic development of ties with foreign business people can open doors for collaborative projects. For example private and public partnerships in the energy sector in Ireland have flourished recently due to the collaboration of strengths and innovative developments of multiple countries. More French companies are turning to Ireland for the development of their international activities based purely on the strength of the cultural understanding between the two countries. Establishing and fostering that level of understanding starts from a pointed effort to meet and network with key foreign business people relevant to your industry. Clearly, a one off initial meeting will not suffice. Business leaders must ensure to follow up with foreign contacts met at events, send them promised company details or introduce them to a contact they have expressed an interest in. Develop the relationship on an ongoing basis and resultant business opportunities will arise. Jim Rice is president of the France Ireland Chamber of Commerce and managing director of Schneider Electric Ireland. Indo Business 
