business
{  
    December 04 1997 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/why-i-dont-believe-in-family-business-26200452.html }
ONE of the reasons Campbell Catering and Campbell Bewley Group has succeeded, and my family has survived, has been the separation of family and business. The principle is as fundamental as separating Church and State. We all know of businesses, owned and run by families, which are either business disasters or family battlefields, or both. This is because roles and responsibilities have become confused and the ``right to life'' of the business itself has been ignored. When we started Campbell Catering Ltd 30 years ago my wife, Veronica, and I had to do every job ... from washing the dishes to meeting the bank manager. I became good at wearing different hats and being conscious of which one I was wearing in a given situation. NOT THEIR BOSS As the business grew and we became parents this became important for my children. I am their father, not their boss. In 1994 we brought in outside investors even though we did not necessarily need money at the time. Wearing my shareholder's hat I was able to empathise with their need for a return on investment. At the same time I made sure they understood our vision and values. Our success depends on the continuing support of our customers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, and the community around us. Campbell Catering Ltd was established in 1967 and Bewley's (established in 1840) was acquired in 1986. The group has a turnover of £90m, profitability of £3m and 4,000 employees. The spirit of enterprise which sparked the business still burns and we feel that it is only on the threshold of its growth as an international business. However, our strategy has been to keep it simple. Campbell Bewley is a well integrated business, building on its core competencies and focussing on key market sectors. Too many businesses, and not just family businesses, fail because they haven't figured out why they are in business. A shareholder who happens to be a member of the owner/family may think it is there simply to provide him or her with a steady flow of dividends. Also typical is a ``shotgun wedding'' of business and family. The expectation that second and third generation family members will take an active role emerges as an obligation. This is usually imposed without regard to ability or merit and without being fair to other workers or managers who may have more to contribute. This leads to a demoralised workforce which is unlikely to preserve the business in future. With our own children Veronica and I listened and learned quickly that at least three of the five wanted to work at things other than the business. We only asked that they be happy doing what they chose and that they make a successful contribution to life. Our oldest son Colin choose catering and is now involved in the firm. Before joining he trained and worked for other firms. He knows and welcomes the fact that whatever management position he achieves in the group will be on merit and his shares will not affect his prospects. The others have careers outside the business. Naturally, we would like our children to benefit from the fruits of our labour, but we recognise that even a passive shareholding carries responsibilities. Not everyone may want this. One of the biggest obstacles to longevity in family businesses is the lack of a market in shares. Some family members may want to leave money in the business, others want large dividends, and others want to cash in their chips and start their own business. We invited Granville Investments to take a 20pc stake in 1994. There was no pressing need for equity but we wanted to introduce an ``investor ethos.'' We also wanted to establish value and a limited market for Campbell Bewley Group shares with a view to developing a more ``internal'' market. Over the years a significant number of employees have bought shares in the company and we have a number of share option schemes. Where appropriate the company has bought back shares, but increasingly there is a willing buyer or seller. I would welcome the day when every employee can own a piece of the action and I strongly urge the Government to encourage employee share ownership. Family members generally represent a cross-section of ordinary shareholders, with some in for the long haul while others may want an early exit mechanism. Given that the preservation of family unity should be at least as important as the preservation of the business, an independent person should value shares for those who want to leave. A year ago I split the positions of chairman and chief executive and appointed Michael WCummins to the latter. At the outset we drew up a charter which defined our roles. Such a charter avoids potential conflicts in family firms introducing outside management. Stretching the umbilical cord and letting go are problematic for private business people and parents alike. Unless one can separate the two roles, this difficulty is compounded. History teaches us that even the greatest dynasties eventually run out of steam. The need for enterprise, innovation, change, and renewal challenges every family business and not many have been able to rise to the challenge, generation after generation. Perhaps the biggest obstacle to preserving family business/wealth for future generations is the inability or unwillingness of family members to accept change. Change tends to be all the more difficult to accept in a firm which has a successful track record. The Titanic collided with an iceberg, but complacency sank it. Despite the lessons of experience, however, we have been slow to learn that the most important factor in preserving wealth for future generations is to protect the business from the family, and the family from the business. 
