business
{ Michael Carey 
    August 04 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/top-golfers-show-how-to-tee-up-next-generation-of-winners-29470743.html }
The Irish food industry is an ecosystem of world-class firms, allowing businesses to practise 'co-opetition' HOW business leaders and policy-makers act in the coming months and years, as some green shoots of recovery begin to emerge, will define the scale of that recovery and Ireland's consequential future. We can define that future; we can decide how we want to ride the inevitable wave of economic revival. My suggested approach to take us along the road to recovery is in three parts. I believe the future can be brighter if we (a) play to our strengths, (b) start taking more risks and (c) are conscious of the societal impact of our actions. Now is the time to rebuild to get the best long-term return on our investments, that encourages risk-taking and puts in place businesses and policies that are better than those that failed us in the past. Playing to Our Strengths As a country we have an impressive track record in many sectors. We have very clear competitive advantages that have proven to be a great foundation for entire industries and individual businesses. We should place our bets on the sectors that have the most likely chance of success, sectors that can claim competitive advantages. Our best bet is, I believe, the Irish food and drink industry. We're on a track towards producing enough food in Ireland to feed 50 million people by the end of this decade; we can make credible claims to be one of the most sustainable sources of food in the world. Our customers are demanding sustainable sources of food; no other country is better placed to respond to that demand. The Origin Green campaign launched last year by Bord Bia is a good start; we need to push on further on that journey, with every farmer and food producer playing his or her part. As the world's population grows and eating habits change there will, by 2050, be a demand for 70 per cent more food than the world currently produces. The Irish food industry is an ecosystem of world-class firms and agencies, allowing businesses to practise 'co-opetition', to work together in ways that makes each business stronger, especially in export markets. If we allocate our resources correctly, then the stretching targets we have set ourselves can be exceeded. Take more risk, be an entrepreneur The recovery will be stronger if business leaders take more and better evaluated risks. We cannot, as either a country or as individual businesses, expect to grow by simply cutting costs. The cuts and rationalisation programmes are crucial to remove the excesses and waste that have developed. We have made some painful progress and that process is not yet completed. However, all of this pain will be for nothing if we fail to use our new competitiveness as a platform for future growth. I've just returned from a visit to the US with the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award finalists. This group of some of Ireland's most successful entrepreneurs is hugely positive about the future for their businesses and for Ireland. Spending some time with them, listening to their stories and their ambitions, is a shot in the arm for even the most cynical and pessimistic. These 24 entrepreneurs are a massive force for growth, these businesses are seeking out new and innovative sources of growth and will pursue those opportunities with extraordinary energy and passion. The creation of the next cohort of entrepreneurs will depend upon how we train future business leaders. We should ensure our education system is building the skills and attitudes needed by the next generation of entrepreneurs. Current business leaders need to engage with business schools to ensure that our best academic institutions can use real Irish success stories as examples of what's possible. The Smurfit Business School has made significant progress engaging with business as it improves it international reputation on the key international university league tables. But we also need to start earlier, at primary and secondary schools. Jerry Kennelly, the Kerry-based tech serial entrepreneur, has designed a very impressive 'Junior Entrepreneur Programme' aimed at primary schools which has been tested in Kerry and is now being launched throughout the country, with entrepreneurs in every corner of the country ready to engage with primary school teachers and pupils. At the recent Irish Open, Paul McGinley, Europe's Ryder Cup captain spoke about the reason for Ireland's impressive success rate developing world-class golfers, about the effectiveness of the youth programme and the focused support given to those who demonstrate the skills and drive to become Masters champions. The same approach can work in business: seeking out the most innovative, the most driven future entrepreneurial business leaders and providing them with the necessary training, encouraging their ambitions to be world beaters in business, raising their expectations about what they could achieve. We should aim to support those who dream of creating significant businesses of scale, disruptive new business that defines new rules. If we are to encourage a greater level of risk-taking, within existing businesses and in relation to new startups, we will have to get over our current fear of failure. Sometimes it's OK to fail; sometimes it provides a basis for future success. We need to become more accepting of honest failure and encourage risk-takers to 'go again'. Starting a business may not be the right career choice for everyone, but every business leader can become more entrepreneurial, seeking out new opportunities perhaps with new customers or in new markets. I have spent some time in developing markets such as Uganda and Haiti, countries such as these offer enormous opportunities for businesses seeking new frontiers of growth. Africa is rapidly being recognised as the 'new China', an emerging market with real and sustained growth. Build back better Finally, as we rebuild our businesses and our economy we should, I believe, always strive toward building back better. After the earthquake in Haiti, the government and agencies started out to ensure that every building that replaced a fallen one should be better and stronger than the one it replaced. In Ireland, as we build our recovering businesses and set standards for our banks, we should also replace what has gone before with something better. The Ireland that we are creating now will be a legacy for the future; we can choose to build institutions that we are proud of, that act in a way that makes a positive social impact. We don't want to return to the excesses of the Celtic Tiger economy, the future business environment must be better. We can define that future. Michael Carey is executive chairman of The Company of Food and chairman of Bord Bia Sunday Independent 
