business
{  
    January 03 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/sfa-sees-another-bright-year-ahead-for-small-firms-26197821.html }
THIS year will be the best ever for small business in Ireland, according to the Small Firms Association. The past 12 months have maintained the trend of the past three years where we have experienced continued growth and expansion. The prospects for 1998 are very encouraging, and we can look forward to the small business sector once again playing a major role in Ireland's economic success story, according to SFA deputy director Pat Delaney. The SFA group, part of the wider IBEC employers' lobby, claims to represent over 2,100 direct members and a further 3,000 affiliate members. The SFA prides itself on being well placed to gauge the current state of health of the small business community. It and the rival ISME are the most vocal in pressing the sectoral interests of owner/managers and small employers. Mr Delaney said there is no doubt that small business now leads the way in job creation. In 1997, a total of 51,000 additional jobs were created in the small business sector up from 43,000 in 1996. These results clearly have major implications for policy makers, as we prepare for the new millennium. The SFA has been arguing for some time that the small business sector offers the greatest opportunity for employment creation. These employment statistics confirm that view and should allow a much more focused approach by government in introducing measures to tackle our crippling unemployment problem. His colleague, the SFA director Brendan Butler says that confidence is at an all-time high among the small business community. The features contributing to this confidence can be attributed to a number of factors, including high levels of growth and increased consumer demand in addition to low interest rates. Other important factors have been the historically low inflation, special soft loan schemes for small business, the reduction in employers' PRSI rates, and the large cuts in Corporation Tax rates, now down to 30pc from 36pc two years ago. These factors have combined to the point where over the past twelve months many small businesses have taken on additional employees and, should economic conditions remain favourable, the outlook for 1998 is extremely encouraging, Mr Butler added. In looking ahead there is little doubt that with continued favourable conditions the performance of previous years can be improved upon even further. Looking towards 1998, Mr Delaney said that three events dominate the agenda for SFA and small business. The Government must create the right arrangements to encourage enterprise and job creation. Business taxes remain a significant problem. Further measures to reduce the Small Business Rate of Corporation Tax are necessary, according to SFA, if we are to see continued investment on the scale required to maintain our growth. Employment costs are also prohibitive and reductions in employers' PRSI are also required. The other side of the equation must also be addressed, according to the SFA lobbyists. For many small businesses their greatest asset is their employees. However, the punitive levels of PAYE/PRSI mean that many employees are dissatisfied with take-home pay. An increasing problem facing many small businesses is the inability to recruit new staff. Many owner managers who contact SFA say their greatest competition for new staff is the social welfare system. In a country with massive unemployment levels a continuation of this situation is inexcusable. Another area of interest is the national pay programme, Partnership 2000 provides further opportunities to advance the small business agenda. The SFA participated at the talks at the end of 1996 leading to the current programme. This was the first time that small business was represented and the effects of participation are apparent, in that a range of specific provisions relating to small business are contained in Partnership 2000. A problem with some smaller employers is their reluctance to engage in meaningful dialogue with their staff about the firm's development plans, at least among those that have such plans. One of the more important reforms being sought by small business from government is for a reduction in the administrative burden placed on small firms. The government has agreed that a national strategy will be introduced to ease the administrative burden. Already it has begun to implement its prompt payment regulations for Government departments, agencies and local authorities to pay small suppliers on time. SFA will be campaigning for removal of the statutory audit requirement on private limited companies with an annual turnover of less than £100,000. At present two-thirds of Irish companies ignore the requirement to make annual returns, and very few have been fined for these breaches The lobby group is also seeking the establishment of a consultative forum comprising the Revenue Commissioners, Department of Social Welfare and CSO and relevant Departments and agencies to work with small business representative to eliminate duplication and unnecessary reporting requirements. The various small business lobbies have also secured from the Government agreement that Government departments/state agencies to settle their accounts within the agreed contractual period or face interest penalties. Cash flow is the life blood of many small businesses and this legislation should be of great benefit to small companies, Mr Delaney explained. Partnership 2000 also contains commitments in relation to new sources of finance for small firms, greater support from FÁS for training within small firms and genuine attempts to tackle the compo culture and the cost of insurance which many small firms find prohibitive. The SFA also secured from the Government a commitment to reduce business taxes over the three years of the programme. It should be remembered that of Ireland's 160,000 small firms, 97pc employ fewer than 50 people and they form a vocal lobby. The small business community now accounts for over half of all private sector employment, an estimated. 400,000 jobs. ``It is clear that any government which fails to include significant small business measures in their policies will lose out on what can only be described as a golden opportunity to propel Ireland towards the 21st century with vigour, confidence and opportunities which have been beyond us for so long,'' says Mr Butler. ``It is also imperative that they address issues such as `cowboy operators', business crime and the challenge to get people back into work so that the spoils of our success are seen to be distributed in an equitable manner,'' he said.  ``With a positive economic environment and some specific measures targeted at the sector, the small business community responds with real job growth. The sector has created 36,000 jobs in 1995, 43,000 in 1996 and in excess of 51,000 in 1997. 
