business
{  
    May 10 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/that-fran-he-sure-can-do-the-business-sport-26231321.html }
The brilliantined men in suits need the sweaty men in boots to fill the soulless void in their executive lives, writes Declan Lynch ANYONE with the interests of Irish football at heart will wish Fran Rooney well as chief executive of the FAI. As perhaps the only journalist to pen a front-page piece about the Irish ladies' soccer team when Fran was their manager, I recognised his boundless optimism long before Baltimore made him a star of Irish business. I recall seeing him at a reception for the ladies in Beamish & Crawford, looking 'all business' indeed in a sharp suit, the best-dressed man in the room by some distance, even when he had no money. And the threads no doubt helped him rise above it all, as a typically wrong-headed photographer invited the ladies' captain to pose in a suggestive manner wearing the fetching new strip. He showed dignity that day, something which he will need in spades in his new post, where his very name will invite ribald comments: so England's future lies with Wayne Rooney, while Ireland's lies with Fran Rooney? That kind of thing. So, of the two Rooneys, England are relying on the stupendous 17-year-old player with wings on his feet while our hopes rest on the middle-aged survivor of Shels, Pat's, and the dotcom catastrophe? Take your pick. No doubt, as a real football man Fran will already have taken all this banter. But he has not been tested yet on the bedrock of his philosophy, which he imparted in a series of interviews last weekend. Sport needs business, he said again and again. Football is now business, and must be run according to the top business methods. And Fran is not alone in this: the mantra of business, business, business is spoken in almost hypnotic tones like an old woman saying her prayers, by the men who have been running football and sport in general since the billions started rolling in. Football is now a business, they murmur, as if that is all we need to know. It's a business, and a big business at that. And it sounds like a statement of the bleeding obvious, except for one thing. It's not true. Football is not a business, or at least it's not a business that is remotely comparable to any other business. The purpose of business, as I understand it, is to make a profit. The purpose of football is to achieve glory. And you might argue that it's hard to have one without the other, until you look at Real Madrid. They are the most successful and glamorous team in the world. They achieve some sort of glory in almost every game. But they owe so much money, they are like the reverse of the rich man who is so rich he doesn't know how rich he is. If they were a business, they would be shut down without further ado, immediately joining some list of all-time business infamy including a bunch of Fran's old rivals on the dotcom scene. But of course they're not a business. They're Real Madrid. My local branch of Mace is a business. And I am as pleased as the next man when they report a profit. But I am not a fan of Mace. I do not wait in a state of extreme fear for Mace's results. I do not study the small print on the business pages during the endless empty summers to see if some top man from Londis has been signed by Mace. Football certainly needs money, but it doesn't need the sort of business wizardry which almost destroyed the capitalist system itself in America in recent years. Sport, in its own contrary and illogical fashion, needs a certain amount of business. But it is probably more true to say that business needs sport. Maybe when you add it all up, Guinness needs hurling more than hurling needs Guinness. (Unless, of course, you support the Westmeath hurlers, in which case you need all the Guinness you can get.) And apart from the kudos they get from straight sponsorship, the corporate culture in general desperately needs the cachet which only sport can bring. The guys munching the prawn sandwiches need Man Utd a lot more then Man Utd needs them. They need the whole big-swinging-mickey vibe, the schmoozing, the 'talking telephone numbers in flash hotels', the sense that they own a piece of the action. No matter how steamy it gets on the Nasdaq, no matter how exciting it is to make loads of money doing whatever it is they do, there is a yearning deep down in the executive soul for parity of esteem with the top, top men who actually trot out of the tunnel for another massive, massive, massive game on Sky Sports. You may have more money than God, even more than Giggsy, but you may have got it selling widgets. And that is not enough for any man, especially a man with the readies to buy himself a seat on a private plane bound for the best box at a top Premiership venue. His whole sense of well-being is intimately linked with big nights in the VIP lounge at Old Trafford, lavish hospitality at the Ryder Cup. He's not the guy who sells widgets any more, he's the guy who is keeping Giggsy going. Giggsy, his mate, who gives him the high sign. But still the myth persists that sport in the modern era, and football in particular, would virtually cease to exist 'The corporate culture in general desperately needs the cachet which only sport can bring' if it wasn't for the brilliantined boys with their executive largesse. In fact, Leeds Utd inhaled the spirit of big business so deeply, they nearly ceased to exist about a week ago. Plummeting Baltimore-like, they were saved on the park by a few good footballers, not by the boys in the VIP lounge. They'd all gone somewhere else. Probably to some other 'business' that was crying out for them. Gagging for it. 
