business
{  
    January 21 2013 10:33 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/temp/get-on-course-for-business-success-with-the-enterprise-board-29034983.html }
THE COURSES on offer between now and June from Wexford County Enterprise Board are suited to everybody from established companies to individuals with new business ideas. 'These courses and clinics offer people the opportunity to learn new approaches in a few hours that they can easily apply to their businesses – without leaving the county,' says Tom Banville, Acting CEO, Wexford County Enterprise Board. 'Cost shouldn't be an issue, the courses are heavily subsidised and range from €20, and some are FREE' says Tom. Keeping with the times, Wexford County Enterprise Board has expanded its social media training courses for 2013. 'There has been a huge growth in appetite for that so this year we're offering more tailored social media training. For example we've broken down Facebook into a beginners and advanced session.' Individual courses on offer include: Social Media for Business – Beginners and Advanced; Facebook for Business – Beginners and Advanced and LinkedIn for Business. New this Spring are Blogging for Business and Apps for Business. Find out what Apps your business should be using to help you run your business. Business ideas and starting your own business The three-hour evening seminar Researching and Qualifying a Business Idea on Tuesday, 22nd January is aimed at people who would like to start a business but are still looking for a good idea. This seminar will help them come up with new ideas and evaluate a new idea before launch. The following daylong Business Idea Clinic on Wednesday January 23 is ideal for those that already have an idea for a business or product, but needs some help with the next steps. The Start Your Own Business course, which takes place twice a year, (autumn and spring) is back in Wexford, Gorey, New Ross and Enniscorthy. The 10-week course gives participants the basic essentials required for starting a business. Priced at €120 for 10 weeks, it is also available at €60 for the unemployed. If you have recently started a business, perhaps the SYOB Network – The Empower Programme is what you need. This 12 month programme is aimed at those who have recently started a business but need some support and encouragement. Growing you business New this Spring are two excellent Management Development Programmes for Owner / Managers of Small Businesses. The Retail Development Programme is aimed exclusively at Independent Retailers and over four months, beginning in February, will help any retailer to develop sales growth strategies and world class customer service and improve their retail management and visual merchandising skills. The Accelerate Programme is an exciting Management Development Programme run over seven months which will provide Owner Managers with the management and leadership skills and business knowledge to achieve sustainability and growth in their business. A number of shorter workshops are also in the Spring schedule including Job Incentive Schemes for SMEs, Key Steps to Sales Success, Marketing on a Shoe String Budget and How to get Paid on Time. One-to-one clinics Courses aren't for everybody and sometimes an hour of advice is sufficient. One-hour clinics include: Business Idea Clinic; Business Health Check, Social Media Clinic, Public Relations Clinic and Marketing Clinic For further information on any of these courses, workshop or clinics log onto www.wexfordceb.ie or call 053-9122965. 
