business
{  
    February 08 2011 11:33 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/news/how-to-approach-business-valuation-27341553.html }
Q . I RECENTLY received an enquiry from someone interested in buying my business. It is a small, family business and, while we are well established, we are really feeling the pinch at the moment so selling might be a good option. I want to look into this opportunity, but I am worried about how to value the business. Can you give me any advice on how to approach valuation? A . Congratulations. Attracting the attention of a potential buyer is not easy at the best of times and you have done very well to do so in today's tough trading environment. Valuation is a tricky process and anyone who watches Dragon's Den on TV will have seen how exasperated investors get when people over-value their business. Yet, at the same time, you want to make sure that you reach a fair valuation with which you are happy. It is advisable to first determine how serious the enquirer is about buying the business and, if you ascertain that a sale is a strong possibility, then it is worth getting an accountant or financial adviser involved to help you make the most of this opportunity, as well as a good solicitor, as there are legal and tax implications to consider. The following should give you an idea of the way in which your business may be valued and the information you will need. It is worth bearing in mind that regardless of the valuation used, it always comes down to negotiation in the end. FACTORS IMPACTING VALUATION In the context of a small business, it is common to equate the value to the net cash flows from the business to the owner, i.e. the value of the business equals the profits being generated for the owner and a business valuation is effectively a forecast of future distributable business profits. When working out the actual value, the theory is the same as for larger businesses, however there are other issues to consider when it comes to small to medium sized enterprises (SMEs), such as the entrepreneurial input of the owner(s), and it can be difficult to value such intangibles. The following are some of the factors that impact valuation: a) Assets and liabilities, with assets including property, equipment, debtors, stock and the order book, and liabilities your overall level of debt. b) External factors, such as the performance of the economy and the market in which you operate, the number and value of comparable businesses, and the likelihood of other purchasers being interested in the business. c) Financial performance, including cost control, the need for capital to achieve projected profits, and past, current and projected cashflows and profits. d) Intangibles, including goodwill, intellectual property and customer relationships. e) People, taking into account the experience and skills of key staff, as well as the level of dependency of business profits on the owner(s). CALCULATIONS USED Some industries have their own way of calculating the value of a business and often purchasers will use several methods. The following are some examples of the means used to reach a valuation: Multiple of earnings – this is commonly used for businesses with a record of profit generation and broadly speaking the multiple depends on the size of the business, with smaller businesses valued at a lower multiple than larger. A 'normal' earnings estimate is reached after adjustment for any one-off items. Discounted cashflow – this is similar to the above but is based on cashflow. It is called 'discounted' because future cashflow is estimated and then discounted to take into account the fact that long-term cash flow is worth less than immediate cashflow. Entry-cost – this bases the valuation on the estimated cost of starting up a similar business and therefore includes the cost of buying equipment, employing people, developing products, findings customers etc. Asset-based – this starts with the net book value of the business – the value of assets as stated in the accounts – and adjusts it to take into account bad debts, etc. DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED Supporting paperwork is vital when it comes to agreeing a business valuation for purposes such as a sale. It is based on a forecast of future performance, and therefore both business and industry analysis as to how this performance will be achieved are vital. The feasibility of generating projected profits will be judged on past and present performance and therefore evidence of this is more than likely to be required also. Jim Doyle ACMA is a partner in RDA Accountants offering full accountancy, business advisory and financial services. | 5 Upper George Street, Wexford | Louisville House, Waterford Road, Kilkenny | | www.rda.ie 
