business
{ Gareth Lambe 
    August 25 2013 03:04 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/the-art-of-doing-business-with-facebook-29525614.html }
AS IRELAND'S economic recovery continues, SMEs remain the backbone of not just Ireland's but of Europe's economy, making up 95 per cent of all businesses and responsible for more than 70 per cent of total jobs in the region. In parallel, the internet continues to "flatten" the earth, allowing businesses of all sizes to communicate, market and trade more effectively and inexpensively than in the past – bringing new opportunities. SMEs now benefit from cheaper and faster access to technology which was once the preserve of larger enterprises, from website creation tools through to online marketing. Since Facebook opened its European headquarters in Ireland in 2009 with just a handful of people (resembling something of a startup SME itself), businesses of all sizes have been taking a long, hard look at how they can grow through social media. Today, our 400-plus employees in Dublin can see SMEs seeking to better engage current customers and reach new ones as they look for growth opportunities. Many Irish businesses, because their owners themselves are active on Facebook, are saying to us: "I want to find and engage customers through social media – where do I start?" Humans have an inherent desire to share information. More than two million people in Ireland use Facebook to connect and share information, rekindle friendships and make new ones. People share what they care about, what their interests are, what they do and where they go. When you first think about Facebook, it might be the personal element. But businesses are telling us they want to connect with people too. Think of the potential for your business by being able to interact with a Facebook audience with mutual interests – to engage with current and potential customers, not only in Ireland but Europe and even around the world. Indeed, since Facebook began, small businesses have been very active on the platform. Just as in the offline world, we can make a verbal recommendation to a friend about a good restaurant to eat at or a unique shop to buy from, on Facebook, users can 'like' or 'recommend' their favourite products and services, resulting in online word of mouth for your business. So, whether you are making tentative steps to get your business online or are already marketing your business, we can share some ways Irish businesses are using Facebook to grow. The first piece of advice I would give is to spend time building your business identity on Facebook. Anyone can set up a Facebook page for their business in a matter of clicks. You can add relevant information, including your logo, content and a description of your product or service. Make it as interesting as you can – and try to reflect your business's 'personality'. To make it as convenient as possible to manage your page, our Pages Manager tool is accessible both on desktop PC and your smartphone so you can manage it 'anytime, anyplace, anywhere'. Your page should be at the heart of your business. Musicmaker, one of Ireland's leading musical instrument retailers, is a good example of this. Employee experts from each specialist department in the music store can highlight the latest instruments available and answer questions from interested consumers. Secondly, spend time to see how you can best connect with people who are potentially interested in your business. You can use Facebook Ads to target people who may be interested in your product or service based on their stated interests, age, demographic and geographic information. Once you have decided your business objective and selected a target audience, you will see the potential reach for your ad and can set a budget for the campaign. You can use it to complement your offline advertising also. Thirdly, you can try to maintain relationships by engaging your fans on an ongoing basis. By engaging people through good content, including images and video, you can really showcase your business's personality. Voltaire Diamonds, a Dublin-based engagement ring specialist, has created a competitive advantage by not having a high street store. It adds video tips on selecting the perfect diamond and encourages interaction by asking fans to vote on certain ring styles and to tell their own stories. Some 25 per cent of Voltaire Diamond's sales are attributable to its Facebook activity. Meanwhile, Musicmaker told us that it enjoyed its most successful annual sale in its three-decade history when it promoted it in advance on Facebook, driving people to the physical store through creative competitions for those who queued overnight. It also created Page Posts highlighting the products that would be included in the sale itself beforehand. Think of Facebook as helping not only to drive awareness of your business but also driving traffic and sales on your own website. So, once you are off the ground with your Facebook page, you can introduce special offers, highlight a sale or offer a discount code on your page which can be redeemed during the checkout process on your own website, for example. As with anything, measurement is important to understand what works or doesn't work for your business. You can measure your page's performance using Insights, a free tool that shows information about who your fans typically are and how fans are engaging with your business. This will allow you to constantly refine and improve your product . Each day, we are seeing businesses either taking tentative steps in social media or increasing their engagement with current or potential customers. You can read some top tips that our team in Dublin has put together online at: www.facebook.com/business Gareth Lambe is director, of advertiser operations EMEA and acting head of office at Facebook Ireland Sunday Independent 
