business
{  
    January 25 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/foreign-investment-26282082.html }
The booming economy has seen a growing number of immigrant businesses sprouting up on the country's main streets IRELAND'S booming economy has spurred a number of visible changes in the economic landscape over the past few years. One such phenomenon is the growing number of immigrant businesses sprouting up on the country's main streets. And while there can be obstacles for the new Irish trying to get on to the entrepreneurial ladder, the numbers suggest that many are undeterred by them. According to Dermot Nolan, head of business marketing at Bank of Ireland, every day 10 new businesses are registered in the Republic by foreign nationals - mainly of Polish, Chinese and Russian descent - compared with about half that number 10 years ago. And while there are no hard and fast figures on the growth of immigrant businesses over the past number of years, a new report from First Step Microfinance called 'Immigrant Micro-Entrepreneurs in Ireland 2006' - which is due to be launched next month - states that the number of immigrants in Ireland planning to start new businesses increased to 9.8pc in 2005, up from 7.7pc in 2004. Of course, for some it is easier than others. If you are an EU resident or have a work permit, the rules for setting up a business are the same as for an Irish national. However, if you are not and do not have a work permit, the rules are much stricter. According to legislation established by the Minister for Justice, Michael McDowell, the proposed business must result in the transfer of a minimum of ?300,000 to the State (although this generally applies to bigger businesses). Other criteria include the employment of at least two European nationals with permission granted for an initial period of 12 months. Despite the exceptions to the legislation, the National Consultative Committee on Racism and Interculturalism (NCCRI) is concerned that the provisions be implemented in a way that facilitates ethnic minority entrepreneurs in a manner that fosters an intercultural society. The First Step report notes the experience of Hamilton Niculescu, whose application for a business permission was delayed for about eight months due to a lack of basic information on the preparation necessary ahead of his application. According to John Cranfield, chief executive of First Step Microfinance, which provides financing to entrepreneurs, there is no reason why there is not a one-stop shop for the new Irish who want to establish new businesses. "What we are seeing is akin to the Irish and Italians going to the US in the 1920s and 1930s and a lot of them made money. "There is no reason why that can't be the case here. In the main, we are seeing very professional and articulate people." According to Karol Tracz, 30, the Polish co-owner of the Traditional Polish Bakery based in Ballymount Industrial Estate, setting up a business here proved a lot less difficult than in his homeland. "Opening a business here is a lot less bureaucratic than in Poland. I had no problems dealing with the health department or Revenue, for example." The bakery was established just over a year ago and now employs 15 people. Mr Tracz came to Ireland two years ago and worked in IT before spotting a niche in the food market. He co-funded the business with a partner. "I saw that Polish people were missing many things from home, especially the bread," he said. The products are now sold in 150 shops, mainly household names like Super Valu, Centra and Londis, in Dublin and the bigger towns like Cork and Athlone - but the company is expanding further across the country over the next couple of months. Mr Tracz, originally from outside Katowice in South-Western Poland, said he knows of a number of Polish entrepreneurs operating in Ireland, ranging from construction to the services industry. '"Because I was not Irish I had problems persuading landlords to allow me to rent a premises."' In Leila Ahmedova's case, a Finnish national with a Ukrainian background operating a business in Blackrock, Co Dublin, finding premises was the main problem when she decided to set up Nordic Living - a high-end outlet selling mainly Scandinavian furniture. "Because I was not Irish I had problems persuading landlords to allow me to rent a premises." She said it was not until she got to the legal stage of the process that she had success because she had a reputable solicitor's firm behind her. The business has been running for nearly a year and a half now but after a good start in the run-up to Christmas, there was a difficult period last February/March. "It's an unpredictable business but we got through it." Nowadays, the majority of Nordic Living's customers are relatively wealthy Irish people and the business is going well. Ethnic minority businesses in Ireland, though small, have been in existence for a long time. The main focus, in the past, was in the area of food supplies like Chinese restaurants. However, although foodstuffs and the service sector still dominate, more recently noticeable other ventures include internet and food shops, hair salons and cleaning services and computer sales and services. According to First Step Microfinance, looking forward there are three crucial areas that need to be addressed for the success of immigrant businesses to improve - awareness, sensitivity and credibility. There is also a need for an engagement strategy whereby these businesses could influence policy and practice while existing entrepreneurs could offer mentoring or informal support to potential business owners. According to John Kelly, head of customer strategy at AIB, while a number of the banks have made changes to accommodate non-Irish customers, more can be done. "We obviously don't discriminate, business is business, but we can still learn from how the British banks have adjusted over the past 40 years." He added that, in his experience, one in every 10 new businesses are being started up by the new Irish. "This is visible in a number of sectors and is especially important in food and retail, when you consider that it is estimated that by 2020 one in every 20 persons living in Ireland will be new Irish," he said. MORE than a quarter of engineering and technology companies founded in the United States in the past 10 years have immigrant founders, according to a recent study by Duke University researchers. The study, titled 'America's New Immigrant Entrepreneurs', also states that Massachusetts ranks sixth among states in the percentage of immigrant founders. Co-author Vivek Wadhwa said the study throws up interesting facts, and that it quantifies the contribution of immigrant entrepreneurs, and may change the debate on immigration in the United States. "Economically, the study shows the amazing contributions immigrants make," said Wadhwa, the founder and ex-ceo of Relativity Technologies in Raleigh, NC, and an executive in residence at Duke's Pratt School of Engineering. "That is really what is fuelling the boom. We have to make sure this country stays on and keeps its intellectual edge, and keeps innovating." The study received responses from more than 2,000 companies in the United States to measure economic contribution of immigrants, and international patent applications for US non-citizens for the period from 1998 to 2006 to measure intellectual contributions of immigrants. Asian Indians dominate immigrant technology companies, with nearly 26 per cent of all immigrant-founded companies having Indian founders. In terms of patent filings, Indians are second to Chinese in terms of the number of patents filed. Since data is non-exclusive, and patents have more than one author, the number of patents may be far less than the number of immigrants referred to in the data. A recent study of venture-backed companies by the National Venture Capital Association threw up similar results. Released in December, the study found that over the past 15 years, 25pc of US venture-backed public companies were founded by immigrants. For Wadhwa, it has also meant a change of heart. Earlier an avid proponent of the H-1B visa, he now says the United States has to rethink its immigration system. "America has to be more competitive, has to open its doors," said Wadhwa. "We should want the best and the brightest to come to America. We should make the green card process easier, and make sure we keep these bright minds here." A third component of the study - a closer look at the Silicon Valley and the Research Park Triangle in North Carolina - was also a warning sign, said Wadhwa. North Carolina, which falls well below the national average at nearly 14pc of companies being founded by immigrants, needs to wake up, he said. 
