business
{  
    January 25 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/start-me-up-26282075.html }
<!--.style1 { font-size: 18px; font-weight: bold;}--> How to use your SSIA to get a company going THE long-acknowledged passion among Irish people for entrepreneurship is apparent in annual figures for start-ups. Last year, the number of new businesses which began was 11pc up on the previous year, with 75pc of those using an average loan of just ?10,000 to begin operations. Due to the low level of finance which many business people take out to start up their venture, the maturing SSIAs have been identified as a prime source of finance for early enterprises. Depending on the amount contributed and which type of account was opened, some investors are seeing returns of about ?23,000 on their initial saving investment. However, while comment has increasingly been pointed at personal expenditure and recreational use for the money, there is also a noted, although unquantified, figure for those who have chosen to either put the money into their business or invest in a new venture. Emer McDonnell, Bank of Ireland business prospect sales manager, said last year's most successful month for new start-ups was June, when 1,927 firms registered with the Companies Office. This coincides with the start of maturities for SSIAs, drawing some to conclude that the money being availed of was being used for new firms. "We feel the amount of the SSIA is sufficient for the 75pc of start-ups which require a ?10,000 loan to start and to get their business off the ground," said Ms McDonnell. "That particular amount means they don't have to borrow and they have that capital to go to the bank. If they were getting additional funding from the bank, it would look better for them as well." While franchise operations can need figures in the region of ?250,000 to start their enterprise, the ?10,000 figure is equated with the average needed for most new companies. "A lot of start-ups are very small and start at home or in a very small office and then they will grow," said Ms McDonnell. "To get up and running, if they survive that they would need initial capital. For a small service-based industry, it would fit with the process of business start-ups in general." Director with KPMG private Irish business Cathy Byrne said even though some investors may find themselves with the result of five years of savings, the fundamentals of a good business model remain the same. "Whilst it's unlikely that SSIAs were ever envisaged as a source of seed capital, for some budding entrepreneurs SSIAs could be just the catalyst for helping kick-start a business idea," said Ms Byrne. "Whilst it is unlikely that an accumulated SSIA will be sufficient as the sole source of capital to bring a business idea to life, it could certainly help make a difference. "For those who have been clever enough to invest the maximum SSIA amounts, they are now, after five years of saving, looking forward to collecting over ?22,000. "If you were doubly clever and your spouse or partner did the same, there could be almost ?50,000 in the pot to help get your business started. "A good business idea is a good business idea and just because you have effectively received or are about to receive some 'free' money doesn't mean you shouldn't test your assumptions. "In other words, you are not spending the cash - you are investing it. So check again. Is your business idea a sound one? "It is also worth remembering that if an idea is a good one, then perhaps someone else has already thought of it. "So check out the competition. One of the greatest causes of business failure is people not really understanding the market they are in." Using a low capital base such as SSIA funds means that the cost should be kept to a minimum, according to assistant chief executive of the Dublin City Enterprise Board Eibhlin Curley. "If possible, start the business from home or avail of the cost-effective Enterprise Centres that provide subsidised business units for the first three years of the business," said Ms Curley. "There is no point spending all your start-up capital on office furniture and equipment - consider purchasing these second-hand. "Expenses should be concentrated on producing sales revenue. Cashflow is a major issue for start-up businesses, so careful planning and trying to avail of anything free is advisable, such as free advice. "The key is to develop a business plan and realistic financial projections (12-month cashflow and three-year profit and loss projection) to identify where and when the money will be spent - and very importantly, when revenue can be expected." However, Ms Byrne said a large number of start-ups are hampered by the fact that they are undercapitalised. "Make sure that you have made an accurate assessment of how much money you'll need to fund your business," she said. "Be conservative about your expectations and include all costs. Despite the generosity of the SSIA payout, the costs of setting up a business are not insignificant and experience shows that you are likely to need additional sources of funds." AFTER 23 years of service in the Defence Forces, retired sergeant Ciaran McKenna used his SSIA as a vital part of finance for his new security business. Having set up in May of last year, the Monaghan businessman used his military background in both operations and administration to establish 'Watch-It' security services. One of the main parts of the financing for the new venture was the ?23,000 he had saved from his Bank of Ireland Life equity SSIA. Along with ?20,000 in funds from his retirement gratuity, 'Watch-It' was also set up with some ?15,000 in personal funds. Less than a year old, the company now operates both private security and training and has a permanent staff of eight, with 15 part-time. "If I hadn't got the SSIA I wouldn't be in the business today, realistically," said Mr McKenna. Expecting to make a profit on the new venture in year two, Mr McKenna says overheads are kept at a minimum. "There are no overheads once you have your structure going," he said. "The rest is as a job comes in, you get paid for the job." * FIGURES indicate that the average amount used by a start-up to begin operations is ?10,000. * Some other enterprises, like franchises and heavy industry, will need funds in the region of ?250,000 to start operations. * A fully-matured equity-based SSIA will reap in the region of ?23,000 for some investors. * The funds can act as good initial financing for a new small company or personal investment to show the bank when looking for further funds. * In a Bank of Ireland survey last year, 6pc of businesses said SSIA money would be used to reinvest in the business. * The Central Statistics Office last year reported that SSIA account holders planned to commit around 46pc of their funds to savings, pensions and investments. Roughly a third would be spent on consumer items, with 10pc going on debt repayments and 12pc on other items. * The same survey revealed that 73pc of those classified as professionals held SSIA accounts. Two-thirds of account-holders were making the maximum ?254 a month contribution. 
