business
{  
    January 23 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/perfect-course-if-you-are-keen-in-starting-up-a-new-business-27771589.html }
If youre thinking of going it alone in 2004 and want to make that first leap into running your own business, then an upcoming series of entertaining, informative workshops from Fingal County Enterprise Board could provide you with the answers to all your start-up questions.Commencing on Tuesday 27th January from 6.30 to 9.30 pm at Bracken Court Hotel, Bridge Street, Bal If you’re thinking of going it alone in 2004 and want to make that first leap into running your own business, then an upcoming series of entertaining, informative workshops from Fingal County Enterprise Board could provide you with the answers to all your start-up questions. Commencing on Tuesday 27th January from 6.30 to 9.30 pm at Bracken Court Hotel, Bridge Street, Balbriggan, and running on a monthly basis, these seminars aim to address the key issues facing potential entrepreneurs: Do you have what it takes to run a business? What type of business should you choose? Should you consider franchising? How to research your market? How to write a business plan? The legal implications of starting and running a business? Required insurance cover for a new business? Taxation issues for the self-employed? Who are your customers, and how will you sell yourself and your product? Chief Executive of Fingal County Enterprise Board Mr Oisin Geoghegan is looking forward to a great response to their latest initiative for budding entrepreneurs. "These seminars will provide practical no-nonsense advice on what people need to know when setting up a new business. Starting a new business might not be for everyone and so the first workshop in January will help people make that initial crucial decision whether becoming their own boss is really for them, and if so, to look at the complete range of options available to them. All businesses are different and many have different issues at start-up stage. One of the great advantages of these workshops is that, at the beginning of each session, participants will be encouraged to raise specific issues that they want addressed, to try to ensure that everyone gets the maximum benefit from the evening." Over a series of six seminars, a panel of experts will guide you through the maze of starting your own business: Start-up Alternatives, Tuesday 27th January This workshop addresses the key issues to look at when first looking to go out on your own. While for some, starting a business from scratch might be the best option, for others who perhaps do not have their own business idea, the option of buying an existing business or investing in a franchise operation is a more viable choice. This seminar will help you view yourself as an entrepreneur, and identify the key success and failure factors for your proposed business. It will bring you through those first practical start-up steps and guide you through choosing the best business option for you. The speaker: Ron Immink is an entertaining and engaging trainer with vast experience of start-up and business development advice. He is co-author (with Brian O’Kane) of the best-selling Starting Your Own Business workbook. Researching the Market, Tuesday 17th February Often ignored but recognized as one of the key factors leading to business success – researching the market for your product or service is essential. In this workshop you will be shown the process of internal research to help with creative thinking and idea generation. Then you will learn how to  Define exactly what information you want to get from your research  Keep your methods as simple as possible  Identify the available sources of information  Make sense of the information you have received  Put the research information to good use for your business. This is a practical, invaluable workshop providing essential research tools to help give your business the best start possible. Planning Your Business, Tuesday 23rd March Brian O’Kane "Fail to plan, plan to fail". This hands-on workshop will take you through all the steps you need to create a good and relevant business plan. The business plan is an essential document when it comes to approaching your bank, attracting investors and providing a strategy document for your new business going forward. In this seminar you will discover how to  Put together a practical strategy for your business  Devise a marketing plan  Estimate your sales  Plan your finances, including cashflow projections  Think clearly and write your final business plan document The speaker: Brian O’Kane is an expert on business planning and enterprise development. He is managing director of Oak Tree Press, Ireland’s leading business book publisher and author of the bestselling book, Starting a Business in Ireland. Legal and Insurance Issues for a New Business, Tuesday 20th April There are many legal, insurance and administrative issues that need to be considered when starting a business. You need to think about these before you begin so that you avoid problems later on. This seminar takes you through the legal structures that need to be put in place for your new business, the essential administration associated with starting a new company and the legal obligations of owners and directors. The workshop also takes you through the relevant insurance and risk issues for your new business. The speaker: Michael Bradley is an expert in franchise, financing and business planning and an experienced advisor to small business. Promoting and Selling – Tips and Techniques, Tuesday 18th May So you have your business idea and your product or service, but what is the best way to sell your idea, yourself and even more importantly your product or service? Who will your customers be and what is the best way to sell to them? In this entertaining, engaging and interactive workshop, you will discover how to promote yourself, your business and your product. You will find out how to identify key unique selling points and discover the most useful techniques to help you get customers and retain them. The speaker: An engaging and inspiring presenter, Yanky Fachler is the bestselling author of two books on entrepreneurship. Prior to working as an entrepreneurial trainer, he worked as a freelance copywriter. Taxation for the Self-Employed, Tuesday 22nd June There is a myriad of tax issues for entrepreneurs but if approached in a methodical way, they can be easily addressed. This no-nonsense workshop takes you through the best ways to deal with your tax affairs, the importance of administration, tips to help you avoid common mistakes and pitfalls, how to assess income tax for you and any employees you might have, corporation tax and VAT implications for your new business. The speaker: Brian O’Kane is a qualified chartered accountant and a leading expert on business start-ups. He is managing director of Oak Tree Press, Ireland’s leading business book publisher and author of the bestselling book, Starting a Business in Ireland. The entire programme is specifically aimed at people who are interested in starting their own business. Attendance is free of charge, funded by Fingal County Enterprise Board, but places are strictly limited and anyone interested is advised to book early in advance. Bookings can me made through Balbriggan Enterprise and Training (BEAT) Centre. Tel: 8020400 
