business
{ John  Mulligan 
    February 07 2008 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/your-business-bank-overtures-to-smes-are-music-to-their-ears-26421588.html }
It quite possibly seems rather odd that at a time of credit crunches and liquidity concerns that Irish banks are cutting borrowing rates for small businesses. But not so strange when you consider that SMEs form the backbone of the economy, accounting for 97pc of all businesses in the country. Over the past few months, banks have been scrambling to outdo each other to win favour with the SME sector. Some business owners would probably contend that's a reversal of the position they found themselves in up to the last decade, when it was largely big business that was perceived to benefit most from the banks' overtures. Since last year, lending rates on loans and overdrafts for the small business sector have fallen, sometimes significantly. Last week, National Irish Bank slashed its overdraft rate for SMEs to 6.75pc, representing about a one-third drop on its previous rate. AIB meanwhile has been wooing small business customers with a 6.4pc rate on start-up loans for amounts up to €60,000. "It's in everybody's interest to focus on the SME sector," said Bank of Ireland's head of small business, Damian Young. Bank of Ireland commands about a 40pc share of the SME current account market. "But it's not just about providing finance," he added. "The rates are important, but small businesses are looking for much more than that, especially in terms of advice and training. The bigger proposal is more vital. SMEs value the wider relationship with their bank." Bank of Ireland currently offers a 6pc rate on unsecured loans of up to €25,000 under its developing business loan, which is available to start-ups and very early stage companies. "Needs vary, though," explained Young. "Some companies will require loans for working capital, others for capital expenditure, so we look closely at what their requirements are." Term loans with the bank carry rates of between 6.75pc to 8.75pc for amounts up to €200,000, while the bank's standard business overdraft rate is 10.4pc. Ken O'Sullivan, National Irish Bank's general manager, business banking, predictably says that the response to its rate cuts has been positive. He maintains that the SME market segment has always been a competitive one for the banks. "In the current climate, it's even more important for SMEs to reduce costs, so many are looking at how they can do that through their banking services," he said. NIB claims that by giving SMEs access to its technological platform, those businesses could conceivably save at least €5,000 a year on various transaction and general services. It offers 400 free domestic payments a month to SME customers, while account maintenance fees are also waived until the end of 2009. The crux of all this for the banks, is that by attracting start-ups they secure much longer-term business prospects, as SMEs are unlikely to switch to another institution during the lifetime of the business. Last year, over 18,700 new companies were formed in Ireland, a 2pc decline on the figure for 2006. The figures can only be used a broad barometer of economic activity, however, but still reveal strong activity in the services sector, with the number of restaurant start-ups, for instance, having risen 30pc last year. John Kelly, head of SME strategy at AIB, believes the small business sector is becoming dominated by the services sector, and said that all the banks are vigorously fighting for SME business. Despite some small business owners still offering anecdotal evidence of finding it difficult to secure loans, Kelly counters that those days are long gone. "I might have accepted that argument 10 or 12 years ago, but today, if your idea is bankable then it will be banked." Kelly says the average loan amount for start-ups is about €40,000, while it charges a standard overdraft rate of 10.7pc. AIB, like Bank of Ireland, holds about a 40pc share of business current account business. "The issue with many start-ups is that the people behind them tend to take rejection personally," said Kelly. "There's so many financing channels available now, from agencies such as Enterprise Ireland to venture capital, that if a start-up keeps getting rejected for funding then it might indicate a fundamental problem with their proposition. Banks reject projects, not people." AIB is currently offering one year's free membership to the Small Firms' Association, worth €490, while its also touting free account transaction banking in an attempt to up the ante in luring new business customers. Kelly also advises entrepreneurs embarking on their start-ups to avail of all the tax breaks that are on offer. Under the Seed Capital Scheme, PAYE workers, for instance, can claw back a portion of the tax they paid in the five years prior to establishing their own business. Ulster Bank is another institution that has been fighting hard to win business, and is currently offering new start-ups the opportunity to borrow up to €70,000 at a variable rate of 4.95pc, while it's also providing transaction-free banking for three years. Most business owners, small and large, are anxiously watching to see what the ECB will do on the interest rate front. But the recent cuts by the US Federal Reserve have not been mirrored in Europe, and are unlikely to be. "There is certainly upward pressure on interest rates in Europe," said John Kelly. Thatmakes for nervous times, and provides another catalyst for start-ups to push for the best financing package. 
