business
{ FRANCIS MORIARTY B. COMM, H. DIP IN ED, FCA, AITI 
    July 03 2012 10:01 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/localnotes/good-planning-means-passing-on-a-business-can-cost-just-1-27421496.html }
LAST week, we reviewed succession planning for farmers: this week, we look at other business owners. As outlined last week, when considering succession planning, there are three main taxes to consider: Capital gains tax, capital acquisitions tax (gifts and inheritances) and stamp duty. When leaving a benefit under your Will, only capital acquisitions tax needs to be looked at. There are very valuable tax reliefs available on the transfer of a business. In many cases, it will be possible to pass your business to the next generation without a significant tax liability - but a certain level of planning will be necessary. As far as Capital Gains Tax is concerned the rates and the main reliefs for all business owners is the same as for farmers. As this was covered in some detail last week, I don't propose to go over this issue again. If you would like a copy of our last week's article, please let us know. Capital Acquisitions Tax (CAT) is 'Business Property Relief', giving a reduction of 90% in the value of the business assets taken by the beneficiary. In other words, only 10% of the value is taken into account for the purpose of calculating the CAT liability. Here's an example: John inherited the family business on the death of his father. The taxable value of the business was €2,000,000. Business relief is calculated as follows: Taxable value prior to relief = €2,000,000. Reduction of 90% = €1,800,000. Revised taxable value after relief = €200,000. As the value of the revised taxable value is less than John's CAT tax-free threshold of €250,000, John will not have a CAT liability. Only 'relevant business' property will qualify for the relief. This is defined as: The business (where carried on by a sole trader or by a partnership); the shares of certain companies carrying on a business - generally speaking, all family owned trading companies will qualify; where the business is carried on through a company, certain assets owned by the shareholder, but used for the purposes of a business will also qualify. To qualify for the relief the business assets must have been owned for five years prior to the gift (or two years prior to the inheritance). The value of a business be is determined as follows: If the business is carried on by a sole trader or by a partnership, the net value is taken into account (i.e., after deducting liabilities); if the business is carried on by a company, the value of the shares must be taken into account and 'goodwill' should be included in your calculations. The relief can be clawed back if the business ceases to trade within six years after the gift or inheritance - although there are some limited exceptions; if within that six year period, the business or the shares are sold, redeemed or compulsorily acquired (and are not replaced within on year) What cannot qualify for the relief includes assets which are not used for the purpose of the business, for example investments and, in some cases surplus cash in a business. For most family transfers, the rate of stamp duty is currently 1%. It is impossible to cover all the angles in such a short article as the tax issues can be very complex, however, with careful planning, it is very achievable to transfer businesses without any CGT or CAT liabilities, and with only a 1% stamp duty liability. In our final article on succession planning next week, we will look at some of the non-tax dilemmas that business owners and families face when deciding how to transfer assets to the next generation. Important note regarding the €200 NPPR/second home tax Payments were due to be made before May 31. Payments not made before June 30 will become liable to penalties. 
