business
{  
    January 19 2015 12:37 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/business-owners-to-benefit-under-new-programme-30918820.html }
Business owners across Fingal, as well as Louth, are set to benefit from a subsidised Business Growth Programme commencing next month. ManagementWorks, an initiative by the state agency Skillnets, provides a range of subsidised training programmes to SMEs under the Government's Action Plan for Jobs.  Roughly 2,000 business owners are currently or have participated on ManagmentWorks Programmes across the country and are already seeing the concrete impact it is having on company performance.  The ManagementWorks Business Growth Programme, due to commence in February, is facilitated by leading business coaching and training company Business Coaching Ireland.  The programme, which is delivered over a six-month period, is designed to assist Business Owners achieve greater levels of success in their business.  Structured workshops focus on revenue growth, operational efficiency and enhanced productivity.  A unique feature of the programme is the one-to-one mentoring support participants receive from an experienced business coach, targeted to their individual businesses. Participants that have completed this programme have achieved fantastic results so far in their businesses.  In addition to the tangible results in terms of sales and creation of jobs, participants also benefit from networking with other local companies and have described how the interaction with their mentor has helped build confidence in their business. Paul Fagan, Managing Director of Business Coaching Ireland, said: 'We are proud to be associated with this programme with ManagementWorks. It is wonderful to see how participating companies have grown their businesses and created new jobs. 'This is a superb initiative by the Government and is tangible support to local businesses. Every business in Ireland should avail of this programme.' Brian Colleran, Programme Development Manager, Skillnets, added: 'The Business Growth Programmes are heavily subsidised by Skillnets, they are for SME business owners who want to develop their businesses.  'All programmes are designed to provide the owner/manager with the practical tools and capabilities to drive the business forward. The results are clear in the improved performance of businesses and in the hundreds of new jobs created across the country by programme participants to date.' To find out more about the upcoming programme, Business Owners are invited to attend a Business Growth Seminar & Information Briefing taking place in The Hilton Dublin Airport Hotel, Malahide Road on Wednesday, January 28 from 9.30am - 12.30pm. To secure your place please visit https://businessgrowth2015fingal.eventbrite.ie or contact Stephen Kirwan at stephenkirwan@businesscoachingireland.com or call 01-8916220. Fingal Independent 
