business
{  
    October 28 2015 07:07 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/lifestyle/the-people-and-businesses-in-the-awards-shake-up-34141343.html }
Drogheda & District Chamber are delighted to announce the finalists for each category of the Drogheda Business Excellence Awards.  'We would like to congratulate all the companies that have been shortlisted for the next stage of the competition and also sincerely thank the companies who were not successful this year, for their time and effort in entering and wish them and their business every success for the future.,' a spokesperson for the chamber stated. And the finalists for 2015 Drogheda Business Excellence Awards are:  Environmental Awareness Award sponsored by Premier Sponsor Indaver.   * Aura Sport and Leisure Drogheda, offers excellent state of the art facilities for health and leisure, including a 25 meter pool, a fully fitted gym and two health suites.    * House of Maiya began two years ago as a hobby for 12 year old Fashion Designer Maiya.  She was ten at the time. What began as a hobby slowly began to grow into a business as Maiya and her designs were invited to more and more Fashion Shows, both nationally and internationally.  * Le Cheile ETNS is a primary school and the first Educate Together School in Drogheda.  Their ethos teaches children about the many world beliefs, citizenship, ethics and the environment and morality, with the key word "Respect".    The Best Start - Up Business Award sponsored by LEO Louth  * Nebula Interactive founded in 2014 have built games and apps for iPhone and Android including the hit Water Meter Dash.    * Sixtwo Digital helps businesses get more from their social media… by being social. By listening to business's needs, they then deliver and execute campaigns that drive engagement, traffic, reach and, most importantly sales.   * WALK Louth are leaders in a movement for change empowering people with disabilities to live self-determined lives in an equal and inclusive society.  Their role is to bridge the gap between young people and facilitate access to meaningful, sustainable employment.    * Physio Performance offer manual hands on treatment, advice and education on injuries and exercise to a wide variety of clients in the Drogheda Area.  SME Business of the Year sponsored by AIB  * Fuschia Make-Up set up in 2005 spotting a niche in the market. With no high-end make-up store in Drogheda they soon became a destination shop in the area, and are now the #1 Professional Make-up range for salons and spas across Ireland.   * Blackstone Motors were appointed the main Renault Dealer for Drogheda in 2008.  They were promoted to Regional Dealer and given the region of Louth, Meath, Monaghan and  Cavan for all Renault Franchise operational responsibilities to include Vehicle supply & sales, after sales, Marketing & Network standards, Management of the Local Dealers performance.  * You're Gorgeous Hair (YGH) comprises of two hair salons who pride themselves on providing their valued clients of all ages with quality products and services.  They constantly seek to innovate through teaching, training, mentoring and motivating from trainees through to management.    * Outsource Group deliver services to other businesses.  Their facility services offering is tailored to the needs of the client, which includes everything from commercial cleaning, environmental pest control, key holding/alarm response, ground maintenance and manned security.    Hair Health & Beauty sponsored by Drogheda Chamber  * A Touch of Class Hair Salon began as a small business venture and now stands as leading salon with a loyal and extensive client base.    * Peter Mark a family owned and run hairdressing company has been in business since 1961 opening in Drogheda in 1985 (10 years in Scotch Hall and 30 years in the town!).  Peter Mark invest in training and education to ensure the long term stability of the company proven by employing 1600 people across a wide range of departments within the company.    * You're Gorgeous is also up for a second award by being shortlisted for this category.  With a salon in Stamullen & one in Duleek they provide an excellence service to their clients in the North East.  * Haven Holistic & Beauty Centre celebrate 10 years in the holistic and beauty sector this November.  With a focus on success and a passion for high standards in customer service Haven has gone from strength to strength.    Micro Business of the Year sponsored by Microfinance Ireland  * The Crafty Fox recognised a gap in the craft sector in North Leinster, providing a 1 stop shop for hand craft supplies to the public, schools and other businesses in conjunction with training facilities where people gain useful skills in a fun and social environment.    * Sixtwo Digital, up for a second award, offer 3 services -  training, strategy development and channel management to clients.  The help other businesses get more from their social media by…..being social!    * Achieve Marketing is a marketing communications agency that specialises in messaging and writing. They help business owners to use the written word to sell their products and services.   * This is the second category Nebula Interactive has been shortlisted for.  Founded on the core principals of the lean start-up and strong customer relationships that drive referrals and repeat business, they have positioned themselves as the fast moving company that uses its lean structure to adapt to the demanding climate of the online world.  Professional Services sponsored by  IPASS  * Achieve Markeing is also shortlisted for this category.  They write all types of marketing material such as adverts, blogs, whitepapers, websites and social media posts. They provide training on marketing communication and mentor business owners on their 'message to market' strategy, helping them identify who their ideal client is, what their unique selling factor is and they help match their message to their ideal client to create momentum.   * Myhomecare is a nationwide HSE approved home care and home nursing specialist provider, delivering safe, high quality, cost effective homecare solutions complemented by 24/7 telehealth monitoring.   * Cobra Bookkeeping and Training offer an in house tailor made bookkeeping solution to small and medium companies who do not require a full time accounts department.  Critical business decisions require fully up to date and meaningful reporting and Cobra provide their clients with monthly management accounts to assist their business growth.  * Le Cheile National School opened their doors in 2001 in the Drogheda Grammar School dormitories with 46 pupils.  They now have a purpose built school with 438 pupils and a staff of 31.  They have managed to thrive and now serve the multi-cultural pluralist society of the greater Drogheda region.    Best Customer Service sponsored by Irish Cement  * Aura Sport & Leisure up for a second award believe in their six values which should be evident in everything they do while working with customers and patrons, they are: Excellence, accountability, openness, commitment, learning and enthusiasm.    * Fuschia Make-Up's customers are the lifeblood of the organisation and they are open in saying without them, they simply wouldn't be in business.  Fuschia's biggest key performance indicators are their client numbers, client retention percentage and the average customer spend all of which emphasis "The Fuschia Effect".  * Haven Holistic & Beauty Centre are committed to excellence in customer care and work closely with suppliers to keep staff refreshed and up to date on the latest treatments and products on offer and organise regular in house training and also offsite training. They have also invested in software system which allows them to review clients statistics under areas like spend, repeat visits and preferred staff etc.     * Blackstone Motors pride themselves on Customer Service.  Both directors are customer facing and lead by example.  A standard of expectation is communicated by the Directors to Department Managers and Staff Members regarding customer service.  The sales showroom and After-Sales reception is amalgamated and open plan. The purpose of this is to ensure all customers both new business and existing come into contact with a staff member of the sales or after-sales department within two minutes of entering.  Best Tourism Offering Award sponsored by Louth County Council.  * Celtic Adventures started in June 2012 with just 10 canoes and now have grown so much in the last 3 years that they run camps packed full of activities. They also offer canoe trips on the Boyne for the first time ever.  * The Westcourt Hotel are a privately owned hotel company , consisting of 27 bedrooms, West 29 Restolounge, Barroco Bar & Mex Tex Grill;, & the recently refurbished Earth Nightclub.  They are in business 24 years.     * The Highlanes Municipal Art Gallery opened in 2006, has developed a complex ambitious Exhibition and Collection programme working with artists locally, nationally and internationally, and with other public galleries and private collections in Ireland, UK & Europe, to create visual art exhibitions and partnerships of excellence.   * An Grianan opened in 1954 for the 'health, education and welfare of the people of Ireland'. Over the past 60 years they have continued to provide educational and self development courses in a relaxed and friendly environment.  They do this by fostering a love of traditional arts and crafts and encouraging the sharing and progeression of age old skills to the younger generations in the hope that they will lvoe cherisha dn pass them on too.    Rotary Workforce Development Award sponsored by IFS a State Street Company  * The Highlanes Gallery, as part of the Drogheda Cultural Services, hosts 11 people under the Department of Social Protection's Community Employment programme; the return-to-work scheme. The gallery does not shy away from people with disabilities and like other not-for-profits, the gallery both benefits from and gives a service to those involved in these programmes.  * WALK Louth up for their second award are leaders in a movement for change empowering people with disabilities to live self-determined lives in an equal and inclusive society.  Central to the ethos of WALK is that people with disabilities have the right to live self-directed lives in their own communities, employment is an essential part of this.  * Peter Mark are also shortlisted for Workforce Development and through their investment in training & developing of their staff, the company has retained and grown their workforce 10 fold.  Continuous incentive programmes are ongoing and staff are rewarded by with Hair Education courses in Peter Mark College and Seminars from industry leaders and icons.  * Louth Volunteer Centre is an organisation which provides a "one-stop-shop" for supporting voluntary activity within Louth.  Best Dining Experience Award sponsored by Oriel Food Group.  * The Corkscrew Brasserie was established in 2013 offering first class gastronomy and exceptional customer service. Their menu offers both casual dining and fine dining.  * The Forge Farmhouse is up and running 4 months and already employs 14 staff. They are a small local business providing fresh local ingredients to their customers daily.  * The Westcourt Hotel is a privately owned hotel company with lots of dining options available.  West 29 Restolounge offers a delicious range of fresh cuisine & Barroco Bar & Mex Tex Grill is a Hotspot amongst locals and visitors serving a Mexican inspired menu.    Sustaining Women's Empowerment in Business and the Community sponsored by Coca-Cola International Services   * Lorraine Murphy- President of Network Louth/Meath  * Elaine Finnegan- The Secret Hair Salon  * Fiona Rock- Principal of Le Chéile National School  The next stage of the competition involves either an interview or a Mystery Shopper depending on the category.  It is a very exciting time for the finalists, with all the winners being announced at the Gala Awards Ceremony in the Westcourt on the 14th of November.  Tickets are going fast now that the finalists have been contacted so please reserve your place by contacting the Chamber by e-mail manager@droghedachamber.com or call 041-9833544.    Drogheda Independent 
