business
{  
    March 28 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/trend-for-passing-on-family-businesses-is-dying-out-26122960.html }
By CHARLIE WESTON    THE trend for families' businesses in Ireland to be passed on  from one generation to the next is fast disappearing, a new... THE trend for families' businesses in Ireland to be passed on from one generation to the next is fast disappearing, a new survey has found. Just 28pc of Irish family businesses make it to the second generation, research conducted by the Irish Management Institute and sponsored by advisers to owner-managed firms Grant Thornton Ireland has found. Family businesses tend to be smaller than non-family businesses - the average size of a typical family business in Ireland is small, with on average 25 employees. The survey found that 50pc of the 430 business owners surveyed considered their firm to be a family business. The respondents strongly agreed that family and business affairs should be kept separate. They also said children who join the business should start at the bottom and that sibling rivalry is not good for business. Children should not have to wait until the death of the previous generation to receive shares, the owner-managers felt. The survey also found agreement that criteria should be established to decide how family members join and leave the firm. According to the survey, the main difference between a family business and a non-family one is that a family firm tends to put family before business. Concerns of family business owners tend to revolve around loss of control, the effects of disputes or divorce on the business, and the fact that the owner's wealth is tied up in the business. Other worries include the source of future funding and losing or relinquishing control. However, family business owners tend to worry less about growing the business than is the case with non-family firms. Catherine Goodman of the Irish Management Institute (IMI) said the report showed that the general population of Irish businesses held a balanced view of family and business affairs. ``Despite considerable family involvement, it is interesting that many Irish businesses do not consider their business to be a family business,'' she said. However, owner-managers do not see succession as an issue, which the IMI thinks may indicate that they intend to dispose of the business, or because they have failed to plan for the handover. 
