business
{  
    February 27 2015 12:09 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/small-business/plan-of-action-aib-launches-programme-to-boost-small-businesses-31027073.html }
AIB has ramped up its support for SMEs and business owners with the launch of a new programme for the sector.  In one of the biggest announcements of the programme, AIB said it would cut 2pc off its standard variable business loan as part of €200 million in funding to Ireland's SMEs. The new rate of 4.5 per cent per annum variable follows the government's announcement of how the Strategic Banking Corporation of Ireland (SBCI) is set to support the SME market. This lower cost of credit should go some way in assisting SMEs to invest in their businesses. Individual loans of €5 million are being made available under the scheme. They will have a minimum term of two years and a maximum term of 10 years. AIB's credit approvals for 2014 were up 50pc on 2013, as it approved €6.4 billion in business credit to the SME sector. The bank is now guaranteeing that any loan applications up to €30,000 will be decided within 48 hours. Some 95 out of every 100 applicants are being granted loans. Ken Burke, head of Business Banking with AIB, insists that it is not returning to the heady days of Celtic tiger lending. "We use the strapline well-managed growth. We lend on the basis of cash flow, and businesses must be able to demonstrate they can repay the loans. We are backing those businesses that have sound business plans and good profit generation. It's nothing like the experiences of the past," says Burke. "We are very optimistic for the outlook of the broader SME sector and are backing SMEs who persevered through the tough times." SECTOR BY SECTOR AIB has taken a sectoral approach to its new programme, as it aims to understand the specific needs and dynamics of key sectors driving the economy. This latest programme comes on the back of 10 sectoral reserach reports in an 'outlook' series by the bank, which included research into the dynamics and performances of individual sectors such as dairy and long-term healthcare. AIB has teamed up with key industrial bodies to gain insight into the various sectors, and has been building its own capabilities by taking on board experts in various fields. Burke says the aim of the reports has been to develop appropriate, relevant products that cater for the varying needs of business. "That is our customer proposition. We recognise that one size doesn't fit all," says Burke. AIB's relationship managers have been taking bespoke training programmes, and some 85pc of the bank's 1100 staff now hold a professional qualification or are in the process of obtaining one. Through its report into the exports market, exporters reported a need for knowledgeable staff. AIB has now put in place 85 exports champions at its branches and business centres across the country, who are assisting SMEs in areas such as foreign exchange and trade finance. PARTNERSHIP The bank has formed a partnership with DHL Express to offer customers a 50pc discount on logistics rates. In late February, it also launched a partnership with global trade credit insurance company Euler Hermes, to give AIB customers access to export credit insurance. The new product called Simplicity is available to SMEs who bank with AIB and who are exporting or considering exporting goods and services. "It's a simple product that makes it easier for customers to protect themselves. These are two real examples of things we are doing that bring added value to exporters," says Burke. AIB's shift to non-traditional bank type products has been regarded as a positive step for the bank, as it strives to be innovative in assisting customers do business. But it is also providing serious financial assistance to its business customers through a range of funds. In August 2014, it announced the €500 million extension of its agriculture fund, which is aimed at supporting the ongoing development of the farming sector through finance for capital expenditure, working capital and asset finance. The €350 million New Homes Development fund, launched in February 2014, has been a significant support to the construction and supply of new homes in the cities and suburbs of Dublin, Cork and Galway. The €300 million Healthcare Fund is supporting investment in the healthcare sector, specifically to nursing home operators. The €100 energy efficiency fund, launched in 2013, supports energy efficiency across the SME market. AIB has also partnered with the Irish Times to establish a start-up academy. It held a number of seminars across the country with over 1,100 attending. Over 300 SMEs applied to the academy to put forward their proposals to win a prize fund worth €250,000, which would help them start their business venture. "We now have 11 finalists who are going through an intensive training programme - and the overall winner will be selected in April," says Burke. AIB has also recently become the exclusive financial services provider for the DCU Centre for Family Business. BACKING BRAVE Amidst all of this, AIB has adopted the marketing slogan "Backing Brave", which Burke says recognises the bravery of owner managers in setting up businesses and taking risks. "Small firms are the bedrock of our economy, and are the lifeblood of the Irish private sector. They make up 99pc of businesses in Ireland, and provide 70pc of employment. They must be core to our community business franchise," says Burke. AIB's continued support of the SFA National Small Business Awards is a further indication of its commitment to small businesses. "The finalists at this year's awards are all very worthy, enthusiastic and passionate about their business. Some have worked through challenging times, others have been brave enough to set up their businesses in recent years. They are shining examples to other businesses, and their contribution to the economy is very commendable." Irish Independent 
