business
{  
    April 29 2013 03:26 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/localnotes/fresh-start-for-business-29218039.html }
Are you looking for a 'Fresh Start' in business? Do you have a business idea that just needs that extra edge to get off the ground, or an existing business that needs a transformation? If the answer to any of these questions is yes, then this great new competition with a total prize fund valued at €20,000 is right for you. Brought to you by The Argus and The Business Centre, Dundalk, 'Fresh Start' is an innovative approach to helping businesses and entrepreneurs make that breakthrough. Aidan Harte, Managing Director at The Business Centre (www.thebusinesscentre.ie) explained that this is 'a competition like no other' which offers a wide range of supports for those interested in developing a business idea to its best potential, or existing business owners aiming for a reinvention. This was echoed by Michael Ryan, Operations Director - East at Independent Newspapers Regionals who said 'Fresh Start' provides the opportunity for businesses to take a giant step forward on the road to success. The top prize, with a total value of €10,000 will see one lucky winner securing a free office for three months at The Business Centre, featuring room for up to six people, with all associated costs covered. The winner will also secure six half day business mentoring and coaching sessions provided by experienced and qualified consultants. Free website development and expert e-marketing advice will be backed up by additional consumer market research, and an exclusive business profile/ advertising in The Argus. There will also be two runners up prizes, valued at €4,000 each, where each person will secure a business profile in The Argus, three half day business mentoring and coaching sessions, website and e-marketing advice, a virtual office/hot desk at The Business Centre, and consumer research. The competition also features four 'highly commended' prizes valued at €500. Entrants will be asked to submit a business plan which will be considered by a four person judging panel including Aidan Harte from The Business Centre, Michael Ryan from Independent Newspapers Regionals, Fergus McArdle, Managing Director, KMR Accountants Dundalk, who is also currently chairman of Bord na Mona, and Professor Tom Cooney, Head of Entrepreneurship at Dublin Institute of Technology. Amongst the eleven businesses based at The Business Centre are two which play a significant role in this 'Fresh Start' Competition, Optimum Results a training and consultancy business with a long and proud track record working with the owners and managers of Small and Medium Sized businesses (SMEs) and Customer Perceptions which has an equally impressive history in the field of Consumer Research. With prize winners also benefitting from expert guidance and mentoring from both Optimum Results and Customer Perceptions, to develop their business, this competition is one not to be missed. Full details of how to enter are included on this page and online at www.thebusinesscentre.ie Please send entries by email to competiton@thebusinesscentre.ie or post to 'Competition', The Business Centre, Blackthorn Business Park, Coe's Road, Dundalk. Entries to be received no later than May 31st 2013. The Argus 
