business
{  
    April 07 2011 10:09 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/temp/passing-a-business-on-to-family-members-27722912.html }
BE REALISTIC COMMUNICATE CLEARLY PLAN EARLY KNOW THE FIGURES GET ADVICE PREPARE TO LET GO RDA Accountants | 5 Upper George Street, Wexford | Louisville House, Waterford Road, Kilkenny | 053 91 70507 | www.rda.ie Q I OWN a small but profitable family business. It took a lot of hard work and long hours to build it up and I would like my children to benefit from this when I retire by passing the business on to them. What is the best way to approach this? A This is a very important step for you, your family and your business. The success of a family run business tends to be down to the hard work and immense loyalty and dedication of family members towards making it work. However, hand-in-hand with this comes high emotional involvement. This makes succession planning a sensitive yet critical issue, and care is needed so that everyone feels that they have been dealt with fairly, that the business continues to thrive under the next generation'scontrol and commitment, and that you have enough money to enjoy your retirement. The sooner you approach the process of creating a 'succession plan' the better as the more time you have the easier the transition will be. I would advise that you keep the following in mind. The future of the business depends on it being run by someone who has the required skills and capability, as well as the inclination. You need to remain objective in this respect. It may not be possible to pass on the business equally to your children as one or more may be more capable. If you identify a successor early, you can spend time training them and helping them to acquire the necessary skills. If none of your children work in the business, or in the same sector, they may not want or be able to run the business and you might have to consider selling. Understanding your options should be your starting point. Talk to your family about the decision and how you are making it and involve them in the process. Create a formal, written succession plan. Don't leave room for ambiguity and make sure that everyone understands the outcome. This will avoid disappointment and disputes further down the line. Business succession should be a long term process. A problem that can arise for a family business owner when looking to pass the business on is that most of their worth is tied up in the business – the result of having continuously put profits back in to drive growth. However, this means that they cannot access that worth when they retire and pass the business intact to a new generation. It is a good idea to plan ahead by putting funds aside gradually over time, so that the process does not impede business operations yet you have enough money to retire; for example, through company pension contributions or structuring your pension to maximise the lump sum retirement figure. If you plan to retire soon and do not have time to use a mechanism such as a pension, you could consider a redundancy payment, which has a tax-free sum, or selling off part of the company or business assets to release funds. Also, by identifying a successor early and setting a date for retirement, you can create a long term handover plan that is staggered, to help reduce business disruption. This is particularly important in a family business where relationships – with customers and staff – are often key to success, as it gives everyone time to adjust to the change and for teething problems to occur while you are still involved. It is important to get the business valued and not to rely on a rough estimate or guesswork. This clarity helps with family discussions and also with understanding tax implications. When a business is sold or transferred, there are Capital Taxes to be considered, such as Capital Gains Tax, Capital Acquisition Tax, Stamp Duty and VAT. There are reliefs and concessions available, but these come with conditions that need to be understood at this stage of the planning process. As you can see, there are many financial options and tax considerations to consider and it is a good idea to get professional financial and tax advise as this can save a lot of money for you and your business. Having put so much time and energy in to your business, you will most likely find it hard to let go when you retire. As well as planning financially, you need to be emotionally ready to pass on the business and let the next generation get on with it. Jim Doyle ACMA QFA is a partner in RDA Accountants offering full accountancy, business advisory, tax advisory and financial services. 
