business
{  
    February 24 2011 01:31 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/temp/getting-that-new-venture-started-27721704.html }
Q I have an idea for a new business venture, but I don't have any money to get started. Where should I go to look for funding? A There are several sources of funding for new businesses, and I have summarised the main ones below. An important point to bear in mind is that a solid business plan with realistic cash flow forecasts is essential for gaining any type of financial backing, whether a grant, loan or investment. If you haven't started on your business plan, I would advise you to do so straight away and before you look for funding. Getting your business idea ready for pitching to financial institutions, government bodies and investors gives you an early opportunity to refine your research and put in place a realistic plan of action that will give you a higher chance of succeeding. GOVERNMENT GRANTS AND FUNDING The City and County Enterprise Boards are some of the main providers of grants for new and small businesses in Ireland. They offer three types, including priming grants, which are available within the first 18 months of operation, and feasibility/innovation grants, as well as business expansion grants for established enterprises (www.enterpriseboards.ie). There may also be funding associated with starting a business in a particular sector – for example, Enterprise Ireland provides funding and support for companies that manufacture and/or export (www.enterprise-ireland.com); or with particular business activities – for example, Enterprise Ireland Innovation Vouchers can be exchanged for research and development services from third level institutions (www.innovationvouchers.ie) while the Fas Work Placement Programme (WPP) gives you access to a staff member for nine months without having to pay a salary as social welfare payments are provided (www.welfare.ie). SUPPORT IF YOU ARE CURRENTLY UNEMPLOYED The Back to Work Enterprise Allowance scheme is for people who are unemployed and looking to start up a business. It allows them to retain a percentage of their social welfare payment and also includes extra supports such as grants for training, market research, business plans, etc. (www.welfare.ie). Regional micro-enterprise networks give access to start up loans as part of a support package to help unemployed people set up a business or become self-employed (www.first-step.ie). START-UP LOANS Banks and building societies are a source of start-up loans, as is the Credit Union, with some local credit union offices working with their city or county enterprise boards to offer small business support loans (www.creditunion.ie). First Step, which operates the regional micro-enterprise networks mentioned above, also has a loan scheme specifically for people who have applied for finance to start a new business and have been turned down (www.first-step.ie). INVESTORS There are two main types of investors – venture capitalists and business angels, both of which are a source of business funding in return for a share of the business. The Irish Venture Capital Association (IVCA) defines venture capital as 'medium to longterm finance provided in return for an equity stake in potentially high growth unquoted companies'. It says business angels may be a preferred source for 'entrepreneurs requiring small amounts of funding, particularly at a very early stage in the development of a business'. The main difference with a loan is that the investor's return is dependent on the performance and profitability of the business, whereas a lender has a legal right to repayment regardless of the business outcome. This means that an investor has a keen interest in the running of a business and some are willing to provide their experience and skills to help build it, as well as give you access to valuable contacts. Therefore, it is worth looking for an investor with experience in a similar business or sector. More information and search facilities for entrepreneurs looking for investors are available from the IVCA (www.ivca.ie), The Business Angel Partnership (www.businessangels.ie) and the Irish Investment Network (www.irishinvestmentnetwork.ie). There is also the option of applying to go on 'The Dragons Den' programme on RTE, where investors go before a panel of high profile business people to try and gain investment (www.rte.ie/dragonsden). FAMILY OR FRIENDS Borrowing money or gaining investment from family or friends can put a strain on a relationship, so it is best to put in place formal guidelines to ensure everyone is happy with the situation. This could include the interest rate agreed, the notice period to be given to recoup money and an appointed mediator in the event of a dispute. Jim Doyle ACMA is a partner in RDA Accountants offering full accountancy, business advisory and financial services. RDA Accountants | 5 Upper George Street, Wexford | Louisville House, Waterford Road, Kilkenny | 053 91 70507 | www.rda.ie 
