business
{ Sean Gallagher 
    March 08 2014 01:05 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/garage-owner-picked-up-a-gear-at-height-of-downturn-30075123.html }
Economists tell us that the motor industry serves as a very reliable barometer as to the state of the economy. Often seen as one of the first sectors to be affected when there's a downturn, it is also one of the first to show signs of improvement when the economy eventually picks up again. With the market for light commercial vehicles, used extensively by local small- and medium-sized business owners, up 41 per cent in February compared with the same month last year, and new car sales up 28 per cent so far this year compared with the first two months of last year, perhaps it's true that we are, at last, beginning to see a sense of confidence returning to the market. With this in mind, I am excited to visit Paul Linders of the Linders Garage Group. Paul obviously shares such optimism because, just recently, he opened a new car dealership in Finglas, in north Co Dublin, to add to the one he already runs in Chapelizod. "We sell both passenger and commercial vehicles and are main dealers for both Renault and Dacia ranges," explains Paul. Like most garages, the business offers a complete sales, service and repair service to customers who come mainly from the city centre and the north city areas of Dublin. Paul is particularly pleased that, after a tough few years in business, he is now creating 20 additional jobs in the area. He is the third generation of his family to be involved in the motor industry. The business was set up in 1938 by his grandfather Sonny Linders, in Smithfield, when he was just 19. "He was a really hard worker who worked as an engineer by day, lectured in Bolton Street College in the evenings and who, at night, would pull on his overalls and head to his small garage to work on repairing trucks and cars," explains Paul. "He was a very honest man and built the business on the back of that reputation." In the Sixties, the introduction of a credit finance scheme by the car manufacturers and importers changed the future direction of the motor industry by making it possible for ordinary people to buy a car. During that time, his grandfather took on a franchise for the Fiat brand and later, in 1973, became the first Toyota dealer in Dublin city. Paul's father Joe then joined, and together he and Sonny grew the business. They also diversified into other areas, building housing and office developments throughout Dublin, as well as setting up a wholesale engineering business selling boilers and burners which they brought in from Italy. "And my father still runs these businesses today," explains Paul proudly. The main motor business is now run by Paul with the help of his father and his Uncle Pat who are both directors of the company. Paul grew up in Clonskeagh in Dublin and studied Business and Law at University College Dublin. He didn't, however, join the family business straight from school. "In our family you had to go and gain experience first. You sort of had to prove yourself," says Paul. He took up a role in merchandising with the Green Isle Food Group where he worked his way up to management level in the UK sales division. "It was a great company which had a very structured environment and where everyone was highly driven. Looking back on it now, I was fresh out of college and it was the real kick in the pants that I needed," admits Paul. After five years he decided to take a year out and do a little travelling. However, the news that his late mother had fallen ill brought him home. He also felt too that it was now time to join the family business. In 2002, the company was doing well and sales were growing steadily. The location of the garage in Smithfield was now proving increasingly problematic. Limited space and further parking restrictions began making it difficult to run the garage there. The value of the site made it attractive for development and so the family decided to relocate the garage to Chapelizod and subsequently develop the site into a mix of commercial and residential units. Between 2002 and 2007 the garage did a booming trade, selling, on average, 700 new cars per year. "Then the downturn hit and the bottom literally fell out of the industry," explains Paul. "We lost 60 per cent of our business almost overnight. That same year, both the system of road tax and the vehicle registration tax (VRT) changed from being based on the engine size to being based on the carbon emissions of the vehicle." Overnight, that change knocked about 25 per cent off the value of the used car stock he had on his forecourt. With margins of only 5 per cent, it was another serious blow to the company. "What many people don't appreciate is that 80 per cent of the time a customer buys a new car, they trade-in their existing used one. So we don't actually get paid in money, we get paid in stock, which we then have to sell in order to actually get our money back let alone make any profit," insists Paul. He adds that if he doesn't complete that cycle within about two months, the costs of holding that stock means he ends up not making a profit on either the sale of the new car or the sale of the trade-in. By 2009 things had gotten even worse. With just over 50,000 new cars being sold nationally, it turned out to be the worst year ever for the car industry. "What saved us over the next couple of years was that we were not heavily laden down with debts unlike many other garages. We were really lucky that we had resisted the pressures on us to build one of those big glass palaces," says Paul. It was that resistance that ultimately meant the survival of the company. Those who had borrowed large amounts of money at that time did so against the security of the value of the land on which their garages stood. When the industry went into rapid decline, it was further compounded by the collapse of the collateral value of the site on which the debt was borrowed. As a result, garage owners ended up being hit hard from both fronts. At that time too relationships between garage owners and their banks became dysfunctional. For many, the relationship would ultimately be beyond repair. "We had to dramatically reduce costs," explains Paul. "We were forced to let 16 of our staff go. I knew all them well, and knew all their families. Many had kids in school and mortgages to pay. It was the most awful time," he tells me. "We then had to focus on selling the three things which we could sell: cars, parts and labour," he explains. Together he and his team worked hard to increase sales. He even rolled up his own sleeves and got back onto the sales floor himself. His hard work and that of his staff paid off. Their efforts eventually saw the business break even in 2011. The world of business can sometimes be like a jungle where some businesses survive and others fail. Some even survive because others have failed. In 2013, Paul got the opportunity to take over the franchise for Renault for Dublin North. Sadly, it was the demise of Bill Cullen's business that ultimately led to the franchise becoming available. He is delighted to see Bill recently return to the garage business. "He's been a great ambassador for this industry over many years," says Paul. For now Paul is focused on restoring Renault's position within the Dublin city market. In addition, he wants to concentrate on building the Dacia brand. Is there one word that might describe his business? "Soul," he responds immediately. "Soul. Our success has always been built on our reputation. We are decent people with integrity. And we will continue to work hard to maintain and grow the business." Paul Linders is the third generation of his family to be in the motor industry. It is in his blood. He has faced many difficult times in recent years and has had to make many unpleasant and challenging decisions in order to survive. Having taken the difficult and unpleasant decision to let staff go, the fact that he has survived has meant he is now in a position to create more jobs and more opportunities. While fresh from the pain associated with the downturn, Paul and his family remain optimistic for the future. And it is such optimism that is the heart of most entrepreneurial businesses. While we all face uncertainly and adversity on a daily basis, it is optimism and a sense of hopefulness and confidence about the future that allows us imagine better days and brighter times ahead. That's certainly something we could all use more of.   Business Masters  Company Linders Garage  Business Car sales, service and repairs Set up 1938  Founders Sonny Linders. His grandson, Paul Linders, now heads up the business  Number of employees 42  Turnover €20m  Locations Finglas and Chapelizod in Dublin Sunday Indo Business 
