business
{ Sean Gallagher 
    April 12 2014 12:05 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/small-business/firm-overcomes-teething-problems-with-success-of-baby-health-product-30180131.html }
Every person who has ever set up a successful manufacturing business will tell you, without reservation, that developing and making a great product is only part of the process of building a great company.  The real key to building a thriving business lies in getting their product to market and in generating sales. No sales, no profit – no business. It's as simple and as complex as that. For firms wishing to sell through the retail market, this means getting their products on to the shelves where potential customers can buy them. Most choose to use specialised distribution companies who already have sales staff on the road calling to these very outlets and who can manage elements such as ordering, stock delivery and merchandising on their behalf. One such example is Pharmaher Healthcare Ltd in Co Meath. Set up in 2003, the company is run by Andrew Maher and his wife Chiara. The business specialises in the distribution of over-the-counter healthcare products into the Irish pharmacy, grocery and retail multiples. To date they have successfully built up a significant business with more than 2,000 pharmacies already on their books. "We work with both Irish and international brands," explains managing director Andrew. "Our biggest seller includes a range of children's vitamins known as L'il Critters Gummy Bears. Kids love the flavours and fun gummy bear shapes," he explains. These are not the only kids' health products they distribute – they also sell a range of allergy and sinus relief products, paediatric health kits and ear protectors for children with grommets to prevent water getting in their ears. For adults, they have an extensive range of eye, ear and dental care products, vitamins, diet and weight loss supplements as well as a variety of first aid, bathroom and mobility aids. They even sell a ring which, worn on the little finger, promises to banish snoring. "It also comes with a 30 day no-quibble money-back guarantee," explains Chiara chirpily. It's easy to understand why she is so successful in looking after the marketing side of the business. Andrew Maher is the third generation of Mahers to be involved in the healthcare sector. He grew up in Drogheda, Co Louth where his grandfather set up the family's first pharmacy back in 1929. His father also became a pharmacist and so too did his younger brother who, along with his sister, now runs a pharmacy in the town. "My earliest memories as a child are of helping out in the store whether stacking shelves or generally helping to keep the place clean," explains Andrew. After school he completed a Diploma in Business and Finance in Gloucester in the UK before going on to study marketing in Portobello College in Dublin. While Andrew always had a desire to set up his own business, he decided it would be wise to first get some experience working for other companies. His first job was in sales with Cadbury Ireland. However, the pull to the healthcare sector saw him move into various business development roles with companies such as Gerard Laboratories, Clonmel Healthcare and Rowa Pharmaceuticals eventually progressing to become country manager for a multinational dermatology company, Galderma. Andrew developed a passion for selling and for building relationships. He worked hard and was never afraid to travel long distances if it meant getting the sale and keeping his customers happy. Chiara on the other hand, grew up in Bantry, Co Cork where her parents owned the local Bantry Bay Hotel. She too remembers days and evenings helping out in the business. "Like Andrew, I too did my fair share of packing shelves and cleaning," she says, laughing. "Maybe that's where we both got our strong work ethic," she adds. The pair met when Andrew was attending a function in her parents' hotel and Chiara had been drafted home from Dublin for the weekend to help out. She had studied European Studies in University College Cork and then went on to complete a Masters in Business Studies in Marketing at the Michael Smurfit School of Business in UCD. She worked in a marketing role with telecommunications company Ericsson before landing herself the job as marketing communications manager with Bank of Ireland global markets. Everything was going smoothly until 2003 when things took a turn for the worst. Andrew lost his job with Galderma. "It came like a bolt out of the blue. I didn't see it coming" he admits. "While the Irish division of the business was performing well, the company took a decision to cut back on staff across all management levels globally and I was unfortunately part of that redundancy cull," he explains. What initially looked like a disaster turned out to be the very motivation Andrew needed. Within days he set about starting up his own business. He registered the company and the brand name and then immediately set about looking for a suitable product which his new distribution business could market. As fate would have it he came across the product he was looking for much closer to home than he had expected. The couple had just had their first child, Laina, who was teething badly at the time. He and Chiara were both keen to use a natural-based teething product but struggled to find one that was suitable for young babies. Research led Andrew to a US healthcare company who manufactured a natural teething gel known as Gumeze. Realising the potential of the product, he quickly went about negotiating the distribution rights for the product for Ireland. He was now officially in business. He immediately got on the phone and began ringing all the contacts he knew in pharmacies around the country. Most were happy to have his new product listed. "Then I literally hopped into my car and called to all 1,100 pharmacies throughout Ireland at the time. I was literally overwhelmed by how supportive they were," he explains. He called to every one of them, no matter how big, or small or how remote they were. "It took him the best part of a year and meant him being away from home as many as four nights a week," explains Chiara. "But we realised that that's what it was going to take in order to get the business off the ground," she adds. It wasn't an easy time for Chiara either. As well as being a mother to their five-month-old child, Chiara was commuting daily to her work in Dublin. Once the business began to take off, however, it made sense for her to move full-time into the company where she could bring her marketing and communications expertise to help develop the business. The following year, in 2004, they came across the L'il Critters Gummy Vitamin brand for children which became their first big breakthrough within the Irish market. "These were a number one seller in the US at the time and it was one of those times when you just know instinctively that the product was going to sell here," explains Andrew enthusiastically. They began to develop a knack for spotting good products. In 2005, they became the first company to introduce alcohol-free hand sanitisers into Ireland which became a huge hit with the outbreak of the swine flu in 2009. It led them to win contracts with a host of new customers which included schools, hospitals, churches, corporations and even the Dublin Airport Authority, all of which helped boost their turnover while also helping control the spread of the disease in the country. The pair quickly developed a reputation among manufacturers for not just for shifting boxes, but for helping build their brands in the Irish market. When the Good Night Anti-Snoring Ring company approached them, Andrew and Chiara worked with a Co Louth-based retail display company to successfully help design the packaging and display units for the product. It was so successful that they were given the contract to ship their products throughout Europe. Funding a start-up is always a challenge for its founders and it was no different for Andrew and Chiara. Like most new companies they did not have a trading history or track record and so had to pay for products up front. With lead times of up to 60 days before they received some goods and their additional requirement to offer their retail customers standard credit terms, cash flow was a constant challenge in the early days. However, the pair persevered and today they have grown sales to over €3m. But the pair are not content to just sit back. Their plans to supply both European and US markets will see their turnover jump to as much as €15m over the next two years. "What's the secret to their success?" I ask. "I think it's because we are constantly on the lookout for new products," explains Andrew. He tells me he is hugely excited about a new diet product the company plans to launch in the very near future. And he explains they are working closely with Loughrea-based firm Chanelle Veterinary to develop a Pet Care brand for pharmacies. Losing one's job can be a terrible blow. In the case of Andrew Maher it turned out to be a blessing in disguise. It became the motivation he needed to finally propel him into starting his own business. Whatever about the challenges most entrepreneurs face in starting and growing their businesses, one thing is certain, Andrew and Chiara Maher have the can-do attitude and the determination to succeed. 1 Don't put all your eggs in the one basket. "It's important not to rely too heavily on one product, because you never know what can happen. It is best to try and spread your risk across different product ranges." 2 Ensure you have distribution contracts in place. "Maintaining good relationships with manufacturers is vital. However, it is also important to have proper distribution agreements in place." 3 Keep innovating. "You have to keep looking for new trends in the market and new products that might fit into your business. This will help you continue to grow and expand your business." Sunday Indo Business 
