business
{  
    September 15 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/business-invited-to-speed-networking-event-in-bangor-27770340.html }
Fingal County Council has teamed up with the Signal Business Network in Co Down to provide an opportunity for businesses in Fingal and Northern Ireland to come together to network one-on-one, build business relationships, generate new trading opportunities and expand client bases. The event is taking place in Bangor on Thursday, September 29.Business speed networking is an e Fingal County Council has teamed up with the Signal Business Network in Co Down to provide an opportunity for businesses in Fingal and Northern Ireland to come together to network one-on-one, build business relationships, generate new trading opportunities and expand client bases. The event is taking place in Bangor on Thursday, September 29. Business speed networking is an enjoyable and simple way to meet potential business contacts in a structured environment and is designed to get people talking, building contacts, and sharing ideas, opportunities, experiences and resources. There are many types of business networking events, usually resulting in people gravitating to those they already know. Business speed Networking, however, allows the opportunity to meet many people in a short space of time, making the event much more productive as a way of making new contacts. Declan Ryan, Business Development Executive with Fingal County Council, said: ‘It has been evident over the last few years that many Fingal businesses are looking across the border in search of new business opportunities.’ He added that the Development Department had also received numerous requests from local businesses seeking information on trading in Northern Ireland. ‘On the day of the event there will be an opportunity for Fingal businesses to meet over 40 businesses from the Greater Belfast and Co Down area. The event is structured in such a way that it ensures all businesses get the chance to meet and discuss business possibilities,’ he said. Places for this event are limited so early registration is advised. Businesses wishing to register for the event, or who wish to find out more, should contact Declan Ryan in Fingal County Council at 01-8906205, e-mail declan.ryan@fingalcoco.ie. Businesses can also register for this free event at: www.signalbusiness.co.uk 
