business
{ Harry Leech 
    August 04 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/most-small-firms-believe-profits-can-be-stabilised-29470776.html }
Just over two-thirds of small businesses believe their profits will either rise or remain flat this year according to the Sunday Independent Business Owner's Survey. Although most small and medium sized businesses in Ireland believe that they will turn some sort of profit this year, one in five firms say they expect to see staff numbers fall this year through a combination of redundancy and natural wastage. Almost half of respondents, 45 per cent, said that their profits would remain flat again this year, while 22 per cent of businesses say they expect profits to fall during 2013. Just under one fifth of those surveyed, or 19 per cent, said that they believe this year would be a better one and that they hope to increase profits, while 14 per cent of small and medium enterprises are expecting to make a loss for the year. The single biggest threat to Irish businesses is consumer confidence, with 41 per cent of those surveyed saying poor consumer demand was the biggest threat facing their business this year. Despite banks insistence that they are 'open for business', the next biggest threat to Irish business is difficulty accessing credit for working capital, with just under one in five saying that it was the biggest threat to their livelihood. In recent years the Business Owners Survey regularly found that rents were one of the biggest challenges to business profitability, but the market seems to be addressing that issue as just 5 per cent of those surveyed said that rental costs was the biggest threat to their business. While rents may be less of a burden on small businesses, the news is not all good however – while staff costs have fallen in recent years, and just 14 per cent of businesses saying that is their biggest challenge in 2013, one in five employers say they expect the number of people they employ to fall this year. The vast majority of businesses, 59 per cent say that they expect to maintain staffing numbers this year, while one in five say they expect to employ some more people during the year. The official unemployment rate of 13.5 per cent, while lower than this time last year, doesn't look like it will plummet in the next twelve months. According to Mark Fielding of ISME, the results underscore the dramatic effect that consumer confidence has on business. "Uncertainty is by far the biggest issue facing business today – consumer demand is on its knees and unlikely to get better anytime soon. The major issue facing Irish businesses is that while revenue has plummeted since 2007, costs are down only marginally", he said. Fielding believes that there may be a slight improvement in the lot of some businesses, but it is localised to certain sectors of the market. "There is some sign that there is a very slow, gradual recovery starting to happen, but it is localised to certain industries. Exporters have reason to be optimistic, but if you're in retail you don't see any increase in economic activity. Talking to our members in retail, almost none of them believe they will increase employment numbers in the next 12 months", he said. Sunday Independent 
