business
{  
    August 23 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/a-stitch-in-time-saves-nine-26371196.html }
WHEN Ava Cassidy and her business partner Kate Reilly set up their clothes design firm 'Kate and Ava', their primary focus was on the look of their new range of products. As time went on, however, the two recent college graduates realised more focus needed to be brought into the business side of their venture and they sought advice from a business mentor. "Every step we went, we needed a business plan, we needed more money, we needed to get more focus on the business side of things rather than just focusing on the design," said Ms Cassidy. "We needed to put some sort of infrastructure in place so that we could progress it all." Having invested ?5,000 between them, the two women turned to mentor Daire Coffey to show how to progress to the next step. "We said we wanted to put together a business plan, to be able to apply for the grants which were available. We had to look at the bigger picture because we were so involved in it ourselves - it is very hard to step back from it and look at it from a business point of view," said Ms Cassidy. "Daire was able to do that for us. We had written notes for a business plan and we had used jargon that other people wouldn't have known off the top of their head that we would have thought was simple. "We hadn't explained the whole design process in our business plan and she told us that we had to go through all that with people, the whole background with the story. "It was definitely beneficial, she was really good help with the focus we needed to get a business plan together. "She did help us with marketing ideas and that sort of thing as well and help us focus on our customer profile." Tapping an experienced business person for their knowledge is one of the most important services for an entrepreneur but also for an existing business, according to Eibhlin Curley, assistant chief executive at the Dublin City Enterprise Board. "The Mentor acts as a confidential sounding board for making strategic decisions between different strategies," said Ms Curley. "Mentors from their experience can raise issues that might arise if a client follows a particular strategy and possibly suggest alternatives. "As the business grows the owner or manager may be faced with growth opportunities that demand a level of experience and knowledge not yet available within the company." Partner in the audit and advisory section of BDO Simpson Xavier, John O'Callaghan agrees, saying mentoring is also important for those who aspire to senior positions. "It is very easy to get caught up in the minutiae of day-to-day work. One of the key things about having a business mentor is that maybe you have someone who has a wider perspective on things in general who can sometimes make you see that wider perspective," said Mr O'Callaghan. "The other key thing is that you need to have somebody who can sit down and openly discuss issues and problems. "Hopefully this person has experienced these things themselves or has dealt with a lot of other people who has dealt with them. "Again you get that additional perspective on things." Typically, mentors and business advisers are paid for providing their knowledge on a topic - although in some instances, there are grants available to businesses to get a mentor's advice. "A mentor is just one of a suite of key advisers. Any one of the key advisers needs to be someone who is approachable, who understands you, who can communicate with you and who you are at ease dealing with," said Mr O'Callaghan. "That is critical or you are not going to get the best out of it. On top of that, you want to have a mentor who maybe has particular experience you are wanting to get assistance with. "If there are particular business issues which are coming up for you, you might well want someone with a skill set who will be able to give you more practical assistance in those areas." Eileen McPartland, a businesswoman who has been mentoring for the last four years, says the process is "hugely rewarding". A number of businesses which avail of her services are not yet aware of what sort of help they need, she said. "Often you might get two people in who are friends and want to set up in business. One of the first questions is whether they have considered to have a shareholder agreement or a partnership agreement," said Ms McPartland. "This is one of the biggest areas of problems in small businesses as it is. Dissolving a partnership can be as much a problem and operating within a partnership situation can also be a problem. "People go in with the best of intentions but at the end of the day it is a business and should be treated in a businesslike way. "We go through a checklist of where they got the idea from, sometimes it can be a copy of somebody else's idea and while they may think they can do it, they may not have the wherewithal to do it at that particular time. "You need to be sure that the person can get on with the business at that particular time." One of the key problems for start-up businesses is establishing how much the business is going to cost to get off the ground, she pointed out. "People feel that making predictions, they will make some huge amount of money and that might not always be the case. "There could be somebody who wouldn't budget for making enough sales because they are convinced that it might not take off as quickly as it might. Also it is important to give them the right contact so that they can talk to somebody else or somebody else who they know has been through some of the problems that they might come across." The mentoring process is recommended as an ongoing process throughout the life of the business, said Mr O'Callaghan. "I would suggest that if it is not an ongoing process, I would ask myself the question 'at what stage did I think that I had nothing more to learn'," he said. "We are on a learning cycle throughout our professional and private lives and so really this is something that keeps us pushing ourselves more or challenging ourselves and having this key person around who is able to help us challenge ourselves." 
