business
{ Independent.ie Newsdesk 
    November 21 2014 09:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/small-business/motor-men-shining-a-light-on-the-horrible-histories-of-our-used-cars-30764599.html }
So far this year, the figure for new car registrations has reached over 95,000 for the first time since 2009, according to the Society of the Irish Motor Industry. It's a welcome turnaround for a sector that, like many others, was badly hit during the recent economic downturn. This increase in the number of new cars being sold also means that more and more trade-ins or used cars are arriving on the forecourts of dealers all around the country. In addition, many thousands of used cars are being sold through car websites or directly by their owners. In fact, some 720,000 uses cars have changed hands so far this year. And while buying a used car may seem like a relatively straight forward process, buying from someone you don't know, brings with it a raft of potentially hidden dangers. This week I visited a company who specialise in providing the type of information that car buyers and those in the automotive industry need in order to make informed purchases. Based in Swords, Co Dublin, Motorcheck.ie is an information and technology company that provides car history checks through their online website service. It's a simple but incredibly smart business model that takes large amounts of complex information and through the use of the most up-to-date technology, provides this information to customers in a quick and easy-to-use format. "Our information essentially allows consumers and members of the motor trade to perform a data check on the history of any used vehicle before they part with their hard-earned cash," explains Motorcheck's managing director, Michael Rochford. The company targets a number of distinct markets. In terms of the consumer market, Michael's analysis of industry statistics show that one in every four vehicles has some form of hidden history. And with more than 50,000 cars written off by insurance companies each year in Ireland, the majority of which have been repaired and put back on the road without being fully disclosed, it is hard for those buying a car to know the vehicle's true history. "We have found too, that 15pc of vehicles on the road today may have been clocked or had their mileage changed at some point," explains Michael. Worrying too, are the results of the company's research that suggests that about one third of used cars being sold have some hire purchase or debt finance owing on them. To better explain what the company does, Michael gives me a quick demonstration of his company's website service. Firstly, I enter the registration number of the car I want to check. The system then offers me a number of different types of options which includes a check on the car's finance history only, a check on the history of the car's mileage and whether or not it has ever previously been written off and finally, an estimation of the car's current market valuation based on extensive market information. There's also an opportunity to get a full history on the car, even if it has been imported from the UK. Once I have paid the relevant fee, the report I have chosen, instantly appears on the screen in front of me. And at a price of between €8 to €35, depending on the type of report you choose, it's relatively inexpensive compared to the costly mistake you might make if you didn't have access to such valuable information. In addition to the consumer market, the company also provides an enhanced version of their service to the motor trade for professional car dealers which also allows them to research, in advance, the vehicles they are buying. "We also provide our service to other more corporate-type clients who have a requirement for detailed automotive data such as insurance companies, motor manufacturers, parts companies, tolling, parking and fuel companies," explains Michael For example, insurance companies use Motorcheck's data to help arrive at a fair market price to be paid to a car owner whose vehicle is to be written off. Similarly too, car parts firms use the service which, by keying in a vehicle's registration or chassis number, helps select which part should be shipped in the event of repairs or replacement parts being required. "Over the lifetime of a car, a car part can be improved and revised many times by the manufacturers and it is important to correctly identify which revision of the part is correct and best suits a particular make and model of vehicle," explains Michael. Bringing such complex data together and providing it in an easy-to-use format requires, not just a thorough knowledge of the motor business, but also a high level of technological expertise. Between them, Michael and co-founder Shane Teskey appear to have both in abundance. Originally from Dublin, Michael Rochford completed a degree at the Dublin Business School before taking up a job with Guinness where he worked in their sales information department. His work involved analysing market statistics and helping to prepare sales forecasts for the company. After that, he worked for a Dublin-based software firm called Quest Computing where he spent the next few years before making the decision, in 1999, to strike out on his own and set up his own website development business. In 2002, he met Shane Teskey, with whom he co-founded his current business. Shane Teskey grew up in Co Limerick. For an entrepreneur, he had taken a more indirect route to the world of business by completing a degree in Drama at Trinity College Dublin. "That might give you an insight into the character of the man," explains Michael with a smile. "He is creatively brilliant and is always coming up with new and innovative ideas for the business," he adds. After college, Shane joined Enterprise Rent a Car where he worked his way up to the role of sales before eventually leaving to join Merrion Fleet Management. When the pair met in 2002, both found that they each had a passion for business but realised too that by combining their individual skills and experience they could possibly create a better business together than either might be able to develop on their own. Having brainstormed a number of possible business ideas, they settled on the current one because it complimented Shane's background in fleet management and Michael's background in technology. Together, they set up Benchmark Fleet Services, with a focus initially on delivering data and intelligence to fleet customers to help them buy company vehicles. "We were doing well at the time. But rather than sticking to what we knew, we allowed ourselves to get dragged into supplying companies with the actual vehicles and finance for their fleets," explains Michael. Thankfully for the pair though, they quickly realised that this was not their core strength as a business and began to re-focus their efforts on their original idea of providing data services and as a result, in 2006, launched their new car history checking service called Motorcheck.ie. "We were very lucky we did this. Because by the time the recession hit in 2008, the original fleet side of our business had shrunk anyway and we counted ourselves fortunate that we had made the move back to our core business idea. Otherwise I'm certain we wouldn't be around today," admits Michael. The pair had learned a valuable lesson in business. By engaging in every opportunity that comes along, entrepreneurs can spread their efforts and resources too thinly across too many projects. Very often in business, branching off in too many directions can mean that you ultimately prevent the strongest branches from flourishing. "We realised that saying 'yes' to the one great idea was not what was important, it was actually saying 'no' to the hundreds of other good ideas that we were being presented with - and that eventually helped us become successful." He cites the company's recent win in the Fingal Enterprise Awards as evidence that the company is now definitely on the right track. Their recent move to sell their data services outside Ireland has seen them already sign up their first few large overseas corporate customers. "While the Irish market remains our key focus, we see ourselves continuing to grow the export side of our business over the next three to five years," explains Michael. As I begin to wrap up my visit to Swords, Michael insists that he recognise just how critical the staff have been in the business's success. "While we are a small, dynamic and agile company, the one thing everyone in our business is passionate about is delivering a product and service to the customer that not only meets, but exceeds, their expectations. And that makes all the difference," he insists. Michael Rochford and his co-founder Shane Teskey are talented entrepreneurs. And like all good entrepreneurs their journey started when they spotted an opportunity in the marketplace for services they felt they could deliver. Wisely too, they realised that by combining their skills and experience, they were stronger as a team than as individuals. And while, in the early days of their business, they got distracted by the sparkle of other lucrative activities, they quickly realised where their real strengths and opportunities lay. Having made the decision to refocus their efforts on their original business idea, they began to experience great success. These pair of entrepreneurs can be proud of what they have achieved so far. Not only have they grown a successful business and created much-needed employment, their services continue to provide valuable information to thousands of car-buying customers who might otherwise suffer potentially disastrous car purchases.   OVERVIEW Company Name: Motorcheck.ie Business: Car history and data services to the public and automotive industry Set up: 2002 Founders: Michael Rochford and Shane Teskey Turnover: €1.2m Number of Employees: 10 Location: Swords, Co Dublin   MICHAEL'S ADVICE FOR OTHER BUSINESSES Do something you enjoy "There are ups and downs in any business - and if you enjoy what you do then it will help you persist when times are tough. Your passion and enthusiasm will also give you a big advantage over your competitors." Be prepared to adapt "Everything has a limited shelf life, so be prepared to change your products and services as markets do. Innovate, but do so strategically. Saying no to the hundreds of good ideas is just as important as saying yes to the one great one." Keep a eye on the bottom line "The old saying is true: 'Turnover is vanity, profit is sanity, but cash is king.' Keep focused on making a profit or you won't be to get the technology and staff you need in order to realise your business's true potential." Sunday Indo Business 
