business
{  
    February 07 2012 09:25 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/news/wexfords-county-enterprise-board-has-spent-years-encouraging-local-talent-and-start-up-businesses-within-the-county-27351433.html }
WHILE other organisations might be focused on attracting new businesses to come in to Wexford and set up a business in the county, Wexford's County Enterprise Board has spent years encouraging local talent and start up businesses within the county. In his ten years involved with the Enterprise Board, Tom Banville (pictured) has seen several fantastic success stories, and continues to be impressed by the spirit of enterprise that's in the county. 'We deal with little businesses,' he said. 'We generally deal with start ups and small businesses, and they are grown from within the county.' And from small acorns, often grow strong trees. One of the greatest success stories in recent years, has been the website Donedeal. 'I remember Fred Karlsson coming into myself with a business plan,' said Tom. 'It went from nowhere to being one of Ireland's best known brands. People don't even know it's from Wexford. It's a real success story.' 'They got a little bit of grant aid from us, and particularly business mentoring in terms of Marketing and Human Resources,' he added. 'That would have been all new to him, and we were in a position to provide business mentors to him, and he often said it was very useful to him.' Another successful local company is Wexford Bus, and they too used the CEB'S mentor service for marketing. 'Business mentors are possibly the biggest request we get,' said Tom. 'In ten years, I've built up a panel of experts in different areas of business, from finance, to general management and marketing. People come to us if they are looking for help in a particular area in which they are not strong.' 'A lot of the work we do would be business networking, and using that to help start up businesses,' he added. Strong branding is important to a business, and indeed to the county itself. Websites such as www.wexford.ie and www.wexfordmeansbusiness.ie promote the county from a tourism and business point of view, while the Wexford Festival Opera, and food items such as Wexford strawberries and Wexford potatoes have been incredibly strong brands for the county. 'Branding is not just a logo and a name,' commented Tom. 'It's about customer service, and getting a reputation, and being expert in a particular field, and having a product that becomes number one in the field you're in. Initially it's about the name and the logo, but it's important that you get repeat business and customers come back. That's what makes a brand.' 'They trust it, know it and believe in the product and service, and are sometimes willing to pay a premium,' he added. 'That's what a lot of brands aim for. It's to become a premium product. It's about trying to establish their business as being the best at what they do. Then they can grow and further develop their business.' Some of the brands in Wexford have gone on to become national brands. Tom pointed out that in the times that are in it, the spirit of enterprise in the county is often by necessity. 'We started out running five or six Start Your Own Business courses a year,' he said. 'Now we run ten or twelve. It's getting busier every year. It amazes me that we consistently get fifteen to twenty people on a course. If 150 people go through our programme each year, maybe fifty people go forward and create a job for themselves.' 'The programme has constantly delivered, year on year,' he added. 'So many organisations are providing support and encouragement, and there's plenty of help out there if they want to avail of it. Getting their hands on funding from the banks is an obstacle for people, but there are people that maybe have savings and want to invest.' 'You're meeting entrepreneurs every day, and seeing them grow, from being one self employed person, to having ten employees,' he continued. 'It's particularly satisfying seeing them grow and having success.' 'Wexford is a good place to do business,' he added. 'Wexford businesses support their own. I think it's a great county for supporting each other, and a tremendous amount of business networking goes on. Fred Karlsson of Donedeal says he loves the place, and loves having his business here. He's an example of someone who appreciates that you're close to the sea and all the amenities in Wexford, but you're not too far from the big city and the airports. There is a good business community here, and they really support each other.' 
