business
{ Ciaran Brennan 
    November 29 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/your-business-taking-the-first-steps-26335160.html }
You've got the business idea. You've got the desire and energy. You just need the cash and not a lot of it to get the business off the ground. But if you have no collateral, no known financial history or, even worse, a bad credit history, raising finance for your business venture may be next to impossible. Unless you try microfinances, a specialist form of business lending to micro-enterprises. First Step Microfinance, the only institution in the Republic of Ireland that is purely providing microfinancing on a nationwide basis, was set up in 1991 to offer access to finance to people in the community who had difficulty in obtaining start-up loan finance. Since then it has helped almost 1,500 companies to get started. It specialises in lending amounts of less than €25,000 to start-up companies with less than five employees. To a large extent the mainstream financial institutions have avoided the microfinance sector for their own commercial reasons, explains First Step's chief executive John Cranfield. "The banks have their own lending criteria which includes security or checking the credit bureau. And the follow on from that, they are not in the high risk business because they have to protect their shareholders' funds. Micro businesses are small business accounts and the banks don't want to have a proliferation of those because they are costly to manage." In contrast, First Step is guided by the principle that if anybody wishes to start their own business and it is a sustainable idea they have access to funding, according to Cranfield. "We don't discriminate against somebody's age, somebody's colour, nationality, religion, creed, gender, what business they want to get into, albeit it has to be legal," he says. "We don't take security of any description and we don't check the credit bureau because without being too flippant about it, our judgment is very good and we are very experienced at what we do. "If somebody was looking for a loan from us and we were to check the credit bureau and let's say there was a black mark against the individual a year ago or two years ago, maybe they missed a mortgage payment or two or a couple of car loans repayments, but they might have been out of work or they might have been going through a bad time but why should that affect them now?" Despite dealing with individuals who usually do not have a known financial history, First Step takes no collateral and has a very high repayment rate on its portfolio -- in the high 90s, according to Cranfield. He puts that down to the institution's pre-loan assessment process and the on-going support offered to loan recipients through its mentoring programme. While less informal than applying for a bank loan, First Step still requires the filling in of an application form and for the individual to have a business plan. "We look at the individual, we meet the individual, we look at their business plan and we ensure that the individual has ownership of that business plan and that's an important element. "It's not just that they had a business idea and got somebody else to draw up a business plan just for the sake of doing it, but they don't have full comprehension of it, which happens." First Step will also examine where the business is to be located and will make a decision on whether it will work in that area. "A couple of years ago we got an application from a person to open up an internet cafe in a town in the south of Ireland and we did it because it was a good proposition. Then a couple of months later we got another application from somebody else to do exactly the same thing in the same town. "We looked at it and said, yes, it will probably take two. Another couple of months later we got another application from a third person to open up an internet cafe in the same town and we said no. "The third application was probably just as good as the first but in our view, the town couldn't take three internet cafes." A mentoring programme also provides a voluntary mentor for each loan recipient, while loan recipients also have access to business planning advice and networking through the institution's assessment officers. "We are like the creche -- we take the little company and we build it up to a stage and then we hand it over to a bank and away they go," says Cranfield. Frenchman made right connection French national Max de la Loubie has availed of First Step financing not just once, but twice. Five years ago, when the juice bar he was managing was put up for sale, de la Loubie decided to buy it. His bank advised him to approach First Step. Apart from the financing, which at the time had a zero per cent interest rate, he says First Step helped him in other ways. "They helped me to do the business plan which was a big thing for me because I am French and at the time my English was very bad. "They were very patient with me and helped me a lot." When he decided to open a second business, a French restaurant called Chez Max near Dublin Castle, First Step was his first port of call. "I went to first Step again because I had a good experience." Last year, he sold the juice bar to concentrate solely on running Chez Max. That has paid off for de la Loubie who earlier this month won First Step's Entrepreneur of the Year Award. First Step's assistance was crucial in helping him to get into business, he says. "It was start for me. It was a small business, but even for a small business, you need an accountant and a solicitor and staff. It was very good experience for me," he adds. 
