business
{  
    March 25 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/feeling-left-behind-27458052.html }
Continuous improvement should be the philosophy of the day for small business everywhere and this can be achieved by business owners/managers who... Continuous improvement should be the philosophy of the day for small business everywhere and this can be achieved by business owners/managers who have the foresight to acknowledge the importance of training in today’s fast moving competitive business environment. Every owner/manager of a business should be planning for the future and training should be an intrinsic part of this planning activity. Even though our booming economy would seem to indicate eternal wealth for all, the cautious business person will take stock at this time and consider his/her options. One can never be prepared for the unexpected and with this in mind Tipperary North County Enterprise Board is targeting and encouraging all businesses to avail of training supports, which will without doubt reap enormous benefits in the future. The needs of businesses have changed dramatically in such a short period of time that it is almost hard to believe. Issues such as retaining staff, health and safety, e-commerce etc are the common concerns among business people today and that is why the Enterprise Board is taking a proactive approach and encouraging you to avail of its continues support. The Board is planning to run a number of programmes over the next few months. “Computerising Your Accounts & Payroll” is a programme which will enable any business to graduate from a manual system of accounting to having easy access to accounting records and transactions such as VAT returns, to whom you owe money and more importantly who owes you money at the touch of a button. Each participant will receive training on a computerised accounts software package, a payroll package and built into this each business will avail of a number of one to one on-site private consultancy sessions. “Design & Maintain Your Own Web Site” is a new programme currently being promoted by the Board and is one, which has generated a huge amount of interest among users of the information super highway. This programme will be delivered over six weeks (Two evenings per week) and each participating business will learn how to design and maintain a web site specific to their own business requirements. The advantage of this programme is that you will know how to update your site when the need arises and as often as you like. Health and Safety has become an area where businesses must comply or be penalised for ignoring legislation, which can sometimes be a costly price to pay. The programme, “Prepare A Safety Statement for Your Business” entitles each business owner/manager to benefit from a series of workshops and personal one to one on-sites visits and assist with the preparation and implementation of a Safety Statement specific to your business. Staff retention is an increasingly important issue facing all Irish businesses. It is a fact that as well as facing an increasing number of vacancies, business have identified a problems with staff retention. A fifth of businesses have recently reported difficulties in retaining staff, a problem the Irish economy never had foreseen. A recent ESRI study brings into focus the extent of the problem and highlights the need for businesses to take action lessening the impact of staff retention problems. To help you in this regard the Enterprise Board is proposing to run a tailor made programme which looks at recruiting, managing and retaining your valued staff. “Understand Your Accounts” is a programme, which will be delivered over two evenings. It is aimed at the ordinary business person wit minimal experience of reading accounts. On conclusion of this programme each participant will fully understand their accounts presented by their accountant. “The Importance of the Internet” will be a one evening seminar. All these programmes are being run in response to requests from business people. It is planned that all will be completed by Mid June at the latest and most well in advance of that date. Programmes, venues, times etc will depend on demand. If you are interested in any of the above programmes/seminars or would like to know more please contact Peggy or Monica at 067-33086 by Friday, 14th April, 2000. Tipperary North County Enterprise Board, Summerhill, Nenagh, Co. Tipperary. Tel. 067-33086, Fax: 067-33605, Email: tnceb&eircom. net. (See advertisement elsewhere in this newspaper). 
