business
{  
    November 24 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/the-internet-is-big-and-local-firms-are-taking-advantage-27786324.html }
Surfing the internet is not entirely the preserve of the teenage computer nerds nor is it purely a leisurely pursuit of the middle classes. The Internet is big business and small and medium sized businesses in Fingal and throughout the country have realised this too and started to incorporate internet technologies into they way they run their companies. The swift progression of the E-Commerce Bill 2000 through the Houses of the Oireachtas illustrates Ireland’s urgency to drive down the electronic super highway. The Bill is designed to implement the EU Electronic Signatures Directive and some of the EU Electronic Commerce Directive. Once the Bill is passed into law, ‘electronic contracts’, ‘electronic writing’, ‘electronic originals’, and ‘electronic records’ will become legally enforceable. But before Fingal and Irish businesses join the electronic world, the infrastructure for the electronic way of doing business must be in place. Small Irish businesses are eager to take advantage of e-business and Swords businesses are no different. In the recent SME e-business Survey 2000 undertaken by the Chambers of Commerce in Ireland, many small businesses, those with under 250 employees, are already ahead of the e-business game. Over 725 businesses were surveyed with 50 of those respondents from the Swords areas, most of which employed under 50 people. The retail sector was the largest sector surveyed, representing 40 per cent of the total, while the business services sector amounted to 14 per cent, while manufacturing came to 8 per cent. While the overall national trends were similar to the findings among respondents in the Swords area, 18 per cent of the respondents in Swords were in the manufacturing industry compared with 8 per cent of companies interviewed in total. Some of the findings of the survey make for interesting reading and show, not suprisingly, the younger the company the more likely the business is to use computers. While almost half, 46 per cent, of the 652 people interviewed purchased their computers locally on a national level, only 24 per cent of Swords businesses purchased their computers from local suppliers. Nearly seven out of every ten SME’s have internet access. 34 per cent of the companies surveyed across the country have their own website, although the Swords figure alone was slightly lower at 29 per cent. 71 per cent of Swords companies use a standard phone line for internet access too, compared with 69 per cent nationally. Over half of those companies who don’t have a website intend setting one up within the next 12 months, the survey shows. The barriers identified to the establishment of e-business include the lack of security and the lack of skills among staff according to the SME e-business Survey 2000. ‘Communicating with customers/suppliers is much easier via e-mail,’ according to 73% of 652 businesses interviewed. 96 per cent of 542 companies interviewed consider that they will increase their usage of e-business over the next five years. SOME small and medium sized companies around Swords were contacted by the Fingal Independent to establish whether they are utilising the new technologies in their businesses. And the results were surprising - some were indifferent to the emergence of the new technologies, while others were embracing it wholeheartedly. David Lee, sales manager at Des D’Arcy Motors, doesn’t believe that the internet and the new technologies are relevant to their business - selling cars - at the moment. The company will use the technology ‘possibly in the future’, he says. The company has e-mail but they don’t use it in their dealings with their distributors. They don’t use e-mail for communication within the company either, he explains. However, Paul Murphy of the New Rooney Group says that their business couldn’t operate without computer technology. The New Rooney Group has 17 staff and about 15 computers. The computer is used for ‘doing quotations, doing letters, doing everything really’, according to Paul. Their EDI system (electronic database system) is similar to e-mail. They don’t have a website at the minute but when they get their new computer system up and running in the new year, they will be creating a website and will use it for advertising and so on. The new technology is an integral part of the New Rooney Group’s business. ‘It saves time and time is money,’ says Mr Murphy. Tom Keeley of Mains court Electrical took part in the PRISM course, an Internet Business Strategy Training Course run by Swords Chamber of Commerce, and believes that the new computer technologies are important for small businesses. Mainscourt Electrical employs six people. The company’s investment in computers is an ‘ongoing thing,’ according to Mr. Keeley and they currently use computers for point of sale. While they don’t have a website at the moment, they have a domain name and they will be creating a company web page soon. They will create the site ‘on their own’ as a friend of Tom Keeley’s is ‘a computer whizz’. They have e-mail but use it only occasionally as the employees tend to communicate by ‘shouting at each other’, Tom Keeley told the Fingal Independent. Roanna Manson of Enviros Aspinwall uses the net to do research for the environmental services company that she works for. The Swords office of the company employs seven people and they have nine computers. Research is a fundamental part of their business and so access to the worldwide web is invaluable. The company provides educational information on the company’s website - www.enviros.com. ‘The company doesn’t sell to clients through e-commerce,’ says Roanna Manson. However, prospective employees ‘have to be computer-literate’, adds Roanna Manson and e-mail is used both internally and externally. 
