business
{  
    December 24 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/fingal-firms-worried-by-labour-insurance-costs-27774009.html }
RISING labour costs and its impact on competitiveness as well as insurance costs are the areas of great concern for Fingal businesses, according to a new survey.Carried out by Fingal County Council, in association with the Fingal Skills Observatory, some 539 companies responded to the survey, which attempted to find out their views and concerns about staffing, skills, recruit RISING labour costs and its impact on competitiveness as well as insurance costs are the areas of great concern for Fingal businesses, according to a new survey. Carried out by Fingal County Council, in association with the Fingal Skills Observatory, some 539 companies responded to the survey, which attempted to find out their views and concerns about staffing, skills, recruitment, training and other general issues. The survey also found that three quarters of all businesses in Fingal would be increasing staff pay rates next year. Some 41 per cent of businesses in Fingal stated that they couldn’t get access to broadband, while on a geographical basis, the north county area of Fingal had the biggest problem getting access. Employment levels among the respondents was predicted to rise by 2.5 per cent and the most common employee occupations in the county are manual, clerical, sales and service, professional and plant and machine operators. Recruitment was only seen as a difficulty for one third of respondents. However, almost half of those surveyed in the health and social sector were experiencing difficulties in this area. The other most affected areas were hotel, restaurant and public houses and businesses services. Almost half of businesses (49 per cent) highlighted the inability to match salary expectations as the main barrier to recruitment, while competition from other employers (29 per cent) was the other significant factor. The most popular way of retaining staff were the use of regular pay reviews (55 per cent) and fringe benefits (32 per cent). Speaking about the results, Fingal County Manager John Tierney remarked that the response to the survey was exceptional with over a quarter of all businesses returning completed questionnaires ‘Fingal County Council, together with our partners in the Fingal Skills Observatory, carried out a major survey during the Summer of 2004 of two and a half thousand businesses in the county to identify issues and concerns in the areas of Staffing, Training, Skills, Recruitment and Challenges facing Fingal businesses ‘Fingal County Council has a responsibility for ensuring that sustainable economic development and growth in the county continues in a managed, structured and innovative way,’ he stated. Furthermore, he added, the work of the Fingal Skills Observatory was central to Fingal County Council's strategy in meeting this responsibility. ‘The results of the survey make interesting reading. Overall, Fingal business is performing well and has shown resilience in coming through the slowdown in the Irish economy with renewed strength. ‘There are however, some longer-term issues that are apparent which will need action in the months and years ahead. Fingal County Council will work with our partners in the county to address these issues, to ensure that the economic environment remains favourable to continued business development.’ Commenting on the results, Declan Ryan, Fingal County Council's Business Development Executive stated that ‘businesses in the county are optimistic about future expansion and employment creation, with employment levels among existing businesses predicted to rise by 2.5 per cent in 2005’. ‘This is without taking into account new businesses that will locate in the county next year and the extra employment that this will also bring. ‘Fingal business is showing a strong capability in keeping pace with the county's rapidly growing population and is capitalising on the many opportunities that this is bringing. Fingal businesses are also looking outward and beyond the Irish market with nearly one third of businesses surveyed stating that they now also trade overseas.’ However, on a cautionary note, Mr Ryan said although the overall health of Fingal business was good, and the future outlook was positive, there were concerns among some businesses about rising costs, particularly in the areas of labour costs and insurance, and their impact on overall competitiveness. ‘Fingal businesses are following the national trend in this regard. ‘On a more positive note however, it is encouraging from the results that there is an upward trend in the number of new business start-ups, and the number of new businesses that have relocated in the county in recent years. ‘There is strong evidence that the spirit of entrepreneurship in the county is alive and well, and that Fingal is seen as an attractive location to do business, which bodes well for the county's future development and employment creation.’ For a free copy of the full results, contact the Economic Development Department, Fingal County Council, County Hall, Main Street, Swords, Tel: 01-8906205 or by email to declan.ryan@fingalcoco.ie The Fingal Skills Observatory is an initiative which arose from the Strategy for Economic, Social and Cultural Development 2002-2011. It comprises Fingal County Council as lead agency, Fingal Development Board, IDA Ireland, Enterprise Ireland, FAS, Fingal County Enterprise Board, DCU, IT Blanchardstown, Blanchardstown Area Partnership, Co-operation Fingal, Fingal Business Forum, Teagasc, Rural Dublin Leader, VEC and the National Recruitment Federation. 
