business
{  
    December 11 1997 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish-women-who-mean-business-in-the-us-26200771.html }
DOING a one-year course in two busy weeks is not every business-person's idea of a successful visit to the US but for 17 Irish business women north and south of the Border it provided a fresh insight into how their businesses should be run. The group was brought to the Centre for Irish Management at Boston College under the Women's Executive Programme which was funded by the US government as part of its contribution to the Peace Process here. The businesswomen came from Antrim, Cork, Dublin, Derry, Down, Fermanagh, Mayo and Waterford and hold senior management positions here or oversee small businesses. ``The purpose of the interviews was to identify who would benefit most from the programme and the people selected came from all over Ireland, from manufacturing, from services, from senior management and from their own businesses,'' one of the participants, Fran Murrin said. Ms Murrin is managing director of With Taste Banqueting Services in Dublin which employs up to 400 people at any one time, and she is heavily involved with Network - the organisation for Irish women in business - and with the Dublin Chamber of Commerce. She says the two-week course allowed her to look at her business, literally, from a distance and evaluate where the business was going. ``Most people in their own business just concentrate on survival and getting the job done in the early years. You certainly don't get two weeks time out to look at your business even when you are on holiday. This programme was excellent for the business-person who has got through the first phase of survival and is contemplating the next step,'' Ms Murrin says. Each morning for two weeks the participants heard lectures on a variety of topics including information technology, pricing of services, strategic alliances and marketing with a number of real-life case studies being examined. ``The quality of the lecturers was really high. Most were experts and had written books on their subjects and were also business consultants with real experience of putting theory into practice,'' she says. The programme also involved visits to local businesses. Three of the participants learned a lot when they visited a travel agency, a publisher and a designer and developed business links with them. ``The caterer I visited had a large retail section which didn't really apply to my business, but I learned about the application of information technology to the catering business. I came away determined that we would computerise our information system here,'' Ms Murrin said. There were also visits to the homes of self-employed American women and a weekend trip to Washington for more meetings with American business groups. ``I came away surer of the things we were doing right as well as convinced of the need for e-mail and internet in our business,'' Ms Murrin says. 
