business
{  
    April 07 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/enterprise-board-seeks-to-maximise-business-potential-of-north-tipp-27458373.html }
By James Hayden    The massage was loud and clear at the media briefing on North Tipperarys County Enterprise Board annual review for 1999 -...   By James Hayden The massage was loud and clear at the media briefing on North Tipperary’s County Enterprise Board annual review for 1999 - the board is available to aid in any way necessary with the start up of small businesses in North Tipperary . Addressing the attendance Chairman Ger Lewis outlined the board’s involvement not only in business projects but in the provision of skills management courses and training to entrepreneurs in North Tipperary . In his Chairman’s address he outlines how successful 1999 had been for the board “1999 represented another successful year for Tipperary North County Enterprise Board. As will be seen from the report, the Board, since its inception in October 1993 and the expansion of its services in 1995, has become involved in all aspects of enterprise/business development in the county ranging from primary school to secondary school level and from grant assistance through workshops and training to comprehensive management development programmes aimed at updating management skills and providing business expertise. Full details of these activities will be outlined by the CEO. 1999 was the Board’s sixth full year in operation. In these six years, projects approved by the Board, 217; total value of approvals £1.99m.; job potential of the projects approved 498; number of jobs created 540; cost per job £2,904; Total expenditure - grant assistance 1.26m.; Total expenditure - soft supports £.575m.. At the end of December 1999, in excess of 20,000 jobs were created nationally in grant-assisted companies compared to a target of 8,000 included in the Operational Programme. When one bears in mind that most of the jobs for 1999 approvals will come on stream in the year 2000 this 20,000 figure will be far exceeded. As regards the soft supports programme, again a variety of programmes was run during the year and by the year-end the total number of people who had been provided with various forms of training since the introduction of the soft supports programme in mid-1995 was 1,103. Nationally, on the soft supports side it was estimated that 500 participants per annum would be facilitated; again this has been exceeded nationally with the number averaging 2,000 per annum. I consider it of vital importance that both new and existing entrepreneurs avail of these training services. A Promoter’s willingness to avail of advice, support and information may well be the key to success”. The Board continues to work with other enterprise support agencies in the county e.g. Forbairt, Shannon Development, LEADER, FÁS, and Department of Social, Community and Family Affairs. Co-operation with these agencies is seen as vital to the success of promoting and assisting enterprise activity in the county. During the year a number of Directors resigned, and here I would like to pay tribute to those out-going Directors - John McGinley, Ger Darcy and Michael Hough. They all gave very generously of their time and expertise in assisting the Board since its establishment in 1993. John McGinley and the Tipperary (NR) County Council facilitated in a major way the setting up of the Board and a very special thanks to them for their co-operation at the time. Board members and the Evaluation Committee deserve sincere thanks for their voluntary work and the long hours dedicated to the work of the Board. Sincere thanks is also extended to the Chief Executive Officer Peggy Roche and her team of Noel Cleary, Monica Meehan and Fionnuala Gaynor who continue to strive to meet the targets set out in the Board’s Enterprise Action Plan”.  Information Pack The Board’s information pack was updated during the year and includes useful information regarding the types of grant assistance available from the Board in addition to various training programmes and application forms. Also included in the pack is an information sheet on “Researching Your Business Idea”.  The Tipperary Association Awards Scheme The Board nominated four client enterprises which had been supported by the Board for the Tipperary Association Awards Scheme. This particular competition embraces both North & South Tipperary. Roscrea Community & Tourism Leisure Centre Co-operative Society Ltd. received due recognition for their endeavours by being the outright winner of the competition and received a substantial monetary prize. Their work and achievements were acknowledged at a formal prize giving ceremony which was held in Roscrea towards the end of the year. Mr. Michael Smith, TD, Minister for Defence, when presenting prizes, congratulated the company and all prize-winners and participants. Compliments were also paid to the Tipperary Association for their initiative and commitment in sponsoring the Awards. Eighteen businesses availed of the Mentor programme throughout 1999 and six businesses which started the programme in 1998 completed their mentoring sessions during the year. The Board has developed a policy whereby an applicant, if successful in securing a place on this programme, is initially granted five visits by a mentor and if on completion of those five visits satisfactory progress is being made, an additional five visits can be availed of by the applicant if deemed essential. The Board avails of the Enterprise Ireland Mentor Programme.  Internetlink Having introduced in 1998, an initiative for payment of a grant of £100 to any business connecting to the internet, the Board continued the scheme in 1999 when two businesses were subsidised to connect to the Internet. As Internet connection became free, the Board suspended this initiative and gave those applicants who had submitted applications the option of availing of the subsidy for the creation of websites for their businesses.  Craftworkers Showcase, the Crafts Council of Ireland’s international craft, gift and fashion fair affords companies an opportunity to display their products to a worldwide audience. Three businesses were subsidised to share the Enterprise Board stand at Showcase Ireland 1999. These businesses were: Rath-Art - slate mirrors; Madden Ironcraft - wrought-iron craft; Kilshealan Knitwear - knitwear All three had a very successful show, made contacts and secured orders both at a national and international level. As in past years the Board contributed to the cost of the North Tipperary Craft Workers Association Craft Fair which took place in Nenagh in December. This year the Fair was extremely successful and well attended. The Board is delighted to be associated with this initiative and continues to encourage the development of the craft industry in the county. A very successful course for craft workers was run during the year and details are outlined under Measure 4 activities.  Y2K Workshops While Enterprise Ireland was assigned the role of ensuring that businesses were aware of the Y2K problem, in 1999 the Board for its part addressed this issue by organising two workshops/seminars in the county. One seminar was held in Nenagh in March while July saw the second seminar take place in Thurles. The main purpose of these evenings was to provide small business owners/managers with the information required to identify where the issue may affect their business and to set about resolving, containing or minimising its impact. 80 people attended these workshops.  Internet Seminar As the whole area of E-Commerce is becoming one of the most significant drivers of successful business development and national economic development the Board decided to promote this concept to its clients. A seminar entitled ‘The Importance of the Internet to Your Business’ was organised in Nenagh in May 1999. Areas such as Electronic Information Systems and The Internet and its uses were explored. This presentation was followed by a practical demonstration. 105 people attended on the night.  Start Your Own Business Programme Throughout 1999 the Board organised and ran four ‘Start Your Own Business’ programmes - two in Nenagh and two in Thurles. The aim of the programme is to bring to the attention of aspiring entrepreneurs the various aspects and topics of business which they should consider before starting a business. Businesses which were at the start-up stage also found this programme very beneficial. A total of 62 participants availed of this support and received inputs on: Business Planning Financial Control Marketing Market Research Leadership/Time & Self Management  Selling and Supports & Banking These programmes ran over seven weeks. Three programmes were delivered on behalf of the Board by Envision Marketing Consultants, and one programme was delivered by Dantek Management and Training Consultants Ltd.  General The Board is a Company limited by guarantee and is subject to complying with the requirements of the Companies Registration Office. All Board members are required to make a declaration of interest in respect of any project being considered for assistance and any such declaration is noted in the audited accounts. The members of the Evaluation Committee during the year were Con Harrington, Hilary Henry, Pat Horan, John McGinley (resigned August 1999), Breeda Maher, Toms ” Domhnaill, and Bobby O’Dwyer. During the year three Directors resigned, - John McGinley, on his retirement as Co. Manager. He was replaced by Risteard ” Domhnaill, Acting Co. Manager; Ger Darcy and Michael Hough were replaced on the Board by nominees of Tipperary (N.R.) Co. Council, namely Tom Berkery and Mire Hoctor. The Board nominated Ger Lewis, Chairman, to the VEC Adult Education Sub-Committee. The Chairman of the Board participated in the County Strategy Group. The Chief Executive of the Board was nominated by An Tnaiste, Mary Harney, TD, Minister for Enterprise, Trade & Employment, to the North Tipperary Enterprise Initiative Task Force. The terms of reference of the Task Force are ‘to seek to maximise the potential of North Tipperary and press for priority action on job creation in the area’. The Board nominated the Chairman, Ger Lewis, and Chief Executive, Margaret Roche, as Board representatives to the County Development Board. The Board appointed Fionnuala Gaynor to fill a vacancy which occurred at Clerical Officer level. 
