business
{  
    May 26 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/world/tourism-wizards-of-oz-target-business-25916134.html }
Although their tourism industry is smaller than ours, our friends down under have big plans, writes SAMANTHA McCAUGHREN ECONOMIES across the world have dealt with recent shifts in world travel differently and among the strategies used by Australia is a growing emphasis on attracting business travellers. Although cost-cutting has been a feature of business in the past number of years, signs of economic recovery mean that spending levels are becoming more flexible. And at a time when Ireland is still waiting for its first national conference centre, Australia is well-placed to attract massive international conventions and incentive travel, which rewards high performers. Unlike airlines in Ireland and Europe, Australian airline Qantas has been investing heavily in its business class services. Rob Gurney, head of sales and distribution with Qantas, said business travellers coming to Australia need to "hit the ground running" and paying a premium on longer flights makes financial sense. What has happened in the last few years is that business customers expect to get what they pay for. "The business sector is ultra-competitive, not just in terms of price, but also in terms of product," said Mr Gurney. At a time when the airline is driving costs down across the company, it has invested in its Skybed sleeper business class seat, which gives customers 30pc more space. However, more space does not necessarily mean more money for Qantas. While the improved product is more expensive, the price has not been increased proportionally and yields continue to be under pressure. Demand from business customers is strong, said Mr Gurney, but the airline is also finding that the long-haul premium leisure sector is "a rapidly growing market as well", due to an ageing population with increasing wealth and disposable income. Ken Boundy, managing director of the Australian Tourism Commission, said that like the rest of world, the last few years have been very difficult for tourism with Sars badly affecting the country. However, as with Ireland, the past number of months have seen some recovery and cautious optimism is returning. A promised additional government investment of A$30m (?17m) a year for the next four years is also expected to boost recovery. The branding of the country is moving from the "naturally free-spirited" message, to an emphasis on originality, optimism, irreverence, candour and inclusiveness, Mr Boundy said. This should also appeal to business visitors and a new organisation, Events Australia, is being established to support conferences and business meetings. "I think people are starting to realise that the lack of face-to-face meeting is taking its toll on business," he said. Among the major developments in Sydney's business tourism sector has been the establishment of a convention centre. Its facilities have been a major driver in attracting events and exhibitions and it played a key role in the 2000 Olympics. The purpose-built centre opened in 1988 as the centrepiece of Sydney's now landmark Darling Harbour precinct, on the edge of the central business district. Expanded in 1999, the Centre now has more than 30 meeting rooms, including Sydney's largest ballroom, accommodating 1000 guests, a banquet hall and two auditoriums. Ton van Amerongen, ceo of the convention centre, said that the venue can attract international business to the city, regardless of Australia's own economy. "We estimate that direct delegate spending is in the region of $500m (?286m) annually," he said. The growing business tourism has meant that other sectors, such as the hotel industry are changing to meet the needs of business travellers. The Intercontinental Hotel, for example, has developed a new top floor to give business visitors an exclusive Club Lounge facility with views over Sydney Harbour. Four levels of the hotel have now been transformed into Club floors, with facilities such as complimentary meeting rooms and high-speed connectivity, offering premium services to business customers. Areas further afield are also cashing in on business travel, with the Gold Coast investing heavily in its own convention and exhibition centre. The 6,000-seat centre's location beside the coast's world-famous beaches is expected to attract visitors from Asia and it is hoped that the number of business travellers from Europe will also grow. Due to open in June, general manager of the centre, Adrienne Readings, said bookings were already very strong. Hotels in the area such as the Conrad Jupiters are linking in with the centre to provide services to business travellers and recently this hotel has also upgraded executive floors, with high-tech facilities. Even the Versace Palazzo hotel, which is more associated with fashion and fame, is tapping into the business market, providing conferencing facilities. Several leisure outlets also tap into business travel - for example, the aqua centre Seaworld, which houses a new shark enclosure, organises a wide range of corporate events. Ireland enjoys more international tourism than Australia, which brings in about 5m visitors from abroad - 60,000 of which are Irish - compared with Ireland's 6m-plus international visitors. Nevertheless, lessons could certainly be learned from the Australian situation. 
