business
{  
    October 31 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/action-against-litter-in-sligo-27553512.html }
Sligo Chamber of Commerce &amp; Industry in conjunction with Sligo Borough Council, Sligo County Council and with the support of McDonalds have drawn up a Vo... Sligo Chamber of Commerce & Industry in conjunction with Sligo Borough Council, Sligo County Council and with the support of McDonalds have drawn up a ‘Voluntary Code Of Practice’ to form the Eco Business alliance. The overall purpose and aspiration of this initiative is to raise the awareness among the business community and the general public of their responsibility with regard to litter. The commitment from the business community to the code of practice, co-operation from Sligo Borough Council and County Council and of course, the general public is vital in ensuring that Sligo becomes a cleaner County for business, residents and visitors alike. Over the coming weeks, it is hoped that all businesses throughout the town and County will receive a copy of the ECO Business Alliance Code of Practice, which will include a programme for action highlighting what each business is expected to do by way of supporting this county-wide initiative. A brochure including a new mascot has been designed to help promote the ECO Business Alliance in the form of a medieval sword-yielding knight who proclaims the motto of ‘Challenge Waste, Conquer Litter’. The Voluntary Code of Practice on litter elimination is simple: There are three basic principles which are: To encourage the business community to take responsibility for litter resulting from their business. To encourage businesses to conduct more environmentally friendly and sustainable business practices. To provide a mechanism or “partnership” for Sligo Chamber of Commerce, Sligo County Council and Sligo Borough Council to work together with the business community and the general public towards eliminating litter in Sligo. The programme for action which will be circulated to businesses highlights ten simple points that each business is being asked to implement in order to ensure the success of this initiative. Participating window stickers are also being circulated to denote support and participation of the scheme. The success of the “Eco Business Alliance” will be visible by cleaner streets and the aim is to make Sligo a litter-free zone. There will be awards for those who have made the greater effort and progress. At the launch of the alliance, Tom Ford, Chamber President said “the Chamber have for many months being working closely with Fiona Kelly of Sligo Borough Council and Alice O’Rourke of Sligo County Council in putting this code of practice together and I would like to compliment all their hard work. The Chamber are delighted that we are all now finally in a position to unite in tackling this crucial issue within our environment. I wish to say a very special word of thanks to Martin Cramp, Manager of McDonalds, Sligo who have most generously sponsored this initiative. I am confident that with their continued involvement the ECO Business Alliance will be a great success”. In a statement, Mayor of Sligo, Tommie Cummins noted “I am delighted to be associated with this innovative and dynamic eco-business alliance. The problem of litter can only be addressed by the concerted efforts of civic and business interests, and I feel there is great potential for good in the ‘Voluntary code of practice’ drawn up by the alliance. Of course the most critical participant in this anti-litter campaign is the general public, and we are encouraged by the interest shown by various communities in preserving and protecting their environment. Thankfully the tolerance level among the public for litter offenders is very low, and it is our firm objective that Sligo can be promoted as a clean, green county. While this campaign requires an input from all of us, the benefits will be considerable, in that we have a city and county that are clean and pleasant to live in or visit. Sligo is widely regarded for its distinctive scenic attractions – with everyone’s participation we will keep it that way.” Pauric Branley, Caothairleach stated that he is delighted to be associated with this, the first of many anti litter efforts in Sligo Town and County. He went on to say “The Eco Business Alliance is primarily directed at the business community, but this is only the starting point in eradicating the problem of litter. There is a willingness and desire among many sections of our community to lift our County out and away from the problems of litter, graffiti and dereliction. In many ways this project is simply an assurance that the business community will lend their efforts and take on the role as leaders of good environmental practice through their daily business activities. This is the first step on the road to renewing and reviving a commitment to solving such environmental issues as litter. The Local Authorities and Sligo Chamber of Commerce urgently call on Sligo businesses to take up this project wholeheartedly. The problems of our environment lie with us as individuals, but can be conquered by us as a united and committed group”. 
