business
{  
    November 15 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/your-business-women-are-doing-it-for-themselves-26331909.html }
In the traditional world of the family-owned business, in years past, the company truck or van was usually emblazoned with the family name and the usual "& son(s)" on the side. This suggested that many business-owners didn't have any daughters or, more likely, the daughters didn't get a look in when it came to running the business. While unconscious stereotypes and outdated attitudes towards women entrepreneurs are on the wane, the reality is that men are more likely to set up a business than women. In fact, men are 2.5 times more likely to be active as an early- stage entrepreneur than women, according to the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) report for Ireland. One in ten Irish men, and one in twenty-four Irish women, are early-stage entrepreneurs. Only four out of ten women believe that they have the knowledge and skills to start a business, the report found. However, co-author of the GEM report for Ireland, Patricia Fitzsimons, said that the figures should be viewed in a wider context. "The number of women in the adult population that are starting businesses in Ireland is ahead of the EU average, and ahead of the OECD average. The reason it is so stark in Ireland is that the men starting businesses is so high," she says. While women are less active across all age categories, across all income categories, whether they are employed full time or part time, and across all education categories, there is one exception, and it's a crucial one -- women with postgraduate qualifications have the same rate of early-stage entrepreneurial activity as men, which suggests that education is the key. "In the case of women in particular, higher educational attainment is clearly linked with a higher incidence of entrepreneurial engagement," says Fitzsimons. Sheelagh Daly, chief executive of Wicklow County Enterprise Board and chair of the organising committee for the forthcoming National Women's Enterprise Day, says that the increasing number of women in third-level education will lead to a rise in the number of female entrepreneurs. "This is going to change. I think, in 10 years time, you're going to see a different statistic. The whole thing is changing constantly, culturally and educationally -- there are a lot more women now engaging in third- level education. In fact, women are beginning to outstrip men in terms of degrees that are being taken now in the science subjects." Apart from education, there are some measures that can be taken to encourage and support women in enterprise. The County Enterprise Boards have taken practical steps to promote gender equality in all their activities and they have also taken positive actions in supporting women through business networks, events and conferences. Networks are regarded as key to fostering entrepreneurial way of life among women, especially as they provide the access to role models. According to the GEM report, Irish women are less likely to have a recent entrepreneurial role model. "That's why you have found over the years that different bodies are setting up women's networks for women who want to run their own business but are too frightened to do it, to get inspiration from other women who have done it. "There are role models around Ireland and I think when people have a chance to talk to them and see that they are still running their lives as well as their business, it gives them a sense of confidence," says Pamela Fitzmaurice of Blazing Salads Food Company. A network is regarded as a perfect forum to exchange ideas, build confidence, share experiences, learn from others, build up your contact base and create new alliances as well as promote your own business. Access to finance can also be an issue for some budding women entrepreneurs. Women have a lower percentage of their own funds to invest in a new business, according to a new report by Forfas 'Towards Developing an Entrepreneurship Policy'. "Accordingly, their relative requirement for third party funds is greater," it says. Daly agrees that access to finance is an issue in some cases. "For the 35-45 age bracket, women may not have the same asset base against which to look for business loans and they may not have the same credit history with banks. It depends on their circumstances, obviously, but it is a case that it can be more difficult for women to access finance because they don't have collateral." Having not just one, but many, role models was crucial in helping Pamela Fitzmaurice set up and run her own business. "Role models can be big inspirations. My parents had their own businesses so I am used to being around people that had their own businesses from a very young age. "A couple of my cousins, all women, have had their own businesses," says Fitzmaurice who runs the Blazing Salads Food Company. That gave her a head start, she says. "I suppose it has come easier to me," she says. "Despite the fact that running your own business is stressful, I would be very confident in taking new roles on within my business." Nevertheless, that does not mean she did not encounter some obstacles along the way. Often in the past she says when people asked for the manager, they were surprised to meet a woman. "So you would have to push yourself a little bit stronger as a woman and also the fact there is still a generation that thinks women are going to go off and have a baby," she says. Women have come to the fore in the business world over the past 20 years and she says this has been helped by a growing range of excellent business opportunities from the IT, recruitment and retail sectors primarily. But she has one piece of advice for any budding entrepreneur. "If you are going to into business half-heartedly, you're not going to make it no matter what gender you are. You really have to be committed and focused to have any realistic chance of success." 
