business
{ Maria Herlihy 
    October 12 2018 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/ird-duhallow-awards-to-highlight-local-businesses-37406994.html }
What has become a firm fixture on the business calendar, the sixth annual IRD Duhallow awards are set to take place again next month.  It is the business community who must be lauded for playing their role in boosting the local economy as they have proven to be huge brand ambassadors for a region which is already rich in culture and music.    IRD Duhallow, in conjunction with The Corkman, will honour and recognise the captains of industry  across six categories.   The awards ceremony will be held in a marquee on the grounds of IRD Duhallow at the James O'Keeffe Institute, Newmarket on Thursday, November 22.   Moreover, what the awards ceremony recognises is the sustainability, creativity and innovation which the businesses in the region showcase, as well as their invaluable contribution to the local economy.  On the night of the awards there is also the coveted Best Overall Business of the Year award.   John Feerick, MD of The Corkman said: "For the sixth year in a row, The Corkman is once again delighted to be the media partner for the IRD Duhallow Business awards.   "We have met so many in the business community over the last number of years, whether they are a start up and going up the ladder of success to firmly established family run companies who continue to strive upwards, and it is testament to the economic spirit that is in the Duhallow region."   Maura Walsh, CEO of IRD Duhallow said: "We are delighted to once again hold the sixth business awards. Without question, the awards absolutely reflect the business acumen, talent and calibre of the people in this region who are proving to be so valuable to the local economy. It is only right that the very people who do so much for Duhallow be recognised."   As the catchment region of IRD Duhallow has been expanded, applications can now be submitted from the Muskerry region.   When all applications have been submitted, it will then be a matter for the judges to view each application on its own merits and the short-listing stage will then be undertaken.   The categories for the awards will consist of:  BEST BUSINESS START UP (confined to businesses which commenced trading on or after January 1, 2013) BEST ESTABLISHED BUSINESS AWARD (again confined to businesses which commenced trading on or after January 1, 2013) BEST WOMAN-LED BUSINESS AWARD (confined to women led businesses that are owned and managed by a female director) CREATIVE INDUSTRY AWARD – this is confined to businesses that demonstrate innovation within the fields of advertising, architecture, the arts and antique market, crafts, design, designer fashion, film and video, interactive leisure software, music performing arts, publishing, software and computer services and radio and television). BEST AGRI-LED BUSINESS AWARD - confined to businesses that are agriculture based – such as any business operating in crop production, (including farming and contract farming), seed supply, agrichemicals, agri-tourism, farm machinery, wholesale and distribution, processing, marketing, and retail sales of agriculture related products. COMMUNITY ENTERPRISE AWARD - confined to businesses that are operating as social enterprises, and were established by community or voluntary groups. Applicants must be a not for profit organisation. Applicants can enter on-line on www.irdduhallow.com or email Louise.Bourke@irdduhallow.com for further details.   The deadline is fast looming and the closing date for entries is Thursday, October 25.  Corkman 
