business
{ Andrea Smith 
    June 28 2014 12:03 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/host-of-irish-companies-are-flourishing-online-30391516.html }
What's not to love about internet shopping? For many of us, hell is faffing around hot, crowded stores. We come home bruised and dejected, having entered into an unseemly tug-of-war with a 20-year-old gym bunny with sharp elbows, over a half-price dress that would definitely transform us into Georgia Salpa. While other people would prefer to touch, model, test, taste, sniff and scrutinise every item they purchase, buying online and having products delivered to the door is the answer for those who find the whole consumer experience a crushing bore. And our numbers are ever-increasing, given the new research predicting that the value of Ireland's internet economy will grow from its current level of €8.4bn a year to an estimated €21.1bn by 2020, with consumer spending making up 60 per cent of this figure. In short, that's a whole lot of people clicking on online shopping screens, while lying on the sofa in a onesie, eating crisps. Also, many online retailers are providing extra entertainment in the form of blogs, videos and celebrity features, which makes the whole online shopping experience even more attractive. The new research, which was carried out by Amarach Consulting on behalf of UPC, found that up to 60 per cent, or €3.5bn of online spending by Irish consumers, goes to sites abroad. It is thus not surprising that Irish businesses are increasingly looking to get a slice of this action. Investing in a 'shop front' business during a recession is a potential risk, says Aisling Holly, who launched her couture children's clothing site, www.meggieboo.com, with her partner Paul Garrett in January 2013. "Setting up Meggie Boo Boutique online allowed us the flexibility to test the market and introduce our range to a wider online audience, without the added pressure of having a shop premises and the large overheads and extra costings that go with it." Using their own personal finance to launch the business, Aisling and Paul clearly got it right as the business was profitable within six months. While they were working on it part-time, Paul recently decided to leave his position in the tailoring industry after 25 years to focus on Meggie Boo full-time. So what is the company's unique selling point? "Most mothers will tell you that their children have a better social diary than they do, and little princesses, just like their mothers, tend not to want to wear the same dress to parties week after week," says Aisling. "After all most little girls are divas! Our typical customer is into fashion, and either loves Victoria Beckham or Kim Kardashian. She wants her daughters to look good and set fashion trends, but at affordable prices. The cost saving on our overheads has been passed on to the customer, and our average dress is priced at €14.99." While they both came from a sales background, Paul's tailoring skills mean he is the creative one, and he sources the suppliers of their designer-inspired couture range of children's party dresses from worldwide territories. Aisling takes charge of website design, and looks at ways to generate business to build the brand. "Creative people tend to find that part of the business boring, and sometimes need a rein to keep them in check to ensure that the business is actually profitable," she says. "As they say, turnover is vanity and profit is sanity, so it's important for me to ensure that the business can sustain and maintain its profitability to allow us to grow." Meggie Boo is promoted through Google AdWords and Facebook, and Aisling says their analytics give you a great insight into your business. Seeing customer behavioural trends can assist with driving and developing the business and brand, which will help Aisling and Paul take their business to the next level. While we tend to think of online businesses in terms of retail, there is a whole world of services out there that are flourishing through the internet. One of the most interesting of these is www.counsellingonline.ie, or Irish Online Counselling & Psychotherapy Service (IOCPS), which was established in 2011 by Donijka Monk and Mary McHugh. In a very modern fashion, clients choose which of the three mediums they would prefer to work through – instant chat, telephone or video call (all via Skype). Many of their clients are struggling Irish emigrants, a proportion of whom have moved out of financial necessity rather than a quest for adventure or change. Some have tried counselling in their new country of residence, but because of language or cultural differences it hasn't worked out for them. IOCPS offers a piece of home, without the baggage that can come from sharing challenges with friends and relations at home. For those running online businesses, flexibility is often seen as the biggest bonus. Donijka and Mary are two single mothers based on Achill Island and in Roscommon, respectively, and they want to work in a way that allows them to be a physical and emotional presence in their children's lives, while being a positive role model by working. Because their clients come from all over the world, this gives them real flexibility. Donijka tends to work early in the morning, before her child awakens, while Mary prefers to work later in the evening. "We previously worked together as volunteers for an online suicide prevention charity, and saw that it was possible to form real and deep relationships with people online and for real work to be done," says Donijka. "Our motto became 'Wherever you are, we are.' We really felt that there was a place for a professionally run, boundaried counselling service that would not replace one-to-one counselling, but would be a stepping stone towards it. It has been a slow burner rather than a dramatic firework, but our client base now includes Ireland, the UK, Korea, Switzerland, Mexico, Australia, Holland, Cambodia and Peru." We all know how demanding it can be commuting to work in traditional workplaces, which is partly what inspired Kildare couple Anita Whyte and Paul Moran to start their beauty business, www.dolledup.ie, in 2011. Wanting to create a lifestyle that didn't include travelling to Dublin every day, they felt there was a gap in the market for a destination beauty site that encompassed all aspects of the area. Their website – Dolledup.ie – retails beauty products, skincare, make-up, fragrances, accessories, tans, bags and gifts, and is carrying 18 different Irish brands. It has a frequently updated, award-winning blog with reviews and articles from well-known contributors, and recently launched a useful online guide to boutiques, designers, spas and salons in different parts of the country. The guide offers salon owners an industry-specific portal to showcase their business. "The advantages to having an online business is that it's open 24/7, and it's less prohibitive as we can offer a wider range of products," says Anita. "We reach a bigger, global audience, and don't have to worry about location. Working with web developers can be challenging, and if you're new to online, you may not understand all of the jargon so some things may get lost in translation. If we were doing it again, we would spend more time engaging with the web developers to avoid costly mistakes and time delays." The UPC report predicts that up to 150,000 new direct and indirect jobs could be created through the Irish internet economy by 2020, and a good example of an online business that is creating employment is weddings website, www.onefabday.com. One Fab Day came about when founders Naoise McNally and Susan Gallagher were brides-to-be who found it hard to find information or suppliers of the kinds of things they were seeking. They went into business with the initial investment of €50 needed to secure their domain name and basic hosting package, and the business has now grown to be profitable and sustains six full-time jobs. There was a natural advantage to going down the digital route, rather than publishing a monthly wedding magazine, as Susan is a software engineer and web developer and Naoise is a digital project manager and online marketer. Their website currently has 250,000 unique visitors each month. "As a digital-first media company, we create and publish original editorial content online, including features, articles and videos," explains Naoise. "Like traditional media businesses, our revenue comes through a combination of consultancy, events and advertising. We're the second-biggest wedding website in Europe, and are currently ranked in the top 10 wedding media sites worldwide, and have been featured on Huffington Post, Buzzfeed and French Vogue." The biggest advantage of running an online business over a traditional business is the immediate access to real-time information and analysis, says Naoise. This gives you an unparalleled view of how your market is changing, so you can move quickly to develop the business to meet the needs of your customer. "The drawback is that there's an intangibility to online businesses, especially service-based ones and online media, so sometimes people don't fully appreciate the value you deliver, or even understand what exactly you do," she says. "We concentrate our marketing efforts in two main areas: developing great engagement with our readership through social media, and in offline events and experiences. If you've got great content, social media is ideal for building a readership, and we now have over 50,000 Facebook fans and 55,000 followers on Pinterest." Sunday Indo Business 
