business
{  
    September 06 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/getting-online-can-have-many-benefits-26316004.html }
Recent research indicates that SMEs have yet to embrace the web. The latest e-business survey from Chambers Ireland showed that many Small and Medium Enterpises (SMEs) are not maximising the potential of internet based services, with just 54pc of businesses surveyed operating their own websites. While the success of companies such as Ryanair is testament to the power of the web, Andrew Lovatt managing director of web design and internet consultancy company Redmoonmedia.com urges SMEs to be cautious and thorough in their approach to getting their companies online. It isn't difficult to get your business on the web, but it does take effort to get it right, he says. "You can have a cheap website made anywhere, but is that any good?" asks Lovatt. "The qualifications of what a site is and what you need are very individual to your company and it requires an analysis of how you are currently doing business. It starts from there. The internet is not a bolt-on extra -- it is integral to the business." The first question you have to ask is -- are you looking for an internet site to deal primarily in a business to business scenario or is it business to consumer? "The answer for business to business can be made by looking at how you currently do business with clients. Are they already using the web? Would you be able to get increased benefit from using internet technology?" And that's not just about having a website, says Lovatt -- it's about using e-mail, e-tendering, e-procurement and converged communications in the business to business sphere. On the consumer side, the benefits to be gained from having a web presence are numerous -- everything from increased sales and promotion in new markets to finding new customers or increased outreach to existing clients. "But business to consumer is a bit tougher," warns Lovatt. "I think the return on investment can be quantified for business to business in a way that is easier than it can be for business to consumer." Much will depend on how well known your brand or business is and how much and what kind of marketing you have done to date. A completely unknown brand will require marketing through a number of different media to help drive traffic to the site, explains Lovatt. "People have this popular misconception if they get a high ranking in Google, they can sit back, it's all done for them and that's erroneous," he says. You will also have to decide what kind of site you want for your business -- a brochure site is a basic presentation of your company, with contact details, standard information about the firm, its business, staff, and some frequently asked questions. Consumer sites are interactive and offer the ability to market and sell online. But Lovatt warns that consumer sites are not cheap or easy to get right and can take several months of trial and error. "You should never go live without proper testing," he says. "There is nothing worse than a bad first impression with your customers." This brings in the issue of costs. A standard brochure site can cost anything from €2,500 to €5,000 but costs can escalate from there for the increased interactivity of consumer sites and much will depend on final specifications. As well as the costs of development and ongoing maintenance costs, there is the time and cost of staff training. "There is a training curve. I think that slowly small businesses are beginning to realise that it involves more than just having a website up. You are actually creating a communication network," says Lovatt. There are also the costs of registering your domain name. According to Register365, a .ie site costs around €26 per annum, while a .com site is €5.95 a year. Caution While that would suggest plumping for the .com site as it's a better and cheaper bet, Lovatt urges caution and says business owners should ask themselves which markets they are targeting. If you are only doing business in Ireland, the .ie site makes more sense in the long run, he says. "That helps to filter out all the unnecessary traffic from abroad which would otherwise waste time," he says. But for small Irish firms that want to trade abroad, having a .com domain name opens up new markets in a cheap and easy way and cuts the cost of sending sales staff to foreign destinations. But Lovatt says for businesses to bear in mind the fact that the internet is virtual and you will need a bricks and mortar base to ensure delivery. "It is easy enough to get everything up on the web and do ordering systems, but fulfilment is the issue." 
