business
{  
    July 23 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/localnotes/saying-it-with-flowers-becomes-fastest-growing-local-business-27448622.html }
The growth in interest in decorative flowers by the expanding community in the area within the past few years, has now developed into a thriving business, on par only with many larger centres of population. The pace, scale and diversity of growth in interest in flowers in the Newport area over the past few years, which has created business opportunities now being fully harnessed, is probably unique for a town of its population. In addition to the bouquets of flowers, wreaths, and flowers for the church or home, some of the wide choice of flowers and plants freely available within the town of Newport include many of the more rare and exotic varieties. Two professional designer florists are now kept extremely busy, coping with the demand from people in the area for flowers and plants in many varieties and styles. The growth in demand has developed into a thriving business for each of them coping with an increasing spend by a community that has become a lot more flower and plant conscious over the past few years. Already well established in the business in the area is Mary Vaughan of Newport Flowers at Clonbonny and recent to the business in Newport is Kimberly Fitzgerald and her husband Laurence who have opened Blue Bells Florists at the new Clonbealy Business Centre, adjacent to the town. Both have confirmed this week that there is a huge interest in flowers from the residents of the area and many of their customers are among the most discerning to be found in any part of the country when it comes to selection of flowers and plants as a present to celebrate a special occasion or to add colour and variety to their homes. The result is that the proprietors of both Blue Bells and Newport Flowers recognise that there is a bright and colourful future to their businesses as the interest in flowers spreads and grows. Florists: While Kimberly and Laurence are new to the business in the area, coming to Newport with two decades of experience in the business, Mary, is a native, who has already established a very successful enterprise since taking up the business. Kimberley has been interested in flowers since she was a teenager and followed up that interest to develop her skills and knowledge when she studied for a Diploma under City and Guild in UK, which she holds. Having spent some time in counties Kerry and Clare, Kimberley and her Dublin born husband came to Newport last Autumn and with their family of three have been settling in to the community life in the area. "We saw Newport as an amazingly developing area which is growing up out of the ground and I felt that I wanted to be part of that now. We "I could see that this place is really going to take off, and talking to the local business people they say that they are quite surprised that it has not happened yet. There is an abundance of opportunity in Newport and we saw one of them and we believe that the Business Centre is it", she added. She said that they did a great deal of research before moving into the area and they saw what was happening and saw the development plan for Newport which was very encouraging and convinced that it was the place to be for the future. Since they arrived they have not been disappointed, finding the community very welcoming and helpful to them in the setting up of their business and getting it off the ground. "Our customers are very welcoming and they have been saying to us that Newport has never had anything like this before and that it was badly needed in the area. They are also seeing us as a family integrating into the community and think it is very important that as business people in the area we are living among the local community", she said. Homes: "I think that people need to see what we can do and what we have to offer. I find that there is increasing demand in the area for design pieces which are being specially commissioned to meet their particular needs for their own houses. "I find that the customers who are coming to me know what they want and they are prepared to have something in flowers or plants specifically designed to suit their particular house and price is not the most important criteria, once they can get exactly what they are looking for", she said. Kimberly remarked that Newport is the hub of the area and business is also coming from the neighbouring areas of Rearcross, Kilcommon, Murroe, Birdhill, Ballinahinch and Killoscully, particularly for weddings in the churches in these areas. One of the most unusual floral requests she ever received was from a gracious woman in Britain who brought a broom stick and asked her to arrange a cluster of roses on the broom stick which she wanted to present to a friend of hers who was a wonderful wife. There has been no such unusual requests since she started business at Newport. Kimberly is part of the Women in Business Network in North Tipperary and a participant in the Start Your Own Business Course in the area found it very helpful. Wedding: Mary Vaughan is a native of the area with a lifelong interest in flowers and gardening with "green fingers" but it took a call from a friend to provide the floral arrangements for her wedding to spark off the business. "After that I was asked to do the flowers for another wedding and the idea took off and I done some courses in flower arranging "The success has probably been due to the fact that I give a lot of attention to detail and use a lot of flowers in my arrangements, because people are looking for quality and value for money and they certainly know when they are getting value and appreciate it", she said. Floral arrangements for weddings are still a big part of her work, and she finds herself arranging flowers in churches from Adare to Puckane on a regular basis with a diary heavily booked to the end of the year. Wreaths for funerals are an increasing part of the growing business for which she finds it is very important to be avail She said that more people are now buying flowers for their homes and hotels provide regular business. She also provides the flowers for the parish church at Newport and of coarse there are the numerous bouquets for presentations to mark specials occasions. "Some people come to me with ideas for what they want and they are looking for flowers made up in a special shape or style and the challenge is to meet their demand, but so far no one has come with a special request that I was not able to supply", she said. Fresh: She finds that the brides of to-day know exactly what they want and often bring samples or the details with them when they are booking flowers. "I often have brides coming with cuttings from some of the magazines and they are looking for a bouquet similar to the one in the magazine which may have been used by some one very famous. They often bring samples of what they want also", she said. When it comes to bouquets for presentations, a lot of people look for advice as to what is the most suitable and just ask for the bouquet to be made that is suitable for the special event, whether it is a retirement or whatever. Mary said that most people are looking for fresh flowers , but she also does a lot of work with dried flowers and silk flowers. "There is a lot more interest being shown by people in flowers and some will even come weekly for flowers for the house - because people are buying a lot more flowers now", she finds. She says that keeping up with the demand for fresh flowers has never been a problem because people have been very generous with offers of supplies from their gardens. "People have been so good to me all around Newport and have given me free access to their gardens to take whatever I want that I could not thank them enough for the assistance which they have given to me over the years", she said.  WATER SUPPLY Officials of North Tipperary County Council are continuing to monitor the water supply at Newport following contamination of the supply which occurred towards the end of last week. Residents were advised not to use the water without first boiling it for at least ten minutes after tests carried out on the supply confirmed contamination. Further tests were being carried out on Tuesday of this week. The loss of the water supply has caused major inconvenience to residents, many of whom have had to try and source water for drinking from sources outside of the town.  DEATH The parish of Newport has lost one of its oldest residents with the death of Patsy Mulcahy, Cork Road, Newport and formerly of Inchadrinagh who died at St Joseph's Hospital, Nenagh following a short illness. The late Mr Mulcahy would have shortly celebrated his 92nd birthday and had enjoyed an active and healthy life up to a couple of weeks before his death. He was a well known and popular member of the local community. He was predeceased by his wife, Mary and his son Noel. There was a large and representative attendance of sympathisers at the removal of his remains from Meehan's Funeral Home, Newport to the Church of the Most Holy Redeemer, Newport and burial which took place at Rockvale Cemetery following Requiem Mass. He is survived by his son, daughters, relatives and friends to whom deepest sympathy is extended in their bereavement.  SOCIAL SERVICES The annual holiday organised by the local Social Services Council for the senior citizens will take place this year from August 31st to September 6th. Those interested in travelling on the holiday should give their name to any member of the council. A day outing for the senior citizens is also being organised and will take place on Sunday July 28th. Details may be had from any member of the Social Services.  BLOOD The Irish Blood Transfusion Service will visit Newport on Thursday of next week, August 1st when they will attend at the Community Centre from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. The service points out that every day patients in hospitals throughout Ireland require blood transfusions, It is necessary for the Blood Transfusion Service to collect 3,000 units of blood every week from the voluntary donors. They point out that less than one in 20 of the community donate blood, but on average more than one in every twenty of the community will need a blood transfusion at some time during their life. They are appealing for a good attendance of donors on their visit to Newport to maintain the supply at the blood bank.  CEMETERY CLEAN UP Owners of graves at Birdhill Cemetery and relatives of those buried at the cemetery are being asked to help with a general clean up of the cemetery taking place on this Thursday evening, July 25th. The organisers are anxious that the cemetery is maintained in a proper state and support of volunteers will make light the work for everyone.  TO KNOCK On Sunday August 4th the 50th Anniversary of the Cashel and Emly Diocesan Pilgrimage to the Shrine of Our Lady at Knock, Co Mayo takes place. As this is a very special occasion for the Archdiocese a special effort is being made to have every parish in the Archdiocese represented on this years pilgrimage. Arrangements are being made for a bus to travel from Ballinahinch-Killoscully with collection points at Ballinahinch, Killoscully and Newport More details can be had from Pakie O'Sullivan, Ballinahinch or Biddy Lynch, Killoscully. 
