business
{  
    August 27 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/anti-litter-effort-pays-off-27546320.html }
THE Eco-Business Alliance is a partnership between the local authorities in Sligo and Sligo Chamber of Commerce and Industry in a combined effort to combat litter in Sligo. This anti-litter initiative was launched in 2002 when a voluntary code of conduct for businesses was drawn up and distributed to every business in Co. Sligo. This code of conduct outlined ten simple steps for businesses to adopt to and address the problem of litter that degrades our environment. This year, a new Eco-Business "Alliance Compliance" Competition was launched. The Eco-Business Alliance Compliance Competition consisted of a door-to-door survey of businesses in Sligo City that focused on the presentation of buildings and the paved area outside. Surveyors assessed the condition of individual premises under the following headings: paintwork, windows, graffiti, posters, upper storey, laneway, weeds, litter and floral displays. The survey was conducted during the month of July and early August. The overall winner of the "Alliance Compliance" Competition 2003 was awarded to Donaghy's Bar at Coach Lane, Lord Edward Street, Sligo. Donaghy's Bar was judged to show best practice under the criteria of the competition and were presented with a cheque for ?500 for their exemplary performance in this competition. Peter John Menswear, Wine Street were runners-up in this competition and were awarded ?250. The following businesses were highly commended for their well maintained shop fronts and litter free pavements outside the shop. 1, Argento, Market Street; 2, Armin Lowe, Grattan Street; 3, Aware, Wine Street; 4, Belfry, Thomas Street; 5, Charles of Anthony, Teeling Street; 6, Cross Sections, Grattan Street; 7, Forget Me Not Florists, Thomas Street; 8, Guinness McGuire, Tobergal Lane; 9, Investment Solutions, Stephen Street; 10, K-OS, Water Lane; 11, La Femme, O'Connell Street; 12, Manhattan, Tobergal Lane; 13, Oates, Conlon, Breheny, JFK Parade; 14, Sligo Crystal, Hyde Bridge; 15, Wehrly's, O'Connell Street. Overall, shop fronts in Sligo City were deemed to be very well presented with good signage and clean windows. However, in a lot of cases the upper storeys of businesses were judged to be in a "moderate" condition and in need of maintenance. Floral displays, where present, were judged to be "excellent" but there were very few businesses that had any floral displays outside their shop front. Businesses performance in the litter category was 'moderate' with small pieces of litter present on the pavement outside at a majority of businesses. Results of individual survey sheets will be posted to each business to outline where they gained or lost points in this competition to assist in improved performance in next year's competition. The Eco-Business is an anti-litter initiative aimed at businesses in Sligo that contains a voluntary code of conduct for businesses to follow in a combined effort to combat litter in Sligo. The aim of the campaign is "To achieve a cleaner environment across Sligo City and County". Senator Marc MacSharry stated: "This is just the beginning in an effort to improve our city streetscape and to help motivate all businesses to go the extra mile in the overall presentation of their business. Throughout the survey we were highly encouraged by the standard throughout the city though there is always room for improvement. We can all learn from the excellent performance of Andy and Orla Donaghy this year's overall winner and of course, Peter John, the runner-up. "We look forward to building the competition over future years and are confident that a little extra effort by each business will greatly enhance the image of Sligo's city centre". Mayor of Sligo, Sean MacManus added: "I would like to congratulate the winners of the eco-business alliance compliance competition 2003. Donaghy's Bar and Peter John are clear examples of what can be achieved when business people take an interest in maintaining the exterior of their properties. Both Donaghy's Bar and Peter John are graphic examples of what can be done with a little thought and effort. In fairness, many businesses throughout the town do maintain the exterior of their premises to a very high standard but there is still room for improvement. I would urge all business owners in Sligo to make a special effort to clean and maintain the outside of their businesses, by doing so they can clearly enhance the ambiance of our city". 
