business
{  
    June 24 2009 08:19 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/lifestyle/helping-to-turn-ideas-into-jobs-for-kerry-27384434.html }
DEMAND has never been as high for the services of the Kerry County Enterprise Board as their part in the struggle to help reignite the small-business sector in Kerry continues. But what exactly can they offer the prospective entrepreneur? Dónal Nolan talks to Assistant CEO of the agency, Victor Sheahan, as he explains just some of the programmes in operation by the KCEB. TASKED with supporting the startup of small businesses that employ up to 10 workers, Kerry County Enterprise Board last year approved grant investment of €542,276 for 47 projects. These projects had the potential to create 47 full-time and 19 part-time jobs and the investment came as a considerable boon for local business at marketentry level. Altogether, just over €1 million was ploughed into infant business in Kerry in these 12 months by the board. 2008, of course, was the year in which the KCEB saw demand increase like never before. As close to 7,000 workers joined the dole queues around the county, the board's role in helping to foster the creation of new employment became increasingly important. The board's remit is simple: Supporting the formation of small businesses in every way possible. Those who see it as a cash cow do no justice to the reach of the organisation. Approving grants is, of course, their primary function but guiding every decision of the board is the practical economic regard for viability. WHO THEY HELP "Priority is given to those businesses that promise to capture a niche in the market and create sustainable jobs," Kerry County Enterprise Board Assistant CEO Victor Sheahan explains. "Manufacturing is the ideal sector from our point of view, and that would include companies in everything from food production to craft/gift production to internet-based business." The KCEB regards manufacturers, with a niche market, as being the most likely to create and keep jobs. Crucially, they are not likely to attract employees of existing business. "We have to be very conscious of 'displacement', as it's termed. Not only do we have to be conscious of helping to create new jobs, but of making sure new businesses don't take existing employment from elsewhere," Mr Sheahan said. Bakeries, local services, fashion/design, joineries, energy raters, child play facilities, magazines and publications, recording studios, seamstress and printers are cited as businesses of lower priority, as some competition already exists in the Kerry market. "That's not to say of course that they won't be considered. They will, but very much on their own merits." Many sectors are completely excluded from the board's reach. Anyone approaching the board for help in setting up a clothes shop, for instance, cannot be considered as the retail sector is among those excluded. "There is too much competition and too great a risk of displacement with so many in the workforce employed in this sector already." Tourism services, professional services, driving instructors, agriculture, stone quarrying, artists and photographers, fitness trainers, beauticians, alternative medicine, musicians, writers, restaurants and bars, non-profit organisations and golf clubs are similarly excluded from the remit. "In many cases these businesses are supported by other State agencies as with the agriculture and tourism sectors so it's not a question all are without support," Mr Sheahan said. HOW THEY HELP IN helping a business to take off and thrive, it's not simply the case that the KCEB hands over a ball of money and a good luck card. They operate a range of courses and supports to ensure that grant-aid is not poured into a vacuum. Broadly, grants of three kinds are made — capital grants (for buying equipment); direct employment grants of up to €7,500 for each new staff member and feasibility grants (for examining the potential of prototypes/patents with a view to developing them). Grant applications are first discussed with either Victor Sheahan, Business Advisor Fiona Leahy or CEO Tomás Hayes who help and advise in the filling out of the form. Following that, approval is assessed by the independent evaluation committee, comprised of experts from business and other State agencies. "They will look at whether they feel it's a viable business that will provide value for money in terms of job creation and so on. Each brings a different perspective. For instance the banker on the committee might ask themselves if they would consider lending money to the applicant and so on." The committee then make a recommendation and, if successful, the applicant can expect to get up to 50 per cent of their required funding. KCEB provides a mentoring service the help ensure fledgling businesses aren't left high and dry when they run into the inevitable obstacles. "We run a mentoring service with a panel of experts in various fields. They go in and work with business on a oneto-one basis to troubleshoot and iron out any difficulties as they arise. It's quite amazing what many businesses require from the mentors and if there's something the mentor doesn't know we have access to a national panel. It might be a person with expertise in HR helping out a business to finalise contracts and make sure the employer is protected for instance," Mr Sheahan adds. The KCEB is also tapped in to the Kerry Business Network which has over 100 members in the county. It offers a means for newcomers to get their products out there and establish a reputation. "In Kerry, business tends to be done by word of mouth to a great degree and we recommend new businesses to avail of the network. It works through a number of seminars every year, focusing on specific issues (from doing business on Ebay to company regulation as in this year). The seminars are attended by at least 60 of the network members and newcomers are encouraged to talk about their products and get known. It's a great way to establish vital business relationships," Mr Sheahan said. In relation to their own cost to the taxpayer, Mr Sheahan is measured: "We feel the Kerry County Enterprise Board is very good value for money. Our 14-person board is voluntary, so no payments are made and no expenses given and for all the services we provide we feel the cost is more than rewarded." 
