business
{  
    August 02 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/that-difficult-first-year--26308566.html }
THE extent to which Irish people have ambitions to own and run their own business is startling. The 2005 Global Entrepreneurship Monitor (GEM) report shows that 9.8pc pf the adult population is actively planning or has recently established a business. It goes without saying that the road to starting up your own business is not an easy one, with the first year vital in terms of the success or failure of the firm. Ann Flynn, ceo of Roscommon County Enterprise Board, said the two key elements are the survival and growth of the company. As such, a system of business review needs to be in place in order to develop the company on an ongoing basis. "The survival and growth stages require a reappraisal of the existing business plan, if there is one or if not, the development of a realistic business plan will help identify new markets, product/service opportunities and the financial resources required to grow the business," said Ms Flynn. "It will also identify the operational infrastructure needed to implement the plan, such as staff requirements, new skills required, distribution channels, raw material supplies, technology etc. "While a robust business plan is an essential tool to aid the growth of the business, it may not be sufficient on its own to ensure survival in the future. "In addition to the business planning process, an added dimension is needed by the owner/manager to develop a business survival and growth strategy. "Businesses can experience falling sales/lower profit margins or increased sales/lower profit margins, high staff turnover, poor staff relations, production inefficiencies or the owner/manager may have a hunch that things are not right but can't quite put a finger on what is wrong, or the business might have simply outgrown the management capabilities of the owner. "A business review model enables the owner/manager to look at the internal factors and processes within a small business that are crucial to enable expansion and growth. "The business review can assist a small business to look at how effectively and efficiently the business is currently operating internally and provides for the evolution of a growth strategy for the business in the future. The model can be used at any stage in the life cycle of the business." In addition to keeping an ongoing review of the status of the company, it is vital in the first year to keep watch on a number of areas which, if left alone, can lead to severe difficulty, including: * Cash flow: The by-word of every business adviser, companies are always told to ensure that they have a suitable level of working capital. It is often cited that the most common cause of a failing business is due to running out of cash to keep in operation. * Mentoring: Stay in contact with business mentors and advisers and use the facilities of enterprise boards and other agencies which can assist in the development of the company. * Overheads: Keep costs to a minimum and ensure that the firm is sufficiently staffed in order to avoid unnecessary spending on outsourcing. 
