business
{  
    September 03 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/many-vacancies-remain-on-third-level-courses-26072956.html }
PLENTY of vacancies remain on Third Level courses, many of which would lead to well paid jobs. The vacancies exist right across the board - to apply contact the CAO,  whose most up-to-date list has vacancies on the following courses: DEGREE COURSES American College, Dublin: Inter. Business; Psychology (Honours) & Sociology Institute of Technology, Carlow: International Business with French; International Business with German Dublin Business School: Business Studies; Accountancy and Finance; Marketing; Anthropology; Arts (Literature and Drama); Arts (General); Arts (Psychology) Dundalk Inst. of Technology: Business Studies in Marketing (French); Business Studies in Marketing (German) UCD: Arts (Modular Evening Course) Griffith College, Dublin: Accounting & Finance Portobello College, Dublin: Business Studies. TCD: Biblical and Theological Studies: Germanic Languages; Information and Communications Technology; Computational Chemistry/Computational Physics DIPLOMA/CERTIFICATE American College, Dublin: Humanities. Athlone Institute of Technology: Bus. Studies (Cavan College of Further Studies); Off. Info. Sys. (Cavan Coll.); Off. Info. Sys. (Greendale Coll. of Further Ed.); Front Office Administration; Hotel and Catering Supervision; Plastics Engineering; Mechanical Engineering; Electronic Engineering; Mineral Engineering; Construction Studies; Science (Applied Biology); Professional Accounting; Science (Cell and Molecular Biology); Accounting Technician; Engineering - Mechatronics; Business Studies - Equine Studies; Humanities - Languages and Business Admin; ACCA Accounting Technician Programme. Institute of Technology, Carlow: Engineering - Mechanical; Engineering - Electronic; Construction Studies; Science - Applied Biology or Applied Chemistry; Engineering - Electronics & Computer Eng); Engineering - Electronics & Comm Systems); Business Studies - Wexford Campus; Computing - Applics & Comm Prog (Wexford); Business Studies - Office Info. Sys. (Wexford). Dublin Business School: Business Studies; Business Studies (Accounting) Business Studies (Marketing); Business Studies (Computer Applications); Arts in Cultural Studies Dundalk Institute of Technology: Electronics (Product Development); Electronics; Business Studies (Manag. & Admin. Studies); Business Studies (Marketing with Language); Civil Engineering; Construction Studies; Manufacturing Engineering; Mechanical Engineering; Biology Food Science; Chemistry; Environmental Science; Applied Cultural Studies (French); Computing (Applications and Support - French); Applied Cultural Studies (German). Griffith College, Dublin: Legal Studies; Business Studies; Computing; Interior Architecture Letterkenny Institute of Technology: Aquatic Science; Institute of Accounting Technicians of Ireland; Corais Eolais Oifige; Business Studies/Languages & European Studies; Mechanical Engineering; Science - Applied Biology; Design, Industrial Design; Electronics and Computer Engineering; Environmental Engineering Institute of Technology, Sligo: Business Studies in Marketing with French; Business Studies in Marketing with German; Business Studies in Marketing with Spanish; Art; Engineering in Electronic Product Design; Science in Environmental Protection; Science in Pharmaceutical Science Institute of Technology, Tallaght: Science (Appl Bio/Chem or Instrum. & App. Phy.); Applied Languages; Languages with Heritage Studies; Engineering (Microelectronics & Semi Cond Manu); Engineering (Electro/Mechanical Systems) Tipperary Institute: Bus. Studies - Small & Medium Enter (Thurles); Sustainable Rural Development (Thurles); Computing - Software Development (Thurles); Bus. Studies - Small & Medium Enter. (Clonmel); Computing - Soft ware Development (Clonmel); Computing - Comm & Multimedia (Clonmel). 
