business
{  
    June 07 2011 11:13 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/your-a-z-of-springboard-colleges-26740278.html }
 ATHLONE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Dublin Road, Athlone, Co Westmeath 090 646 8000 ait.ie Course Provided: Certificate in Renewable Heating Systems  CORK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Bishopstown, Co Cork 021 433 5450 opendoor@cit.ie cit.ie Cork Institute of Technology has a long-established tradition in the provision of flexible programmes for the enhancement of employability and workplace-ready skills. These programmes on offer through Springboard have been developed in partnership with local and regional enterprises to offer upskilling and reskilling opportunities to a wide range of learners from levels 6 to 9 on the NFQ. They provide a focused opportunity for learners to broaden or deepen their skills base to meet existing or predicted skills needs. CIT also offers opportunities for those with workplace skills and experience to apply for recognition of their prior learning (RPL). Through RPL, people who have already gained some of the learning can seek to have their learning validated and recognised. Through its leadership of the Education in Employment and Roadmap for Employment-Academic Partnerships projects, CIT has made a significant contribution to the development of engagement and partnership opportunities between higher education and industry. CIT provides a broad range of supports for mature and non-standard learners and is looking forward to answering questions and providing guidance for applicants at the Open Door Session planned for Friday June 10 from 2pm to 7pm.  DIGITAL SKILLS ACADEMY Digital Exchange, The Digital Hub, Crane Street, Dublin 8 01 480 6200 digitalskillsacademy.com Course Provided: WebElevate programme (Professional Development Programme in Digital Media)  DPS EDUCATION & TRAINING LTD Landscape House, Baldonnell Business Park, Baldonnell, Co Dublin 01 466 1700 dpseng.com Course Provided: CPD Certificate in e-(Bio) PharmaCem  DUBLIN BUSINESS SCHOOL 13/14 Aungier Street, Dublin 2 01 417 7500 springboard@dbs.ie dbs.ie Established in 1975, Dublin Business School (DBS) is Ireland's largest independent third-level college. With over 9,000 students, DBS provides a comprehensive range of full-time and part-time undergraduate, postgraduate and professional education programmes in the Schools of Business, Arts and Law. The suite of 13 programmes DBS is offering through Springboard is focused on providing students with career-focused skills that will prepare them to re-enter the workforce. These areas include Business Information Systems & IT, Innovation, International Financial Services, International Business, Enterprise and Sales Management, ICT and Project Management. The programmes have been developed by, and are facilitated by, leading academics and industry professionals, making them highly relevant to currently unemployed participants, providing them with a competitive advantage when seeking re-employment.  DUBLIN CITY UNIVERSITY Dublin 9 01 700 5000 dcu.ie DCU Ryan Academy, 3013 Lake Drive Citywest Business Campus, Dublin 24 01 7006786 ryanacademy.ie See DCU feature.  DUBLIN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 143 Lower Rathmines Road, Dublin 6 01 402 3445 dit.ie/upskill Located in the heart of Dublin city, Dublin Institute of Technology (DIT) has been part of the city's educational landscape for more than a century. Today, DIT is one of the largest higher education institutions in Ireland, providing career-focused, professional education at all levels from apprenticeship through to Masters and Doctoral programmes. DIT is offering over 1,000 places on 40 different programmes through the current Springboard initiative. For qualified applicants there will be free fees for students on a range of Masters, Undergraduate and Continuing Professional Development (CPD) programmes. There is a particular emphasis on programmes with identified skills needs in the areas of Science, Information Technology and Engineering. In keeping with the DIT approach, places are offered at different levels appropriate to the individual's education, experience and skill, providing a genuine opportunity to refocus or change career direction. DIT has a huge commitment to providing opportunities for those seeking to retrain or upskill and in recent years has responded positively to government initiatives in this area. Last year, DIT successfully brought 500 people into its ranks through government-funded Labour Market Activation (LMA) education initiatives. The full range of DIT supports and experience will be available to Springboard students.  DUNDALK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Dublin Road, Dundalk, Co Louth 042 9370200 dkit.ie springboard@dkit.ie Dundalk Institute of Technology was founded in May 1971 and celebrates its 40th birthday this month. It is home to 5,000 full-time and 1,000 part-time students. It is offering 10 courses in Engineering, Science and Computing via the Springboard Initiative. These courses cover a wide range of topics from sustainable energy and technology entrepreneurship to bio-pharma, agri-food and computing. The IT believes these courses will help support Ireland's ongoing efforts to trade and export her way back to sustainable and innovative economic development. Dundalk IT prides itself on providing a unique learning experience. You will learn in small groups with excellent support from lecturers and other learning and administrative support staff. Life in college is not all about study, and incorporates a strong element of personal development. Dundalk IT welcome all Springboard students, who will come from all walks of life, to participate in its many sporting clubs and societies and to share in the social and community life of college.  FINANCIAL SERVICES IRELAND (FSI) Confederation House, 84/86 Lower Baggot Street, Dublin 2 01 605 1500 fsi.ie Course Provided FSI Career Plus  GALWAY-MAYO INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Galway: Dublin Road, Galway 091 753 161 Mayo: Westport Road, Castlebar 094 902 5700 gmit.ie Galway-Mayo Institute of Technology (GMIT) is based at five locations in the west of Ireland, including Dublin Road, Galway, and Westport Road, Castlebar. Because of low staff-to-student ratios, GMIT can offer programmes that focus on active and applied learning. Work placement is also a feature of many of the programmes. Our students and the opportunities we offer them to develop their potential are at the core of our organisation. Our campuses are student-friendly environments with friendly staff, excellent facilities and support services. In 2004, and again in 2007, GMIT was named the Sunday Times Institute of Technology of the Year. This was based on GMIT's strong academic performance, high student satisfaction and enhancement of courses. Nearly two-thirds of Galway-Mayo's degree students achieved a top grade -- better than several universities and among the top performances of all third-level institutes in Ireland.  GRIFFITH COLLEGE DUBLIN South Circular Road, Dublin 8 01 415 0415 gcd.ie Courses Provided Certificate in Computing Science; Higher Diploma in Computing; Special Purpose Award in SME Management  INDEPENDENT COLLEGE DUBLIN 60-63 Dawson Street, Dublin 2 01 672 5058 01 6351120 independentcolleges.ie Independent College Dublin, part of Independent News and Media PLC, was founded in 2007 and is located in the heart of Dublin at 60-63 Dawson Street. The campus has 22 lecture rooms across 28,000 square feet of teaching space. Independent College Dublin is a dynamic, goal-focused, career-orientated third-level institution. The objective of the college is to develop successful and prestigious third-level, lifelong and further education learning programmes which are relevant in today's challenging workplace. It provides real currency for graduates seeking employment. The course on offer through Springboard, Business Research and Enterprise Development, will provide students with an ability to develop enterprise proposals from concept to launch, either individually or within a team-development approach. The course is designed for those who wish to enhance their business and entrepreneurial skills within a practically focused learning environment, with added support through individual tutorial support, performance-review workshops and interactive online learning. For further information visit independentcolleges.ie  INNOPHARMA LABS LTD Synergy Centre, Institute of Technology, Tallaght, Dublin 24 086 856 1338 innopharmalabs.com Course Provided: Upskilling for the Pharmaceutical & Medical Device Industry  INSTITUTE OF ART, DESIGN & TECHNOLOGY Kill Avenue, Dun Laoghaire, Co Dublin 01 239 4971 iadt.ie Dun Laoghaire Institute of Art, Design and Technology (IADT), established within the Institutes of Technology sector in 1997, has 2,200 full-time students and 600 part-time students. IADT has an international reputation in the creative, cultural and digital media sectors and is a valued educational and enterprise partner in Dun Laoghaire Rathdown and the wider Dublin and east-coast region. IADT is offering six courses through Springboard. The one-year Business degree incorporates best practice in entrepreneurship education and is composed of 50pc academic module and 50pc work-based project. The Certificate in Enterprise Development is suitable for graduates interested in establishing their own businesses. The Online Business Trading programme is suitable for those interested in using online business trading skills. The Supplemental Award Certificates will provide students with the skills required to design, implement, and deploy mobile computing applications designed for the iOS or Android operating systems. The Certificate in HCI will give students the ability to identify issues relevant to interaction design and testing, develop solutions and communicate these to clients.  INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION: Whitaker School of Government and Management 57-61 Lansdowne Road, Dublin 4 01 240 3600 ipa.ie The Institute of Public Administration (IPA), a recognised college of University College Dublin, provides part-time undergraduate and postgraduate courses in management and business studies to students throughout Ireland. The course on offer through Springboard -- the MSc in Business and Management -- will provide a graduate-level understanding of subjects at the heart of business life. It aims to equip students with the knowledge and skills required in a diverse range of employments, whether at operational or managerial level. A two-year, part-time course, the MSc is delivered through blended learning, so students can study at a time and place of their choosing. They will receive course materials and all the essential textbooks. They will also attend several weekend seminars at the IPA campus in Dublin over the course of the academic year. The MSc in Business and Management is a Level 9 qualification on the 10-point National Framework of Qualifications. In the first year, students take six subjects. In the second year, students can specialise in either Human Resource Management or Finance. The second year also involves the preparation of a minor dissertation.  INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY BLANCHARDSTOWN Blanchardstown Road North, Dublin 15 01 855 1530 itb.ie The Institute of Technology Blanchardstown (ITB) was founded in 1999 and is now home to almost 3,000 students. Conveniently located off the M50, ITB will provide places on 14 courses as part of Springboard 2011. These courses will provide students with internationally recognised qualifications in the areas of Engineering, Computer Aided Design, Computing and Forensics, Networking and Security, Digital Media, Retrofit, Energy Efficiency, Sustainable Electrical Technology, Languages and Entrepreneurship. Many of the courses are designed to build on existing skills.  INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY CARLOW Kilkenny Road, Co Carlow 059 917 5000 itcarlow.ie Courses Provided BSc in Management (Energy); Certificate in Computer Systems; Certificate in Mechanical Engineering; Hdip in Business (Supply Chain management)  INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY SLIGO Ash Lane, Co Sligo 071 913 7348 itsligo.ie Now in its 40th year, IT Sligo has more than 6,000 students studying a range of courses in the areas of Science, Engineering, Business & Humanities. The institute is recognised as a national leader in online education and all of the 12 courses on offer through the Springboard Initiative are taught online, and therefore are available to people across the country. See itsligo.ie/online for more information.  INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TALLAGHT Tallaght, Dublin 24 01 404 2101 lifelonglearning@ittdublin.ie ittdublin.ie Course Provided Certificate in Bio-Processing and Clean Room Management Minor Award -- NFQ Level 6.  INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TRALEE Clash, Tralee, Co Kerry 066 714 5600 ittralee.ie Courses Provided: Certificate in Applied Biology & Chemistry; Certificate in Business Information Systems; Certificate in Energy Management; Certificate in Engineering Enterprise Management; Certificate in Engineering Technology; Certificate in Environmental Science; Certificate in Social Media & Web Analytics; Certificate in Tourism Entrepreneurship; MSc in Educational Technologies  IRISH INSTITUTE OF PURCHASING AND MATERIALS MANAGEMENT 17 Lower Mount Street, Dublin 2 01 644 9660 iipmm.ie Courses Provided Higher Certificate in Business, Procurement, Level 6, two years; Bachelor of Business (BBus), Procurement and Supply Management, Level 7, one year; Certificate in Purchasing Fundamentals, Level 6, four months; Certificate in Warehousing and Supply, Level 6, four months If you wish to enhance your career in the fast-growing profession of procurement and supply management, the IIPMM courses are a perfect choice. Visit our website iipmm.ie for more details.  IRISH MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE (IMI) Sandyford Road, Dublin 16 01 207 8400  LETTERKENNY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Port Road, Letterkenny, Co Donegal 074 9186122 lyit.ie Letterkenny Institute of Technology (LYIT) is a thriving third-level education institution, with over 3,500 learners, that has been providing higher education in the north-west region since 1971. The college offers programmes in a number of core disciplines including, Business, Tourism, Engineering, Science, Nursing, Computing and Design. Building on this success, and consistent with LYIT's commitment to lifelong learning, and with the assistance of Springboard funding, LYIT is pleased to invite applications for programmes in Pharmacy Technician, Wind Energy Technology, Computing, Financial Services Technologies and Accounting.  LIMERICK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Moylish Park, Limerick Phone: 061 208208 Fax: 061 208209 lit.ie The courses on offer through Springboard will focus on giving students skills to equip them for the workplace in areas such as Building CAD; Healthcare Science; Industrial Electrical Systems; Manufacturing Maintenance Systems; Security, Cryptography & Digital Forensics; and Sustainable Mechanical Engineering.  NATIONAL COLLEGE OF IRELAND Mayor Street, IFSC, Dublin 1 1850 221 721 ncirl.ie National College of Ireland has almost 4,000 students studying from Certificate to Postgraduate level at our IFSC campus. The college has particular expertise in management education and computing and has been recognised as a national centre for cloud computing and web technologies. NCI has over 60 years' experience working with adult learners. All our programmes under Springboard are accredited by HETAC, so they are recognised nationally and internationally. NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR BIOPROCESSING AND RESEARCH (NIBRT)IN CONJUNCTION WITH 
THE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TALLAGHT (ITT DUBLIN) Foster's Avenue, Mount Merrion, Blackrock, Co Dublin 01 2158100 springboard@nibrt.ie nibrt.ie Course Provided Education Programme in Pharmaceutical Technology -- Bioprocessing & Healthcare  NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF IRELAND, GALWAY University Road, Co Galway 091 524411 nuigalway.ie NUI Galway is one of Ireland's foremost centres of academic excellence, with over 15,000 full- and part-time students. It has a long-established reputation of teaching and research excellence. Through Springboard, a range of part-time programmes from foundation level to undergraduate and postgraduate level are offered. Students with an interest in industry-focused programmes should consider courses in the area of Science & Technology, Lean & Quality Systems, Medical Device Science, Environmental Sustainability, Innovation Management and Technology Commercialisation.  OPEN UNIVERSITY +44 (0) 845 300 60 90 open.ac.uk Courses Provided Discovering Mathematics; My Digital Life Oscail: DCU Distance Education Dublin City University, Dublin 9 01 7005481 dcu.ie/oscail Oscail is DCU's Distance Education centre. It was founded in 1982 and provides a range of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes by online distance education. The two courses on offer through Springboard aim to give students a wide range of diploma-/degree-level competencies in information technology and to equip students with a critical appreciation of the application of information technology to a large array of business processes.  SQT TRAINING LTD The Callan Centre, National Technology Park, Limerick 061 339040 sqt.ie Course Provided Lean Six Sigma Green Belt  TIPPERARY INSTITUTE Nenagh Road, Thurles, Co Tipperary 0504 28112/ 28117 tippinst.ie Tipperary Institute is a government-funded Higher Education Institution that delivers full-time and part-time programmes to nearly 1,000 students on its campuses in Thurles and Clonmel. From the start of the 2011-12 academic year, the institute will be merged with Limerick Institute of Technology and will become the Tipperary School of that institute. The Springboard programmes being offered by the institute are focused on the development of usable skills and knowledge. They will provide graduates with the skills necessary for participation in sectors such as the pharmaceutical and food industries.  UNIVERSITY COLLEGE CORK College Road, Co Cork 021 490 3000 ucc.ie Courses Provided Certificate in Creative & Digital Marketing; Certificate in Supply Chain Management  UNIVERSITY COLLEGE DUBLIN ucd.ie/graduatestudies Courses Provided University/Graduate Certificate in Information & Communications Technology (with options for IT graduates and non-IT graduates), Level 8/9; Graduate Certificate in Biopharmaceutical and Pharmachemical Sciences (by Negotiated Learning), Level 9 The University/Graduate Certificate in Information & Communications Technology offers options for IT graduates wishing to fill gaps in their knowledge, and for non-IT graduates wishing to move into the area. Students will work with an academic adviser to devise their own programme to meet their career plans. Modules on offer include highly sought-after Java programming and cloud computing. The Graduate Certificate in Biopharmaceutical and Pharmachemical Sciences is for graduates from Life Science, Chemistry or Engineering who wish to upskill to enhance their opportunities in the growing Biopharmaceutical and Pharmachemical sectors. All Springboard students at UCD will take the 'Future Fit' module which provides training in areas such as career planning, 'soft skills' and job-seeking techniques. Prior to commencing their course, students will participate in a UCD Springboard Induction programme (College Knowledge) to help them prepare for the course and maximise their studies.  UNIVERSITY OF LIMERICK Castletroy, Limerick Tel: 061 202 700 Fax: 061 330 316 ul.ie Courses Provided Certificate in Science & Engineering (Undergraduate NFQ 8 54ECTS), on-campus/ distance learning; Specialist Diploma -- Lean Systems (Postgraduate NFQ 9 36ECTS), online/ distance learning; Specialist Diploma -- Six Sigma (Postgraduate NFQ 9 36ECTS), online/ distance learning; Diploma in Project Management (NFQ 7 60 ECTS) The University of Limerick is an independent, internationally focused university with over 11,600 students and 1,300 staff. It is a young, energetic and enterprising university with a proud record of innovation in education, and excellence in research and scholarship. Particular attention in the design of our Springboard programmes was paid to their relevance in terms of creating 'value-added' employment opportunities for the participants in recognised growth areas of Ireland's smart economy.  WATERFORD INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Cork Road, Co Waterford 051 302 000 wit.ie The six courses on offer through Springboard range from Level 6 to Level 9 on the national framework of qualifications. Waterford Institute of Technology offers courses to over 8,000 full-time and part-time students. These courses will focus on giving students specific skills in areas such as Financial Services, Sustainability and the use of innovative technologies to address industry challenges as well as enhancing participants' generic skills. 
