business
{  
    June 03 2010 09:35 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/businesses-pull-together-to-ensure-a-bright-future-27854050.html }
IT HAS been a rollercoaster of a time of late for trade in Arklow with the recession perhaps biting harder than in many other locations across the county and country. However things have turned a bright and promising corner of late with a strong and vibrant business community dedicated to pulling together and ensuring the town is a hub of variety and good value where shopping is concerned and where services are second to none. Last year will be remembered for being a rollercoaster of a year with the business world being shaken quite badly. All businesses had their fair share of ups and downs with so much uncertainty in the market place and with credit being severely curtailed for many. Slowly but surely the economy is beginning to see signs of improvement and although we are certainly not out of the woods yet, uniting and working together we can help our businesses and town to flourish once again. 2010 so far has proved fruitful to the trade and services sector with businesses striving more than ever to put Arklow back on the map and to create an air of positivity and confidence in the market. The message is loud and clear that Arklow is 'Open for Business'. The Arklow Business Awards were a highlight of the year so far with ten prestigious awards presented on the night to honour the outstanding achievements of the traders. Following on from the huge success of the Arklow Business Awards 2010 the Arklow Chamber of Commerce in conjunction with the Park Restaurant (who won Best Eating Establishment this year) are hosting a Members Social Evening on Tuesday, June 8 at 6p.m. in the Park Restaurant to celebrate business in Arklow and promote the Arklow Business Network. Arklow is a self contained town with a wide range of services available to local consumers to keep business in the town. The extensive range of businesses in the Main Street from fruit and vegetable suppliers to financial services, solicitors, excellent eating establishments are only a walk away from each other which means that everything the keen shopper needs is in one central location. The Arklow Chamber is changing with the times and as business is now being conducted differently from what it was even just one year ago. The membership base is changing too and with new and exciting businesses joining the Chamber are changing with the needs of our members to support and encourage new ways of business. The Arklow Business Network is the ideal way to have all the local business come together on a regular basis and as all business owners are at the moment looking for new ways to increase their existing customer base, the ABN is an extremely beneficial way of doing this and providing traders with the opportunity to network locally. Networking locally can have huge benefits and gives Arklow Chamber an opportunity to build relationships with and learn from the experience of other small and medium business owners. It raises the profile of businesses involved within the local community and provides the opportunity to advertise promotions or special offers to other members. It can help to increase the size of your contact sphere and access to other markets. Above all it is a way to showcase your business and pick up referrals. 
