business
{ Bill Browne 
    June 28 2019 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/the-corkman-helping-to-take-care-of-business-with-new-awards-38258755.html }
An exciting and innovative new countywide awards scheme created by Cork County Council in association with the AIB is set to shine the spotlight on the key movers and shakers that help make Cork such a vibrant place to live in, work in and visit. The inaugural Cork County Business and Tourism Awards has been specifically designed to celebrate excellence in the business and tourism sector across the Rebel County and reward the individuals and companies that have played a pivotal role in its success.   The awards have been divided into three separate geographical regions - North Cork, West Cork and East Cork - with 11 award categories open to entrants from business and tourism organisations within each of the designated areas.  Included within these categories will be awards for 'Best New Business', 'Best Customer Service', 'Most Innovative/Unique Business', 'Best Use of Digital' and 'Best Tourism Experience'.   There will also be a special 'Young Business Person of the Year' award, open to those aged between 18-30.   An overall 'Business of the Year 2019' will be selected from each of the category winners within their respective region. One individual from each of the regions, who has been deemed by judges to have made a significant contribution to local business life, will also be awarded the prestigious title of 'Outstanding Business Ambassador'.   The awards selection process will commence in October at events hosted by the AIB at regional locations, where the shortlisted companies deliver a three-minute pitch in front of a panel of expert judges.   They will also be profiled in a special supplement in their local newspaper, in addition to receiving plenty of online exposure through social media.   The category winners and the overall Business of the Year 2019 winner will be announced at a gala awards ceremony to be held in their respective region in November   The three overall regional winners will then go up against one another for the coveted title of overall 'Cork County Business of the Year' in early 2020. "These awards will recognise local businesses as the bedrock of the North Cork economy and reward them for their consistent commitment to excellence and customer service.   She added that the ultimate aim was to keep the awards evolving in order to keep them relevant, and capture the ever-changing nature of business in north Cork.   "We understand that there is no single classification of what a business is, as it is an ever-changing environment with self-employed and large-scale businesses contributing to the overall story that is North Cork business," she said.  "The awards will essentially provide a welcome annual platform for business people to showcase and share their stories."  Her sentiments were echoed by Cork County Council Chief Executive Tim Lucey, who thanked the AIB, The Corkman, The Southern Star and The East Cork Journal for coming on board with the initiative "Cork is making a significant contribution to our national prosperity, and as part of that, Cork County Council has a very important role in the promotion of economic development for Cork County. We are supporting the strong cohort of enterprises trading across all sectors in Cork, by focusing in particular on our strengths in the tourism and small-business sector," said Mr Lucey.  For full details about the awards, visit www.corkcountybusinessandtourismawards.ie. Corkman 
