business
{ Sharon  Lynch 
    April 24 2008 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/no-fun-in-playing-the-waiting-game-26447416.html }
Better late than never is a phrase a small business does not want to hear, especially when it comes to payment. Research conducted by small and medium-sized business group ISME shows that 29pc of small companies are waiting longer for payment than last year. An EU-wide law came into effect on August 7, 2002 to combat late payment in commercial transactions. This legislation, which applies to all commercial transactions, requires companies to pay their suppliers within 30 days, in the absence of a contract outlining otherwise. However, the association believes that small firms across the country are still being "crucified" by late payments. At present the late payment interest rate is 11pc per annum (that is based on a ECB rate of 4pc as of January 1, 2008, plus the margin of 7pc). That equates to a daily rate of 0.0301pc. But only 26pc of companies are being paid within 30 days, 26pc experience delays of 90 days, with 4pc waiting over 120 days, the association claims. The actual average payment period in Ireland for small businesses is 62 days, it said. Small companies in Connacht and Leinster are collecting faster than the rest of the country at 57 days, with Ulster and Munster the slowest at 66 days, according to the study. ISME chief executive Mark Fielding says the results confirm that legislation introduced to address the issue has clearly failed to deliver for small business. He said that failure to do so should attract the 11pc per annum interest rate penalty. However, almost all small businesses are obliged to avoid this route for fear that it will jeopardise long-standing relationships with big business and state organisations, he said. The Small Business Forum also agrees with ISME on this issue. "Small businesses that supply goods and services to large organisations are often compelled to accept long delays in payment, either because of unreasonable contract terms, or because they are afraid to pursue ontime payment for fear of losing business," it said. "This late payment situation creates a disastrous domino effect in that small companies are only in a position to make payment once they themselves have been paid. SMEs are owed twice as much on average as they themselves owe to larger businesses -- this amounts to an 'interest-free loan' which SMEs are forced to grant to larger businesses," ISME said. The member companies surveyed by the association said they would be in favour of the introduction of a universal mandatory 30-day payment term as the only solution capable of addressing this significant threat to small businesses. "If small business has to pay within 30 days but is forced to give 60, and in some cases 90, days credit to the financially more powerful big business and state organisations, then this acts, not just as a constraint on growth, but as a threat to the very existence of many small businesses and is the 'Achilles heel' of the SME sector. "The latest trends in late payments are putting many profitable smaller businesses at significantly increased risk of suffering cash flow problems, with the threat that many of these companies may not be around next year if the fail to secure payments due," he said. Mr Fielding has called on the Government to introduce mandatory payment period, whereby all companies, regardless of size, would be guaranteed payment within 30 days from the end of month of invoice or delivery, with no exceptions. This, he says, is what was initially intended by the legislation. He is also seeking a mechanism along the lines of the existing small claims court structure to settle disputes as they arise and to prevent further abuse of the small business sector. This would stop what he calls the "abuse of dominance" by large business, allow all businesses to predict their cash flow and introduce a level playing field for all credit transaction. The Government is to undertake an "evidence-based" survey on the issue on late payments over the next few weeks, according to a spokesperson for the Department of Enterprise, Trade and Employment The survey "will determine the extent and scope of late payments in small business and the effect this issue has on their business operations". The department said ISME has been consulted in the preparation of this survey, which will dictate its response to the issue. It said it encourages all small businesses to participate in the survey when it begins. Mimitoys, an Irish online toy store established by husband and wife team Myles and Mimi Doyle in 2004, says late payments has an "enormous" impact on time planning for a small business. "What really upsets my week is chasing people for cheques," Myles Doyle said,. "If I'm foolish enough to let stock out without full payment I could be three months waiting for my money, which really disturbs my week." The average late payment period for Mimitoys, in particular, is around two and a half months to three, according to Mr Doyle. Mimitoys, now has an annual turnover of €500,000 and sells traditional and educational toys on-line. 
