business
{ Arlene Harris 
    July 24 2013 03:05 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/i-bought-the-family-business-and-now-i-could-lose-everything-29443698.html }
A decade ago we were on top of the world. The Celtic Tiger was roaring and Ireland's economic growth was second to none. It seemed that every household contained an entrepreneur and whether it was buying second properties or setting up a small business, the whole country wanted a piece of the action. But we all know what happened next and by 2011 five businesses a day were closing down across the country. 
Close
 Joe Doyle who owns 10 properties / Our nation's story of rags- to-riches and back-to-rags-again made headlines around the world – and as everyone knows, we are still not out of the water. A new RTÉ programme entitled Taking Care of Business takes an in-depth look at some of the ventures which were either conceived or expanded during the infamous 'boom' in our economy and are currently wallowing in massive debt and clinging on to solvency by their fingertips. Financial advisers Sean Dunne and Tommy Murphy have over 50 years of experience between them and during the course of this six-week series, they aim to help the participants come back from the brink of bankruptcy. Jimmy Griffin comes from a long line of bakers – his great-grandfather established the bakery in Galway in 1876 – little did he think that the once-thriving business would now face financial ruin. "My great-grandfather was very enterprising and bought the first semi-automated bread-machine in the west of Ireland," says the 48-year-old. "He had horse-drawn bread-vans and supplied hospitals, poor houses, army barracks and even the British Navy. "He was extremely forward-thinking and his modern 'machine-made' bread was really popular. "My grandfather developed a passion for cakes and bought the premises in Galway's Shop Street, with the view to selling the bread his father made (which he bought from him after helping his father for eight hours every day in the bakery) alongside the cakes he made himself at the premises in the city centre. "My grandfather had a stroke in the early 1970s and my father [Anthony] took over the business with my mother [Eithne]. They continued my grandfather's line of cake-making and me and my brothers [David and Mark] were roped in on a regular basis, particularly on holidays when all our friends were off enjoying themselves. "It was hard work, but it was something we had always done so never really complained." Baking must have been in his blood because after completing his Leaving Cert, Jimmy studied at the National Bakery School in Dublin then after spending time in the US, the lure of the kitchen was too great and he returned home to help his parents run the business. "I had always intended to escape but I had an underlying passion for baking, so after obtaining my diploma and doing a bit of travelling, I returned home and spent the next 26 years working alongside my parents." In 2008 Jimmy bought the business from his parents (his father passed away last year) but crippled with debt, found it impossible to turn a profit. The cost of overheads, bank-loans and keeping a business and family afloat while the country nosedived into recession made things impossible for him and the father-of-three now finds himself facing the possibility of losing everything he has. "In the past, there were no bank loans to pay so the business always made a good profit. But despite sitting down with my accountant and coming up with a solid business-plan designed to turn business around, the recession hit us really hard. "Our customer base went down by 50pc and although we tried other tactics such as evening pizzas and all-day breakfasts, it hasn't been enough. "If I had my time again, I'm tempted to say that I would have run a mile from the family business, but I know that in my heart, I love what I do and I want to continue bringing great, quality, artisan food to the people of my city – I only hope I can keep afloat long enough to do so." Joe Doyle from Dublin left school at 14 and started working as a bricklayer. By the time he was 18, he was in a position to buy his first property and rent it out. Now aged 26, he has 10 properties. But he also owes millions to the bank and is worried for his future. "I borrowed money to buy property because it was 'the right thing to do' in the eyes of my accountants, solicitor and bank manager," he says. "Property was on the up so I had nothing to worry about – or so I thought. "I borrowed over €3 million and now I am in debt but although I am in discussions with the bank, I am in a better place than I was a few years ago. It had got so bad at one point that I didn't want to go to work, because no matter how hard I worked it was only a drop-in-the-ocean compared to the level of debt that I faced, so I felt it was all in vain. "Right now I am going through a massive bump in the road, but giving up is failure and I am still determined to reach financial independence. "From this perspective I am probably further away from my goal than when I first started. But from the point of view of knowledge, experience, friends, contacts and colleagues I have never been stronger or closer to achieving that goal. "No matter what situation you are in, it is you who decides to give up, not the banks, the government nor any other factors. We decide when our fight is over." Nathan McDonnell runs Ballyseedy Home and Garden Centres in Kerry and Cork with his mother Bernie who bought the business from her uncle in 1992. The 33-year-old got involved in 2005 and the family borrowed €4 million to expand the business – they are now struggling to pay back the loan. "I grew up in the business and helped out from a young age," he recalls. "After finishing school, I travelled to Australia and worked there from 2001 to 2005 while my mother, Bernie and sister Naomi continued to grow the business. "When I returned, we decided to develop Ballyseedy and in 2007, with support from the bank, developed a 20,000sq ft glasshouse in Tralee just at the tail-end of the boom. "By August 2008 sales started to fall dramatically and we needed to diversify in order to survive. With a sizeable bank debt and the squeeze on the economy we decided to introduce concessions to help with the changing retail environment. "In 2011 we opened our second store in Fota Retail Park, Cork but we still have a long way to go as the economy is still really challenging. "I class myself as lucky because we have a fine business that continues to see huge support. So many people are suffering with personal debt, bad investments and the potential time-bomb of mortgage arrears. We are no different but with hard work and commitment; I hope we will come out the other side with a solid business." Taking Care of Business begins on RTÉ One tomorrow at 8.30pm Irish Independent 
