business
{ Shane Hickey 
    September 06 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/angel-delight-26363708.html }
When short of funds an investor's money can be manna from heaven WHEN Bernard Berry became involved in the fledgling food company Rib World, he never thought that he would spend as much time on the business as he now allots in his week. Having sold off his interests after a successful business career in the construction industry, however, he met up with the founder of the marinated rib firm, Bo Nielsen, and became the company's business angel. "I met Bo and he had a business plan which was very simple, underfunded and very ambitious. I could see it was underfunded and ambitious but I liked the man, he was very honest and straightforward," said Mr Berry. With an initial seed capital investment of ?150,000 for 30pc of the firm, he grew the share to 50pc after another ?100,000 input. "I didn't realise what a chronic shortage of funds there was. There are many start-ups in Ireland which fail almost exclusively because of underfunding because the mainstream banks are not helpful. They are not the place to get the funding for a start-up," he said. "I have probably 10 times more commitment than I ever thought but I do see the potential for the business." With markets in the EU and the US, Rib World is aiming to break even later this year and turn a profit in the first to second quarter of 2007. For Mr Nielsen, there was initial scepticism at the prospect of taking someone else into the business. "I was a little bit reluctant as often, when you have an idea, you have certain plans about what you want to do with it. It is not as much sharing the ownership, it is sharing the operation," he said. "It has worked out best for the company because I wouldn't have survived without it. Our main problem is availability of cash. "A lot of our main ingredients are expensive and come in large volumes and no company can afford or award credit to us on that extent. "The US investors are silent but Bernard and I have very clear lines of who is doing what and it has been very positive." In September last year a pilot programme was started by the Dublin Business Innovation Centre (DBIC) to match business angels with funds of up to ?2m with high-potential start-up companies. Project manager at the DBIC, John McInerney, said business angels operate in parallel to venture capitalists who generally start to invest from ?700,000 up. "We are looking for ?50,000 to ?200,000 or multiples thereof. A typical start-up investment required today is around ?500,000. If it is a company with growth potential, then Enterprise Ireland would probably come on board for about ?150,000," said Mr McInerney. "That ?500,000 is usually broken down between a basket of three potential investors. One would be the promoters themselves, two would be the business angel or a multiple of business angels and the other would be Enterprise Ireland for matching funding. "Those companies would be by definition ICT, multimedia, software development or games development and would have the potential for growth of 10 plus people within two to three years. "A business angel by definition puts money and time into the business but they want to be bringing something more than cash - it could be marketing, it could be contacts, it could be managerial time. It depends on what the business requires." Michael McCaughey, who has invested in seven start-ups as a business angel, says ensuring that enough money is available to keep the business going in the early stages is a vital factor. "I would look for drive and tenacity because one of the toughest things for people is going out looking for money with financial institutions saying it is a bad idea, it will never make money, leaving them with their tail between their legs," he said. "You have got to be willing to go in there, take the knocks and say 'we'll try somewhere else'." Mr Berry said there could be problems in the bank which lead to the business attempting to proceed with insufficient funding. "Most start-up operations probably put down a realistic business plan but their problem is the lack of funding," he said. "They go into a bank and the bank won't give them anything near what they need, so they go back and rehash it and go in with another presentation which is underfunded because they are desperate to get the support of the bank." Head of the high potential start-up unit at Enterprise Ireland, Kevin Sherry, said that two-thirds of the business which angels invest in are in the software and services area, while an additional one-third are in the industrial sector. "Usually angels would be interested in investing in their area of greatest comfort," he said. "If they come from a business in the food area, then the propensity for those people would be to invest in areas which they know something about, but not exclusively."  Enjoying the fruits of their labour HAVING exhausted all of their contacts to find an investor for their fledgling smoothie company, the team behind innocent sent an email around to everyone they knew. In the subject line, it read: "Does anyone know anyone rich?" which led the three founders of the fruitful company to the first stages to securing their investor. Now claiming to have two-thirds of the ?11m Irish smoothie market and plans in flow to grow operations here further, along with its substantial UK and European operations, innocent has come a long way from the early days. Central to the success for founders Richard Reed, Adam Balon and Jon Wright was the intervention in the early days of Maurice Pinto, who bought 20pc of the business for stg£200,000 (?296,000). However, while Mr Pinto has played an active part in the business, he has always been quick to allow the company to continue on the image that it has created for itself. "He's a great mentor, good for bouncing ideas off, gives helpful advice but trusts us to run things our way and has never over-ruled us," said a company spokesperson this week. Initial attempts to secure funding for the business had proved difficult, with the general consensus that concentrates and preservatives should be used to dilute the pure recipe that innocent uses as its trademark. However, the company, which now has operations in Dublin, London, Holland and France, managed to avoid changing the product to something similar to the rest of the market and which the founders claim is one of their reasons for success, following on from the angel investment of Maurice Pinto. 
