business
{  
    February 13 2008 10:23 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/helping-students-do-the-business-26423109.html }
Two years after he sold his business for €110m, Kerryman Jerry Kennelly has dedicated himself to fostering entrepreneurship among young people in schools and colleges. Working as a freelance photographer in the mid-1990s in Kerry, Jerry Kennelly developed an idea that would make him a fortune. He started Stockbyte, a company that supplied stock photographs in digital form to newspapers and magazines around the world. Having sold the business to Getty Images, a vast American company, the businessman has devoted himself to charitable work. As well as setting up an charity Create Africa, he recently set up a Young Enterpreneurs Programme involving 500 students in Kerry. While much of the focus of the education establishment tends to be on the Leaving Cert points race, Kennelly believes it is crucial to encourage an innovative spirit among young people. He is actively encouraging pupils in second level schools and students in the Tralee Institute of Technology to start their own businesses. And many are taking up his challenge (see panel). In order to help youngsters to develop entrepreneurial acumen, he has called in some of the heaviest hitters in Irish business – including Joe Gantly, former Managing Director of Apple and Oliver Tattan, boss of Vivas Health. The business heads act as mentors to Kerry’s budding young entrepreneurs. As well as being given access to some of the leading figures in Irish business, students taking the programme are given a basic education in business skills, such as sales and marketing. They will submit their own business plans and sit a final exam. “The image of entrepreneurs tends to be of middle-aged men like myself. I want young people, and in particular young women, to take opportunities as well,’’ says Jerry Kennelly. Kenelly’s is one of a number of initiatives across the country aimed at encouraging entrepreneurship among those who are in the education system. Business and education are at times uncomfortable bed fellows. At the recent Boot Camp organised by the Young Entrepreneurs Programme in Tralee, Joe Gantly, former boss of Apple Computers in Europe criticised our education system. He said it did not promote entrepreneurship in young people because it tried to direct them away from taking risks. Jerry Kennelly says being an entrepreneur has only recently become respectable in this country. He says the spirit of innovation is crucial to the survival of our economy. “We are heavily dependent on multinational companies in this country. These companies come here, largely because of our taxation system. We need to develop our own native entrepreneurship, so that we have businesses that can compete in a global economy.’’ Junior Achievement Ireland, a body funded by business to foster an entrepreneurial spirit, is among the other groups developing links between business and schools. It also aims to create a culture of enterprise within the education system, with programmes in schools starting at primary level. It relies on mentors from businesses to work with pupils in schools. “Our aim is to encourage enterprise in all students at school, particularly those in disadvantaged areas,’’ says Junior Achievement executive director, Della Clancy. She adds that a direct knowledge of business can help young people once they get into the workplace. “Our parents’ generation tended to believe that the aim was to have a safe, steady job for life. We are now in an era where people no longer have a safe job for life. So it is crucial to teach people how to use their own initiative.’’ Susan Fitzgerald, 21, is just one of a number of budding young entrepreneurs who recently took part in the Business Boot Camp in Tralee. Together with fellow students from Tralee IT, Bernie McGuire and Mark Ryall, Susan is setting up a business designing outdoor fitness trails. Instead of going on a walking trail or a nature trail, participants get exercise by going on a fitness trail. The trail is known as CALL (Call Activity Leisure Loop) “With growing concern about obesity, we see this as an ideal way to promote health and fitness by exploiting natural terrain.’’ Those who go on the trail are given a set of exercises or activities with the instructions posted along the way. “I have always wanted to start my own business,’’ says Susan, a student in Physical Education. “This is the ideal opportunity. We are already getting interest for this fitness trail from a centre in Donegal. We also want to set one up on the North Campus at Tralee IT. “At the Boot Camp we were given lots of encouragement and advice.’’ A wide variety of proposals were put forward by students from schools and colleges attending the Business Boot Camp. Experienced business heads were on hand to scrutinise the business plans of young hopefuls from schools and colleges. The Boot Camp was part of the Young Entrepreneur Programme in the south west. Among the proposals was a plan for an Online Gothic Store by 16-year-old Sally O’Rourke from Tralee. The website would enable the growing army of Goths to order clothes and CDs. Another innovative proposal for a website, developed by Hugh Nash from Castlemaine, Co Kerry, would assist people to find bands for special occasions such as weddings. Using the website, customers would be able to watch videos of the band and to read reviews of their performances. The spirit of free enterprise is certainly alive and well in CBS High School, Clonmel, Co Tipperary. A group of five students at the school developed a German language pack for use in primary schools. The pack contains colouring books, CD and posters, giving pupils a basic knowledge of the language. The business idea beat off the challenge of 29 other entrants across Europe to win the Junior Achievement European Company of the Year Award. 
