business
{ Sharon  Lynch 
    February 27 2008 04:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/family-business-heroes-hit-sales-of-49bn-in-services-26426370.html }
Family businesses trading in the services sectors generated sales of €49bn in 2005, according to a new report from the Central Statistics Office. The report "Family Business in Ireland -- Services Sectors 2005", is the first of its kind. It revealed that the vast majority of the 38,927 family businesses were small with 98pc employing fewer than 50 people. The total turnover for the services sectors in 2005 was almost €168bn. Family-owned businesses accounted for €49bn or 29pc of this, it said. Almost 88,000 part-time and 166,000 full-time workers were employed in the services sectors by family businesses in the period. The report also showed that half of all family business employees worked in the retail, wholesale and motor trades sectors with almost a quarter working in the hotel and restaurants sector. Mark Fielding, chief executive of ISME, said the figures show the important contribution family businesses are making in Ireland. "People who are born into family businesses tend to be more entrepreneurial, which is good for the Irish economy. They are the unsung heroes of the economy." The report showed that more than half were trading in the more traditional industries, such as the distributive trades or hospitality industries, with only 8pc operating in the more hi-tech sectors such as logistics and communications. It said the sector with the highest productivity for both family and non-family businesses was transport, storage and communication. However, only two out of five businesses had an email address and only one in six had a website, it said. Mr Fielding noted the "shocking" lack of family businesses that have websites. "County enterprise boards should help businesses to start up their own websites," he said. Meanwhile, family businesses accounted for 52pc of all services sector enterprises in the Border, Midlands and Western (BMW) Region and 45pc of those in the Southern and Eastern (SE) Region. Half of all services sector employees worked in family businesses in the BMW region compared to just over a third in the SE region. The report also showed that the majority of family businesses were Irish-owned. Just over 1pc of family businesses covered were foreign owned compared with 20pc of non-family businesses, it said. Foreign owned family businesses employed 2,730 or 2pc of all family business employees. In the case of family businesses, private limited companies were the most common form of ownership, accounting for 45pc of all family businesses. 
