business
{ Sean Gallagher 
    November 01 2014 06:21 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/hard-work-the-key-ingredient-in-sweet-success-of-carleton-cakes-30710296.html }
Growing a successful business is, in many ways, like baking a cake. You start with a recipe in mind, mix the ingredients in the correct proportions and add your own magic... This week I travelled to Cootehill, Co Cavan, to meet Wilfred and Doreen Carleton - the husband-and-wife team behind Carleton Cakes. As winners of five 'Great Taste' awards, they know all too well what it takes to make a great cake. And they know too, how to turn a simple idea into a hugely successful business. For my visit they very kindly transformed their boardroom into a tasting area, as Doreen and Wilfred laid out samples for me to try. For someone who loves cakes - like me - it's heaven. There are plates of caramel squares, fruit slices, tiffin squares, lemon ices, slices of Madeira, iced, with coconut... there's even an assortment of shortbread, oatmeal and chocolate-dipped cookies. And in keeping with the season that's fast approaching, I am presented with a plate of freshly-iced Christmas fruit slices. "We focus on home-baking methods, rather than using industrial baking processes," says a proud Doreen. Theirs is a great success story. The business, like most, started small. But as they now prepare to celebrate their 20th year in business, they have much to be proud about. The company supplies hundreds of stores - SuperValu, Centra, Dunnes, Londis and Spar as well as a host of smaller independents shops throughout Ireland. "About half of everything we make is exported," says Wilfred. "Then 20pc is sold under our own brand and the remainder is sold under private label brands for retailers in Ireland, England, Scotland and Wales." They recently began supplying the food service sector, with Costa Coffee in Ireland and Pret a Manger in the UK among their first customers. "It's a recent development for us and, while it's only in its infancy, we see it as a route which offers great potential for us," says Wilfred. We start our tour in the preparation area. Here the ingredients - flour, eggs, mixed nuts and fruits, sugar and water - are weighed out and mixed together. Much of this is done by hand and demands huge skill and experience. Though Wilfred accepts that increased automation of part of this process is inevitable, the company is committed to using home-based recipes and traditional baking methods, which helps them stand out from other, more large-scale producers. "Our traditional approach definitely has a positive impact on the taste," says Doreen. Once mixed, the ingredients are poured into large baking trays and levelled by hand. They are then loaded onto the shelves of trollies and wheeled directly into the large baking ovens. "We bake them here for the next 35 to 45 minutes, depending on the product," says Doreen. Once cooked, they are removed and put through a cooling tunnel where filtered air is used to cool them quickly so that they can be brought directly to the decoration area. Here, either chocolate or icing of different types and flavours is layered on - again, by hand. In one line of the decorating area, staff are busy pouring melted chocolate over trays of rich caramel squares; nearby another group put lemon icing on freshly-baked Madeira cakes. It's hard to resist the desire to taste it all. Once the toppings have set, they pass on to the cutting areas, where they are cut into slices or squares before being wrapped, labelled and manually packed into boxes for dispatch. But before the process is completed, they must first pass through a metal detector for safety purposes - all part of the stringent regulations that now govern food companies like Carleton's. I stop by the line where their newest product - Florentine squares - are made. Here, large trays of mixed nuts and cranberries have been machine cut. However, their sticky nature means that each miniature square is manually separated and then dipped by hand into trays of melted chocolate so that only the bottom and sides of each square is covered. They are destined for Pret a Manger in the UK - and I can safely say I have never tasted anything more delicious in all my life. What catches my attention most about the nature of the work here in Carleton's is just how many staff are involved and how labour-intensive the entire process is. But Wilfred and Doreen have never been afraid of hard work. Wilfred Carleton grew up on the family farm outside Cootehill. After school, he spent seven years in a variety of office jobs in Monaghan and Belfast before returning home to take over the running of the farm. Doreen, who comes from nearby Ballybay, Co Monaghan, studied home economics after school and then taught for a number of years in the Cavan and Monaghan area before becoming a full-time mother of four children. While he enjoyed the land, Wilfred never felt he was destined to be a full-time farmer. He loved business and always harboured the hope of one day setting up his own enterprise. Once the children reached school-going age, Doreen also began to consider her future and whether or not she might return to teaching. At that point the couple began exploring the notion of a business of their own and began to look around for ideas. "We noticed that there was only one home bakery shop in Cootehill at the time - and with Doreen's experience in baking, we felt it was the perfect opportunity for a bakery business," says Wilfred. So in 1994 the couple secured a small retail premises on the main street in Cootehill and opened a bakery selling bread, cakes and pastries, which they made fresh each day on their premises. By 1999, they had grown the business and their confidence to the point where they felt it was time to open their own dedicated bakery. The following year they sold off the shop to concentrate on their new manufacturing business. "Budgeting the right amount of start-up capital and cash flow is always a challenge for new businesses and we were no different," says Wilfred. In order to get started, the couple invested their savings, raised a loan from the local bank and got support from their local Enterprise Board. The next few years proved a steep learning curve. In their first year of business they lost over €14,000. The second year saw that figure reduced to €6,000. But by year three, they had turned the corner and were making a profit. Like most businesses starting from scratch, they began by servicing their local market and gradually built from there. "We worked on getting our quality and pricing right first and then wrapped a good quality service around it all," says Wilfred. "We were also blessed with good staff and many of them have been with us for a number of years," adds Doreen. However, the recent downturn meant that margins fell dramatically in the business. "While the prices of ingredients shot up, the downturn meant that we were forced to drop our prices at the same time. We managed to retain our turnover levels by working harder than ever, but profits fell through the floor and we ended up producing products at just slightly over cost in order to keep the doors open," says Wilfred. "Thankfully, things began to improve in the last two years." It was around this time that they began to target the food services sector, securing initial contracts with Costa Coffee and Pret a Manger. As they look to the future, Wilfred and Doreen are focused on growing their retail as well as their food services business. In addition, they want to develop exports and have already begun sending small amounts of products to the Middle East for the Christmas market in an effort to test the market there. I ask Wilfred what he thinks helped make the business the success it is today. "That's easy. Quality - derived from our own recipes, traditional home baking methods and good customer service," he says. And what continues to drive the couple now? "That one's a little harder to answer," he says. "The desire to run a business which is highly regarded by our staff, our suppliers and our customers," he says. "While retaining our core values of integrity and fairness," he adds. Wilfred and Doreen Carleton are a wonderfully genuine couple. And they work incredibly hard. They focus on producing quality food based on traditional recipes. In business, they value honesty and integrity. In a small town like Cootehill, they are as important to the community in terms of jobs as any multi-national. As I leave - happily chewing my chocolate-dipped fruit-and-nut squares - it is clear to me that Carleton Cakes are destined for strong future growth both at home and abroad.   BUSINESS MASTERS Company: Carleton Cakes Business: Home Bakery Set up: 1994 Founders: Wilfred and Doreen Carleton Annual turnover: €2.8m Number of employees: 50 - more at peak times Location: Cootehill, Co Cavan   WILFRED AND DOREEN'S ADVICE FOR OTHER BUSINESSES 1. Only use the best ingredients "Success isn't an accident, but more often the result of a mix of key ingredients that include a quality product, pricing for profit, good customer service and strong financial management." 2. You've got to plan carefully "Have a plan. Do proper research before starting your business. That way you stand a chance. Planning lets you predict potential challenges and then identify and build on your key strengths." 3. Get close to your customers "Know your customers and what they are looking for. Stay close to them so you can respond to their needs. Likewise, know your competitors and how you are going to be different from them." Sunday Indo Business 
