business
{  
    August 05 2012 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/tweet-with-our-top-30-and-success-will-follow-26883478.html }
Ireland's Top 30 Business Tweeters are blazing a trail worth following, writes Vincent O'Dowd TWITTER is the social-networking site we are all talking about. It contains a lot of information that is useful to business people -- alongside an awful lot of trivia that isn't. The Sunday Independent has selected its inaugural list of the top 30 Irish business people to follow on Twitter. Our selection by its nature is skewed towards technology entrepreneurs but, over time, as the social network becomes more and more mainstream, we expect this will change. We've tried to pick a good mixture of commentators, brands and agencies to demonstrate the range of ways in which Twitter can be used. Comscore, the digital analytics consultancy, estimates 449,000 Irish people over the age of 15 use it. About 100,000 people use it here every day -- a lot of potential customers for businesses struggling to survive the recession. Many Irish businesses and business leaders remain wary, however. Damian Mulley, head of Mulley Communications, says he expects this to change in the coming year. "Twitter has been seen as having a very celebrity and sports-star-driven content, so businesses haven't seen the benefit of having an account. I think that once the proper business tools are available on Twitter, more businesses will move over." Aidan McLaughlin, head of technology at Fleishman-Hillard, also expects Twitter use by Irish businesses to boom. "Twitter is providing a new model of engagement for businesses. 'What are you doing?' is Twitter's default question, and normally, the answer is trivial. But when the context becomes an emergency or a crisis then the hundreds of answers to that question arriving in real time become important news and a rich source of information for an organisation." Who Sean O'Sullivan Why Dragon's Den star and managing director of investment fund SOSventures International. He made his fortune investing in Apple, Netflix and Guitar Hero. Now he's a backer of Irish companies and campaigner to make it easier for tech engineers to move to Ireland. Twitter name @sosventures Twitter followers 12,947 Who Stephen McIntyre Why This tweeter is hot property. Adam Bain, Twitter's president of global revenue, said that "I couldn't be more excited" after poaching Mr McIntyre from Google earlier this year. He wants to help turn Twitter into a big business -- and do a lot of it in Europe out of its headquarters in Dublin. Twitter Name @stephenpmc Twitter followers 584 Who Orlaith Blaney Why The chief executive of McCann Erickson is a prolific tweeter with interests ranging from advertising industry trends to the Olympics. Always entertaining, Ms Blaney regularly posts links to interesting websites or articles relating to big brands or innovative uses of advertising. Twitter name @orlaithb Twitter followers 1,877 Who Tullow Oil Why The €14.5bn explorer has become pretty active on Twitter. Alongside posting regular updates on its drilling around the world, it also posts pictures of its executives signing new deals with various African leaders. It also uses the social network to update followers with quotes from its chief executive Aidan Heavey and interesting short videos showing work in progress. Twitter name @tullowoilplc Twitter followers 3,462 Who Patrick Collison and his brother, John Collison Why Patrick, the older of the tech genius brothers, is just 23 and describes his interests as books, code, tools, and cities. His younger brother John, 21, is as likely to talk good coffee shops in San Francisco as he is start-ups. Their company Stripe.com, which hopes to take on PayPal, is already worth $100m (€82m). Twitter names @Patrickc & @collision Twitter followers 4,318 & 2,172 Who Bord Bia Why All things food-related in Ireland. Eclectic interests from covering big brands to the Grow It Yourself movement. Shows how a State body should use Twitter with lots of links and pictures. Twitter name @BordBia Twitter followers 8,486 Who Bobby Kerr Why The Dragon's Den star is responsible for your local Insomnia cafe. His Twitter 'feed' is good for silly photographs as well as business tips. Mr Kerr is especially active when his radio show airs on Newstalk every Sunday, when he reveals his views on that day's newspapers as well his guests. Twitter name @bobbykerr Twitter followers 5,408 Who James Whelton Why James is founder of coderdojo, an ever-expanding not-for-profit club to teach kids how to code. Expect tweets on everything to do with coding, developing websites and mobile apps to tips about games. Twitter name @jwhelton Twitter followers 5,108 Who Constantin Gurdgiev Why The vocal economist is best-known for his appearances on Vincent Browne's late-night talk show on TV3. One of the most active users of Twitter, expect lots of discussion of the euro crisis, links to his personal blog and commentary on the economic news of the day. Twitter name @GTCost Twitter followers 15,594 Who Liam Casey Why Dubbed 'Mr China' in the world of tech, Mr Casey got into business in China in 1996 to supply components to computer manufacturers. His company, PCH International, has a turnover of $400m (€329m) a year and followers can expect lots of stuff on China and global business trends. Twitter name @liamcasey Twitter followers 2,342 Who Namawinelake Why Highly opinionated @Namawinelake keeps his or her identity a secret. Expect plenty of analysis on anything Nama or property-related. Never holds back, but open to debate. Twitter name @namawinelake Twitter followers 5,310 Who Simon O'Connor Why Spokesman for our masters in the European Commission on economic and monetary affairs. Useful for keeping up with the Commission's official line with regular links to press releases. Sample tweet: "Reports in the German press about a troika report on Greece, and its alleged contents, are false." Twitter name @ECspokesSimon Followers: 1,202 Who David McWilliams Why The popular economist tweets his blog posts and insights into the economy. Entertaining commentary combines with serious analysis and easy-to-understand 'punk economics'. Twitter name @davidmcw Twitter followers 64,054 Who Paul O'Mahony Why He is a social networking animal for businesses, consistently tweeting advice on how businesses can manage and maximise their social networking platforms. A columnist with the Sunday Independent, he is known to post interesting Instagram photos, which always pique the interest. Twitter name @PaulatSMF Twitter followers 220,273 Who Brenda Kelly Why Senior market strategist with spread-betting firm CMC Trading. Strong on posting quick reactions to breaking financial news both in Dublin and London. The UCD graduate explains developments simply with links to the more complicated stuff. Twitter name @Brenda_Kelly Twitter followers 2,581 Who Intel Ireland Why A lot more personality than the computer chips it is famous for. The account has an interesting level of engagement on many things outside the computer world. Clever and unexpected comment on the Olympics and occasional free giveaways like Beats by Dr Dre Headphones are up for grabs. Twitter name @Intel_IRL Twitter followers 816 Who Diarmaid Mac Mathuna Why Expect plenty of comment on how physics affects the life of every tweeter. As head of client services at Agtel, a company specialising in creative video content for businesses, Mr Mac Mathuna is the cerebral tweeter with a twist. Tweeting about live webcasts of events like the European Science TV & New Media Festival earlier this month. Handy when you want to learn about things like Higgs boson. Twitter name @agtel_diarmaid Twitter followers 353 Who Michael FitzGerald Why The Galway man is an experienced entrepreneur and mentor. The founder of OnePageCRM helps businesses use technology to hold onto their customers. Tweets mainly about small business mixed with personal thoughts. Twitter name @micfitzgerald Twitter followers 1,487 Who Google Dublin & Celine Crawford Why Google has two corners of its mouth. Socially, it is trying to create a buzz around its Google Plus platform, ironically in part by using Twitter. On its @googledublin feed, you can win cinema tickets, go for free beers, interact in real life with googlers. Celine Crawford is the official public relations officer for Google in Dublin, the Donegal lass's Twitter feed will helpfully alert you to new features such as Google maps as well as her own musings. Twitter names @googledublin & @Celinemmc Twitter followers 1,434 & 313 Who Paul Hayes Why Want to know what's going on in the tech industry in Ireland? You could do worse than follow this coffee-sipping ideas man. If there are investment opportunities for Irish start-ups he will sniff them out. Is there a new Irish start-up company that has just come up with an innovative idea for irrigation in East Africa? Mr Hayes will know. Twitter name @paulhayesman Twitter followers 1,744 Who Ray Nolan Why Web entrepreneur, who made megabucks selling Web Reservations International, the online budget accommodation-booking service behind hostelworld.com and hostels.com. Now a serial investor. Twitter name @raynolandotcom Twitter followers 1,073 Who Avoca Why The Pratt family-owned food to homewares group is clever in its use of Twitter. It uses its Twitter feed to tell customers about new products or in-store events in a friendly way. Worth taking ideas from. Twitter name @avocaireland Twitter followers 4,527 Who Megan Greene Why Head of the Western European team at Roubini Global Economics. Ms Greene specialises in covering Europe's troubled periphery and so regularly comments on Ireland. Great analysis of the latest ECB sticking plaster to fix our never-ending crisis. Twitter name @economistmeg Twitter followers 15,598 Who Norah Casey Why An RTE dragon and publisher of Ireland's largest magazine company which includes titles such as Irish Tatler, Woman's Way, Food & Wine and Auto Ireland. Straight talker. Twitter name @norahcasey Twitter followers 4,278 Who Philip O'Sullivan Why The resting stockbroker now studying for an MBA in UCD has been described as the Irish "Zero hedge". He is not exactly -- but he does provide great commentary on Irish and international stocks. Twitter name @pdosullivan Twitter followers 1,238 Who Joe Macken Why The poster boy for using Twitter to build a restaurant business. Very clever use of the social network to bring in the crowds by using give-aways and promotions. Has a series of accounts for his different restaurants from Crackbird to Bear. Twitter name @CrackbirdDUBLIN Twitter followers 15,531 Who The IDA Why All things multinationals. Famously broke the story with a tweet that Twitter was setting up in Dublin. Covers everything from Bollywood films investing here to posting interesting links to blogs on cloud computing. Not as boring as you'd expect. Twitter name @IDAIreland Twitter followers 8,982 Who Social Entrepreneurs Ireland (SEI) Why Tired of following only people interested in making money? Follow SEI to hear the latest about people trying to change the world. A useful way to follow other sites like the philanthropic One Foundation (@The_One_Fdn). Twitter name @SEIreland Twitter followers 2,927 Who Shane Curran Why This 12-year-old launched his Libramatic business this week. He has been coding for six years -- a skill he taught himself. Shane says he wants to employ 500 people in his business and base it in Ireland "if I can". Watch this space. Twitter name @techieshane Twitter followers 1,949 Who Tom Parlon Why The former Progressive Democrats Minister for State has a Twitter profile which says he's director general of the Construction Industry Federation (CIF). But he hasn't tweeted -- even once. Tweet him and ask him to bring back his old party? It worked for Wispa... Twitter name @Tom_Parlon Twitter followers 21 Sunday Indo Business 
