business
{  
    May 07 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/tough-competition-to-reach-shortlist-for-largest-arts-sponsorship-awards-event-25946157.html }
Despite the slowdown in the economy, arts sponsorship continues to represent a significant tool in the marketing armoury, judging by the entries to Ireland's largest Arts Sponsorship Awards event, the Allianz Business2Arts Awards 2003. The organisers announced today the shortlist for the awards with businesses of all shapes and sizes making the final selection. PRESIDENT McAleese will present the Allianz Business2Arts Awards 2003 at a gala dinner on 28th May in the Royal Hospital, Kilmainham. The winners will receive a specially commissioned sculpture entitled 'Collaboration' by leading Irish artist Seamus Gill. Seven of these sculptures, sponsored by Aer Rianta, will be presented to each winning company at this year's Allianz Business2Arts Awards. Speaking at the announcement of the shortlist, Brendan Murphy, Group Chief Executive Officer, Allianz Ireland, said: "These Awards present a unique opportunity for Irish companies. As well as the business benefits accruing from sponsorship of the arts, through the Awards companies also have an opportunity to showcase their excellence in sponsorship management at a national level. "And for all those who enter the Awards provide peer group recognition of that excellence and also provides an arena where all those involved in arts sponsorship can learn and grow from one another." Also speaking was, Brigid Roden, Chief Executive, Business2Arts who said: "Many of the entrants on this year's shortlist are fine examples of companies which have gone one step further in creating a partnership with the arts above and beyond a straight forward financial contribution. Examples include donating equipment, staff involvement, the provision of transport and the services of professional PR agencies. Companies can now see that sponsorship of the arts can play an important role in their commitment to a local community, in other words their Corporate Social Responsibility." Allianz Business2Arts Awards 2003 Shortlist Category A - Best Business/Arts Collaboration by a Small Business * Behaviour & Attitudes and The Graphic Studio Dublin * Cois Sionna Credit Union and Samhlu Street Theatre Group (Limerick) * Eurojet Ireland Ltd. and the Royal Hibernian Academy Category B - Best Business/Arts Collaboration for the First Time * Bank of Scotland (Ireland) Ltd. and The National Concert Hall * Bord na Móna and the Lough Boora Sculpture Symposium (Offaly) * FBD Insurance and The National Gallery of Ireland Category C - Best Business/Arts Sponsorship in Kind * Bord na Móna and the Lough Boora Sculpture Symposium (Offaly) * DHL and Temple Bar Gallery and Studios (Dublin) * Arigna Fuels Ltd., FDK Engineering, Harmac Medical Products, Roscommon Herald, System Label and the Roscommon County Arts Office (Roscommon) * Iona Technologies and the Chester Beatty Library with The Graphic Studio Dublin Category D - Best Business/Arts Collaboration in the Community * Bank of Scotland (Ireland) Ltd. and the National Concert Hall * Cois Sionna Credit Union and Samhlu Street Theatre Group (Limerick) * Esso Ireland Ltd. and The National Gallery of Ireland * Lundbeck (Ireland) Ltd. and The George Moore Society Category E - Best Business/Arts Collaboration Enhancing Corporate Identity * Esso Ireland Ltd. and The National Gallery of Ireland * FBD Insurance and The National Gallery of Ireland * Motor Import Ltd and the Dublin Choral Foundation * Siemens Ltd. and the Feis Ceoil Association Category F - Best Business/Arts Collaboration with Continuity * Esso Ireland Ltd. and The National Gallery of Ireland * Harcourt Developments and Art at Park West Business Park * National Irish Bank and the Galway Arts Festival * Siemens Ltd. and the Feis Ceoil Association Judges' Special Recognition Award This award recognises a company's outstanding contribution to the arts either through its continuous sponsorship of an arts organisation or through its involvement with a number of arts groups. * Esso Ireland Ltd. * National Irish Bank * Toyota Ireland Aer Rianta Business2Arts Special Arts Award A cash prize of ?4,000 will be awarded to one of the following organisations recognising the most effective and imaginative collaboration with a business. * The Graphic Studio Dublin * Kilkenny Arts Festival * Samhlu Street Theatre Group (Limerick) PLEASE NOTE: The companies are listed in alphabetical order in each category. The winners will be presented with specially commissioned sculptures on 28 May at a Gala Banquet in the Royal Hospital Kilmainham, Dublin. Business2Arts Funded by the business community, Business2Arts seeks to promote sponsorship of the arts by advising companies on the strategic benefits of an involvement in the arts, the role arts sponsorship can play in the marketing mix and how to achieve promotional and other benefits from the arts. Business2Arts also provides training in business skills for arts managers and produces various publications to encourage further use by business of arts sponsorship. 
