business
{ John Manning 
    February 09 2019 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/enterprise-week-gets-brexit-ready-37781272.html }
The impact of Brexit will be uppermost in the minds of the local business community as they gather for the annual Fingal Local Enterprise Week just three weeks before the deadline for the UK leaving the EU arrives. As businesses continue to prepare for the full impact of a potential hazardous crash-out Brexit, the Fingal Local Enterprise Office (LEO) is sending a clear message to small businesses to engage immediately to ensure they are adequately prepared for a worst case scenario, hard Brexit. Fingal LEO has launched a series of business events and initiatives to take place during Local Enterprise Week this year, which takes place between March 4 and March 8. At the launch, which took place in the Atrium of County Hall, Swords, last Thursday, the Mayor of Fingal Cllr. Anthony Lavin highlighted the necessity for all small businesses to use the opportunity as a stimulus to seek supports in preparation for a potential hard Brexit. Mayor Lavin said: 'I am pleased to see that Fingal businesses currently trading with the UK have taken the implications of Brexit very seriously and are continuing to do their utmost to prepare for a worst case scenario. 'I would urge all businesses, even those that are not trading directly with the UK, to examine their own situation very closely to ensure that they have identified and are preparing to deal with possible knock-on threats to their business. 'Through our Local Enterprise Office, Fingal County Council is providing advisory services and assistance to our local businesses, to ensure that they are maximising the array of state supports on offer.' This year, Local Enterprise Week features a host of events and activities that are aimed at stimulating business activity locally, in conjunction with various key business support organisations and state agencies, including: Enterprise Ireland, Plato Dublin, Chambers of Commerce, Enterprise Centres, business financing organisations and many more. During Enterprise Week last year LEO Fingal welcomed more than 1,200 business owner/managers to the various business events in Fingal. With the threat of Brexit looming, it is anticipated that there will be an even greater level of interest in the events that will run between 4th and 8th March this year. Speaking at the launch of Local Enterprise Week, the Chief Executive of Fingal County Council, Paul Reid, said: 'In Fingal, we relentlessly strive to be the best at everything we do. With Brexit just around the corner, our businesses face an unprecedented threat. 'It is imperative that we do our best to help them prepare. Local Enterprise Week is an excellent opportunity to network, keep up with developments and find the right supports for your business. 'I am particularly pleased to see so many of our state agencies and business organisations supporting Local Enterprise Week this year.' Head of Local Enterprise Office Fingal, Oisin Geoghegan said: 'Local Enterprise Week is an initiative of the Local Enterprise Offices across Ireland. During the Local Enterprise Week 2019, many small businesses will be exposed to a range of supports they have on offer through LEO Fingal, such as training, mentoring, grants and other practical business supports. The entire programme of events is funded by the Local Enterprise Office. The series of events was designed to appeal to all entrepreneurs, whatever stage of development they are at, pre-start, start-up or growth.' The Local Enterprise Office (LEO) in Fingal is part of a network of 31 Local Enterprise Offices nationwide, located within the Local Authority structure. The Fingal office is one of the largest and most active LEOs in the country. The role of the LEO is to support and provide assistance to existing and potential small business promoters located in Fingal. In addition Fingal LEO aims to foster the development of an enterprise culture. The LEOs operate under a Service Level Agreement with Enterprise Ireland. You can find out more at www.localenterprise.ie/fingal Fingal Independent 
