business
{  
    September 22 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/putting-you-in-control-of-your-business-27829433.html }
Jordan Business Services are delighted to announce the recent opening of their second office in Adelaide Road, Bray. They have also moved to new premises in Wicklow town and are now situated in The Mews, opposite the tennis club.Jordan Business Services provide a wide range of services to businesses in Wicklow and Dublin. Jordan Business Services are delighted to announce the recent opening of their second office in Adelaide Road, Bray. They have also moved to new premises in Wicklow town and are now situated in The Mews, opposite the tennis club. Jordan Business Services provide a wide range of services to businesses in Wicklow and Dublin. Their recent expansion is in response to the increased demand for their services which include professional book-keeping and payroll services; business planning and management consultancy; company secretarial services; agents for SAGE, TAS and LEX software; NUI certified trainers, specialising in one-to-one training on SAGE, TAS and LEX. Set up by managing director, Brenda Jordan, in 1988 as a management consultancy agency in Dublin. The company now has a staff of six between its two offices. 'We have an excellent team dedicated to the client's needs, always willing to go that extra mile,' states Brenda Jordan. 'This dedication is what makes us different from other services.' Jordan Business Services' book-keeping clients are provided with monthly management accounts, which are explored and analysed to determine the health of the company. This area of the business is one of the most crucial, as, according to Brenda, 'many businesses do not have access to information such as whether they are making or losing money or whether they are achieving the correct sales margins. We help the business owner to determine what areas need to be addressed within his/her business and assist in implementing and monitoring any necessary adjustments.' The emphasis on this area of services is upon providing timely information to clients. As Brenda says 'in my opinion, to receive this information after 12 months trading, as many businesses do, is quite often too late to make the necessary adjustments to improve performance. Timely, accurate information gives the business owner a powerful tool with which to run his/her business.' Jordan Business Services are also agents for the very popular SAGE and TAS accounts and payroll packages. More recently they have acquired the agency for the East Coast for an Irish package called LEX, which specialises in solicitor and auctioneer accounts software. 'We are very excited to have successfully acquired our latest agency as our solicitor and auctioneer clients have very specific requirements that are successfully addressed with this package,' enthuses Brenda. As NUI certified trainers, Jordan Business Services also provide one-to-one training on all their packages, tailored to suit their client's needs. This area has proven to be extremely popular in the past because clients get individual attention, geared to meet their exact requirements, at their pace. The team at Jordan Business Services is keen to emphasise that all businesses are catered for to the same level of excellence, regardless of size or range of services required. 'We effectively become the accounts department for many of our clients, dealing with Revenue Commissioners, bank managers, creditors and credit control on their behalf,' says Rebecca Holland, office manager of Jordan Business Services. For your free consultation contact Jordan Business Services at (01) 2764254 (Bray office) or (0404) 25994 (Wicklow office) or www.jordanbusinessservices.ie. 
