business
{ Philip Ryan 
    March 26 2015 01:05 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/fg-plans-to-give-the-self-employed-same-dole-as-paye-staff-31095630.html }
SELF-EMPLOYED workers, family business owners and farmers will be automatically entitled to social welfare payments if they become unemployed, under Fine Gael plans to boost small businesses. The higher rate of USC paid by business owners will also be reduced and brought in line with PAYE workers, under a raft of pro-business measures being examined by the party. A return of tax rebates towards redundancy costs for businesses forced to lay off staff are also on the table in proposals being discussed by a working group established by Taoiseach Enda Kenny. The new measures are part of Fine Gael's campaign to win over owners of small and family businesses ahead of the general election. The party hopes to begin introducing these measures in October's Budget to shore up support before the country goes to the polls. The small business sector was badly hit during the recession and self-employed workers, such as tradesmen, argued they were forced to bear a greater burden of the austerity taxes introduced after the collapse of the economy. Fine Gael's 'Standing Up for Small Business' campaign - which will be launched by the Taoiseach next week - will seek to "level the playing field" between self-employed and PAYE workers. Currently, self-employed workers whose businesses go to the wall are forced to endure an arduous means-tested process to receive social welfare payments. In many cases, business assets and the previous year's earnings effectively disqualify business owners when they apply for State support. In contrast, PAYE workers are entitled to nine months' jobseeker's allowance without being means-tested in the event they lose their job. Fine Gael expects the plan to play out particularly well in rural Ireland. The Fine Gael working group - which is made up of Cork North West TD Aine Collins, Cork East's Tom Barry and Wexford's Liam Twomey - will propose giving the same social welfare entitlements to the self-employed. In Finance Minister Michael Noonan's 'end of austerity' Budget this year, the self-employed - which can include workers such as plumbers and mechanics - were one of the only groups to see tax hikes. The controversial USC tax was marginally reduced for most workers but an additional 11pc rate for self-employed earning more than €100,000 was introduced. The Taoiseach's taskforce wants this rate of USC scraped and replaced with a more equitable tax system that encourages entrepreneurship and introduces an "equalisation of the taxation system". The group also hopes to examine whether the Government can reintroduce a rebate towards redundancy cost incurred by small business owners who are forced to lay off staff. Before the financial crash, the State contributed up to 60pc of these costs but this was abolished by the Coalition. Ms Collins, who is a former accountant, said the State was "punishing" small business owners even though they made a massive contribution to the State. "What we are doing is standing up and protecting small business because they are backbone of the Irish economy. The way the system is operating now is not fair and we need to make it a level playing pitch," Ms Collins told the Irish Independent. "No one sets up in business to become a failure but then they are punished if something happens, but if you lose your job you are entitled to payment. Small businesses accept we can't do it overnight, but this has existed for years and it's wrong. "The old argument was people who are self-employed are creaming money, but that has changed dramatically over the last 20 years. The Revenue is the most effective arm of the State and small businesses live in fear of being audited so they want to do things right," she added. The working group, which was set up in January, spent the past three months meeting members of the small business sector to collect their views on the challenges faced by the industry. It found many people working in the sector were unaware of the State supports available to business. Those interviewed also said they would benefit from management and leadership training. Owners of family-run firms expressed concern about succession planning and passing on their business to the next generation. Entrepreneurship The Taoiseach revealed the party's plan to win support from small and family business owners at a recent Fine Gael parliamentary party meeting. TDs will be given a survey by the working group and asked to engage with small businesses in their constituencies to collect their views. The findings of the surveys will form part of the taskforce's final report. Mr Kenny regularly claims Ireland is the "best small country in the world to do business" and the party's new drive will seek to further encourage more home-grown entrepreneurship. Irish Independent 
