business
{ Fiona McBennett 
    January 24 2015 07:34 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/the-irish-businesses-that-have-been-inspired-by-multinationals-30934444.html }
With Starbucks set to open its first city centre branch in Cork this year, it would appear that the threat from multinationals to local Irish businesses is becoming all the more prevalent.  However, instead of fighting against the big guys, some savvy entrepreneurs have found a gap in global companies' business plans, allowing them to create successful Irish businesses. In 2009, Paul Rossiter was made redundant from his job in the construction industry due to the recession. Faced with the prospect of emigration, he set up his own company - Flatunpack.ie - having been inspired by the launch of the Republic of Ireland's first Ikea store that same year.  The company assembles everything from wardrobes and beds to garden sheds and Rossiter says its helped him get through a difficult time. "The industry I was in had just collapsed and there was very little prospect of me getting a job here. It was either set something up myself or emigrate; they were the choices I had. I have a partner and two young children and I wanted them to grow up here.  "If you are at the right stage in your life, emigration can be a great experience but I am 41 and I have travelled enough. I wanted to make my life here. I knew that Ikea would be opening in Dublin, so it seemed like perfect timing." The media furore surrounding the arrival of the Swedish lifestyle store meant that Rossiter hit the ground running when his business began.   "Everyone was hot on the Ikea story, as it was a big deal at the time. I got a good lot of coverage on the radio and in newspapers as a result, which gave the business a bit of a boost at the beginning.  "It was a little daunting at first but I did a course on starting your own business and that gave me a bit of grounding. I did a few jobs before Ikea opened and that helped me iron out any little kinks, such as making sure I had all the tools I needed in my tool kit before I got busier." While the company remains small, Rossiter says he enjoys the freedom of being his own boss and is thankful that the business has allowed him to remain in Ireland. "Having my own business and doing the nature of work that I do, where the jobs are usually no more than an hour or two long, means that I have a lot a flexibility within my day. I thought at the start that I would be working unusual hours in the evenings and at weekends but it hasn't worked out too bad.  "For me, it's just nice to still be here in Ireland and to have been able to sustain my family over a tough few years. While the business hasn't grown hugely, it has done exactly what I needed it to do." In 1992, Compu b became the country's first Apple Premium Reseller (APR) store. With no official Apple retail premises in the Republic of Ireland, the business has prospered as the Irish face of Apple.  Having previously been an Apple reseller to businesses, the company took a new direction when Apple decided to create a retail model that included APRs and invited the firm to come on board. "When Apple got us involved in the conversation about becoming an APR, it was our first real venture into the retail structure that we have today," says APR country manager, Ger Manley.  "Our original store in Limerick was fitted out in the Apple style in 2008 and we opened a second branch in Cork a year later. It was make or break then, as Cork was the test for a new store in a new location and a chance to see if the new model was going to work. It was very successful and we have literally grown year on year." The company now has seven stores across Ireland and last year, they launched a concession branch in Selfridges, London.  Each location is set up like an Apple store; providing retail, training and support services for Apple technology. Manley says that the company's link with a strong, international brand like Apple ensured that it made it through the recession unscathed.  "The recession was tough for everyone, so I would never be flippant about it but I suppose we were recession-proof at the time, as a lot of the new Apple innovations, like the iPad, had just come out when the recession hit Ireland.  "So even though the recession was very severe, the product was so strong and new, that it just kind of took off. Some of it was also down to luck and good planning, as all our stores are in good locations." Manley says that Apple plays an important part in the running of the business and that the two companies work closely together. "We are very much linked with Apple in respect of the look and the feel of our stores and how we operate. The stores are designed and fitted out by Apple and they do store audits and visits. They also give us service as well, which is a huge part of our business, as we are also an Apple Premium Service Centre. We do about 80pc of all the repairs for Apple in Ireland." According to Manley, the local, Irish-run aspect of the company provides customers with a more personal service. "We are local and on the ground and dealing with the product day to day. There is a relationship with the customer right through from buying the product to the training. We are happy to provide that more personal relationship on behalf of Apple and ourselves." In 2013, Nespresso, one of Nestle's fastest growing brands, lost a lengthy High Court battle covering the patent for the Nespresso coffee system. This opened the doors to competitors wishing to produce and supply alternative, cheaper coffee capsules.  Stefan Hoeckenreiner - owner of All About Pods.ie - opened his online coffee pod business in 2012.  Having come to Ireland from his native Germany in 2003, Hoeckenreiner had a successful career as an architect, until the recession hit.  "There wasn't too much work going on at the time and I thought it would be a good idea to look at other options. My brother-in-law runs an ink cartridge supply business and when a friend of mine got a Nespresso machine, I realised that it was based on the exact same concept of the machine and the consumable.  "I liked that it was the type of business that would operate on finding customers and getting repeat business, so I decided to try and sell compatible coffee capsules and did lots of research on all the ones available. I started with Nespresso compatibles and have broadened out to other machines such as Tassimo and Dolce Gusto. I also sell coffee beans now." Hoeckenreiner continues to work as a freelance architect alongside running the business. As well as supplying coffee products online to householders and businesses, he also supplies Nolan's supermarket in Clontarf. He says that setting up his own company here has been a positive experience. "I've really noticed that people love to support a local business and I get emails from my customers saying that they are happy to be supporting an Irish company. It's much more entrepreneurial here than in Germany and people are really positive."   While being in the coffee industry may not have been part of Hoeckenreiner's initial career plans, he has always had a connection to the product. "Coffee is something that reminds me of my childhood in Germany. My Granny always had coffee at 3pm every day and I would have to grind the coffee beans for her.  "It was always a bit of a routine and my mother still has coffee and cake each day at the same time.  "I like my coffee," he laughs. Sunday Indo Business 
