business
{ Business Q&A 
    February 06 2016 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/business/how-to-get-grants-and-supports-for-your-business-34417475.html }
Q I AM a business start up, What Grants and supports are available for my Business? A The list of organisations that provide grant support might seem overwhelming as there are many different supports for different sectors and industries depending on the type of business. The following enterprise agencies provide excellent grant support for SME's that qualify. YOUR LOCAL ENTERPRISE OFFICE  Wexford Local Enterprise Office provides the following financial supports for business.  - Priming Grant for a business start up less than 18 months trading. This grant may be available for sole traders, partnerships, or Limited companies. Eligible clients may be awarded a Priming Grant within the first eighteen months of setting up the business.  - Business Expansion Grant is available to a business trading for more than 2 years.  - Feasibility/Innovation Grants are available to assist the promoter with researching market demand for product.  The maximum Feasibility /Innovation Grant payable shall be 50% of the investment or €20,000 whichever is the lesser.  - On-line Trading Voucher - Small businesses can now apply for a digital  voucher to assist in helping their business trade online.  Businesses will be able to apply for grants of up to €2,500 for this purpose.  - Mentorship grants are also available to help business owners access a mentor to help develop their business. For more information contact Wexford Local Enterprise office on 053 9196020 or log onto www.localenterprise.ie/Wexford/ ENTERPRISE IRELAND  Enterprise Ireland is responsible for supporting High Potential Start Up Companies.  The grants available to a company who qualifies would be Feasibility Grants, Innovation vouchers worth €5000 to assist in the early stages of research, Mentorship Grants, Competitive start funds for companies that have a well-developed business plan and need to raise investment for their businesses. For established small and medium sized companies in manufacturing and  internationally traded services sector with over 10 employees, there are a number of funding supports available.  This includes: Market Research & Internationalisation grants; Business development grants; Mentorship and consultancy grants; Productivity and business process lean grants to help your business reduce costs and become more competitive; Company expansion packages Funding supports are also available for large companies that employ over 250 employees.  The grants available for companies that meet the criteria are:; Market Research & Internationalisation grants; Research and Development grants; Business Process Lean Plus and Lean Transform Grant. Contact your Enterprise Ireland Advisor to discuss on 01 7272000. WEXFORD LOCAL DEVELOPMENT The primary focus of the grants available is for rural development enterprises that are in start-up and expanding including, tourism activities and diversification into no-agricultural activities. Rates of grant aid available are:;  75% of capital costs to a maximum of €150,000; 75% of training costs to a maximum of €150,000; 75% of research costs to a maximum of €30,000. Contact Wexford local development Office on 053 9155800. Wexford People 
