business
{ Independent.ie Newsdesk 
    March 09 2017 08:31 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/in-the-workplace/major-new-event-your-business-live-will-gather-together-executives-decision-makers-entrepreneurs-owners-and-managers-35515446.html }
YOUR BUSINESS LIVE, a major new event for Ireland’s SME sector, has been launched this morning by Minister of State for Employment and Small Business Pat Breen. The two-day SME event, which takes place on October 17 and 18 2017 in the RDS Simmonscourt, Dublin, will gather together executives, decision-makers, entrepreneurs, owners and managers from around the country to network, learn and do business. Vodafone Ireland has been announced as a title sponsor for YOUR BUSINESS LIVE supported by Ibec, the Small Firms Association (SFA) and Enterprise Ireland. SME’s account for 99.8 per cent of all active businesses in Ireland. Speaking at the launch of the Independent News and Media event, Minister Breen said SME’s employ 70pc of people working in the private sector. “Central to the Irish economy and job creation, SME’s have shown great resilience and strong growth,” said Minister Breen. “At the same time, they continue to face significant challenges including external factors. As Minister of State for Employment and Small Business, I continue to address the need to support Ireland’s SME’s.” YOUR BUSINESS LIVE 2017 will facilitate interaction and collaboration among business decision makers, start-ups, owners and managers, providing the opportunity for Irish SME’s to showcase innovative new products and services, in addition to gaining industry knowledge and insights. The event will also create a new marketplace for the broad range of Irish SME’s – from start-up and micro, to small and medium businesses, as well as export led, across industry sectors.  “We are very proud to sponsor the new ‘Your Business Live Event’ said Claire Reynolds, Head of Small and Medium Enterprise at Vodafone Ireland. “This is a unique and important event which will not only give SME’s a platform to showcase their products and services, but also provide opportunity for knowledge sharing, collaboration and networking. “The SME sector is very important to Vodafone Ireland and we understand that SMEs need to be supported by a range of innovative technologies and converged communications solutions. One of the critical issues facing SMEs today is insufficient broadband access and we are working hard through our joint venture with ESB, SIRO, to provide a 100pc fibre-to-the-building broadband network with 1 gigabit speeds for the first time in Ireland. "One of our key areas of focus is to support local businesses by investing and empowering local communities and delivering equality of access to 1 gigabit broadband speed as a key growth enabler.” Ireland’s leading entrepreneurs are endorsing YOUR BUSINESS LIVE, whose event director is entrepreneur Sean Gallagher. They include David Bobbett, H&K International; Brody Sweeney, Camile Thai; Ray Coyle, Largo Foods; Vincent Cleary, Glenisk; Eamon Moore, EMIT; and Greg Clarke, Digicom. Dearbhail McDonald, Group Business Editor, INM, said that YOUR BUSINESS LIVE was the essential new event for Ireland’s SME leaders and aspiring entrepreneurs. “Ireland’s SME’s are not just the backbone of Ireland’s economy, they are also our most innovative and resilient businesses,” said Ms McDonald. “These entrepreneurs and their teams are the true champions of the recovery who have pushed through the hard yards, turning each setback into a comeback.” Mr Gallagher said that YOUR BUSINESS LIVE 2017 will be an exciting exhibition supported by an extensive programme of seminars and workshops given by some of Ireland’s most inspiring business leaders. “An ideal place to learn, network and be inspired, YOUR BUSINESS LIVE will be Ireland’s biggest and most important event of the year for the SME Sector,” said Mr Gallagher. “I have long been a champion of the SME sector. This is because of the great courage and bravery they have in setting up businesses and creating jobs, often in places where larger multinationals never can. In many ways these small and medium sized businesses are the glue that holds our communities together.” View the website here Online Editors 
