business
{ Louise McBride 
    April 07 2013 03:01 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/where-to-find-the-money-to-put-your-start-up-into-gear-29179096.html }
About 150,000 of those who lost their jobs over the last three years pocketed a redundancy payout. They were the lucky ones. Not all of those who lose their jobs are entitled to redundancy. Even for those who are, the payouts range from the meagre to the lavish. If you lost your job recently and got enough in your redundancy to set up your own company, you're probably enjoying being your own boss. Your redundancy payout will only fund your business for so long, however. In the second of a two-part series on reinventing yourself after you lose your job, the Sunday Independent finds out where you can get the cash to keep your company going after you set it up. We also ask some top entrepreneurs what they consider to be the keys to a successful business. STATE GRANTS A State grant could be just what you need to keep your business ticking over, and where you get the grant will largely depend on the size of your business. If you've been in business for a couple of years, employ one or two staff and don't intend to hire more than 10 people over the next few years, your best port of call is your local enterprise board, according to a spokeswoman for Enterprise Ireland (EI). If you've been in business a couple of years and can prove that you have the potential to hire more than 10 people and generate sales of more than €1m over the next three years, your best bet is EI. "Companies will be supported by either the county enterprise board or Enterprise Ireland," said a spokeswoman for EI. "They can't be supported by both agencies at the same time." €150,000 FOR SPRING CHICKENS So how much could you get from your local enterprise board? If you set up your business less than a year-and-a-half ago, you may be able to raise up to €150,000 from your local city or county enterprise board. This grant, which is known as a priming grant, covers costs such as rent, marketing, consultancy, utilities and salary. Although the maximum priming grant is €150,000, you're unlikely to get a grant of more than €80,000 unless you have the proven potential to export your product or service. If you set up your business more than a year-and-a-half-ago, you could also qualify for a grant of up to €150,000 from your local enterprise board. This grant – known as a business expansion grant – can also be used to cover costs such as rent, marketing, consultancy, utilities and salaries. But enterprise boards won't give out money willy-nilly. You must prove your business is viable, and provide a solid business plan, as well as tax clearance certs and certified accounts. You're unlikely to get a grant from your local enterprise board if you've set up a business which could trigger job losses in another company. If you set up a restaurant, cafe, hairdressers, mobile food outlet or accountancy firm, for example, you're unlikely to qualify for a grant from your enterprise board. However, if you've set up a niche manufacturing business – such as a craft or gift producer – or a tourism business aimed at overseas visitors, you've a good chance of getting the money. €25,000 GOVERNMENT LOAN If you've been banging your head off a brick wall trying to get a loan from your bank, you may be able to borrow up to €25,000 for your business from the state-funded Microfinance Ireland. To qualify for a loan, you must have a turnover of less than €2m and employ fewer than 10 people. As a large number of those who have applied for loans from Microfinance Ireland have been turned down, do your homework before applying for a loan. You must be able to prove that your business is commercially viable – and that you can afford to repay your loan and manage your banking affairs. You won't be considered for a loan if you haven't already applied for, and been turned down for, a bank loan. One of the main advantages of the Microfinance scheme is that its loans are available to businesses across "all industry sectors" – apart from businesses related to gambling, tobacco or human cloning. €50,000 FOR BIG DREAMERS If you have high hopes for your business and a good chance of realising those hopes, you could raise up to €50,000 from EI in return for a 10 per cent equity stake in your company. This finance is available through Enterprise Ireland's Competitive Start Fund. To qualify for money under this fund, you must have the potential to employ more than 10 people and generate sales of more than €1m over the next three years. If you can prove your business has this potential, Enterprise Ireland will consider you a high-potential start-up business – and offer you financial support on this basis. Your business must be less than six years old and only certain businesses will qualify for this finance. Among those eligible are companies specialising in cloud computing, games and life sciences. The money raised can be used to cover salaries, travel and consultancy fees. Another way to raise money from Enterprise Ireland as a high-potential start-up is through its Innovative HPSU Fund, where EI invests in your company along with private investors. OUTSIDE THE STATE As State grants usually only cover about half of certain business costs, you may have to raise money for your company elsewhere. It is still tough to raise money from banks – but if you have financial support from your local enterprise board or EI, it should make it easier for you to do so. Your local credit union may also be able to provide you with a small loan. If you have no luck with your bank or credit union, you might be able to raise money from a business angel, who invests in your business in return for a stake in your company. KEYS TO FLYING HIGH Although finance is important for any business, it will only get you so far. You have to be more than willing to roll up your sleeves if you want your business to succeed, according to Dragons' Den star, Ramona Nicholas. "Any business does not become an overnight success but if you work hard, put in those extra hours, cover every area possible and, most importantly, know your customer well, there is no reason why your business does not have a chance to succeed," says Nicholas. "You have to really love what you do for it to work. And you have to want to commit every hour of every day to it to grow and develop it into a successful business." Doing your utmost to achieve satisfied customers will also help. "Ask your satisfied customers to recommend you to other people," says Nicholas. "Customers will pay for 'value'. If you have a very satisfied customer and you are providing 'value' in their lives, they will recommend you to their friends." Nicholas also advised anyone who has just set up their own business to decide what they want out of the business and set goals. "Without clear defined goals which are to be achieved within a specific time frame, nothing is achieved," she says. "We just plod along at the same pace." Frugal thinking is invaluable if you've just set up your own business, according to Bobby Kerr, chairman of the coffee shop chain, Insomnia. "There is real value out there – go and get it," says Kerr, who believes cheap rent is up for grabs. "There are a lot of empty shops out there and some landlords are open to deals where they get a cut of your sales as a condition of charging a low rent," he says. You could, of course, side-step rent altogether by running your business from home – and this is something which a lot of start-up business people are doing today, according to Fiona Leahy, business adviser with the Kerry County Enterprise Board. "The days of going off getting a fancy high street premises with high rent and rates are gone," says Leahy. Jerry Kennelly, the entrepreneur and founder of the online design company Tweak, believes a small business run from home "by someone who is really competent is probably the least stressful way to live your life – and the most robust". Unless you can beat the competition and understand the economics of your business when pricing the product or service you're selling, you may never get there, warns Kennelly. It's important to know what price your customers are likely to pay for your product or service and how much of your product or service you need to sell to ensure the bills get paid. "Ask yourself if you really are that much better at the business than the existing providers – you need to be," he adds. "There are no prizes for just reinventing yourself." Irish Independent 
