business
{  
    March 15 2011 12:44 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/fingal-county-enterprise-board-have-a-business-course-to-help-you-27808753.html }
OVER 300 jobs have been created locally by graduates of the ' Start Your Own Business' programme in the last two years, according to new research from the Fingal County Enterprise Board. Impressively, 81% of the 483 course participants have already started or are about to start their own business in Fingal, resulting in at least 300 jobs to date. The part-time ' Start Your Own Business Programme' is delivered by the Fingal County Enterprise Board several times a year and is geared towards people thinking of starting their own company. Participants are taught about effective business planning, finance, marketing, sales, legal issues and funding sources. The research findings, carried out independently last month, have shown that 40% of businesses established in Fingal are currently exporting, or have real potential to export in the near future. Oisin Geoghegan, CEO of the Fingal County Enterprise Board, welcomed the figures, saying: ' The importance of these new businesses and new jobs to our local economy is clear. Small businesses have the potential to turn our economy around, creating real and sustainable jobs in our communities. Part of the role of the Enterprise Board is to help those businesses with growth potential to develop that potential, to help maximise job creation,' he said. On another optimistic note, 99% of those surveyed were happy with their decision to set up a business in Fingal. ' This figure in particular demonstrates a huge amount of confidence by these businesses to grow and prosper, despite the tough trading climate,' added Geoghegan. The next ten-week 'Start Your Own Business' Programme is starting on Tuesday, March 29th in Swords and the ten modules covered under the programme include Self-assessment; Legal Issues for Start-Ups; Preparing a Business Plan; Marketing; Market Research; Finance; Funding Sources; Basic Bookkeeping; Sales; and ICT. Training is just one of the support services on offer to new business start-ups in Fingal and one of the most practical and valuable support measures is the one-toone mentoring service. The Fingal County Enterprise Board has a panel of eighteen skilled business mentors, who are available to guide and advise eligible start-ups on a range of functional areas, at subsidised rates. The Enterprise Board also runs two successful networks: the Fingal Women in Business Network and the Fingal Business Network, which is aimed at newly established business owners in the region Mr Geoghegan concluded: 'Enterprise supports do work effectively in Fingal, but we must continue to invest in job creation measures, to enable more people to start a business or grow an existing business here.' Places on the Start Your Own Business Programme cost € 200, which include all course materials and refreshments. Bookings can be made on-line at www.fingalceb.ie or by telephoning 01-8900 800. 
