business
{ Stephen Fernane 
    October 14 2016 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/time-to-get-down-to-business-with-the-kerryman-business-awards-16-35122854.html }
The Kerryman Business Awards are now open for entry and it's time to get down to business if you feel you have what it takes to claim this important accolade. The Kerryman - along with its nine sponsors - want to reward people who make business a priority and who wish to see their innovative and pioneering efforts recognised as the best in the county.  This is set to be the biggest and the most exciting event in Kerry's business calendar and the finale takes place on Friday 25 November at The Ballygarry House Hotel. But between now and then, it's time to submit your application which is FREE to apply. Guest speaker at the event will be Dragon's Den star, Gavin Duffy, while the 2014 Rose of Tralee, Maria Walsh, will be the evening's emcee.  In all, there will be three businesses shortlisted from each of the nine categories with the final winner from each category going head-to-head for the overall prize of 'Best Kerry Business Award 2016'. The aim of the competition is to identify and celebrate the diverse range of industries throughout the county from small start-ups to multinationals and the people and personalities behind them. The Kerryman Business Awards are a countywide initiative that recognises the entrepreneurialism, innovation, diversity and talent that exists in every sector of the local business community. The awards will equally honour Kerry's many industry leaders by acknowledging their inventive business methods, product development, enterprise, sustainability, and overall success. "This is the first year of The Kerryman Business Awards and it's sure to become one of the main talking points on the business calendar as we look to honour the hard work and endeavour of businesses in Kerry," said John Feerick, Managing Director of The Kerryman.   "We're also delighted to announce the addition of associate sponsors for each of our nine categories and judging from the hugely positive feedback we have received, we are confident the level of entries will be of a high standard. I look forward to celebrating with you all at our Gala Awards ceremony on Friday 25 November at The Ballygarry House Hotel," John added.  Siobhán Murphy is The Kerryman's Advertising and Marketing Manager and she described the awards as a very important opportunity to give some well-deserved recognition to both individual and group businesses for their entrepreneurial success.  "They tell the story behind the success, the commitment, sheer dedication and hard work that goes on behind the scenes in every business in Kerry," said Siobhan.  "We would encourage all businesses to rally around and recognise the organisations that are performing well and that as many businesses as possible would either put themselves forward, or nominate someone else in one or more of the categories listed. These awards will also give your company the opportunity to see its profile rise and be seen as a model of success," concluded Siobhán. Kerryman 
