business
{  
    August 11 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/do-you-have-what-it-takes-to-be-droghedas-best-business-27103763.html }
HAS your company got what it takes to win the title of Drogheda’s best business 2005?Drogheda is to have its own Oscars as a major new awards scheme to showcase business excellence in the town was launched this week. HAS your company got what it takes to win the title of Drogheda’s best business 2005? Drogheda is to have its own Oscars as a major new awards scheme to showcase business excellence in the town was launched this week. Drogheda Chamber of Commerce, in conjunction with the 
Drogheda Independent and a host of local sponsors, is holding the competition to find the area’s best businesses in eight different categories. The winners will be presented with their awards by broadcaster Miriam O’Callaghan at a glitzy black tie ball in the Boyne Valley Hotel and Country Club on November 12. ‘It’s about creating a real quality mark for Drogheda. We want our town to become synonymous with business excellence,’ said Chamber of Commerce President Graham O’Rourke. ‘The Business Excellence Awards give you the opportunity to showcase your business acumen and ambition, allowing you to bring your company to a wider network of customers and fellow entrepreneurs. ‘The Awards ceremony, which will become an important date in the area’s social calendar, will garner much publicity for the nominees and award-winners, while award-holders can look forward to increased profile and the benefits of being recognised as the top company in their category,’ he said. Information on entering the awards scheme is being posted out to some 2,500 business in the Drogheda area, including South Louth and East Meath this week. Entering is easy, and companies are being given a chance to shine by proving their leadership and direction and the role of their employees in achieving success. They will be also be judged on their standards of customer service, their impact on Drogheda and of course the bottom line, their business results. Award winners will have to prove that they are indeed top of their class. ‘It’s not about big numbers, it’s about results. You could be a small company with two employees but have tripled your turnover in the past year,’ Mr O’Rourke pointed out. ‘We have set companies a challenging task but we want the awards to reflect business realities and the determination of local entrepreneurs to succeed.’ Companies can enter themselves under eight different categories, the best newcomer, the best small business, the best e-business, best business growth and best innovation award. There will also be three prizes awarded for excellent customer service in the tourism, retail and service sectors. There is no application fee and businesses can be considered under a number of different headings if they choose. Companies shortlisted for the award will be invited to give a presentation to the judges and join in a question and answer session. Mystery shoppers will also be on hand to give their verdict in the customer service categories. A highly qualified panel of experts from outside the area will be picking the award winners. Chaired by Dundalk-based business consultant Padraig Warren, the panel includes the CEO of Louth County Enterprise Board Ronan Dennedy and Joe English, regional manager of Plato. Rosemary Sexton from Enterprise Ireland, Maureen Ward manger of Louth Leader and Robin O’Sullivan, President of Chamber of Commerce Ireland. ‘We aim to raise the bar for standards of business in Drogheda. The spin-off, is with any quality awards, is that Drogheda will be seen as a better place to do business,’ said Padraig Warren. ‘Both the town and the companies entering the awards scheme will benefit hugely from it.’ Among the companies sponsoring the awards are Flogas, Callan Computers, the Boyne Valley Country Club, Brú Bistro, Chara Estate Agents, Flogas, MOR Solutions, the Gunne Group, Murphy Environmental Ltd, VHI and IIB Bank. Drogheda Borough Council is backing the awards and the 
Drogheda Independent is the Chamber’s media partner for the scheme.  You will be able to follow the progress of the awards, and also read about some of our local business success stories, in the Drogheda Independent. And companies who are shortlisted for the awards will also feature in a special 
Drogheda Independent supplement to mark the occasion. Companies who would like to show off their business acumen and ambition can pick up an application form online at www.droghedachamber.com/awards or call 9833544. 
