business
{  
    September 27 2007 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/firms-gain-from-falling-rates-26321168.html }
TRADITIONALLY in Irish banking it is big business which commands the prime interest rates while small business have to make do with whatever they get -- and are often happy to get it. Look closely at the state of play at the moment however and you will see that the tables have turned in favour of the small guys. Most corporate loans are tied to the cost of funds. As the credit crunch has taken hold the cost of funds has also increased, from 4.12pc at the end of June to 4.55pc yesterday. This means that the prime business rate, the rate for corporate overdrafts, has increased from about 4.62pc to about 5.05pc yesterday. Normally all other business loans are tied to the prime business rate, which means that smaller firms would be sharing the pain. But increased competition in the small business banking market has meant that that rates for new loans are actually falling. For instance this day week Bank of Ireland, which has almost 40pc of the SME current account market, will reduce the rate it charges for new loans up to €25,000 from 6.65pc to 5.9pc. AIB, which has more than 40pc of that market charges 6.75pc for start-up on new loans up to €60,000. But AIB is not likely to sit around watching their competitors eat lunch. According to John Kelly, the head of SME strategy at the bank it is planning a package of measures specifically targeted at the SME market to be unveiled next month. Those measures will almost definitely include lower rates. Business banking, more than any other aspect of the market, is a relationship business. Having built up that relationship many business are very reluctant to switch banks, usually only trying if their own bank refuses them a loan. For banks this means that the only way of winning new business is through start-ups. Ulster Bank, which has less than 20pc of the SME current account market, understands this well, which is why it offers a market-leading rate of 4.95pc for amounts up to €70,000. Bank of Scotland has made great play of taking on banks which have traditionally dominated the market but its stays clear of start-ups. NIB does fund start-ups but does not say what its rates are so it is impossible to say whether it is competitive. "We work closely with the customers themselves and deal individually with each customer depending on the business, the type of customer, how much they are looking for and obviously affordability," said a spokesman for the bank. While start-up loan rates are falling rates for other business loans are expected to increase considerably. This is because banks are most likely to pass on the pain to the least competitive part of their business. That rules out start-up business loans and consumer mortgages, where the level of competition remains fierce. Irish business seems likely to bear the brunt of interest rate rises that could follow the recent credit crunch in international markets. "I think it is a reasonable assessment if you just look back over the history of small business and banks over the last 40 years -- we have been the whipping boys and there's no doubt we won't be the whipping boys again," said Mark Fielding, chief executive of business lobby group ISME . As far back as February ISME was complaining that small business was being singled out after it was revealed in the Central Bank Quarterly Bulletin that SMEs are paying up to a staggering 34pc more for loans than their European counterparts. "Small businesses in Ireland continue to be trampled on when it comes to their banking relationships, paying 11.3pc more for loans up to €1 million, 23.5pc more for overdrafts and a massive 34.4pc more on amounts over €1m, compared to the average across the EU. The rates differential clearly demonstrate the lack of adequate competition in the Irish business banking sector," the business organisation said. Mr Kelly rejects the argument that SMEs are getting a hard time generally. "I don't see it simply because of the hugely competitive nature of SME banking in Ireland at the moment. Banks have suffered margin erosion on SME lending because of competitive pressures and I believe competitive pressures for banks outweigh the complications caused by turmoil in interest rates at the moment," he said. Kelly agrees that there has been a move away from the rate matrix lending model towards more individual negotiations. "What happens now is guys sit down and say, I want to borrow money over two to three years -- what's your best rate? The wholesale rate is quite transparent. Where the negotiation takes place is on the margin and they'll say you are charging me 2pc over the wholesale margin and I can get that one and half in another bank." "We are committed to keeping it there until December 31," he said. "In terms of loan matrix we thought it was an unfair way to look at start-ups. If we were to go that route, it would have meant the guys that were borrowing less were paying more. We said let's keep it simple, keep it transparent and go for one rate." Nevertheless, AIB's Kelly advises SMEs that it is a good time to look after general housekeeping issues. "Keep your working capital to a minimum and keep your interest bill down," he says. "Collect what you are owed, incentivise a bigger discount for early payment of your debtors, watch your stock levels. Secondly, everybody is using overdrafts for things they shouldn't. Don't be using overdrafts to buy machines and cars that should be put on more structured finance. Sit back and say can I save one pc by putting it on structured finance rather using my overdraft". (Additional reporting Tom McEnaney) 
