business
{ Ciaran Brennan 
    January 31 2008 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/your-business-tax-plan-is-key-to-company-success-26348501.html }
Only half of businesses claim to be well informed about business tax issues, a recent survey from the Irish Taxation Institute (ITI) revealed, highlighting the fact that many company owners are missing out on the benefits of a range of measures that have been introduced to ease the administrative burden that tax compliance places on small businesses. "Every business needs a tax strategy," says Una Maguire, senior tax manager with the ITI. "However big or small a business may be, time spent establishing your business's tax systems and strategy in the early days can save money, time and stress in the future. The Irish tax code includes a suite of reliefs for business which, if properly structured, can significantly contribute to the growth of your business." One of the key tax incentives for SMEs in Ireland is the business expansion scheme (BES), according to Maguire. "This scheme is a perfect example of joined-up-thinking in tax policy as it contributes to economic activity and is central to getting new businesses up and running," she says. BES essentially provides income tax relief for individuals who invest in corporate trades. The relief is given as a deduction from total income and the maximum amount that qualifies for relief in any one tax year is €150,000. Companies who use BES to raise funds can do so up to a maximum of €2m. Budget 2007 extended both the corporate and the individual ceilings for BES as well as extending the availability of the relief to 2013. The Seed Capital Scheme was introduced to encourage employees to start up their own businesses and it allows a person who starts their own business to claim a refund of tax paid on income earned in previous years in respect of their investment in the new business. "If you take a job with a new company you have started, you may be able to claim seed capital relief for up to six previous tax years," says Neil Hughes of independent accounting firm Hughes Blake. "You must take up the job with the company either within the tax year in which you make the investment, or within six months of having made the investment." Research & Development is not solely about petri dishes and white coats, according to Maguire. A 20pc tax credit is available for companies who engage in qualifying R&D expenditure. The relief is allowed by way of a tax credit of 20pc of a business's incremental qualifying R&D spend over the amount they spent in a base year (fixed at 2003 until 2013). Budgets 2007 and 2008 introduced some measures to make the payment of preliminary corporation tax easier for companies with a tax liability of less than €200,000 in the preceding chargeable period, Maguire explains. "The €200,000 threshold, previously €150,000, applies to payment dates arising after 5th December 2007. These 'small companies' are entitled to base their preliminary tax payment, which is due one month before the period end, on 100pc of the prior period's corporation tax," she says. New or start-up companies with a corporation tax liability of less than €200,000 for their first accounting period are not required to pay preliminary tax in respect of the first accounting period. SMEs and self-employed business people can also avail of a number of other allowances and reliefs, according to Hughes. "You are not liable to benefit-in-kind tax on the following benefits provided by the 'employer', in particular, say in owner-managed, single-member companies: an annual or monthly pass for bus, train or Luas; mobile phones, computer equipment and broadband web access, where private use is incidental; relevant professional subscriptions; private use of a company van that is essential for your work; and shares acquired under an approved savings-related share option scheme," explains Hughes. Payments You can also claim travel expenses and subsistence allowance at civil service rates, he says. In general, expense payments are subject to PAYE tax unless a reimbursement of documented mileage or expenses is incurred on behalf of the employer, he says. "Nevertheless, provided there is a supporting documentation, you can be paid a lunch or overnight allowance, tax-free, in accordance with the civil service subsistence rates," says Hughes. "If you claim mileage, you must keep a diary showing the full address of places you visited each day and the mileage involved." It is also essential that your business strategy is in line with your tax strategy from day one, according to Maguire. "The aim is to set these systems up so that they complement, rather than pull against each other." Case Study Java Republic Roasting Company The Dublin-based Java Republic Roasting Company is probably one of the most successful BES-backed businesses in Ireland. The company first raised around IR£300,000 in April 1999 and without the scheme Java Republic's managing director David McKernan reckons the company would never have got off the ground. "Bank of Ireland enterprise support unit came in and backed our business right from the beginning, but one of the key reasons they backed it, apart from the fact that they thought the promoter might make it and they liked the idea, was that they were certainly impressed that we got an investment of IR£300,000. Java Republic would not have started up without the initial IR£300,000 BES investment." Since then, the company has visited the BES well on a number of occasions, raising €800,000 through the BDO Davy BES fund and a further €1m last year from a BES scheme through Cronin & Company accountants. Along with funding from Bank of Ireland, this is enabling the company to build a new a 26,000 sq ft production facility, roastery and cafe at Blanchardstown. "It just goes to show that you can get BES funding from different sources, which is vital for guys like myself," says McKernan, adding that it provides great opportunities for investors and businesses alike. It seems to have paid off for Java Republic. Last year, the company had turnover of €7m and boss David McKernan says it is growing by about 35pc a year. 
