business
{ Sean Gallagher 
    January 17 2015 06:55 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/small-business/the-organic-yogurt-makers-who-have-a-real-hunger-for-success-30915690.html }
This week I'm visiting Co Offaly. The land is flat, and even in January the fields look green and lush around the townland of Killeigh, just outside Tullamore.  I have come to meet Vincent Cleary, managing director of Glenisk, Ireland's leading producer of organic dairy and goat's milk products. Set up in 1987, by Vincent's late father when he was 62, this is a now a thriving family-run business. But there was a time when it wasn't so. In fact, it was one of those start-ups that nearly didn't make it. However, a combination of identifying a niche in the market together with a clear vision and lots of courage and hard work has seen the business grow to become one of the fastest-growing food companies in Ireland at the moment - most recently reaching No 33 in Checkout's annual index of the Top 100 Brands in Ireland. While now employing 65 staff, the business is still very much a family-run operation. Vincent's brothers head up each of the key business units, with Gerard being the company's financial director, Mark the operations director, Brian the farm liaison director and Aidan the manager of the milk plant. His sister Evelyn heads up administration and his cousin Ned, who was one of the first three employees in the business, is now the company's transport manager. As we tour the company's production facility, Vincent shows me the firm's extensive portfolio of products. "Our large pots of low-fat natural yogurt continues to be our best-performing product while our kids' and baby ranges and our Greek-style yogurts are our fastest growing ranges," explains Vincent. Organic yogurt, milk, cream and creme fraiche represent 80pc of everything the company produces, with the remainder consisting of goat's milk and goat's yogurt. Apart from its rich and smooth taste, part of what appeals to Glenisk customers is the fact that their yogurts are made with only organic milk and are genuinely free from artificial ingredients or additives. "Our big move came in 1995, when we switched to using organic milk," says Vincent. "Today, we have more than 50 small family farms across Ireland who supply us with organic cow's and goat's milk," he adds. However, supply of organic milk remains a challenge for the business and with strong sales and a growing demand for their product, Vincent is continuing to recruit more farmers who might be willing to convert to organic production. " But 'organic' means much more than just natural," says Vincent, a committed environmentalist. "While organic milk comes from cows that eat grass which is grown without the use of synthetic fertilizer, it's much more than that. It's about a holistic approach to farming that uses methods that respect the countryside and avoid polluting. An approach where farmers are committed to animal welfare and the production of healthy and wholesome milk. "It couldn't be clearer - if we protect our land and animals, we are protecting people's health for generations to come," he adds. About 80pc of everything the company produces is sold in Ireland, with the remainder going to the UK, Spain and the United Arab Emirates. Although Glenisk is now the top-selling brand of Irish yogurt, Vincent believes there is still considerable progress to be made in displacing products currently being imported. "Not many people realise that, despite Ireland's strong dairy sector, over 75pc of all yogurt sold in Ireland is currently imported," he says. Like many indigenous brands in the food sector, Glenisk has to contend with these much larger imported brands who have huge promotional budgets. As a result, he must rely instead on a more grassroots style of marketing with a focus on in-store tastings, promotions at events like Bloom, the Ploughing Championships, street festivals and sporting events. But it's a strategy that seems to be working effectively. "Our strategy is simple. It centres on getting our product into the hands of potential customers so that they can experience and taste the quality of the product." Glenisk was set up in 1987 by Vincent's father, Jack Cleary. Jack had left school at the age of 11 to work on the family's beef farm, transforming the operation to dairy in the late 1950s - and by the late 1970s, he had developed the farm to where he was milking over 400 cows, a large herd even in today's terms. Jack was a natural entrepreneur. In addition to running his farm, he started a milk bottling plant in 1980 called Tullamore Dairies (only bought from his family by Glanbia in 2011). Then in 1987, Jack set up Glenisk to convert excess milk into yogurt. "It was a really enterprising move when you consider that he was 62 years old at that time," explains Vincent. "While many people might have been considering retirement, he was launching an entirely new business," he adds. Vincent left college early in order to join the family business. However, his career was cut short by what he calls a clash of personalities or, perhaps, a clash of generations. "Like many young men joining their family's business, I had a falling out with my father and left," says Vincent. For the next seven years Vincent worked in Germany.His first job was cleaning toilets in a hotel - but before long, he had worked his way up to become the duty manager of a large international hotel. Throughout that time, however, the longing to return to Ireland never faded. He decided to return home and after making his peace with his father, he joined him in the business. Like many who return from their experiences abroad, Vincent was full of fresh ideas and new insights and was enthusiastic about helping shape the future direction of the yogurt business. However, in 1995, his father died unexpectedly. It was only then that the true picture of the business became clear. "Our accountants brought all the family together. To our shock and surprise, they advised us to close the business," says Vincent. "At that time, it had three employees and was turning £400,000. But it was losing a lot of money. Their fear was that if we didn't wind it up, then it could end up bringing down both the farm and Tullamore Dairies," he adds. However, in a daring move, Vincent convinced his siblings that there might be a future for the company but only if they changed the business model and focused exclusively on organic production. With Vincent as MD, and his siblings taking up various management positions, the company then changed course and gradually began to prosper. In 1996, the company moved into goat's milk production -almost by accident. Vincent had rescued an abandoned and distressed donkey from the side of the road and, in an effort to settle the animal, had also taken in two goats from the local animal rescue centre to keep him company. Of course, the goats began producing milk which led to them having to be milked daily. His good deed was rewarded when, after he told the story to the buyer in what was then Quinnsworth, the buyer immediately invited him to start supplying the store with fresh goat's milk. "Apparently, he had just had a request from a customer for goat's milk for her child, who had been diagnosed lactose intolerant," he explains. Vincent and his wife Kerstin then set about building up their own goat herd, eventually growing it to more than 150. "For the next seven-and-a- half years, we lived in a mobile home, without electricity, and grew the herd," he adds. Today, goat's milk has become a €4m business for Glenisk and represents 20pc of overall turnover. Today too, the firm gets its goat's milk from 10 preferred farmers around the country who, between them, milk more than 6,500 goats. In 2006, Glenisk made the strategic decision to sell a minority stake in its company to Stonyfield Europe, a subsidiary of the largest organic yogurt manufacturer in the US. "The idea of bringing in an outside investor was something we had been toying with for some time,"says Vincent. "And it turned out to a marriage made in corporate heaven," he adds. The investment enabled the company to rebuild its manufacturing facility as well as building in spare capacity to accommodate future growth. It also provided additional investment for research and development work, allowing the company to come up with new and innovative products. Then, in 2008, when many firms were beginning to struggle as a result of the downturn in the economy, Glenisk began to experience its strongest growth period ever. "We realised that, with customers becoming more cost conscious than ever, we had to start emphasising the added value aspect of our products. So we began to highlight quality and taste, the health benefits of our products, our commitment to organic agriculture, our use of renewable energy and our commitment to recycling and eco-friendly packaging." The results were little short of amazing. Turnover doubled to €20m and its market share tripled from 4pc in 2008 to over 12pc in 2013. As he looks to the future, Vincent tells me he continues to see opportunities everywhere. He wants to continue to develop new and value-added products for the Irish market and sees huge potential to expand the company's reach into overseas markets. As I leave Glenisk and Co Offaly behind, what stands out most for me is the progressive and enterprising nature of the late Jack Cleary, the courage of Vincent and his siblings, their unwavering commitment to quality and innovation and their strategic vision in taking an investor into their business, who added not just financial resources but relevant global and sectoral knowledge. But as they say in the food business, the proof of the pudding is in the eating - and as I tuck into a pot of strawberry low-fat organic Greek-style yogurt, I can clearly see what makes Glenisk the success it has now become. Glenisk Organic Dairy, Newtown, Killeigh, Co Offaly. Tel: 057 9344000, or go to www.glenisk.com. Recognise your own value as an entrepreneur "The world needs entrepreneurs. Know too, that many people who run multi-billion dollar businesses, though successful, lack your unique combination of skills and courage to start a business from scratch. These are rare and valuable skills." Make sure your idea is commercially sound "In business, you have to get the basics right. It's not enough to just recognise a need, find a gap or spot an opportunity, you have to research the market thoroughly to be confident that your idea is commercially viable." Stick at it "Most successful entrepreneurs will tell you that once you have put the fundamentals in place in your business, what your new project needs is time. You have to stick with things - it takes time to nurture a new project. Work hard, but learn to be patient." Sunday Indo Business 
