business
{ Brendan Keane 
    November 23 2019 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/bunclody-and-districts-new-website-means-business-38710999.html }
A new website aimed specifically at promoting the business sector in Bunclody and the district was officially launched last week. The event took place in River's Edge and was attended by local business owners and members of the local community. Those in attendance were told that the new site, 'www.BunclodyBusiness.com', will showcase the business community in the Bunclody area in addition to promoting the town as an ideal place to live. Cllr Barbara-Anne Murphy was MC on the day and having welcomed everyone to the event and highlighting the significance of the occasion for the town she invited the Chief Executive Officer of Wexford County Council, Tom Enright, to launch the site. In his address Mr Enright said the site was 'a great example of people coming together to promote their town'. 'At Wexford County Council we're always happy to support communities that are active in trying to help themselves,' he said. He said the local authority was going through a period of 'significant change' and said close to €1bn is currently being invested in infrastructure across the county. He said the futures of Bunclody and Enniscorthy were closely linked as a result of the opportunities presented to develop enterprise and economic activity with the opening of the M11 motorway. 'With access to two motorways within 15 minutes, Bunclody is a well-connected town and has much to offer businesses in terms of its attractive setting,' said Mr Enright. He also commented there are particular opportunities for the town to develop tourism into the future. Among the other people in attendance at the event, including those who spoke, were Cllr Kathleen Codd-Nolan, Cathaoirleach of Enniscorthy Municipal District Council, Caroline Tully and Helen Conway, from Blackstairs Web Design, Caroline Kidd, of Star Content, and Jean O'Connell, from O'Connell Marketing. Business owners in attendance were given a demonstration of the website in action and those who hadn't already done so were given the opportunity to sign up to it on the night and get a free listing online of their business. The speakers gave advice on how to maximise online presence, writing content for websites, marketing a business and planning for 2020. Bunclody Business was set up by local business owners, for local business owners, under the auspices of Enniscorthy & District Chamber of Commerce with support from Wexford County Council and in particular, Cllr Barbara-Anne Murphy and Enniscorthy Municipal District Council. Speaking about the new website Cllr Murphy said it will give an opportunity to around 400 businesses operating in the Bunclody area to have an online presence. 'It will give them a digital platform so that customers and potential clients can find them in a simple web search,' she said. 'I want to sincerely thank Caroline Tully and Helen Conway from Blackstairs Web Design who created the website,' she added. Cllr Murphy also acknowledged the role played by Caroline Kidd and O'Connell Marketing in getting the new website up-and-running. 'They volunteered their professional services to help improve business in the Bunclody area,' she said. Cllr Murphy also thanked Maree Lyng, the President of Enniscorthy and District Chamber of Commerce, and Ger Mackey, Enniscorthy District Manager, for their commitment to the project. 'We have businesses from sole traders to large companies featured on the website,' said Cllr Murphy.   In closing the event she urged local business owners to familiarise themselves with the website: 'I urge all business owners and managers in the area to log on to www.BunclodyBusiness.com and get their business details on this wonderful website.' New Ross Standard 
