business
{  
    September 16 2012 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/chris-martin-let-us-give-smes-the-support-that-they-truly-deserve-26898680.html }
There is a somewhat narrow debate currently under way in this country about the importance of multinationals versus small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in establishing a stable and prosperous economy. A lot has been said about the crucial role that multinationals play in the Irish market and our journey back to economic recovery. The invaluable contribution that they make has been well documented. They provide significant employment and they give support to R&D ventures, infrastructural investment and to skill-base training. In stark contrast, the critically important role that SMEs play in the vitality of villages, towns and cities around the country is often overlooked. We need to recognise that it is not a simple case of one versus the other -- multi-nationals or SMEs. Many commentators fail to appreciate the fact that SMEs are the lifeblood of our local economy and, by extension, of our national economic heartbeat. Both multinational investment and a healthy SME sector are of critical importance to our economic recovery -- and both should be equally prioritised. The influential Blueprint for Ireland's Recovery report, drafted by leading businesses and public figures, places SMEs at the frontline of our economic recovery. We, at Musgrave, also believe in the power of SMEs, and can provide a unique perspective on the multinational versus SME debate. We are a multinational business with sales of €4.5bn in 2011. Following the acquisition of Superquinn last year, there are now 3,435 stores associated with Musgrave brands in Ireland, the UK and Spain. In Ireland, our performance is dependent on the success of the 900 SME retailers that we partner. These local retailers own and operate SuperValu, Centra and Daybreak stores in towns, villages and cities across Ireland. In many ways, Musgrave is a microcosm of how multi-nationals and SMEs together can deliver a strong national economy. We supply the sourcing, sales, marketing and supply chain expertise that enable these 900 local SMEs to go head-to-head with the international supermarket chains. Together with these retail partners, we are responsible for almost €6bn of annual economic activity in Ireland. This represents commerce almost exclusively conducted within and between local Irish communities. Musgrave and its retail partners employ almost 29,000 people in Ireland -- that's more than any other single business and more than any other organisation, save the Government itself. For every one job created directly, cumulatively 0.7 jobs are created indirectly -- this indicates that Musgrave and its SME retail partners are responsible for a further 10,500 full-time jobs. This means a total of around 40,000 jobs depend on Musgrave's multinational/SME partner business. We talk to hundreds of SMEs around the country every day and, as a result, have an in-depth understanding of the challenges they face in running sustainable businesses. We need to foster an environment that allows local businesses and enterprises to flourish. This in turn creates and sustains jobs. There are a number of changes that need to be implemented in order to achieve this. Restore confidence The retail market in which we operate has changed utterly. In recent years, we have seen a more modest and value-focused consumer emerge. Consumers have less disposable income and are continuing to look for ways to control their spending. They are also saving and repaying debt much more diligently. A recent report by the UCD Michael Smurfit Graduate Business School and the Marketing Institute of Ireland showed that the personal savings ratio, which includes savings and debt repayment, continues to rise in 2012 and is now around 13 per cent of disposable income. Consumer confidence is being negatively impacted by high levels of direct and indirect taxation. While we recognise the extreme level of economic realignment that needs to take place and the limited options available to politicians, we must recognise that consumers will simply stop spending if taxation is too high. More credit for SMEs The SME sector is being crippled due to a lack of access to capital. To put it simply, not enough lending is taking place. The recent Central Bank report, Irish SME Credit Supply and Demand, Comparisons Across Surveys and Countries, confirms that Ireland has the second-lowest approval level for small business loan applications in the eurozone, just ahead of Greece. It is critical that this downward spiral is reversed and enterprises and SMEs are provided with the financial support they need to do business. A State-backed enterprise bank should be established as soon as possible. Lower business costs The level of costs involved in doing business in Ireland is a barrier to employment and a threat to jobs. A review of the administrative costs that are influenced or set by Government as well as the cost of locally traded products, such as property and payroll, will be critical to improving the competitiveness of the SME sector -- and the Irish food retail market in particular. If these costs can be minimised, it will be easier and more affordable for businesses to increase their workforce and build and maintain an environment in which businesses can thrive. Minimise red tape The amount of red tape that entrepreneurs have to go through in order to set up and run a business in this country is unwarranted and a drain on their limited resources. This bureaucracy needs to be minimised so as to make it as easy as possible for our entrepreneurs to focus on running successful businesses. Create an entrepreneurial environment In these difficult times, the focus can often be on challenges rather than opportunities. Some of Ireland's finest businesses operating today started in the teeth of the 1980s recession. Working together, Government and business must encourage those risk-taking entrepreneurs who are the founders of start-up companies around the country. Capital is key, and ensuring access to seed money for entrepreneurs with viable business ideas should be a priority. However, it goes beyond the simple finances. Business owners need mentoring, support and advice as to how they go about starting and maintaining a successful company. Enterprise Ireland is carrying out good work in this area, and we would like to see this extended and strengthened. At Musgrave, we have experience from working with Enterprise Ireland, Bord Bia and Teagasc. Through our SuperValu Supplier Development Programme, we identify start-up food suppliers and provide them with a six-month programme of mentoring, workshops, advice and the support they need to develop to a stage where they can achieve a supermarket listing. It has been a hugely successful programme. To date 26 firms have achieved listings. We see this as a promising example of Government and business working together in a practical, positive manner. It is this oft-referenced 'joined-up approach' to the promotion of entrepreneurship that is required on a wider scale. The Musgrave business model highlights how SME development must become a key driver of growth in Ireland. The national economy is the accumulation of all the local economies in the cities, towns, villages and suburbs around the country; both the local and national are inter-related. We need to recognise that a crucial and sustainable factor in our economic recovery is right here on our own doorstep, and that investing in a better future is actually about supporting Irish entrepreneurs who are the bedrock of local communities. Our economy needs small businesses that are innovative, ambitious and connected to communities. Our society needs jobs that enable people to live in their own localities. We shouldn't just wait around for a multinational to come in and create jobs and prosperity to local communities. While foreign direct investment is most welcome, we must also prioritise local entrepreneurs to build a strong platform for future growth. Chris Martin is chief executive officer at the Musgrave Group Sunday Indo Business 
