business
{  
    March 26 2010 01:58 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/localnotes/helping-you-to-manage-your-finance-and-taxation-management-skills-27570053.html }
In the current climate, Sligo County Enterprise Board recognises the necessity for small business owner / managers to maintain strict control of their finances. There are a number of initiatives which we are currently involved with which will assist Owner / managers to increase their financial management skills. We are currently recruiting for a 'Finance & Taxation Management' training programme. Please see our advertisement in this supplement for details. Put simply, the aim of the Programme is to assist participants to develop their finance and taxation management skills. It will be delivered in a practical, straightforward manner, with the emphasis being firmly on assisting participants to gain a greater understanding of the financial & taxation responsibilities of running a business. We are also recruiting for our forthcoming 'Costing & Pricing' Workshop. Everyone involved in running their own business at present, recognises the importance of lowering their costs as much as possible, and ensuring they are charging the correct price for their product or service. This Workshop is taking place on April 21st, in Sligo Development Centre, Cleveragh Road, Sligo, from 10.00am – 4.30pm. The focus of this Workshop is The Workshop is specifically designed to develop a range of skills and capabilities for the small business owner/manager. In addition it is intended that these managers will train others within their Company to enable the Business to become more cost effectivenow even more important in today's business environment. As part of the training program, participants will undertake a number of exercises during the course, which are designed to test their basic knowledge of the cost structures and general finances of the business. Topics covered will include: the basic principles of Costing, distinguishing between controllable and uncontrollable costs, how to control costs, the importance of Contributions or Margins, the difference between Contribution and Profit, distinguishing the difference between Profit and Cash Flow, how to price products or services, how to understanding and calculate Break even prices, how to understand costs & business viability and how to develop a costing template for your own businesses. The Workshop will be delivered by Neil Gaynor, of Gaynor Consulting, who has extensive experience in working with small business in this area. Please contact Sligo County Enterprise Board at your earliest convenience for an Application Form and to reserve your place on this workshop, as we anticipate heavy demand. Sligo County Enterprise Board is also offering places on its 'Tradelinks 2' Programme, which has been launched recently. As part of it range of supports to encourage businesses to innovate and look to new markets Sligo County Enterprise Board is encouraging applicants for its Tradelinks II Programme. . Tradelinks II is designed to assist in the development of microenterprise in the border region and will try and help them undertake trade in new markets including the crossborder market. The programme provides businesses with one to one in business mentoring from professional business consultants who each have a particular specialism in marketing, operations and management, innovation, IT, exporting etc. The programme includes three main phases – Assessment, Market Entry Support and Business Support mentoring and will assist in developing linkages in Northern Ireland where necessary. The programme can provide up to €5500 worth of consultancy supports that could transform a business. The business will be required to contribute time and contribute a small fee at the beginning of the programme. Said Liam Kiely, Assistant CEO of Sligo County Enterprise Board; 'Businesses need any type of support they can get in the current climate. The Board is trying to encourage businesses to add more value to their products and services, cut costs and innovate to become more competitive. We are also encouraging businesses to seek new markets at home and abroad when local markets are proving to be difficult. The Tradelinks II Programme can help businesses achieve this through intensive mentoring and guidance designed to address the particular issues or opportunities a business is currently facing.' Tradelinks II is a partnership initiative between Enterprise NI, the Border County Enterprise Boards, and the network of local Enterprise Agencies and is funded by the European Union's INTERREG IVA Programme. For further information on the programme contact Sligo County Enterprise Board at 071 914 4779 or e-mail: info@sligoenterprise.ie. Places on the programme are limited. 
