business
{  
    November 30 2019 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/article38725151.ece }
The 2019 Business Excellence Awards - North East, organised by Drogheda & District Chamber, proved a huge success at CityNorth Hotel on Saturday, attended by over 400 people, with 200 business entries and 75 Finalists across 22 award categories . Drogheda Chamber President Shona McManus said they were delighted to host the 15th Annual Business Excellence Awards and to celebrate the Chamber's 125th Anniversary, on a night that saw Gerry Kelly, LMFM presenter, host the evening for the 5th year running. Full of networking, glitz and glamour business success was celebrated across new and well established small, medium and large enterprises from the Greater Drogheda region and beyond. A packed attendance with dignitaries and special guests including Deputy Mayor Michelle Hall, Joan Martin Chief Executive, Louth County Council and Aidan McKenna Enterprise Ireland to name but a few were present to hear the winners announced. Before the winners were announced, Shona reflected on the 125 years which the Chamber have served the Greater Drogheda business community - witnessing two World Wars, Ireland becoming an independent nation and some dramatic changes through the years in the types of business, commerce and industry the Chamber support and represent. Drogheda Chamber; its Presidents; Council Members and Members have played a pivotal role in the growth of businesses and employment across Drogheda, which is now Ireland's largest town and the wider region. Shona stated that 'On the back of all the previous hard work, dedication and solid foundations built to date combined with our pure ambition, enterprising spirit, leadership and passion for elevating Drogheda, the wider region and the recently launched M1 Corridor, 2019 has been a strong year of collaboration, progress and 'wins' in driving Drogheda and the greater region forward towards strong sustainable economic development, growth, advancing business, retail and tourism and ensuring strong local job creation and place making for today and into the future'. Shona also paid tribute to the leadership and contribution made by Past Presidents and current local leaders whilst remembering the late Vincent Hoey and Cllr Oliver Tully who epitomized the energy, passion and drive for our area. This year the awards were revitalised to further professionalise and modernise the process and bring them to a world class standard. Applicants for the Awards were assessed by an independent highly experienced judging panel, chaired by Geraldine King, Director of NRF. As always, the judges were faced with difficult decisions. Shona McManus, Chamber President, expressed delight at the huge interest shown by businesses across the North East and congratulated both the winners and all other participating businesses, wishing them continued success. "We are very grateful to the adjudicating panel for volunteering their time and expertise. Once again, they found the submissions to be of a very high standard and it was encouraging to see many new entrants this year across the 22 categories. ' For the 1st time this year all entrants will be able to avail of specific feedback and bench marking following the awards process to help them with their applications for next year's awards. This feedback and benchmarking may also aid their business planning and strategy process for development and growth", she said. Shona also stated that 'The Business Excellence Awards recognize, reward and celebrate business excellence in our communities, and we are truly delighted to once again be supported in this endeavor by an extensive range of prestige sponsors, led by our Premier Sponsor Flogas, that make this very important evening for business possible. In addition to the Business Excellence Awards, Padraic Kierans was awarded this year's prestigious Lifetime Achievement Award, which was presented on the night by Premier Sponsor, John Rooney, MD of Flogas Ireland. Padraic is the Managing Director of Anglo Printers, a former President of Drogheda Chamber who was key in securing FDI for Drogheda along with successfully helping to secure the Fleadh Cheoil nah Eireann in 2018 and 2019 and being one of the key leaders in ensuring the Fleadh Cheoil's subsequent phenomenal success. The evening also included for the first time 3 Local Heroes Awards where the Chamber President and Council paid special tribute and presented an award to Frank Godfrey for his lifetimes work and dedication to Drogheda, Aoife Ruane of Highlanes Gallery for her leadership and education in arts and culture and Geoff Fitzpatrick of Fitz Scientific for his drive and leadership with his teams in successfully achieving BID's and Purple Flag for Drogheda. Chamber President Shona McManus concluded by congratulating all 75 finalists and each award winner. . She also thanked all participants; the adjudicating panel, sponsors and attendees for their support in the biggest Business Excellence Awards to date with a special thanks to the Chamber Office team - Irene, Brenda, Sandra and Fergal supported by Karen Healy for arranging such a successful and special event. Shona encouraged businesses in the Drogheda and wider region to avail of the many relevant activities and events organised throughout the year by the Chamber with the next event, the Annual Christmas Lunch which will be held in the Westcourt Hotel on 12th December with special guest speakers from Great Place to Work. SME of the Year (1 - 10 employees): Winner - Studio Wax. Sponsor - First Citizen Finance SME of the Year (11 - 50 employees): Winner - E Finnegan & Sons. Sponsor - Scotch Hall Shopping Centre SME of the Year (50 + employees): Winner -WaterWipes. Sponsor - Irish Cement Health & Fitness Award Winner: allpets veterinary hospital. Sponsor - BD Medical Beauty Salon of the Year: Winner - West End Hair & Beauty. Sponsor - WaterWipes Best Café / Coffee Shop Five Good Things CaféMcCloskey's Bakery Best Dining Experience: Winner - TRIBE Restaurant. Sponsor - Nature's Best Best Hotel of the Year: Winner - CityNorth Hotel. Sponsor - Yapstone Best Marketing & Social Media Award: Winner - WaterWipes. Sponsor - Anglo Printers Best Not for Profit Organisation: Winner - Drogheda Alzheimer's. Sponsor - Drogheda Credit Union Employee Development & Training: Winner - Paycheck Plus. Sponsor - Hanley Energy Tourism Award: Winner - Slane Castle. Sponsor - Louth County Council Family Business of the Year: Winner - Hodgins Hair Design. Sponsor - Bank of Ireland Start-Up of the Year: Winner - Izmoo. Sponsor - Local Enterprise Office Louth Retailer of the Year: Winner - Tresses and Talons. Sponsor - AIB Best Professional Services Paycheck Plus Indaver Fleadh Award: Winner - Louth Volunteer Centre. Sponsor -Osborne CSR Award: Winner - Anglo Printers. Sponsor - State Street Lifetime Achievement Award: Winner - Padraic Kierans. Sponsor - Flogas Ireland Hair Salon of the Year: Winner - Hodgins Hair Design. Sponsor - Permanent TSB Best Pub of the Year: Winner - Barlows Railway Tavern. Sponsor - Drogheda & District Chamber People's Choice: Winner - New You Skin & Beauty Clinic. Sponsor - Glanbia Drogheda Independent 
