business
{ Brendan O'Connor 
    February 07 2010 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/brendan-oconnor-dont-knock-the-very-lifeblood-of-irish-economy-26630009.html }
It is now a tradition that the Taoiseach wows us once a year at the Dublin Chamber of Commerce dinner by speaking in a passionate manner and without notes for anything up to four hours -- well, 20 minutes at least. He did it again on Thursday evening, galvanising the nation and invoking the spirit of 1916. He also mentioned in the course of his speech that 130,000 people lost their jobs in the last year. It's a fairly raw, staggering number. Every working day in the past 12 months, 500 people have lost their jobs, 500 families devastated every day. And losing your job is not like it used to be. Because nowadays there are no other jobs to go to and those losing their jobs are unlikely to have any equity built up in their house or anywhere else. Losing your job now is a recipe for despair, for losing your home, for being thrown on the scrap heap. The Taoiseach defended his Government's efforts on behalf of those losing their jobs by pointing out that it was spending €900m a year on retraining the unemployed. Not surprisingly, he did not mention the report in the business section of this paper a few weeks ago, which revealed that one expensive government jobs scheme was creating just one job a day. Not much of a dent in the 500 a day being lost. Given that he was talking to business people, the Taoiseach might have done well to recall the importance of the entrepreneurial class right now. It has become fashionable to knock business people and tar them all with the same brush as gambling bankers and developers. But unlike many bankers and even developers, small business people tend to create value. They tend to make products, provide services. They don't make money by sitting around hoping property prices will go up, or land will get rezoned. They run shops, or little factories, or garages, or eating houses. And they tend to graft at it every day. And they provide a lot of real jobs in the so- called real economy. In fact, small and medium enterprises provide more than two- thirds of all the jobs in the EU. In this country, one-in-three jobs is in a so-called micro-enterprise. And those jobs are spread throughout every community in Ireland. Jobs in SMEs (small-to-medium enterprises) are the lifeblood of the real economy. That's your hairdresser, who gets paid and buys an outfit to go out on Saturday night; your mechanic, who still buys a breakfast roll and a paper every morning; your office worker, who buys a coffee every morning, a few pints at the weekend, maybe a meal out and a holiday once or twice a year. It was the short-circuiting of this network that put Budget Travel out of business, that is putting so many pubs and restaurants out of business, that is devastating the retail sector. The small business sector is a whole ecosystem that spans the country, that feeds on itself and is made up of millions of interdependent little relationships. You cut off one of its limbs and the whole suffers. And right now, that whole ecosystem is suffering and its malaise is being contracted by every town and village in the country. The small business sector has never felt particularly loved in this country. But in the last 10 years it has felt even more neglected. In the Noughties, any eejit could walk into a bank and get millions to gamble on property, but bankers didn't tend to want to know so much about a guy selling bread, or making things, or providing the little day-to-day services that make a community function. Property was sexy. More creative businesses, in the sense of businesses that actually created products or services -- boring stuff like that -- were a bit of a mug's game. Even pubs and restaurants were often seen only in terms of property plays. The mundane business itself was of no interest, but the location and the value of the lease made owning anything that had a roof over its head a no-brainer. If you had to play around with selling pints too, well, whatever. Even before the Celtic Tiger and the national fetishisation of property, there was never much capital available for small businesses. They tended not to have access to traditional sources of venture capital, tending to rely on their own ingenuity at raising a few quid however they could -- their own savings, the BES (Business Expansion Scheme), Enterprise Boards, friends -- and tending to keep going largely by using their overdraft as working capital. About half of businesses surveyed by county and city enterprise boards around the country now say they are being treated worse by their banks than they were last summer. Most of these guys aren't looking for much. They are not looking for the kinds of huge loans developers got. They are not looking for huge injections of capital to expand. Most of them are looking for an overdraft to get through the next month. Lots of them have had a tough January. Lots of them saw business down by up to 90 per cent in the recent cold weather. But they are viable businesses, and they are providing real jobs. They just need an overdraft, which they are, of course, paying for, to keep them afloat. The difference between an enterprise surviving or not can be very little, and these days that difference usually comes down to cash flow. When you hear about 1,400 firms -- about six every working day -- going under last year, you might automatically think that all these businesses went under because they weren't viable businesses. In fact, that's not the case. Lots of these businesses would still be with us if they had access to a line of credit from the bank. Lots of these businesses were profitable, viable businesses, they just had cash-flow issues and the bank wouldn't see them through it. The banks' refusal to extend credit will often have little to do with the business in question. Usually it will have had more to do with the banks' own issues -- with massive errors of judgement made by the banks during the boom. As John Kelly, ex-Central Bank, observed in last Friday's Irish Times: "Banks may have lent too much in an era of ineffective regulation. It is important that the pendulum should not swing too far in the opposite direction. If SMEs cannot obtain adequate finance, the cost will be slower growth and higher unemployment." Of course, the banks claim that they are lending just as much and as enthusiastically to small businesses as they ever were. But ask any business person and they will tell you this is simply not true. So somebody is not telling the truth here. The real dirty little secret here could be that the banks don't have any money to lend to anyone. Barack Obama has earmarked small business as central to the recovery in the US. Small businesses, and the brave people who risk everything to run them, are central to sustaining life in this country too. If main streets in every town in Ireland start shutting down it will only add to the paralysis, the despair and the decay that is now becoming an actual physical feature on our landscape. Obama has also identified the availability of credit as central to sustaining small businesses in America. Hence his latest plan, which is to divert money from Tarp, the US bank bailout, to make it available cheaply to local banks in America, on the condition that they use this money to extend credit to small businesses. In Ireland, it was supposed to be a condition of the bank guarantee scheme that credit would continue to flow to small businesses. Ask any small business person who, like the rest of us, feels they are paying for the bank bailout, if they think this condition is being met. One businessman, who has practically no debt and runs a number of very successful cash businesses, told me last week that he can't get an overdraft of €200,000 from his bank. This is despite the fact that he only has about a quarter-of-a-million debt on an empire worth millions and that he was offering the bank a personal guarantee. In fact, he said personal guarantees were practically a minimum requirement to get anything out of a bank these days. Another guy, a well-know businessman, said he wasn't even allowed to open a new business account last week. Lots of small business people will tell you that the banks are effectively closed for business. If the Taoiseach had wanted to really wow the Chamber of Commerce the other night, he might have told them that people running businesses in this country would, from now on, be treated like the heroes they were, would be treated with the same reverence and flexibility with which we greet any Yank who comes here to set up in business. He might have told them that we recognise that jobs are the way to heal the sickness in this country, that local business people are the ones most likely to create jobs right now, that they are the primary drivers of the domestic economy. But then, he would have been lying. Because this Government does not seem to revere the domestic economy. Sometimes you have to wonder if it even respects the domestic economy. It's easy to knock business people as chancers and capitalist pigs and fat cats and whatever. In fact, most of them have put everything they have on the line, admittedly for selfish reasons, but with the knock-on effect of creating a sustainable domestic economy in Ireland. Even if we don't respect business people for that, selfishness should dictate that we keep them alive, if only to keep ourselves alive. Sunday Independent 
