business
{  
    July 15 2010 10:25 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/lifestyle/phelims-taste-for-culinary-success-27855156.html }
IT'S NOT EVERY cook that can lay claim to making a sandwich for Bono – but Phelim Byrne has buttered a batch loaf for the U2 frontman in his time. 'I was working away in the Dunbrody House Hotel one day when Bono just walked into the kitchen and asked for a sandwich,' says the affable chef, who shares his recipes in this newspaper's 24-Seven magazine each week. Bono is just one of a long line of wellknown faces who have chowed down on a plateful from Phelim. Health Minister Mary Harney is a fan, while he's also cooked for former Miss World Rosanna Davison and served canapés to President McAleese. Phelim has come a long way from the days when he'd sit watching shows like Masterchef on TV, wishing he was a kitchen pro. The son of Eileen and the late Felie Byrne from Ballyroe, near Blackwater in Wexford, Phelim was brought up in a typical rural family of six kids. While his mum, a retired school teacher, put hearty square meals in front of the family, Phelim doesn't think his mum is directly responsible for his insatiable love of fine food. In fact, he can't lay his finger on where his desire to be a chef started. 'I suppose it must have come from watching chefs on TV. I would sit and watch them for hours when I was younger. When most kids aspired to be soccer players, I wanted to be a chef,' he said. Earnest about his goal, Phelim went straight into training at Kelly's Hotel in Rosslare after he left school. It was the perfect grounding – a place where he learned essential skills that would stand to him throughout his career. Phelim has high praise for Kelly's, where young trainees are not only paid enough 'to have a couple of pints up in Brady's after a service', but are trained in all kitchen disciplines from entrées to pastries. 'We would spend time in the bakehouse, then the larder, then the starter section, then desserts. By the time we were finished we'd worked our way around the entire kitchen,' he said. This gold star training helped him earn a full-time post in the five-star Park Hotel in Kenmare, before he moved back closer to home and was appointed head chef at the Dunbrody Country House Hotel and Restaurant. It was at the Dunbrody he came in close contact with his good friend Kevin Dundon – the celebrity TV chef, and cookery school owner who inspired Phelim to follow a similar career path. During his four-year tenure at Dunbrody, Phelim saw his kitchen earn several accolades including a Gold Ribbon from the RAC; the best breakfast in Ireland award; the Bushmills Restaurant of the Year, and the Food and Wine Magazine best restaurant in Ireland. Medals, praise and accolades, however, have always been heaped on Phelim, who earned a valuable four-month scholarship to train in the United States in 2001. The scholarship, valued at $27,000 at the time, elevated his cooking to an exceptional standard and gave him an extra confidence in his culinary skills. This wasn't his only foray into the United States, and while working with Kevin Dundon he was flown out stateside to cater at a variety of events and openings in Las Vegas, New York and Boston. Now, aged 30, Phelim is building his own brand – using his own name as a mark of excellence. Based at the Wexford Enterprise Centre, he now operates the Phelim Byrne Professional Catering Services and the Phelim Byrne Cookery Academy. The main part of his business is supplying professional on-site catering. These aren't any old pigs-in-blankets, or onions and pineapple on cocktail stick skewers. He brings the fine dining experience to his plates, whether he's catering at an intimate dinner; hosting a buffet, or handing out canapés at a corporate affair. His kitchen confidence also makes him a great tutor, and his cookery academy courses are much in demand. And it's not just the housewives, flocking to his many charity demonstrations, who are smitten by his relaxed teaching style. 'We are getting a lot of fellas coming to the cookery courses. Especially when we do specific courses like seafood, or thai cooking.' He laughs that male students can often be more inquisitive than the ladies. 'Women cook every day, so they are used to it. Some of the men who come on the courses don't, so they want to know about every single aspect of cooking a dish. They want to do it right. They want a Michelin star,' he said. Outside of his school, Phelim has designed budget menus for corporate groups like Musgraves, and is a weekly columnist for Independent Newspapers regional publications. Most recently, his career has brought him in front of the TV cameras, and earlier this year he filled several cooking slots on the popular RTÉ Afternoon Show. It was an experience that Phelim loved, and would like more of. 'I absolutely loved it. It took a while waiting forme to get the opportunity and when I did, I loved it.' He is particularly proud that he comes across as a natural behind the lens, but he also gets a chance to promote locally grown home spun produce. 'I managed to get the produce of 13 Wexford suppliers into two dishes on one of the segments I did. It was great,' he said. While Phelim would like more TV time, he isn't quite ready yet to become a Rachel Allen and produce for the food network channels in the UK. He doesn't rule out the possibility, but he's got cook books and other engagements to consider first. His most pressing commitment looms next month. In mid-August Phelim will step away from the cooker and allow another chef to cater one of the most important days of his life – his wedding to Hungarianborn fiancée Ivette. He first met Ivette when she came to Ireland six years ago and he was working in the Dunbrody. 'When she landed I got her,' he smiled mis- chieveously, adding that they now live in Gorey, half way between Phelim's business in Wexford and Ivette's job in Bank of Ireland Finance in Ballsbridge. Unlike the expansive marquee weddings that Phelim himself caters, his own wedding day will be simple traditional Hungarian fare, tempered a little to suit the Irish palates. 'All of the family are coming over to Hungary for the wedding. We've found a little hotel for the day, where the chef is very good. We're just going to have a tasting menu of classic Hungarian foods, and it's in the middle of the wine region so that will be flowing.' Phelim is taking a three-week break for the wedding, the longest holiday he's ever had in his 13-year career. 'It's the longest I've ever been off,' he said, adding that even Christmas Day is a working day for him: 'I always work on Christmas day. We do lot of food preparation for people who have busy lifestyles. It's one of our busiest periods,' he said. However, he always ensures he gets back home to Blackwater to cook the Christmas dinner for his mum, and siblings Michael, Liz, John, Helena and Therese. 'I like to cook on Christmas day. I am never asked to do it, I want to do it. And besides, I arrive with half of the food cooked already,' he laughed. Phelim also likes to cook for Ivette. While he describes his home cooked fare as 'leftovers', for most of us the plates he whips up are restaurant standard. 'Ok, I'll admit that myself and Ivette do eat very well. I do like to cook up to restaurant standard at home.' It's no wonder that his friends like to call around and socialise in his home. 'I like to go to restaurants, but I think I've only been to three in the last year. I'm either working and I'm so busy, or I have friends around at home.' His hectic lifestyle is exhausting, and he's forever trying to improve himself or the business: 'I'm the type of fella who goes to bed with a cook book.' Developing the business is also an ongoing mission. 'I did a start-your-own-business course initially. I knew my way around the kitchen, but there are a lot of elements to starting a business.' His eagerness to learn has stood to him and he was a national finalist of the Shell Livewire Young Entrepreneur of the Year Competition in 2007. In the same year he won the Best New Start Up Business and this year was short listed for the Wexford County Enterprise Board Small Business Award last June. Last year Phelim also represented Fáilte Ireland as a judge for the World Skills Olympics. While Phelim misses the high-energy buzz of service – a thrill that comes nightly when you are a head chef – he has no real desire to be tied to a restaurant. He enjoys the catering side of his business, where he brings his food to clients, rather than waiting for them to walk through his doors. Ultimately, as a retirement plan, he'd like to have his own boutique guesthouse, where deluxe casual dining experiences for guests would be part of the package. In the meantime, he's focused on making sure that every crumb that leaves his kitchen is mouth-watering and good. 'My name is on everything. When a steak leaves my kitchen it's not just any steak, it's a Phelim Byrne steak. If it's not good, I have a problem. My name is on every morsel.' IT'S NOT EVERY cook that can lay claim to making a sandwich for Bono – but Phelim Byrne has buttered a batch loaf for the U2 frontman in his time. 'I was working away in the Dunbrody House Hotel one day when Bono just walked into the kitchen and asked for a sandwich,' says the affable chef, who shares his recipes in this newspaper's 24-Seven magazine each week. Bono is just one of a long line of wellknown faces who have chowed down on a plateful from Phelim. Health Minister Mary Harney is a fan, while he's also cooked for former Miss World Rosanna Davison and served canapés to President McAleese. Phelim has come a long way from the days when he'd sit watching shows like Masterchef on TV, wishing he was a kitchen pro. The son of Eileen and the late Felie Byrne from Ballyroe, near Blackwater in Wexford, Phelim was brought up in a typical rural family of six kids. While his mum, a retired school teacher, put hearty square meals in front of the family, Phelim doesn't think his mum is directly responsible for his insatiable love of fine food. In fact, he can't lay his finger on where his desire to be a chef started. 'I suppose it must have come from watching chefs on TV. I would sit and watch them for hours when I was younger. When most kids aspired to be soccer players, I wanted to be a chef,' he said. Earnest about his goal, Phelim went straight into training at Kelly's Hotel in Rosslare after he left school. It was the perfect grounding – a place where he learned essential skills that would stand to him throughout his career. Phelim has high praise for Kelly's, where young trainees are not only paid enough 'to have a couple of pints up in Brady's after a service', but are trained in all kitchen disciplines from entrées to pastries. 'We would spend time in the bakehouse, then the larder, then the starter section, then desserts. By the time we were finished we'd worked our way around the entire kitchen,' he said. This gold star training helped him earn a full-time post in the five-star Park Hotel in Kenmare, before he moved back closer to home and was appointed head chef at the Dunbrody Country House Hotel and Restaurant. It was at the Dunbrody he came in close contact with his good friend Kevin Dundon – the celebrity TV chef, and cookery school owner who inspired Phelim to follow a similar career path. During his four-year tenure at Dunbrody, Phelim saw his kitchen earn several accolades including a Gold Ribbon from the RAC; the best breakfast in Ireland award; the Bushmills Restaurant of the Year, and the Food and Wine Magazine best restaurant in Ireland. Medals, praise and accolades, however, have always been heaped on Phelim, who earned a valuable four-month scholarship to train in the United States in 2001. The scholarship, valued at $27,000 at the time, elevated his cooking to an exceptional standard and gave him an extra confidence in his culinary skills. This wasn't his only foray into the United States, and while working with Kevin Dundon he was flown out stateside to cater at a variety of events and openings in Las Vegas, New York and Boston. Now, aged 30, Phelim is building his own brand – using his own name as a mark of excellence. Based at the Wexford Enterprise Centre, he now operates the Phelim Byrne Professional Catering Services and the Phelim Byrne Cookery Academy. The main part of his business is supplying professional on-site catering. These aren't any old pigs-in-blankets, or onions and pineapple on cocktail stick skewers. He brings the fine dining experience to his plates, whether he's catering at an intimate dinner; hosting a buffet, or handing out canapés at a corporate affair. His kitchen confidence also makes him a great tutor, and his cookery academy courses are much in demand. And it's not just the housewives, flocking to his many charity demonstrations, who are smitten by his relaxed teaching style. 'We are getting a lot of fellas coming to the cookery courses. Especially when we do specific courses like seafood, or thai cooking.' He laughs that male students can often be more inquisitive than the ladies. 'Women cook every day, so they are used to it. Some of the men who come on the courses don't, so they want to know about every single aspect of cooking a dish. They want to do it right. They want a Michelin star,' he said. Outside of his school, Phelim has designed budget menus for corporate groups like Musgraves, and is a weekly columnist for Independent Newspapers regional publications. Most recently, his career has brought him in front of the TV cameras, and earlier this year he filled several cooking slots on the popular RTÉ Afternoon Show. It was an experience that Phelim loved, and would like more of. 'I absolutely loved it. It took a while waiting forme to get the opportunity and when I did, I loved it.' He is particularly proud that he comes across as a natural behind the lens, but he also gets a chance to promote locally grown home spun produce. 'I managed to get the produce of 13 Wexford suppliers into two dishes on one of the segments I did. It was great,' he said. While Phelim would like more TV time, he isn't quite ready yet to become a Rachel Allen and produce for the food network channels in the UK. He doesn't rule out the possibility, but he's got cook books and other engagements to consider first. His most pressing commitment looms next month. In mid-August Phelim will step away from the cooker and allow another chef to cater one of the most important days of his life – his wedding to Hungarianborn fiancée Ivette. He first met Ivette when she came to Ireland six years ago and he was working in the Dunbrody. 'When she landed I got her,' he smiled mis- chieveously, adding that they now live in Gorey, half way between Phelim's business in Wexford and Ivette's job in Bank of Ireland Finance in Ballsbridge. Unlike the expansive marquee weddings that Phelim himself caters, his own wedding day will be simple traditional Hungarian fare, tempered a little to suit the Irish palates. 'All of the family are coming over to Hungary for the wedding. We've found a little hotel for the day, where the chef is very good. We're just going to have a tasting menu of classic Hungarian foods, and it's in the middle of the wine region so that will be flowing.' Phelim is taking a three-week break for the wedding, the longest holiday he's ever had in his 13-year career. 'It's the longest I've ever been off,' he said, adding that even Christmas Day is a working day for him: 'I always work on Christmas day. We do lot of food preparation for people who have busy lifestyles. It's one of our busiest periods,' he said. However, he always ensures he gets back home to Blackwater to cook the Christmas dinner for his mum, and siblings Michael, Liz, John, Helena and Therese. 'I like to cook on Christmas day. I am never asked to do it, I want to do it. And besides, I arrive with half of the food cooked already,' he laughed. Phelim also likes to cook for Ivette. While he describes his home cooked fare as 'leftovers', for most of us the plates he whips up are restaurant standard. 'Ok, I'll admit that myself and Ivette do eat very well. I do like to cook up to restaurant standard at home.' It's no wonder that his friends like to call around and socialise in his home. 'I like to go to restaurants, but I think I've only been to three in the last year. I'm either working and I'm so busy, or I have friends around at home.' His hectic lifestyle is exhausting, and he's forever trying to improve himself or the business: 'I'm the type of fella who goes to bed with a cook book.' Developing the business is also an ongoing mission. 'I did a start-your-own-business course initially. I knew my way around the kitchen, but there are a lot of elements to starting a business.' His eagerness to learn has stood to him and he was a national finalist of the Shell Livewire Young Entrepreneur of the Year Competition in 2007. In the same year he won the Best New Start Up Business and this year was short listed for the Wexford County Enterprise Board Small Business Award last June. Last year Phelim also represented Fáilte Ireland as a judge for the World Skills Olympics. While Phelim misses the high-energy buzz of service – a thrill that comes nightly when you are a head chef – he has no real desire to be tied to a restaurant. He enjoys the catering side of his business, where he brings his food to clients, rather than waiting for them to walk through his doors. Ultimately, as a retirement plan, he'd like to have his own boutique guesthouse, where deluxe casual dining experiences for guests would be part of the package. In the meantime, he's focused on making sure that every crumb that leaves his kitchen is mouth-watering and good. 'My name is on everything. When a steak leaves my kitchen it's not just any steak, it's a Phelim Byrne steak. If it's not good, I have a problem. My name is on every morsel.' 
