business
{ Paul McCarthy 
    March 30 2010 03:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/how-to-avoid-nightmares-when-setting-up-in-business-26645326.html }
There are a lot of priorities when starting a business -- everything from market research to sourcing equipment, product manufacture to finance and promotion. However, failure to consider all the necessary legalities at an early stage can be a major headache and may cost you dearly down the road. Helena Boylan, of Boylan and Co Solicitors from Westport, Co Mayo, has been operating a general legal practice since 2002. The practice deals with conveyancing, litigation, probate, family and commercial law. She identified the 10 most common legal pitfalls that new businesses need to avoid.  Legal structure If you choose the wrong kind of legal structure for your business, it can result in a myriad of problems in later years. It is a good idea to speak to your accountant and your solicitor and take their advice before you start your new venture. The choices include: sole trader, limited liability company and business partnership. Each option has its own advantages and disadvantages.  Sole Trader  Limited liability company  Business partnership If a business partnership breaks down, one does not want to end up fighting over who is entitled to what. That can result in very costly court bills for the parties concerned.  Title deeds for security for borrowings In a farm context, when someone is setting up an on-farm business, they may need to apply for a loan and related finance facilities. The institution may ask for the title deeds of the holding as security for any borrowing. This can put the entire holding at risk if the venture gets into difficulty. If the bank is agreeable, it may be useful to consider opening a separate folio for the property being used for the new venture, and to only provide these title deeds as the security for the new venture.  Issues with the Revenue Commissioners and taxation One of the most important things to remember, when setting up your new business venture is that you have obligations at law to file tax returns and to register yourself with the Revenue.  Sole trader  Limited liability company Failure to file your company's returns with the Companies Office may result in the company being struck off. It can be a very costly exercise to apply to have the company reinstated.  Breaches of environmental law provisions You need to consider whether or not you need to obtain planning permission. A common pitfall made is that sometimes people assume because a premises has been used for a commercial purpose in the past that it will automatically be in order to use it for another purpose. That is not necessarily the case. Contact the local authority to find out whether or not you need to apply for planning permission for a particular type of use for the premises. Determine whether or not you need to comply with building control regulations or fire regulations. If you intend building a new structure the same criteria apply. Find out whether or not you may be liable to pay betterment levies and factor these into the set-up costs. Do your research in advance. Failure to do your research properly could result in the need to pay for an application for retention permission. This may not be granted by the local authority or it could result in the local authority serving an enforcement notice upon you with possible consequent fines. You may also need to obtain a licence from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in respect of waste, industrial or other activities.  Employment law As you are considering setting up your business, you need to consider what your obligations will be as an employer. You are obliged to provide a contract for your employees. Failure to have a well-drafted contract of employment that can assist in the smooth operation of your business could have serious consequences. You are obliged to comply with the many pieces of legislation in respect of your employees.  Product liability From trailers to food products, if you are producing goods you will have obligations to the people that you are supplying them to. You may be liable for dangerous or defective goods produced by you and may be liable to the consumer. It is important to put good quality control systems in place to ensure that quality is checked and controlled and that you use appropriate recognised standards.  The law of negligence Personal injury claims can be made against you as an employer if you are shown to have been negligent. You should provide proper training to your employees to avoid accidents in the workplace. Ensure that they complete manual handling courses or safe pass courses for example, where appropriate. Keep a safety statement and review it and ensure that you keep the appropriate insurance policies in place. Comply with health and safety guidelines.  Creating nuisance The forms of nuisance are very wide and some examples of these are noise, emissions from property to adjacent properties, discharges of water or fluids onto another property. It is important to think this through when considering where you are going to locate your business. A person can be guilty of creating a nuisance which affects third parties and it may make the creator of the nuisance liable to payment of damages.  Failing to understand and deal with intellectual property rights It is important to complete the appropriate searches before you spend a lot of money investing in any new idea or concept. By completing the relevant searches you can find out whether or not someone has already created the item/idea or has already obtained the patent or trademark. Intellectual property rights take many forms. The most common forms are: trademarks, which are a form of mark that is immediately recognisable to identify the owner or creator of the goods; patents on something you have invented; and copyright and design registration. It's crucial that you deal with these matters before you start your business. If you have a registered trademark, that can provide a right to sue for an infringement of the trademark. If you have invented something, it may be important to apply for a patent to protect what is a valuable asset.  Insurance Adequate insurance, especially in the case of farm-based businesses, is vital. Do you need to take out public liability insurance to cover accidents to third parties? Do you need employer liability insurance to cover employees, even if they are only part-time? Are you leasing your business premises? Do you need to have an office policy of insurance and insurance to cover business interruption or liability to pay rent in the event of flood damage or fire? Do you need buildings insurance? Do you need directors' liability insurance? Do you need product liability insurance? You should ask these questions before you set up your business and factor the costs into your business plan. Helena Boylan can be contacted at 098 29835 or on email at haboylan@eircom.net Irish Independent 
