business
{  
    May 13 2016 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/localnotes/business-workshops-to-be-rolled-out-across-libraries-34698310.html }
A series of business information workshops and other business services are to be rolled out through Fingal Libraries.  Co-ordinated by the Fingal Local Enterprise Office (LEO), the initiative ill enable small businesses in the region to access valuable information and business advice directly from their local library. The first will take place at Blanchardstown Library on Tuesday, May 17 and will provide a confidential advisory service for anyone seeking to start-up a new business in the area.  In addition, workshops geared at helping new start-ups to access information will be provided.  Betty Boardman, Fingal acting County Librarian welcomed the initiative: 'The Business, Enterprise and Employment Centre at Blanchardstown Library together with Europe Direct, supports local economic initiatives and developments by providing meeting spaces, information resources and networking opportunities for  anyone starting or growing a business.' A broad range of accessible courses, workshops and business clinics are provided by Fingal LEO to those thinking of or currently running small businesses.  It is planned to make these supports even more accessible with the help of the Library Services by running a number of Business Advice Clinics in several  other libraries.  Oisin Geoghegan, Head of Enterprise in Fingal, emphasised the importance of being able to access business information locally: 'Whether you are already in business or starting a new business you need to be able to access information and supports as easily as possible. Libraries provide a great opportunity for us to ensure that local people and local businesses can get the help they need on their doorstep".  He continued: 'The Local Enterprise Office has a broad range of supports to help new and existing businesses. By entering into this collaboration our clients will benefit from convenient access to business advice and support services". The business advice clinic is a confidential service open to anyone either considering a new business or those currently operating a small business. To avail of a free advisory clinic it is necessary to make an appointment by calling Fingal Local Enterprise Office on 01-8900 800. Workshops will also be organised to assist those seeking to set up their own business and information is available from the website www.localenterprise.ie/fingal. Fingal Independent 
