business
{ Sean Gallagherr 
    August 11 2013 10:22 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/best-friends-forever-is-the-winning-motto-for-cafe-owners-29489873.html }
BUSINESS advisers everywhere will tell you about the dangers of going into business with a friend. They will suggest that you should decide, from the outset, whether you want to have a friend or a business partner — because, very often in business it is hard to have both. However, college friends Lorraine Heskin and Lorraine Byrne have managed to successfully defy the rule. Together, they set up the Gourmet Food Parlour in Dun Laoghaire, south Dublin, in 2006. During the day, the business operates as a cafe and at night, turns into a trendy tapas bar with live music. Now, seven years later, the pair have added additional cafes in Swords, Malahide and Ballyboughal. In addition, they are currently planning the opening of two more outlets in Dublin and have also just established a separate contract catering business. This year, their annual turnover will reach an impressive €3m and their job numbers will grow from 80, at present, to more than 100 as the new outlets open. With so many restaurants and cafes struggling to survive, I'm keen to discover what secret sauce these two women have that has enabled them expand so consistently. As I arrive to meet the pair in their Swords cafe, I am immediately taken by the charm and style of the place. Wicker baskets hang from the ceiling, while a mix of greens, creams and natural wood colours give the place an earthy feel. The warmth of the decor together with the artisan nature of the menu combine beautifully to create an atmosphere akin to what you might expect to find in places like France or Italy. Around the walls, beautifully crafted sideboards display an extensive range of wines. The bottles have all been perfectly arranged and even the labels are meticulously straight, a real indication of the attention to detail that is evident throughout the cafe. "We focus on quality food and so everything here in the restaurant is made from scratch, every day, on each individual site," stresses Lorraine Heskin. "We also developed a retail element to the cafes so customers can buy all sorts of local artisan foods, such as homemade jams, chutneys and salad dressings," explains Lorraine Byrne. The two Lorraines met in 1994 while they were studying at the University of Limerick. They immediately became best friends and have remained so ever since. They both moved to Dublin, after college, where Lorraine Byrne secured a role in customer service with the International Airport Transport Association while Lorraine Heskin landed a job in logistics with computer giant, IBM. In 2001, Lorraine Heskin moved to New York where she joined Irish Food Distributors Ltd, the largest importer of Irish foods on the east coast of the United States. She later worked as an independent food broker in the US, helping smaller speciality brands break into the retail market there, before eventually returning to Ireland to take up a role with the Jacobs Fruitfield Group. In 2005, they decided that it was time they joined forces and set up their own business. "We actually made the decision while we were out shopping for a dress for Lorraine's wedding," laughs Lorraine Heskin. The pair explored a number of possible business ideas but their shared passion for cafes and delis proved to be the perfect idea on which to base their new venture. And so the Gourmet Food Parlour concept was born. Getting into business wasn't going to be as easy as the two had first imagined. "When we approached the banks for finance we didn't receive a very warm reception," admits Lorraine Byrne. While the pair had put together a convincing business plan, backed up with lots of research about the potential for the business, the banks simply didn't want to know. Although they lacked experience in the cafe business, they had passion, determination and a willingness to work hard. Either way, the banks said no. So too did most landlords whom the pair approached. Eventually, property owner Bob Reid gave them the break they needed when he agreed to lease them space in a quaint old building he owned on Cumberland Street in Dun Laoghaire. And so their dream was now a reality. For the new entrepreneurs though, the first year in business was challenging. It took time to get noticed and to build up their reputation. "Our first year was hard. We had to learn fast in order to survive," explains Lorraine Heskin. "Controlling overheads, getting purchases and stock levels right and managing cash flow was all new to us," she admits. In order to keep overheads down, the pair agreed not to take any wages for the first year and a half and instead put everything they made back into the business. During that time, they were glad to have each other for support. "There were times throughout the first year when each of us had to pull the other through," explains Lorraine Heskin. However, they quickly found their respective roles in the business and both began to play to their individual strengths. Lorraine Heskin took over operations such as deciding on menus, looking after purchasing, sales and marketing while Lorraine Byrne managed finance and administration including wages and staffing issues. Instead of falling out with each other, working together only served to strengthen their relationship. "We have never had a single fight in the last seven years," Lorraine Byrne tells me emphatically. In 2008, the pair opened their second cafe, this time in Swords. A little easier the second time around, it didn't take long for word to spread and they soon found that they had built up a loyal customer base. "We are incredibly grateful for the support we receive from the communities in which we are located," stresses Lorraine Heskin. "It's definitely not something we take for granted". In order to extend business hours and increase turnover, the pair decided to look at opening in the evenings, offering wine and a selection of small food dishes. When their trial night turned out to be a sell-out, they knew that they had hit on a winning formula and began opening the cafes as tapas bars in the evenings. In 2009, the pair were approached by the owners of the Grange Cafe, in Ballyboughal, in north Co Dublin, to see if they would be interested in taking over the place. The two women then added this to their ever expanding portfolio. "We didn't hesitate," explains Lorraine Heskin. "We simply loved the feel of the place." Not content to sit back, their next venture saw them open a cafe in Gannon Park, near the picturesque seaside village of Malahide. With stunning views over the sea, their new addition proved an almost instant hit. Earlier this year, the two spotted a further opportunity for a quality outdoor catering service and so launched the Gourmet Food Parlour Catering Kitchen, catering for private functions, sporting and other events. "It's a different business model," explains Lorraine Heskin. "In the cafe, you open the doors and wait for customers to come in to be served. However with the outside catering business, you literally have to go out and prospect and hustle for business," she adds. But they are pleased with how the business is developing so far. Currently, they are planning to open two more outlets in Dublin. The first will be in partnership with experienced businessman Alan Clancy, and will be part of his new bar and hotel, called House, on Dublin's Leeson Street. The second will be located in the headquarters of one of Ireland's leading computer games retailers, Gamestop, in Swords. The cafe will service the company's 100 or so staff as well as being open to members of the public. Maybe Google, PayPal or Facebook might invite them to open an outlet in their premises, I suggest. "We'd be up for that," the two entrepreneurs respond excitedly. So why do they think they've been so successful? "It really is about getting the basics right," replies Lorraine Byrne. "We offer good food, provided by friendly staff, at affordable prices and in a relaxed atmosphere," she adds. "When you boil it all down, it's all about spreading happiness really, isn't it?" laughs Lorraine Heskin. The pair continuously stress how incredibly proud they are of their staff who, they tell me, are like one big happy family. Regarding families; both women have two young children each. It is a constant balancing act as they try to juggle both work and family life. They are grateful to be able to draw on the support of their husbands, Tom and Alan. "We are very privileged to be able to make a living out of doing something we love. But without the support of our husbands, parents and families, we simply couldn't continue to do what we do," admits Lorraine Heskin. The story of the Gourmet Food Parlour is an inspiring one. It contains much of what being an entrepreneur is all about. Firstly, Lorraine Heskin and Lorraine Byrne chose a business idea based on a sector they were both passionate about. Both were prepared to work really hard, in the certain knowledge that reward only comes after effort. They were ambitious in wanting to grow and expand their business, taking on opportunities with a measured approach. While many partnerships often don't work out well, this is one that clearly has. Online Editors 
