business
{ Donal Lynch 
    November 21 2014 08:59 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/pedigree-son-reynolds-scion-moves-it-up-from-cannery-row-30764558.html }
It's been a bitter-sweet few weeks for Philip Reynolds, the son of former Taoiseach Albert Reynolds and general manager of C&D Longford.  On the one hand, this marks the final stages of a comeback that has been eight years in the making - last week 70 new jobs were announced for C&D Foods' pet food processing facility at Edgeworthstown, Co Longford, which was all but destroyed by fire in 2006. On the other hand, the announcement must have been tinged with sadness because the man who famously watched the blaze with tears in his eyes - Philip's father - is not here to witness this comeback, having died last August after a long battle with Alzheimer's disease. Philip gave a moving and eloquent eulogy at his father's state funeral in which he paid tribute to "a simple, innately good, but brilliant man". "Yeah, it's been a tough year in some ways. A tough eight years really, and of course I wish Dad was here and in the full of his health to see how far we've come," he begins. "Seeing him cry after the fire is etched in my memory," he says. "We basically lost everything on the Edgeworthstown site. "In overall terms we were turning over just north of €100m before the fire and after the fire it was back down to around €20m. "The business in the UK was not sustainable in the long-term as a single entity. So it was either get out of the pet food business completely, or get back in in a meaningful way." A cynic might point out that had they left the business completely the insurance payout would have been considerably lower, but it was ambition rather than fear that persuaded Reynolds to give things another go. At the time of the fire - which started from a faulty washer located outside the building - the main production lines at Edgeworthstown were based around filling empty cans which had been shipped in from Britain with pet food, and then shipping the full cans back to Britain, which is Europe's biggest market for pet food. This was a bit of a dog's dinner of a production process and post-fire it was clear that it would have made more sense to locate the entire facility in Britain. However, the pet food market was changing and Reynolds and his team thought they might be able to capitalise on these changes, while keeping the facility in Ireland. "Instead of leaving, we decided to go into single-serve pouch production, which was a new technology and the fastest growing end of the cat food business. "We'd invested small amounts of money in it up to 2006. It was something that we'd considered as a major point of investment anyway. We invested €40m and it was the largest own-label pouch facility in Europe at that point. "That's what we've extended now with the announcement last week." The pet food industry is bigger than either the breakfast cereal or jam/marmalade industries and it's growing worldwide - it's now worth almost €18bn in the US (from €13bn a decade ago) and €2.5bn in Britain alone. The pet food aisle of the grocery store has seen more change than any other in the last 15 years, with a move away from messy, unhygienic canned products into more expensive single serve pouches. As census after census reveals that more and more of us are living alone, pet ownership has grown exponentially in recent decades. Interestingly, it doesn't seem subject to the same fluctuations that other household goods have seen - Reynolds describes it as "more or less recession-proof". It has also managed to dodge many of the scandals that have dogged - no pun intended - the meat industry generally. "We're subject to the same rules as the human food industry is," Reynolds says. "Our business is a private label business, so we're entrusted with the name of the supermarket who give us permission to put their name on the products we produce. "We don't take that lightly. Every retailer that we deal with has access to our facility. And we provide full traceability from the shelf back to the raw material that is used to produce the food." The British market is generally a good barometer of trends, but the vagaries of pet ownership and the psychology behind it is of more than passing interest. "There are more single people generally than ever before. You have more people living alone as well. Human beings need company - that's just how we're wired. We've noticed that a lot of men tend to own dogs, whereas single ladies gravitate towards cats. That's just the way it seems to break down. "Trends in pet ownership are changing. We're moving to bigger and bigger dogs, but in the UK it is the other way around. Urban areas tend towards cat ownership, and in rural areas dog owners are more prevalent," he says. Ironically it was another fire that sparked the idea for the family pet food business. Albert started the business in 1969 after a blaze at his bacon factory spoiled meat - which then had to be shipped to England to be used as pet food. It became a family business in all senses, with many members of the family working there at one point or another - and it was a major local success story, in time supplying all of the major Irish retailers with own-brand pet food. After Albert became leader of Fianna Fail in the early 1990s, the press dubbed him "the millionaire businessman". His wife, Kathleen, would express some bemusement at this, asking "where do they get these ideas from? If he's making millions from the business, I'd like to see it. I have to budget to get the school and college fees paid". All the Reynolds children, Philip included, attended private school. It would be years after his father left the pet food business before the younger Reynolds would take the helm. "I had joined the business in 1982 from school - I went to school in Roscrea. I was supposed go to the US to college, but the suggestion was that I would spend a year in C&D because we were in the initial phase of a new development. I never left. I studied in IMI for four years at weekends to get my degree. I was 26 in 1990 and on my honeymoon when our CEO at the time said he was resigning," Philip says. "The chase was on for a replacement. Some of the guys in the business urged me to put myself forward - and that's what I did." Despite the older Reynolds' exit from the business he still had a strong association with it. In 1994, when the cash for passports scandal ignited, C&D was drawn into it after it emerged that a wealthy Saudi businessman, Khalid Sabih Masri, had invested £1.1m in the company two years previously as part of a citizenship application under the sale scheme. "It was ridiculous at the time, because it wasn't a scheme that was dreamt up by me or by him," Philip says of the incident. "It was a scheme being used by lots of people for lots of reasons, all of which related to investment in Ireland. And, of course, we got fingered for it because of Dad's connections. "Dad had no idea that we were in conversation about it through KPMG. There are similar schemes in place today, just in different guises. It really was a fuss over nothing." In the years after the passports controversy Philip Reynolds built up the business to the point where it was in a position to begin acquiring some of its smaller rivals. "There had been huge consolidation in the pet food industry," Philip says. "There were a lot of companies that were financially very weak, while we were financially very strong. We targeted them as possible acquisitions. I saw the possibility of expanding the business, and with it achieving fairly fast levels of growth." The fire put paid to all those hopes. Even the €20m turnover that the company had fallen to was "fragile", says Reynolds. The solution was to reduce his shareholding, selling 50pc of C&D Foods to Larry Goodman's ABP group for an undisclosed sum. Goodman, of course, had a colourful history with Albert - both being central figures in the beef tribunal. "I saw the possibility of expanding the business and with it fairly fast levels of growth. Post-fire, that's all gone. We're back to where Dad was when he started in 1969. I wasn't going to be able to do what we needed to do with our own resources or the insurance money, so I had to find a partner who believed in the dream," Reynolds says of the decision. It's a decision that has handsomely paid off. "We were turning over €100m in 2006, this year turnover is €300m, next year we'll look to take that to €350m", Reynolds says. "I couldn't have done that as the 100pc shareholder." While the business recovered well, the last few years were a difficult time for Philip as he took over his father's affairs. But the older man's condition left him vulnerable in business. Reynolds has spoken before about how his father was befriended by "gold diggers" who "took advantage of him" during his decline. Some of the decisions the former Taoiseach made did not make sense, Reynolds says. There were land deals that "ended in tears" - and in the end it was up to family members to intervene and ensure no more money was lost. He is circumspect when I ask if he personally lost much in the last few years. "I was always OK. Personal wealth doesn't mean much to me. I'm comfortable and I'm very lucky to be able to say that. But, personally I don't see the value in letting the wealthy get wealthier. I wouldn't mind paying more tax if it meant a better Ireland for everyone." Spoken like a man with political blood flowing through his veins. Still, you get the feeling that business savvy rather than the political acumen has primacy in the Reynolds cortex. He's been approached to get into politics and doesn't rule it out entirely. "But my focus now is growing this business. We want to grow toward €500m. There has been attention around this announcement like it's been the end of a long hard road. And it has been. But in another way it's only the beginning." 'I WOULDN'T EAT PET FOOD, BUT IT IS EDIBLE' If I could give any advice to my youthful self… "that's a good question because I have a son now who is that age. I'd say go and finish college - which I didn't do - they are years you won't have again." One of the most important aspects of our business is... "quality control. Our food is such a high standard. I wouldn't eat the pet food myself, but the highest standards of ingredients go into it - it is edible." The best gift I've received recently is… "I'm not a receiver. I have my big birthday coming up in a month's time. I'm going to be 50. The best present I could get would be dinner with my wife and three children. "If there's anything that people in the Reynolds family have in common it's maybe the entrepreneurial gene? The three brothers [his father and uncles] set up ballrooms and bingo sessions all around the country. "And John Reynolds [his cousin the impresario] is another great example. He's one of the most creative people you'll ever meet. And, sure, that has to come from somewhere!" Sunday Indo Business 
