business
{  
    April 13 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/innovations-at-dairygold-will-bring-prosperity-27053587.html }
IN an animated address to shareholders at the Dairygold AGM in Cork on Monday, chief executive, Mr Jerry Henchy described the Co-Op’s 2004 performance as a year of solid progress– “a foundation” he said, “upon which we must now move forward with determination and confidence to build a world class business, a business which will be competitive, innovative and profitable in its operations and activity”. Shareholders attending the AGM were told that the society had bravely confronted big challenges in the last two years and that much progress had been made in redefining the business for the future. Describing the year past, Mr Henchy said “we have successfully reduced costs, doubled r&d spend, strengthened the management skills of the business and implemented significant rule change which allows for better conduct of the business and greater speed in the decision-making process within the business. “In addition we have made steady progress in redefining the work culture in Dairygold in terms of work-practices, performance measures, flexibility and focus and in doing so we are empowering people to enjoy their work and to realise their potential to work to world-class standards.” Mr Henchy said that the various business divisions of the Co-Op were now operating to very clear objectives and sharply focussed business plans. Outlining some keynote realities of the business, Mr Henchy commented that the consumer foods marketplace is extremely challenging and that “Dairygold must continue with its determination to become a competitive leader, a focus which will involve cost reduction, increased productivity and greater innovation.” New products now emerging from the Dairygold consumer foods business, include Dairygold Heart, the first Irish-produced cholesterol reducing spread; Calvita Light, a new variant of processed cheese delivering all the taste with only half the fat; Xtreme, a great-tasting extra mature cheddar cheese; Maple flavoured Galtee Rashers, and a new sinless range of rashers and sausages which will have strong appeal to the ‘weight watchers’ market. Commenting on the Co-Op’s rapidly expanding 4HOME DIY and Homeware business Mr Henchy said, “We have set clear objectives for this business and over the next two years you will see the 4HOME brand name established as a generator of real value to Dairygold as we leverage the strength of the brand and a national presence.” Commenting on the society’s property portfolio, Mr Henchy said that “there are property assets here and there in the business whose potential is not currently realised which offer potential for development. The Society is now carefully studying how best to exploit this potential value cautiously and prudently as the business goes forward.” Mr Henchy noted that a specialist property expertise had now been established by the society, which will trade under the business name of Alchemy Properties. Speaking of the Co-Op’s agri-trading activities, Mr Henchy said, “Our Agri-Trading Division has been streamlined and focused on the supply of lowest cost of farm inputs and sharply focussed services. We are firmly focused on becoming the leading seller of farmer supplies and services when measured in terms of value and customer care. Our objective will be delivered through the achievement of the lowest possible costs, efficient use of resources, technical leadership, a high quality buying capability and superior product and service quality, combined with good customer service and a technically experienced sales force. Each of our company-owned 4HOME stores will retain a dedicated farmer service centre which will ensure that an excellent farmer service continues to be provided in our new flagship stores.” Describing Dairygold’s recently announced co-processing arrangement with Glanbia as “a great advance” Mr Henchy claimed that “the arrangement will reduce milk processing unit costs for both the Dairygold and Glanbia dairy businesses and significantly improve manufacturing efficiencies.” The additional 25 million gallon milk intake into the Mitchelstown plants from April 2006 will improve the efficiency and competitiveness of cheese production in Mitchelstown and safeguard the viability of continuing milk processing in the two existing Dairygold dairy plants in the town.” “We are open to expanding this co-processing framework to look together, or in conjunction with others, for other opportunities which have potential to achieve significant milk processing efficiencies to strengthen our competitive position for the future.” Complementing all involved for the improving performance of the business Mr Henchy said that “progress to-date has been the result of a team effort – team effort on the part of the management, the staff, the Board and the shareholders. The team wearing the Dairygold jersey has now become strong, fit and determined to succeed – and we will succeed in building a diversified and strong business for the future.” Commenting on the rationalisation that was necessary to safeguard the survival of the business Mr. Henchy remarked that “shareholders, staff, customers, suppliers and the communities in which we work are beginning to see the new shoots of fresh and healthy growth. Our future is what we make of it. It substantially lies within our own hands. We can now build on progress to-date to become a world-class business and with vision, investment, unity of purpose among shareholders, management and employees, we can achieve our objectives.” 
