business
{  
    September 14 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/bertie-on-the-ropes-but-fg-business-agenda-lacks-the-right-punch-25930757.html }
IT SEEMS fitting that Fine Gael should bring out a new 'agenda for business' the same day as an Irish Independent opinion poll, because it provides some perspective on where the party is at, and where it might want to go. A poll, which showed that the Government's popularity had fallen dramatically to just 25pc, also showed that Fine Gael was failing to capitalise on the opportunity a faltering government presents. Fine Gael's new agenda for business outlined by party leader Enda Kenny on Friday may shed some light on why the party fails to land the right punches on a government that appears to be on the ropes. Mr Kenny's agenda for business outlines a number of measures he would introduce if he were Taoiseach. Some of them make perfect sense, others are just a wish list for businesses, while others remain completely unrealistic. Raising the audit level for small business to ?3m in turnover seems sound enough - as does the proposal to raise the threshold level at which VAT is collected to ?100,000. These measures would be good for small businesses, but are small beer in terms of the big picture. Freezing charges by profitable monopolistic state utilities is also included. This comes after we have had an 8pc increase in electricity prices and around 9pc in gas prices. Freezing the prices charged by these companies, if something isn't done to curtail their cost base, will only turn them from being profitable to being loss-making. There is no incentive or structure in place to encourage or insist that the ESB, for example, reduce its costs. The same applies to Bord Gáis. If the ESB wants to reduce its costs, it has to pay out around ?250,000 per employee to let staff go. Directing cost cuts at these companies would take away the need for price increases, but it would cost jobs. Fine Gael probably doesn't want to say that. Revisiting benchmarking is also on the agenda for business. Mr Kenny says we should secure real improvements in service before handing over any more money through benchmarking. That is a perfectly reasonable and sound idea. Unfortunately, it is too late. These measures should have been clearly spelt out at the beginning of the process - if there should have been a process at all. Any attempt to revisit will lead to industrial relations anarchy. Fine Gael wants to introduce a system of 'business proofing' new legislation to ensure it doesn't unnecessarily negatively impact on business. Mr Kenny wants to let business 'see the analysis and have their say'. This is a massive sop to business and one which seems wholly unnecessary. Governments have to make policies. They can't go 'asking' for permission from the business lobby - or any other group, for that matter. Imagine all the other interested parties who would want the same process before legislation was introduced which might, in their opinion, make life more difficult for them. We already have, through the social partnership, a system which allows business interests and others sufficient say in overall policy direction. Fine Gael's agenda for business misses one very important point. There is only so much any government can do for business. If a government gets its own business right, then companies will have a strong fighting chance of getting their business right. This government cannot stop 3Com from closing in Dublin. It cannot invent a package of incentives to convince major multinationals to create jobs here, when it just ain't happening. Once a government has a broadly pro-business agenda - as Fianna Fáil, the PDs, Fine Gael and Labour do - the priorities for now are threefold. The Government should develop 21st century infrastructure. It should provide all educational and other incentives necessary to ensure the growth of R&D and it should balance its books. The current government is failing in all three of those things. It is moving a little on the infrastructure issue, but it still has a huge way to go, having presided over the biggest boom in Western Europe which lasted a decade. It has still to show where Ireland is leading the way in terms of the development of high-end quality research and development. It should pump a fortune into education in this area. It is not balancing its books, having allowed public spending to get out of control. This spending was not on infrastructure, but on pay increases to purchase industrial peace. The wastage of public money in other areas is disgraceful - take the Bertie Bowl debacle, for a start. Fine Gael's agenda for business doesn't mention any of these three things. Yet the Government is failing in all three. If the Government got those three things right, the private sector would have the right environment to get on with its business. These are the big picture issues, and Fianna Fáil will manage to sidestep another tame left hook from Fine Gael. 
