business
{  
    June 24 2016 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/business-is-looking-up-for-women-in-north-cork-34824121.html }
A dynamic Women in Business Management Development programme came to a close in North Cork, last week, with the ten participants receiving a 10-out-of10 from Local Enterprise Office chiefs.  The 10 female entrepreneurs, from across various business sectors, attended the weekly three hour workshops which covered a range of topics, covering; finance, marketing, business strategy, business law, time management, life work balance and sales.  Delivered at various locations to accommodate participants, the final module was delivered at The Mill in Castletownroche. The highly subsidised programme, organised by Local Enterprise Office Cork was delivered by Smart Marketing Ltd, a mid-west firm owned by female entrepreneur Theresa Mulvihill.   Despite hectic business and personal lives, each week the participants took with them a five-point action plan to implement into their business.   Liz Walsh from Top to Toe Therapy in Mallow found the programme extremely beneficial. "There was a very good diversity of topics ranging from financial issues to marketing , HR to time management, legal issues to business issues all given by competent and enjoyable lecturers, who always made us feel that they really cared that our businesses would succeed and flourish," said Liz.  "I would thoroughly recommend this course to any person who is perhaps at a cross roads in their business and unsure whether to take the next step, as I felt that the Women in Business programme clarified many issues for me and revitalised me to progress my business further."  Liz also commented on the high level of support and interest shown during the programme by Business Advisor Joan Kelleher of the Mallow-based LEO. "Joan demonstrated excellent organisation, energy and enthusiasm in organising the Women in Business programme," said Liz.  Tina Kelleher of Elm Fair Therapies, also in Mallow, really enjoyed every aspect of the Programme. "I found that every issue was relevant and I have learnt so much from it," said Tina.  Sue Gifford of Sue Gifford Design in Castletownroche commented on the excellent contacts she made within the group and described it as " A great exercise in all areas of business development and an excellent networking base which she would highly recommend." The training programme was organized by The Local Enterprise Office Cork North and West was officially closed by Acting Head of Enterprise Kevin Curran. He said "We are here to support small business and your feedback is invaluable. This programme is an example of a project which has been requested by you, our clients.  We are here to help and support small business and want your honest feedback."  He encouraged the participants to look out for other supports available to them. He also pointed out that businesses on this programme provide local employment, some of which are developing export markets.   The Women in Business Network Programme is part of a series of supports for women in business or women who want to grow or start their own business. For more information contact Joan Kelleher at https://www.localenterprise.ie/CorkNorthandWest/ Corkman 
