business
{  
    August 10 2018 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/business-awards-launch-37189679.html }
Movers and shakers throughout the Sligo business world are invited to put their companies in the spotlight and celebrate their achievements at the 6th Annual Sligo Business Awards in association with The Sligo Champion and Sligo LEADER Partnership.  "This is a fantastic platform for local and international businesses - everybody likes to be acknowledged in their own community," said Mayor of Sligo Municipal District Councillor Rosaleen O'Grady, speaking at the official awards launch in The Sligo Champion's new premises on Stephen Street last Friday.  She was joined by many business sponsors, guests and former winners as Business Development Manager Lorraine McDonnell opened the applications to the 2018 Sligo Business Awards.  Nominations are now being accepted to the Awards, which this year have a new category of Best Female Led Business Award.  "The standard across all categories was extremely high in 2017 - every single one of those is an outstanding ambassador for Sligo business," said McDonnell.  INM Regionals West Managing Director John Feerick said the level of business activity in the county was "clearly reflected in the quality of entries these awards attracts. Once again The Sligo Champion is extremely grateful to our sponsors for supporting this event again this year."  Local businesses sponsoring the Sligo Business Awards include main partner Sligo LEADER Partnership, associate sponsors Callan Tansey, AIB, McSharry Foley, Money Plus, Bank of Ireland, IT Sligo, The Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, David McConville Orthodontics, Gilroy Gannon, Joe Kelly Fresh Fruits, Burns Car Sales, OSD, PMMS and Abbvie.  Sligo LEADER  Partnership CEO Chris Gonley  said: "The awards are about recognition of people and organisations that have made an exceptional contribution to their businesses and in turn to Sligo. The awards cover a range of sectors and areas; the nominations will be open for everyone in the county to have their say on who deserves to be recognised."  Best Sligo Business Award 2017 winners Damien and Angela Davis of Davis' Restaurant and Yeats Tavern said winning the overall award was "a great morale boost" for their 100 staff.  "We didn't go looking for it! It was a surprise but it was a really good surprise. It's nice when customers feel they're right about us. Lots of people sent us cards in the post and congratulated us," the couple said at the launch.  "The Sligo Business Awards are a great flagship for what small businesses do. The Sligo Champion and Sligo LEADER know the value of recognising small businesses. Communities are made from small businesses," said Money Plus Managing Director Eamonn Kielty .  The Awards take place on Friday, October 5th at The Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Ballincar.    Applicants have until Friday 7th September  to get their entries in. Tel: 071-916 9222.  Sligo Champion 
