business
{ Richard Curran 
    February 08 2014 01:04 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/elverys-sale-had-a-circuitous-route-but-its-for-the-best-29991883.html }
THE decision to place sports retail chain Elverys into examinership should result in the best possible outcome for Nama, taxpayers and the business itself. It is a relatively transparent process which allows the examiner to weigh up rival bids and take all factors into account such as the sustainability of the business plans put forward.  But getting to this stage has been a lot more complicated than one would normally expect. Nama is owed a debt by the Staunton brothers, who own the Elverys chain. The agency decided to sell on the Elverys business to help pay down some of that debt. IBI Corporate Finance was hired late last year to examine the options and eventually a receivership was announced. The receivership would see a consortium led by Elverys management, not directors or shareholders, purchase the business immediately from the receiver for around €10m. All 650 jobs would be saved. Known as a pre-packed receivership, these are aimed at limiting costs; taking some of the risk out of the deal; speeding up the process and ensuring the business and its brand are not damaged by a prolonged sales process. But, then British businessman Mike Ashley, owner of Premiership football club Newcastle, flew into Dublin, saying he wanted to buy the business. He claimed he would pay 25 per cent more. He said he and other prospective bidders were not happy with the process and that it had not been properly marketed to them. This triggered an about-face. The pre-pack receivership was shelved and the directors applied to the High Court for examinership instead. It would be very easy to wade in and criticise Nama. How come an agency, with €77bn of loans to sell, is embroiled in such hassle to flog a simple €10m business? Why is an agency that is committed to getting the best price engaging in pre-pack receiverships, instead of open tendering where the highest bidder wins? Does Ashley have a point about his bid and is this happening to other prospective bidders of other assets? But the reality is more complex and more nuanced. Firstly, there is a massive difference between selling a profitable trading business and selling an office block. It is a more complex situation with greater risks to the value of the asset itself. Secondly, the bid on the table was led by senior management. If they walked, the value of the business could fall. Thirdly, the bid on the table was literally on the table. We don't know how far the Ashley bid had progressed or what the conditions and risks associated with it were. Ashley is a shareholder in department store chain Heatons. It isn't clear exactly what his plans for the Elverys business are. He may have very deep pockets, which is good for the business, but equally he may want to put Heatons and Elverys together in a way that would impact on job numbers. All of these factors create a problem for Nama. The agency is primarily involved in owning, developing and selling loans or actual real estate. Inevitably, it will find itself owning shares in actual trading businesses that are completely different animals. Whenever it gets involved in businesses rather than property, things seem to get controversial. Look at the sale of shares in the Claridges Hotel chain in London. More recently, a cinema owner in Drogheda claims that Nama's decision to bankroll the development of a new cinema in the town will lead to over-capacity and destroy his business. When it comes down to it, the ownership of office blocks, development sites, hotels and other real estate doesn't really matter a whole lot. If international investors buy up most of the Nama portfolio, they will bring new money into the country and eventually sell on the assets anyway. How much of Manhattan or London is American or British owned? However, there is something fundamentally different about the ownership of businesses. Ownership of businesses effects the decisions that are made about those businesses. These can ultimately affect jobs and communities. I am not saying we should drape ourselves in the tricolour and see foreign ownership of businesses as a lesser thing – far from it. International capital, expertise and business energy are needed and welcome. The marketplace ultimately decides. But Nama can find itself caught in the middle of this. The agency has an obligation to get the best return back to the taxpayer on the assets it holds. It isn't a job-creation agency, a community trust or a nationalist organisation. All it can do is hire the best advice and make the best decisions possible by taking into the account price, risks and ability to execute the deal. A pre-pack receivership would have been fast, cheaper and no doubt taken account of the possible drop in the value of the business if some of the bidders dropped out along the way. The sale of any business where a State agency is ultimately in control is tricky. Having come a slightly circuitous route, the best option has now been chosen in the sale of Elverys, no matter what way it goes. Irish Independent 
