business
{ Sean Gallagher 
    March 15 2014 01:06 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/core-values-ensure-bright-red-future-for-the-hop-on-hop-off-tourist-buses-30095848.html }
FOR the average tourist, a visit to Dublin would not be complete without a trip on one of the city's hop-on hop-off bus tours.  Last week I met David McConn, CEO of the Dualway Group which operates, the now iconic, red open-top buses that ferry visitors to the capital's major attractions and popular sites. From their headquarters in Rathcoole in South County Dublin, the company also operates a range of sightseeing tours to places such as Newgrange, Glendalough, Powerscourt Gardens and Malahide Castle as well as a variety of longer tours to other locations throughout the country. In addition, the company specialises in corporate transport, provides buses for events, weddings and school runs and even finds time to run daily bus services from Rathcoole to the city centre and an airport hopper service from Tallaght and Maynooth. The company has come a long way since it was set up by David's father, Anthony, in 1978. Originally from Co Galway and with little education, Anthony moved to Dublin to make a better life for himself. He found work with Dublin Bus where he enjoyed a long and happy career as a conductor and a bus driver. He eventually decided to branch out and started his own taxi business. Anthony began receiving an increasing number of enquiries from groups looking to hire private bus or coach services and it was this that spurred him to buy his first bus. His days started early with a morning school run, followed by trips to the local swimming pool or whatever else he could squeeze in. In the evenings and at weekends he ferried people to and from various social and sporting events. Gradually one bus grew to two and two grew to four and soon he had managed to build up a small fleet. However, finding suitable parking facilities for his buses proved challenging for the new entrepreneur. "The only facilities he could either find or afford had no office space and no maintenance pits in which to carry out repairs," explains David. "For that reason, all the bookings, accounts and administration, were done initially from our family home. With seven children in the house at the time, it was far from ideal for either my parents or indeed for the business," explains David. But they persevered. And after many years of hard work, Anthony was finally able to buy enough land near Rathcoole on which to build a new home as well as a modest depot, complete with repairs and maintenance facilities and a modern office. From there, the business took off. In the mid-1990s, while on a trip to London and Edinburgh, Anthony noticed the growing market for city bus tours. "My father also found it interesting that many Japanese and European visitors would happily sit outside on the open top bus, in the rain, rather than sit under the shelter of a closed bus," explains David. Fresh from his new insights, Anthony bought an open-top bus in London and, together with an old double-decker bus which he removed the top off, he began offering his first sightseeing tours of Dublin. Around that time too, de-regulation of the airline industry came into effect and Ryanair began making an impact on the Irish aviation scene. "Between increased accessibility as a result of Ryanair and the growing buzz around the Temple Bar area, Dublin was quickly becoming a destination city for tourists and our business began to grow year on year as a result," says David. In 2004, the company introduced its first pre-recorded multi-lingual tour commentary. Available through individual headsets, tourists were now treated to information and engaging stories about the capital told in English, French, German, Spanish, Italian, Japanese, Russian – and in Irish. "Another pivotal moment in the business's development was the opening up of our visitor's centres," says David. "With three offices on O'Connell Street alone, visitors are able to get general tourist information about what to do, where to go and what events are on in the city and they can also book our sightseeing tours," he adds. Today the company has a fleet of more than 65 buses of which 30 are now open top, city tour buses. The remainder are used for day tours, private hire and school runs. Today too, the company is a large local employer with 110 staff working off-peak and 160 during peak seasons comprising drivers, guides, maintenance staff, administration and frontline staff in the visitor centres. David spent much of his childhood and teenage years helping out in the family business. "On evenings and weekends you could usually find me working in the office, on the buses or handing out promotional leaflets around the city," recalls David. He later completed a degree in business management and tourism in Tallaght IT and an MBA in Dublin City University, before joining the company officially in 2005. A year later his father retired and David took over the reins of the business. Like many family-run businesses, the handover and transition from first to second generation was not altogether without its challenges. "My father had achieved a huge amount in the business and the management team naturally had a deep loyalty to him and I guess they had to adjust to this young buck taking over," he explains. David, however, was keen to make his mark on the business and quickly set about introducing his own ideas including the implementation of a modern process of continuous improvement and the increased use of technology. He also set about defining the company's core values that would help differentiate the business from its competitors. "Quality and customer service have been and continue to be the cornerstone of our company's culture," insists David as he points to the company's core values, written in large print on the wall of his office. These include; being customer-focused, safety-focused, being innovative, being success orientated, being socially aware, having a Celtic warrior spirit and always providing quality through excellence. "These are also printed on the wall of the staff canteen and on the back of each staff member's name tag. Our team understand that, while people may change, times may change, and even our buses may change; our core values remain the same," he insists. David, did not, however, have much time to settle into his new role before the downturn in the economy took hold. "The recession hit the business hard between 2009 and 2011. Our biggest markets for visitors were the UK, Europe, US and Canada. All of these were feeling the pinch and as a result, visitor numbers dropped which in turn impacted our business," he says. However, he was fortunate to be able to depend on the support of his staff all of whom agreed to take an 8 per cent pay cut in order to safeguard the company's future. "We have truly great staff here, some of whom have given over 20 years' service in the company. We definitely owe them a debt of gratitude and now that things have improved, I am pleased that we can increase their pay again as we promised we would," he says proudly. David is also emphatic about acknowledging his family; his sisters Trish, who works as the firm's chief financial officer and Linda, who works as a project manager and his brother Owen who works in the maintenance side of the business. "It's not all about me," insists David. "This is a real team effort where everyone plays their part in the ongoing success of the business". Dualway is now approaching another exciting period. It has just launched a new city tour route to take in Glasnevin Cemetery, the Botanic Gardens and the visitor's centre at Croke Park. In addition, it has just completed the purchase of two landmark buildings on Grafton Street, opposite the main gates of Trinity College, which will now become its flagship tourist office for the southside of the city. And it is also planning to recruit a further 46 staff over the next two months. What's his long-term ambition for the business? "Our goal now is not necessarily to become the biggest sightseeing tour operator but certainly to be the best," says David confidently. This story is an inspiring one. It is an example of the many characteristics that it takes to be an entrepreneur; courage, hard work, core company values and a commitment to continuous improvement and growth. Anthony McConn came to Dublin in his teens in search of work. Having gained experience, knowledge of the city and having amassed some savings, he bravely swapped the security of his job for the less than secure road of self-employment. He worked hard, putting in long and unsociable hours. He loved his work and paid close attention to what his customers said. It was such feedback that propelled him into starting his own bus company and, eventually, his own open top city tour service. Having grown a hugely successful business, his son David has now taken the business to an even higher level of success. He has invested significantly in new technology, new buses, new routes and new visitor centres. But amid all this change, some things have remained the same, among them, the company's core values of quality service and excellence. What a wonderful example of entrepreneurship at work.  David's advice to new businesses 1 Social media and online is now a requirement, not an option "We now live in a digital age. Using a variety of social media platforms is an increasingly important way to promote your business. So are online facilities for customers." 2 Being socially aware can also help your bottom line "Being friendly to the environment, will always have a positive impact on your company's image. Personally, it has also helped us significantly reduce our fuel costs." 3 Invest in your people "While it's important to continuously invest in upgrading facilities for your customers, it is also vitally important to invest in your most essential asset – your employees." Sunday Indo Business 
