business
{  
    March 22 2011 10:55 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/enniscorthyguardian/news/high-rates-may-force-us-to-close-say-businessmen-27245397.html }
BUSINESS leaders in Wexford are holding a public meeting in Enniscorthy next week to protest at what they see as the unfair system of how rates are applied, and the 'unfair burden' they pose on employers. The action group, called ' Wear' ( Wexford Employers for Affordable Rates), is calling on all those who pay commercial rates to attend the meeting in the Riverside Park Hotel, Enniscorthy, on Monday, March 28, at 8 p.m. A steering committee for the group was set up in recent weeks, after the issue was raised on RTÉ's Joe Duffy radio show. The chairman of the group is well known Wexford hurling personality John Conran from Rathnure. ' This is borne out of frustration of a number of businesses in the county who are finding it difficult to pay rates,' said John. ' With the downturn, we are finding it very difficult.' He's keen to point out that this group is not against paying rates, nor is it critical of Wexford County Council, but it is calling for a more level playing field, and that changes are required at national level. 'Six weeks ago, about 20 business people got together in Ferns one night to try to organise a campaign to get our rates reduced,' he explained. 'It was highlighted in numerous ways, and Joe Duffy did a week on the topic, and a few of us spoke on the show, so it was borne out of that.' 'We have nothing against paying rates,' he added. ' But it's unsustainable for us to hold onto the amount of employees we have and stay in business because of the level of rates.' He said it's hoped that the public meeting will pull businesses together to get a mandate for going forward. 'A change is needed in the Rateable Valuation Act,' he maintained. 'If there's no material or physical change to your business, you don't even have a right of appeal. We're trying to get it changed so you can lodge an appeal.' 'You end up having to sell off some of your business before you have a right of appeal,' he said. ' There are all sorts of inequalities in it.' He said that some businesses are paying a huge amount of rates, much more than they can sustain. 'Jobs are going to be lost,' he said. 'We're probably going to have to let off people because we can't afford the rates bill. If you don't make money, you don't pay tax. You have to sell assets if you don't have the money to pay rates. If not you'll be brought to court. It's an intangible cost that you can't control.' Only businesses pay rates, and they are the only funding source for local government, apart from the Exchequer. The employers say they don't mind paying their fair share, but say it is unreasonable to expect them to carry everyone else, since they pay tax as well. They say that lower rates will save businesses and jobs. Many employers have already cut staff members in order to pay rates. They say the rates system is based on old-fashioned valuation methods which don't take into account the downturn in the economy, and that the rates system is crippling rate-paying businesses, and is helping to close some. At a time when property prices have dropped dramatically, they say rates have increased dramatically in some cases. The group says it has heard of one case where a business received a 300 per cent increase in rates, and will have to close as a result. Another businessman said he didn't mind paying rates when business was good, but now that it has 'fallen off a cliff', and Nama has decided that property is only worth 30 per cent of what it was, he still has to pay €30,000 a year before he opens his door. The group has said that even the Valuation Office employees in Dublin are often apologetic and embarrassed when dealing with them, because of the way the system is set up. 'If you started in 2005 or 2006, they would rate you on the rentable value of the property, but that's all gone down now. However, your rates don't go down, they go up,' said John Conran. ' They assess what other businesses around you might be paying, and that always went up.' He said that his Zokolo furniture wholesale business employed 50 people at one stage, but is now down to four or five employees. 'I'm being charged €30,000 in rates. I've appealed two or three times, but they're saying there's no material change. Even if I closed down and tried to rent the buildings, nobody would rent because the rates are so high. I'm caught every way.' He said that hotels have beenv hit particularly hard. One hotelier in the county is paying up to €500,000 for three hotels, while the owners of another two hotels are paying around €350,000. 'Imagine the amount of jobs that could be created with that,' he said. ' This is killing the job situation in a lot of areas.' Business owner Tom Doyle from Camolin says that he, like many businesses, will have to let staff go, should rates stay at the current level. ' The way it is, if we have to pay rates, we'll have to let staff off. We have no other option,' he said. 'If we get a reduction in rates, it might be the opposite way round. Money has to come from somewhere, and they only way to pay is to reduce numbers.' ' The law needs to be changed,' said John Conran. 'We want our group to get a mandate to go forward and work on government and try to get the law changed.' 'It's business versus the law,' he said. 'Some of it could be considered unconstitutional, but nobody has ever taken a case the whole way. County councillors are on our side, and most of the ministers are agreeing that something needs to be done, but nothing is happening fast enough.' 'By the time it does, so many businesses will be gone,' he added. ' The will is there for the law to be changed. We believe that a lower rate will save businesses and jobs.' Similar campaigns are being set up in other counties. ' They can't get blood out of a stone, which they are trying to do,' said John. ' The stone is eventually going to crumble.' ' The new government has a mantra of creating jobs, so here's a chance for them to do something that's proactive in creating jobs,' he added. 'We're just fighting for fair play.' 
