business
{  
    April 12 2011 10:07 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/enniscorthyguardian/news/honouring-the-best-of-local-businesses-27246038.html }
LOCAL BUSINESSES are set to get their day in the sunshine shortly as the third annual Wexford Business Awards are staged. Sponsored by Wexford County Council these county-wide awards honour industry leaders who have worked hard to establish innovate business processes, product development, enterprise sustainability and overall business success. Sound environmental and green business practices are at the heart of the awards and the green credentials of each entry, across all categories is considered. There are a total of 14 awards which acknowledge excellence in a variety of areas. Awards include: Wexford Green Business Award; Wexford E-Commerce Award; Wexford Tourism Award; Wexford Young Business Person of the Year; Wexford Service Provider Award ; Wexford Manufacturing Award; Wexford International Export Award; Wexford Employer of the Year Award; Wexford Retail Award; Wexford Research and Development Award; Wexford Emerging New Business Award; Wexford Civic Award; Wexford Training Provider Award; Small Business Award). Out of each of these award winners there will be an overall Wexford Business of the Year. Last year's winners were Chevron Training from Enniscorthy. Wexford Business Awards are open to businesses of all sizes and sectors in County Wexford, but they must be in business for at least two years, unless the business is entered into the categories: 'Wexford Young Business Person of the Year', Wexford Research and Development and Wexford Emerging New Business Award. The businesses must also trade, or partly trade in County Wexford. 'Against the extremely challenging trading conditions that businesses endure, it is vitally important that the achievements and talent needed to survive are celebrated. Wexford is home to many successful businesses that provide valued local employment and are a driving force in our local economy,' said Chamber of Commerce CEO Madeleine Quirke this week. Official applications must be completed and returned to Wexford Chamber by Friday April 29. Category criteria are explained in full on www.wexfordchamber.ie The awards will be presented at a gala awards ceremony dinner on June 17. A keynote address will be delivered at this year's awards by Tom Savage, Director - The Communications Clinic and Chairman with RTE. 
