business
{  
    September 02 2009 09:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/lifestyle/securing-the-financial-future-of-your-business-27386698.html }
Securing the Financial Future of your business. No matter what business sector you operate in, your company's ongoing success and development will often hinge on a number of leading individuals, be they key personnel, directors or partners. The loss of such people could leave your business in a vulnerable position and it is wise to have a plan in place to protect your company financially should such an event occur. Consider the following: If your business partner dies, what would happen to their share of the business? How would your company cope if a shareholder or key member of staff died or became seriously ill? How would you feel about a family member of the deceased shareholder joining the business? How would you access the cash to buy a deceased partner or director's share of the business? How would it financially affect the family of a deceased partner or director? In any business arrangement, the death or diagnosis of a serious illness of one of the individuals involved can have serious financial consequences for those left in the business. Many problems that arise following such events can be alleviated through careful financial planning. Arranging business insurance is an effective way to ensure that funds will be available to ensure the business continues as the directors/partners wish. How does It work? In simple terms a life assurance policy is effected on the life of the partner/director/keyper son and the company pays the premiums. In turn any benefits paid out on the death or diagnosis of serious illness of that person are directly payable to the company to be used to ensure the financial security of the business. What type of business insurance do you require? Partnership Insurance In a partnership, the death of any of the firm's partners can have serious financial repercussions for both the firm itself and the deceased partner's family. The aim of partnership insurance is to provide funds to allow the remaining partners to buy back the deceased partner's share from his/her family. This will allow the surviving partners to continue running the business. At the outset the partners decide and plan in advance what they would do in the event of any one of their deaths and they place a monetary value on their share of the partnership. Having this cover in place ensures that the cash is available to ensure the continuation of the firm. This option also ensures that the deceased's estate can immediately receive the market value of the partner's share of the firm. Co-director insurance A successful business depends on the close cooperation and experience of the directors. The death of one of the directors can have serious impacts on both the surviving directors and the family of the deceased. Normally the surviving directors would wish to buy back the shares from the family of the deceased but may not have the funds available. Co-directors insurance gives the directors of the company the peace of mind that there will be funds available to them on the death of a director to buy back his/her shareholding from his/her family, therefore maintaining their control of the company. Again this also ensures that the deceased's estate can immediately receive the market value of the director's shareholding. This arrangement ensures that the shares do not have to be sold to an outside investor at an inappropriate time and that ongoing control of the company can be decided upon before the death of any of the shareholders. Keyperson insurance A keyperson is an employe e / d i r e c t o r whose expertise, knowledge and contacts are key to the continued financial success of the company. Keyperson insurance is designed to help companies protect themselves financially against the effects of the premature and unexpected death of a key member of staff. Keyperson insurance assists the survival of the company on the death of a key employee by compensating the company for any anticipated loss. With keyperson cover, following the death of a leading member of staff a cash sum is paid out to the company to help cover the business costs caused by their death, such as hire of a replacement, replacing the loss of income to the company, repay loans etc Cover should be put in place for those employees with specialised skills or someone the company depends on for its continued success and whose death would adversely affect the business. Business insurance will differ depending on the structure of your business. We have highlighted in brief the workings of it above. As some areas can be complex we would recommend that you contact your financial adviser. PSC Wealth Plus is regulated by the Financial Regulator as a multi agency intermediary and as a mortgage intermediary. 
