business
{ John Manning 
    February 16 2019 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/fingal-entrepreneurs-invited-to-boot-camp-37804637.html }
Aspiring entrepreneurs and people who have recently set up a fledgling business are urged to follow their dream at Fingal start-up bootcamp which will kick-off, Fingal Local Enterprise Week next month. Entrepreneurs are often celebrated for wearing multiple hats and putting extremely long hours into the development of their business, while at the same time balancing family and personal demands.  However their biggest strength is also their greatest weakness, being too absorbed in the day-to-day organisation of their business could result in the loss of perspective.  To counteract this, Fingal Local Enterprise Office is organising a one-off 'Start-Up Business Bootcamp' that will kick-off Local Enterprise Week, on March 4. This unique and exclusive full-day, advanced bootcamp for start-up businesses is designed to pull busy entrepreneurs away from the distractions of their busy life for one day, to equip them for a more strategic and successful business into the future. The bootcamp will provide a creative and engaging thinking space to help entrepreneurs gain new perspectives and insights for a better and stronger business and a more focused, strategic business owner/manager. Head of Enterprise in Fingal, Oisin Geoghegan said: 'The demand for our Start Your Own Business programmes and other business supports is consistently high.  'Last year, we ran thirteen full Start Your Own Business programmes, for 151 entrepreneurs, most of who will go on to establish a new business 'We are targeting start-ups that have real job creation potential to join us in this highly interactive and intensive Business Bootcamp.  'It will be an intensive and memorable learning experience.  'All participants will come out of this bootcamp with lots of ideas as to how they can drive their new business forward.' Places are strictly limited to a maximum of 50 Business Owner Managers.  Applicants must have a newly established business or giving serious consideration to setting up their own business. After leaving the Start-up Bootcamp inspired and energised, participants can attend a range of other events throughout Local Enterprise Week to support their business success.  These include learning how to run your business successfully from Fingal entrepreneurs on Tuesday in Portmarnock (hosted by Fingal Dublin Chamber); a finance-raising seminar on Wednesday at Bank of Ireland Enterprise Hub in Ballycoolin; a marketing workshop on Thursday (hosted by Balbriggan Chamber); and a HR essentials breakfast event Clayton hotel at the M1/M50 Junction (hosted by Plato Dublin).  A myriad of other events are also on offer and you can find out more about Local Enterprise Week in Fingal at www.localenterprise.ie/fingal.  All events are funded by Fingal Local Enterprise Office: so they are either free-of-charge or a small booking fee applies. As with last year, many of the events are expected to book up quickly so early booking is strongly advised. Fingal Independent 
