business
{ Independent.ie Newsdesk 
    October 11 2014 04:17 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/from-tide-to-your-table-one-dingle-fish-company-really-scaled-things-up-30656016.html }
It's a soft Irish morning in the kingdom of Kerry when I step off the pier in Dingle and onto the fishing trawler, the Elsie Marie 11. I have come to meet Liam Quinlan, managing director of Quinlan's Fish. Together with his brothers, Ronan and Fintan, Liam now runs the family's fish business.  Set up over 50 years ago by their father Michael - who still remains active in the business - the company has since grown to include a fish processing factory in Caherciveen, a factory retail outlet, fish shops in Caherciveen, Killorglin, Killarney and Tralee as well as two fish restaurants (one in Killarney and one in Tralee). As well as owning their own 33m vessel, the Skellig Light II, Quinlan's buy the entire catch from this, the Elsie Marie II and four other large trawlers, based in Dingle, and Killybegs in Co Donegal, as well as from a number of smaller trawlers in Portmagee and Valentia. "This boat we are on, arrived in about 5am this morning with its catch having been out to sea for the last 36 hours fishing off the Skelligs and Blasket Islands," explains Liam. Though it's calm in the harbour right now, there is little shelter aboard the deck of the trawler and I get a sense of how hard the life of a fisherman must be. As I ponder what it must be like on the high seas, I immediately gain a respect for the men who live this way of life and for the work they do to support their families and the contribution their work makes to our fishing industry. Once landed, the fish are brought to the company's factory in Caherciveen where they are then processed before being delivered to the company's own shops and restaurants as well as to a wide variety of customers and distributors throughout Ireland. The company also has a strong export market, particularly to the UK, Spain and France, and in recent year have also developed a thriving online sales strand to their business. "Quality and freshness are key pillars of our business model," explains Liam. "For example, the fish that were landed at 5am this morning will by now already be in our shops. "We often tell our customers that our fish are that fresh that they land into our own and our customers' shops, every morning, before their own mothers even realise that they are missing," he adds with a laugh. Liam explains too, that a lot of people are not aware that some of the fish sold in shops today may have been caught many thousands of miles away or may be imported or have been frozen for a number of weeks before arriving in Ireland. In addition to the processing that goes on in their factory - of fish such as cod, haddock, hake, whiting, monkfish and plaice - the Quinlans also have their own smoke house in Caherciveen in which they smoke high-quality wild and organic Irish salmon for the local and export market. Here, experienced staff hand-fillet each salmon to remove all traces of bone before covering them in salt. The salting process 'cures' the salmon as well as killing bacteria and improving its shelf life. Once washed and left to dry, the fish are placed on racks and wheeled into the kiln where smoke from wood and oak shavings is used to give the salmon a distinctive oak flavour. It's a process the family have perfected with time. Liam Quinlan grew up in Renard, near Caherciveen, in Co Kerry. His father, Michael, bought a fish processing business in the 1960s and as children, Liam recalls how he and his brothers spent much of their youth helping out in the family business. After school, Liam won a scholarship from the then training agency Anco to attend the Humberside College of Education in Grimsby, where he studied, among other things, fish science and fish handling and marketing. Returning to Ireland, he joined the family business on a full-time basis and later became its managing director. His brothers, Ronan and Fintan, also joined the family business after college and they now work with Liam in operations, IT and finance. Up until the late 1980s, Quinlan's business model was based primarily on freezing their produce before exporting it to locations across Europe, Africa, Egypt and Japan. However, the model involved shipping high volumes of fish for relatively low margins. To improve margins, the company decided to begin supplying their fish in either a fresh or chilled format. They then shifted their focus to select export markets where there was a demand for fresh fish. In addition, they began to sell their fish at markets here in Ireland - but often found that they returned home having sold little or none of their catch. Frustrated, Liam's father, Michael, suggested they open their own shops and sell directly to the public. "My father felt that as we already had access to a steady supply of high-quality fresh fish, all we were lacking was our own direct route to the market. And he was right," says Liam. In 1989, the Quinlans opened two fish shops, one in Caherciveen and the other in Killorglin. Both were a run-away success. It was at a time when consumers had moved beyond the tradition of only eating fish on a Friday. Many had begun to see fish as a healthy and affordable meal option. In 2008, they opened two more shops, this time in Killarney and Tralee, which proved to be equally successful. Things progressed even further when, on a trip to meet customers in the UK, Liam visited a local fish and chip shop. Sitting there, eating his fresh cod and chips, Liam had a light bulb moment. "Why not open a chain of high-quality fish and chip shops in Ireland?" Back home, he immediately got to work on his new idea. For a time too, he even considered broadening his "fish-only" restaurant concept to a more standard offering. However, advice from well-known fish restaurant owner, Martin Shanahan, of Fishy Fishy, in Kinsale, suggested that the family stick to what they knew best: selling their own fish. "It turned out to be great advice for us. We opened our first and fish and chip diner in Killarney in 2011 offering 17 different types of fish. It proved such a success that we opened a second one in Tralee two years later," explains Liam. "The experience also taught us an important lesson: that there is no point in having great products and no customers, you have to go to where the people are," he adds. Their efforts gained considerable recognition when they were awarded the BIM Seafood Shop of the Year in 2011. In 2014, the company went on to win Kerry Radio's Business of the Year award and their wild salmon was awarded gold medals at both the Blas na hEireann and Great Taste food awards. Today the company is focused on opening more shops and is actively looking for suitable premises in Cork, Limerick and Dublin. Moreover, Liam believes there may be an opportunity to grow the Quinlan's fish and chips concept further through a partnership or franchise arrangement with an already established chain. At the same time, Liam and his family continue to focus on growing the export side of their business and, with assistance from the BIM Seafood Development Centre in Clonakilty, they are currently developing new products and tailored marketing materials to better address these international market opportunities. Back home in Kerry, the company has taken on a number of graduates to help build their marketing, finance, IT and food safety management functions to enable them to cope with the continuous growth in their business. "Like all businesses, our staff play a huge role in our success. Some have been working with us now for over 50 years," says Liam. "They know that it is the customer that pays everyone's wages. And they know too, that the customer who comes into one of our shops at five minutes before closing is just as important as the first customer of the day," he adds. Quinlan's Fish business is steeped in tradition. Started more than 50 years ago, the company has now expanded, evolved and developed in a multi-strand operation. They continue to export fresh fish and smoked salmon through a network of distributors and agents. However, the significant pivot for the business came when they made the strategic decision to open their own chain of dedicated fish shops and fish and chip diners. This move allowed them to control the complete supply chain. It's a model that now provides the company with an additional and profitable revenue stream as well as access to a whole new generation of customers. Moreover, it's a model that is highly scalable, both at home and beyond. As it continues to grow and expand, at its core, Quinlan's continues to draw on the key values and drivers that have made it the success it is today. These include a passion for the best-quality seafood, a strong work ethic and exceptional commitment to customer service. You can contact Quinlan's Fish Shops and Restaurants at Renard Point, Caherciveen, Co Kerry, Ireland. Call (066) 9472177 or visit www.kerryfish.com Love your customer "Know and love your customers. Spend time building relationships. This builds loyalty and allows you to better understand their needs and expectations. It also allows you to spot changes in the market so you can respond to trends. Quality, quality, quality "Quality wins the race every time. In a market full of competitors, quality can become your key differentiator. Price is important, but it's quality that will allow you to develop a sustainable, viable business in the longer term." Develop your staff "Your staff are key to the success of any business. It is imperative that you instil in them a passion for the business and for the customer. You need to be able to depend on key staff if you want to grow and scale your business." Sunday Indo Business 
