business
{  
    January 16 2015 03:24 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/seminar-for-business-start-ups-30913551.html }
Are you in business and want to know about the support you can obtain? What business grants you can apply for? Which funded programmes will help you grow your business?  Do you need to secure finance?  Thinking of entering new markets?  Do you need help on how to survive?  Are you looking to expand and/or recruit?  Want to start your own business?  Are you unsure of where to look for guidance, support and advice? If the answer is 'YES' to any of these questions come to the Cross Border Business Support Expo taking place on the 29th  January 2015 in the Carrickdale Hotel between 9.30am-12.30pm. All the Business Support Agencies catering for the needs of businesses located within the Newry Dundalk region will be exhibiting at this unique event.  This event will provide an ideal opportunity for local businesses to speak to all relevant Business Support Agencies in one morning, on a one-to-one basis, under one roof!  The event will also feature a workshop on writing tenders and a presentation from Slender Choice on how they successfully sourced and secured grant funding and support to help grow their business.  This is event is joint hosted by Newry Chamber of Commerce & Trade and Dundalk Chamber of Commerce and is supported by InterTradeIreland and the Louth Local Enterprise Office. Paddy Matthews President of Dundalk Chamber is delighted that the Chamber along with their partners are organizing this event. There is an array of business support programmes currently offered to local businesses; however, there is some confusion within the business community about where to look for this support and exactly what they can avail of.  The aim of this event is to provide a forum where businesses can find out all they need to know about the support they can and should avail of'.  Grant Gilmore, Acting Director of Business Services and Programmes, InterTradeIreland, stated, 'Cross-border trade presents businesses with an invaluable opportunity to increase their sales, develop new markets and benefit from all-island expertise and innovation. We encourage all SMEs from Newry and Dundalk and the surrounding areas to attend this event to see exactly what opportunities are available and how to access them.' Confirmed exhibitors at the event include, InterTradeIreland, Invest NI, Newry & Mourne District Council, Louth County Council, Newry & Mourne Enterprise Agency, Southern Regional College, Department of Employment & Learning, Regional Development Centre, Enterprise Ireland, EURES, Employability Louth, all of the main lending institutions, plus many more. Local company Slender Choice headed by Karen Daly will also tell her story on how they secured funding. There will also be a guest speaker from InterTrade Ireland on how to make a successful tender. This event is open to all businesses in the Newry Dundalk region.  Entry is free of charge.  It will operate on a 'business drop-in clinic' format; whereby business representatives can call in to the event at any stage between the hours of 9.30am to 12.30pm on January 29.   To register for the event or if you require further information, please call Brenda in Dundalk Chamber on Tel: 042 9336343 or email Brenda@dundalk.ie Irish Independent 
