business
{ Louise McBride 
    January 17 2015 06:54 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/personal-finance/the-33000-bill-you-can-face-for-flying-in-luxury-30915674.html }
Booking the ultimate in luxury flights could be your way of escaping the January blues but you will need deep pockets if you do so - a top-of-the-range return flight for two could cost almost as much as the average Irish wage.  One of the most luxurious ways to fly today is in the three-bedroom private cabin launched by Etihad Airways in late December. The cabin, known as The Residence, includes a living room, double bedroom and en suite shower. Guests in The Residence - which is currently only available on flights from London Heathrow to Abu Dhabi - also have their own personal butler. However, as it could set you back as much as €16,400 to fly one-way from London to Abu Dhabi, this luxury travel doesn't come cheap. Similarly, if you're planning to whisk your loved one off to Abu Dhabi for St Valentine's Day, a return flight for both of you with Etihad from London could cost €32,841 in The Residence. That's about two grand shy of the average Irish wage. Furthermore, as you can't fly in The Residence from an Irish airport, you'd also have to arrange and pay for another flight from Ireland to London. Of course, you don't have to book The Residence to fly in style. Fly first-class with a good airline and you can expect your own private suite in a first-class cabin. (This suite won't necessarily be a separate room or cabin.) You should also get a seat which turns into a flat bed, a mattress and duvet, and a flashy TV. You'll usually have your own mini-bar or access to an on-board private bar. You may also be able to use a shower which is reserved for first-class passengers. Of course, there's the gourmet food - along with the fancy cutlery and crockery. And as suites usually have aisle access, you won't have to fall over other passengers on your way to the loo. Just how fancy your first-class flight is will depend on the airline. Etihad has a one-aisle first-class cabin. Suites come with sliding doors for privacy, an ottoman which transforms into a flat bed, a reclining armchair, a mini-bar and a 24-inch flat-screen TV. Emirates also offers a first-class private suite with its own sliding doors for privacy, a flat bed, mini-bar, and access to an on-board shower. Virgin Atlantic's first-class cabin has leather armchairs for passengers which flip over into separate beds. British Airways' first-class passengers get a flat bed, cotton duvet and pillow, and cotton pyjamas. Along with a choice of starters, mains and desserts, first-class flyers can also tuck into afternoon tea and cheese plates. Although first-class travel doesn't cost as much as The Residence, you could still pay almost €20,000 for a return flight for two. Earlier this week, the Sunday Independent checked the price of a return flight for two adults this St Valentine's Day - with the couple flying out to their destination on Friday, February 13 and flying home on Monday, February 16. The couple could have paid as much as €18,116 to fly first class with Virgin Atlantic from London Heathrow to JFK, New York, though this included chauffeur-driven airport transfers. The cheapest first-class flights from Dublin to JFK Airport with British Airways were for €17,333. This price included return Aer Lingus flights from Dublin to London Heathrow, which were not first class. (Aer Lingus does not offer first-class seats). Were the couple to instead fly from Dublin to Abu Dhabi with Etihad that weekend, the cheapest first-class flights available were for €12,166. Again, this included return Aer Lingus flights from Dublin to London Heathrow. At €6,637, a first-class flight from Dublin to Dubai with Emirates worked out as one of the cheapest premium long-haul fares for that weekend. This was still, however, six times the cost of an economy ticket on the same flight. Neither Aer Lingus nor Ryanair offer first-class seats. Last October, Aer Lingus launched a new business class service on flights to and from North America. And Ryanair launched its business class service - Business Plus - last August. This service is available on all of its flights. Fly business class and you can expect more leg-room than your fellow economy passengers, a better class of meal and drinks, access to private airport lounges, quicker check-in, and for long-haul flights, a fold-down flat bed. Aer Lingus's business class includes a seat which turns into a flat bed, free wi-fi, and 16-inch TV monitors. A couple flying business class with Aer Lingus from Dublin to New York's JFK Airport this St Valentine's Day would pay €10,080 if they opt for the Business Flex fare (which offers more freedom to change your ticket than standard business class), according to this paper's survey. The couple would pay €4,638 for a standard business class ticket with Aer Lingus - at less than half the price of Business Flex, this is a better deal. Aer Lingus's standard business class also worked out cheaper than it would cost to fly business class from Dublin to JFK with United Airlines. The cheapest return business class flight for two this paper could find with United for St Valentine's Day cost €7,949. Although Ryanair's Business Plus fare is not that expensive when compared to other business class offerings, don't expect too many frills. Yes, you get priority boarding and an extra baggage allowance but you won't get a seat that turns into a flat bed (though as the airline's flights are short-haul, you're unlikely to need one). When asked how much roomier its business class seats are than economy seats, a spokesman for Ryanair said: "Premium seats are available at the front and overwings (with more leg room) and at the rear of the aircraft, for speedy exits." A loved up couple flying on Ryanair's Business Plus fare from Dublin to Madrid this St Valentine's Day could have bought flights for €460 (if paying by debit card) earlier this week. Whichever airline you fly with, expect to pay at least twice the price of economy seats if you fly business class - and up to 26 times the price of economy if you opt for ultimate luxury and fly first class. You might be more than prepared to pay that if you've had enough of cheap, crammed economy flights. The thought of having other passengers' elbows in your face as they tuck into foul-smelling meals might just not do it for you anymore. Or you might just want to fall asleep without waking up with a dislocated neck. Some things are worth paying for. Even if business or first-class travel is beyond your budget, you may be able to upgrade your ticket so you get such a seat for a fraction of the normal price. "A lot of airlines are doing bidding upgrades," said Deirdre Sweeney, general manager of niche holidays with Sunway. Etihad Airways, for example, allows passengers who have already booked an economy or business-class ticket with the airline to bid for an upgrade to the next higher cabin. You basically make an offer for the seat and then find out about a day before you depart whether your bid has been successful. You need to keep your offer within certain limits set by the airline - Etihad won't accept any bids below the minimum or higher than the maximum limits. You could have to bid anything from €500 to several hundred euro, depending on the airline and the length of your flight. So what about free upgrades? "Airport upgrades only happen if a flight is overbooked," said Ms Sweeney. "Each airline has its own policy on this and how they operate it. Airlines will upgrade frequent flyers [where a customer signs up to a loyalty programme and earns points for each flight travelled with an airline] firstly." Upgrades for newlyweds heading off on honeymoon are "a thing of the past", according to Ms Sweeney. "Each traveller is viewed as important and will have the same opportunity as the next passenger," said Ms Sweeney. It may work out cheaper to book business flights through a travel agent than directly with an airline. Of course, if your wallet will never stretch to first-class or luxury air travel, you might be able to afford a luxury cabin on a ferry. Brittany Ferries' Commodore Cabin is more spacious than its standard ones and includes twin beds, a private balcony, free mini bar, ensuite shower, and TV. A couple travelling on Brittany Ferries from Cork to Roscoff in mid-June could pay €820 return to travel in the Commodore - or €1,358 if travelling with a car. Sunday Indo Business 
