business
{ Maria Herlihy 
    September 15 2017 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/looking-ahead-to-ird-duhallow-business-awards-36129735.html }
The fifth IRD Duhallow Business Awards will take place in just two months time and members of the business community in the region are being encouraged to apply across a host of categories. While the region is long regarded as being rich in culture, music and sport, the business community have also shown they are the true ambassadors of Duhallow. IRD Duhallow, in conjunction with The Corkman, will honour and recognise the business community who help put their region on the map. The awards recognise the sustainability, creativity and innovation which businesses in the region showcase, as well as their invaluable contribution to the local economy. The awards ceremony will be held on Thursday, November 16, in a marquee on the grounds of the James O’Keeffe Institute in Newmarket. John Feerick, MD of The Corkman said: “For the fifth year in a row, The Corkman is truly delighted to be the media partner for the IRD Duhallow Business awards.” He said over the last number of years in the Duhallow region, the business community have shown their innovation, dedication and utter determination to push their enterprises forward. “There is certainly a can-do attitude in the Duhallow catchment region and while the area is rich in sport, music and a community spirit, it really is fitting that the business community are also lauded for their achievement,” he added. Maura Walsh, CEO of IRD Duhallow, said: “ We are once again really delighted to hold these business awards. Without question, the awards reflect the business acumen, talent and calibre of the business community in this catchment region.” As the catchment region of IRD Duhallow has recently been expanded, for the second year in-a-row applications can be submitted from the Muskerry region. When all applications have been submitted, it will then be a matter for the judges to view each application on its own merits and then the short-listing stage will be undertaken. The categories for the awards will consist of Best Business Start Up (confined to businesses which commenced trading on or after January 1, 2015); Best Established Business Award (confined to businesses that commenced trading prior to January 1, 2015); Creative Industry Award; Best Agri Related Business; Women Led Business Award and Community Enterprise Award. There will also be an overall award and this will go to the company that judges feel is the most deserving of the title of ‘Best Duhallow Business'. Corkman 
