business
{  
    August 06 2009 01:21 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/business-networks-sligo-chapter-rapidly-expands-27565839.html }
A local business initiative has taken off, with an impressive expansion in its membership in a matter of weeks. Business Network International's Yeats Chapter in Sligo was set up only 4 months ago with a core group of 22 members – and now boast a membership of 40, a growth of nearly 80%. BNI's Area Director, Derek Reilly said that the success was the result of members' enthusiasm and proven approach to business generation. "Clearly this shows that business people in the Sligo area are keen to work together and generate business for themselves and other members," he said. "Already there's an impressive range of businesses on board and we're looking forward to even greater success, both in terms of new members and the amount of business generated. Local business people looking to generate new opportunities are always welcome. "The structured approach of BNI in generating referrals for new business has been demonstrated time and time again. "We're seeing a huge amount of interest with plenty of business referrals identified.' Already over 1,000 of new business referrals have been shared between members of Yeats BNI chapter since it was set up. This has amounted into over €250,000 worth of business," said Mr. Reilly. BNI was launched 24 years ago by 'word of mouth' marketing guru Dr Ivan Misner and has grown into a hugely successful global business network. Its approach has taken the business community by storm, with over 100,000 members in 5,000 local groups – or 'chapters' – in 40 countries. The organisation has over 2,000 members in Ireland who benefit from a structured, positive and supportive environment for networking and referrals. Chapter members work together to provide business referrals for members of the group, using the philosophy of 'Givers Gain' – by giving you business, you'll give me business. The model works on the proven basis of word of mouth referrals and a unique, structured approach to networking and business generation. Only person from any specific trade or profession is represented in each Chapter. The Yeats Chapter meets from 6.45am every Tuesday morning and local business people interested in taking part can contact Derek Reilly Area Director on 086-6839709 or BNI's regional office on 094 9021553. Further information about BNI is at www.bni.ie 
