business
{ Richard Curran 
    December 22 2019 07:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/richard-curran-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly-of-a-bizarre-year-in-business-38806645.html }
It has been a truly bizarre year in business. A year ago, there was a reasonable expectation that a major international slowdown was coming. It was reasonably assumed also that Brexit would hit the Irish and British economies badly. And, of course, many felt the bull run on international stock markets was probably coming to a close.  Instead, stock markets have done very well. Interest rates remain incredibly low. Sovereign debt markets leave borrowing rates really cheap. The Irish economy, somewhat stuttered by Brexit uncertainty, has had a very good year. Once again, as the year draws to a close, the same nervousness is in the air. Brexit, trade wars and a stock market bubble are still looming on the horizon. One of the most surprising things about 2019 for business is how, despite a very solid performance for the Iseq index of shares, so many Irish-listed companies had a bad year. 
Close
 Valerie and Noel Moran / On the other hand, it was a great year to sell a business or raise investment in a firm at very strong valuations. Those who have had the best year were sellers of companies. The good 1. A year ago, Noel and Valerie Moran, the couple behind Prepaid Financial Services in Navan, said they would float the company in the first half of 2019. A valuation of around €150m to €180m was mentioned by some. But by the spring, they had pulled the idea of floating, because the markets were not right. Just a few months later, they sold the firm for €264m. Having started the business at their kitchen table in London, they have sold at a perfect time and for a great price. 2. It was second time lucky for Fexco and the management of Goodbody Stockbrokers. Together, they sold Goodbody to Bank of China in a €150m deal, after a previous bid fell apart. Goodbody management have done well from their 49pc. Fexco has really bagged a fortune, having bought the business for €24m in 2010. 
Close
 Patrick and John Collison of Stripe / 3. In the big league of valuations, they don't get much larger than the Collison brothers' Stripe. It raised around $70m (€63m) in January in a deal that valued the online payments firm at $20bn. A few months later, they raised $220m in a deal that valued the business at $35bn. This isn't exactly money in the bank for Patrick and John Collison, but their stake is valued at around $8.7bn. Not bad for a 28- and 30-year-old. 4. Green Reit founders Stephen Vernon and Pat Gunne decided to get out of the firm by selling it this year. Bought by Henderson Park in a €1.3bn deal, the two have shown impeccable timing and will have bagged around €55m for their shares, a share in an €11m performance bonus and possibly a golden handshake. Not bad, having floated the property group in 2013 and receiving several million in fees along the way. 5. Finance Minister Paschal Donohoe has had a good year. As long as the economy performed well, the Exchequer would have plenty of cash to go around. Corporation tax was the big ATM machine again this year and is on track to deliver close to €11bn in 2019. Last year, €1 in every €5 collected in tax came from corporation tax. All great, as long as it can keep rolling in. Even former Central Bank governor Patrick Honohan believes that will not be the case and the take will fall off a cliff at some point. In 2014, we took in €4.6bn. If €5bn was a more long-term, sustainable level of tax receipt, we will receive about €18bn more in corporation tax between 2015 and 2019 than would be sustainable. It is like an €18bn lottery win. Have we much to show for it? The bad 1. It is hard to say that it has been a bad year for a company that saw its share price rise by 28pc and which has delivered solid results throughout. But when Kerry Group missed out on acquiring DuPont's nutrition business to International Flavors and Fragrances (IFF), it kind of overshadowed things. It isn't so much that not getting the $25bn company was a major setback for Kerry, as a big opportunity that got away. Now two of its big rivals are one, and Kerry must battle on, no doubt by identifying some smaller acquisitions. IFF may have had to leverage a lot to get the DuPont deal, and maybe it valued the business too highly. But these are challenges it can respond to once it has the company. For Kerry, not landing it isn't a major setback, but must hurt. 2. Aryzta has had a few horrible years. This year was to have been one of consolidation, cost-cutting and the beginning of a new phase. Yet, despite raising €800m in new equity a year ago, the company closes out this year with a market capitalisation of just €951m. It started off well, with a share price that hit €1.41 in May. It finally offloaded its share of French frozen desserts business Picard. But a drop in group earnings and a 2.5pc decline in organic revenues for the first quarter has not been inspiring. 3. AIB isn't much different to the other listed Irish banks when it comes to performance. As an investment proposition, things are not going to plan. The mortgage market is growing, but not nearly as quickly as they might have liked. This means banks have to squeeze more profit out of other parts of the business. Lending is becoming hard work. Having begun the year at a €3.64 share price, AIB is now down to around €3.19. Banks are struggling to look steady, never mind exciting, for investors. 4. Glanbia didn't look like it could put a foot wrong in recent years. Having made big inroads into the consumer nutritional snack market in the US, the share price just kept going up. But this year has been different. Higher input costs, currency changes and growing competition in the US market have all hurt the performance of the stock. A profit warning in July knocked 15pc off the share price. By late August, the price was down by 40pc since the start of 2019. In October, it took another one-day hit of 15pc after the firm said it faced "challenges" in its sports nutrition business. Glanbia will have to show in 2020 that this year was just a blip. The ugly 1. Who would have thought that the FAI was a financial basket case? Well, we all probably should have realised it to some extent because the figures just didn't add up. Now the association is facing a massive credibility crisis, as well as a financial one. Examinership, liquidation or some kind of bailout are all possibilities. Its shareholding in the Aviva Stadium could be taken over by the State as a way of reducing the FAI's debt mountain. Bear in mind, the stadium loses money and even with the loss of the shareholding, what assets will the association have when it needs to borrow more money in the future? 2. What a disastrous year for airline software group Datalex. It lost its chief executive. It lost its chairman. It lost one of its biggest customers. It lost its auditor, who wouldn't sign off on the accounts. An accounting scandal was at the heart of the problems which led to its shares being suspended in May. The future of Datalex has the initials 'DD' written all over it. Dermot Desmond has come to the rescue of the company by lending it several million, and he now owns 29pc of the firm. Desmond's loans to the business are not only secured on assets but also carry some tough performance clauses with them. Datalex will be deemed to be in default on Desmond's loans if its revenue or earnings are at least 20pc below forecasts, or if its net working capital is less than 80pc of projected figures, for two months in a row, according to a company circular to shareholders. 3. Tullow Oil has been an extraordinary Irish exploration company. It has seen massive sudden drops in the price of oil, along with lots of other setbacks in countries in Africa, where it does a lot of its business. Yet it has always responded effectively. This year, it was truly hit by a massive financial storm. It had to stop paying dividends, cut production guidance and remove its CEO after the share price plummeted by 72pc in one day. The stock is down around 75pc in total as the board comes to terms with oil production challenges and other delays with key projects. Its biggest shareholders jumped ship by selling off half their holding in Tullow. But up stepped Benin-born oil executive Samuel Dossou-Aworet, who bought up a chunk of shares to bring his holding to 7pc. He is a big believer in the company's ability to deal with its problems, and he has bought at what look like low prices - if he is right about the turnaround. Standard and Poor's downgraded Tullow's rating by one level to B, which is several rungs into junk status. The next 12 months will be crucial for Tullow Oil. Sunday Independent 
