business
{  
    January 02 2016 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/very-successful-year-for-the-leo-and-theres-more-to-come-34319057.html }
The sun is setting on a very busy and successful 2015 for the Local Enterprise Office (LEO) in Wicklow. After the torture of recession, Wicklow LEO saw for themselves the much talked about 'green shoots' in the economy spring into life in the Garden County.  In mid-2014, the LEOs nationwide formally came under the auspices of the Local Authorities and the Local Enterprise Office Wicklow is the 'First Stop Shop' government support agency in County Wicklow for small and medium businesses. Funded by the Department of Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation, LEO Wicklow has a strong local job creation goal and supports businesses in the county that wish to grow, export and create employment. Led by their Head of Enterprise, Sheelagh Daly, the Wicklow LEO team held dozens of events in 2015 to support this sector.   Among the branch's highlights of the year are the two very successful seminars it held. These were the 'Grow Your Business Open Day' in March and the 'Companies Act' Seminar in September, which both saw almost 150 business owners in attendence. LEO Wicklow's ever popular schedule of subsidised business training courses for SMEs continued, with over 400 participants.  Free one-to-one business advice meetings are a core activity at the LEO, and 370 business clients availed of these in 2015, with 50 clients going on to receive more extensive individual advice from a specialist business mentor. Financial support is a very important part of the LEOs role, and 26 businesses received direct investment in the form of grants to high potential, growing businesses based in the county.   The Local Enterprise Office can also help small businesses leverage financial support from other sources, such as MicrofinanceIreland and the Trading Online Vouchers (TOVs), which offer up to €2,500 in grant support toward any type of local business that plans to develop its ecommerce website.  County Wicklow businesses are embracing ecommerce with gusto, as demonstrated by the fact that ten per cent of the national allocation of vouchers went to Co Wicklow businesses alone! Youth entrepreneurship is another key area for LEO Wicklow, from the ongoing Schools Enterprise Programme, to the annual 'Ireland's Best Young Entrepreneur (IBYE)' Competition.   The team at LEO Wicklow were delighted to see 29-year-old James Keogh of Rathwood in south west Wicklow win the 'Best Established Business' award at the National Final of 'Ireland's Best Young Entrepreneur' competition, winning a €30,000 investment fund for his very successful business.   The food sector continues to flourish in the Garden County, and a dozen ambitious food business owners were supported as they began supplying SuperValu with their products through the Food Academy training programme, which took place in Spring 2015. Other initiatives from the bi-monthly Network of Entrepreneurial Women meetings, to supporting clients to attend Showcase, the National Ploughing Championships, and trade shows at home and overseas were  huge successes also. Far from resting on its laurels, the LEO team is looking forward to overseeing more new initiatives in 2016, including as a free monthly 'Business Loans' Workshop, a big seminar on the topic of 'The Internet of Things' for SMEs, and a new training course for hairdressers wishing to work in film/TV, which will be run in conjunction with the Wicklow Film Commission. The staff of LEO Wicklow would love to hear from businesses in the county that have plans to grow, innovate and create employment in 2016, along with individuals with an idea to start their own business.   To contact the local enterprise office, which is based in Rathnew, email enterprise@leo.wicklowcoco.ie or check out the website www.localenterprise.ie/wicklow.   The message from the team at Wicklow LEO is this: '2016 could be your year to follow your dreams and join the new wave of innovation happening in County Wicklow!' Wicklow People 
