business
{  
    February 22 2009 12:31 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/taxman-offers-crippled-firms-breathing-space-26515837.html }
Businesses crippled by the economic downturn are set to make an unlikely new friend — the relentless taxman has decided to give them a few months grace to pay their hefty tax bills. The Revenue Commissioners, with Josephine Feehily at its helm for about a year now, has a new approach for struggling businesses who cannot afford to pay their tax bills, which effectively allows some of them to get a tax reprieve. This is a new departure for the Revenue Commissioners, traditionally the most likely office to haul businesses through the courts over unpaid tax bills. Under the new approach, Revenue will allow businesses with cashflow difficulties to repay their tax bills in phases over an agreed timetable. Similar moves were made in Britain last November, when tax authorities there allowed struggling firms to defer their tax bills. “The current economic and financial environment is making it particularly difficult for some businesses and taxpayers to meet their tax obligations on time, even where they are fully committed to doing so and in more favourable economic and financial circumstances, did precisely that,” according to a Revenue paper on the new system. “Revenue is disposed to working with such businesses and taxpayers to find a way through these difficulties, provided there is a positive and honest engagement with Revenue and the fundamentals of the underlying business are sound.” The Revenue paper noted that some “financially viable” businesses and taxpayers had recently run into trouble paying their tax bills after bad debts — and late payment of bills by customers of the businesses — triggered cashflow difficulties. Collector-General Gerry Harrahill said that the Revenue is “sympathetic to occasional cashflow difficulties caused by exceptional events”. However, he added that “Revenue cannot and will not accept an ongoing failure to meet tax commitments and allow a business continue to trade and accumulate further debts to Revenue”. To avail of the tax reprieve, business must get in touch with Revenue as soon as they run into difficulties. They must also give a “clear outline” why they cannot repay their tax at that time. Businesses will have to pay interest on any deferred tax. Each request for a reprieve will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis. Brian Keegan, director of taxation with the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland (ICAI), said that “one of the consequences of our serious economic position is a likely decline in tax compliance levels”. Addressing the Dail Public Accounts Committee last week, Mr Keegan said: “Businesses are finding it hard to raise funds for every purpose, tax payments included”. A survey published by the Irish Small & Medium Enterprises Association (ISME) last week found that banks are turning down half of business loan applications, and are seeking personal guarantees for almost six out of 10 business loans. ISME called on the Government to introduce a loan guarantee scheme for small businesses to help them get their hands on much-needed cash. “Access to credit is still a significant issue for small and medium-sized businesses, with lack of credit a serious impediment to the day-to-day running of thousands of businesses,” said Mark Fielding, chief executive of ISME. “Many sound, profitable, long-standing businesses are finding it difficult to get access to bank credit. These businesses are experiencing increased cashflow problems, leading to many companies letting people go, and in many cases, closing down.” The British government recently launched a stg£1bn loan scheme intended to help small businesses. 
