business
{  
    March 30 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/ird-helps-give-small-businesses-an-even-break-27053444.html }
The first programme, Start your own Business, helps guide entrepreneurs through the difficult early stages of start-up and newly established business. Topics to be covered include: Sources of Finance, Business Planning, Bookkeeping, Taxation and Marketing. The second programme, Grow your own Business, is designed to assist small/medium firms progress by developing a growth st The first programme, Start your own Business, helps guide entrepreneurs through the difficult early stages of start-up and newly established business. Topics to be covered include: Sources of Finance, Business Planning, Bookkeeping, Taxation and Marketing. The second programme, Grow your own Business, is designed to assist small/medium firms progress by developing a growth strategy for their business. A series of workshops will run over several weeks to include, Taxation, VAT and VAT returns, Insurance for small businesses, Company Law and Directors Responsibilities, Sales Techniques, Risk Assessment and Health and Safety systems. To facilitate participants these courses will run at night. For further information on either of the above courses contact Catherine Crowley on 029 60633. However, training alone may not be enough to sustain small enterprises. One-to-one support from a business mentor can provide specific guidance to help identify and overcome obstacles that arise in business. IRD Duhallow’s Mentor Business Panel is comprised of a group of firmly established local business people who have volunteered their time and expertise to provide guidance and one-to-one consultations with a range of enterprises from the very new and very small to the larger more established enterprises. One-to-one support from a business mentor vastly increases an entrepreneur’s chance of survival. The best people to mentor small businesses are those who are business owners themselves, or who work closely with small businesses. IRD is always seeking out new volunteers to add to its mentor panel and to share their knowledge and experience with the budding entrepreneurs in the Duhallow area. If you would like to become a volunteer or access the Mentor Panel services contact Catherine Crowley, IRD Duhallow, on 029 60633. 
