business
{ By John Kennedy 
    April 12 2007 01:10 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/technology/rise-of-the-regions-26291086.html }
Armed with the internet, self-belief and a global vision, a new generation of regional Irish businesses is scoring export success Sisters-in-law Michelle and Carol Lynch are proof that you don’t have to be based in a city or any other large urban centre in Ireland to catch the attention and win the business of some of the world’s biggest companies. Their company, Crannagh Trade, was set up only a year ago and operates out of Belturbet in Cavan as a boutique firm of international trade tax advisers. It counts 14 Fortune 500 companies and five of the top private companies in the US as customers. Crannagh is just one example of a rising movement of young companies that through access to internet and email technologies can dare to fall back on a lifetime of career achievement to set up businesses in their home town. After one year in business, Crannagh is approaching €500,000 in revenues and employs six people, including one in the US. “Without tools like the internet none of this would have been possible,” Michelle says. “From the start we made an upfront investment of €28,000 in computers, servers and software.” Despite the ongoing epic that is Ireland’s difficulty with getting broadband to regional areas of Ireland, businesses that do get it are using it well, according to last week’s EU i2010 report. As a percentage of turnover, e-commerce stands at 16.7pc across Irish businesses, ahead of the EU average of 11.7pc. As well as this, 23.4pc of Irish enterprises claim to receive orders over the internet, ahead of the EU average of 13.9pc. “Regardless of the broadband issues, we are now a fairly progressive and innovative country, full of people aware of the opportunities technology provides,” says Loman O’Byrne, head of the e-business committee of the County Enterprise Boards. “It is no surprise to me that businesses in regional areas have found a way to make money by being online. We are seeing a growing array of new businesses in a variety of international markets enabled entirely by the opportunities ICT affords. “It is almost unheard of that you would not find an Irish business through a Google search,” O’Byrne continues, “whereas on a trip to France recently I was regularly drawing a blank trying to find small businesses online. That was one area of Europe where local businesses hadn’t cottoned on to the internet in the same way as Irish businesses.” In Crannagh’s case, both Michelle and Carol had built up highly successful careers and wanted a different lifestyle. Michelle, a barrister, worked as a lawyer for the World Trade Centre Association in New York, while Carol was formerly director of international customs and trade at KPMG. “My family was originally from Cavan and Carol was from Dublin,” explains Michelle. “We were at the stage in our lives where we were considering a move to Belturbet. Carol made the move first, and then I followed. We were attracted to the beautiful pace of life.” Crannagh’s business involves working with major multinationals and Irish businesses to sort out all the tax and legal documentation that comes with importing and exporting products into and out of Ireland as well as the complex paperwork on such high-value items as jet aeroplanes and helicopters. Neither Michelle nor Carol finds location an issue in the performance of their work. “It couldn’t have worked out more ideal, in the sense that the head of Her Majesty’s Customs for aircraft is based in Enniskillen, 20 minutes up the road,” says Michelle. “When we have the chief financial officer of a Fortune 500 company coming to visit we just say ‘Turn left at Dublin Airport and it’s less than two hours up the road’. It would take you that long to get to Sandyford most mornings from the airport anyway.” “Another way of looking at it,” explains Carol, “is that we are actually right in the middle between Dublin Airport and Belfast Airport. Our key tools of choice are phones and the internet. “When you look at what you do every day in the city, apart from maybe meeting clients, most of the day is spent talking on the phone or dealing with email. So it doesn’t really matter where you are based.” Another example of a fast-growth regional business with a relentless global vision is the Electronic Business School of Ireland (EBSI), an e-learning company based in Kiltimagh, Co Mayo. The company has signed up international trade development training deals with 50 governments around the world ranging from Mongolia and Uzbekistan to the Czech Republic and Ukraine. The company was founded in 1999 by international trade expert Vincent O’Brien and internet expert Thomas Smith and specialises in deploying blended learning in specialist areas of international trade over the internet. Their one-year International Trade Specialist Accreditation Programme is accredited in Ireland by the Irish Exporters Association. “From Kiltimagh we are working with the top international agencies in international trade, including the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and a subsection of the World Bank called the International Finance Corporation,” Smith explains. “We’ve been making strong inroads in the global community. We post out our course content from Kiltimagh Post Office and the students would then collaborate through our online campus. By the end of the year we will be delivering full course content via the internet.” Smith says the company is on target to reach €1m in revenues in the next two years. “We have been very focused on the former Soviet Union countries and are now expanding into Africa. The Americas also present an exciting growth opportunity for us.” He says the lack of broadband was a major inhibitor to growth until Eircom deployed broadband in Mayo in 2003. “Nearby another Irish company CMS Peripherals does a lot of online sales so there was demand for connectivity in the area.” Smith argues that EBSI’s regional location was actually a boost rather than an inhibitor to growth. “It has been a long, arduous journey but we have recognition internationally and this is starting to feed through in terms of revenues. Our location in Kiltimagh was vital because we don’t have as high a cost base as a more urban location.” The opposite, however, has been the case for technical writing and Irish language online bookstore owner Bárd na Gleann, which is based out of Béal Átha’n Ghaorthaidh (see panel). While the west Cork location was perfect in terms of accessing skills, lack of proper broadband in rural areas actually meant lost opportunities for the company that two years ago came fifth in the Deloitte Fast 50 meter of high-growth companies. “Technology was crucial for us, and I’m talking about connectivity not just the internet. We send large files around the world, nothing leaves by truck or mail,” says chief executive Tom Fitzgerald. “We grudgingly rely on DSL [digital subscriber line] broadband because the cost of leased lines is prohibitive. If we were based in an urban area it might be different.” He says lack of competition in the Irish telecoms market has been a real enemy of Irish business. Despite ordering a leased line in 2001 it has never been delivered and resulted in the loss of a client that would have brought revenues of almost €40,000 a month into the company. “We would still have that client to this day had we not failed to get broadband. Government policy has allowed this to happen. Our client was even willing to pay for the leased line. Had we been in Cork city there would have been no problem at all,” says Fitzgerald. For Cavan-based Crannagh, connectivity issues were initially a problem. “We found it appallingly difficult to get broadband but eventually got it resolved. The reality is computers, the internet and email are the life’s blood of any small business in Ireland today,” says Michelle. Carol says there’s evidence of growing numbers of seasoned professionals returning home and fulfilling their dreams of building world-focused companies. “Where we live we are seeing people setting up businesses and working globally. They are doing the work but are having a nice lifestyle too,” she concludes. Bard’s Tale Returning to the fields of Munster from Silicon Valley was always ex-pat Tom Fitzgerald’s dream. The dream became a reality when he set up Bárd na Gleann, an IT company headquartered in Béal Átha’n Ghaorthaidh in the west Cork Gaeltacht with offices in San José in California. Today the company employs 25 full-time staff and 15 contract workers, providing services to such major tech firms as Cisco, Teletech and Amdocs. The company has four key divisions: Bardwrite, which provides technical writing and project management services; Freastal, which provides Irish language translation to 60 government agencies and departments; an Irish language training service called Gaeltalk; and Litriocht, an e-commerce website selling Irish books. Fitzgerald’s experience with a US$250m company in Silicon Valley called TimeNet fuelled his belief that he could run a globalised company from the Gaeltacht. He put the base of contacts he built up over a decade in Silicon Valley to good work and by the time he returned to Ireland eight years ago had two contracts in the bag and set up Bárd. “Every business is different and you need to assess how critical a physical location is to what you do. My advice to anyone who wants to set up in a regional location is that if you’re determined to do something you can make it happen. “If you’ve built up a career and now want to be your own boss, contacts, networking and connections are vital.” © Silicon Republic Ltd 2007 All content copyright 2007, Silicon Republic Ltd — all rights reserved Email: 
editorial@siliconrepublic.com 
