business
{  
    November 25 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/news/women-in-business-network-holding-christmas-meeting-27614748.html }
The Christmas meeting of the Wicklow Women in Business Network takes place on Wednesday December 8 in the Druid's Glen Marriott Hotel. The speaker on the night on the topic of 'Women at the Top in Business Today' will be Aileen O'Toole, founding member of the Sunday Business Post and managing director of Amas Ltd. The Christmas meeting of the Wicklow Women in Business Network takes place on Wednesday December 8 in the Druid's Glen Marriott Hotel. The speaker on the night on the topic of 'Women at the Top in Business Today' will be Aileen O'Toole, founding member of the Sunday Business Post and managing director of Amas Ltd. Aileen O'Toole is an award winning business journalist who began her journalistic career with Business and Finance magazine. In the early eighties, Aileen was the only female business journalist on the circuit. At 29 years of age, she became editor of Business and Finance Ð the youngest editor of a national title and indeed, the only female editor in the country. She repositioned the publication to focus more on medium sized businesses, before leaving to found the hugely successful Sunday Business Post. Aileen is an active committee member of the International Women's Forum (IWF). She was very involved in writing the recently published report entitled 'Women and Corporate Governance in Ireland' which examines attitudes to women in the business community and gives some fascinating insights into male views on women's networks, amongst other issues. She recently founded Amas Ltd., a company which helps clients to create dynamic online relationships with customers and other audiences. At the Women in Business Network meeting she will be discussing how women can get to the top in business circles and also her top tips for success in running a small business. The talk gets underway at 7.30 p.m. and will be followed by members' discussion and networking at a Christmas cheese and wine reception. The Women in Business Network is aimed at female owner-managers of small businesses in County Wicklow. The business, employing 10 or more people, must be up and running and not at the planning stage. Women who wish to join should contact the network coordinator, Jennifer McConnell on (01) 4197000 or email jennifermcconnell@rhconsult.ie. 
