business
{  
    February 27 2008 12:23 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/education/exam-brief/business-questions-and-answers-26426480.html }
CLI – HE – 2003 CLI – HE LTD. Cli – He is a new brand name in childrens’ toys and games business. The name is also that of a new business venture that Clodagh has recently established. An engineering graduate with a flair for design, she has, to her credit, won two innovation awards for product development in recent years. Clodagh sees a bright future for a business with original ideas in the growing childrens’ leisure business. The challenges of setting up a new business venture however are very significant, especially where to find the necessary resources and expertise. Clodagh plans to market the Cli – He brand to a niche segment of the “green” market. This niche market is made up of environmentally conscious consumers, with high disposable income who have young families. The price of Cli – He products will reflect this environmental premium but the range will not, however, be as high as its competitors’ products. Clodagh plans that the business will be environmentally conscious in all its production methods and will use raw materials that are sensitive to the environment. Its marketing will make this green image clear to customers. The Irish base for this new business start – up has been agreed with Enterprise Ireland. Future plans include marketing its products into Europe, the United States of America and other parts of the world through the use of the internet. Clodagh feels that on – line trading is the way of the future and is a suitable way to market her new product range to her target market. QUESTION Describe how Clodagh can ensure that Cli – He is an environmentally conscious company? (30 marks). SOLUTION The question is 30 marks, so I have to give 5 detailed bullet points (6 marks each) on how Cli – He can become environmentally friendly and link my answers to the text with references and quotes. ? Management Commitment ? Explain It – Clodagh must exhibit high levels of personal commitment concerning environmental issues. She must ensure “Chi – He” is committed to do things in the most effective and efficient “environmentally friendly” way. ? References – Socially Responsible Management like Clodagh who act as role models and set an ethical, caring culture within their firms “Clodagh plans that the business will be environmentally conscious”. ? Recycling / Waste Management ? Explain It – Chi – He must minimise bad waste disposal practice and Clodagh houlsd encourage a sorting system for the raw material, paper and glass waste from Chi – He “production methods”. ? References – This recycling will help Clodagh establish a “niche segment of the green market” and will appeal to the “environmentally conscious consumers with high disposable incomes”. ? Environmental Impact Audits (EU Eco Audit Scheme) / Social Study ? Explain It – Cli – He Ltd should conduct a Social Audit (EU Eco Audit Scheme) which is an independent study of the social impact of the Cli –He Ltd activities on the range of stakeholders affected by the firm’s operations and the assessment Cli - He Ltd commitment to being “sensitive to the environment”. ? References – Clodagh must conduct an EU Audit on the impact of her new “environmentally conscious firm” and the impact of “the new Irish base for this new business start up” on the local environment and community. ? The EU Eco audit should also focus on the environmental impact of her “childrens toys and games business”. ? Since Clodagh wishes to “marketing its (Cli – He) products into Europe” an EU Eco audit is vital for Cli – He Ltd to carry out, to ensure a “green image”. ? Sustainable Development ? Explain It – Clodagh must adopt environmentally friendly “production methods” of using the planets resources to provide for the needs of the present generation, without damaging the planet for future generations. ? References – Clodagh must ensure the machinery she purchases for “the new Irish base” is clean, quiet and efficient. She has negotiated and could look for grants to help her achieve this, by generating a “green” image in her “niche market” by purchasing wood pellet heating systems and solar panels to generate power and heating. She can also ensure a sustainable development for Cli – He Ltd as she “ will use raw materials that are sensitive to the environment”. Clodagh should reject excess packaging on her products. ? Shares and Consults / Transparency ? Explain It – Cli – He Ltd must be transparent and honest about environmentally issued and Clodagh should not hide industrial accidents behind barbwire walls and closed doors. ? References – Clodagh should be ready to listen and engage new methods and new ideas on environmental issues she may learn from “Enterprise Ireland” or over the “Internet”. Clodagh must consults with all interested parties such as the “environment conscious consumers and Enterprise Ireland” when developing new plans such as, “marketing its (Cli – He) products into Europe, United States of America and other parts of the world through the use of the internet”. Unit 1 ? Unit 1 has a central theme of business relationships. You will study the relationship between the different stakeholders that all have distinct roles to play in the business. The examiner will expect you to be able to illustrate co – operative, competitive, and dynamic relationships with in the enterprise. ? The Law of Contract will form a legally binding relationship. With Industrial Relations and Consumer Laws you will investigate co – operative and competitive relationship that exist between the enterprise and its employees and with its consumers. Evaluate is a major verb in Unit 1. PEOPLE IN BUSINESS Describe the competitive and co – operative relationships that exist typically between Mecca and other businesses organisations. (20 marks) – 2004 20 marks question, you must give 4 detailed bullet points outlining the relationships within Mecca Enterprises. This long question is a mini applied business question in unit 1 and you must refer to the paragraph in your answer The Chief executive of Mecca Enterprises, a national firm in the leisure business, believes that good relationships, which help in resolving situations of conflict between business organisations, are most important. At present, however, she feels that there is a very high risk of ongoing conflict into the future. ? Co – operative Relationship exists where joint effort is required so people can work in unison to everyone’s benefit. ? Mecca will have a co – operative relationship with its suppliers who provided the leisure equipment for Mecca receiving the equipment on credit with discounts and paying for it on time. Mecca may also have a co – operative relationship with media as it uses media outlets to promote Mecca to its target market. ? Competitive Relationship means the firm is trying to achieve its goals at the expense of the other stakeholders (Win/Lose Situation). ? Mecca will have a competitive relationship with other leisure business in the area as it competes over price, quality of service, market share, sales and with promotional campaigns to gain new customers. ? Businesses like Mecca therefore operate in a mixture of competitive and co-operative relationships with their stakeholders. Co – operating in research and development, marketing alliances, distribution and storage arrangement for their mutual benefit, yet competition occurs in areas concerning price (predatory pricing), sales, market share and advertising (competitive advertising) with its competition in the leisure industry UNIT 3 ? Unit 3 central theme is management. Student must be familiar with the management skills of communication, leading and motivating and the management activities of planning, organising and controlling. MANAGEMENT SKILLS Illustrate the importance of the management skills in the home, local community, Government department or in setting up a new business? (20 marks) – 2002 You must illustrate with examples the 3 management skills in action in one of the above options. 3 bullet points for 20 marks, therefore the marking scheme will be (7,7,6) ? Management is the process of planning goals and achieving these goals through the use of their skills, staff, equipment and the financial resources available to them. ? A skill is the ability to do a task expertly. The management skills are leading, motivating and communicating (define them if time). ? In the home the management skill of leadership is essential, as the parents act as role models for their children and influence their children to achieve their fully potential. The parents will lead the family through bad times and into good times. ? Democratic leadership will be used as the family consult before major decisions are made, and trust will be shown as the parents delegate roles to their children. Autocratic leadership maybe adopted when children need to be reprimanded. Free rein leadership will be adopted as the children get older and the parents set general guidelines, but allow the children the freedom to achieve their own goals without to much interference. ? Motivation is demonstrated in the household, as the parents inspire and energise their children to achieve their full potential in life. Maslow can be seen to be used as parents praise their children, give them responsibilities and create a sense of belonging in the house for the family. By providing shelter, security and food the families needs are satisfied. ? McGregor can be seen to operate in the household as the parents treat the children in a positive theory Y manner, thereby motivating their behaviour and increasing their commitment so family goals are achieved. ? Communication is essential to the family household, to ensure disputes are resolved quickly. Meetings are used to find out family members opinions, to plan and gather information before decisions are taken, and to air grievances. Barriers to family communications are eliminated (padding, jargon, not listening), to ensure effective family communication at all times. The appropriate method of communication is always chosen to avoid conflict. ? Feedback is used to clear up misunderstandings. Memos are used for short messages and letters are filled out to receive grants from government or to apply for insurance. Speeches are used and prepared in advance at family gatherings like weddings. In the modern world the internet is becoming an important communication tool within the family unit. UNIT 6 ? The central theme of Unit 6 is the Domestic Scene. Students must be familiar with issues such as, Ethics, Government and the Economy and Community Development. ? Contrast, Compare and Analyse are importance verbs in Unit 6. BUSINESS ORGANISATIONS Contrast an Alliance with a Franchise. (30 marks) – 2003 30 marks, so give 5 detailed bullet points (6 marks each). The verb is contrast so show the differences between both organisational structures. 1. Both are formed by a contract, however alliances tend to be short term in nature, such as a Disney and MacDonald’s alliance which will last the duration of the film. Franchises are long term contracts between the Franchiser and the Franchisee, where the Franchisee is given the licence to sell the product under the Franchise brand name, such as MacDonald’s. 2. A business alliance is a relationship forged between the enterprises and despite the fact that the firm are still independent, a bond or link is created to unite them to promote the business interests of both and they work together as equal partners free of charge. A Franchise in contrast, occurs when the Franchisee asks for permission and pays the Franchiser an initial fee of as much as € 250,000 for permission to use the brand name so they are not two equals, as the Franchiser has most of the power. 3. The Franchisee must follow the strict rules in the contract, such as a KFC Licence will not allow the Franchisee to sell any food other than poultry, so with a Franchisee there are many restrictions on the Franchisee. In an alliance they are no initial restrictions as both parties in the alliance draw up the contract in terms that suit each of their goals. 4. High standards of the franchise must be maintained, yet if an individual outlet damages the reputation/brand name, then all franchises consequently will be damaged for the following weeks, such as an individual Burger King having poor hygiene standards published in a newspaper, all Burger Kings suffer. In the alliance if one of the firms damages their reputation the other firm will simply break the alliance without any damage done to its reputation. 5. Franchises benefit from economies of scale as the franchiser due to the centralised purchasing of stock. Promotional Alliance occur when the firms in the alliance promote each others goods, such as MacDonald’s and Disney to increase their sales, yet the economies of scale are not as significant as those enjoyed by a Franchisee. UNIT5 ?The central theme of unit 5 is marketing. The process of identifying customers needs and then producing the correct product, at an appropriate price, promoted in a manner that will reach and appeal to the target market and sold in the correct place, so customers need sare satisfied. Break even analysisis in this unit and student must practice this question regularly. MARKETING MIX Evaluate the Marketing Mix for a Product of your choice. (30 marks) The examiner wanted 4 bullet point (Marking Scheme 7,7,6,6). You must illustrate for a product of your choice, so you must use and develop the same example in each bullet point. You must give your opinion on each element of the Marketing Mix. PRODUCT Louis Cartier pens – target market are business people and professionals. Product ? Produced in metallic and silver (gold and silver colours give an exclusive image). ? The product is produced mainly in black ink (blue rarely). ? It is recyclable (refills – eco friendly). ? It has a high quality Brand name, to appeal to businesspeople. ? In its lifecycle, the average Cartier pen has 1 owner and a guarantee given. ? Cartier pens are packaged in luxurious and expensive wooden boxes, to give a high quality image. ? In my opinion the product looks executive and has an expensive and luxurious brand name that will appeal to the target market, helping Cartier achieve its goals. The metallic high quality of the pen will appeal to business people because it will make them professional looking in board meetings. Price ? The price is the value placed on the product in the market place. ? The Cartier Fountain pen has a high price of €1,150.00, to give them an exclusive image and a psychological ego boost to the purchaser (premium pricing). ? In my opinion this high price strategy will help increase the sales of Cartier pens, as it gives the pen a premium image and exclusive which will appeal to the high income target market. Promotion ? Cartier relies on persuasive advertising to communicate to its target market and generate sales. ? Cartier advertises in business magazines like the Economist and on in – flight magazines, to capture the business class section of most commercial flights (and often in cinemas). ? Merchandising is vital for Cartier as they display their pens in luxurious rotating glass boxes cabinets. ? In my opinion advertising in the Economist and on in – flight magazines is an effective promotional strategy by Cartier as they will reach their target market through these specific mediums. Place ? Cartier pens are sold in exclusive jewellery shops (by–passing the wholesaler) or specialised city centre pen shops in luxurious surrounding in both cases. ? Cartier pens are also sold on commercial flights, to their target market sitting in the business class section of the plane. ? In my opinion selling the Cartier pens in luxurious jewellery shops will appeal to the target market and by selling their product on commercial flights to the business class is an effective strategy, as business people return home from a success contract negotiation may reward themselves with a Cartier pen. UNIT 7 ? The central theme in Unit 7 is the international scene. Students must be able to back up each point with an example of how it affects Irish businesses. GLOBAL MARKETING Discuss the Role / Importance of Global Marketing for Irish Business? (20 marks) – 2004 20 marks, Define Global marketing and give 4 Bullet Points required and students must relate global marketing to the Irish economy. 1. Globalization – Is a modern strategy that Irish firm must understand to compete in the modern business environment. The world is viewed as a single market by global firms, who produce and sell goods and services in the same way worldwide, regardless of culture, traditions, language or characteristics of the local market, by concentrating on the similarities between people worldwide (common global needs) and produce a product to satisfy these global needs successfully. 2. Economies of Scale – Irish firms must understand the importance that if they go global, they will enjoy economies of scale, such as mass production, continuous production lines, bulk buying discounts, and cheap labour and lower construction costs. Irish Distillers Ltd., enjoys economies of scale as it exports 1 million cases of Jameson Whiskey worldwide. 3. Global Adaption to Ensure Success and No Offence – However Irish firms must understand the importance that global firms do accept that the world market is not totally homogeneous and realize that some of their products need small changes to suit a specific global market or to ensure certain global cultures are not offended (product adaption). The Irish brand of Alcohol Irish Mist had to adapt its name to suit the German market. 4. Management Activities – Irish firms must understand the importance of globally planning, globally organizing (video conferencing) and globally controlling all their activities on a global basis, such as the Quinn Groups’ recruitment of staff is planned and advertised on a global basis by using international magazines like the Economist, to ensure Irish global firms have access to the world premium personnel. 5. Global Brand – Global firms products are globally marketed under the one common global brand (Nike Air, Apple i– pods). The global firm tries to supply identical products under the one brand name to the global market place. Such as Waterford Crystal, which sells its product range under the family brand name in top department stores in more than 70 countries (It has become one of Irelands greatest consumer exports). 
