business
{  
    July 01 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/waste-from-businesses-could-be-recycled-says-report-27772743.html }
SWORDS Fingal Chamber of Commerce has published the results of a study into the 35 tonnes of waste produced by businesses in the area, on a weekly basis.The Swords Business Waste Characterisation Study set out to establish the volume and composition of business waste in the Swords area. SWORDS Fingal Chamber of Commerce has published the results of a study into the 35 tonnes of waste produced by businesses in the area, on a weekly basis. The Swords Business Waste Characterisation Study set out to establish the volume and composition of business waste in the Swords area. Pat McNamara, President of Swords Fingal Chamber of Commerce, welcomed the publication of the study and said: ‘The management and recycling of waste is a major issue use for business and Swords Fingal Chamber of Commerce is delighted to be publishing the results of the Swords Business Waste Characterisation Study which it is hoped will lead to increased awareness and a better understanding of the scale of the problem.’ The chamber and Friends of the Earth sent out letters and questionnaires to all of the retail businesses in the Swords area asking them to detail the volume and types of waste they produce. Almost 20 per cent of the businesses responded and 469 businesses took part in the wider survey, monitoring their waste management over a two week period. The survey found that businesses in Swords produce approximately 35 tonnes of waste every week but almost half of this total is easily recyclable material like paper and cardboard. It is this statistic that offers room for the greatest improvement according to the study. Cardboard recycling is already high in Swords with almost half of the businesses surveyed, recycling cardboard. The record on the recycling of paper is less impressive with only 16 per cent of businesses recycling their paper waste. The provision of bring centres and collection systems for recycling is identified in the study as a major priority and recommends that a feasibility study on the provision of such facilities, be carried out. The chambers states in the study: ‘Given the expressed wishes of firms, a centrally located reception and transfer facility would seem likely to be especially valued and used by local firms.’ Awareness of recycling and waste management also needs to be raised according to the survey. Some 70 per cent of the respondents to the survey said they would benefit from more information on the issue. But businesses in Swords are interested in recycling, according to the study. ‘In interviews virtually all businesses expressed support for recycling,’ it states. The rising costs of waste collection was identified as a growing concern for business. Some 30 per cent of the interviewees said that they recycle for financial reasons. The chamber intends to use the study to develop waste management action plans for Swords businesses and to work with service providers to improve waste management in the area. The report states: ‘It is hoped that these detailed findings will reveal scope and opportunities for the further development of cost efficient waste recovery systems which are valued and used by the business community, which divert waste from landfill and conserve our shared environment.’ The study was carried out by Swords Fingal Chamber of Commerce in association with Repak, the Department of Environment, Friends of the Earth and with the support of Fingal County Council. 
