business
{  
    March 14 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/unique-website-puts-sligo-businesses-on-the-map-27531226.html }
IN a unique concept identified as a major boost for Sligos commercial, retail and services sectors, the vast majority of local businesses are now mapped online and feature on a comprehensive business directory website.Jobsoxo.com was established by John MacDermott of Strandhill and with Richard Mulligan of Kilmacowen providing the technical, programming and graphics ex  IN a unique concept identified as a major boost for Sligo’s commercial, retail and services sectors, the vast majority of local businesses are now mapped online and feature on a comprehensive business directory website. Jobsoxo.com was established by John MacDermott of Strandhill and with Richard Mulligan of Kilmacowen providing the technical, programming and graphics expertise, the site continues to expand with a county by county facility coming on stream. With 10,000 Sligo pages, jobsoxo.com is now the largest Sligo directory. Since it was set up last February, fifty percent of the then 700 business on jobsoxo.com could be found in a top ten Google search by December.  Vision Two months later, the number of businesses listed has spiralled by 350% to reach 2,700. “The vision of jobsoxo is not only to have the best and most comprehensive business directory, but to have the most user friendly one as well,” John explained. When a user chooses a business on jobsoxo, he or she can view its exact location on a map. “Sligo was the first county to be mapped and we are delighted at how things have gone. On jobsoxo you can search county by county and category by category. “You can locate businesses by name in quick view. You can search by town, village and even town land in list view. You even have the option of finding all businesses of one category on one map. This means you can log on and locate all the restaurants in Sligo, or all the bed and breakfast outlets, or hairdressers and more,” said John. A retired Regional Youth Officer with Foroige, John ran a health and nutrition and life management business as he got the idea for jobsoxo.  Concept “It was my concept and my idea and I then approached Richard and we put it into being. I wanted a quality service and one that would help people find the quality services and business we have to offer,” John added. “A lot of businesses don’t have a web presence and we now give them that facility,” he said. Those who don’t have an online presence can have a viable, working web facility within twenty-four to forty-eight hours, if they meet the standards required of those taking out a jobsoxo profile. Online purchasing facilities can also be built-in if required. ‘Full profiles’ allows businesses to have their own personal password which allows them log on and change their profile any time they wish. “A box ad on jobsoxo give logos, links and business details, as well as adequate space to give an effective description of the business,” John outlined. This description and business details can be changed with an e.mail to info@jobsoxo.com.  Details “If your details are not yet on jobsoxo you can contact us or go online and enter them yourself,” John advised businesses. Each advertisement will have a map line through which site visitors can find particular businesses. “A map link can be put on stationary, emails etc., so that someone on the telephone asking directions can be offered a simple online map,” John added. Jobsoxo.com is a growing county by county directory which features details of everything from manufacturing outlets to plumbers, painters, pubs and carpet cleaners and from certified organic products to locally produced crafts. A deeper look into the online magazine reveals that is also contains details on voluntary and charitable groups, local entertainment, and open forum, and an online art and music gallery.   John MacDermott can be contacted at 071-91-68159 or at info@jobsoxo.com 
