business
{  
    August 23 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/college-places-up-for-grabs-26112265.html }
Lack of qualified applicants leaves vacancies on 60 courses MORE than 60 third level courses - many leading to high paying jobs - have been left with vacancies because of a shortage of qualified applicants. It is estimated that there are hundreds of unfilled places on a range of CAO degree and diploma/certificate courses in universities, private colleges and institutes of technology. The gaps appeared after the CAO sent out first round offers to almost 50,000 students this week. An applicant's inability to meet the minimum entry requirements - such as an honour in higher level maths - or a failure in English, Irish or any level of maths rules them out of consideration for a particular course. Business degree and diploma courses in private colleges feature heavily on the list of those facing empty desks when the new term begins. But a wide range of courses in the institutes of technology have also been badly hit by the shortage of properly qualified students. UCC's food process engineering course, for which an honour in higher level maths is a minimum requirement, is also left with places to fill, possibly as a consequence of the disappointing results in maths this year. Second round offers are made to the next qualified applicant on the waiting list if slots remain open after round one. But vacant places arise because there are no further qualified applicants on the waiting list. As a result, vacant places are up for grabs and those interested in applying may do so immediately. As a first step, any interested party should check with the appropriate admissions office to ensure they meet the minimum entry requirements. Then anyone who has already gone through the CAO process should notify the organisation of their application numbers and indicate their interest in a vacant place. Anyone who did not apply to CAO this year may do so now. Applications for a vacant place may also be made on the CAO website, which will update the list overnight until the middle of October. The list of degree courses on which vacant places exist: Athlone Institute of Technology - Polymer Technology; UCC - food processing engineering; American College Dublin - liberal arts (English, history or international relations), international business (management or marketing), international tourism, behavioural science (psychology), behavioural science (applied social studies); Dublin Business School - business studies, accountancy and finance, business studies (marketing); Griffith College Dublin - accounting and finance, law with business; LSB College - anthropology, arts (general), arts (psychology), business (marketing); Portobello College Dublin - accounting and finance, business information management, business studies, marketing, human resource management; UCD - arts (evening course); Letterkenny Institute of Technology - computing with data communications. Diploma/certificates: Athlone Institute of Technology - business studies (Cavan), office information systems (Cavan), front office administration, hotel/catering supervision, plastics engineering, mechanical engineering, mineral engineering, science (applied biology), science (applied chemistry), professional accountancy, accounting technician, equine studies; Burren College of Art - fine art; American College - humanities; Dublin Business School - business studies (accounting), business studies (marketing), business studies (computer applications); Griffith College - legal studies, business studies, computing; Tallaght Institute of Technology - engineering (microelectronics & semi-conductor manufacturing); LSB College - arts (cultural studies), computing/IT, business studies; Portobello College - computing, business studies, business studies (accounting and financial services), business studies (computer applications), business studies (marketing); Galway/Mayo Institute of Technology - hospitality information technology; Letterkenny Institute of Technology - aquatic science, accounting technician, electronic engineering, mechanical engineering, chemistry, environmental engineering; Shannon College of Hotel Management - business studies (international hotel management); Tralee Institute of Technology - mechanical engineering. 
