business
{ Sean Gallagher 
    December 13 2014 05:54 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/new-career-move-was-frankie-sheahans-lineout-of-a-lifetime-30833521.html }
Around the world, sport has grown to become an important part of everyday life. We play it, follow it and talk about. It has the potential to inspire individuals, unite communities and even lift the spirits of entire nations. Many young people dream of becoming a professional player and of following in the footsteps of their childhood heroes. However, even for those who manage to make sport their career, there is the constant challenge to perform, to grapple with defeat, and to deal with injuries that have the potential to bring their careers to a sudden halt. But no matter how well a person performs or how hard they work, there will inevitably come a point when it's time to ceremoniously hang up their boots. And when that time comes, there is a natural transition that must take place and an adjustment to a less competitive lifestyle. For most who haven't managed to accumulate enough money to retire, there are the challenges of finding a follow-on career that offers fulfilment and which will enable them to provide financially for themselves and their families. One man who knows better than most about coping with the transition from sports star to businessman is former Munster and Ireland rugby player Frankie Sheahan. With offices in Dublin, Cork and London, Frankie now runs a successful speaker bureau business, aptly named, Front Row. He sources speakers in the area of leadership, motivation and entertainment for corporate events such as conferences, product launches and staff training programmes. While many of the speakers come from the world of sport, such as rugby coach Joe Schmidt, boxing coach Billy Walsh and former players like Brian O'Driscoll, Frankie also works with a lot of recognised faces from the world of business. And among the entertainers he books are household names like Oliver Callan, Mario Rosenstock, Pat Shortt and Alan Shortt. As part of his business, Frankie also runs a sports management agency, representing professional rugby players and sports stars such as Munster's Stephen Archer and James Cronin. As a retired professional athlete himself, he now draws on that experience to help advise and mentor players on issues such as contract negotiation, product endorsement and wealth management. "The life span of a player can be short, so it's important that they are able to maximise their income during their playing careers," insists Frankie. When I met up with Frankie earlier this week, he and his staff were preparing for the busiest time of their year, the run up to their second annual Pendulum Summit which takes place in Dublin in January and he tells me what it's all about. "Essentially it's a hybrid between a business and a self-empowerment summit. We bring together speakers from around the world who share their unique and inspiring stories about what has been the secret to success in their lives," explains Frankie. Looking through the event programme, I see that the headline speaker for this year's summit is Deepak Chopra - a global force in the world of human development and author of more than 80 books. There are many others on the list too, such as Keith Ferrazzi, one of America's top thought leaders on business, and Jack Black, founder of Mindstore International and one of Europe's leading authorities on personal development. Closer to home, Taoiseach Enda Kenny will be speaking along with other well-known names such as Patrick Coveney from Greencore and Willie Walsh from British Airways as well as adventurer and explorer Pat Falvey. "Given everything that Ireland has come through in recent years, I wanted to put together an event that would help rekindle a more positive sense of ourselves and our potential," explains Frankie earnestly. Like most people, Frankie Sheahan has faced his own share of challenges - both in sport and life. Born in Canada, Frankie's family returned to their native Cork when he was still very young. His father worked in the property business as well as being an estate agent. Even in his teens, Frankie showed an aptitude for business when he began helping out in his father's business as well as organising teenage discos in his local area. After school, Frankie did a degree in Economics at University College Cork. While he considered a career in business, his first true passion was rugby. "I simply adored it. I even dreamed of someday being able to get paid to play the game," he explains. The universe duly stepped in to play its part because, as he was finishing college, rugby turned professional for the first time and Frankie was offered a part-time contract as a professional. "I can clearly remember making my debut appearance for Munster in 1996 and while at £7,500 a year, it wasn't a huge amount of money, it really was a dream come true for me," he explains. For Frankie, the next 14 years were taken up with rugby - playing it, training for it, thinking about it. His distinguished career saw him play for Munster 163 times, as well as 29 times for Ireland. However, having suffered a serious injury, in 2009 his career was brought to a sudden end - and he was forced to retire from the sport he loved so much. He was only 33-years-old. He began doing rugby commentary part-time for RTE, Sky and BBC. However, married by then and with a young family to provide for, Frankie needed to find a new full-time career. For a time, he considered joining his brother Joey in his mortgage and financial services business - but by that time the property crash was in full tilt. To add to his woes, Frankie himself, who had invested in property in an effort to create financial security after he retired, now found himself in serious negative equity. He knew he had to do something else. Combining his love of sport with his love of business, he came up with the idea to start a sports management company. Later the same year, having been asked to speak at a number of corporate events himself and being asked to help source other well-known speakers, he set up his Front Row speaker bureau. "I guess like many other business start-ups, I didn't really plan it that way. It just developed organically," admits Frankie. "The same was true when my wife Norma and I came up with the idea for the Pendulum Summit. I had always had an interest in personal development and self-empowerment. My father was a sharp businessman while my mother was a counsellor and I started to think of an idea that could bridge both business and personal development. And that's when we came up with the idea for the summit," he adds. However, pulling together a large scale project was a big risk. Frankie knew he would have to find a strong headline act - and found it in Chris Hadfield, a retired Canadian astronaut who was the first Canadian to walk in space. He then gradually built out the programme with other speakers. A week after launching the event, he had only three tickets sold and began to panic. It was now sink or swim for Frankie. "It was exhilarating and terrifying in equal measure," he admits. "I never worked so hard in my life," he recalls. "And I was never so happy when all 600 tickets sold out in the week before the event. As an experience, it was right up there with winning my first cap in rugby," he adds with a big smile. What pleased him most was the positive feedback and testimonials he received from many who attended the event about how it had helped them both in their personal lives and in their businesses. Frankie also admits that being in business for yourself can often be a lonely experience and counts himself lucky to have had his father and brothers to bounce ideas off. "The biggest challenge you face when you retire from playing is that you are no longer constantly surrounded by teammates and coaches. You quickly realise that you are now on your own and that you have to build your own team around you. That can be a major adjustment. I am fortunate now to have a loyal and committed staff," admits Frankie. "But I think all players could really benefit from some type of mentoring support to help them make the transition," he adds. The one similarity, however, between business and sport is that you still have to work hard and fight for every opportunity. "The only thing that changes is that instead of yards on the field, it's about getting that meeting, securing that order or making that sale," he explains. What about the future of the agency, I ask. "I hope to continue to build and expand Front Row as a leading international speakers bureau. I have also had enquiries to bring the Pendulum Summit to other European countries as well as to the Middle East," he tells me excitedly. Frankie Sheahan is a man with heart. He is a man who has found a new passion and a new purpose - to help inspire and empower others. Never afraid to put in the effort on the rugby field, today he displays that same level of commitment in the world of business. As I wrap up my meeting with Frankie, and knowing his love of inspirational quotes, I share with him the words of the famous American football player and coach Lou Holtz, when he said: "How you respond to the challenges in the second half will determine what you become after the game, and whether you are a winner or a loser." I think that Frankie Sheahan is only starting out on the second half of his life - and I am completely sure that he has everything it takes to succeed in business, just as he did on the pitch. Front Row & the Pendulum Summit at 13 Upper Baggot St, D4. Tel: (01) 6853370 or at 51 South Mall, Cork. Tel: (021) 427 8467 www.pendulumsummit.com www.frontrow.ie. Being an entrepreneur  isn't for everyone. "Not everyone is suited to the life of an entrepreneur. It can sometimes be a lonely journey and you have to be comfortable to live with risk. If you are going into business for yourself, find something you love and have a genuine passion for." Don't be afraid to go back to the start and retrain "If you have to make a transition in your life, don't be afraid to start again. Don't be afraid to retrain in a new trade or to return to full- or part-time education. It can open your mind to new opportunities and new possibilities." Don't waste valuable time you can't get back "Lots of us spend time in airports, waiting for taxis or between meetings. Why not use this time to read or study a book on business or personal development. Instead of wasting time, invest it in improving your greatest asset, yourself." Sunday Indo Business 
