business
{  
    March 13 2013 03:19 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/enniscorthyguardian/lifestyle/q-i-have-a-business-idea-can-you-tell-me-how-do-i-go-about-developing-it-29109054.html }
Get the business plan right This is a very important document because the process of putting it together covers so many vital research areas – what product/service you are going to offer, how you will structure your company, who your customers are, who your competitors are, your marketing plan, your operational set up, sales targets and forecasts, cash flow and financial requirements. The business plan should be continuously reviewed and updated before, during and after set up. It is particularly important to keep an eye on finances as any changes in costs or selling price can have a serious knock on impact on profitability. Explore investment and funding Government bodies offering financial support include Enterprise Ireland (www.enterprise-ireland.com) and the county and city enterprise boards (www.enterpriseboards. ie), while the private not-for-profit organization, First-Step Microfinance, provides loans to start up or expand new businesses (www.first-step.ie). Another option is to look for start-up capital from an investor – either an individual (a business angel) or a venture capital company. The Angel Investment Network is a web-based matching service for entrepreneurs and individuals seeking investment opportunities, while the Halo Business Angels Partnership is a nationwide service matching private investors with business investment opportunities. Businesses with high growth potential and requiring larger amounts of investment might require venture capital support and a good place to start researching the possibilities is the Irish Venture Capital Association. Benefit from other people's expertise Talking to other experienced business people can be a great help in terms of learning from their mistakes and benefiting from their contacts, as well as providing a good base for market research. The enterprise boards run a mentoring programme, in which experienced business practitioners are matched with small business owners who need practical and strategic one-to-one advice, as well as business networking events. The local chamber of commerce is another good source of networking; there is Network Ireland for women in business (www.networkireland. ie); BNI Ireland facilitates networking and business referrals; and Small Business Can is an online forum for networking and information sharing among small and start-up businesses (www.smallbusinesscan.com). Get fit for business Look at your own skills, knowledge and contacts in relation to running a business and plug the gaps. The enterprise boards offer a wide range of low cost business courses, from direct selling to credit control and including a practical start your own business course that covers all the basics. Enniscorthy Guardian 
