business
{  
    April 18 2013 03:01 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/small-business/problem-solver-a-similar-business-in-a-nearby-county-is-going-bust-should-i-buy-it-29204637.html }
<strong>Q:</strong> I have set up a company selling software and things are going well. I see a company in a neighbouring county is in trouble and may go bust. I'm interested in buying the company. Do you think I'm better off waiting until it goes to the wall or stepping in now? Or do you think I'm crazy? I have read academic research that says it is never a good idea to buy companies and organic expansion is best. Any advice would be welcome. A: This is a difficult question to answer without all the facts, but here are some initial thoughts. Organic growth is great and of course is the preferred route as you don't have to part with any of your hard-earned money. However, the decision can very often be down to the time it will take you to organically grow to a significant level versus buying market share through acquisitions. Certainly at the early stages you may find it a slow process to grow the business on your own. In Superquinn we added a new shop every few years once the previous ones were trading well, which was a slow process and it wasn't until later in the life of the business that we were able to accelerate that process. It's not just the cash-flow issues that you need to consider. There are lots of other things to think about, like the ability of your own management team to integrate the new business into the structure, the compatibility of systems and processes, the cultures within both organisations and the likely reaction of your customers to the acquisition (don't assume all of your customers will view it as a positive thing). Each of these items plus a host of others will determine if this is the correct route or not. It is also worth focusing on why this new business is attractive to you. Does it have attributes your own business does not possess? What is the calibre of the workforce and do they have skills that would benefit the existing business? Are you simply buying it for its customer base and order book? Will there be synergies between both businesses and have you identified any overlaps? Business owners forget about the reverse implications on the core business and you need to think about the impact on your existing staff, especially if they feel their roles might be under threat. Also, how will your senior managers, who will be responsible for the integration, feel about this additional workload, and is the existing structure robust enough to take on such a move? There are answers to all these questions and there is no reason why the acquisition can't proceed if those answers are positive. The important thing is that you take a very strategic view on this opportunity and don't rush in and buy it just because it has presented itself. Many companies I know have clearly defined acquisition strategies in place long before the opportunities arise. This allows them to be well prepared and not be thrown into turmoil when suitable prospects present. Tús maith leath na hoibre! Q: What types of advertising work best? A: Much of that answer depends on the type of business you are in, but let me give you an overview of some of the smart advertising I hear from some of the businesses I meet. The strength of newspaper and radio advertising around the country seems to vary according to the county and region you are in. In some areas, one will work better than the other, but there is no hard and fast rule. Some businesses have indicated to me that combining radio advertising and running a competition during the same period – where one of their main shows seeks entries for the competition – can be a good model. Other businesses tell me that using door-to-door flyers works exceptionally well, particularly when they have a price message to give to consumers. However, this does depend on the location, as I know that in many of the big cities households are saturated with flyers coming in their letter box and neglect to read them in many cases. All of the online tools that are now available (many of which are free) are being used more and more by businesses to promote their story. Several retailers have told me stories of using Facebook to drum up real commercial business by interacting with their customers on a regular basis. Text is also being used very successfully by many businesses to engage with a customer base who are happy to be contacted in this manner. The only caution about text is that if it is overused, customers get fed up quickly. The less-formal approach also seems to work very well where you might invite a group of your key customers to come into the business to give them a briefing on a new product or service you are launching, or perhaps you invite a supplier of yours to take some of your core trade customers to your premises to train and up-skill them on some new product or innovation. That is advertising too! There is always the danger that when the word advertising is mentioned that everybody thinks of formal paid-for advertising but, of course, the best advertising of all is word of mouth. In Superquinn, we never had large budgets for advertising, but yet we managed to get significant awareness of the business through customers having good experiences and telling others about it. It's a little bit like throwing a stone into a pond and ripples moving outwards from that point, in the same way satisfied customers will tell others, who will in turn tell even more, and that's probably the best advertising of all. It would be easy to overlook a valuable tool like this when considering how to promote your business. Email questions to problemsolver@independent.ie Irish Independent 
