business
{  
    March 03 2018 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/massive-boost-for-cork-firms-as-they-count-down-to-brexit-36655933.html }
Project Ireland 2040 is a welcome start for enterprise say Cork business owners, writes Áilín Quinlan The business supports contained in Project Ireland 2040 are a great start, according to north Cork businessman Patrick Buckley - but he warns the devil's in the detail, and crucial resources to underpin these strategies have yet to be hammered out. The new national plan outlines excellent initiatives for Irish companies, says Buckley, managing director of the Mallow-based firm EPS, a top provider of water and wastewater treatment and pumping solutions. He strongly approves of the proposal for the development of new Regional Sectoral Clusters. These will be led by industry and involve both regional small- and medium-sized businesses as well as multinationals collaborating with research centres and third-level institutions, with the aim of scaling and internationalising enterprise in all regions. "This is something we've been pursuing as a group of businesses in manufacturing and engineering sectors in north Cork over the last two years; we're looking at the establishment of an engineering and manufacturing cluster." However, Buckley observes, specific supports for the clusters have yet to be outlined, for example the provision of dedicated 'cluster managers.' "There needs to be a full-time cluster manager for all of these companies, so the government needs to put funding in place." Once the clusters are established, he emphasises, ongoing financial support from the government will be critical to the success of the clusters. The launch by the government of the second phase of the Regional Enterprise Development Fund involving €30m under Project Ireland 2040 is also to be welcomed, Mr Buckley observes - but again, he emphasises the need for more detail in terms of supports "to ensure that real value-added projects are coming forward from entities or individuals to tap into the funding". "It's very much a case of the devil is in the detail," he explains, adding that the proposed Regional Enterprise Development Fund should provide supports enabling community groups to drive local enterprise. "I'd like to see funding channelled to community groups which are pro-active in terms of the rollout of broadband in the community. For example, a community that would be prepared to build enterprise units, workshops or storage space within a village or small town," he says. While the fact that a big national plan like Project Ireland 2040 identifies Cork and Kerry for significant supports is to be welcomed, he says, care must be taken to avoid any bias towards Cork city in terms of supports and infrastructure development. "It's important to ensure balanced development in Cork county so that every town and village in the county is treated equally in proportion to the city," he says. The planned construction of the M20 motorway is also to be warmly welcomed, he adds - but he believes detail is required on how sufficient links from towns along the route to the motorway, in particular Mallow and Charleville, will be put in place. "What I don't see in the plan is any discussion around the road network in terms of linkages, for example, between Mallow and Killarney and Mallow and Tralee, which are very important for the whole Duhallow area in terms of its development," he warns. The broad supports outlined by the plan to help businesses prepare for Brexit are an excellent starting point, he says. The plan refers to a range of targeted programmes supporting exposed enterprises to improve competitiveness and innovation and diversify trade from the UK to new markets. However, he adds, more needs to be done. "There will have to be more industry-specific and company-specific Brexit supports," he declares. "Generally, you'll have a broad support initiative announced by the government for industry, but when you look at the detail you will find that invariably it is not applicable to all businesses. "The challenge for LEADER groups and LEOs is to ensure that all companies outside of Dublin and the big urban centres get full access to all the supports. "There will be an impact," he declares, adding however, that he believes the net impact of Brexit will be a positive one for Ireland. However, Buckley warns there will inevitably be companies which lose out. He welcomes the Project Ireland's plan to open a €300m loan fund to businesses with fewer than 500 employees and which are exposed to the impact of Brexit, but urges the government to clarify the exact conditions surrounding access to such loans. "I welcome the loan fund, but detail is needed around the conditions for those loans. It needs to be made clear, for example, who is providing the funding and whether it is to be banks or state agencies. "For any SME or any business, the meat is in the specific conditions which apply to the loan." Kevin Curran head of enterprise at Cork North and West LEO is excited about Project Ireland's plan for a €500m Disruptive Technologies Fund. "We're looking for new innovative technologies that will revitalise industry," says Curran. "The government is asking for industry to drive innovation and keep Ireland at the forefront, at the absolute cutting-edge of tech and innovation." The fact that the government has specifically identified a fund to promote innovation is, he says, a strong indication that the State prioritises supports for innovative companies which find new ways to stay ahead of the curve. "Businesses should take advantage of this and it is certainly something that should be welcomed," adds Curran. "It's an element of the national plan for the next 20 years and it's pushing businesses to be at the cutting edge of their particular sector." Businesses should avail of the wide range of supports and initiatives to help them withstand any downside from Brexit and take advantage of any upside, believes Curran, who points to a LEO-run programme, Lean for Micro. This programme's key objective is to make companies "leaner and keener" by addressing competitiveness issues within their businesses, building the capability of their people to identify issues and improve their operations and increase capacity as they improve efficiency and effectiveness. "If a company is working effectively, it's more competitive," he stresses. "The second element is capacity, which means working with owner-managers to make them more effective in their role. "This is about building the skillset of owner-manager to help them drive their businesses more effectively," says Curran. "What LEO programmes do is look under the bonnet of the business and help owner-managers make their businesses more effective and more competitive." Just as important is innovation, he says. "We're looking at the possibilities for finding a newer or more innovative way for companies of doing what it is they do - to differentiate themselves from rivals, which makes them more attractive to the marketplace." However, innovation is also about encouraging companies to look at new markets, he emphasises. "Certain sectors of the Irish economy are very dependent on the UK for business," he says. This is particularly relevant to the agri-food business and therefore to north Cork, which boasts companies like Dairygold and the Kerry Group. "There are risks for such businesses in terms of their dependence on the UK market," he says. The LEO-run Food Exporters Programme is helping businesses prepare to export not just to the UK but beyond, as Curran explains: "There will still be opportunities post-Brexit and what we are doing is to reduce the dependence of some of the agri-food industry on the UK market. "Last year we took 12 Cork businesses to a major food expo in London - this had a high proportion of non-UK buyers there - one of the companies ended up getting business from the UK, Canada and Germany as a result of showcasing its products at that trade fair." Basically, he says, the idea is to encourage people "to look outwards". Although nobody yet fully understands the implications of Brexit, there are still preparations to be made. "The whole question is do we end up with hard or soft borders and what other barriers might there be for Irish business who want to do business in the UK, or more importantly, through the UK because of its landbridge connection to Europe?" To enable businesses assess - to an extent at least - their exposure to the potential implications of Brexit, he says, the LEOs are offering a Brexit Scorecard. "This is an online questionnaire which takes about five to 10 minutes to fill out. "It helps you assess what your business's exposure is to various Brexit issues. "What we do afterwards, depends on the score card - some business might have little exposure; for others Brexit might be a big issue." Depending on the needs of a particular business, the LEO will try to target advice or assistances, an important element of which is mentoring. "A lot of Irish businesses' supply chain runs in or through the UK, for example - the importance of the UK in terms of connectivity to Europe cannot be overstated. "We can put in place a mentor who will help a company decide the best way forward in sourcing this product in the future," he says. "Come to us and let us see if we can help you find the right solution. "The whole message is about making people aware of what is going on and how it might affect their business - and it's a very important message," he says. "I'd strongly encourage businesses with concerns to give us a call. If there is an issue, allow us to work with you to resolve it. "The key thing is to ask for advice and help. Nobody is quite sure what Brexit's going to look like and they're not sure what they're planning for." The best option, says Curran, is to try to envisage both the potential best and worst scenarios for your company, and seek advice based around that assessment. "We have strategies and programmes in place to help business. If you can help your business grow in terms of competitiveness, managerial capacity and innovation, you'll end up with a better business." He urges businesses in the region to attend the Enterprise Ireland-organised Brexit Roadshow in Charleville Park in Charleville on April 11. "That is about encouraging people to get information about Brexit and about what it might mean for them and their companies. It's about thinking what Brexit might mean for you."   For more information on Project Ireland 2040 visit the official website  
 
Close
 The Corkman / Corkman 
