business
{ David Looby 
    September 02 2016 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/out-about/rays-eye-opening-year-in-business-35004616.html }
A 22-year-old New Ross man who has continued in his parents and grandparent's footsteps by opening an Italian eaterie in the town has spoken of the unbelievable experience he has had being in business for the first time. Raymondo Forte, opened Raymondo's pizzeria and take away on North Street on the site of his grandfather Elio's The Marini restaurant, in the summer of 2015. He made the decision the previous November having become frustrated with his college course and because he always wanted to be in business. Ray said people say people being in business as a risk, financially and personally, but he doesn't see it that way. The third generation Italian, who was born and reared in New Ross, said: 'Everything is a risk. Waking up in the morning and travelling to work is a risk. We are here on earth for a short time so we may as well try do something spectacular while we're here.' His grandfather opened The Marini in 1973 on North Street and all of the family worked there over the years. Nonno and Elio retired in the 1990s and Ray's aunt Gilda and her husband Vinny took over the business, which became famous for its pizzas.  'The recipe is still the same. People liked it so I wanted to bring it back.'   Describing his first year in business as amazing, Ray said: 'I have not been reaping in the rewards just yet, in fact, I am persevering. You must. It's the only way to accomplish something. My journey in the business world began in November of 2014. It was that period of time I decided to reopen a family business which my grandparents started which was then taken over by my aunt who had decided it was enough after 20 years. The building was vacant, much of the equipment was there but a major renovation job was needed.' Ray's parents told him to think long and hard about opening a business letting him know about the responsibilities involved. Today Ray employs five staff and works long days. 'You're never off as you have to meet suppliers and text or email in orders. I'm in the building from 2.30 p.m. to 11.30 p.m.' He said he has been welcomed into the business community in New Ross, but said New Ross Municipal District is not doing enough for businesses. 'They spent €330,000 on a pen and a park. That kind of money would have done a lot for business owners like me. Look at all of the vacant properties on this street. Very few people walk past as a result. There is no parking in the town. A lot needs to be done.'  He said his first year has been difficult.  'Running a business is a major responsibility and times can get tough and for a young man it is hard being under pressure. My little mind wasn't fully ready for it but we are still open and things are on track and I am lucky my family and friends supported me and gave me advice and a giving out to when needed.   'Business at the start was fun and exciting. I was the new kid on the block. For the first couple of months we had all the buzz. The money came in and everything ran smoothly. This was coming to the end of the summer months, the busier time of the year for the fast food industry. The quiet spell came, a couple of big bills came in, the buzz died down, a couple new places opened. Now, we are just another take away for people to choose from. That's okay and that's normal. It had a bad effect on me. It was my lack of experience in business and life that I didn't take it too well. It got me down a little bit. I made a lot of mistakes and the business suffered because of it. Now, things are back on track and we are getting much more organised than before.'   Ray has learned that every detail in business counts. 'It is just hard to manage everything. You have to build relationships with your customers, staff, suppliers and everyone around one. You learn more and more about people every day. The hardest part is keeping everybody happy. It starts from the staff. They are your team and your business is in their hands. You must make sure they are treated with respect. If the kitchen is upset and a customer walks in and senses a bad atmosphere they might not come back again. 99 per cent of the time you walk into Raymondo's, the staff are in a good mood. It's much better to order from a place where you can have a laugh with the staff. Customer service is extremely important. It has been a very challenging first year in business but I am looking forward to many more!' Ray thanked his family, friends, customers and partner for their support. New Ross Standard 
