business
{ Esther Hayden 
    May 18 2018 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/goreyguardian/news/gorey-firm-scores-hat-trick-at-business-awards-36907076.html }
A newly established Gorey business has scored a hat-trick of prestigious award nominations just months on from its official launch. Ruban has made the regional shortlist for the National Start-Up Awards 2018, backed by Bank of Ireland and Enterprise Ireland. The online marketing initiative is also a finalist for the Wexford Start-Up Business of the Year title in the 2018 County Wexford Business Awards.    The company has been shortlisted by Virgin Media Business in its annual VOOM programme to find and support the UK and Ireland's most talented up-and-coming businesses. The fact that all three awards programmes are so rigorously contested, and independently judged by serious business partners, makes this achievement all the more rewarding, according to Philip Cullen, the Wexford businessman who founded Ruban.   'We set out to put local businesses in front of local customers, so they can compete with online and global retailers, and we are thrilled that the success of our platform has caught the attention of seasoned business experts.' Since launching earlier this year, Ruban has had over 80 businesses in the South East sign-up to the app and online site that connects businesses and service providers with the local community searching for them. Philip said Ruban.ie promotes rural and urban businesses, clubs, Councils, tourist attractions and services, in one accessible online location. 'Our name comes from a combination of Rural and Urban, and our proposition is that you'll find the answer on Ruban.ie - no matter what the question is.' The success of the new business, which has appealed to the various business awards panels, is based on the fact that small businesses often don't have the time, skills or resources to market themselves online.  In this day and age, even if consumers are searching for a product or service that is available down the road, it might be invisible to them, because it is invisible online. 'Our localised platform is helping consumers find what they are looking for, in their own community, and helping small businesses to engage with potential customers and promote their offering', said Philip. The County Wexford Business Awards is in partnership with Wexford County Council and Wexford Chamber, while the National Start-Up Awards 2018 is organised by Enterprise Ireland.   Both adjudication panels singled out Ruban.ie as an innovative and entrepreneurial company, meeting a real need for smaller businesses to have a digital presence to showcase their business and compete effectively. Gorey Guardian 
