business
{  
    August 20 2009 10:15 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/sligo-businesses-amongst-the-quickest-to-settle-bills-27566099.html }
Late payment continues to be an issue for businesses in Ireland according to the latest Payment Performance insight from Experian®, the global information services company. During April to June 2009 Irish businesses settled their bills, on average, 26 days beyond credit terms but Sligo businesses showed to be among the quickest in the country to settle their bills averaging at just 22.38 days. Although this average represents a one day improvement on Q1, it continues to be slower than companies in Northern Ireland, which manage to pay their bills on average 22 days beyond terms. By analysing the payment records of tens of thousands of businesses in Ireland and Northern Ireland, including those owned by overseas companies, Experian is able to identify both if and, crucially, when they are going to pay their debts. The latest Experian payment performance analysis reveals that: Irish businesses paid their bills on average 26.56 days beyond terms in the second quarter of 2009, compared with 26.86 days beyond terms in the first quarter. However in the second quarter of 2008, Irish businesses were paying their bills on average 24.85 days beyond terms - two days earlier than Q2 2009. In comparison, businesses in Northern Ireland paid their bills on average 22.44 days beyond terms in the second quarter of 2009 and 20.41 in the first quarter of 2009. In the second quarter of 2008, Northern Irish businesses were paying their bills on average 22.70 days beyond terms. Cavan businesses are the quickest in the country to pay their bills, averaging just 20.59 days beyond terms since January 2009. At the other end of the scale, businesses in Kildare are still the slowest to settle bills, paying on average 30.71 days beyond terms. Paula Carney, Payment Performance Manager at Experian's Business Information division, explains: "Late payments can have very damaging consequences for businesses, leading to a strain on administrative resources and cash flow. There are a large percentage of businesses in Ireland that have yet to review their credit policies in light of the current climate and are continuing to extend credit terms to customers who do not have the means to pay on time. "This is very unhealthy business practice and can lead to dire consequences if a debt turns bad. We urge businesses to carefully consider their credit policies and procedures to ensure they are only extending credit to those customers that are in a position to pay. "Experian's payment performance data helps organisations to identify whether they should be doing business with a customer in the first place. It also allows them to identify whether a customer is simply a serial late payer, or one whose payment performance is rapidly deteriorating, indicating it may struggle to meet future commitments. "Armed with this information, companies can change their terms of business for individual customers, request at least some payment upfront and even, in extreme cases, sever the business relationship. At the very least, businesses can take steps to ensure their cash flow is strong enough to survive the late payment of a large invoice." Experian has the largest database of up-to-date commercial payment data in Ireland, which is extracted from more than 6,500 ledgers processed every month. 
