business
{ Maeve Sheehan 
    September 03 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/how-pv-doyles-multi-million-legacy-to-his-children-was-to-tear-them-apart-26212161.html }
WHEN Bernie Gallagher walked the corridor to the boardroom of the Burlington Hotel in Dublin on Tuesday morning, she was already resigned to the fate of the hotel chain founded by her legendary father, PV Doyle. She appeared implacable as she took her seat at the boardroom table, sources said, although in recent weeks friends have noticed how thin she has become. Her sister, Eileen Monahan, sat nearby. Anne, the third sibling in the triumvirate that has dominated the Jurys Doyle Hotels group, was represented on the board by her husband, Tom Roche, himself a multi-millionaire from his company, National Toll Roads. Often described as forceful and driven, it is on Bernie that eyes are trained in times of crisis in the family business. And so it must have been at this board meeting. She and her two sisters owned 23 per cent of the ?1bn hotel group, enough to influence whatever unwelcome proposals come to the table. Those expecting emotion were disappointed, however, according to one source close to the company. It seemed that Bernie and her sisters were not only prepared for the worst, but were willing to swallow the bitter pill that was the remedy. The Jurys Doyle group was in profit - last year it made ?45m, mostly on international business and Jurys Inns - but its grand Dublin flagship hotels, most of them founded by PV Doyle, were floundering. Celtic Tiger sophisticates supped in newer, bigger five-stars such as the Four Seasons and the Merrion hotels. The company had last month agreed to sell the Jurys site on 4.8 acres, but that long low block was built by the Jurys' side of the business, not PV Doyle. It wouldn't have been such a wrench. At last Tuesday's meeting, the siblings held the casting vote on what to do with the rest. Their options were to flog the whole thing or sell the most valuable bits of it piecemeal. It had been the family's wish to retain the five-star Berkeley Court. But advisors told them the land was more valuable than the hotel businesses built on it. Put simply - it was more profitable to sell the land to speculators than run a hotel on it. It was, said one source, a "no-brainer". By the time the meeting ended three hours later, the siblings had agreed to sell the Berkeley Court, built by PV Doyle to be the grandest hotel in Dublin, and the Montrose, on which he founded hisempire in 1964. The Doyle children are popularly regarded as fierce custodians of their father's legacy so "there was an expectation that the proposals put on the table would be difficult. But that did not come to pass," said a company source. "There was a unanimous decision to sell the Berkeley Court and Montrose. There is no doubt that the family shareholder representatives would have wanted to keep the Berkeley Court as a hotel, but they are very pragmatic business people. Emotionally, their preference is not to sell. But the old saying goes, if the price is right . . . " Behind the implacable facade, however, observers now believed that the siblings may be planning a comeback. According to informed speculation this weekend, they are preparing to launch a last-ditch attempt to rescue the family business. The hunt for a white knight to help them wrest back control of the group is expected to begin later this week. Since his death in 1988, PV Doyle's children have fought bitter boardroom battles in his name to protect his legacy. Eight years ago, their brother, David Doyle, was effectively 'She is highly intelligent and very sharp. She could have driven the business and taken it on to another level, but she didn't get the chance or wasn't interested' run out of the company for trying to upgrade his father's hotel businesses that are now worth less than the land on which they are built. "The story in all of this is what was done to PV Doyle's business in the past 10 years," said one source close to the family. The next chapter may be about to begin. PV Doyle was a building contractor with a vision. He wanted to set up quality hotels at affordable prices. He started with the Montrose in 1964 and it was such a success that he opened the Skylon, the Green Isle and the Tara. Tall, dapper and moustachioed, Mr Doyle was one of the thrusting, mohair-suited young bucks on the make in 1960s Ireland. Like many of his business contemporaries, he sometimes felt obliged to grease the wheels of officialdom. George Redmond, the corrupt former planning official with Dublin City Council, later told gardai how a former colleague introduced him to PV Doyle in the Montrose Hotel in Donnybrook. After passing a pleasant evening together, Redmond claimed Mr Doyle gave him "a few hundred pounds", as it was Christmas. Redmond claimed that the cash was unsolicited. Then there was Mr Doyle's long-term advisor, Des Traynor, the late accountant who also solicited donations from wealthy benefactors to fund Charles Haughey's lavish lifestyle throughout the 1980s. Doyle gave Haughey £300,000, presumably at Mr Traynor's request. But there was a kick-back for the Taoiseach's generous bank-rollers. Mr Traynor also ran a private, off-shore bank in the Caymans, called the Ansbacher deposits, into which an elite golden circle of wealthy friends were invited to salt away their millions from the tax inspectors. Mr Doyle, and later his son, David, were amongst his private clients. Mr Traynor used the hallowed foyers and dining rooms of the Doyle hotels to conduct his business. Many of Mr Doyle's clientele were, like him, Ansbacher account holders. Mr Traynor was in the habit of lunching at the Burlington or the Berkeley Court where he picked up cash or draft deposits for this private bank from wealthy dining companions. In an illuminating testimony to the Moriarty Tribunal, PV's son, David, later recalled how Mr Traynor generally arrived early and waited in the foyer for his lunch companion. Sometimes, David used the opportunity to give Mr Traynor some money to be deposited in his own Ansbacher account. He recalled on one occasion in 1987 giving Mr Traynor five bank drafts worth £27,000 and £2,000 in cash, as he waited in the lobby. His clients regarded it as a personal service. Fianna Fail used a room in the Berkeley Court for party benefactors who wanted to make discreet donations to the party. That was the kind of hotel it was. When PV Doyle died, his empire passed to his widow, Margaret, his three daughters, Bernie, Eileen and Ann, and sons, David and Michael. David Doyle was the anointed successor to run the company, even though his sister Bernie was regarded by some as more financially astute. It was David, according to a former colleague, who had the instinct for hotels, though. He was, he said, as able and visionary as his father. David's aim was to keep up the quality in existing hotels and to expand abroad. That meant spending money. He set about refurbishing the Berkeley Court and bought hotels in America. But that was when the relationship turned sour. One hotel source said: "It was the Berkeley Court where the Doyle family really differed. David Doyle was conscious of upgrading the quality of the hotels. He wanted to keep the ethos of the family business going. The family could not agree to this. They were looking for a return." Michael, an ally of sorts for David, walked away early on, selling his stake to his family for £25m and turning to building projects. The remaining siblings on the board fell out spectacularly. David first quit in 1994 but returned two years later. He fell out with his mother, Margaret, after she left her shares to her daughters to boost their control of the business. He returned in 1996 but a year later, he was finally ousted as chief executive for good. Even though David remained on the board, he reportedly refused to communicate with his sisters. He was, in turn, served with restrictive covenants which, according to reports, were in his view designed to thwart his plans to set up his own hotel chain. The battles were horrendous: ugly rumours about the warring factions circulated in Dublin's high society. David Doyle eventually sold his share of the business for £40m and moved to Spain. The nasty spat left a sour taste that still lingers. Some of David's supporters pointed out last week that his plans to upgrade, reinvest and buy abroad could have ensured that Doyle hotels stayed ahead of, or at least, level with the rivals. "The guy was really going to make a success of it. He had a visionary element," said one source. "With all due respects, PV Doyle never had accountants telling him what to do." Bernie, as acting managing director, steered the company into the arms of Jurys, then the largest publicly quoted hotel chain in Ireland, in 1999. Jurys spent ?314m on the Doyle chain. The family got seats on the new board and a 23 per cent stake in the new company. Not everyone was impressed. John Glynn, who ran the Doyle group at the time, left and went into business with James Mansfield, the owner of Citywest, taking with him key events, such as the Fianna Fail annual dinner, that were once the cornerstone of the Burlington's business. The Doyle family took a back seat on the hotel business. One source close to the family remarked of Bernie: "She is highly intelligent and very sharp. She could have driven the business and taken it onto another level, but she didn't get the chance or wasn't interested." The low-frills Inn model pushed by Jurys generated healthy profits, particularly in the UK. Its Dublin hotels, outmoded and in some cases, in obsolete buildings, floundered. Last May, Richard Hooper, Jurys Doyle chairman, described the performance of the Dublin hotels as "very disappointing". The unravelling of Jurys had begun. Investors circled the company: but their prey was not the Berkeley Court, Jurys, Burlington and Westbury, but the prime land on which they were built. James Mansfield and John Glynn also eyed the group but held fast. They "became aware" that the group planned to sell off its best assets - the Dublin 4 land - rather than relinquish the company to hostile predators. This was the view of the Doyle siblings and Tom Roche. Precinct Investments - a consortium led by a group of once obscure speculators whose claim to fame was buying out the Gresham for ?107m last year - was first in with an offer. The group put the flagship Jurys hotel in Ballsbridge up for sale at ?200m. The bidders were a who's who of the Irish building trade: Manor Park Homes, Treasury Holdings, Sean Dunne. On July 28, the 4.8 acres went for ?260m - more than ?50m an acre - to Sean Dunne, one of the wealthiest builders in the country. His grandiose plans include a block of high-rise apartments. If there was a moment of epiphany for the Doyle siblings, this was it. "There were 13 bidders, all bar two exceeded the guide price," said one source. "They were, most of them, hard-nosed, self-made builders - cut from the school of life who have taken huge risks and made millions." If the bidders were willing to pay over the odds, the Doyles were willing vendors. And so the dismantling of Jurys Doyle continues. The question that remains is who will buy what bits and whether the Doyles will re-enter the fray in a bid to keep their father's legacy alive. By close of business on Friday, Sean Dunne was thought to have bought himself a 20 per cent stake in the company at a cost of more than ?240m - in addition to his ?260m investment in the Jurys land. Friends say he wants leverage and may make an offer for the group. If he did, one business associate speculated, it could only be with the support of the Doyle siblings. They could get the chance to retrieve some of the Doyle hotels: he would get the prime development land he wants and a stake in an international hotel chain. But he is fighting a rearguard action against Liam Carroll, the biggest builder in the state, and the most publicity-shy. Mr Carroll has deep pockets and a track record: he wrested control of Dunloe Ewart, a property company, from a rival, Noel Smyth, last year. He too has been buying up shares in Jurys Doyle, on Friday his stake was thought to be close to 10 per cent. Then there are the Reuben brothers. The billionaire London-based Iranian brothers, who were providing the financial clout for Precinct's ?1.1bn bid. Anglo Irish bank pulled out - the bank wasn't happy with the terms and the consortium's offer of ?17.50 a share fell apart, with builders such as Dunne and Carroll prepared to pay over ?18 a share. On Friday, the Reubens declared themselves still interested in the group. The Doyle family, true to their roots, will do business with whoever offers them the best deal. None of this is bad news for Jury's Doyle shareholders: their investment is now worth over 40 per cent more than it was in May. It was at Margaret Doyle's insistence that portraits of her husband remain in his hotels as part of the deal with Jurys. Such loyal nods to his memory may yet be entertained by the new owners of the once legendary Doyle hotel chain. 
