business
{ Professor Ray Kinsella 
    July 11 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/analysis-stopping-the-rot-at-the-heart-of-corporate-business-world-26040967.html }
THE MELTDOWN in the balance sheet of some of  the largest US corporations - which has triggered a major crisis of confidence - reflects nothing less than an implosion in the prevailing global corporate business model. An  overstatement? I don't think so. Already, the contagion is spreading to other major markets. The rise over the last year or so in the price of gold as the ultimate asset of last resort. The compelling indications that - in the view of one authoritative market analyst - the worst and most savage phase of the present bear market is yet to be seen. Systemic Problem: These seemingly diverse developments may well be telling us something. And it's certainly not clear, in the event of a genuine systemic meltdown, that the regulatory authorities have either the resources or the clout to restore confidence to the markets. We have - almost - forgotten that the potentially catastrophic aftershock of the near-collapse of Long-Term Capital Management (LTCM) in the late 1990s was stemmed only by the fortuitous - and unmandated - intervention of the New York Federal Reserve. We were fortunate on that occasion - but looking coldly and objectively at the present global corporate landscape, it may well be that LTCM was merely a harbinger of what is now in process. The post-Enron crisis - which merely brought to the surface the flaws that were already built in to the global corporatist business model - has ignited a systemic problem which has the capacity to overwhelm good (and there are many such) global companies, as well as the Enrons and Worldcoms. Band Aid: Proposals for regulatory reform including a tightening-up of accounting and auditing standards are being brought forward. In the United States, President Bush's criticisms of Corporate America have elicited tough new proposals to strengthen corporate governance - which is jargon for setting out more explicitly the principles by which companies are managed. These proposals - which are intended to restore the reputation of the US corporate business model - are important. But they address the symptoms - not the real cause - of the debacles we have seen over the last six months. We are in effect applying band-aid, where a much more fundamental change process is needed. For some 25 years, within the emerging globalised economy, the focus of corporate management has been on maximising shareholder value. In practise, what this has meant is an all-consuming obsession with quarterly earnings figures. This deserves to be looked at in detail. A continual rise in quarterly earnings is much to be sought after. The problem really arises where management feel compelled to manufacture or 'create' earnings figures in order to maintain or increase the "market value" of the company on the Stock Exchange, without any real regard to these same fundamentals and to developments in the business environment. A chasm opens up between the picture being sold to the market - and what is really happening in the business. Fruits of Obsession: What's behind this? A number of things. Management, with stock options, may - in some companies - have an incentive to project a - shall we say optimistic - picture of how the company is doing. Or, a prospective acquisition of the company may be contingent on projecting very strong quarterly earnings, irrespective of what's happening in the bowels of the company, and within its marketplace. Or, quite simply, management may succumb to the enormous pressure to be seen to be delivering 'shareholder value', in the form of a continually rising market value based on these quarterly or half-yearly earnings. Sometimes - as was the case in the very strong 'bull market' of the 1990s - markets and management allowed themselves to be sucked into what is, in effect, a big lie. The point is that all great business leaders know that what's important is sustainable growth. And that can't be accommodated within - and it certainly shouldn't be sacrificed to - an arbitrary obsession with quarterly earnings. But what we are looking at here is a culture which, by its nature, incentivises short-term-ism. It has generated a business model that is quite simply flawed. Collateral Damage: The problem therefore is intrinsic to the business model itself. But it also generates serious collateral damage because the culture which drives it trickles down and pressurises and ultimately messes up individuals within the company. This is precisely what happened in Enron. And in Andersen. And in WorldCom. That is why the projection of the recent series of debacles is not - as some analysts have argued - simply another scandal - another 'bubble' in a long and undistinguished series of crises and scandals within the market economy which this same market economy ruthlessly purges and then continues on its way. Not so. The recent excesses in financial services right across the board highlight what is a flawed business model. That's the real problem. And if you really want to understand Enron, or WorldCom, or Tyco or any of the others, this has to be the starting point. What we are talking about is the diversion of management into attempting to deliver increases in quarterly earnings at any cost. This is not sustainable. Yet many of the largest Corporates as well as Institutional Investors - where management performance is in itself umbilically connected to the 'performance' of the markets - are under enormous pressure to deliver ever rising returns - and some investment analysts, have all been willing to play this short-term game. Obsession with Short-term-ism: This obsession with short-term-ism has had two effects. Firstly, it has prevented managers focusing on the sustainability of their business: i.e. building and investing for the medium-term. Secondly, while in reality people should be the central resource, especially in a knowledge-driven economy, in practise the set of incentives built into corporate management has consigned them to the status of disposable assets, to be sacrificed to the false God of short-term shareholder value and wealth generation. Let's put this in context. The economy - whether national or international - is continually in a process of transformation. In the case of Ireland, this transformation began in the 1960s, with the opening up of the Irish economy to foreign investment. What we had here was a new national business model, but one which was underpinned and shaped by a national ethos. This ethos was shaped around the desire to be a more open and inclusive society, to create wealth - but - and it's a big but - more important to direct that wealth into a human and physical infrastructure on which higher living standards for all could be achieved. This is the "black hole" at the heart of the present global corporate structure. A values-driven system - underpinned by a strong ethical perspective - has been 'squeezed out.' Think of the present global economic system, for which WorldCom is, in many ways, a metaphor. National economies have become internationalised. Multinational companies now bestride what has become a globalised economy. The transmission of economic disturbances in one part of the globe impact more or less instantaneously on all countries: in the short-term through the financial markets, but in a pretty short space of time upon real people, via downsizing. 
Impact on Ireland: How serious is all this? Is it really that important? Well, yes it is. At the most basic level, a collapse of corporate confidence - or a diversion of investment into non-productive forms (property, gold) - is bad, especially for Ireland which has prospered on the basis of international investment. Equally, it is of enormous importance that our own fledgling multinational companies are predicated on a robust business model that is clearly differentiated from that which brought about the demise of Enron and others. There has been much discussion of new accounting and auditing standards. But the process of developing this new business model has not yet begun to be addressed. There are, of course, many fine global companies which operate according to the highest standards of integrity. The problem is that the unravelling of the present flawed global corporatist model, which is now in progress, will not necessarily differentiate between the Good and the Bad: a forced selling by large institutional investors across the market would impact on the value of well-managed companies, as well as those which are less robust. Conflagration spreads: But it goes deeper than that. Think of the collapse of the apparently monolithic structure of communism in the mid-to-late 1980s. It was corroded from within by a command economy, which crowded out both individual freedom and transcendent values - in other words, God. Something like the same process is, I believe, happening to global corporatism. Successive business models over the last 50 years, as they have developed, have not been supported by any kind of ethical perspective. With Enron, the first flames began to flicker. Now we are faced with the prospect of a conflagration as the markets lose confidence in the 'game', which they themselves have conspired to develop: the game based around the manipulation of quarterly earnings figures and the creation of a whole set of perverse incentives that have 'crowded out' other stakeholders, and have prevented companies focussing on medium to long-term sustainability. That's why the whole set of proposals that are now being brought forward on corporate regulation, on structures of governance - the provision and pricing of stock options - while important, don't really go to the heart of the matter. Of course, we need, not more - but better - regulation. And it's worth touching on this for a moment before nailing down what really needs to be done. We need new ways of managing companies so that they are more responsive to the kind of responsibilities - to employees, to developing countries and to the environment - which are part and parcel of the globalised economy in which we live. Fragmentation: We need a new European and, indeed, global regulatory infrastructure - quite simply because regulation is an integral part of the efficient operation of the market economy. The last bit won't be easy. There is, for example, a diversity in accounting and auditing standards across major markets. In Europe, there is a highly fragmented regulatory system for the supervision of the corporate (including financial services) sector, which needs to be both sorted out and aligned with that of the other major global players. Flawed Regulatory System: In Ireland, despite the best efforts of very bright people, the regulatory system is a mess and ill-adapted to deal with the kind of problems highlighted by Enron and WorldCom, that have come to light over the last six months. We are, of course, a very small subset of a very large global system so there is a limit to what we can do. Even so, in the process of working with others towards a new business model that puts a greater emphasis on strengthening corporate governance and ethics, we can at least avoid making mistakes of our own. To take but two examples, the excellent Consultation Document "Towards Better Regulation" issued by the Department of An Taoiseach, hadn't yet been completed before legislation on the new 'Single Regulator' - far and away the most important piece of regulation of its kind over the last 25 years - was actually brought before the Dail. Equally important, this same legislation is by definition semi-detached from the kind of seismic events we have seen in terms of regulatory failure in the US over the last six months. The legislation now being processed to create a single regulatory structure encompassing both consumer protection and prudential/solvency regulation is seriously flawed and may yet come back to haunt us. Equally, there has, for example, been no discussion of the possible role of the Department of Justice in financial regulation - as there is in the United States. This simply doesn't make sense. Towards a new Business Model: Most important of all, despite co-operation in different EU regulatory forums there is a lack of sync between, on the one hand, our redundant regulatory model with, on the other hand, the beginnings of a whole new approach to European financial services and corporate regulation. The rush to legislate a flawed financial service regulatory system - which by definition has not taken on board the catharsis in global corporate and financial services regulation - will, quite simply, undermine regulatory efficiency, national competitiveness, and, also, consumer welfare. There has been no debate on what a new sustainable, more robust and ethical business model might look like. Thich is strange - since Social Partnership has played an enormous role in Ireland's political and social governance for 15 years as well as in its extraordinary economic performance. No Quick-Fix: There is no quick fix to the meltdown in shareholder value-driven global corporatism which is now well underway. At the heart of this meltdown is the absence of any ethical system which takes account, not just of the different stakeholders, but of the sustainability of global businesses of the new responsibilities which - whether they like it or not - are part and parcel of the 21st century economy. Professor Ray Kinsella is Director of the Centre for Insurance Studies at UCD Smurfit Business School and is visiting Professor at the Institute of European Finance. 
