business
{  
    October 01 2015 10:39 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sponsored-features/government-information-campaign-celebrates-nearly-16-months-of-supporting-smes-31532519.html }
Government information campaign celebrates nearly 16 months of supporting SMEs Over 67,000 businesses and entrepreneurs have now availed of the Government’s Supporting SME Campaign, just as the campaign celebrates being up and running for nearly 16 months. 
Close
 / This campaign is a cross-governmental initiative developed to help small businesses and entrepreneurs learn the full range of potential Government supports available to them. At the heart of this campaign is the Supporting SMEs Online Tool, which brings together over 80 Government business supports from over 30 Departments and Agencies to one simple-to-use website. Over 67,000 businesses have used the tool since its launch in May 2014. The average time spent on the site is around 3 minutes and the average return rate to the site is 40%.  The campaign in fact comprises of three essential components: the Online Tool itself, marketing of the campaign and outreach to small businesses via events across the country. Developments to the Online Tool Users answer 8 simple questions and receive a downloadable list of potential supports with specific contact details for further follow-up, filtered for their business and sector. The Supporting SMEs Online Tool can in fact be embedded into any website, increasing ease of access and use of the Tool. In the last year, 13 new Government supports were added to the Supporting SMEs Online Tool, including the Strategy Banking Corporation of Ireland, the new Tender Advisory Service for SMEs launched by the Office of Government Procurement and a range of new green initiatives run by Enterprise Ireland and the EPA. In the coming weeks, more supports are set to be added to the Online Tool as the campaign team is working with the LGMA and Local Authorities to finalise the details of county-specific supports to be included. Marketing the Campaign: 157,000 leaflets to be distributed this week With a very limited budget, the campaign has been able to build a good profile amongst small and medium enterprises (SMEs) with 1 in 4 businesses aware of the campaign in 2014 and the Online Tool, according to the last Red C Credit Demand Survey November 2014. To mark the one year anniversary and to ensure more Irish businesses know about the Supporting SMEs Online Tool, the Government issued over 150,000 campaign leaflets to over 800 public locations across the country. These locations include Citizen Information Centres, all public libraries, and Education and Training Boards as well as Community Enterprise Centres, LEADER initiatives and Intreo offices. In total, 157,000 leaflets to 827 locations were distributed. The campaign is set to focus on start-ups for the rest of its marketing work for 2015, working with the Start-Up Gathering team and the Commissioner for Start-ups in Dublin to see how best to reach this key audience. Events: Over 40 completed across the country, more planned this year In relation to events, the Campaign team has spoken to entrepreneurs and small businesses at around 40 events during the year at locations across the country – notably in Waterford, Limerick, Cork, Galway, Laois, Kildare, Westmeath, Wexford, Tipperary and Dublin.   The calendar for 2015 will include a return visit to the National Ploughing Championships as well as a number of Local Enterprise Office county events. Speaking about the success of this campaign, Minister for Finance, Michael Noonan TD said: “Reaching over 67,000 sessions on the site since it went live is a great achievement for this campaign. This Online Tool was a central element to increase information available to SMEs and it is great to see the impact it’s had over the course of the year. Tackling unemployment and creating jobs has been a key focus of this Government. Over 95% of companies in Ireland are SMEs and offering them information and support is very important for their continued development.  As we know, small business owners are busy people and we want to help them to make navigating Government supports that bit easier. Putting as many supports as possible into one website has clearly shown to have a positive effect – and I know the campaign has more planned in 2015 to grow the Online Tool even more in the coming year.” Minister for Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation Richard Bruton TD added:  “Start-ups and SMEs are at the heart of our jobs plan, and since taking office we have put in place a range of new supports to help these businesses establish, grow and create jobs. The problem we encounter again and again is that business-people simply aren’t aware of the supports that are available. That is why we have put in place new communications tools to increase awareness of these supports, including advertising campaigns, new websites – and in particular, the SME online tool. The aim in the next year will be to make even more businesses aware of it so that more SMEs can use our supports, grow and create the jobs we need”. Minister of State for Business and Employment Ged Nash TD commented:  “It’s essential that we make it as easy as possible for those with a business idea or already running a small business to know the range of Government supports that are out there. It can be confusing, of course it can. I know from personal experience the direct positive effect this Campaign, and in particular the Online Tool, is having on small businesses who are looking for that support – be it mentoring, help with a business plan, getting finance or finding incubation space. The thing I hear most often from businesses about our Government supports is, “I didn’t know that was available.” With this campaign and its plans for the next year, we are aiming for more and more small businesses to not only be aware of the Government supports, but increasingly avail of them.” #supportingsmes Online Editors 
