business
{ Katherine Donnelly 
    September 22 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/learning/call-for-business-teaching-shake-up-as-interest-drops-25898947.html }
MAJOR changes in the teaching of business in second-level schools are called for in a report that reveals a worrying decline in interest in business-related subjects among students. There was a dramatic drop of almost 20pc in the number of Leaving Certificate students taking one or more business subjects in the decade to 2002, five times the rate of the overall 4pc decline in candidates. MAJOR changes in the teaching of business in second-level schools are called for in a report that reveals a worrying decline in interest in business-related subjects among students. There was a dramatic drop of almost 20pc in the number of Leaving Certificate students taking one or more business subjects in the decade to 2002, five times the rate of the overall 4pc decline in candidates. The report, prepared for the Government's education advisers, the National Council for Curriculum and Assessment (NCCA), says the predicted drop of 20pc in the post-primary school-going population in the decade to 2006 gives more cause for concern about the future of business subjects. It criticises some of the content on the Junior Cert business studies syllabus for being neither relevant nor essential and for failing to offer an adequate foundation for the three Leaving Cert business subjects. A sharp drop in interest in accounting is blamed for the downward spiral between 1992 and 2002 in the uptake of busines subjects among Leaving Cert students. Numbers taking economics have remained fairly constant, while numbers presenting for business have increased slightly. In 1992, a total of 14,497 students took Leaving Cert accounting, but this had more than halved to 6,699 (12pc) in 2003, with a more pronounced fall-off at ordinary level. Issues of immediate concern include: * Treatment of business subjects, at Junior and Leaving Cert levels, as a complementary suite. * A rolling review of the four business syllabuses. * Close liaison between the NCCA and the State Examinations Commission on issues arising in relation to busines subjects. * A complete revision of the Junior Cert business studies syllabus, on a more extensive basis than currently being addressed. * The incorporation of relevant Information and Communications Technology into business education, and the use of ICT as a teaching tool. * An investigation into the decline in numbers taking Leaving Cert accounting. * In-service training for teachers of accounting and business studies. In the longer-term, the report calls for: * Business studies to be included in the core Junior Cert curriculum, to provide life skills such as budgeting, as well as an understanding of business. * Consideration to be given to a revamp of business education in general, in order to provide a core content from the three business disciplines. 
