business
{  
    November 14 2010 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/bankruptcy-laws-need-to-change-26699330.html }
IT'S time to change the bankruptcy laws. We are fast becoming a nation of permanent debtors. From business loans to mortgages, will we ever be able to crawl out from under the boulder of personal and business debt that has fallen on us? I know we have to take responsibility for debts incurred, but given the massive downturn in the economy and the bailout of the banks that we are all contributing to, it's time our antiquated bankruptcy laws were amended. At present, there is no way out of the financial mire a frightening number find themselves in, from small and medium-size business to the guys unable to pay mortgage repayments due to unemployment or reduced earnings. From a business perspective, realistically no bank will lend money to a business without a personal guarantee. I know this from experience. The banks can say what they like, but ask any small-business owner and they will tell you that the only way they could borrow money to grow their business or keep it operating while waiting for creditors to pay up was to give a personal guarantee. With a personal guarantee the debt stays with you, and if your debts outweigh your assets you may very well have the burden of debt for the rest of your life. Not a great incentive to create jobs. As my mother used to say, there is no need to re-invent the wheel. A simple look across the Atlantic at the means of dealing with insurmountable personal and business debt offers an array of solutions, sections of which, with some modification, must surely be compatible with our legal system. Bankruptcy law in the US allows for some light at the end of the tunnel for those who find themselves in difficulty. They have three types of bankruptcies: Chapter 7, Chapter 11 and Chapter 13. Chapter 11 is specifically for businesses. It allows the company reorganise debts and stay in business using business income to pay off creditors. Management continues to run the day-to-day operations, but all major business decisions must be approved by a bankruptcy court. Chapter 7 is applicable to individuals and businesses. For businesses, Chapter 7 means the company stops all operations and ceases trading. A trustee is appointed by the bankruptcy court to sell the company's assets, the proceeds of which are used to pay off the debt, which may include debts to creditors and investors. For the individual, Chapter 7 means debts can be wiped out in exchange for surrendering non-exempt property and selling it to repay creditors. Chapter 13 allows people to keep all of their property and repay a portion, or all, of their debts, under supervision, over a three-to-five-year period. While a direct translation of the law may not be applicable to the situation here in Ireland, it at least gives a starting point from which to consider change. We live in different times, and different times needs different thinking. It is not feasible to maintain our draconian bankruptcy laws where a person can only be discharged as a bankrupt when their debts are paid in full and the costs of the bankruptcy are covered, or after 12 years have passed and all of their property has been disposed of. Given that in the present climate the chances of someone being able to repay their debts in full is negligible, and given that they are precluded from becoming a director of a business while bankrupt, the 12-year 'sentence' is in fact a life sentence. Donald Trump, Henry J Heinz of the Heinz food company and Henry Ford of Ford Motors all had experience of seeing their businesses become bankrupt at one point but bounced back to create even more jobs in the economy. Can we really afford to continue to penalise our entrepreneurs and render them immobilised for 12 years? Unfortunately, the public face of bankruptcy in Ireland is Sean FitzPatrick and David Drumm, but the reality is that ordinary everyday guys are running into real financial difficulty trying to keep small businesses afloat. Of course, financial devastation is not just the prerogative of the business community. Ordinary mortgage-holders are increasingly finding themselves swallowed in the financial mire because of dropping house prices coupled with a reduction in earnings or unemployment. Not alone are they unable to service their mortgage but the sale of their house will not yield sufficient funds to discharge the mortgage. The upshot is they may well find themselves homeless and still indebted to the mortgage company. Again, a look to the US might provide some guidelines. They have what they call a non-recourse loan system. A mortgage company can repossess a house, sell it and use the money to pay off the loan. However, if the money received from the sale is less than the outstanding mortgage the mortgage company cannot come after the borrower for the balance. In some instances, the borrower can just hand back the property and that's the end of the debt. While I don't advocate that a person can walk away from their debt scot-free, perhaps a fixed time period of repayment towards the balance outstanding, following the sale of the house, based on a percentage of income could be agreed. Even if that fixed time period was 10 years, at least a person could at some stage be debt free to start again. At present the debt stays with them forever. From a business perspective, our current bankruptcy laws effectively say to the bankrupt entrepreneur: "You're a failure. You're a failure verging on being a crook. We're defining you as a failure forever -- or at least for 12 years." That's like saying to a smoker who's failed in an attempt to quit: "You're a useless, weak addict and you'll always be a smoker." Except that we know every attempt to quit smoking improves the chances of eventually giving up the cigarettes. And we know from commercial history that bankrupts can be more successful the second time around. If we want that success, second time around, action is needed and needed now. Sunday Independent 
