business
{  
    June 24 2010 11:21 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/business-finalists-learn-fate-at-july-lunch-27854555.html }
THE 21 FINALISTS in the 2010 Wicklow County Enterprise Awards haven't got long to wait to find out who will take the top prize of Business of the Year. Sheelagh Daly, CEO of Wicklow County Enterprise Board, said more than 130 entries were submitted for the competition, which was open to all small businesses in County Wicklow with less than 10 employees. There are three finalists in each of the seven categories. The Women in Business Award is open to all businesses where the owner or manager is a woman. The finalists are Irish Driver's Education Association Limited --Monica Shaefer, Laztech – Carmel Mulligan Burke, Practice PR and Events – Jillian Godsil. The Green Business Award is open to all businesses that incorporate green awareness in their business. The sponsors are Greenstar. The finalists are Dipetane International Limited – Drew McDowell, Irish Passive House Academy – Thomas O'Leary, Unicorn Design – Sophie Rieu. The Manufacturing Industries Award is open to all businesses in the manufacturing sector. The finalists consist of Astron Engineering Limited – Thomas O'Dowd, Hisun Technologies – Derek McDonnell, Pat Lee Electrical Pumps & Engineering Limited – Pat Lee. The Services Industries Award is sponsored by Eolas Recruitment and is open to all businesses in the services sector. Competing for the prize will be Footfalls Walking Holidays – Christopher Stacey, Movie Extras – Derek Quinn, RTD Technology Limited – Tony Harbison. An Exporter Award open to all businesses exporting consists of Atlantic Aromatics – David Kelly, Irish Quilting Magazine – Sherry Nugent, MXI Computing Limited – Graham Mulhern. Wicklow County Enterprise Board sponsor the 'SYOB Programme Business Award' open to all businesses that participated in the Wicklow County Enterprise Board Start Your Own Business over the past five years. The finalists are Hats by Jean – Jean Condron, Kustomkidz – Julie New, Profits.ie – Tadhg Henderson. The Wicklow Enterprise Board also sponsor the Wicklow CEB Client Company Award open to all businesses who have received grant aid from the enterprise board. The three companies in the running are MXI Computing Limited – Graham Mulhern, Oishii Foods – Ciara Troy, RTD Technology Limited – Tony Harbison. The Wicklow People-sponsored Business of the Year will be announced on July 5 at the awards lunch. Each category winner receives a specially commissioned award; a ready to go laptop; a business package including advertising, business mentoring and IT training and a profile of your business during the month of July in the Wicklow People. 
