business
{  
    May 19 2010 02:24 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/enterprising-idea-to-provide-advice-26943821.html }
BANK of Ireland has launched its second National Enterprise Week which will feature over 60 tailored advice seminars along with showcasing opportunities in branches for business owners, taking place across its retail branch network from May 24th to 28th, with a number of these in the Louth branches. The week long initiative, which is open to both customers and non-customers, is being held as part of the bank's ongoing commitment to actively support business recovery in the SME sector by providing them with the necessary financial support and practical advice during the current challenging trading environment. This two-stranded approach aims to provide advice events for businesses with an opportunity to meet with leading industry experts, and learn from their experiences, while the 'Show your Business' element will give businesses a platform on which to promote their product/service in our branches to a new marketplace and to network with other businesses who face similar challenges. The initiative has been recognised as part of European SME Week 2010, which takes place across Europe between May 25th and June 1st. The advice events will take the format of breakfast briefings, enterprise evenings, presentations and seminars, on themes such as 'Starting/maintaining – Getting the most out of your business', 'Succeeding in a challenging environment', 'Combating the recession' and 'Diversifying your business in challenging times'. A variety of speakers will discuss topics such as credit management, overhead control, going green, employment law and company tax. Speakers will include local business service providers (accountants and solicitors), successful local entrepreneurs, industry experienced panelists who operate the bank's independent mentoring service, Enterprise Builder, alongside senior management from various parts of the business. As part of National Enterprise Week, there will be a number of different events taking place in Louth. There will be an enterprise evening in the Dundalk Branch on Clanbrassil Street tomorrow ( Thursday) at 5.30pm under the title 'Building better businesses in 2010'. Opening the event will be Bank of Ireland's Denis Bergin, and the guest speaker will be Sean Gallagher from Smarthomes and one of the dragons from Dragons' Den who will discuss his own business experience. The next enterprise evening will be on Tuesday at 5.15pm in the Drogheda Branch. This business advice evening will again feature Denis Bergin, and guest speaker will be Graham O'Rourke of MOR Solutions. A selection of businesses exhibiting in branches across Louth including the following: Drogheda: Aoife Collins, wedding cakes; Big Green Energy Company; Derry Camma Farm; Highlanes Gallery, Craft and Coffee Shop; Calipo Theatre. Dundalk: Haggardstown Garden Centre; Aine Corcoran and antique clothing; Meehans Ltd., Toyota dealers; SW Interiors; Standard Brands Irl Ltd; Rice & Roddy, Opel dealers; Ravensdale Equestrian Centre; The Energy Centre. Ardee: Emma's Touch beauty salon; Sarah Ni Loughlin, Indian sauces; David Courtney, security/CCTV systems. The showcasing opportunity allows SMEs to display/sell their products in their local branches. It will offer businesses a platform in which to display their diversity, innovation and entrepreneurship, whilst also benefiting them financially. Feedback from previous events showed that participants reached a new marketplace and developed sales opportunities. It gave them greater exposure to the local business community, allowed them gain valuable knowledge and provided them with a networking opportunity with other business experts and business owners. It also provided many of them with free publicity. For the most up to date information on events taking place during National Enterprise Week log onto www.bankofireland.ie/business ( click on business events) or contact your local branch. 
