business
{ MARIA HERLIHY 
    March 18 2010 09:17 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/town-bucks-trend-with-business-boom-27075892.html }
AS the economic slump forces small businesses to the wall and the only rise is in the unemployment queues, one Duhallow town is bucking the national trend as a staggering 14 new businesses have opened their doors since 2009. Despite in excess of 1,800 Duhallow people signing on the live register in Newmarket, in Kanturk there is now a boom in new businesses with everything from a holistic centre, a tanning salon, a discount shop, a children's clothes shop and a hair salon, among others, opening their doors in the latter part of 2009. IN 2010, another five business people have taken the plunge and opened up new shops, with a lingerie shop, two fast food outlets and a tyre centre open having opened in the last three months. And a shoe shop and a sweet shop are set to open before the end of this month. "The new businesses opening up in Kanturk is certainly saying something about how the town operates," said Kieran Fitzgerald, president of Kanturk Chamber of Commerce. "Kanturk is in a good location and I feel that now people are beginning to look at what their own town offers them." At Christmas the chamber promoted the slogan 'Try Town First' and, Mr Fitzgerald said, "just maybe that slogan is hitting home". "I certainly cannot explain all the businesses opening up, but the way I look at it is if you do not cast a net then you will not catch anything. I think it is fantastic to see doors being opened, because it's certainly better than seeing doors being closed," he added. DESPITE in excess of 1,800 people signing on the live register in Duhallow, as the recession bites, Kanturk seems very much to be bucking the national trend as 14 new businesses have opened their doors since the very dark days of 2009. With everything from a holistic centre to a beauty salon to a children's clothes shop who declared themselves open for business in 2009, and with just three months having bitten the dust in 2010, another seven businesses, which range from a tyre centre to a lingerie shop have flung their doors open. In 2009, Bee Alive, Jemma Jims, The Forge Discount Shop, Crowing Glory Accessories, Tantalize beauty salon, Deeda Hair salon and a Polish shop declared themselves open for business. And since January 2010, a Kebab house, a lingerie shop, Philpott's Tyre Centre, a beautician, a lingerie shop, and a chicken and kebab house have also opened their doors. A shoe shop, Shubiz is putting the final lick of paint in place and will open on March 26. The Corkman met with Josephine Leonard who opened The Forge Discount Shop in August 2009. When asked why did she open a premises in the height of the worst economic meltdown this country has every experienced, she said: "I really felt that it was a good and viable idea." The Corkman was in shop for maybe less than 10 minutes but within that time frame, at least five people walked in and were shopping for St Patrick's Day. She said her father owned the building where her business was based, so that certainly cut down on trying to find a place to open a business. And any regrets? "Absolutely not," said Josephine as she worked the till and greeted customers as they came in. She said what has been paramount for her business is catering for what people needed and with everyone watching their money, she said she was very mindful of what people could afford. Just a stone's throw away is Jemma Jims, a children's shop. Proprietors Tina Sheehan and her mother, Noreen Cronin opened in October 2009. When Tina was asked was she nervous about opening a children's clothes shop, when luxuries like new clothes would be the first to get the chop, she said not only was she not nervous, but she said that Kanturk town has always had a history of being a strong trading town. "So far, so good for us. We're both happy we took the chance and have no regrets. There's a lot of good spirit in Kanturk," she said. One problem which she did encounter was trying to find a building to open. "Can you believe that, but finding the building really took time," she smiled. Kanturk must be the only town in the country where finding a premises is proving to be a headache, as countless towns throughout the country have premises which are closing down or large signs are placed in shop windows advertising them for rent. The Corkman also ventured into Bee Alive which opened its doors in February 2009 and its proprietor is Pat O'Connor. The Holistic Centre is packed to the rafters with every sort of organic and wholesome food products and during this reporters spell in the shop, at least four people ventured in. The Corkman met with Rockchapel native and staff worker, Mairead O'Keeffe who said the business adventure was certainly going very well. "Despite being open for just over one year, we have built up a very loyal customer base.I really believe what has helped us is the quality of the goods and certainly word of mouth also is great," she said. Banteer native, Mary Frances O'Keeffe opened The Perfect Fit on February 5 this year. The lingerie shop is opened about a month and a half, and when asked why did she open a shop whose goods would be considered quite a luxury, she said that she truly felt that North Cork needed such a business. Another important aspect, she said is that all her goods cost a maximum of €50. "Starting off a new business is certainly a nervous time but so far so good. I've got really great compliments from the business community in Kanturk, and people are travelling from Mallow, Rockchapel and Gneeveguilla to buy sets. People have said to me that they prefer to shop local and stay local. There is a good spirit in Kanturk," she said. 26 year-old Deirdre O'Callaghan opened 'Tantalize' in January which is a tanning and nail bar salon. Certainly January has always been viewed as a particularly grim month for the nation as Christmas is well and truly over. However, she said she was working from home but felt there was a "business opportunity." "I'm glad I took the leap in Kanturk, as you would get nothing done in just standing still. Kanturk is a good trading town," she said. 
