business
{  
    November 09 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/family-planning-26354504.html }
THE statistics for the successful succession of a family business to another member of the clan speak for themselves. Research has indicated that just 27pc of family firms successfully pass on to the second generation, while just 13pc go on to the third generation. In fact, some commentators have gone so far as to say that the successful move of a family business from generation to generation is the 'ultimate test' of the firm in itself. Writing recently, Dr Naomi Birdthistle, of the University of Limerick, said that for every four businesses which continue into the second generation, four do not. "Succession is a highly emotional issue for senior generation owners, as some are reluctant to face their own mortality," she said. "Others grapple with how to split ownership equitably and choose a successor without creating family chaos." The common consensus is that at the heart of a successful transition strategy within a family is a properly thought out planning process. Frank Dold, of consulting firm Focused Business Advisors, said legal and taxation issues must be focused on as well as the transfer of knowledge. "An agreed long-term plan needs to be put in place setting out a course for the firm and detailing the goals of the business," said Mr Mitchell. "Many family businesses fail because the owner dies and hasn't reflected the business succession or transition arrangements in their inheritance planning. "An exit strategy is essential. Many key decisions of your business will be determined by the strategy you have for your exit from it. "An example of this is financing. If you only plan to be in the business for a few years, your financiers will want their money back quickly, and your business structure will have to be able to ensure this." In some cases, developing a successful succession plan may involve hiring outside professionals to run the firm or position it for sale. "A way of overcoming having to choose the successor is to engage the services of an external consultant such as a HR company," said Dr Birdthistle. "The HR company can take on the responsibility of interviewing potential successors, be it family or non-family candidates, and they can guide the founder in his choice and thus nepotism would not be practised." And the planning should be started at an early stage. "From early on, it is important for the family to set priorities for the family and the business; ie, decide which will come first, the family or the business," said Dr Birdthistle. "How this question is answered will influence the planning for the business. The succession plan should be designed at least ten years before the founder expects to retire. "This time-frame will give everyone involved in the business time to prepare for the next generation of management." A training process may also be needed so that the successor can be "groomed" into the role, she said. CEO of the Mayo county enterprise board Frank Fullard says the succession issue will not go away, and the successor must win the confidence of other stakeholders. "To do so, he must achieve both acceptance and credibility," he wrote recently. "Neither alone is sufficient for success. To gain acceptance, he must be perceived as believing in the culture of the organisation, and be seen to act accordingly. "To attain credibility, he must be able to prove his ability, and win the confidence of other stakeholders. "He must be seen to have earned, rather than inherited, the responsibility and respect of his position." Principal of JBW Accountants John White says the sale or transfer of a business attracts capital gains tax, capital acquisitions tax, stamp duty and VAT. Careful planning is needed to minimise tax pitfalls. "Tax concessions are available across most tax heads that allow you to mitigate such capital tax liabilities but, as with all tax concessions, there are a number of conditions that need to be met before relief is granted," he said. "Good communication and structured, coherent planning are the keys to the success and survivability of family business. "You should also appreciate that business succession is not a single event, but rather a long-term process of identifying talent and winning support for change." When the full process has been carried out, all of those who work with the firm, including customers and suppliers, should be made aware of the new management, said Dr Birdthistle.  Tips for passing on a business * HAVE a clear plan laid out over a number of years detailing when the present owner will leave and control is transferred. * Develop a management training process for potential successors to give them the skills to run the business. * Look for taxation advice from an accountant to maximise the tax concessions that are available. * Decide whether an outside agency is required in order to deal with or help the transfer of the business. * Gain the confidence and acceptance of other stakeholders in the business. * Ensure that customers and suppliers and others who deal with the firm are kept informed.  Getting ready for the next generation ALTHOUGH his son Daragh is just three years old, Charlie McGuinness is already thinking about options for the future. With two businesses under his wings, the National Monitoring alarm firm and mobile phone retailer Communication Services as well as property interests, the Monaghan businessman is aware of other companies where poor succession planning led to difficulties. "Over the next couple of years I will look at what I can do, it is not that I have come to a full conclusion on exactly what I am going to do with what business," he said. "I am aware of a couple of situations in family businesses where poor succession planning left difficulties thereafter. "I am focused more on succession but I don't have a rigid plan in place because businesses may change or circumstances may change. "The way I see it, I have three individual businesses and it might be a case where I might want to involve one of the people who is in one of the businesses or give them share options or it might be the case of growing another business." However, he is clear that he will not be pushing his son into the family business. "He may not be interested in any of the businesses, so it would be wrong of me to try and say you should run this business. "If he doesn't want to be there then he shouldn't be there. At my time of retirement, it might be better to get out of the business or sell the business. "It would be important for me not to try and impose something on him that he would be happy doing. "In a few years' time I might try and encourage him towards one of the businesses or all of them - but not if it is something that he doesn't want for himself. "If he doesn't have the appetite for it and he has the appetite for something different, then he needs to go his own way and that is very important." 
