business
{ Jim Kelly 
    September 16 2014 10:18 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/small-business/advice-centre/abundance-of-tax-reliefs-when-passing-on-business-to-next-generation-30590294.html }
Perceived complexity in the area of taxation quite often leads to reluctance in the passing on of a business or a trade. However, this issue has been comprehensively dealt with from tax perspective through  successive legislative introductions.  There are an abundance of tax reliefs encouraging the transfer of business to the next generation and also to third parties.  The principle reliefs dealt with  in this article are Retirement Relief from Capital Gains Tax (CGT), Business Asset Relief from Capital  Acquisitions Tax (CAT) and Transfer of Business Relief from Value Added Tax (VAT) Retirement relief (RR) The disposal of a business either by way of disposal of shares or assets will give rise to a chargeable gain for tax purposes. RR is a relief from CGT which is available to an individual disposing of all or part of the qualifying assets of their business (qualifying assets include business premises, goodwill, business machinery or shares in a family company.)  The effective operation of RR can see the CGT liability on the disposal of these assets reduced to nil.  In order to claim RR certain preconditions must be met. In a departure from established CGT principles which sees tax charged on the gain made from a disposal, RR is calculated by reference to the consideration received rather than any resultant gain. Broadly, RR is split into two categories; disposals to one’s children (including the child of a deceased child and  a ‘favourite niece/nephew’) and disposals to unconnected third parties.  In the case of a disposal to one’s  child, market value consideration is imposed, while for sales to third parties RR is calculated based on the actual consideration received. • The individual making the disposal must be at least 55 years old; • The disposal must be of qualifying business assets have been held for at least 10 years  immediately prior to the disposal – subject to certain variables; • If the disposal is of shares in a family company, the disposer must have been a working director for the 10 years immediately preceding this disposal – subject to certain variables. It is important to note that although the relief is called “Retirement Relief”, there is no requirement that the individual disposing of the business assets actually retires. The individual can remain actively involved in the business and retain a shareholding and/or directorship.   Disposal to a Child Where an individual disposes of business assets to a child, provided the qualifying conditions above are met, full CGT relief is available regardless of the consideration or the market value of the shares.  However, effective from 1 January 2014 there is a limit of €3m on the consideration for disposals of such assets made by individuals aged 66 or over. CGT will apply to that part of the consideration which exceeds this limit. The CGT which would have been chargeable in the first place if RR had not been available will become payable by the child who received the assets if those assets are disposed of within 6 years of acquisition.   Disposal to a Third Party For an individual aged between 55 and 66 years, the upper limit of consideration for sales to an unconnected third party is €750,000. With effect from 1 January 2014 this will be reduced to €500,000 for disposals made by individuals aged over 66.    Business Asset Relief for Capital Acquisitions Tax (CAT)  CAT is important for the transfer of assets to the next generation as it is the key tax that will impact on passing on of wealth. CAT is payable by the child on the receipt of a gift of shares in a family company from a parent and is charged on the market value of shares. Transfer of Business Relief from CAT on a gift of business assets provides that the relief operates by way of a reduction of 90pc in the ‘taxable value’ of the business assets, ie the market value of the business assets less any liabilities incurred in its operation.  Only relevant business property qualifies for the relief. Business property includes property consisting of a business or an interest in a business ie a sole trade/partnership, land, buildings, plant/machinery owned or used for the purposes of a trade. It can also include shares in a trading company.  If the benefit is comprised of qualifying and non-qualifying business assets, the business liabilities are deducted from the business assets and general liabilities, costs and expenses are deducted from the non-qualifying business assets. This is a concession granted by Revenue in order to reduce the value of taxable non-business assets which cannot avail of the relief. Similar to RR, a clawback of the relief will apply if within six years from the date of acquisition if the assets cease to qualify as relevant business property. The tax will be re-calculated as if they were not business assets at the time of their acquisition and this tax is payable by the child. In certain circumstances CGT paid by a parent can be taken as a credit to reduce the CAT liability which may be payable by the child. This relief can effectively reduce the child’s CAT liability to zero. Stamp Duty Stamp Duty applies to the transfer of shares in a company at a rate of 1%. On a gift of shares from a parent to a child, stamp duty will be payable on the market value of the shares, and is payable by the child. There is no relief from stamp duty in respect of a transfer of shares. However in the event that the individual is transferring assets, in circumstances where these assets can pass by delivery ie no stampable document is required, no stamp duty will apply to such transfers. Transfer of Business Relief for Value Added Tax (VAT) Where a purchaser acquires the shares of a company, no VAT arises on the share sale. This is because the transfer of shares is VAT exempt activity. On the other hand where a purchaser acquires the assets of the business, this does not constitute a VAT exempt transaction and strictly speaking VAT would be chargeable at 23pc on the majority of the transfer.  However, where VAT transfer of business relief applies, the transfer of these assets is deemed not to be a supply for VAT purposes.  In order for relief to apply the transfer of the assets must be a transfer to a VAT accountable person of the totality of assets (or part thereof) of a business, where those transferred assets constitute an undertaking which is capable of being operated on an independent basis. Jim Kelly is a tax specialist at Grant Thornton. Online Editors 
