business
{ JOHN FITZGERALD B.COMM A.C.A. 
    November 04 2009 09:21 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/lifestyle/your-money-a-good-plan-is-vital-for-start-up-businesses-27388398.html }
THE ongoing recession has resulted in numerous job losses across the country and has left many people at an unexpected crossroads in their lives. For many people unemployment, coupled with falling wages and increased free time, has translated into the perfect opportunity to put a business idea into action and to become your own boss. While in theory it sounds easy, in practice starting a new business can be hard work and there will be many obstacles and pitfalls along the way but the potential rewards for success can make it well worthwhile. Before starting off you should consider why it is that some companies fail and more companies continue to be successful even in a recession. One of the main reasons is good planning to help stay ahead of the game. A well-built house needs a good plan before the project starts at all. Many people have said Kerry won the All Ireland this year because of the tactics they employed against an arguably better Cork team. Despite the slow start they stuck to their plan and it paid off. Similarly start-up businesses can be quite complex, particularly for a first timer who has no prior experience in this area but if you have a good plan in place to help identify problems in advance and you stick to that plan the chances of overcoming these hurdles are much higher. FINANCIAL PLANNING Unfortunately for many businesses, both at a start up stage and on an ongoing basis, planning is never considered and it is often the reason that many businesses are unsuccessful. This is regretful as designing and implementing a plan can be quite straightforward and will clearly highlight where and when pitfalls can arise and ensure you are prepared for them in advance. It essentially sets out what you want to achieve and more importantly, the most cost effective route to get there. When starting out in business there are many hidden costs, which you may not be familiar with. You will need to know if VAT will be due on your sales, if and when will you be liable to a rates bill, are you liable to PAYE / PRSI on your employee wages and if so how much, what is the cost of financing your business and how much will a rise in interest rates cost you, what can you afford to spend on advertising, what will your spend on motor costs be and so on. As you can see now, your business is getting a little more complex. On top of that you may have a liability to income tax or corporation tax and you will need to decide if you are going to trade as a company, a sole trade or a partnership and the implications for each of these. LOAN FINANCE AND CASH FLOW A business plan helps you set out all of the aforementioned factors and determine what is a safe borrowing level in terms of your anticipated repayment capacity. One of the lessons we have learned from the recent past is how easy it is to over-borrow, in many cases without getting an adequate return on those borrowings. The minimum return required on any borrowings is that which covers any costs involved and your repayments. It is crucial that you seek a level of borrowing that you and your business is comfortable with and all forms of loan finance must be given adequate consideration, as excessive repayments could seriously hinder your future cash flow. Consideration should also be given to the length of the repayment term of a loan. A simple measure you could use is to equate the repayment term of the loan to the life span of your asset or shorter if you have adequate cash resources. For example you should not buy a van on a 20 year loan, as you will still be repaying that loan long after the van is gone. Similarly you should not buy a premises using a five year loan, as this will place considerable strain on more immediate cash flow requirements through higher repayments. Structuring the term of the loan correctly helps ensure adequate cash flow is in place to meet your day-to-day cash flow obligations. The most important financing available to a start up business to meet its day-to-day costs is generally an overdraft facility. Your overdraft facility is a means of financing your day to day business but if you see your overdraft increasing you're either using incorrect finance facilities or your business is not performing as you hoped and it may be time to take action. As your business becomes more successful, your cash funds will grow and if it is left in your bank current account then it is probably not being put to its best use. You should therefore consider managing your wealth. This can be as easy as investing in a high rate deposit account, providing for your retirement or to expand or diversify your business. Alternatively, you may consider reducing your loans, thus making savings on loan interest repayments. As a conclusion, it is highly recommended that every business have a current business plan, regardless of whether you are a start up or an established business. This plan is an invaluable tool to business owners, highlighting the most cost and tax efficient way to run the business and ensure it is a success. OTHER KEY AREAS YOU MAY PLAN FOR Marketing is a key area of any business plan. It goes without saying that unless you can sell your product or service you will fail in business. The first thing you should do is to identify your target market. After this you may consider undertaking market research to determine what potential customers expect from the product or service you are offering and if they would consider availing of it. The questions posed should be designed to optimise the feedback you get in order to establish if your product or service is suitable for your market. It is wise to know exactly what your target market wants and expects from you before you start investing in what you think they want. This could save you a substantial amount of time and money. Based on a relatively small sample, you could project results for your entire target market whether that is your local town, county, Ireland or further afield. Distribution is another key area. If you cannot get your product or service to your customers in a timely and suitable manner your business is unlikely to succeed. There are many avenues available to you from arranging your own delivery, outsourcing, bringing the customer to you or selling your service over the Internet. Again you should consider the option that best suits you and your target market and the advantages and disadvantages each option poses. You should also find out who are your main competitors and analyse what they are doing in terms of systems they have in place, services they provide and what they are offering. This will allow you to make improvements to your own product/service and show you how you can differentiate yourself from the competition to gain a competitive advantage. LOCAL ENTERPRISE BOARD AND TAX EFFICIEN- CIES The Kerry County Enterprise Board provides business advice, support and a contact point to help small companies. They also offer various grants and training for your business and their website, www.kerryenterprise.ie is well worth a visit. As well as the advisory services being offered by the Kerry County Enterprise Board, the state has a number of tax schemes in place to help start up businesses. The more prominent schemes include: companies operating free of corporation tax for the first three years, provided certain conditions have been met; the business expansion scheme; and the availability of seed capital relief. There is also generous tax relief available for R&D expenditure within business. Given the above reliefs and state aid and the present willingness in Irish society to nurture innovation and entrepreneurial ventures, this might be the perfect time to take that first step. It is advisable to speak to a reputable accountant or business advisor in order to get your business plan right from the start. With a good plan behind you and by availing of the help and tax relief that is there for you, the world is your oyster and perhaps by the time the next All-Ireland comes around you will be well on your way to meeting the potential your idea has to offer! Should you have any feedback or queries on this article or in relation to any aspects of business planning, please do not hesitate to contact us. For past articles and recent publications, please see the news section on our website at www.pscwealthplus.com 
