business
{ Sarah McCabe 
    November 21 2014 09:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/entrepreneurs-who-sell-the-business-to-live-the-dream-30764592.html }
Different trends come in and out of fashion in business just as they do in wider popular culture. In the 1990s, a sports car told the world you were really successful; now the most high-powered chief executives, such as Kingspan's Gene Murtagh, are buying eco-friendly Teslas.  For many years an expensive pinstripe suit was the mark of a serious player; now the most powerful executives show up to meetings in jeans. Today, the real mark of success for Ireland's business community in 2014 is a corporate exit. Sell your company for anything over a million and you are a superstar. You must have been living under a rock to miss ex-RTE anchor Mark Little's sale of media company Storyful to News Corp for €18m, or Emmet O'Neill's sale of Smiles Dental for €35m. Now the first question business journalists ask start-up founders is: "When are you going to sell?" Web Summit founder Paddy Cosgrave was plagued with the question throughout his three-day conference earlier this month. Start-ups at the very beginning of their lifespan are told again and again to keep their exit in mind at all times. All of that hype is disingenuous. It ignores the fact that a sale is a rare and difficult thing. Nor is it always the most favourable outcome. Anyone who has actually done it will tell you that the truth is far messier than the glossy success story it appears to onlookers. From Superquinn to Cooley to Cartrawler, company sales share the same common themes of frustration and false starts, big bills and back-breaking hours. John Teeling was doing it before it was cool. The manufacturing and mining tycoon - familiar to many from his lecturing days at UCD - has started and sold multiple companies over the years, beginning in the 1970s. Their ranks include Kenmare Resources and African Diamonds. Those experiences stood him well when the big kahuna came along in 2011 - Jim Beam bought his whiskey business Cooley Distillery for €73m. Teeling rails against the idea that entrepreneurs should start their businesses with the ultimate aim of selling. "I know a different approach has become the norm for technology companies, but I have never, ever established a business to sell it. The people who tell you to keep your exit in mind are corporate financiers. My aim was always to build and own things. "I wanted to develop an oil field, a gold field and a diamond mine. To me, setting up your business with your exit in mind is a weakness. "Maybe it comes down to the sectors I operate in; manufacturing and natural resources are very long-term gains and require decades of work. I am amazed at people in technology who sell their businesses after a year. I think that is a bubble and it will burst." He sold Cooley as he could not find the cash to expand it. "Around 2007 it became obvious that we needed to fund a massive expansion. Opportunities for Irish whiskey were opening up, the world was realising the value of this product and we needed money. But our shareholders were already tapped out, so we started to look at other options. "Between 2010 and 2011 we had approaches from five different people - when it rains, it pours. One of the best things we did in that sale was, at the very beginning, we set a minimum price - a number that could only be increased, not decreased. "We also restricted due diligence [where the buyer brings in lawyers to identify flaws in a potential acquisition]. That was essential. All of these advisers are paid by the hour and they are paid to find problems. The whole thing is controlled by lawyers. It is appalling, it has just gone mad." Selling under pressure will never produce the best possible result, says Teeling. "If you sell under pressure you just won't get the right price. We had to sell African Diamonds because we just could not persuade anyone to give us the money to develop our mine. "We sold our 40pc stake for around $90m, and now the company makes an annual profit of $160m. We should have hung onto it, but we couldn't. "Ideally you want to be selling when you are not being forced to, in a time of growth for your sector, a rising tide." An older hand at the selling game is Feargal Quinn, the founder of Superquinn. He set up his supermarket group in 1960 and sold it to a property consortium in 2005 for around €400m. It changed hands again in 2005, snapped up by Musgrave for a song at €100m. "Hardly a year went by when I wasn't approached for a sale, but I just had no interest; I enjoyed it all too much, the challenges, getting up for work every day, visiting stores all over the world for ideas. Life is in the journey, not the destination, after all. But as I approached my 70th birthday I realised that I couldn't stay in the game forever." The consortium that bought Superquinn from him was primarily involved in property development, not retail. Its property investments were blamed when the group went in to receivership six years later. Quinn defends it as "the right fit at the time". "Two things swung it: they placed a higher value on our business than we ourselves did, and their approach secured the jobs of the people who worked for Superquinn. They weren't going to drastically change it or break it apart and sell it - they wanted to expand." Selling a family business can be a particularly tricky process, he says. "You must keep everyone in the loop. Do not lose the trust of your family at the time when you need it most." What about the impact of watching your business be transformed, for better or worse, by its new owners? The loss of the Superquinn name when Musgrave merged the brand with SuperValu "was admittedly tough. But other than that, I was happy to let the new owners do their thing. They are doing a good job. It is a different product now - but nothing ever stays the same, it can't". Mark Little's sale of Storyful to News Corp last year was one of the biggest success stories of the year. He stayed on as chief executive and now works between New York and Dublin. He takes a different approach to Teeling and Quinn. Start-ups founders should always keep their exit in mind, he says - not because they should be focused on a sale, but because if they do eventually want to sell, they will need to be able to stand over every decision they made from the very beginning. One common mistake is giving away too much equity early on. He also advises finding a really good team of legal and financial advisers. "We had a team of four working on the deal before there was even a bid on the table. You can't bootstrap your way through the legal stuff, particularly if you are dealing with US companies. I am a little tired of hearing about lean start-ups. "There are some things that you need to spend on and lawyers are one of them. "Think of all the legal minefields involved in a sale process; many founders have a substantial amount of personal liability and may have given personal guarantees. "Luckily, Ireland has fantastic advisers. Martin Kelleher from Mason Hayes and Curran worked with Storyful and was brilliant. These guys are world class." Another well-known success story is Niall Harbison, who started young, grew fast and sold early - and was a multi-millionaire before he turned 33. His first business tanked, but Harbison's next project - digital media agency Simply Zesty - was a different story. Founded in his kitchen with a friend, he sold it three years later to UTV for €3m. He has invested some of that cash in other new companies, photo agency PR Slides and foodie blog Lovin Dublin. Why sell Simply Zesty so early? "We had gotten a couple of approaches at that stage. Myself and co-founder Lauren Fisher thought we were young enough that we could move on and do something else. "And the proceeds allowed us to do things like buy houses. And when we sold we were just exhausted - we had been working flat out for three years." He's another one who rails against due diligence. "Due diligence is just a way for the buyer to get the price down, as far as I'm concerned." It was hard to give up, he says. "It's very difficult - your business is like your baby. There is a grieving process involved. And you are constantly asking yourself whether it could get bigger and be more successful if you stuck with it." The secrecy involved in the sale process - which took six months, twice as long as he expected - was a surprise. "You have to hide all the early stuff from staff to prevent everyone being unnerved. Their first question is always going to be what is going to happen to their jobs - and rightly so. If you see these people every day, it's really difficult. I did not enjoy the secrecy at all." Bids can do a business real damage, he adds. "I've seen a couple of people who have been approached by their competitors as a business tactic, because they get distracted and their core business really suffers. This stuff really turns your head, takes your eye off the ball. Only sell when you are ready to sell." Bobby Healy has sold two businesses and started five. His first sell was Eland, a company which he founded in Mexico City in the 1990s and which makes software for airlines. It went for a figure somewhere north of $10m, but less than $20m. Healy used some of the proceeds to invest in Cartrawler, the wildly successful car-hire business set up a year before by Irish brothers Niall and Greg Turley. He sold a big chunk of his stake in a fundraising exercise a few years later which saw the Turleys exit Cartrawler for good. "If we hadn't done that first round of fundraising and diluted my stake I'd be a much richer man today. There is no denying it. But you can't look at it like that - you have to play the cards as they are dealt. Most people sell their businesses too early. If you are offered a big cheque after years of slog it is hard not to. But remember that the reason businesses get bought is because they are good investments; private equity investors expect a return of three to five times their original investment. "If you have a good business idea you should work hard to find the finance to grow it yourself, not hand it over to someone else. Unfortunately, Ireland is a difficult place to do that. Good businesses here are taking on €500,000 when they should be taking on €10m or €15m. The pool of available finance here is small." Kerry native Jerry Kennelly sold his online stock photo businesses Stockbyte and Stockdisc to Getty Images for $135m in 2006. He made the leap in anticipation that the market he was in was going south. "We were being approached regularly by potential buyers and investors and I had decided that our market space was overheated and that a collapse in capital values would occur, which would hugely damage my companies, Stockbyte and Stockdisc. "I got to understand that was I an investor in my own company as well as being an entrepreneur. It was clear to me that if I didn't crystallise my gain it might diminish, so it was a simple logical decision. "I would advise other entrepreneurs to be aware of valuations in their sector generally - and of their own company in particular. It's important to know what makes their company valuable, particularly through the eyes of an acquirer." In line with his prediction, capital values of companies in the space fell 70pc in the 18 months following the transaction. Selling a business requires huge tenacity, he says. "Holding your nerve for five months through many highs and lows was difficult - even for a thick Kerryman! If the process had collapsed my companies would have been seriously damaged." But he had an all-round positive experience otherwise. "I wouldn't do anything differently. I had the dream team of advisers and I don't think we could have gotten a penny more or treated our people any better - €5m after tax was shared among my 28 staff. Getty moved the operation to Dublin, where they now employ 48 people. If Carlsberg did deals, this was it." The aftermath of a sale is an interesting time. Rowan Devereux, who sold his 50pc stake in Blue Insurances to business partner Ciaran Mulligan last year for an eight-figure sum, had a very positive experience selling his company - but was unprepared for what came next. "I thought I was ready, but when the time came to leave I was very emotional - I could hardly speak. "You do feel a bit adrift and disrupted afterwards... so much of your persona and standing in the business community is linked to your company. He found the sale process surprisingly easy. "Selling to your business partner is quite straightforward - they already know all they need to about the company, there's no fear of skeletons in the closet. "You have all these preconceptions about what it will be like, the Hollywood image. But it was very relaxed for me. I'd urge other people doing the same to try and enjoy it. It is not often you get to sell a business. I tried being retired at 44, but it didn't suit me... I'm not going to work on my golf handicap alone when everyone else my age is in work. So I dove right back in and invested in three or four Irish technology start-ups. But I do love having more time; I have four kids after all." Feargal Quinn says much the same. There was "definitely an emotional aspect" to selling a business he put decades of his life into and which carried his name. "The key thing is to know what is next - to have a plan, something to move on to. I had been a senator since 2003 and chairman of An Post for 10 years before I sold Superquinn. That meant I wasn't waking up in the morning after we sold trying to figure out what to do. Writing a few books kept me busy, too." Sunday Indo Business 
