business
{  
    August 20 2009 10:15 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/calling-all-connacht-businesses-to-enter-the-2009-ulster-bank-business-achievers-awards-27566097.html }
10th August 2009: Businesses across Connacht are invited to enter the 2009 Ulster Bank Business Achievers Awards. The awards, which are in association with the Irish Independent, Enterprise Ireland and InterTradeIreland, aim to celebrate business success, irrespective of business offering, size, sector or location. Shortlisted Leinster businesses will be rewarded at provincial level in November before finalists go on to compete for the national title at an all-island awards ceremony in February 2010. This is the 16th year of the awards, which were revamped and expanded last year. Over 400 businesses North and South entered the 2008 awards, a 400% increase on the previous year. Galway based company, Almotech Ltd., leading manufacturers of online jukeboxes and digital music management systems, was crowned winner in the Best Business Start-Up Award category at the national final of the 2008 awards. Entries are open to established businesses, startups and entrepreneurs whose businesses have demonstrated innovation and leadership in overcoming the current challenges in the marketplace. Businesses can enter themselves or can be nominated in one or more of eight categories: One-to-Watch Award International Business Award Social Entrepreneurship Award Best Business Start-up Award Family Run Business Award Green Business Award Agriculture, Food and Drink Award Emerging Technology Award Connacht finalists from each category will receive local and national media coverage, entry into the national awards and a dedicated profile page on the Business Achievers Awards website. The overall winner will receive a comprehensive prize package including an Executive Education programme at Harvard University Business School, €50,000 worth of advertising space in the Irish Independent and two years membership of the Institute of Directors. Entries will close on 31st October 2009 and the Provincial Award Winners will be announced in November, with the overall Ulster Bank Business Achiever and Category winners announced in February. Speaking at the Leinster launch of the awards Brendan McDermott, Regional Director, Ulster Bank said; "I would strongly encourage Connacht businesses to enter The Ulster Bank Business Achievers Awards, as it will give them an opportunity to showcase their achievements on a national level. It also promotes business networking, enabling shortlisted businesses to build valuable contacts, which is essential in today's business environment." Vivian Dooley, Founder of Almotech Ltd and winner of the 2008 Best Business Start Up Award was in attendance at the Connacht launch. Speaking about the awards he said; "Winning an Ulster Bank Business Achievers Award at both provincial and national level has been hugely beneficial for Almotech. The awards have raised the company's profile, helping us to attract new contacts and customers. I strongly urge business across Connacht to enter the Business Achievers Awards, as now, more than ever, promoting your business is essential." Companies will be judged on a variety of merits including sales performance, market share growth, company milestones, innovative new products or services and successful achievements by key personnel. The Ulster Bank Business Achievers Awards are open for entry or nomination by individuals or businesses at www.businessachieversawar d.com or contact (01) 6084030. 
