business
{  
    February 25 2009 11:57 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/lifestyle/enterprise-board-offering-helping-hand-to-companies-27791643.html }
At the same time, never before has the Fingal County Enterprise Board been busier, providing advice, guidance and encouragement to the numerous smaller companies established in the area. The economic problems have in turn brought some form of prosperity, with more and more people thinking laterally and forming new businesses. That kind of inertia is vital for Fingal and Ireland to escape the slump, the FCEB's chief executive, Oisin Geogheghan insisted. After completing a masters in Business Studies UCD, Mr Geoghegan worked for several years in business development, sales and export marketing for two small Irish and Scandinavian industrial equipment manufacturing businesses. That gave him firsthand experience of dealing with the business development problems that small businesses face in difficult trading environments. Mr Geoghegan joined the FCEB in July, 2000, and since then 'every single day has posed new challenges'. Married to Grainne, with three young boys, he lives in Maynooth, County Kildare. What are the main roles of the Fingal County Enterprise Board? FCEB is a small organisation and can move quickly to provide practical local responses to business needs. With only five staff employed at FCEB the administration costs are very low proportionate to the level of activity that the board provides. The key objectives of the board are to create employment in small businesses, to encourage business start-ups, to assist small businesses with growth potential and to create an entrepreneurial culture. FCEB provides a range of support services to 'microenterprises' (small businesses) and to aspiring entrepreneurs.  Did you ever think you would see days like these? It was obvious that the boom years of the Celtic Tiger would not go on forever and that there would be a downturn at some time, it was only a matter of when. Capitalist economies are cyclical and always will be. Our over-reliance on the construction sector was always unhealthy. However, some of the factors that have contributed to our current severe difficulties could not have been predicted. The global credit crunch, the banking crisis, the consequent nationalisation of banks in this country is something that no-one predicted. We are in unchartered waters and in years to come, we will be judged on our responses to the current crisis.  What do you think are the key elements, firstly to surviving this crisis, and secondly to future prosperity? From business perspective, owner/managers of small businesses need to focus on survival. In the short term, businesses should determine their vulnerabilities and identify ways of addressing them immediately. A new objective analysis of the business's internal strengths and weaknesses and external opportunities and threats will be a starting point. Many businesses can adapt rapidly to their changed environment and this may mean reinventing themselves. Diversification and rationalisation form the basis of the new mantra for a large number of businesses. Survival for businesses means reducing costs, getting paid quicker, cutting out inefficiencies, maintaining sales levels and keeping a sharp eye on the bottom line. Looking forward I believe that in many cases it will be 'back to basics'. Our economy should not be built around one or two sectors. We need to have a broad and healthily balanced commercial base. We need to grow our own prosperity and not be overly reliant on FDI. We need a healthy construction sector, but one that is sustainable and not have it as the centrepiece of our industrial prosperity. Sustainable growth in construction should be the result of strong economic activity and prosperity, rather than the sector that we all point to as leading our economic prosperity. It is often said that 'small business is the lifeblood of our local economies'. I completely agree with this, but we need to take it more seriously than we, as a country, do at present. Enterprise nearly always starts on a small microbasis and we should aim to build a strong indigenous business base, with encouragement provided to enterprise at every step of the way.  How many new businesses have sprung up in recent months? One of the positive results of the bad news stories in relation to redundancies is that there has been a substantial surge in the level of interest in enterprise in recent months. Over the last months we have been busier than ever, dealing with new queries and providing guidance and assistance to people who wish to set up their own business. As to how many actually go on to set up it remains to be seen and part of our job is to try to ensure that would-be entrepreneurs make the best decision for them in this regard, by careful consideration and appropriate planning. This is what maximises the business success rate.  Have you noticed many people changing tact and retraining in different fields, as a result of the slowdown? We have certainly noticed that the type of training businesses are looking for has changed. Formal training has moved substantially to training that helps business survival and diversification. Also, there has been a massive increase among business owner/managers to avail of every networking opportunity and our business networks are delivering on this now.  Is it a good time to start a business? And if so, in what areas? Certainly there are opportunities out there now and many would say that establishing a business in a slowdown is the best time to do so, if you can successfully start trading now, you will be well placed to capitalise on the upturn when it comes around. Despite all the bad news (much of it being propagated by certain elements of the media), some sectors are holding their own and some are even growing and providing new opportunities. They would include such niche markets in sectors including food, green energy, green projects, education and re-training, ICT companies, bioscience projects and pharma, creative industries such as multimedia, music, arts, private healthcare, equipment maintenance and service engineering, and the provision of services that will result in cost savings for businesses and the public in general.  What advice would you have for prospective business people? Be positive yet realistic, network as much as possible in the right circles, be creative about how you can survive and thrive, and think outside the box. Also, do not bury your head in the sand – confront your business problems and find a solution.  Does Fingal have any advantages over other areas when it comes to enterprise? Where do I begin! Yes, I believe we are very fortunate in Fingal and our long term future is very bright. We are part of the capital, we have the country's main airport, we have a unique urban/rural balance, we have a significant coastline, we have a very vibrant and young population and we have a strong industrial base. We also have the most progressive enterprise board in the country. I could go on, that is for starters.  When will the recession pass, in your opinion? Obviously it is difficult to say how long before confidence returns in sufficient measure that will be reflected in economic growth, some sectors are experiencing a correction and our cost base must come back into line with our EU neighbours. We as an economy need to be more competitive and it is important to remember that we do have a lot of control over this collectively – we have the wherewithal to bring forward economic recovery by working to common objectives 
