business
{ Sean Gallagher 
    January 31 2015 08:14 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/nightlines-long-journey-from-the-spare-bedroom-to-a-parcel-motel-30953510.html }
In 1992, when friends John Tuohy and Dave Field set up their own courier business in the spare bedroom of John's house, they had no idea of just how successful their business would become.  Today, with 800 direct and indirect staff and a turnover of more than €50m, their Nightline Group has become the largest independent parcel and freight delivery firm in Ireland. So much so that these days, you can't drive very far without coming across the familiar sight of one of their white and green nightline vans as they make their way across the country. This week I visited John, the Nightline CEO, in one of their main depots - a 100,000 sq ft facility on Jamestown Road, Finglas - to learn what it is that has made Nightline so successful. For a business that delivered over 120,000 parcels in the month of December alone, what immediately strikes me is how incredibly clean, tidy and well organised their depot is. I quickly learn that this is a place where systems, processes and technology are key to efficiently processing such high volumes of deliveries. "The secret of our success comes down to one simple promise: to get our customers' letter, document, parcel, package or consignment to its destination on time, on budget, anywhere on the planet," explains John confidently. "We have over 1,300 regular client businesses across almost every conceivable business sector from major retail brands and multi-national tech giants to large engineering companies and small to start-up businesses," he adds. For every business, getting your finished product into the hands of your customers is key. Because of the growing expense of owning and running company vehicles, more and more businesses are now using professional courier services to deliver their goods. With no upfront capital costs, no driver overheads and no repairs or down time and a guarantee of on-time deliveries, it easy to see why there is a growing demand for John's services. "Our business is now made up of five separate divisions," explains John. "Our Nightline delivers is our core service where we will pick up or delivery a package anywhere on the island of Ireland. "Our Nightline International division delivers packages anywhere in the world through a combination of our own depots and our international affiliations. "Our Nightline Logistics division offers a supply chain management system to companies where we offer secure storage and a complete pick-pack-and-delivery service of their own products to their own customers. "And we also work in conjunction with international mail companies, through our Eirpost division where we offer businesses fast, secure and affordable global mail services," adds John. However, for many business and consumer alike, Nightline has increasingly become known for its innovative Parcel Motel initiative. Parcel Motels are small digitally operated "drop boxes", conveniently located around the country in places such as filling stations and shopping centres. For consumers who can't be at home to receive their package, they simply have them delivered to their nearest Parcel Motel and, through the provision of a secure access code, can retrieve their parcel at their leisure. Much of the success of the initiative lies in the fact that more and more consumers are now shopping on line. "We also found that many of our customers were trying to order products such as clothing or electronics from UK websites but would not deliver to an address outside the UK. By providing our Nightline address in Belfast, a customer can have their purchased items delivered there where our vans collect them every day and deliver them to that person's nearest Parcel Motel here in the south," explains John. It's an initiative that has proved hugely successful for the company with more than one million parcels already processed since it launched. The service now has over 150,000 users signed up, and that number is continuing to grow at a rate of 200 new users every day. It's a far cry from where the pair first started. John and Dave are both from Artane in Dublin. In fact, they grew up on the very same street, only a few doors away from each other. John left school early. Having tried his hand at a few different things, he eventually got a job as a driver with a local courier firm. Dave too became a driver and both eventually found themselves working for the same multi-national courier business. Prior to taking up the job, John had spent two years completing a start your own business course with what was then known as Anco. "I loved it. It was also the first time I had ever heard about things like cash flow and marketing. In terms of enterprise training, it was visionary for its time," he adds. And while he didn't start his own business straight away, the seeds were sown. Dave too had also secretly harboured the idea of setting up his own business if the opportunity ever presented itself. And that opportunity presented itself, when, in 1992, both John and Dave were offered redundancy from their then employer. They decided it was time to act and moved to set up a new courier business. They each invested €10,000 and for the first few weeks, ran the business out of a spare bedroom in John's house. "We had just two vans and one mobile phone between us," recalls John with a laugh. And like most start-ups, they tried to project that they were bigger than they actually were. In the morning, they would don their suits and ties and head to meet potential customers. By the afternoon they would be back in their company uniforms sorting parcels in the warehouse and by evening would be busy sorting invoices and managing their credit control. "Looking after credit control ourselves really helped our cash flow in the early years," explains John. "So much so that we never needed outside investment and have been able to reply on a combination of re-investment of profits and bank debt to support our growth ever since," he adds. As they began to win business, the pair decided to move into a proper premises and found a serviced office building over a meat factory near the airport. Two weeks after moving in, the building completely burned down. Undeterred, the pair started again with the support of the building's owner who helped them locate an alternative premises. Things progressed steadily from there until, a year later, they were able to hire their first employee (Caroline). That too became an important milestone in John's own life - as the pair later married. By the early 1990s, John and Dave had found a high value niche and found themselves working with some of Ireland's largest and best known manufacturing firms. "When a machine would break down, we would ensure that the spare parts would be delivered to the factory as quickly as possible. Companies needed these parts delivered and installed within hours rather than days, as any delays in production meant significant amounts of lost revenue," explains John. The pair developed a skill and a reputation for providing a trusted, highly responsive and mission-critical delivery service. It was a skill that would serve them well when they were forced to change direction when Ireland's growing cost base resulted in many manufacturers moving operations to lower-cost countries. John and Dave then began targeting a new order of businesses which needed to deliver high-value products to their customers - including mobile phones, games consoles and fashion items. In doing so, they navigated their way through a challenge that could otherwise have proved damaging to the business. Always willing to take on new opportunities, the company won a contract in 2004 with a major consumer electronics firm that required them to open a base in Northern Ireland. Since then they have developed this into a substantial business employing over 100 people. With business growing and volumes increasing dramatically, in 2007 the company moved into their Jamestown Road facility - and with this extra capacity were better equipped to compete with larger multi-national couriers. At this point the pair began to look at their own branding. They commissioned research, and were surprised to discover a low level of brand awareness among business customers of their brand compared to their competitors. Disappointed, they nonetheless saw this as an opportunity and immediately commissioned a designer to create a totally new brand identity for the business. "Up to that point, most of our investment was in new equipment or new vans. However, as soon as we began to invest in advertising and marketing, business immediately began to increase," explains John. "For the first time I really understood the power of marketing," he admits. Since then, Nightline's business has more than doubled - and John believes that their rebranding exercise played a significant role in that increased growth. Even through all their growth, both John and Dave remain very much hands-on in the business. We play to our individual and combined skills," explains John. "At a high level, I look after the areas of strategy and planning for the business while Dave focuses more on operations and customer relations," he adds. What does he see as the real secret to their success? "Better technology, better people and better customer service," says John in a flash. John and Dave always wanted to be entrepreneurs. After years of working in a courier company they both took the opportunity to invest their redundancy money in a new business. They worked hard, stayed close to their customers and strategically responded to the market's changing demands. Their story is a real inspiration to all those who have ever thought of starting their own business. It is proof that all you need is to identify a gap in the market, develop the skills and the mindset to exploit that opportunity and be willing to fully commit yourself to making it a success. If it is true that most of the regrets in our lives are caused not by the things we do but by the things we leave undone, John and Dave need have no such regrets. "If you have an idea about how to make a difference and the drive to make it happen, you don't want to look back in the future and regret not doing something about it." "Aspire to excellence in business and do your best to constantly maintain those standards. If you do, that attitude will rub off on clients and colleagues alike." "Dynamism is nothing without a well-thought-out strategy. Being able to show that you have considered all options before you act gains respect from others." Sunday Indo Business 
