business
{  
    January 24 2010 04:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/theres-more-to-business-than-paying-the-revenue-its-a-juggling-act-26625679.html }
IT has all the elements of a Greek tragedy. Two latter-day Icaruses who flew too close to the sun and their Gucci wings melted somewhere over St Stephen's Green. That a High Court judge was calling Christian and Simon Stokes "delinquent directors" -- and refusing to appoint an examiner to protect their now-insolvent members-only club -- showed how far they and their fortunes had fallen. For years, the twin sons of Jeff Stokes and Pia Bang were the talk of the town for all the right reasons. That has changed. There was something rotten in the heart of Residence. There is a sense that the two posh boys, once of Sandford Park School, have got their deserved comeuppance. I wouldn't like to think so. In May 2008, Christian and Simon took a punt at a private members club -- frequented by Bono et al -- as the recession was beginning to do its worst. It was a bold idea. Alas, they fell on their buff arses, spectacularly. These are people who are feted as heroes in good times and treated as monsters in bad. We loved Simon and Christian Stokes in the boom as golden boys of the Celtic economy. And now in the recession we hold them up against the light in search of their flaws, their greed, their hubris, their vulgarity. I know Christian reasonably well. He is a good egg. On Thursday evening, he agreed to sit down for a coffee in his dad's restaurant, The Unicorn, and talk about this week from hell for him and his brother. Some would argue that he put himself in the hellish position. And that Dante has a special pit in hell reserved for bosses who deducted money from employees' salaries but don't pass it on to the Revenue and instead use that money as working capital. Christian doesn't seem his normal calm, collected, GQ magazine-cool self. He seems rattled and down. You would have to be heartless not to feel for this 34-year-old. He looks like he hasn't slept properly in a month. If he has been sleeping he probably hopes the recent developments are a bad dream. Emotionally, he says, he is "hurting". "Christmas was very tough. My wife is having a baby," he adds. "I've been trying to say to her: 'Look, we'll pull through it'. I'm lucky that I have a wife as strong as I do, and a family. I wouldn't have got through it without my wife and my parents and my brother and his wife. My dad and my mum have been unbelievable. "And the support from members has been incredible. Members of the public too. Random people with messages of support. We are where we are. This is Ireland. We have made mistakes and we are trying to rectify them." In hindsight, he says, there are lots of things he wouldn't have done. "In the circumstances, we were trying to open a business and all we're guilty of is doing what we could do to survive through the hardest year in living memory. And 2010 is not going to be much better. I can't help but feel upset as a human being for where we are at," he says. "But we just have to try and be strong. We are operating the club on the bank's behalf. The bank sees us as an integral part of Residence, as do all the members, and they don't want to see us go. So we are trying to find a purchaser for the business who is going to work with me and Simon in the future." The Mail's headline of "Delinquents!" is not atypical of the media coverage of Residence's High Court case, which he feels more than aggrieved about. "When they report it, they don't report it as if we're human beings. I've been fodder for them. I think people have been venting everything that is going on in Ireland in the recession, and we are used as whipping boys. I am just focused now on trying to save our jobs. "Those are people's opinions. The people who know me know what I'm like, and that's all that matters to me. Some people out there are going to dislike me and others like me -- that is the way life goes," Christian continues. I ask him about the claim that the staff's taxes were used to run the club. "That's the misreporting of it. It is not all that. There is VAT as well involved in that. "I think what you can say is that we have had the same staff since day one at Residence. It has been taken out of context. The facts need to be looked at properly. That is a serious matter." Why did the judge, Mr Justice Peter Kelly, use the phrase "a form of thievery"? Is that out of context as well? "That's his opinion," Christian says. "Everyone is entitled to their opinion. At this moment we're just concentrating on our business and just trying to get through this period and trying to help the bank procure a purchaser for the business," he continues. "I think Residence will come through this and ultimately the plan would be that we're still involved deeply, still at the helm, because Residence has always been Simon and myself, and always will be. That's the plan. We are not going anywhere. But it is how we get to that endgame. "There are a lot more factors involved. The bank and the receiver and us have to work together to get that goal. "If you read the independent accountant's report, it would highlight a lot of things." Christian says the judge calling him and his brother "delinquent directors" is "his opinion. And his judgement was his discretion. We ticked all the boxes. But it was his discretion at the end of the day". When asked why he opened a private members club when the recession was firing up, Christian says: "It wasn't crazy, but the timing could have been better. "I can't pick and choose when I open a business, but at the end of the day we opened a business for long-term gain. We signed a 25-year lease. We have every intention of trying to see that out." But without the protection of the court -- withdrawn on Tuesday -- where does that leave them? Christian says that, at the moment, Residence is "protected by the bank who are in control". The bank, he adds, needs someone to run it, somebody to make sure that the business survives through this. "And at this moment they see the best people to do that as me and Simon. We are working with the bank on it." "At the end of day," he continues, "this is a lot to do with just cash-flow problems that every single business is going through in 2008, 2009 and 2010. "There is no difference between what we're doing. It is just seems like we are being used as the target. That's how and ever. That's how it is. I just want to keep my head down. Bang is gone. Bang is finished," he says, referring to their restaurant, Bang, on Merrion Row. "In the next couple of years maybe Bang will open in some other guise. Never say never. But at this moment in time we are concentrating on working with the bank to make sure Residence stays a viable business -- and it has been reported that it is by the independent accountant's report." The judge said he was "extremely sceptical" of those positive opinions expressed by the independent accountant. The prospects of survival of Residence, which has liabilities of more than €4m, run entirely counter to what was happening in the hospitality trade, the judge added. "It was discretion. He was sceptical of the report. Every business has liabilities. We are confident enough that we can get through. "At the moment, things are crazily tough. But we have a loyal membership base who have sent over 400 letters of support to the court and who want to see the business survive and Simon and I in Residence. "And I will continue to do that, until I'm not wanted. That's my life. That's my job." Christian denied that the fevered rumours, circulating for months, that Residence landlord Johnny Ronan was going to put his friend, former Renards boss Robbie Fox, in to run the club over their heads, hurt the business at such a fragile time with the banks. "Ireland is always full of rumours. At the end of the day they are just rumours and if people choose to believe them . . . The people involved in those rumours are friends of Simon and me, and have been supportive. Robbie is very supportive of us. I think it is rude to think that Robbie can't do his own thing." Christian says that Residence, in a nutshell, is a start-up business. "Give us a chance. We are a start-up, not a 20-year-old business. And yes, all start-up businesses make errors in how they do their business in the first five years, let alone the first year. "But the way the economy was has made it tough. That's it. People like to focus on certain aspects of the judgement and certain aspects of how we do business, but at the end of the day we had a turnover coming in the door and we used it as best as we thought." Christian says he didn't see this coming. It wasn't a case of people's spending "suddenly dropping off a cliff. It was always steady". There was no one point where he noticed things were beginning to unravel. "We were just unfortunate with timing . . . It was more to do with timing and cash flow and stuff like that." He smarts at the perception in the press that he and his brother were living like pampered princes with €250,000 sports cars. "We spent a lot of money on the club and we took a lot of money in, but anyone who knows me knows that I work five days and three nights a week. I haven't been on holiday. I haven't been anywhere in the last 18 months. For anyone to make any suggestion that I was living the high life is a bit far off the mark. "I can't be living the high life and be working eight shifts a week until 3am," he says, adding that "we are young guys in business. We open businesses for the long-term. We don't open a business for short -term gain. We put our necks out on the line to employ a lot of people. And we are where we are and we have to try and deal with it as professionally as we can." This ran contrary to what was coming out of the High Court last week where there were claims that Christian and Simon could possibly be prosecuted for reckless trading and made personally liable for the debts of Residence. Was he ever reckless in his business? "Ah, no. The answer is of course not. But that is a big word for people to say. You could call the banks reckless in their lending. You could call the Government reckless in their spending. But that is the way it went. That is the way life was. That's for people to determine. "We never tried to absolve ourselves from any blame. As directors, we are ultimately responsible for our actions. We are trying to fix some of the mistakes we made." Ah, mistakes. I like Christian Stokes. He has been candid and, I hope, honest throughout the hour I spend with him. I feel for him and the trouble his over-reaching ambition has landed him in because of the recession. But there are certain mistakes he has to accept blame for himself. In a recession, when people are breaking their backs to make ends meet, it is more than immoral to be taking employees' tax contributions and not passing them on to the Revenue, as Christian and his brother did at Residence. I ask him to try to explain this gross act of stupidity, if not criminality. He doesn't make a very good fist of it. "When you are in business and you have a weekly turnover, you juggle your money. You juggle your costs. We have a weekly turnover with no overdraft facility in the middle of the toughest recession in years. Whatever money came in, we used it as best we thought, as best we could. "We used it to pay everybody: to pay suppliers, to pay wages." But he was using people's tax. "What do you mean people's tax?" he exclaims as if I'd asked for Bono's mobile number. "We were using turnover money." It reflects just how desperate Christian and his brother were for Residence to keep trading. It appears to be a reality, however untenable, of the recession that it's a practice of some businesses struggling on the brink of oblivion, to use their staff's contributions (not out of choice "but for cashflow" says Christian) to keep the company alive. Christian says the staff "have all their entitlements". "The recession was crazily tough on us," he says. It is hardly an act of contrition but none of us was in their (Prada) shoes. "The thing is, Residence had a weekly turnover. We were making losses from the moment we opened. Every start-up business always makes losses. So whatever cash, whatever turnover we had per week, went to pay all our obligations as best we could. That is just it in a nutshell. That includes rent, suppliers, wages, revenue, other costs." But was it not his employees' contributions? "But if you had money coming in the door, okay? If you have turnover coming in the door, and you have a list, an amount of bills to pay, okay? You are going: 'Well, I have to pay this, this and this'. You divide it up as best you can and the Revenue is included in that. And if you don't have enough, you don't have enough. It is a simple thing. It is just the way it is. "It has been made out that me and Simon took the monies but . . . if you have a business, let's say hypothetically, that takes in 50 grand a week, and your costs are 70 grand a week; what are you going to do? Where are going to find that money? You can't not pay a supplier, because they won't supply you. You can't not pay your wages, because they won't work for you." But could he not pass on the tax of his employees that he had taken from them? "You pay it as best you can. The simple fact of the matter is all the money we had to play with was the turnover we had each week. It was not my fault that turnover wasn't as high as it was. So whatever money you have, you have to divide up to the best of your abilities in what you think (will keep the business going). "There is more to running a business than paying the Revenue. There are a lot of overheads. Rent. Wages. Suppliers. It is a juggling act that is made even more difficult in the middle of the worst recession in living memory." Christian said he has learnt big lessons from all this. The biggest of which, he adds, is getting the right advice. "We have got some great advice over the years and we have got some wrong advice, like everyone else. We have to learn from what happened. Maybe not to be as gung-ho at things as we used to, I suppose, but that comes with age. "Be careful of what you do. Maybe not take as many risks as we used to take. And concentrate on one thing. And not over-extending yourself, which we could have been guilty of. We're entrepreneurs at the end of the day. "We started a business -- Residence -- from scratch and with not much help, apart from our bank and the members. But we started from scratch and we created 55 jobs." As a kid, Christian didn't know what he wanted to do with his life. Going into the restaurant business only came about when his dad bought the Unicorn. "I just fell into it," he says. Before I had coffee with Christian, I bumped into his father, Jeff, next door in The Unicorn cafe. I couldn't help but noticing how worried he looked for his sons. "My dad is very upset for Simon and me," says Christian. "And so is my mum." What advice had they given him? "That Simon and I will come through this. To be strong. I have no choice. I am Irish and I believe in what Ireland is and Dublin and business. "I am young enough to move away if things aren't working out for me here, but I would never even dream about doing that. Ireland is going through a very, very, very tough time. Everybody is." Sunday Independent 
