business
{ Sean Gallagher 
    June 21 2014 12:05 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/how-a-father-and-daughter-have-the-alterations-business-sewn-up-30373397.html }
MANY successful businesses start out as simple ideas based on everyday needs. This week's story is a powerful example of how one father and daughter duo, Don and Caroline Wallace, through their company, The Zip Yard, have transformed a traditional cottage industry into a thriving professional retail business. Together, they have successfully grown the business to become a multimillion-euro franchise.  Walking into The Zip Yard shop on Thomas Street in Limerick, you are immediately struck by how busy it is. It's first thing Monday when I arrive and yet there is a steady stream of customers, mostly women, popping in to drop off items of clothes which they want altered, restyled or remodelled. What also strikes me is how modern and bright the shop is and how it looks more like a retail space rather than a typical alterations business. To the side of the shop, there are eight women, all in Zip Yard branded uniforms, busy at their workstations. Some are sitting, head down, stitching away intensely, on high-speed sewing machines. Others are carefully pinning and sizing dresses on free-standing mannequins while one woman, using a large industrial iron, is busy putting the finishing touches to her work. "It's different than I had expected," I confess to Don. "Traditionally, this type of work was carried out in peoples' homes or in a small, out-of-the-way location, on a back street, where conditions were often cramped and where the changing area typically consisted of a makeshift pull-across curtain," explains Don. "Often too, there was only one person in the business and so if she was busy you could expect to wait 10 or 15 minutes to even get served," adds Caroline. Where did they first come up with the idea? "At the time we were running another franchise business called Recognition Express, specialising in making corporate name badges and branded promotional products mostly for the retail and hospitality sectors," explains Don. "However, because many of our customers' businesses were badly affected by the downturn, our turnover had literally collapsed," he adds. Revenues fell from €5m at their height to less than €1m in 2009 and Don was forced to lay off many of his 35 staff. Although, the business ultimately survived and continues to trade profitably today, Don and Caroline realised that they needed to find another source of income to bolster their now much reduced revenue. They began travelling the country, desperately looking to identify their next big idea. Having almost given up hope, it was while they were on a family break in Belfast that they came across it. "We were out for a walk around the Harland and Wolff shipyard area of the city, when Don spotted a small alterations business called The Zip Yard," explains Caroline excitedly. "His mind quickly began racing and, with his knowledge of franchising, he began to come up with all sorts of ideas as to how the business could be developed into a franchise operation," she adds. The pair quickly got to work. They met the owners of the shop and as luck would have it, they too were keen to expand their business. With Don's guidance and expertise, they set about building a franchise model complete with operating manuals and legal contracts for potential franchisees. As part of their deal with the original founders, Don and Caroline took over the licence for the franchise for the Republic of Ireland and now, five years on, they have grown that business to 25 stores in Ireland. In addition, they have assisted the founders to develop a further 10 shops in Northern Ireland and 20 more in the UK. And they have also developed the business even further by expanding beyond basic alterations to include other services such as restyling and remodelling as well as dry cleaning, bridal alterations, debs dresses, zip replacements and even the repair of motorbike leathers. More recently, they teamed up with Julie Cobbe of Stylefish, who has trained their staff to offer styling advice to customers on their body shape and the type of clothes that best suits them. They are also noticing a definite increase in the number of women who are buying their clothes online and are then requiring a reliable place to have these adjusted to fit. More recently too, they noticed an increase in the number of women visiting their shops who have joined gyms or who have taken part in weight-loss programmes and now require to have their clothes adjusted. "Speed of turnaround has become a key differentiator for our business with most jobs being turned around in 48 hours and we also introduced a one-hour express service for those who need something in a hurry," explains Don. Interesting too is how they use text messages to let customers know their garments are ready for collection. Don grew up in Limerick city. After school, he headed to the UK where he worked as a clerk and later with Clarks Shoes as a manager of one of the company's London stores. After three years, he returned home where he worked as manager and buyer with Central Shoe Stores in Cork city. He was then only 23. In 1974, Don moved to join the Smurfit Group, taking over responsibility for establishing the company's original waste paper plants. However, Don's desire to start his own business remained strong throughout and having tried a number of ventures with varying degrees of success, his lucky break eventually came when he discovered franchising. "I discovered that about 60 per cent of franchises survive past the first five years whereas that figure was as low as 10 per cent in the case of ordinary start-ups," explains Don. "After having a number of false starts, I wanted to find a business that was already tried and tested and which offered a higher chance of success," he explains. That was when he took on the master franchise for Ireland for Recognition Express. His daughter, Caroline, first began working in that business on a part-time basis when she was as 11 or 12. After completing a degree in marketing in the University of Limerick, she later joined her father full-time in the business. "We work well together. Don looks after identifying new franchisees and sorting out suitable premises and all the legal contacts while my job is to help each new franchisee get set up," explains Caroline. "I effectively move in with them for the first few weeks helping them source the right staff, put in place the correct systems and make sure they understand the importance of their cash flows," she adds. What were the biggest challenges they faced in turning the small alterations business in Belfast into a franchise? I enquire. "Moving the business from a back-street to a high-street operation was a major challenge," explains Don. "It meant finding a premises for each shop which had a ground floor presence that was both bright and airy, had access to good footfall and yet was still affordable. Finding the right franchisees was also a challenge in the beginning until we had proved the concept," he adds. What does he look for in an ideal franchisee? "They are usually female, in their 30s or 40s, are of cheerful disposition, like dealing with people and have a good work ethic and the determination to succeed just like any entrepreneur. While we give them the model and ongoing support, they are, after all, ultimately running their own business," he explains. "Contrary to what many people might imagine, it is not a prerequisite to be able to sew in order to become a franchise owner," explains Caroline. What is a prerequisite though is the franchise fee of around €60,000. For this, however, the franchisee effectively gets a turnkey franchise business. "It usually suits a person who has savings or who may have recently been made redundant. But we work with banks in order to provide up to 50 per cent of these costs to potential franchisees," explains Don. What about future plans? I enquire. "We plan to grow the business to over 40 shops and already see opportunities in towns such as Kilkenny, Dundalk, Wexford, Monaghan and Castlebar as well on the northside, Tallaght, Dundrum and Henry Street areas of Dublin. We are also considering introducing kiosks or drop-off points in some smaller towns," explains Don. "And in addition, we are exploring the possibility of launching into the United Arab Emirates and the United States," he adds. As I leave Don and Caroline, I cannot but be touched as I think about how wonderful it is to see a father and daughter work so closely together. She is brimming with energy and dynamism while he, with his wisdom and experience, falls comfortably into the role of coach and mentor. Together, they possess a strong determination to succeed and an even stronger commitment to quality and customer service. Their story is one of how preparation meets opportunity and how, with vision, hard work and continuous development, you can turn, what might look to others like a simple idea, into a thriving business. Sunday Indo Business 
