business
{ Eoin MacNeill 
    May 24 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/business-of-sport-good-management-key-to-profits-and-trophies-25986620.html }
WHEN people say that sport is now big business they are usually trying to make the point that there is a lot of money involved in sport these days. That is undoubtedly true for professional sport and even for some amateur or participation sports. However, to really try and get some understanding of the business of sport you need to look behind the simple generalisation. Sport, particularly professional sport, may have many of the characteristics of a business but it is certainly not just a business. Some might argue that in many ways sport is not business at all, big or otherwise. This stems from the fact that sport businesses, even the biggest and most professionally organised ones, tend to differ fundamentally from 'ordinary' businesses. In an 'ordinary' business, the primary role and purpose of the activity is profit. The success or otherwise of the business is determined by its financial performance and relatively few people outside the business community pay much attention to it. For most sports businesses, however, the position is reversed and the role of profit is to facilitate the activity. Fans are much more than just customers, the level of connectedness and emotional stake of the fan and wider public is of a different character to an 'ordinary' business. The recent furore over the takeover of Manchester United illustrates this point. The taking private of a relatively small plc would not usually interest or excite many people. Yet the Manchester United story has dominated the front pages, the back pages and a fair few pages in between. Manchester United is a plc, but not just a plc. It is one of the best known sports clubs in the world and beloved to its fans who, whether shareholders or not, consider the club to be 'theirs'. Closer to home, arguably Ireland's oldest and best known soccer club, Shamrock Rovers has been in the headlines as a result of going into examinership. Again the attention received and the emotions stirred have little to do with Shamrock Rovers as a business because Shamrock Rovers is not just a business. Sport tends to confound attempts to analyse it or compartmentalise it purely on the basis of existing financial or legal models. Sport fans care little for financial performance except insofar as it facilitates sporting performance. For the die-hard fan there is no choice to be made between a clean sweep of silverware or a year of record profit. This clouding of usual business priorities is often shared by the 'hard-nosed businessmen' who own or run sports teams that may not be as profitable as they should or spend unviable amounts of money in pursuit of sporting success. One business principle that is true for all sports of all types and at all levels, whether professional or not, is that it is absolutely essential that they are well run if the sport or game itself is to prosper. Proper management and administration is essential at all levels for sport to thrive. This in turn requires an adequate pool of qualified and experienced personnel to manage sports businesses in what is an increasingly complex business, legal, commercial and regulatory environment. The scale of expertise required may vary but the principle does not. Business and organisation does not get in the way of sport - when done well it facilitates it and helps it flourish. Roy Keane knows well that the "prawn sandwich" brigade contributes significantly to the success the modern sportsperson can achieve. It is, of course, important to keep some balance between commercial and sporting considerations. When this is done everyone wins. Neglect the business aspects of an organisation and the sport will suffer. You do not build wonderful stadia like Croke Park through passion and commitment alone. You do not put your national team into the top tier of World competition without a strong organisational structure. The same applies to a newly-laid all-weather pitch with floodlights or new changing facilities or your local club. These things take organisation, business acumen and structure to deliver. In Ireland we are in the relatively early days of a sports 'industry'. The exact scope of the sector needs to be further defined and there is limited financial and other data available. It is a very broad and changing canvas. The traditional sports have grown and been joined by a plethora of new sports particularly individual adventure sports. The leisure sector has grown enormously and there is a greatly increased focus on health and fitness which has seen the emergence of a whole new business sector driven by business people rather than sports people. There are many business sectors which depend on sport for their existence whether through direct supply of goods and services or indirect benefit such as tourism and hospitality. There are also many businesses who use sport as a vehicle to promote their business through advertising, sponsorship or other association. Whether you view sport from a purely sporting perspective or from a more business viewpoint, this is a very exciting time for sports in Ireland. The Business of Sport Conference, now in it's second year, brings together leading executives from the sports sector to provide their insight, experience and expertise on current issues and future trends. It also provides an opportunity for people involved in sport at all different levels to come together to share views and experiences. This year's conference is focusing on the finance and administration of sport and also looks at the role of sponsorship in sport. Leading speakers will include John Delaney (FAI), Philip Browne, (IRFU), Jonathan Hall (Heineken) and Derek McGrath (ERC). There will also be a session on competitiveness in sport featuring sports psychologist Dr Aidan Moran, Armagh footballer Enda McEvoy and athlete James Nolan. * The Business of Sport 2005 Conference takes place in the O'Reilly Hall, UCD on Friday next, May 27. 
