business
{  
    March 12 2016 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/the-ladies-get-down-to-business-34526211.html }
A dynamic women in business networking event hosted by the Local Enterprise Office Cork North & West on Tuesday featured guest speaker Maria Kelly, Director of iBusiness Warriors. Kelly, a business growth advisor to SMEs and Start-ups gave a presentation on 'Developing a Business Strategy for Growth' followed with a panel discussion which included speakers from local businesses - Maura Hunter and Siobhan Steele. While speaking about business growth and the massive impact that a business strategy can have on a business, Maria invited the ladies to choose a big aspiration for their business and to be clear about what growth and success meant to them. She covered key aspects of business management and development and highlighted the importance of the customer in developing a business strategy.  She also reminded attendees not to forget the importance and of staff and stakeholder inclusion when formulating a clear mission statement and vision for the business.  The guest speaker provided practical advice and tips on how to develop an effective strategy to grow a business.   "My objective here tonight is to get everyone in this room thinking about their business in a different way, with actions that they can immediately apply to their own business," said Maria Kelly.  She continued to speak about benefits for women in business and where to identify new ideas. "Make your strategy a living document that everyone is involved in and is a consistent part of your business," Maria said. The presentation was followed by 'round table' discussion and then a panel discussion with two successful local women in business who were supported by LEO Cork North & West - Maura Hunter from MH Designs LTD and Siobhan Steele from Siobhain Steele Ceramics. Both women shared their experiences as businesswomen and discussed the challenges impacting on their business growth as well as business opportunities and the importance of developing a strategy in business. The event was organized by The Local Enterprise Office Cork North and West. The Women in Business Networks is part of a platform for women in business to create and establish new and existing contacts and widen networking opportunities to benefit their business. The networking event is part of a series of supports for women in business or women who want to start their own business which are on offer from the LEO Cork North and West. "The Women in Business Network has really taken off in North Cork and the great feedback we got here tonight we can turn around into practical support for local business women," said Joan Kelleher of the Leo Cork North & West. "I would like to see even more local business women joining the network as we are here to help you start and grow your business," added Joan. Corkman 
