business
{ Sean Gallagher 
    May 19 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/spotting-the-opportunity-made-mary-a-high-flyer-29277936.html }
MARY McKenna is founder and CEO of Tour America. The business, set up in 1995, has grown to become Ireland's leading specialist holiday company, focusing on holidays to North America as well as offering worldwide cruises. Headquartered in Middle Abbey Street in Dublin city centre, and with offices on Patrick Street in Cork city, the company employs 50 staff. This year the company's annual turnover will reach more than €20m. Like most entrepreneurs, however, Mary's story has not been plain sailing. She has experienced challenges and setbacks. And, like most entrepreneurs, she has focused on turning these challenges into opportunities, using the road blocks she encountered as chances to change direction. As I arrive to meet Mary in her Dublin office, the atmosphere is lively and cheerful as staff engage eagerly with streams of individuals and couples, excitedly booking their next dream holiday. Mary tells me she loves what she does, and loves the people she works with. As she introduces me to the team, it's  easy to see that there is a real sense of camaraderie and mutual respect between Mary and her staff. How did she first get involved in the travel business, I ask. "It all started when I was five. My father, Frank McKenna, and his brother Andy were in the travel business. In fact, my father was the first person to organise trips for soccer fans to such places as Manchester and Liverpool," she tells me proudly. Most entrepreneurs will tell you that when they were younger, they had a role model whom they looked up to and who inspired them. For Mary, that role model was her dad. From the age of five, Mary helped out in her father's business, firstly by putting his company's stickers on travel brochures. As she got older, she spent Saturdays working in the business. "He instilled in me a  strong sense of self-belief which has been central to my own success in business." She was only 23 when she got a job with a new airline  called Club Air. As duty manager, she had responsibility for all ground operations. "If a plane failed to turn up, then it was my job to charter a new one," she says. It was a lot of responsibility at such a young age, but the experience taught her how to make tough decisions. "It also gave me an even greater passion for the travel business," Mary adds. Later she moved to Club Travel and, following her father's death, she joined her uncle Andy's company, Atlas Travel, which specialised in offering holidays to the USA.  When Atlas was sold in 1995, she decided to use the knowledge and contacts she had developed in the industry and start out on her own. And so Tour America was born. "I had no money," Mary admits. "So I started the business in my own sitting room." Her former boss from Club Travel, Liam Lonergan, had such faith in her ability that he invested in the business, becoming a silent business partner. With the investment, she was able to get a proper office, albeit a small one, in Eden Quay, in Dublin's city centre. With three staff, she was now on her way. The competition didn't take her seriously at first. However, working 80 hours over seven days a week, her efforts began to pay off. While her friends advised her not to expect to make a profit until year three, Mary had no intention of waiting that long. In its first year, the company turned over £3m in revenue and made £69,000 profit. At night, she went to college, studying accountancy and business in UCD. She read books on business, economics and on emotional intelligence.  She knew that she, herself, would first have to develop before she could really expect to be able to grow and develop the company. "While I always trusted my gut and intuition, I felt it was important to learn as much as I could about the structure and strategies involved in building a successful business," Mary explains. Her participation in the Leadership for Growth programme run by IMD in Switzerland, Europe's foremost business school, and supported by Enterprise Ireland, really helped her understand the difference between leadership and management. "Management is about doing things right," she tells me, "but leadership is about doing the right things. "By becoming more strategic and prioritising work, I began to select only five key objectives at any one time and focus the entire company on achieving these. That has had the most profound effect on the business." However, the journey for Mary has not been without its trials and challenges, both professionally and personally. In 2004, she was run down by a jeep as she left her office.  For a period her injuries were life-threatening. Her accident caused her to re-evaluate her life. "Nowadays, I don't sweat the small stuff," she tells me with a smile. "I cycle to work every day now," she says, pointing to the high-viz jacket hanging on her office door. She has also run a number of marathons for charity. It's a testimony to her strong character and her sense of determination. Mary has also dealt with many changes in the business. The tragedy of September 11, 2001, was not just a tragedy  for the people of America, it was a commercial tragedy  for businesses like Mary's which were operating in the travel industry. "For up to four weeks after the attacks, business fell off  a cliff," explains Mary. "We really thought the company was gone." In order to survive, she was forced to let go 10 staff out of the 35 she had at the time. "It was the hardest thing I ever had to do," she tells me. "I had to dig very deep personally to let good people go. It was then that I really understood just how hard being an entrepreneur can sometimes be." With fewer people travelling by plane in the aftermath of the 9/11 tragedy, Mary spotted an opportunity to set up a separate business specialising in cruise holidays. She immediately rehired the 10 people she had earlier laid off.  Today, that business has grown to become the number one company in cruises in both Ireland and Northern Ireland and generates annual revenues of more than €6m. She remembers too, when the ash cloud catastrophe struck the airline business. "No one travelled at the time.  In fact people even stopped making bookings altogether," Mary explains. To make matters worse, some of her customers were stranded in the US and it cost the company more than a half a million euro to ensure that they were looked after. Similarly in January 2012, when the Costa Concordia cruise liner sank, the company lost more than €1m in potential sales revenue as a result. How has the downturn in the economy affected the business, I ask. "People naturally have less disposable income and so it's all about how you can add value for the customer," Mary insists. In order to remain competitive, the company now contracts hotels directly and creates exclusive offers for customers, not found elsewhere. It is part of the company's emphasis on innovation and customer service. Mary recognises that her staff are crucial to her success and is incredibly committed to staff training and development. Training takes place every Wednesday morning and guest speakers are regularly invited to present on topics of interest. In order to ensure that there is co-ordination and efficiency within the business, all staff get together in small teams for five minutes every morning before work begins, in what Mary calls "buzz meetings". Here, they review anything of note that happened the day before and use the opportunity to plan for the day ahead. The company has won many awards, including the 2013 Gold Award for the Best Managed Company from Deloitte; the recent Travel Agent of the Year Award, as voted for by the public; and the award for best use of Social Media in the Travel Industry. Combining traditional marketing and social media has become an important element in growing the business. With repeat customers making up 42 per cent of her business, Mary clearly understands the old business maxim "that it is cheaper and easier to keep a customer than it is to find a new one". What's next for the business, I ask. "We are definitely focused on growing the business," Mary tells me. With about 20 per cent of business currently originating online, Mary recently launched a UK website to target business there. She even tells me she has her sights set on the possibility of opening an office in Australia. From having spent the day with Mary, one thing is very clear: Mary McKenna is not sitting still. She possesses a strong work ethic, having learned the value of hard work at an early age. She exudes a passion for life, and for business in particular. She is constantly on the lookout for opportunities even though some of these may first present themselves camouflaged as challenges. She has demonstrated a commitment to life-long learning and is equally committed to the training and development of her staff. She has learned, too, the importance of focus and prioritisation of key objectives as a way of driving success. Above all, her experiences have taught her the importance of having fun and enjoying what she does. And, just like her father, she has now become a great role model for others to emulate. Irish Independent 
