business
{  
    September 30 2014 08:41 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/one-big-week-to-inspire-new-entrepreneurs-30626180.html }
THIS week sees the fifth annual Fingal Enterprise week with a huge array of event laid on to support and encourage new and small businesses in Fingal amid a growing air of optimism for the future. It is ironic that Fingal Enterprise Week has taken place each year in the teeth of a recession, but the head of the Fingal Local Enterprise Office (LEO), Oisín Geoghegan, senses the business sector in the county is now looking for new opportunities and not just seeking to survive. Oisín told the Fingal Independent: 'There certainly a lot more optimism around - last year wasn't bad either but this year there really is a noticeable change in the atmosphere. 'There has been a lot of negativity around us over the last few years but I think, in Enterprise Week, we've always managed to create a positive and creative atmosphere and I think that's a really important thing. 'It does really lift businesses and you can see it at many of the events. There is an energy and dynamism at many of these events that is really terrific for encouraging and supporting enterprise.' Commenting on the changing atmosphere in the local business community, he said: 'We are finding that people are taking risks now that they would have been very reluctant to take three or four years ago. 'People are recruiting now and we are finding that businesses are making the plunge and investing in capital and investing in their businesses again rather than downsizing and rationalising.' With the dissolution of the County Enterprise Board which previously ran the week, the branding and look of Fingal Enterprise Week has changed to reflect that the Local Enterprise Office is now running the show, but the change has been more than cosmetic, according to the head of the Fingal LEO. Oisín said: 'With the establishment of the LEO, it gave us an opportunity to rethink the whole thing so we have changed the whole look and feel to the week, hopefully for the better. 'Very importantly as well, the content of the week has changed - the meat in the sandwich, if you like. That's the most important thing for the businesses involved. 'We have selected about 16 different events and they were very carefully selected because we wanted to make sure we had something for all the various constituencies that are interested in Enterprise Week. 'We have members of the public who are maybe thinking of starting a business, what we would call latent entrepreneurs. What we want to do is try to encourage those individuals to explore that a little bit further and provide them with an opportunity and a forum to do that. 'We would also have people who are in the early stages of, or started the process of setting up a business. For those individuals there are a number of programmes in the week and things they will be particularly interested in. 'Then, in addition we would have existing businesses and managers of small businesses already operating in Fingal who may be doing very, very well in some cases and we want to see what further opportunities there are for them. 'Or indeed, they may be struggling and want advice on how to market their business better or how to use tools like social media or new technology to help them to have a better prospect of being more successful.' This year, the week has a major emphasis on new technology and looking out for the 'next big thing' that will affect how businesses will be run in the future. Oisín explained: 'A key thing in the week is that everyone wants to know what is the next big thing in technology and where new technologies are going. 'There is a massive advancement in the use of technology in businesses in all sorts of ways. So we have included a really heavy focus on things like social media and deliberately, we have chosen our first event to be about future trends in technology.' Fingal's successful food sector will also feature heavily in the schedule and there is even a space for the entrepreneurs of tomorrow with a special event for school children aimed at sixth class primary school pupils and first year secondary school students. Oisín said: 'I remember doing something in school - it was sort of a mini-company project and that really sparked something in me and I remember it to this day. 'Those early influences are really important so we wanted to incorporate something around that in the week and I think it's going to be great - we've got students from all over Fingal coming to it.' Recognising the particular problems non-Irish nationals have in setting up a business here, Fingal Enterprise Week also has an event aimed at supporting this group of potential entrepreneurs. Oisín explained: 'There are a lot of non-Irish people living and working in Fingal and a lot of them want to start up their own business. 'We get a lot of them coming into us all the time and they face challenges that are different to what Irish people face. At least if you are born here, you know the culture and the institutions but a lot of what Irish people would take for granted is completely alien to someone from Africa who is living here or an Eastern European or an American. 'There are cultural, political and social difficulties that they face so we are trying to help them and give them a leg up and help them understand the key things they need to know to set up a business in Ireland.' On the Monday following each annual Fingal Enterprise Week, the phones of Oisín and his team are hopping and new businesses are getting off the ground, and that is what the week is all about. This year will also see the return of the Fingal Enterprise Awards and also a new event, aimed at finding young Fingal entrepreneurs to represent the region in a new national competition. Encouraging people to get involved, Oisín said: A lot of what we are doing this week will be inspirational and will provide a lot of exciting opportunities for small businesses in Fingal.' In the middle of Fingal Enterprise Week is a day devoted to start-ups and aimed at encouraging new entrepreneurs to take the plunge and create a buisness. Oisín explained: 'We are having a special day for start-ups in the middle of the week called 'Fingal Start-up Day'. That will be going on for a full day in the Crowne Plaza in Santry and it's going to be a really exciting, energetic and dynamic day for people who are starting up in business. It will be very intensive and I think it's going to be absolutely fantastic. The event takes place all day on Wednesday, October 8. Oisín Geoghan headed up the Fingal Enterprise Board before it was dissolved in April to be replaced by the Fingal LEO and while he had concerns about the change when he spoke to the Fingal Independent last year, he is now happy in his new role at the head of the local LEO. Oisin told the Fingal Independent: 'Things took a while and it became more clear as time went on what direction we were going. We changed over on April 15, the Enterprise Board was dissolved on the 14th. 'I think the concerns I expressed previously, I would stand over them as legitimate concerns at the time around our ability to be agile and our ability to serve our clients and be focussed on their business needs and deliver a professional service at the level required by businesses. 'But in fairness, thankfully we have managed to maintain those key attributes of being agile and business focused and being results orientated rather than process orientated.' The head of the Fingal LEO said: 'I'm actually very pleased how it has worked out. We have a new facility here in County Hall and we have had fantastic co-operation from Fingal County Council. 'I think we have been really fortunate because I don't think it has worked out so well in other parts of the country. But in Fingal, we have had great support and the facilities we have here are top class. 'We are a unit now that I think is operating very, very effectively and we are able to deliver a wide range of programmes in the right way.' Explaining the role of the Fingal LEO, he said: 'Our role is to support and assist new businesses and small businesses. 'We provide a vast range of services to try to help small businesses get off the ground and to try to encourage people who have business idea to give them a platform to bring that idea to fruition.' Fingal Enterprise Week is the biggest public event now under the control of the LEO and this year's event will serve as an introduction to the new service for new and potential Fingal entrepreneurs. Oisín heads a hard-working team at LEO which works closely with the council's economic development unit to support local business. Fingal Independent 
