business
{ JOHN FITZGERALD, B.COMM, A.C.A., A.I.T.I. 
    May 04 2012 09:18 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/lifestyle/now-could-be-the-right-time-to-invest-in-your-own-business-27419641.html }
WITH low property prices and the availability of many government incentives, now may be the right time to take the plunge and invest in your own business. This may provide an alternative source of income for you or offer you a more satisfying way of life. However, before you proceed, the following should be seen as essential undertakings. Business Plan: It goes without saying that the main purpose of a business is to make money. Therefore, in assessing your business proposal and developing your business plan, you should undertake research to determine what sales you are likely to achieve, determine all your costs, establish the level of funding and type of funding required and combine all of these in a financial projection. The financial projection will primarily help determine if the business is viable and would be a very shrewd initial investment. It can also form the basis for seeking funds; acts as a good budget if proceeding with the proposal and can also act as a guideline to help you monitor the ongoing performance of your business. Undertake Due Diligence: Financial Due Diligence is a process of investigating analysing and validating the financial and commercial aspects of a business. This is very important when considering buying an existing business as it helps ensure everything is as it appears and that there are no hidden or potential liabilities. It essentially ensures that you know what you are buying into. Structure of business: There are a number of structures to consider when carrying on business. These broadly include a sole trade, partnership or a limited company. There are advantages associated with each, such as limited liability and low tax rates for a company. However, a sole trade may be more appropriate for smaller, less profitable start up businesses. Each structure should be given due consideration before deciding which is most suitable. Tax and other compliance requirements: When starting out in business, taxes can be a relatively significant cost. All taxes should be considered when assessing the viability of the company i.e. VAT, PAYE/PRSI, RCT, Corporation tax etc. In addition, the business has to register for tax and ensure the timely submission of returns to avoid potential interest and penalties. There are also other compliance issues. If deciding to operate through a company, it will firstly have to be incorporated and ongoing company secretarial requirements will have to be satisfied. Tax Relief and incentives for start up businesses: There are quite a number of tax reliefs available for start up businesses. One of the most prominent recent reliefs is the three-year corporation tax exemption for new start up companies. Another relief, which is available, is seed capital relief. This allows tax refunds on PAYE tax paid by employees for the six years prior to leaving their employment and setting up a business. However, it is limited to certain types of businesses. When assessing your business viability, there are also many tax incentives which your businesses may be able to avail of, such as those for creating employment, R&D tax credits, intellectual property relief and so on. Again, there are conditions associated with each of these. Outside of tax incentives, financial assistance and other expertise can be obtained from Social Welfare, Kerry County Enterprise Board and the IDA to name but a few. Preparation of accounts: Understandably, when starting a business, the business owner is often weighed down with the day-today working of the business. However, they should also ensure that the business is trading successfully and take a step back to look at the bigger picture. The best way to do this is by preparing accounts. These can be easily prepared monthly, quarterly or over whatever period the business owner requires. Again, this is a safeguard to ensure they are on the right track and can help with the strategic management and decision making of the business to ensure a successful and sustainable future. Peevers Slye Cotter provides services and advice to all sized businesses and prospective businesses in the aforementioned areas. 
