business
{ John Mulligan 
    December 12 2019 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/jobs/article38776648.ece }
Pat McCann - like an ambitious guest at the breakfast buffet in one of his chain's hotels - has piled a fresh role on his already heaving plate. As the new president of the Irish Business and Employers Confederation (Ibec), the vocal lobby group for companies across the country, he will be front and centre as the UK finally gets around to leaving the European Union next month. But the Sligoman (68) and CEO of Ireland's largest hotel group, stock market-listed Dalata, has more to contend with than just Brexit. The unique combination of a rapidly growing economy facing into the potentially seismic UK exit from the EU means that a smorgasbord of issues are hot topics. Taxes (corporate and personal), climate, wages and housing are just a few of them. McCann, a self-confessed workaholic, has always appeared to revel in the cut and thrust of the media spotlight - even when times were bad.  His natural tendency to frankness is helped by the freedom that comes from being a businessman in his own right -having founded the plc he leads - rather than a business manager.  If business is not quite a dirty word, he's taken up the Ibec role at a time when from a global perspective, there's much more intense focus on capitalism as a whole, and on what's seen as a widening gulf between the haves and have-nots. Even the minimum wage can be seen here as a micro-economic feature of a bigger picture. What is a living wage, when housing, rent and childcare prices are sky-high, public transport can be poor, and the cost of so many everyday essentials may make your eyes water? A report from the Low Pay Commission (which advises the Government) earlier this year showed that the minimum hourly wage had risen 13.3pc since 2015.  Ibec pointed out that the increase was faster than inflation and overall wage growth, and it was clear the body was unhappy that Ireland had the second-highest such wage in the EU after Luxembourg. In October, the Government "deferred" a 30 cent increase to the minimum wage that would have raised the figure to €10.10 per hour for adults. It cited Brexit uncertainty for the decision.  Some firms have decided to pay what they call a living wage, an amount determined by the Living Wage Technical Group as being the sum considered necessary to have a socially acceptable minimum standard of living. It's currently €12.30 an hour, and is used as a benchmark by some employers, such as retailer Lidl. McCann says he hasn't given the living wage issue a significant amount of thought. But he warns - as most employers with an eye to their cost base probably would - that raising it too quickly could see firms suffer. "There's always a balance in life about how you manage these things," he says. "SMEs and startups are more challenged by the minimum wage or the living wage.  "We need to be very careful about moving too quickly on this, because what you'll do then is start to stymie investment. I don't know of a business who wouldn't love to pay their employees more, but it's a question of affordability." He likewise points out that increasing statutory paternity leave is a headache for small companies, where he insists that "one or two people out of the system can be quite devastating for them". "Sometimes people look at profit and think it's a dirty word, and that all the business owners are running off with all the money, but the truth is far from that," McCann insists. "When you look at the vast majority of businesses, what do they do with those profits?  "The vast bulk of them are reinvesting those profits back into the business. And if they don't do that, they'll no longer be in business. That's the reality of it." McCann says that Dalata, which controls roughly a quarter of the 21,000 or so hotel rooms in Dublin and has about 1,800 rooms elsewhere in Ireland, has a share scheme for all its staff, which he adds is starting to deliver for employees. Just recently, he says that the people who enrolled in the first scheme after Dalata went public in 2014 were starting to get their shares. The group employs about 5,000 full and part-time workers. He also believes that any yearning for a post-capitalistic society should be tempered with (at least, the current) reality. "I always look at that as being dangerous in many ways," says McCann, as he chats in the executive lounge of Dalata's Clayton Hotel on Burlington Road (a property operated by Dalata, but owned since 2016 by Germany's DekaBank). "I sometimes think businesses get painted into a corner. It's this big, evil thing over there. But in reality, without it, you've nothing," he points out. He adds that some people "don't quite understand" how interwoven and dependent their own lives, jobs and well-being often are on the capitalist society they might rail against.  "There's this issue where maybe as businesses we're not as good at telling the story about what we're doing with the money that we make," he says. (Dalata made an €87.3m pre-tax profit last year on revenue of €393.7m.) "The way the world is now, everything is being scrutinised in a way that was never done before, and there's no harm in that," he adds. "But I think what businesses have to do is rise to the occasion and explain what they're doing with their profits." He admits that it takes many businesses time to "catch up" with issues such as the green agenda, and a push by activists for carbon-neutrality in some countries, for instance. "That doesn't mean to say that they're not doing lots of good things," McCann insists. "But I think they're not talking about the good things that they do and about all of the things they're trying to do to make the world a better place.  "There's a suspicion that's not what business is about at all, but in fact, in the vast majority of cases, that's what it is: it's about trying to make the world a better place for the citizens of the world." And where does Ireland's 12.5pc corporate tax rate fit into all this?  The economy is hugely - overly, some warn - dependent on billions of euro of taxes paid by a relatively small number of multinationals. When the global economy does eventually come off the boil again, those receipts could very suddenly be badly squeezed.  While the Government defends the rate as being intrinsic to Ireland's ability to sustain and attract an economic base as a small, open economy, it's a tool eyed enviously from elsewhere.  Would adding, say, even a percentage point to that rate make sense to help lower personal tax rates, or filter more money to the disadvantaged? "Absolutely not," says McCann, twice. "When you look at our corporate tax rate, it's quite phenomenal what's going on in that space and the level of take that we have." The State's coffers burst with a record €6.9bn in corporate tax receipts in October. "If there's anything sacrosanct in the Irish economy, it's our 12.5pc," McCann adds. He says that the growth in the number now employed in Ireland "has lifted the standards of living for hundreds of thousands of people". "When people talk about business and 'what has it ever done for me', let's be clear about it: it's done lots for lots of people.  "So, while we have challenges around housing, health and all of those things, without having businesses growing, we'll be able to afford far less." He says that soaring rents in Ireland haven't had any impact on Dalata's ability to hire staff, but that it remains a significant concern for the company.  Dublin was ranked recently by expats around the globe as the worst city in the world for housing affordability. "The other problem we have is how do we get developers to build houses," he says. "When you look at the economics of it, it is very hard to build houses economically today. If developers can't make a profit on it, it's much more challenging." So, are the modular apartments proposed by some developers a solution to the housing crisis?  Some of the so-called co-living plans include studios with communal kitchens that would be shared by 40 people. Beds fold up into walls to make space. It might sound a bit tough for anyone hoping to have any kind of reasonable personal space and private facilities. Still, they're a more common feature of other international cities, such as Berlin and Paris. "I think as with all of these things, it's a combination," says McCann when asked if they're a solution to the housing problem. "If you look at what goes on worldwide, it's a combination of many different things that allows people to get their own space. What people have to grow into is to continually upgrade as the world improves for them." For Ireland generally, McCann is keen as Ibec president to push home the message that our indigenous companies need to grow to keep pace with the inflow of foreign direct investment. "Tourism is probably one of the best indigenous businesses," he says. "If you look at what goes on in rural Ireland - in many towns such as Westport, Lahinch and Dungarvan - what they've managed to do with tourism is quite phenomenal.  "There's a great template there to bring employment into the regions that other businesses might struggle to do.  "We cannot lose sight of the fact that we need the economy to be growing for all areas of the country." For now, the immediate challenge remains Brexit.  McCann says the weakening economic situation in the UK hasn't yet impacted upon Dalata's hotel business there. "There's been no dilution of business," he says. "It's been very strong." Dalata operates 11 hotels in the UK and has its 12th under construction there. And while the impact of Brexit on Ireland will reverberate throughout businesses across the country, McCann says it's nearly impossible to prepare for something whose precise effects are, as of yet, unknown. "Business is remarkably resilient and adaptable," he says. "Once they know what they're facing, boy do they plan and get stuff in place pretty quickly. "If you look at Ireland as an economy, there are certainly sections that will be much harder hit; food and agri-business are probably the most vulnerable in a no-deal scenario. "For large swathes of business, which are essentially services businesses, there will probably be little or no impact.  "My worry about Brexit is that you could add to the issues in rural Ireland. If I look at it simply, urban areas will do well, but rural areas will suffer most.  "And that's the biggest challenge: how do we as Ireland Inc make sure that doesn't happen? It's what makes us what we are. Rural Ireland or regional Ireland - whatever you want to call it - is in our DNA and we must protect that. If we lose that, we lose our identity." Indo Business 
