business
{ Sharon  Lynch 
    June 05 2008 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/your-business-cash-flow-the-key-to-surviving-storm-26451701.html }
It's a case of survival of the fittest for many small businesses in these times of economic instability. And planning can be key to that survival. Small business organisation ISME believes the next few months will be "absolutely crucial" to the sustainability and development of the small and medium enterprise sector, with many challenges waiting to be overcome. The association claims the key issue for smaller businesses continues to be costs, and, in particular, labour costs. So, what measures can a small business take to help weather the storm in these uncertain times? Adrian Moynihan, business strategy manager at AIB, believes cash flow management will be "critical" over the coming year. "We would strongly advise businesses to keep an eye on their cash flow management over the next 12 to 18 months. Monitor "Firstly, a business must make sure it has a cash flow plan in place and that either the business owner or someone senior within the firm is monitoring it on a weekly or monthly basis. "It is important to have someone that goes to bed thinking about it. They should make sure that they get the money owed to them in on time. "ISME recently said that this is one of the biggest burdens on small businesses at the moment.'' Mr Moynihan says there are many products available out there that help ease cash flow pressures. "Overdraft is the obvious one but there are other products out there as well," according to Mr Moynihan. "For example, we have a product called Prompt Pay, which spreads the cost of a one-off, large annual cost over the course of the year. This can ease the cash flow burden on the business too." AIB recently said it expects to see a reduction in the number of new business formations this year, dropping back to 12,000 in 2008 from close to 18,000 in 2007, reflecting domestic and international economic conditions. However, with roughly 1,000 new businesses being added every month, the bank expects that there will be close to 270,000 businesses operating in Ireland by the end of 2008. Paul Fagan, managing director of business coaching firm ActionCOACH says not all businesses are affected by the current economic climate, but he believes sentiment has definitely changed. His biggest advice to any company that is facing challenges is to go and get a business coach. "You need to have someone that can come in independently with a fresh pair of eyes and look at your business. It is important not to leave it too late. Help "We work with our clients in a number of areas to improve their businesses and generally we can improve the businesses in this current environment. But one of the main reasons for business failures is that business owners don't go and seek help early enough. "There are loads of places to get help from -- a backer, business coach, ISME, the Small Firms Association -- which give advice and help," he says. However, Mr Fagan says it is the simple things such as good manners that can help keep a business afloat. "There are lots of reasons as to why a customer does not come back to a business, but the surprising thing is that the majority of people don't come back because of perceived indifference. "In a survey, we found that 68pc of customers don't come back to a business because they believe the business does not give a damn about them. Service "You could improve your business dramatically if you improved on customer service. We're all a bit more cost conscious and aware that things are changing, but when we do go out and spend our hard-earned cash we do expect a level of service.'' "If companies want to continue to survive they cannot provide the standard of customer service that they previously dished up to people. Even if you're more expensive, people will still come back to you if they know and like you," he said. 
