business
{  
    February 14 2010 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/weve-rescued-them-now-we-need-to-see-some-bang-for-our-buck-26632133.html }
FOUR of the companies in Galway businessman John Sweeney's Black Shore Group sought court protection last week. The court protection was granted because the judge believed that the businesses had a reasonable chance of survival. It seemed that Courtyard Marriott, one of the businesses central to the case, was "bucking the trend" when it came to the beleaguered hospitality industry. Failte Ireland seemed to think that the main reason the hotel was outperforming the industry was because of Mr Sweeney and his management team According to reports, "Mr Justice McGovern said he was satisfied an independent accountant had provided evidence to show the companies have a reasonable prospect of survival if certain specified conditions, including securing investment, were met. The court had heard six expressions of interest had been received from potential investors. The accountant's view was also supported by interim examiner Michael McAteer, the judge noted." So everyone involved seemed to agree that this business had a better chance of survival if it was left alive and in the hands of the people who were running it. Everyone, that is, except Anglo Irish Bank. Anglo Irish Bank has no faith in Mr Sweeney. The bank vigorously opposed the business being left in the hands of Mr Sweeney and his team and wished instead to appoint a receiver, to take the company out of the hands of the management team in which everyone has so much faith. Anglo Irish Bank says it will continue in its mission to put the companies into receivership as soon as it can. Anglo Irish Bank is owed €20m arising out of intercompany loans between three of the four companies in question. This case is an interesting vignette of where we are at right now. On one hand, it is perfectly normal stuff. A cash-strapped bank is trying to get back its €20m, and to do so it is trying to take control of a business that is in trouble, and the bank is entitled to want to step in and try and get back what it can of its money. This is against a background of banks all trying to get their balance sheets in order, to get their hands on what solid assets and reserves they can -- real assets, as against the bullshit "assets" they had, worthless creditors. But what makes the whole situation slightly surreal is that this is Anglo Irish Bank. This is a bank that was effectively operated as a property casino, that came crashing down horrendously, that was bailed out by us. Is it not a bit rich that Anglo is now acting as some kind of arbiter on who is fit to run a business, portraying itself as the responsible one, stepping in to express concern about a management team in which everyone else seems to have a reasonable amount of faith? Anglo, incredibly, is now the conservative Nervous Nelly of the corporate world. And Anglo, a business that had effectively gone to the wall until the State stepped in, a business that was not viable but which was kept alive in the public interest, is now vigorously trying to shut down businesses that do seem to have a hope of surviving. This vignette is being repeated all over the country. The banks that we bailed out, and that we continue to bail out, and into which we will soon be sinking much more money, have got sense. As debate raged all week about the lack of credit flow to small businesses, we increasingly heard people on the banking side talk about how small businesses are too risky, how banks will give the money if a business seems viable. It is funny for some people to have to listen to the banks talk down to them about things being too high risk. Certainly risk is inherent in business, and many small businesses are risky propositions. But are they really as risky as giving people hundreds of millions for bits of wasteland? It must be hard for small business people to get lectured about risk by the very people who bet the whole country on one single sector. It must be hard for people who are being creative and innovative and enterprising to have to be told they aren't a good business bet, by people who lashed out billions to guys who certainly weren't good bets and who didn't even have a big idea beyond flipping land and building apartments no-one wanted. Anglo, let's not forget, was also the bank that lent clients millions to bet on the stock market. It stopped short of giving people money to put on horses -- though the return might have been better if it had. Small business people have not been hugely vocal about all this because they fear alienating the only people who can save them right now: their very persecutors. But slowly, they are starting to come out of the woodwork. We saw the couple who were trying to open the bakery last week, the girl with the buttons business who was thought a good risk by the dragons on Dragons' Den but whom the bank didn't even trust with a bit of short-term cash flow. Last week, in this paper, we read an extraordinary, anonymous story from one business person about how the banks were treating business people. But ask any business person and you'll get the same story. Ask the scores of them who contacted this paper, since that article was published, to tell similar stories. Basic overdrafts for nuts and bolts viable businesses are now deemed too risky by the same banks that rode the Tiger. It seems that we continue to pay for the excesses of the banks in the boom. And now we hear that Nama will not get credit flowing either. While we are reassured that we still need Nama, and that while it won't get additional credit flowing it is a prerequisite for any credit flow at all, ordinary people, people who don't understand the ins and outs of economics or bank balance sheets, are starting to wonder just what it is we are getting out of all this. We were told that Nama was to bail out the economy, not the banks, and even those of us with misgivings about Nama took this at face value. And even if we accept that banks now need to consolidate their balance sheets, that they don't have money to loan like they used to, that they won't have access to cheap wholesale money forever and that lending needs to become a function of deposits again, or real assets, it's hard not to wonder. What exactly are the banks doing for us? They are putting up interest rates where they can, because apparently this is necessary for their profitability. They are closing down businesses where they can, too, wearing their new risk-averse hats. They are constraining small businesses -- the lifeblood of the economy and the engine for potential recovery, and they are culling jobs in their own operations. While there are good reasons for all of this at their end, the banks need to understand that the rest of us are starting to ask why. Why should we continue bailing out the banks if there is nothing in it for us? The Government and the banks need to figure out fast how to give the rest of us some motivation for bank bailouts. People will not continue to take all the pain but get no gain. In order for the people to continue supporting Nama and the future recapitalisation of banks, we need to see a reason to do it. And if the best-case scenario is that we bail out the banks but they are still not open for business, then people are likely to ask: why spend billions and increase taxes for years to come to have banks not open for businesses, when we could just as easily do nothing, save our money, and get the same result? The people need to see some bang for their buck. And this is not about a certain sector, about rich business owners moaning about banks. This is about all the people who work for all those small businesses. It's about wages that won't be paid, the tradesmen who won't be paid, the business relationships that will be destroyed due to lack of credit, when people in the real economy around the country stop paying each other. This is about a country without a functioning banking system. And a functioning banking system is the least of what they promised us when they asked us to put ourselves and the next generation in hock. Sunday Independent 
