business
{  
    August 30 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/married-to-the-business-26372263.html }
WHILE there was no trepidation about working together as husband and wife, Eric Ring and Lisa Forde were worried about the financial risks they were exposing themselves to when they went into business. Last year the pair, who have been married for six years, opened the doors on the 'Silk Road' furniture and accessories business which imports and designs interiors. Having leveraged their home to create most of the funding for the business, the pair found that they automatically switched into individual roles when the business started. "There is a natural inclination for us to do separate things," said Mr Ring. "I would be very involved in the day-to-day running of the showroom and dealing with people. Having had a sales background, that was natural for me. "Lisa would be more involved in the consultations. There is a natural breakdown of tasks and it works quite well. She works from home - if she comes into the showroom, she tends to get pulled around from A to B and she finds it very distracting and dosen't get the stuff done she wants to get done. "Sometimes it is difficult to get away from the whole thing. You might be at home or having dinner and all the talk might be about what is going on in the shop and one of you might not be in the mood to discuss that because you have had it all day. "It is part of your life so you don't have much of a choice. It is sort of omnipresent and that can occasionally be a little bit too much. I wouldn't go back and work for another organisation." Husband and wife teams have become the norm when starting up a family business, according to Linda Murphy from the centre for family business in University College Cork (UCC). "The advantages of them both working together are that you have the level of understanding of the commitment, which is a huge factor because they would share the same goals," said Ms Murphy. Leaders "You would be combining the family and work life and they wouldn't mind so much putting the time in. "Traditionally the woman would revert to the woman's role. She may look at things like doing the accounts but this is changing; we are having more women leaders but traditionally men would be the leaders." At the end of September, Bob Geldof will open a conference in UCC which will focus on avoiding potential conflict in family business. Much like the owners of 'Silk Road' have done, husbands and wives have been told to set out clear and defined roles as to what each of them do in the new business. "The ways to avoid conflict are to have clearly stated roles. What you have to understand is that these two people have come willingly to start up the venture but they might not understand some of the things and they might not have realised the amount of time they have spent together, working together and living together and that can lead to tension," said Ms Murphy. "Tension can evolve when the woman has to take the step back to fulfil household and motherly roles." A recent survey from Ulster Bank shows that men are three times more likely to go into business by themselves in order to make money compared to women. Partner in PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) Teresa McColgan said it is vital to separate the business from the marital relationship. "The couple will have responsibilities to their employees, their customers and their suppliers, and in the unfortunate event of marital breakdown, provision needs to be made for the business to survive and support these stakeholders," said Ms McColgan. "We recommend thinking about a family constitution or shareholder agreement, which is something we generally recommend to non-related people going into business together anyway. "In a family situation, in addition to the usual provisions with regard to decision-making procedures, share transfer, valuation, exit provisions, dividend policy and management participation, consideration needs to be given to issues such as the involvement of in-laws, family jobs, voting control and what happens in the event of marital breakdown, etc." How the business is structured is also an important factor, said Declan Doyle, director of business and wealth services at PwC. "The first thing to sort out is how they are going to structure the new business," he said. "Are they going to incorporate a company of which they are going to be shareholders or are they going to set up a partnership of which they are going to be partners? "The fact that they are married shouldn't mean that they treat their arrangements any differently to unrelated persons coming together to start up a business. "A significant challenge facing married couples who are actively involved in the same business is the management of the joint decision-making process in relation to critical issues such as trading strategy, possible involvement of family members in the business, exit strategy, etc. "The same dynamics would not normally exist for couples who do not mix family and business life. For this reason we would encourage the couple to appoint a trusted and impartial external adviser to assist them through these challenges as they arise." The future role of the business also needs to be taken into account, said Ms Murphy, as new inputs can lead to conflicts. "Where someone else marries into a business, it can lead to huge conflict because the outsider isn't in there from the beginning and there could be value in the way things were done all along," she said. "There are things which one would realise straight away but maybe an outsider wouldn't. It is that misunderstanding of the family and the business that is where most conflict emerges."  A couple trying not to drive each other crazy in the kitchen WITH all the characteristics of a high-end successful business, the start of 'Drumms Exclusive Kitchen Products' was far from luxurious, as the opulent nature of its products might suggest. Having returned from the UK in the early 1990s, Sean and Adrienne Drumm had little more than the Irl£1,200 to buy them a van to start their fledgling business with. Since then, however, the company has grown to annual sales in the region of ?5m for the wholesale high-end domestic kitchen equipment firm. While starting up the company, Mr Drumm simultaneously worked in supermarkets doing promotional radio to pay the bills and says his wife was involved from the very beginning. "At that time we had no computer so everything was handwritten, like the invoices. She has been in it from the word go and she was holding down a job as well. It started from very humble beginnings," said Mr Drumm. Having been in operation for the last 12 years and grown to employ a staff of eight people, Mr Drumm says there are clear lines of demarcation between what he and his wife do in the business. "At one stage at the beginning I was trying to throw her out of the office, she was driving me so crazy. We just couldn't see eye-to-eye from her way of doing things and my way," he said. "As far as I was concerned, I was the boss, that was it, I knew what I was doing, she didn't. I think after that blow-up, we settled down and divided things out. "I'm sales; I'm a crap manager but I can go out and knock on doors. I always need someone to hoover up after me and that is what she was doing. She is good at detail and I'm not." Separating work from home life has also proved difficult at times, especially in the early years of the business, but that has now settled. "There is no mention of it at home now, it was mainly in the first few years," said Mr Drumm. "We keep it separate. I am out knocking on doors and she would be dealing with customers. It is not often that the two would meet. "I would say that there will always be the two of us in the business. The children are taking up some time at the moment but I would say as they get older, she will become far more involved again." 
