business
{ Sean Gallagher 
    March 29 2014 01:06 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/small-business/your-stories/select-digital-print-on-the-path-to-greater-success-30137744.html }
BEING a woman in business can sometimes be challenging. One woman who knows this all too well is Tara Wilson Black, founder and managing director of Select Digital Print Group.  She specialises in producing short-run digital print for the exhibition, display and event industries. Her company works with a wide range of advertising and design agencies, exhibition companies as well as directly with a range of small and medium-sized businesses. With advances in modern printing methods, digital printing means that images can now be sent directly to a large commercial laser or ink-jet printer using digital files such as PDFs and those from other graphics software programmes. This process results in much faster turnaround times for customers. It can also be considerably cheaper given that customers no longer need to order large numbers or runs of printed material and can, instead, opt for short runs or sometimes even single prints. Tara is bubbling with energy and enthusiasm as she welcomes me to her expansive showrooms and production facility in Tallaght in south Dublin. She introduces me to her husband, Philip, who looks after the production and operations side of the business. The showroom manifestly reflects the personality of the company she has built and is packed full of colourful examples of work she and her team have completed. There are many samples of company letterheads, business cards as well as corporate brochures and folders. There are also lots of promotional types of products such as mugs, mouse-mats and T-shirts. But most impressive of all is the array of large-scale displays, point of sale material and colourful pull-up and pop-up display stands that are dotted around the place. These are typically the type and large-sized images used by companies to promote their brands in shops, at trade shows or at major exhibitions. It's easy to spot many well-known businesses and brand names. Prominent among these is the now famous Dublin Web Summit, Europe's largest tech conference. The fact that Select Digital Print has been chosen by the Web Summit as their print media partner for the past few years is a strong indicator as to their level of quality and efficiency. "The team at the Summit are really great and the event has turned out to be a real landmark event for the country," says Tara. "We ended up producing over 8km of digital print for the event including everything from visitor packs and media cards to large-scale graphical displays." Tara grew up in Tallaght and went on to study Print Origination at the Dublin Institute of Technology at Bolton Street. With only two women in a class of 13, it was a sign of the challenging role that lay ahead for a woman seeking to break into a sector that up to that point had been largely male-dominated. Once qualified, she spent the next five years working for a variety of design agencies where she honed her skills and learned her trade. "I went through the traditional apprenticeship-type programme, learning the complete printing process from start to finish," explains Tara. "But there were very limited opportunities for women in the print industry back then. "I went as far as I could go until I began to feel like I had more knowledge of media and printing than some of the people I was working for at the time," she admits. Growing restless and increasingly agitated, she decided to take what she calls "a leap of faith" and decided to start her own print business. That was in 2003. Ten years on, and having won six major Irish Print Awards, the Young Print Manager of the Year and the South Dublin Female Entrepreneur of the Year Awards, she has no regrets. However, like most entrepreneurs, Tara soon learned the truth behind the well-known saying "The only place where reward comes before work is in the dictionary". "For a long time I was the new kid on the block. But I worked hard. And I kept introducing new equipment and technology into the business to ensure that we were at the forefront of the digital print industry," she says. Her persistence paid off and soon Tara began to develop a growing list of loyal and quality customers. But her greatest challenge in the early days of the business turned out to be her inability to raise the finance she needed to grow the business. "I wasn't taken seriously by my bank manager at the time," she says disappointedly. "And I can still remember the frustration of having lots of doors slammed in my face." In the end, her only option was to remortgage her home to invest in getting her business off the ground. Thankfully her decision paid off and today her company, Select Digital Print, has created five jobs and is continuing to grow steadily. In the beginning and with little capital available with which to promote her new business, Tara turned to social media as a way to increase the profile of the business. She invested what money she had in online promotions and sites such as Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. She became somewhat of an expert on social media and began to implement a search engine optimisation strategy so that customers could easily find her business online when they went looking for print solutions. "It's not enough to have a business. Your customers need to be able to find you," she tells me. "It's like making the effort to go to a business networking event where you know there will be lots of potential customers but forgetting to bring your business cards with you. "You simply have to promote your business if you want to get noticed," she insists. Given the challenges she had faced starting out in business, she took the courageous step of setting up the Irish Women in Business network in 2008. "I wanted to create a safe environment where women like me would have the opportunity to share ideas and get support from other women who understood the unique challenges they were facing," she explains. As the business expanded, Tara realised that she could not be good at every single aspect of the printing game and so, in 2010, she made the strategic decision to become an expert in one area. "Sometimes you have to just focus on a particular part of an industry and become a leader in that field. For us, that was digital print," she explains. She invested in the latest and best digital print equipment and technology. With budgets for most customers now under pressure, due to the downturn in the economy, this proved to be a huge hit among those seeking to reduce their printing costs. In 2011 and 2012, she invested further in the latest in binding and booklet making equipment so as to enable her to target that end of the market. What does she put the success of the business down to? "That's simple," she replies, smiling. "It's about hard work, determination, investing in our business and about consistently delivering quality. And it's also about having great staff who place the same value on honesty and integrity as I do and who care about their work and about taking care of our customers," she adds. She has worked hard to make the company a creative space and a fun place to work. There are lots of fun images and inspirational quotes hanging prominently on the walls that add to the overall atmosphere of the place. "Our clients love the vibe of the place, and many have become long-term friends," she explains proudly. For Tara, though, it's not all about money. She is also committed to the community and has been actively involved in numerous campaigns to raise funds for such groups as the Irish Cancer Society, Beaumont Hospital Foundation and Debra Ireland. What about the future? "We are definitely focused on continued growth. But I want that growth to be organic," insists Tara. "Using our own funds to expand the business may take longer but it's a prudent strategy that has served us well so far," she adds. Tara Wilson Black is a very savvy business woman. She has shown great courage in starting her own business and even greater courage by entering a sector that had traditionally been largely dominated by men. Her greatest courage, however, was in taking the risk of remortgaging her own home in order to fund her fledgling business. Since then she has carved out a niche for herself by focusing on digital rather than traditional printing and by providing more cost-effective and fast turnaround print solutions. It is clear that she loves what she does and that she is hugely committed to her customers, her staff and her business. Her strong traits of honesty and integrity appear to be as much to do with who she is as with what she does. I only hope her former bank manager is reading this. If so, wouldn't it be nice to send her a card and say well done. In case he doesn't, Tara, let me say it instead. Well done. Sunday Indo Business 
