business
{ Sean Gallagher 
    January 03 2015 08:09 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/from-small-potatoes-to-a-massive-250m-fruit-and-veg-distributor-30880066.html }
No-one ever starts a big business. That's one of the key lessons I have learned in my many years of working with entrepreneurs. And this week's story is certainly a testament to this fact.  Almost 60 years ago, James A Barry left his job as an ice cream salesman to start supplying fruit and vegetables to local shops in his native Cork. Today, the Barry Group employs 230 staff and has a turnover of more than a quarter of a billion euro. Now owned and run by his son, Jim, the business has grown to become one of Ireland's leading wholesale and distribution companies. As I arrive to meet Jim at the company's headquarters in Mallow, Co Cork, I am immediately impressed by the size of the place. Tall buildings stretch out over acres of land, housing more than 150,000 sq ft of state-of-the-art warehousing and distribution facilities. "The essence of our business is that we take in large containers of products such as food, drink, hardware, personal care and household items - and then we ship these out in much smaller amounts, to retail stores and wholesalers who, in turn, sell them on to their own customers," explains Jim. "We supply our own symbol stores that include over 120 Costcutter outlets, 50 Quik Pick stores and 85 Carry Out off-licences, as well as a large number of independent retail stores throughout the country. "In addition, our trade division supplies a wide variety of smaller wholesale businesses, catering firms and pubs directly as well as a growing number of export customers in places such as the UK, US, France, Switzerland and Cyprus," he adds. Though on the surface, this looks like a straightforward business model, I soon learn that to run it efficiently is both a complex and highly labour -intensive operation. It's also a business that involves carrying large amounts of stock, requires significant cash flow management and calls for rigorous controls and highly integrated technology. Everything starts in the buying department. Here, teams of experienced negotiators are on the phones to suppliers and manufacturers sourcing products at the best possible prices. "It is the first rule in retail and wholesale that if you are not buying right, then you can't sell right," insists Jim. Next it's on to the marketing department, where I meet the company's in-house graphic design team. They are working on new packaging designs and point of sale material for stores. In the same office, the customer relations team are busy talking to customers about the company's latest deals. There's a vibrancy to the place and everyone seems genuinely friendly but focused. With so many staff to manage and more than 1,000 customers to look after, the HR and finance departments are busy too. As Jim shows me around the company's massive warehouse, I feel dwarfed by the tall rows of pallets that seem to go on for ever. I begin to wonder how anyone could possibly know where to find anything in this ocean of goodies. All is revealed when I meet the teams of forklift drivers and pickers. Each one is carrying a hand- held scanning device that electronically guides them to whatever they are looking for, stopping here and there to pick and pack what is needed to meet each order. Jim introduces me to each by name and it's clear they have a great respect for their colleague and boss. "With more than 300,000 boxes of products passing through the warehouse every single week, it's critical that we have the right stock systems in place to ensure efficiency for our customers and the correct management information for ourselves," insists Jim. So much so that the company also has its own dedicated IT department whose job it is to constantly maintain, update and integrate the hardware and software systems that drive each of the functional areas of the business. When Jim's father, James, drops by to say hello, I can't but imagine how vast everything must seem to him now compared to when he first started the business. Originally from the village of Banteer, in north Co Cork, James A Barry set up the business in 1955, after spotting a gap in the market to provide local shops with fresh fruit and vegetables. Buying produce from the markets in Dublin, he had them delivered by train to the local station at Banteer from where he delivered them personally to his customers. "In the beginning, he ran the whole business from his mother's sitting room," explains Jim proudly. Over time, James began to broaden his offering to include minerals, biscuits and other confectionery items and by the early 1970s had moved the business to Mallow town where he opened a small cash & carry. Jim remembers working there at the weekends and during his school holidays. He loved the work so much that after secondary school, he joined the business full-time. Steady growth followed throughout the 1980s - and by the 1990s the company had established itself as a national player in the wholesale and distribution sector. In 1996, they set up their own Quik Pick brand of stores. In 2000 (by which time Jim had taken over as managing director), they acquired the franchise rights for Ireland for the Costcutter brand. In 2009, and recognising the growth in consumption of alcohol in the home, the company bought the Carry Out chain of off-licences. Like any rollercoaster of a journey though, there have been downs as well as ups for the Barry Group. "The retail business is fiercely competitive and as a local business, we are constantly up against the big multiples and giant discounters," explains Jim. "In 2008, when the downturn in the economy took hold, it sparked what was essentially a price war by the larger retailers. We were fortunate that the efficiencies we had built up in the business protected us and it was not until 2012 that we began to feel the pressure. "That year, a heightening of the price war, together with a lack of bank credit, resulted in many small stores around the country being forced out of business - and because some of these were our customers, it had an obvious knock-on effect on us," admits Jim. That same year Jim had what he calls his "A ha moment". On a trip to Silicon Valley, as part of the Ernst and Young Entrepreneur of the Year Programme, he had the opportunity to visit Facebook and meet with senior executives from the likes of Apple. As a result, he began to reflect on his own company's future and on the need to improve his own leadership capability and that of his senior management team. What transpired next was an honest and forensic examination of every aspect of the business. The process threw up a shortlist of projects that Jim and his team felt would be pivotal to the company's future success. Among these was the need to introduce leaner procedures, reduce waste and drive efficiencies across all areas of the business. A greater emphasis on team-building and better communication within and between departments was also highlighted. As a result, the company adjusted its cost base, worked harder than ever before and succeeded in maintaining their existing level of turnover throughout the downturn. Jim had come to realise that his purpose as a leader was not to simply create more followers, but to develop more leaders. As a result, he invited all the members of his management team to participate in a specially designed leadership development programme. This helped them become increasingly aligned, focused and even more motivated than before. Importantly, too, and for the first time, they began to see themselves not just as managers within the business but as leaders. In line with this, the company, went on to achieve the Excellence Through People award at platinum level as well as becoming one of Deloitte's 'Best Managed Companies' and securing the 'Great Places to Work' award. "It's all part of helping our team to feel valued and engaged which in turn leads to a much higher level of customer care and service," insists Jim. "But as a company, we can never sit back. We have to constantly re-invent ourselves and help our customers do the same. That's why innovation has now become a core part of our DNA," he adds. Such innovation has recently led the company to develop its own brands of products such as its Appletree Green Cider and Brandeberg beer. It's a strategy Jim wants to see extended to other product areas. "We are also increasing our focus on fresh and hot food and our recent introduction of a chilled food distribution solution, in co-operation with Cuisine de France, will now allow us offer a wider range of products to our customers," explains Jim. "And we also see the introduction of healthier food options as something we will focus more on in the future," he concludes. Jim Barry is an outstanding leader and a visionary in the world of retail, wholesale and distribution. He is intensely passionate about what he does and where he wants to take the Barry Group. In meeting him, it is evident that Jim genuinely cares. He cares about his business and about doing things right. He cares too, about his staff, their environment and their professional development. And importantly, he cares about his customers. I am sure that when his father, James, started out in business, he never would have thought that his small fruit and veg run would one day turn into such a huge and successful business. He must surely be proud of what it has become and proud too of the leadership role his son, Jim, has played in making that happen. Create a positive team environment. "It's important to develop a positive culture in the workplace. When people feel supported, engaged and empowered, they will enjoy coming to work, will perform better and as a result, so too will your business." Customer service is vital - so don't leave it to chance "If you and your team don't look after your customers, then your competitors will. You can't leave customer service to chance. You have to encourage, monitor and reward good customer service." A robust cash flow is vital for every business "Cash flow is the life blood of every single business. You've got to make sure that you have strong and robust cash flow systems in place while at the same time embracing a lean mindset." If you have a business worth talking about, contact Sean at seangallagher@independent.ie   Sunday Indo Business 
