business
{  
    May 14 2007 10:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/to-buy-or-not-to-buy-26288307.html }
IN the same way that the purchase of a first home is one of the key decisions for a family, buying a premises is one of the most important business decisions for a company. Usually seen as an investment decision rather than one for operational reasons, the purchase of a premises can demand a large input from a business whose capital may be better used in other areas at the early stages of operation. Director of PricewaterhouseCoopers real estate group Louise Caffrey said there are various advantages and disadvantages to purchasing a premises and giving the company a permanent home. "Purchasing a building provides both certainty and flexibility for business planning in the long term to an extent that entering into a lease may not provide," said Ms Caffrey. Certainty "Certainty is of most importance where the premises acts as the contact point with the business's customers, so the goodwill the business creates is closely associated with the premises and its location - for example, a pub business. "This may not be as big an issue in other businesses, for example, web-based distribution businesses. Freehold ownership may also provide greater flexibility than leasehold for altering or modifying the interior or exterior of the building structure. "It also ensures that the benefits of any capital expenditure accrue to the business owner rather than an unconnected landlord. "Indeed, tenants can find themselves in a position that improvements to the rental premises which they make lead a higher rent being payable to the landlord. "Acquiring premises is, however, a long-term business decision that can require substantial capital investment. Bank finance should be available to assist with the purchase but depending on the banking terms imposed, a significant deposit and the acquisition costs associated with acquiring the premises - in particular, stamp duty at a rate of up to 9pc - may need to be financed from a company's own funds. "As in any business decision, the return available on any investment and the opportunity cost of making that investment must be considered. In a start-up situation, it may well be that funds are required to grow and expand the business as the start of any new venture usually proves to be cash-consumptive rather than cash-generative - so tying funds up in acquiring a business premises may not be the most appropriate use of those funds. "In that situation, the decision to buy can be made at a later stage when the business prospects are more clearly visible and the business is in a stronger financial position." Audit partner at BDO Simpson Xavier John O'Callaghan said a number of businesses, such as pubs, service stations and hotels, have become more valuable due to their underlying property value. "Early stage businesses need to be wary of entering long leases as the business may outgrow the premises or, indeed, fail, thus leaving a considerable liability to a landlord which will probably be personally guaranteed by the business owner," said Mr O'Callaghan. "While a business is in initial growth phase it is usually better to rent premises to allow for flexibility to move as the scale increases. If specialist premises are required, buying may be the only option. "Purchase of premises will require equity (deposit), which could cause a strain on an early stage business. "The purchase of premises should not be seen as the ultimate goal of a business but rather as an investment decision at an appropriate time." Choosing to move from rented accommodation to purchasing a premises should be a decision which is given the same rigour of thought as any long-term investment opportunity. "A company may choose to move from rented accommodation to purchased premises for a number of reasons," said Ms Caffrey. "Whilst it is the strategic needs of the business and the available financial resources that typically dictate whether business premises should be purchased, the influencing factors will change over time, and ultimately the decision should be made by each business taking into account changes in its own circumstances. "Business owners may also consider acquiring premises in his or her own name so that rent paid by the company is received by him or her and not by an unconnected landlord." After the decision is made on whether to buy a property, it should be decided whether to hold it in the owner's name or that of the business. Tax "From a tax perspective, holding property within a company can give rise to multiple layers of tax where the ultimate shareholder wishes to 'cash in' on the equity in the property," said Ms Caffrey. "For example, where a company which owns property sells that property, it will be subject to corporation tax on the taxable gain arising. "Extracting those funds out of the company into the hands of the shareholder(s) will lead to a further layer of tax at the level of the individual which gives rise to a significantly higher overall effective tax rate. "Where the property is held directly by the shareholder(s) and they dispose of it, they are likely to be taxable only once and at the capital gains tax rate of 20pc on any gain arising. "In addition, should a parent company dispose of a subsidiary with substantial property assets (as opposed to one without substantial property assets), this may affect its ability to claim the exemption from tax on the gain arising that would, broadly speaking, otherwise apply. "Whilst there are other tax considerations which should be taken into account, the potential for double taxation where property is held within a company is usually the principal tax consideration in making the decision. "Many business owners also like to hold their business premises in their own name, as it keeps assets separate from the company should trading difficulty arise." 
