business
{  
    May 18 2010 10:16 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/bank-of-ireland-launches-its-second-national-enterprise-week-initiative-27802256.html }
BANK of Ireland has launched its second National Enterprise Week which will feature over 60 tailored advice seminars along with showcasing opportunities in branches for business owners, taking place across its retail branch network from Monday, May 24th to Friday, May 28th. The week-long initiative, which is open to both customers and noncustomers, is being held as part of the bank's ongoing commitment to actively support business recovery in the SME sector by providing them with the necessary financial support and practical advice during the current challenging trading environment. This two-stranded approach aims to provide advice events for businesses with an opportunity to meet with leading industry experts, and learn from their experiences, while the 'Show your Business' element will give businesses a platform on which to promote their product/service in our branches to a new marketplace and to network with other businesses who face similar challenges. The initiative has been recognised as part of European SME Week 2010, which takes place across Europe between 25 May and 1 June. The advice events will take the format of breakfast briefings, enterprise evenings, presentations and seminars, on themes such as 'Starting/ Maintaining - Getting the most out of your business', 'Succeeding in a challenging environment', 'Combating the recession' and 'Diversifying your business in challenging times'. A variety of speakers will discuss topics such as credit management, overhead control, going green, employment law and company tax. Speakers will include local business service providers (accountants and solicitors), successful local entrepreneurs, industry experienced panellists who operate the Bank's independent mentoring service, Enterprise Builder, alongside senior management from various parts of the business. As part of National Enterprise week, there will be a number of different events taking place in North Dublin: There is an Enterprise Evening on Wednesday, June2nd from 6.30pm – 9pm in Bewleys Airport Hotel. The title of the meeting is 'Growing your Business'. Opening the event will be Colin Kingston, Dublin North Territory Manager. The key speaker will be Sean Gallagher, owner of Smarthomes amd dragon on Dragon's Den, who will talk about The Future of Business. There will also be an Enterprise Builder mentor presenting on 'Smart ways to grow your business in 2010'. Jackie Masterson, taxation partner with Russell, Brennan Keane will give advice about Tax Planning. There will also be a local customer giving a practical outlook on business for 2010; The Swords branch is hosting an Enterprise Evening on Tuesday, May 25th and on Wednesday, May 26th . The title of the Enterprise Evening is Starting your Business. Opening the event will be Paddy Lonergan, Manger Bank of Ireland Swords: The Dublin Airport branch is hosting a Breakfast Briefing on Tuesday, May 25th in Dublin Airport branch. The title of the briefing is 'Supporting your Business'. Opening the event will be Fiona Hughes, Manger Bank of Ireland Dublin Airport. A selection of businesses exhibiting in branches across North Dublin include: Skerries - Designworks Photography, Cinnful Bakes, Lusk Fitness; Malahide - LuLa Belle Ladies Clothing, NASA Electronic Safety Equipment, The Greener Homes Store; Dublin Airport – Boggi clothing, Butlers Chocolate, Bytek Printing. Colin Kingston said: ' The extensive positive feedback we received from businesses and local communities following the inaugural event last year and the two subsequent 'Show your Business' weeks held in October and December, served to highlight the importance of continuing to offer tangible advice and information to SMEs, along with supporting the financial needs of sustainable and viable businesses through these challenging times. 'Recent research we conducted with our branch managers/business advisors indicated that progressive and more innovative businesses that have adapted their business to changes in the marketplace as early as possible, are the businesses who are best positioned for an upturn in the economy. 'It also highlighted that many customers still perceive credit as unobtainable, as many have expressed surprise when their applications were approved. Our message is that if you are a viable business (ie have a good business plan, sound knowledge of your market and have the capacity to meet repayments) we will support you financially.' For the most up-todate information on events taking place across the country during National Enterprise Week log onto www.bankofireland.ie/business (click on business events) or contact your local branch. 
