business
{  
    May 19 2010 08:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/bank-of-ireland-hosts-national-enterprise-week-27395022.html }
BANK of Ireland is hosting its second National Enterprise Week from Monday 24 to Friday 28 May, with advice seminars along with showcasing opportunities in branches for business owners taking place across its retail branch network. The initiative has been recognised as part of European SME Week 2010, which takes place across Europe between May 25 May and June 1. The overall purpose of the initiative is to continue to provide relevant advice and assistance, alongside financial support of sustainable and viable businesses through these challenging times. The initiative is being held in recognition of the pivotal role that SMEs have to play in the recovery of the Irish economy and to work with businesses to help achieve this recovery. It's a two-stranded initiative featuring over 60 advice events and showcasing opportunities for businesses throughout the bank's branch network and is open to both non-customers and customers of the bank. The advice events will give SMEs the opportunity to meet with leading industry experts, gain free advice and support while learning from the speaker's insights and experiences. Guest speakers will include senior bank personnel, local business service providers (accountants and solicitors), successful local entrepreneurs, and industry experienced panellists who operate the bank's independent mentoring service, Enterprise Builder. Bank of Ireland in Tralee is hosting an Enterprise Evening on Tuesday 25 of May at 5.30pm. The theme will be business in the current climate and the guest speaker will be Tom Moore from Bank of Ireland and an Enterprise Builder Mentor. Bank of Ireland also has a number of flagship events across the country where a selection of guest speakers and Dragons from Dragons' Den will make presentations. One such event is the business breakfast event entitled ' Meeting Today's Challenges', which will take place in Thomand Park Stadium, Limerick on Thursday 27 of May. Sean Gallagher, entrepreneur and Dragon from Dragons' Den will tell his own story of business success, while former Munster rugby player Frankie Sheehan will be the MC for the morning. Other events on around the country will include: Building better Business in 2010 in the Bank of Ireland, Dundalk on Thursday May 20. On Tuesday May 25, Dunhill MutliEducation Centre in Waterford will host a business breakfast in ways to make your business more ' green'. A business Breakfast will also be held in the House of Lords, College Green Dublin on May 26. Speakers will include Rick Kelley, Head of European Sales, Facebook, who will discuss how to promote your business. A full list of events is available from allaboutbusiness.ie . Meanwhile, the showcasing opportunity allows SMEs to display and sell their products in their local branches. It will offer businesses a platform in which to display their diversity, innovation and entrepreneurship, whilst also benefiting them financially. Feedback from previous events showed that participants reached a new marketplace and developed sales opportunities. It gave them greater exposure to the local business community, allowed them gain valuable knowledge and provided them with a networking opportunity with other business experts and business owners. It also provided many of them with free publicity. OTHER BENEFITS OF THE INITIATIVE: Lift the spirit of entrepreneurship by providing businesses with an opportunity to network and to meet with other businesses and experts that can support their business. Show Your Business week provides a platform for SMEs to get straight to the heart of the community, by promoting products and services in their local branch. It's also a great opportunity for SMEs to reach out to the public and let them know about their business. In these challenging times it is important that businesses can seek advice and support from all parts of the local community – Bank of Ireland is at the centre of this community and is leading this charge. The initiative assists businesses in growing their local networks. Gives businesses the support to become more innovative and focused on the future. Encourages would be entrepreneurs who are thinking about setting up a business to get the right advice. FORMAT OF INITIATIVES Advice initiatives will take the format of breaking briefings, enterprise evening and seminars featuring presentations. Outline of presentations: Enterprise Builder presentation will give details of the service and explains how customers can avail of it. Customer presentations – a customer will speak from their experience and explain what steps they have taken to adapt to the current environment. Local service provider ( accountants/solicitors): Generic advice on what businesses should consider to ensure their business is able to cope with the challenges presented to them – cash flow management, overhead control, common pitfalls etc. 
