business
{  
    February 07 2010 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/some-weeks-i-have-to-beg-for-money-26630218.html }
The banks are running the country and are fast running it into the ground; I speak from personal experience of dealing with them on a daily basis. Unless we are going to end up as a state of social welfare recipients and civil servants, the Government has to stop the banks in their tracks before any more damage is done. We are in a very serious state and, up to now, there has been a lot of lip service. So today I am imploring the people of Ireland to please take notice of what is happening in this country and to stand together and do something to protect our people and our businesses against these financial vipers. I am confident that I speak today for thousands of people who are in the claws of the bankers without any chance of release -- except through emigration or death -- when i say that sometimes it would be easier to die than deal with these ruthless, faceless institutions. It is a joke to say the banks are helping small and medium enterprises (SMEs). On the contrary, we are being strangled by them. Look around any town in Ireland and all you see are 'To Let' and 'For Sale' signs. They may be bailing out the big boys, but they are running small businesses into the ground. As I write, I know of a small-time builder whose name was never in bright lights but who earned an honest income, who has sold a house, but the bank is refusing to give him a few thousand euro to finish off the house so he can complete the sale. We have been loyal customers of the same bank for the past 40 years and never in that time have we reneged on repayments. Down the years we have discovered that it has overcharged us, it has surcharged us, and never an apology from it -- but all that is forgivable compared to its recent tactics. We were in business during the severe recession of the Eighties, but during that time the bank personnel had some regard and respect for the customer. They also gave the impression that they were working with you rather than against you. Then the boom times happened and we were the bankers' pets again. They couldn't wait to dole out money as fast as lightning to develop our business, which is very viable. But now that the lean, mean times have arrived, the love affair is over and the bank wants its money and it wants it now. It is a case of pay up, shut up, or close down -- and when that is done, then the bank suggests you sell any remaining assets you have to make up the shortfall. This is the stuff that keeps people awake at night. We employ 20 people and the bank doesn't give a damn about job losses; and since our business is seasonal, some weeks we literally have to beg for the money to pay the wages. In the not too distant past, a bank manager arrived and stayed in the same bank for years, maybe until his retirement, thereby really getting to know each and every one of his customers. He joined the local golf club to generate business and was a respected member of society. He knew, without the help of any business plan, who was credit worthy or not. He did not have to consult a computer to see if an overdraft could be extended for a few months because he understood his customers' needs and their ability to pay and their track record. In the past number of years the bank manager in our local branch has been changed several times. They have been moved on to another branch rapidly -- usually with about a week's notice -- so then we get a new manager with whom we have to go through the same gory details of our banking history and when the ink is hardly dry on the paper the manager is moved on never to be met again. And we are expected to trust these people with our money, assets, and deeds of our properties. How does all this affect the day-to-day running of our business? It is nearly impossible to do business in the present climate because we are constantly hounded. From early on Monday morning -- yes, we get a phone call every Monday morning -- demanding our lodgement. And even though they know in the bank a lodgement goes in each week, they are now demanding to know what time it is arriving! This is intimidation and pressure of the vilest type. I myself was accosted by our new manager recently, while I was making a lodgement, to advise me that my overdraft was over the limit. Since there was a queue of people behind me that I knew personally, I felt completely mortified and humiliated. But such is the attitude and their quest for money at all costs that they have even forgotten basic manners when dealing with customers. Next we have the famous "meetings" with senior personnel, apart from the local bank manager. Remember we have been customers for 40 years! In the past four years we have had several of these encounters. These meetings are not for the faint-hearted or persons of a nervous disposition. The bankers are now travelling in packs of four people at a time, which is very intimidating to say the least. At each meeting we have a new set of four rolled out. So each time we get "fresh meat" but never a repetition of the same people. It is almost like being in front of a firing squad. At these meetings we are treated like failures because the business is not trading as well as it did during the boom. When we explain that the business is just a fledgling business and breaking even, it falls on deaf ears. At these meetings, the bankers take no kind of responsibility for their actions. The folders are opened and closed and it is always the same answer "we must get on to Dublin". Today I am saying to you, the readers: "Lets all get on to Dublin once and for all". They always suggest staff cut backs in our businesses, yet it takes four of them to attend a meeting. They are "fat cat" thugs and should be sacked. Then to really sink the ship of our business, they suggest raising our interest rates to crippling heights, no extension on the overdraft facilities or money for basic capital expenditure. The business is just choking. There is a new breed of banker out there and, to be honest, one or two of them have admitted to me personally that they are ashamed of what they do. Maybe I am being cruel by describing their work as more akin to a debt collector than your local, friendly bank manager but I have seen their bully-boy tactics in full swing. It is done under the guise of "giving the bank comfort" but I can assure you they don't care about your comfort. No matter how much security they already have on our loans, they want more and more. They are quite happy to take your home as a personal guarantee and will do anything they can to get you to sign it over. The banks acted irresponsibly. They loaned millions of euro. They even loaned to customers over 60 who had no chance of repaying unless they lived and worked until they were 120. They gave loans based on performing assets, they mortgaged people's homes and farms to run businesses -- often without people even realising it. They cunningly got customers to sign personal guarantees against businesses without them realising the seriousness of their actions. It was a case of sign here and get on with the business as fast as possible, the cheque will be in the post. They got guarantees from parents for children's businesses that were never tested for viability. Now these same parents, many of them retired, are being threatened with losing their homes and having their credit rating abolished. Stories of parents being tricked into signing personal guarantees for family businesses even when the banks knew full well that the business was about to fold are real. These financial parasites coaxed and coerced customers who had sold any type of a property into covert investments. There is a general consensus among the few of us left (because small businesses are closing by the hour ) running SMEs that something will have to be done sooner rather than later to stop the despair and suicides being caused by the banks. We are not being treated as entrepreneurs who took risks, who created imaginative businesses, who kept old family businesses alive, who have worked long hours for years and years, who have provided massive employment in the past, and who created the Celtic Tiger. Instead, we are being treated more like second-class citizens and criminals without any kind of respect for our track records. Many people are so dejected by the treatment they are receiving that their hearts and minds are no longer on their businesses. They are closing up quietly, putting up the 'To Let' or 'For Sale' signs and battening down the hatches -- laying off loyal staff who may have been with them for years, and then walking away very disillusioned people. For many it is a lifetime of work and dreams down the toilet without a cent left to even buy a roll of toilet paper. Some are packing up their families and whatever possessions are left and slipping away on the boat or plane, hoping to get work and start a new life in another country. And in some tragic cases, others are taking their own lives. Our young people and our entrepreneurs -- the business leaders of the future -- are fleeing the country. Others are languishing in psychiatric hospitals from the sheer stress of losing their hard-earned money, while others have been left physically sick from worry. And why? Because the bankers rode roughshod and did what they liked. And they are still doing so. Recently I met an undertaker who told me, with tears in his eyes, about a young mother of small children who owed a paltry sum; she couldn't cope with the hassle and took her own life. At least in the US, people have the satisfaction of seeing those wheelers and dealers behind bars. Here in Ireland they get handsome golden handshakes, massive pensions or, in some cases, promotion. So how are the banks really treating people now? Many customers are afraid to leave their home in case the bailiffs arrive and repossess their few belongings. Many can't leave their home because they are too poor to go out, having being robbed in clear daylight by the banks. The banks are ruthlessly commandeering businesses up and down the country. What is going to be the outcome of it all? People are genuinely desperately worried at the prospects of the Nama fallout. The Government moved with great haste to save their friends, the bankers, with guarantees of billions of taxpayers' money and, with very few exceptions, allowing the same personnel to continue to run the banks. These people are now persecuting the very same taxpayers whose monies are being used to bail them out. The situation needs government action. All of you sufferers out there should haunt your local Fianna Fail and Green Party TDs with phone calls, letters, emails, and anything else that might spark them into action. Our laws are archaic. We must stand firm and demand that they be changed immediately to help the ordinary people of Ireland to deal with the floodgates of the financial tsunami caused by these reckless bankers and their few, choice friends. Sunday Independent 
