business
{  
    January 28 2016 02:31 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sponsored/ready-business/empowering-smes-through-technology-34404633.html }
The power of communications technologies to transform businesses and make them more efficient and profitable is something which large companies have been harnessing for many years. It is not as easy for small businesses, however. Without dedicated IT departments to make the most of the new technologies many potential benefits have been beyond their reach. Vodafone has embarked on a new initiative aimed at addressing this issue for its small business customer base. This will see dedicated business advisers being appointed to more than 100 Vodafone retail outlets around the country to offer face to face advice and assistance to small business customers. “The ability to meet someone face to face is so important to our customers”, says Vodafone head of business sales Claire Reynolds. “That’s what really makes this service stand out. The response and feedback from customers has been phenomenal. We now have advisers in 25 of our stores and they are really enthusiastic about their new roles. They are building relationships with small business customers and becoming part of the business community in their local area. That aspect is very important to us.” According to Vodafone head of consumer sales Keith Daly the initiative is a response to the increasing complexity of the technology. “In the old days our offering was a lot simpler”, he explains. “It was principally a mobile voice service. We now offer so much more and have become a total communications provider and with that comes a lot of complexity. We decided that having fully trained staff in the shops to explain the full offering and how businesses can make best use of it is the best way to deal with this for many of our customers. “Our objective is to make our retail stores into a great environment for our small business customers to call into from time to time to get help and advice in terms of making getting the best out of their communications technology”, Reynolds adds. “One of the most important facets of the service is the fact that our shops open extended hours. Small business owners and managers tend to be too busy during office hours to think about things like this. The fact that our shops are open at times that suit them is very valuable.” Even the design of the stores is changing to meet the more complex needs of business customers. “We now have a lot more seating in our stores with consultancy areas for customers”, says Daly. “What we are doing is combining a fast moving consumer goods business with a high quality service business. That is a challenge. It means that transaction times are longer but we have to accept that if we are to deliver this quality of service to customers. “We have an expanding portfolio of products and services and our customers need to know how to use them properly in their business. They can now call into a store, discuss their needs with a business adviser and be set up on a new service or with a new product on the spot. The business advisers are also able to take ownership of the customer’s particular issues. If a customer wants fibre to their premises, for example, the adviser will know how to deal with that for them and can follow it through. It can also be something as simple as explaining how to get the best out of 4G or setting them up with a mifi device or something a lot more complex like putting key business functions up in the cloud.” Reynolds sees a variety of benefits flowing from the initiative. “Our stores are in key locations around Ireland and they are in close proximity to lots of small businesses”, she notes. “Those businesses are members of their local chambers of commerce and part of the wider business community. Our business advisers are now engaging with that community as well and becoming part of it. Furthermore, our people are our success. This has opened up new career opportunities for our people. We have invested in the development of an accredited two year training programme for each of our business advisers. This opens up new avenues from them to move from retail into enterprise and other areas of the organisation.” The personal touch that the new service offers is absolutely crucial, she points out. “I can’t emphasise enough the importance of the face to face service. The advantages that businesses can gain through smart use of technology are amazing but you can’t really explain complex concepts over the telephone. Sitting down with a trained adviser who understands their business, who can recommend solutions and guide them through the best options for them is far better.” Customers will also benefit from each other’s experiences indirectly by dealing with an adviser. “Our customers are constantly coming up with their own innovations as well”, says Daly. “Customers like Souhan’s Garage in Trim who use mobile technology to monitor the carwash, to remotely open and close gates, to run marketing campaigns with customers, and make their businesses more nimble and efficient. Our advisers learn from these businesses and can pass that knowledge onto other customers who wish to explore the potential of the technology.” Online Editors 
