{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  21:29, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8035707/Air-NZ-cop-72m-hit-amid-virus-fears.html }
Air New Zealand has suspended services to Seoul as it flags a potential $NZ75 million ($A71.8 million ) full-year earnings hit from the coronavirus outbreak. The airline announced on Monday it would temporarily halt services to the South Korean capital following previously announced capacity reductions across its Asia routes, predominantly related to Shanghai and Hong Kong. Monday's announcement follows on from Qantas revealing last week it was cutting flights, sending staff off on leave and bringing forward maintenance to cope with the coronavirus outbreak's impact on travel. Global equities and oil have extended losses as the spread of the virus accelerates outside China, with infections jumping in South Korea, Italy and the Middle East. Globally, nearly 78,000 people have been infected in 29 countries. As a result of its mitigation action, Air NZ's total Asia capacity will reduce by 17 per cent for the months of February through June. Weaker forward bookings for travel on the Tasman and domestic networks have also emerged as a result of the virus, the company told the ASX. The airline said its revenue outlook for the remainder of the financial year was expected to suffer, with earnings net of significant items to be between $NZ300 million to $NZ350 million, down from the previous $NZ350 million to $NZ450 million guidance. Air NZ's ASX-listed shares had fallen 5.34 per cent to $2.48 by 1327 AEDT. "While the situation is uncertain, based on our current assumptions of lower demand as well as the benefit of the announced capacity reductions and lower jet fuel prices, the airline currently expects a net negative impact to earnings in the range of $NZ35 million to $NZ75 million as a result of coronavirus," Air NZ said. The airline will release its 2020 interim results on Thursday. Qantas meanwhile expects the outbreak to cut between $100 million to $150 million off its bottom line in the second half. Sydney Airport chief executive Geoff Culbert also said coronavirus and bushfire 2019 had delivered some of the toughest trading conditions the company had seen since the financial crisis. Corporate Travel Management said its full-year result will take a hit from coronavirus travel bans, while some retailers are bracing for potential manufacturing delays in China. 
