middle east
{ By Lee Boyce for Thisismoney.co.uk    Published:  07:48, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/bills/article-8024101/Local-milk-deliveries-making-comeback.html }
With birds chirping, stars glistening and a rather splendid slither of a low waning crescent moon, Nina Godwin braves the near zero degree temperatures in Essex to deliver milk. 'It is peaceful being out at this time,' she tells me as I join the tail-end of her Wednesday delivery route around this beautiful rural part of the county. She starts her shift at 11pm and finishes at 7am - a sort of milk Owl. Since starting in 2018, she says rounds continue to grow as more households decide to go back to the future, and have their milk delivered to their doorstep. Last year, Milk & More - bought by Muller from Dairy Crest in 2015 - saw 70,000 more customers sign-up for deliveries across the country, more than double previous years' numbers. I was one of them. On an early morning pre-commute walk to the train station last summer, a milkman said 'good morning' and waved from a Milk & More vehicle. It appears being pleasant is an effective marketing tool. Intrigued, I went onto the website and was surprised by the amount of goods on offer - not just milk. Growing up in the 1990s, we used a milkman. But that stopped - it was simply cheaper to buy the white stuff from the supermarket as part of a weekly shop.  It looked like these deliveries were set to vanish for good as the grocery juggernauts firmly muscled in. According to trade body Dairy UK, milk floats' share of the market plummeted from 90 per cent to 3 per cent when supermarkets began selling milk in plastic bottles in the 1990s. It has risen to more than 5 per cent and is predicted to climb. However, I started to pine for that nostalgic clink of the glass bottle, peeling of the foil lid and excitement of waking up to consumable goodies that magically appear on your doorstep.  My wife, who insists on organic milk, was impressed that it was an option.  Now, every Friday morning - before 7am - we have a pint of whole organic milk, semi-skimmed, a loaf of artisan sourdough, half-a-dozen Burford Brown eggs and oat milk there waiting. It means we have breakfast sorted for us and our daughter for the weekend without the need to pop to the supermarket, battling crowds and the temptation of loading the basket with unnecessary items. A pint of organic milk, delivered by Milk & More is 95p - some 35p more than Tesco. The premium is justified in my opinion, for the reasons listed above and the fact it is likely to have the delivery cost factored in - others may disagree.  Tesco also requires a minimum spend of £40 for delivery - the milkman will simply deliver just one pint on their round if you desire.  On popular search engine Google, people typing in 'milk delivery near me' and 'local milk delivery' are up 110 per cent compared to this time last year. Meanwhile, searches for 'glass milk bottle delivery' are up 80 per cent. It's not just Milk & More. You can check with your local farm to see if it offers a delivery service.  There is a handy website - Find Me A Milkman - where you can input your postcode and find one local to you. When German giant Muller - known mainly for its yoghurts - bought the business four-and-a-bit years ago, bosses might have had the insight of a future swell in households wanting to be 'greener.'  Or, a likelier scenario, it might just have got lucky. Milk & More tell me that milk delivery has seen a 'huge revival' thanks to people looking to 'live more sustainably and reduce plastic waste.' Another pull for us, is the fact we can recycle the milk bottles. They are typically reused 25 times. Meanwhile, our bread comes in a paper bag (which our milkman kindly tucks away somewhere dry if it's raining) that can go into recycling. Plastic bottles can be recycled of course - but the process is a bit more cumbersome than reusing a glass one.  Additionally, the majority of its vehicles are electric. You could argue that the whole industry was well ahead of its time, with the Government keen now to push electric vehicles onto all. Around 1,000 milkmen and women make 1.3million deliveries per week - with 100million pint bottles a year. It now claims to have the largest fleet of electric vehicles in Britain, with more than 500 in total and another 100 coming this year.  Last year, it covered 14million electric miles - the equivalent of 562 laps around the earth. It says it saved 1,340 tonnes of plastic by switching more of its milk and juice range into glass bottles, and saved a further 3,800 tonnes of CO2 thanks to only using renewable energy in 2019. Milk & More has 200 items of food, drink as well as a new range of eco-friendly household products.  Nina tells me kitchen roll has recently become a big seller, while it even sells compost. 'I had an order for 20 bags on one delivery recently - and to a really tricky home to reach,' she reveals. Last April, it launched a new range of air-freight and eco-friendly organic fruit and vegetables thanks to demand. It says 97 per cent of everything it sells is in packaging that fits the circular economy - in other words, it is reusable, recyclable or compostable. It is aiming for 100 per cent by 2025.  Among the items on the back of Nina's vehicle that I spot is a Tom Parker range of cream and River Cottage jam. 'They are incredibly popular,' she tells me as I point them out.  For me, it highlights that Milk & More are tapping into the middle-classes, looking for these upmarket products, along with hipsters who have environmental concerns.  It says it has an influx of households interested in sustainable living, looking for environmentally friendly choices. Although, milk deliveries won't work for all. For example, a friend - who lives in a block of flats - attempted to order, but they required a code for the entrance door, which only has a key.    Milk & More now has more than half a million customers. Another delivery service - McQueen's, based in Glasgow - recently revealed that demand for glass bottles has risen fivefold in two years. It now makes nearly 200,000 deliveries a day. Nina starts work at 11pm, when most - including her three children - are tucked into bed.  Despite it being early in the morning when we meet, and so towards the end of a long old slog of a shift lugging heavy goods back and forth in the cold for her, she is remarkably chipper. She previously worked in customer facing roles in finance and had her own dog grooming business, but she loves now being a milkwoman. This is Money assistant editor and consumer journalist, Lee Boyce, writes his Consumer Trends column every Saturday. It ranges from food and drink and retail, to financial services and travel.  Have an idea or suggestion? Get in touch: lee.boyce@thisismoney.co.uk  Her shift starts at the distribution centre, where she loads her own vehicle.  A handheld device tells her how many products she'll need and highlights the new first-time customers, so she can give them a welcome pack. All of its milk is British and sourced from a network of around 1,700 farms. After about an hour, she begins her round.  When she first started, she was buddied up with someone who showed her the round.  In this way, it is still quite old-fashioned - no fancy navigation apps to help. She accepts that at first it was a little galling - many of the homes she delivers to are without numbers, only names - and in the depths of winter, the elements can make it tricky. 'It's definitely far nicer in the summer,' she laughs. One story that pops up, when I probes whether she sees any unusual habits in the small hours, is how she became friends with a 90-something customer. 'Last year, she stayed up to watch the partial eclipse,' Nina explains. 'I didn't know that, but when I made my usual drop at 3am, I saw her conservatory light on and heard a dog barking, which was quite out of the ordinary.  'After a while, you get a sense for these things. 'I decided to peer in and the customer was on the floor, waving to get my attention.  'I went in and helped her up - she'd had a fall and couldn't get up.  'We've stay in touch via text and I always say hello when I deliver now.' Nothing quite that dramatic happens in the wee hours on the streets of Essex when I'm with Nina, but I am mesmerised by the tranquility of empty roads and an odd sense of accomplishment dropping off milk bottles, safe in the knowledge happy punters will be consuming it once they rise. Almost all customers leave their empty bottles out to be recycled. And that's Nina's last job.  As the sun rises, she takes the vehicle back and drops the empties off to be washed and sterilised. As I drive home with a milk-themed Spotify playlist - Milkshake by Kelis, Milk and Alcohol by Dr Feelgood and that infamous Benny Hill number - I look forward to that first sip of milky coffee and warmth of bed. I'm not sure I'm cut out to be the fastest milkman in the East - but it appears plenty more Ernie's and Nina's will be needed to keep up with the fast growing boom. 
