{ By Carly Johnson For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:29, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8029963/Chloe-Sevigny-flaunts-bare-baby-bump-cropped-blouse-trip-Museum-Modern-Art.html }
Chloe Sevigny, 45, is currently expecting her first born child with her boyfriend Sinisa Mackovic. And the actress appeared to equate her burgeoning baby bump to a work of art as she posed before a few Rita Ackermann paintings at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. Sevigny, who shared the snapshots on Instagram, let her bare bump slip out from under a cropped black blouse as she promoted Ackermann's latest gallery. Sevigny rocked a visibly bare face during her museum trip with her signature blonde tresses neatly parted in the middle and swept aside.  She completed her all black ensemble with a puffer coat, flared low-rise pants, and a pair of weather appropriate boots.  In the first shot, the Love And Friendship star posed from the side, giving her nearly 1million Instagram followers a view of how much her stomach has grown since her big announcement in January. With a warm smirk wiped across her face, Sevigny placed her hands on her hips and positioned herself in front of a large piece of artwork.   In the second shot, Chloe showed off her quirky side by slinging her black coat over her shoulder and puckering up for the camera.  The actress has been with her baby daddy Sinisa for over a year and he happens to be the director of Karma Art Gallery in the East Village. The couple have opted for a private romance, which means they are rarely photographed together.  But the art director did join Sevigny in early January during their most public display yet. The couple stepped out on the streets of New York with Sevigny donning a red fitted dress that accentuated her bump. In the snapshots, the American Horror Story actress can be seen cradling her stomach and planting numerous kisses on Sinisa before an array of eager shutterbugs.  Chloe had recently wrapped filming her upcoming HBO mini-series We Are Who We Are when news of her pregnancy broke.  On January 30, nearly an entire month after her shocking pregnancy reveal, Sevigny  posted an Instagram bikini snap taken on a Turks And Caicos beach with her belly on full display.  In the past, the actress has often expressed her disinterest in having children, so her change of heart came as a shock to fans. During an interview with W Magazine in 2015, Sevigny stated that her youthful appearance was directly correlated to the fact she had abstained from having children.  'I think it’s not having had a baby yet,' answered Chloe. 'Because I think the baby wear and tear and stress on your body is part of the reason why people say: "Why do you still look so young?"' Chloe added: 'I really think that that unfortunately ages women, especially when they have children in their 30s, not in their 20s.'  
