{ By Snejana Farberov For Dailymail.com and Associated Press   Published:  18:15, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8029775/Police-identify-extremely-dangerous-suspect-wanted-executing-three-men-cemetery.html }
Authorities in California are on the hunt for an 'armed and very dangerous' previously deported man who is believed to have executed three men in a cemetery this week. The three men — Perris residents Jaime Covarrubias Espindola, 50; Jose Maria Aguilar-Espejel, 38 and Rodrigo Aguilar-Espejel, 28 — were killed at the same time. Their bodies were found Monday in the grass at the Perris Valley Cemetery east of Los Angeles. Riverside County Sheriff Chad Bianco said at a news conference there is a felony warrant out for the arrest of Jose Luis Torres Garcia, 33, with $3million bail. Bianco did not say how the men were killed. 'We do not know his motive,' Bianco said. The sheriff said Garcia acted alone and he knew the three victims. They were discovered in a cemetery near the grave of a man who had been tortured and murdered in Mexico in December 2019.  Officials have not said who the grave belonged to, or whether a relationship existed between that person and the recent victims.  Scroll down for video  'We don’t believe this was a random killing,' Bianco said. 'A regular, normal resident of Perris should not have anything to be afraid of.' The sheriff said Garcia has ties to San Jose, California, and Mexico. He has been deported twice. But authorities have not yet determined his current immigration status.  There are already two misdemeanor warrants out for his arrest regarding other cases involving a DUI in Riverside County and drug-related offenses in San Mateo County. He is also known as Jose Torres Garcia, Jose Luis Torres, Ismael Garcia and Ismael Garcia Gutierrez. Bianco said he is believed to be driving a 2001 GMC Yukon SUV or a motorcycle street bike that is possibly a green Kawasaki. Bianco has said detectives were looking into whether the location of the homicides was meant to send a message and whether a cartel or a gang was involved. But on Thursday he said no links to a cartel have been established. Detectives have reviewed surveillance camera footage throughout the city and interviewed people who knew the victims.  Garcia is described as 5 feet, 9 inches tall, and weighing 180lbs, with black hair and brown eyes. He is known to drive a dark-blue 2001 GMC Yukon with license plate number 4PDH363, as well as a green street bike that may be a Kawasaki.  Univision reported that the elaborately decorated grave where the three bodies were discovered belonged to a man who was slain in Michoacan, Mexico, on December 20.  Riverside Press-Enterprise reported that the burial site where the three bodies were found was festooned with hearts, balloons and a crucifix.     Detectives from Riverside have been in contact with Mexican authorities, the sheriff said.   According to a Tuesday press release from the agency, deputies from the Perris Station responded to the 900 Block of North Perris Boulevard at around 10.30am Monday after a report of three men laying unresponsive on a burial plot.  The trio of victims were found suffering from unspecified injuries.  Aerial footage from CBS Los Angeles and still photos taken at the scene showed the victims’ bodies laying in the grass amid bouquet of flowers and Valentine's Day balloons.   Witnesses reported seeing one of the victims hunched other, another laying face down and the third wrapped in something resembling a sleeping bag, according to KTLA5. Two of the bodies were next to one another, possibly on top of a grave marker, and the third was a short distance away.   Detectives from the Central Homicide Unit were called to the cemetery and took over the homicide investigation.  'This appears to be an isolated incident and there is no perceived threat to the public,' the press release stated.     Perris Mayor Michael Vargas released a statement saying he was 'heartbroken by the horrific crimes that have taken place today.'  
