{ By Tracy Wright For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:14, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8029651/Kristen-Bell-bundles-vibrant-coat-plaid-ensemble-celebrate-Hello-Bello-anniversary.html }
She's known for her comedic timing as a leading actress in films and also on television.  And Kristen Bell was celebrating another career milestone as she stepped out for an appearance on Friday's episode of Good Morning America. The 39-year-old star was ready for business in a plaid ensemble before changing it up with a vibrant green outfit while boasting about her plant-based baby product company, Hello Bello. Kristen looked impossibly chic in a red plaid coat paired with matching trousers as she made her way into the studios in Manhattan. She teamed her fashionable ensemble with a black turtleneck top to complement a pair of black heels, which also matched her DeMellier London handbag. The Frozen sensation wore her bright blonde hair parted down the middle with tendrils resting across her shoulders.  She later changed into a gorgeous green dress with a matching coat to keep her warm in the brisk East Coast weather.  Bell admitted that creating Hello Bello with her husband, Dax Shepherd, has been 'one of the most incredible experiences of my life.' 'It came out of this idea that we are both from Michigan, we lived on a really tight budget and now we can go to any LA boutique and buy all these fancy products that are good for kids,' she said.  'We don't look at the price tag and we were like "this doesn't seem very fair."' The affordable range of baby products includes everything from diapers to personal care and laundry detergent, with an impressive line of vitamins for children and adults.  'There are a lot of people doing great work in the baby space, but we wanted to create a diapers and product company where people didn't have to choose between their baby or their budget,' Bell said. Kristen has reveled in the chance to work alongside her husband of six years on a passion project that has turned into a top name brand which has given away more than one million diapers to 80 different organizations.  'Every time I work with my husband, it's wonderful ... well it's turbulent and then wonderful,' she said.  To celebrate the milestone for their business endeavor, Hello Bello is hosting a massive giveaway and offering a full, free package of diapers to new and expecting parents in the United States and Canada with just $1 in shipping costs. While she enjoys working with her husband she doesn't know if they were meant to be.  While discussing her character Eleanor on The Good Place, she hopped onto the topic of soulmates and wasn't sure where she fell on the subject.  Speaking on Build Series, she said 'I think it’s who you choose to make it work with, I don’t think you could ever find your soulmate if you’re not ready. I don’t know if I think soulmates exist.' She added: 'If I had met my husband five years earlier, no way. We’d be a tabloid headline. We met at the time when we were both evolving into a place where it was "Okay, what are the outcomes I want in my life?"…I think you have to go through your own personal evolution to get there.' The couple began dating in late 2007 and announced their engagement in 2010, before tying the knot in 2013. They welcomed daughters Lincoln in 2013 and Delta in 2014.   
