{ By Snejana Farberov For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:58, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8026459/Middle-school-teacher-corrected-student-proper-way-say-N-word.html }
A Kentucky father is outraged after he says a teacher at his son's middle school corrected another student on the proper way to pronounce the 'N-word' when it was used as an insult addressed to his son. Patrick Alcorn told WKYT that he has learned that a verbal argument broke out between his son and another child at Garrard County Middle School earlier this month. According to the father, who is African-American, the other student called his son the N-word during the dispute, and a teacher overheard it and proceeded to correct the child's pronunciation of the racial slur. Alcorn said the teacher told the student insulting his son: ‘you're saying it incorrectly, this is how you say it.' In a brief phone interview with DailyMail.com on Thursday, Interim School Superintendent Ronald ‘Sonny’ Fentress said the teacher in question is 'Caucasian.' Alcorn said hours later, he received a phone call from his son's school about the incident, which was corroborated by his son. The father then met with Fentress to discuss the situation, which led to an internal investigation into the teacher’s conduct. A week later, the school district’s attorney recommended that a letter of reprimand be placed in the teacher’s permanent personnel file. Fentress told DailyMail.com that the teacher, who has worked at the school for 21 years, is protected from being fired by state tenure laws, and there is only so much the district can do to discipline her under these conditions. The teacher, who has not been named, did send a letter of apology to Alcon and his wife. In it, she wrote in part that she heard the slur in her classroom and 'repeated it unthoughtfully without thinking first.' The teacher insisted that it was not her intention to offend anyone and assured the Alcorn family that 'it will never happen again.' But the student’s father tells the local station that he thinks the apology and the letter of reprimand are unsatisfactory. Alcorn would like either to meet with the teacher in order to explain to her the impact that using the racial slur can have on people, or for her to donate a portion of her salary to the National Negro College Fund. When asked if the teacher would be willing to consider either one of those options, Fentress told DailyMail.com: 'I cannot speak for her.'  
