{ By Ted Thornhill, Mailonline Travel Editor and Alice Murphy For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  11:34, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//travel/travel_news/article-8041843/Ipswich-named-UKs-emerging-destination-2020-TripAdvisor-Travellers-Choice-Awards.html }
TripAdvisor has revealed the winners of the 2020 Travellers' Choice Destination awards – and Ipswich has been named as the UK's top 'emerging destination'. The Suffolk town is the only British destination in the global ranking for this category. It comes 14th in the list, with Kaliningrad in Russia in the top spot, followed by Saranda in Albania, Beirut, Luxor and Naoussa in Greece. TripAdvisor defines emerging destinations as being 'ahead of the curve', places that 'smart travellers are already saving to their "Trips" on TripAdvisor'. In short, they're up-and-coming hotspots. TripAdvisor spokesperson Emma Shaw says that Ipswich has an awful lot going for it. She said: 'Our Tripadvisor travellers have spoken – Ipswich has been named one to watch and the only UK destination to make the global list of Emerging destinations. 'With superb transport links, an excellent range of accommodation options – including the new luxury Salthouse Harbour Hotel, which is currently ranked the No1 hotel in Ipswich [on TripAdvisor] - an ever-growing list of theatres, dance houses and things to, Ipswich is attracting some well-deserved traveller attention. 'With future development plans for the St Peter's Dock area of the waterfront, as well as the ongoing regeneration of the town centre, the future for Ipswich as a global tourism hotspot is exciting.' The allaboutipswich.com website describes the town as having a 'cutting edge dance and theatre scene', 'over 1,000 years of maritime heritage' and a 'vibrant community of indie shops, waterfront bars and cosy pubs'. 1. Kaliningrad, Russia 2. Saranda, Albania 3. Beirut, Lebanon 4. Luxor, Egypt 5. Naoussa, Greece 6. Rugen Island, Germany 7. Phu Quoc Island, Vietnam 8. Monopoli, Italy 9. La Paz, Mexico 10. Curaçao, Caribbean 11. Ile d'Oleron, France 12. Guayaquil, Ecuador 13. Tulsa, United States 14. Ipswich, United Kingdom 15. Franschhoek, South Africa 16. Tangier, Morocco 17. Takamatsu, Japan 18. Cala d'Or, Spain 19. Petropolis, Brazil 20. Antwerp, Belgium 21. Mirissa, Sri Lanka 22. Alvor, Portugal 23. Winnipeg, Canada 24. Darwin, Australia 25. Agra, India Source: TripAdvisor  The attractions it recommends include the New Wolsey Theatre, DanceEast - which hosts 'premieres of internationally acclaimed choreographers' - the Ipswich Regent theatre, the Tudor Christchurch Mansion, Alton Water for cycling, fishing and walking, and the Saints area of the town for 'unique shops'. TripAdvisor says that top-ranked Kaliningrad, a tiny sliver of Russia between the Baltic Sea, Poland and Lithuania, is a 'stunning city that blends the culture and architecture of Eastern Europe and Russia like nowhere else'. The awards also named the top trending destinations. Those that have seen the biggest spikes in positive reviews and ratings over the past year. Top of this ranking is Kochi in India, followed by Luzon in the Philippines (2nd), Porto (3rd), Porto Seguro in Brazil (4th), Gramado in Brazil (5th), Lombok in Indonesia (6th), Da Nang in Vietnam (7th), Zakynthos in Greece (8th), Tel Aviv, Israel (9th), and Krakow, Poland (10th). The highest-ranked trending destination in the UK is Edinburgh at No.23. Renowned for its heritage, culture and festivals, the Scottish capital is enjoying some serious love from global travellers, says TripAdvisor. It says: 'Take a long walk around the centre to explore the World Heritage Sites of the Old Town and New Town, as well as all the city's museums and galleries. Then stop for a delicious meal made from fresh Scottish produce before heading out to take in one of Edinburgh's many events - including the famous summer festivals of culture, or the Winter Festivals of music, light and ceilidhs.'  1. KOCHI, INDIA A blending of small, ancient villages along India's southwestern coast created modern-day Kochi. It's where sunset strolls, dining on fresh fish from seaside vendors and boat rides through the islands offshore are all part of the charm. While visitors to India traditionally prioritised trips to better-known cities like Delhi and Mumbai, seasoned travellers are now venturing to Kochi for its vibrant cafes, art galleries and historic colonial sites, including beautiful Portuguese-built churches and forts. 2. LUZON, PHILIPPINES The northern region of Luzon boasts landscape and biodiversity like nowhere on earth, prompting travellers to journey to the largest island in the Philippines for a truly unique holiday experience. Luzon is home to Manila, the country's bustling capital, but its the scenery of vast mountains, rain forests, miles-long beaches and coral reefs that draw the crowds. 3. PORTO, PORTUGAL Set on the Douro River in northern Portugal, Porto is one of the oldest cities in Europe with many of its buildings declared UNESCO World Heritage Sites in 1996. Filled with twisting cobbled streets, the 600-year-old Sao Francisco Church and some of the world's finest wine cellars, it's fast becoming the number one city break for European travellers. 4. PORTO SEGURO, BRAZIL With 55 miles of white sand beaches, it's little wonder wanderers are increasingly drawn to Porto Seguro in the state of Bahia, northeastern Brazil. Colourful architecture, affordable restaurants and accommodation and a quaint town centre are some of the draw cards, along with the pristine Porto Seguro beach. The beach is close to a port where you can catch the ferry to Arraial d'Ajuda, an idyllic holiday resort just over 35 minutes away. 5. GRAMADO, BRAZIL As Brazil continues to shed its reputation as an 'off the beaten track' destination, a growing number of travellers are venturing inland to explore the mountains instead of the vibrant coastline. Gramado, a mountain resort in Brazil's southernmost state, Rio Grande do Sul, looks like it could have been plucked from a Bavarian Alpine town, having been settled by German colonists in the 19th century. 6. LOMBOK, INDONESIA Bali will always be beloved by world travellers, but Lombok is quickly taking the spotlight as Indonesia's most popular destination. It offers a more laid back atmosphere with fewer crowds than nearby Bali, which is just a short boat ride away. Home to immaculate beaches, hiking trails to waterfalls and volcanoes and world-class diving spots, Lombok has something to suit every taste. 7. DA NANG, VIETNAM Halfway between the major cities of Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City is Da Nang, a coastal city in central Vietnam which has swiftly become a favourite among backpackers and luxury lovers alike. Despite a sudden increase in direct international flights, Da Nang remains largely affordable for travellers of all budgets. It's an easy spot to get into the local groove with a cooking class, an off-roading adventure or a relaxing massage at one of the city's many spas. 8. ZAKYNTHOS, GREECE The Greek island of Zakynthos has sustained its reputation as one of the world's most idyllic holiday destinations for decades. Sitting in the middle of the Ionian Sea, the island has a quieter and more romantic atmosphere than many of its Greek counterparts with crystal clear waters and stunning scenery. It's an island 'tailor-made for serious relaxation', according to reviewers on TripAdvisor. 9. TEL AVIV, ISRAEL From nightlife and history to food and world-class best beaches, Tel Aviv is a city of many talents and hidden attractions. Widely hailed as the number one party destination in the Middle East, the city on Israel's Mediterranean coast is filled with white stone buildings, bustling bars and some of the world's most respected museums. 10. KRAKOW, POLAND The historic city of Krakow in southern Poland is enjoying a moment as one of Europe's most popular weekend getaways. Surrounded by ancient walls, the centre of the city is home to a stunning Jewish quarter and an expansive market square lifted straight from a fairy tale. Krakow offers gourmet dining and fine wine at a fraction of the cost of other major European cities. A short drive will take you to must-see historical sites including the Wieliczka Salt Mine and the Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial Museum.  
