middle east
{ By Chantalle Edmunds For Mailonline   Published:  16:05, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8025061/Stranger-throws-hot-chocolate-BBC-journalist-moments-went-live-air.html }
Police are investigating an attack on a BBC journalist in Brighton just moments before she went on air yesterday. BBC South East political editor Lauren Moss shared her experience on Twitter and said she was 'shaken up' by the experience.   Moss said: 'A member of the public threw a cup of hot chocolate at me and screamed abuse about how he hates the BBC, literally moments before I went on air for BBC South East this lunchtime.' Police said the incident took place around 1.30pm at Royal Pavilion Gardens in Brighton. The incident comes as the Government contemplates the future of the licence-fee funding model.  Ms Moss came away unscathed but said she was lucky the hot drink hit her coat and not her face. 'Luckily I wasn't hurt, nor was the cameraman, but I was shaken up and it could've been worse,' she said. 'Someone may not approve of my work or who I work for but I am a journalist just doing my job. Anti-media feeling like this is very concerning for anyone in the industry,' Ms Moss added.    Ms Moss received hundreds of messages of support from colleagues and followers. Her BBC colleague Marcella Whittingdale replied: 'You were so amazing - we had no idea until we came off air and were told by the editor what had happened moments before your report.'   BBC Middle East editor Jeremy Bowen said: 'Blame those who are inciting hostility to media and particularly the BBC.'  BBC journalist and media analyst Alistair Coleman added: 'I've spent a media news career documenting assaults on journalists around the globe, and it brings despair to see it happening in this country.'  Shadow Culture Secretary Tracy Brabin said: 'I hope you're ok. No one should be abused doing their job. We must challenge any narrative – wherever it comes from – that the BBC is some sort of enemy within.'    Jody Doherty-Cove, a reporter at the Brighton Argus newspaper, responded: 'Awful to face that just for doing your job.' Chief Superintendent Nick May, of Sussex Police, wrote: 'Lauren. Please do report this incident to Sussex Police. Online via our website or via 101. 'This is totally unacceptable in Brighton or anywhere and is an assault.'   Lauren Moss said she was grateful for the support she'd received after posting about the incident.  'Thank you all very much for your kind messages of support. Luckily I wasn't hurt, nor was the cameraman, but I was shaken up and it could've been worse. I think it is important to raise this and discuss it though as a wider issue and concern for all journalists. Thanks again.' A BBC spokesperson said: 'Nothing is more important than the safety of our staff. This has been reported to the police.' Sussex police said enquiries are ongoing and urged anyone who witnessed the incident to report it online or call 101. The Government is already consulting on proposals to decriminalise non-payment of the licence fee, with ministers suggesting it could be abolished altogether when the BBC's charter comes up for renewal in 2027.  It's been claimed that Boris Johnson disagrees with top aide Dominic Cummings over plans to scrap the BBC licence fee, with the PM favouring a 'reform rather than revolution' approach when it comes to the future of the corporation. He is less keen on abandoning the fee than his chief aide Mr Cummings, according to the Times. Mr Cummings is said to be 'ideological' about replacing the fee with a voluntary subscription system.   
