{ By Associated Press   Published:  14:09, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8025049/A-Week-Pictures-Middle-East.html }
CAIRO (AP) - This photo gallery highlights some of the most compelling images made or published by Associated Press photographers in the Middle East, Afghanistan & Pakistan region Feb. 13-19, 2020. This week's selection includes protests in Baghdad; rescue workers and volunteers at the site of a suicide bombing in Quetta; Turkish soldiers firing a missile at Syrian government positions in Idlib province; the 40-day commemoration of the death of Iranian Revolutionary Guard Gen. Qassem Soleimani in a southern suburb of Beirut; prayers at the Western Wall in Jerusalem in search of divine intervention to help stave off infectious diseases, including the coronavirus; a health worker giving a polio vaccine to a child in Lahore, Pakistan; Ivanka Trump at the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque in the United Arab Emirates and an election campaign billboard for the Blue and White party, the opposition party led by Benny Gantz in Ramat Gan. The gallery was curated by AP Middle East Deputy News Director for Photography and Storytelling Dusan Vranic and photographer Maya Alleruzzo. Follow AP visual journalism: Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/apnews Pakistani rescue workers and volunteers help to remove victims at the site of a suicide bombing in Quetta, Pakistan, Monday, Feb. 17, 2020. The powerful bomb killed a few people and wounded dozen others in Pakistan's restive Baluchistan province local police said, when it struck an Islamist rally in the regional capital. (AP Photo/Arshad Butt) AP Images on Twitter: http://twitter.com/AP_Images AP Images blog: http://apimagesblog.com Security forces fire tear gas during clashes with protesters in Baghdad, Iraq, Tuesday, Feb. 18, 2020. Mass anti-government protests erupted on October 1 last year, when thousands of Iraqis took to the streets in Baghdad and the predominately Shiite provinces in southern Iraq to decry rampant government corruption, poor services and lack of employment. (AP Photo/Hadi Mizban) Pakistani volunteers remove a victim at the site of suicide bombing in Quetta, Pakistan, Monday, Feb. 17, 2020. A powerful suicide bombing killed few people and wounded dozen others in Pakistan's restive Baluchistan province on Monday, local police said, when it struck an Islamist rally in the regional capital. (AP Photo/Arshad Butt) An young injured protester receives first aid during clashes with security forces in Baghdad, Iraq, Tuesday, Feb. 18, 2020. Mass anti-government protests erupted on October 1 last year, when thousands of Iraqis took to the streets in Baghdad and the predominately Shiite provinces in southern Iraq to decry rampant government corruption, poor services and lack of employment. (AP Photo/Hadi Mizban) Turkish soldiers fire a missile at Syrian government position in the province of Idlib, Syria, Friday, Feb. 14, 2020. Turkey, backer of Syria's opposition, has been deploying equipment and troops in the region, which is home to more than 3 million people, in an attempt to halt the Syrian military's advances. (AP Photo/Ghaith Alsayed) A Hezbollah supporter holds pictures of slain Iranian Revolutionary Guard Gen. Qassem Soleimani during a ceremony marking the anniversary of the assassination of Hezbollah leaders, Abbas al-Moussawi, Ragheb Harb and Imad Mughniyeh and the end of a 40-day Muslim mourning period for Soleimani, in the southern suburb of Beirut, Lebanon, Sunday, Feb. 16, 2020. Nasrallah said U.S. President Donald Trump declared war on the Middle East when the U.S. assassinated Soleimani and when the White House announced its plan to end the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. He called on all to resist U.S. influence and its troops presence. (AP Photo/Hassan Ammar) A health worker gives a polio vaccine to a child at a school in Lahore, Pakistan, Monday, Feb. 17, 2020. Pakistan government launched an anti-polio vaccination campaign in an effort to eradicate the crippling disease affected children. (AP Photo/K.M. Chaudary) Jews pray at the Western Wall, the holiest site where Jews can pray in Jerusalem's Old City, Sunday, Feb. 16, 2020. As concerns over the coronavirus's spread rise, Jewish faithful held a prayer session Sunday at the wall in search of divine intervention to help stave off contagious disease. (AP Photo/Ariel Schalit) Ivanka Trump, the daughter and senior adviser to U.S. President Donald Trump visits the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, Saturday, Feb. 15, 2020. Ivanka Trump will deliver keynote address at Global Women's Forum in Dubai tomorrow. (AP Photo/Kamran Jebreili) People walk on a bridge under an election campaign billboard for the Blue and White party, the opposition party led by Benny Gantz, left, in Ramat Gan, Israel, Tuesday, Feb. 18, 2020. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of the Likud party is pictured at right. (AP Photo/Oded Balilty) 
