middle east
{ By Nic White In Brisbane and Brittany Chain For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  09:09, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8023739/Mourners-break-scene-Brisbane-quadruple-murder-suicide-pay-tribute-four-lives-lost.html }
Devastated friends of a mother who died alongside her three children at the hands of their suicidal father broke down in tears at the scene of the unspeakable act of evil. Flowers and gifts have been turned into a makeshift shrine on Raven Street, in Camp Hill, Brisbane, after Rowan Baxter slaughtered his entire family there on Wednesday by torching a car with his children and wife inside.  One of Hannah Clarke's devastated friends visited the scene on Thursday afternoon. She slumped to her knees and cried next to the growing pile of floral tributes on the scorched grass. 'At least she's with her babies. They didn't deserve this,' she said.  The woman was so overwhelmed with grief she couldn't stand for 10 minutes.  Nearby, her three children watched their mother's anguish, the oldest carrying the youngest, all too you to understand. The family was supported by anti-suicide charity Lifeline volunteers who maintained a presence all day to support mourners and shellshocked neighbours who saw Wednesday's chaos. She was one of dozens of mourners who arrived on Thursday to pay their respects to Ms Clarke and her children - Aaliyah, six, Laianah, four, and Trey, three. All three children burned to death in the horrific attack. Ms Clarke survived the initial blast but died hours later in hospital. Baxter stabbed himself in the chest at the scene, but waited long enough to make sure his children remained trapped inside.   The memorial offers a stark contrast to the desolate property where Baxter spent his final weeks.  Just 3km away, the Carindale red-brick where the couple once lived with their children still has remnants of the well-loved family home it once was. A trampoline and toys are scattered across the backyard still, despite the children leaving weeks ago.  Similarly, a little girl's Aaliyah Frozen-themed bed cover still hung on the clothes line. Neighbours told Daily Mail Australia it had been there for weeks. Before the separation, neighbours described a happy family, with the sounds of the children playing in the backyard often filling the air.  'They seemed like a nice happy family. He was always polite and said hello,' one said.  'We would see them walk the kids to school and daycare up the road.'  Since the split, Ms Clarke had set her sights on the future and told friends and family she was looking forward to the year ahead. Earlier on Thursday, about 40 mourners gathered to pay tribute to the life Ms Clarke had dreamed of, which was tragically cut short.  Standing in a semi-circle holding flowers and tributes, they cried and embraced each other before taking turns to add to the growing memorial. 'We love you, we'll miss you, you've got a great family here,' one man said to the crowd. 'Your legacy will continue through our actions and behaviours, our happiness and how we care for our little ones. Rest in peace, Hannah.' Mourners, who showed up as a group after a social media call by former members of the couple's gym Integr8, which shut down after they split, were mostly too upset to talk. 'I only saw her on Tuesday at the school. I didn't know how to tell the kids what happened,' one woman said. A family friend spoke of how good a parent Ms Clarke was to her kids. 'Hannah was a loving mum who adored her children and will be dearly missed,' she said. 'She was a beautiful person and we're all going to miss her.' Among the mourners was the Baxter family dog Savannah, an eight-year-old American staffie, who whimpered as distraught friends tried to comfort the animal and each other.   Savannah was the last member of the family to remain with Baxter after his wife left with their children in November. A neighbour said the dog was his only company as Baxter became reclusive and only saw his kids on a couple of weekends. The dog was left behind all alone at the former family home as he committed his cowardly murders. She was taken in by a trainer who worked at Rowan and Hannah Baxter's gym, and rushed to rescue the animal when he heard about the inferno In a sad Instagram post, Savannah is seen with two other dogs gazing towards the sky. 'She's made some new friends after losing everyone she loves,' family friend Dave Kramer, who is now caring for the Baxter's pet, said. 'I still don't want to believe it. As I wake up this morning with their family dog laying in my bed, I realize this isn't just a nightmare, and all I can do is lay here, cuddle her and cry.' Family killer Rowan Baxter uploaded a video to his Facebook page a year before he burned his entire family to death in a sick murder-suicide showing his middle daughter expressing her unconditional love for him. Baxter's 'little middle' Laianah scooped up her mother's phone to record a heartfelt message for her father while he was stuck at work.  'Hi Dad I miss you. I miss you at work,' the young girl said before appearing to struggle for control of the phone with her elder sister. 'I miss you so much and love you so, so much.'  Baxter wrote alongside the video: 'Found this on my wife's phone, my little middle missing her daddy at work.' 'Priceless words before the older one jumps in to take over then listen to @hannbaxter in the background. 'Classic Baxter household antics.' Little over a year later, he would kill Laianah, her two siblings and their mother in cold blood.   Lance Mergard, a chaplain from ChaplainWatch, spoke to some of the mourners afterwards, encouraging them to get help when they needed it 'This is a traumatic event for everybody, whether you knew them or didn't,' he said, choking back tears. 'Let people know they can survive, we don't want people ending up doing stupid things. I appreciate your emotion and response. I have no words. Care for yourself and care for each other.' Away from the big group, Ms Clarke's high school boyfriend Lee Fry walked to a memorial to pay his respects. 'Hannah was a great girl, really smart and never judgmental. She didn't judge me and I was really nerdy in school,' he said. 'The first movie we ever watched together was Along Came Polly, I still remember that. I'll have to watch it again this weekend. 'I still have a teddy she gave me, too.' Mr Fry said he had hoped to have a get together with school friends he hadn't seen in years, including Ms Clarke. 'We will be next week as terrible circumstances have brought us together,' he said. 'This shouldn't have happened.' In the moments after the attack, Baxter attempted to limit the help any of the bystanders could offer his children. As Ms Clarke desperately tried to put out the flames on her body, she repeatedly screamed: 'My children are in the car', witnesses reported. Meanwhile Baxter was busy trying to keep help at bay, 'going crazy' and telling residents he wanted his family to die. 'He was so angry and just going absolutely crazy... he wanted [the car] to burn,' witness Aaron Snell told News Corp.  For 24/7 confidential support, contact Lifeline on 13 11 14  Despite putting up a happy front on social media, Queensland Police officers were called to a family violence incident that allegedly involved the couple just last month, the Courier Mail reported.  But neighbours said they never heard any fights or either of the couple ever even yelling at their children.  Behind closed doors, the couple were having relationship issues.   In a moving Facebook post on Thursday morning, Ms Clarke's brother Nathaniel Clarke described the killer as a 'heartless monster' and revealed his parents had funded his sister's custody battle. 'My mum and dad have given every little thing they own to help my sister try and get away from this monster,' he wrote.  JANUARY, 2020 Queensland Police officers are called to a family violence incident that allegedly involved the couple. WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 19 - EARLY MORNING: Rowan Charles Baxter, 42, is spotted filling a jerry can with fuel at a local service station.  8.20AM:    Baxter dives into his estranged wife Hannah Clarke's white Kia Sportage as she was preparing to do the school drop off on Raven Street, Camp Hill, a wealthy suburb of Brisbane. He douses Ms Clarke, 31, and their three children - Aaliyah, six, Laianah, four, and Trey, three - in petrol and sets the car alight.  Neighbours hear an explosion which sounded like a 'gas bottle' blast. At least four explosions followed.  Baxter grabs a knife from the SUV and stabs himself in the chest. He tries to stop neighbours from saving his wife and children before dying in the street. Ms Clarke escapes the burning car and screams: 'He's poured petrol on me.'  Horrified witnesses see her skin peeling off her body. One heroic neighbour hoses her down in an attempt to save her life and suffers burns himself.  She is rushed to Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital in a critical condition.    WEDNESDAY NIGHT: Ms Clarke dies in hospital from the horrendous burns she suffered in the quadruple murder suicide.   
