{ By Cassie Carpenter For Dailymail.com   Published:  07:56, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8023737/Kourtney-Kardashian-black-leather-cowgirl-Western-wear-family-dinner-Glendale.html }
She always manages to look effortlessly chic.  And Kourtney Kardashian didn't dissapoint as she headed to a taping of David Letterman's Netflix talk show in Los Angeles on Wednesday. The 40-year-old Poosh founder channeled her inner cowgirl in an all leather ensemble to watch her brother-in-law Kanye West film an interview with Letterman on My Next Guest Needs No Introduction.    Kourtney wore a black leather Western-style blouse with matching pants, purse, and white booties selected by stylist Dani Michelle.  After the taping, Kardashian drove to Glendale where she dined on Middle-Eastern fare at Carousel Restaurant with her family. The Calabasas socialite was joined for dinner by her momager Kris Jenner and younger sisters Khloé Kardashian and Kim Kardashian West.  Kourtney spent last weekend relaxing up North in Montecito, which is located near Santa Barbara. Kardashian - who boasts 127M followers - shared vacation snaps of her seven-year-old daughter Penelope Scotland Disick and her long-haired five-year-old son Reign Aston Disick.  Not pictured in the half-Armenian beauty's Instagram post was her 10-year-old son Mason from her nine-year on/off relationship with Talentless CEO Scott Disick. Kourtney finally split with her 36-year-old babydaddy in 2015 after he was caught on camera canoodling stylist Chloé Bartoli in the South of France. On November 7, Kardashian teased quitting her E! reality show after 13 years, telling ET: 'I've just decided to spend more time as a mom and put more of my energy there, but I'm not saying goodbye.' However, the University of Arizona grad has since been photographed in Long Beach on December 19 filming scenes for the 18th season of KUWTK.   'No, well, first of all, not necessarily [is Kourtney leaving the show]. I think Kourtney kind of has boundaries, which is totally understandable,' Kourt's half-sister Kendall Jenner said on the January 31st episode of The Ellen Show. 'I've always kind of not let my personal life entirely on the show so it's just kind of always been a thing for me, but then with Kourtney, she did at one point let her personal life be on the show and so now it's a bit more shift, I guess, for everyone to understand. 'But no, I don't think she's fully confirmed to not be on the show. Let's just say it gets a little crazier before it gets any better, and there's some pretty crazy things that happen.'   
