{ By Associated Press   Published:  11:18, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8041901/Egypt-state-TV-Ex-President-Mubarak-died-91.html }
CAIRO (AP) - Hosni Mubarak, the Egyptian leader who was the autocratic face of stability in the Middle East for nearly 30 years before being forced from power in an Arab Spring uprising, died Tuesday, state-run TV announced. He was 91. Mubarak was a stalwart U.S. ally, a bulwark against Islamic militancy and guardian of Egypt's peace with Israel. But to the hundreds of thousands of young Egyptians who rallied for 18 days of unprecedented street protests in Cairo's Tahrir Square and elsewhere in 2011, Mubarak was a latter-day pharaoh and a symbol of autocratic misrule. His overthrow, however, plunged the country into years of chaos and uncertainty, and set up a power struggle between the military and the Muslim Brotherhood group that he had long outlawed. Some two and a half years after Mubarak's ouster, Abdel Fattah el-Sissi led the military overthrow of Egypt's first freely elected president and rolled back freedoms gained in the 2011 uprising. State TV said Mubarak died at a Cairo hospital where he had undergone an unspecified surgery. The report said he had health complications but offered no other details. One of his sons, Alaa, announced over the weekend that the former president was in an intensive care after undergoing surgery. El-Sissi offered condolences and praised Mubarak's service during the 1973 war with Israel but made no mention of Mubarak's almost three-decade rule as president of the most populous Arab state. He announced three days of national mourning beginning Wednesday. "The Presidency mourns with great sorrow the former President of the Republic, Mr. Mohammed Hosni Mubarak," he said in a statement. It referred to Mubarak as "one of the leaders and heroes of the glorious October war, as he assumed command of the Air Force during the war that restored dignity and pride to the Arab nation." FILE - In this April 2, 2008 file photo, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak looks attends a meeting at the Presidential palace, in Cairo, Egypt. Egypt state TV said Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020. that the country's former President Hosni Mubarak, ousted in the 2011 uprising, has died at 91. (AP Photo/Amr Nabil, File) Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu expressed "deep sorrow" over Mubarak큦 death. "President Mubarak, a personal friend of mine, was a leader who guided his people to peace and security, to peace with Israel," Netanyahu said. Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas said Mubarak "spent his life serving his homeland and the issues of righteousness and justice in the world, with the issue of our Palestinian people at the top of them." Saudi Arabia's King Salman, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and the United Arab Emirates also released statements offering condolences and mourning Mubarak. U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Gutteres sent condolences to the government and Mubarak큦 family, U.N. spokesman Stephane Dujarric said. Guterres said Mubarak "played an important role in diplomatic efforts throughout the Middle East, including in promoting peace between Israelis and Palestinians and supporting the endeavors by the League of Arab States to end conflict in the region." Born in May 1928, Mubarak was vice president on Oct. 6, 1981, when his mentor, President Anwar Sadat, was assassinated by Islamic extremists while reviewing a military parade. Seated next to Sadat, Mubarak escaped with a minor hand injury as gunmen sprayed the reviewing stand with bullets. Eight days later, the brawny former air force commander was sworn in as president, promising continuity and order. Over the next three decades, as the region was convulsed by one crisis after another, Mubarak was seen as a steady hand and a reliable U.S. partner against Islamic extremism. He sent troops as part of the U.S.-led coalition in the 1990-1991 Gulf war and contributed to efforts to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Within Egypt he presided over slow but steady economic growth and largely kept the country out of armed conflicts after decades of war with Israel. Unlike his predecessors, both Sadat and Egypt's towering nationalist leader Gamal Abdel Nasser, Mubarak pursued no grand ideology beyond stability and economic development. Over the years, Mubarak tinkered with reform but shunned major change, presenting himself as Egypt's sole protection against Islamic militancy and sectarian division. The U.S., particularly under President George W. Bush, pressed for democratic reforms but was wary of alienating a key ally. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo extended condolences and said the U.S. will continue to work with the current government "to develop a better partnership with Egypt." Under Mubarak, the Muslim Brotherhood was banned but largely tolerated. All political power, however, was concentrated in the hands of Mubarak and his ruling party, and emergency laws imposed after Sadat's assassination remained in place for decades. Criticism of the president or the military was forbidden, Islamist and secular dissidents were regularly jailed, and the police were notoriously brutal and corrupt. Egyptian authorities - both then and now - argue that tough measures are needed to preserve stability in a volatile region. Islamic militants carried out several attacks on police, Christians and foreign tourists throughout Mubarak's rule, including an attempted assassination of the president himself during a visit to Ethiopia in 1995. The failure to fulfill repeated promises of change steadily deepened public despair. Those seeking a democratic future were dismayed to see Mubarak making apparent moves to groom his businessman son, Gamal Mubarak, for a dynastic succession. "At multiple points during Mubarak's reign, he had the opportunity to reform the Egyptian state," H.A. Hellyer, a scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, tweeted. "He didn't." The Jan. 25 uprising "didn't come out of nowhere - it was the result of many years of pent-up anger at how the state was failing the citizenry, save a tiny slice at the top," he added. Inspired by the first Arab Spring revolt in Tunisia, protesters took to the streets in January 2011. They harnessed the power of social media to muster tumultuous throngs, unleashing popular anger over the graft and brutality that shadowed Mubarak's rule. In the end, with millions massed in Tahrir Square and other city centers, and even marching to the doorstep of Mubarak's palace, his resignation was announced on Feb. 11, 2011. The generals took power, hoping to preserve what they could of the system he had led. Though Tunisia's president fell before him, the ouster of Mubarak was a watershed moment in the history of the region, and gave impetus to uprisings in Libya, Syria, Yemen and Bahrain. Over the next two years Egypt held a referendum on an amended constitution, as well as parliamentary and presidential elections. Turnout was high as enthusiastic Egyptians got their first taste of democracy. But the Muslim Brotherhood emerged victorious again and again, raising fears among their opponents that the country would be transformed into an Islamic state. The struggle came to a head in the summer of 2013, when the military removed President Mohammed Morsi, a senior Brotherhood figure, from power amid mass protests against his divisive rule. The military assumed power and launched an unprecedented crackdown on dissent. El-Sissi was elected president the following year. Rights groups and activists say his rule has proved far more oppressive than Mubarak's. "In a lot of ways, Mubarak큦 legacy will be mixed," said Steven A. Cook, a senior fellow in Middle Eastern studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. "Egyptians are taking stock of their abilities to voice their views on the state of their lives, and realizing they were safer doing that in 2010 than in 2020." Mubarak was jailed shortly after his overthrow and later relocated to a military hospital as he went on trial in an array of cases. The televised images of Mubarak on a stretcher in a defendant's cage were in sharp contrast to the portraits of the leader that had hung from billboards during his long rule. For the man who was long untouchable - even a word of criticism against him in the media was forbidden for much of his rule - prison was a shock. When he was flown from the court to Torah Prison in Cairo in 2011, he cried in protest and refused to get out of the helicopter. In June 2012, Mubarak and his security chief were sentenced to life in prison for failing to prevent the killing of some 900 protesters during the 18-day uprising. Both appealed the verdict and a higher court later cleared them in 2014. The following year, Mubarak and his two sons - wealthy businessman Alaa and Mubarak큦 one-time heir apparent Gamal - were sentenced to three years in prison on corruption charges during a retrial. The sons were released in 2015 for time served, while Mubarak walked free in 2017. Following his release, he was taken to an apartment in Cairo큦 Heliopolis district, where he lived until his death. Mubarak is survived by his wife, Suzanne, his two sons and four grandchildren. ___ Associated Press writers Isabel DeBre in Cairo and Joseph Krauss in Jerusalem contributed. FILE - In this March 13, 1996 file photo, Russian President Boris Yeltsin waves as he and (from left to right) Jordan's King Hussein, Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres, U.S. President Bill Clinton, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and far right, PLO Leader Yasser Arafat make their way up to pose for the group photo at the end of their one-day Summit for Peacemakers in Sharm el Sheikh, Egypt. Egypt's state TV said Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020, that the country's former President Hosni Mubarak, ousted in the 2011 Arab Spring uprising, has died at 91. Mubarak, who was in power for almost three decades, was forced to resign on Feb. 11, 2011, after following 18 days of protests around the country. (AP Photo/Jerome Delay, File) FILE - In this Oct. 6, 1981 file photo, Egyptian President Anwar Sadat, right, and Vice President Hosni Mubarak sit on the reviewing stand during a military parade just before soldiers opened fire from a truck during the parade at the reviewing stand, killing Sadat and injuring Mubarak. Egypt's state TV said Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020, that the country's former President Hosni Mubarak, ousted in the 2011 Arab Spring uprising, has died at 91. Mubarak, who was in power for almost three decades, was forced to resign on Feb. 11, 2011, after following 18 days of protests around the country. (AP Photo/Bill Foley, File) FILE - In this Jan. 31, 2011 file photo, a wounded demonstrator carries a poster in Cairo, Egypt. Egypt's state TV said Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020, that the country's former President Hosni Mubarak, ousted in the 2011 Arab Spring uprising, has died at 91. Mubarak, who was in power for almost three decades, was forced to resign on Feb. 11, 2011, after following 18 days of protests around the country. The Arab Spring uprisings had convulsed autocratic regimes across the Middle East. (AP Photo/Manoocher Deghati, File) FILE - In this March 25, 2008 file photo, Egypt's President Hosni Mubarak looks attends a wreath laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier outside Moscow's Kremlin wall. Egypt's state TV said Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020, that the country's former President Hosni Mubarak, ousted in the 2011 Arab Spring uprising, has died at 91. Mubarak, who was in power for almost three decades, was forced to resign on Feb. 11, 2011, after following 18 days of protests around the country. The Arab Spring uprisings had convulsed autocratic regimes across the Middle East. (AP Photo/Misha Japaridze, File) FILE - In this Nov. 1, 2008 file photo, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak delivers a speech at the first day of the 5th annual convention of the ruling National Democratic Party in Cairo, Egypt. Egypt's state TV said Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020, that the country's former President Hosni Mubarak, ousted in the 2011 Arab Spring uprising, has died at 91. Mubarak, who was in power for almost three decades, was forced to resign on Feb. 11, 2011, after following 18 days of protests around the country. The Arab Spring uprisings had convulsed autocratic regimes across the Middle East. (AP Photo/Nasser Nasser, File) FILE - In this April 13, 2013 file photo, former Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak waves to his supporters from behind bars as he attends a hearing in his retrial on appeal in Cairo, Egypt. Egypt's state TV said Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020, that the country's former President Hosni Mubarak, ousted in the 2011 Arab Spring uprising, has died at 91. Mubarak, who was in power for almost three decades, was forced to resign on Feb. 11, 2011, after following 18 days of protests around the country. The Arab Spring uprisings had convulsed autocratic regimes across the Middle East. (AP Photo, File) 
