middle east
{ By Ian Randall For Mailonline   Published:  19:00, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-8021009/Palaeontologists-never-seen-168-million-year-old-salamander-called-Egoria-Russia.html }
Palaeontologists have discovered a never-before-seen 168-million-year-old amphibian called Egoria in Russia that is a 8-inch long ancient salamander. Fossil remains of the amphibian — which lived around 176–161 million years ago, in the Middle Jurassic — were found in the Berezovsky quarry in Western Siberia. Experts think that the species — named Egoria malashichevi — belonged to the oldest group of salamanders, known as stem salamanders. Scroll down for video 'Salamanders first appear in the fossil records in the Middle Jurassic, including representatives of both the present-day salamander families and the most primitive ones,' said paper author Pavel Skutschas of St Petersburg University. 'When they had just appeared, salamanders made efforts to occupy different ecological niches,' the palaeontologist added. 'Thus, the stem [early] salamanders filled the niche of large water bodies; while those close to the present-day salamanders found their niche in small water bodies.' 'As for the newly discovered salamander, it occupied a middle position — although, morphologically, it is closer to the primitive.' Professor Skutschas and colleagues excavated the salamander fossils from the quarry during various expeditions in the mid-2010s. Using data gathered from the specimens, the team was able to create 3D reconstructions of the species and describe its internal structure. While E. malashichevi is the most recent species to be found in the quarry, other ancient stem salamanders have also been discovered at the site, including Urupia monstrosa and Kiyatriton krasnolutskii. The next step, the team said, will be to compare the bones from the Berezovsky site with salamander fossils from the Kirtlington quarry in Oxfordshire. This location's the world's richest site for mammal fossils from the Middle Jurassic. Prof Skutschas believes that the salamander fossils from both the Siberian and Oxfordshire sites 'may be representatives of the same genera.' 'However, to ascertain this, a detailed comparison of the palaeontological collections is required.' 'In the coming spring, our colleagues from England will come to St Petersburg to study our research materials.' 'We may discover that Urupia and Egoria used to have a very wide habitat, extending across Europe and Asia.' The full findings of the study were published in the journal PLOS ONE.   
