{ By Charlie Coë and Brittany Chain For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  14:06, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8020233/Tear-jerking-video-shows-girl-telling-father-loves-burned-alive.html }
A four-year-old girl cruelly killed along with her mother and two siblings when her father set their car alight sent him a heart-wrenching video a year earlier, telling how much she loved him.  Rowan Baxter's children Aaliyah, six, Laianah, four, and Trey, three, were killed when he set fire to the family's SUV ablaze in Brisbane's south-east on Wednesday morning. The former NRL player's estranged wife Hannah Baxter escaped the inferno but with burns so severe witnesses reported seeing her skin peeling off her body. She was taken to the Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital but was pronounced dead early on Wednesday evening. The father's Facebook page was filled with photos of his children - who he described as his 'world'.  One video Baxter shared to social media was of his 'little middle' Laianah sending him a heartfelt message from her mother's phone. 'Hi Dad I miss you. I miss you at work,' the young girl said before appearing to struggle for control of the phone with her elder sister. 'I miss you so much and love you so, so much.'  Baxter wrote alongside the video: 'Found this on my wife’s phone, my little middle missing her daddy at work.' 'Priceless words before the older one jumps in to take over then listen to @hannbaxter in the background. 'Classic Baxter household antics.'  Little over a year later, he would kill Laianah, her two siblings and their mother in cold blood.    On Wednesday night, it was confirmed Hannah Baxter had succumbed to the horrendous burns she suffered in the unspeakable act of evil.   She had been taken to the Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital after the blast with burns so severe witnesses reported seeing her skin peeling off her body.  Her estranged husband also survived the initial blast but stabbed himself in the chest beside the burning car as neighbours desperately tried to free his children. The 42-year-old former NRL player jumped in the car as Ms Baxter strapped the children in to do the school drop off.  She was parked down the road from her parents home in Camp Hill, in Brisbane's south east. She and the children had reportedly been staying there since separating from Baxter. The couple were reportedly working through a nasty custody battle after their separation.  Witness Andrew Sinclair said he will never forget seeing Ms Baxter writhing in agony as her body burned. 'The look of hurt looking straight at me, and seeing her clothing being burnt with her skin coming off her body, it was an awful thing to see.'  Another neighbour said she was entirely conscious and aware of what had happened.  'Skin was peeling off her, and she held her hands up... bits were hanging off. It was really quite horrific,' the man said.  Aaron Snell, another neighbour who witnessed the tragedy, said he initially thought he was watching a road rage attack before he realised the gravity of the situation. By the time he reacted, Ms Baxter had escaped from the car and was rolling on the footpath in an attempt to smother the flames.  A Good Samaritan was also trying to hose her down to stop the fire. Witnesses said they heard her shouting 'he's poured petrol on me' at the time.  Baxter was also still alive.   He was across the road, but returned to the car to salvage a knife. He then stabbed himself in the chest, Mr Snell said.  Mr Snell, who is trained in CPR, said he was trying to assess whether he could perform it on Baxter because he was 'just in all matter of states,' he told The Courier Mail. 'As I came to the front after calling Triple-0, I saw her (Hannah). She was smoking, her body was smoking and on fire,' Mr Snell said.   By this point, others were on the scene and trying to put out the fire in an attempt to save the children, who were still trapped inside. Mr Snell believes Baxter attempted to stop them helping his children in his final moments. 'He was so angry and just going absolutely crazy. It appeared like he wanted [the car] to burn,' he said.  Baxter, an ex-New Zealand Warriors player, stabbed himself with a knife during the horrific attack on his family.   The couple had recently separated and shut down the business they ran together, Integr8 Fitness, based at Capalaba. JANUARY, 2020 Queensland Police officers are called to a family violence incident that allegedly involved the couple. WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 19 - EARLY MORNING: Rowan Charles Baxter, 42, is spotted filling a jerry can with fuel at a local service station.  8.20AM:    Baxter dives into his estranged wife Hannah Clarke's white Kia Sportage as she was preparing to do the school drop off on Raven Street, Camp Hill, a wealthy suburb of Brisbane. He douses Ms Clarke, 31, and their three children - Aaliyah, six, Laianah, four, and Trey, three - in petrol and sets the car alight.  Neighbours hear an explosion which sounded like a 'gas bottle' blast. At least four explosions followed.  Baxter grabs a knife from the SUV and stabs himself in the chest. He tries to stop neighbours from saving his wife and children before dying in the street. Ms Clarke escapes the burning car and screams: 'He's poured petrol on me.'  Horrified witnesses see her skin peeling off her body. One heroic neighbour hoses her down in an attempt to save her life and suffers burns himself.  She is rushed to Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital in a critical condition.    WEDNESDAY NIGHT: Ms Clarke dies in hospital from the horrendous burns she suffered in the quadruple murder suicide. In recent months, Baxter flooded his Facebook site with photos and videos of his children, describing them as his 'world'.  'T-R-E-Y, love you to the moon and back,' he posted six days ago. A month earlier, he captioned a post: 'Goodnight my babies, Daddy loves you.' But in disturbing footage also shared to his social media, Baxter 'roughed up' his kids to toughen them up. He slammed his youngest, Trey's, head into the corner of a bed multiple times and pretended to strangle him while holding him in a headlock in video shared online. The comments section of the video, as well as a photo where he throws Trey high into the air, have been flooded by strangers who claim the posts show a 'blatant disregard' for the children's safety.  Weightlifting friend Joey Abraham wrote to Baxter four days ago: 'Chin up brother everything will work out just hang in there my bro.  'A lot of people care about you and the situation you're facing.'   A reeling Mr Abraham told Daily Mail Australia after the incident: 'Rowan was in a real bad place there for a bit because of the separation. 'If you knew Rowan when he at his best and to see him like last week then you know how far he'd fallen.  Confronting footage has since surfaced of the father roughing his children up during a play fight in happier times.  In the vision, which Baxter uploaded to his Facebook account about a month ago, the three children giggled as he took turns grabbing them by the neck and pushing them away from him. Trey, who was still in diapers at the time, eventually grew tired of the game after having his head slammed into a bed and ran off camera in tears. Baxter laughed and continued playing with his two older girls. The video was met with messages of support from his friends, who said he was teaching his children to have a thick skin.  'That is the coolest bro. Kids love being roughed up then they don't cry over every little thing. Awesome what you are doing,' one said. That same friend has since described Baxter's reported actions as 'inexcusable'.  'What he has done is the saddest thing ever and inexcusable... I have nothing but good memories of the man and no one could have foreseen this happening. RIP to the little ones,' he wrote underneath his original comment. Baxter indicated the footage was taken just before bed time. 'Sweet dreams my babies... love you to the moon and back,' he wrote. 'He was just a shadow of the person he used to be.  'It's just unbelievable that he could do this.  'They were beautiful kids, they were a beautiful family.'   Queensland Police officers were called to a family violence incident that allegedly involved the couple just last month, The Courier-Mail reported.  But the family were not involved in any Family Court or Federal Circuit Court proceedings.  JANUARY, 2020 Queensland Police officers are called to a family violence incident that allegedly involved the couple. WEDNESDAY FEBRUARY 19 - EARLY MORNING: Rowan Charles Baxter, 42, is spotted filling a jerry can with fuel at a local service station.  8.20AM:    Baxter dives into his estranged wife Hannah Clarke's white Kia Sportage as she was preparing to do the school drop off on Raven Street, Camp Hill, a wealthy suburb of Brisbane. He douses Ms Clarke, 31, and their three children - Aaliyah, six, Laianah, four, and Trey, three - in petrol and sets the car alight.  Neighbours hear an explosion which sounded like a 'gas bottle' blast. At least four explosions followed.  Baxter grabs a knife from the SUV and stabs himself in the chest. He tries to stop neighbours from saving his wife and children before dying in the street. Ms Clarke escapes the burning car and screams: 'He's poured petrol on me.'  Horrified witnesses see her skin peeling off her body. One heroic neighbour hoses her down in an attempt to save her life and suffers burns himself.  She is rushed to Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital in a critical condition.    WEDNESDAY NIGHT: Ms Clarke dies in hospital from the horrendous burns she suffered in the quadruple murder suicide. 
