middle east
{ By Ross Ibbetson For Mailonline   Published:  08:57, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8015341/Alan-Dershowitz-claims-Barack-Obama-personally-asked-FBI-look-George-Soros.html }
Alan Dershowitz has claimed Barack Obama 'personally asked' the FBI to look into someone on behalf of George Soros after the billionaire donor 'whispered' to the president. The Harvard Law Professor was referring to President Donald Trump's recent sparring with Attorney General Bill Barr when he made the revelation on Sunday.  'I have some information as well about the Obama administration – which will be disclosed in a lawsuit at some point, but I'm not prepared to disclose it now – about how President Obama personally asked the FBI to investigate somebody on behalf of George Soros, who was a close ally of his.' Dershowitz told Breitbart. 'People whisper to presidents all the time; presidents whisper to the Justice Department all the time. It's very common; it's wrong, whoever does it - but it's common.'  Pressed on the facts, Dershowitz declined to reveal more but to say, 'I have in my possession the actual 302 [witness report] form which documents this issue and it will at the right time come out, but I'm not free to disclose it now because it's a case that's not yet been filed.'  He added: 'There was a lot of White House control of the Justice Department during the Kennedy administration and I don't think we saw very many liberal professors arguing against that.'  Barr last week implored Trump to stop tweeting about ongoing DoJ cases, telling him it made it 'impossible' to do his job. The President, however, continued his unrelenting criticism of the recommended sentence for the convicted Republican operative Roger Stone. Last week the DoJ abandoned prosecutors' initial recommendation to give Stone seven to nine years in prison after he was found guilty in November of seven counts of lying to Congress, obstruction and witness tampering, prompting all four prosecutors to quit the case.  More than 1,000 former DoJ officials on Sunday called for Barr to resign over his handling of the trial, particularly his overruling of his own prosecutors in the case.    Dershowitz, who worked on Trump's defense team during the impeachment trial, added: 'We've seen this kind of White House influence on the Justice Department virtually in every Justice Department. The difference: This president is much more overt about it, he tweets about it. President Obama whispered to the Justice Department about it. 'And, I don't think these 1,000 former Justice Department officials would pass the shoe-on-the-other-foot test. Maybe some of them would, but a good many of them wouldn't.' Trump had heavily criticized the original sentencing request for Stone and the DoJ subsequently abandoned it, instead deciding to make no formal sentencing recommendation. Democrats blasted the department's shift in the high-profile case involving Stone, whose friendship with Trump dates back decades. Stone's trial arose from former Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation that detailed extensive Russian interference in the 2016 election to benefit Trump's candidacy. Barr said on Thursday in an interview with broadcaster ABC that Trump's criticism of those involved in the Stone case 'make it impossible for me to do my job.' 
