{ By Carly Johnson For Dailymail.com   Published:  23:57, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8014237/Cindy-Crawford-soaks-sun-shops-Malibu-Kaia-takes-runway-walk-LFW.html }
Cindy Crawford was recently on the East Coast to show her support for lookalike daughter Kaia during her stint at New York Fashion Week. And now the 53-year-old super model was spotted back in Malibu, California enjoying a solo shopping trip on Monday afternoon. Crawford, who has been cultivating Kaia's career since age 16, allowed the now 18-year-old model to hop on a plane Friday and take on London Fashion Week alone. The Vogue cover girl kept it casual for her weekday shopping trip. She slipped her slender stems into a pair of dark wash denim skinny jeans styled with a flouncy three-quart sleeve top. On the model's feet were a pair of black and white athletic sneakers that coordinated with her basic black handbag and cateye shades. Her signature brunette tresses flowed down from a seamless middle part, perfectly framing her visibly makeup free face.  Daughter Kaia dominated the runway at New York Fashion week as the event took over the Big Apple from Feb. 3-12. Crawford's mini-me walked for the likes of Marc Jacobs, Michael Kors, Coach, Proenza Schouler and more. Kaia landed in London over the weekend via a flight from JFK airport just two days after her stint at NYFW came to a close.  On Monday, Gerber suited up in a high-waisted black skirt and a grey knitted sweater, topped with a silver tinsel-inspired embellishment for the JW Anderson runway show at LFW. Kaia wore her brunette locks in a choppy bob with a side parting, while her makeup was kept light with a series of natural tones.  Undergoing an outfit change during the show, the teen model also stepped out in an oversized black coat, which she paired with matching trousers.   London Fashion Week comes to a close on Tuesday and then the up-and-coming model will most likely be on a jet and on her way to Milan for the next round of runway walks.  Kaia made headlines late last year as she embarked on a romance with SNL castmember Pete Davidson. It appears the three-month fling ended following an intervention by her famous parents back in December. But in early February, it was Crawford's son Presley who was in the news with his decision to get the word 'misunderstood' tattooed along the cheekbone under his right eye. He debuted the new inking by New York-based artist JonBoy via Instagram on February 7. JonBoy also posted to his own Instagram, sharing a photo of himself with Presley and adding the caption: 'Sorry mom'. When social media learned of his decision to permanently mark his face, the 20-year-old was met with disbelief and shock.  Shortly after the reveal he took to Instagram Live to take on his detractors. 'If I thought this was going to ruin my face or I didn't want this, I wouldn't have done it. I think that's a pretty obvious thing,' Presley said. As for why he had it done, he simply offered: 'I don't feel very understood, I guess.' Cindy shares her 18-year-old daughter Kaia and 20-year-old son Preseley with husband Rande Gerber.  On Friday, Crawford paid sweet tribute to her husband of twenty-two years on Instagram in celebration of Valentine's Day. 'Happy Valentine's Day @randegerber - grateful for your love and strength - now and always,' captioned Crawford as she shared a throwback snapshot of the pair hugging at a dining room table.  
