{ By Press Association   Published:  19:33, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/pa/article-8013665/Earl-Snowdon-wife-agree-divorce.html }
The Earl of Snowdon, the son of the late Princess Margaret, and his wife the Countess of Snowdon have “amicably agreed” that their marriage has come to an end and will divorce, a spokesman for the couple has said. The Earl – David Armstrong-Jones – who is known for his high-end furniture company and wife Serena are to separate after more than 25 years of marriage. The announcement comes after the Queen’s grandson Peter Phillips and wife Autumn revealed last week they are to split. A spokesman for the couple said: “The Earl and Countess of Snowdon have amicably agreed that their marriage has come to an end and that they shall be divorced. “They ask that the press respect their privacy and that of their family.” The couple wed in October 1993 and have two children Viscount Linley, Charles Armstrong-Jones and Lady Margarita Armstrong-Jones. The Earl’s mother Margaret, the Queen’s sister, died in 2002 and he became the 2nd Earl of Snowdon following the death of his father the Earl of Snowdon, celebrity photographer Antony Armstrong-Jones, in 2017. The Earl, also known by his professional name of David Linley, also produces luxury British accessories and has reportedly created the interiors for a number of exclusive central London homes. David, who is 21st in line to the throne, has lectured around the world and written books about furniture and styling the home. He founded his business in 1985, and in 2006 was appointed honorary chairman for Christie’s Europe, Middle East, Russia and India. Peter and Autumn have described their separation as sad but amicable, and “the best course of action for their two children and ongoing friendship”. The couple are in the process of divorcing, and will share custody of their two daughters. A spokesman for the pair, who wed at St George’s Chapel in Windsor Castle in 2008, said the decision was taken after many months of discussion, and they informed the Queen and their families last year. Canadian-born Autumn will not return to her home country, but will remain in Gloucestershire where they will co-parent nine-year-old Savannah and seven-year-old Isla. 
