{ By Harry Wise For This Is Money    Published:  10:55, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8012009/Billionaire-founder-scandal-plagued-NMC-Health-resigns-two-months-short-seller-attack.html }
The Indian-born founder of healthcare firm NMC Health has stood down from his company after questions were raised over its finances. B.R. Shetty has resigned as a non-executive chairman of the Abu Dhabi-based firm, which he started in 1974 and helped turn into the UAE's largest hospital provider.  His departure comes after a torrid two months for the business, which started after US investment firm Muddy Waters put out a statement questioning NMC Health's financial affairs. Muddy Waters, which specialises in short-selling, alleged the firm had altered its balance sheet to understate its debts and had inflated its asset purchase prices and capital expenditures. The accusations have caused NMC Health's share price to dramatically tumble by almost 70 per cent in two months. It denies the charges and has appointed former FBI director Louis Freeh to investigate the claims. NMC Health denied the accusations when they were first raised, but last week they admitted they did not know the full details regarding the firm's share ownership.  It said that more than half of Mr Shetty's supposed 15.5 per cent stake in the firm might in fact be owned by his two partners, Saeed al-Qebaisi and Khalifa al-Muhairi.  NMC Health in turn revealed that private equity fund KKR and GK Investment Holding Group could buy the company. The shares soared by around a third as a result. The next day, however, KKR said it was not looking at a bid, and shares dropped again.  Two other senior directors, Hani Buttikhi and Abdulrahman Basaddiq have also left the firm.  Co-chair Mark Tompkins, who will take over running of the firm, thanked both of them for their service to the company. He provided no remarks on Shetty's departure though.  Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell says the saga is 'one of the worst stock market disaster stories of recent times' and raises serious regulatory issues. He wrote that Shetty's departure 'is unlikely to provide the company with a clean slate and just adds to the sense of chaos around the business.' 'The simple fact the company doesn't appear to know who owns large chunks of its share capital, with some stock pledged as collateral on loans, is damning. 'The move to flag M&A interest from private equity firm KKR looked pretty desperate when it was met by strong denials from the mooted suitor within 24 hours.'  Shetty started NMC Health 46 years ago after arriving in the UAE from India with a reported $8 in his pocket.  The Karnataka-native built the firm into a thriving Middle East business and it became a publicly traded company on the London Stock Exchange in 2012.  He has also set up remittances company UAE Exchange to serve the growing expat community in the UAE and pharmaceuticals firm Neopharma. His company Finablr owns foreign exchange chain Travelex, which recently suffered a major cyber-attack from a gang demanding a £4.6million ransom payment.  Employees at the firm had to resort to using pen and paper in order to process currency transactions after reports that the Sodinokibi hackers threatened to delete a large quantity of customer data. Shares in NMC Health fell in morning trading, but closed 3 per cent higher at 800p on Monday.  
