middle east
{ By James Mills for MailOnline   Published:  11:39, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8012213/Father-boy-14-accused-killing-Tessa-Majors-bars-two-years.html }
The father of a 14-year-old boy charged with stabbing to death Tessa Majors in a Manhattan park during a botched robbery has been behind bars for the past two years, the boy's grandfather has revealed. Clifford Weaver, 80, also insists his grandson Rashaun Weaver is innocent and is a 'nice little kid.' The Harlem teenager was charged on Friday with murder and robbery, two months after Majors was killed in New York's Morningside Park. His grandfather told the New York Daily News yesterday that the boy's father, Clifford Shaun Weaver, was locked up in state prison two years ago and was recently hit with a parole violation.  Clifford was initially jailed in 2017 for drug possession, then again in September 2019 for parole violation. Mr Weaver said: 'He should be getting out soon.' He also claimed his grandson was innocent despite police finding his DNA under the finger nails of 18-year-old Majors, a freshman at the prestigious Barnard College. Detectives believe Majors fought back furiously as Weaver stabbed her when she refused to hand over her mobile phone to him and two accomplices. 'He didn't do it,' his grandfather said. 'He was a nice little kid. Liked video games. Basketball. He spent a lot of time with his dad.' But neighbors at the East Harlem housing project where he lived described him differently - as a bad kid with a dead look in his eyes. Speaking to the New York Post, one said: 'I knew he would hurt somebody. 'You get a feeling, that look he gave, like: "I don’t give a f*** and I will hurt you." Students at Barnard College - which Tessa Majors was attended at the time of her murder - have spoken of their relief after 14-year-old suspect Rashaun Weaver was arrested. Parker Cohen told the New York Post she was shocked to find out Weaver was arrested in East Harlem, not far from the college. 'The fact that he was basically a few blocks away when they [arrested] him is crazy to me,' she said. Ellen Baker, 19, added: 'I'm glad they caught him. 'I've definitely felt less safe since the murder … I'm glad he's off the street, for sure.' Marina Knowles, 21, said: 'I feel better knowing he's not out there, but I still get a little nervous every time I go into that park.' Another added that the boy used to ride his bike around the lobby, and almost hit an elderly woman over the head with it while getting into the elevator. 'I said, "Yo! Young man! Be more careful, you could kill someone, swinging that thing like that here",' the neighbor said.  'He just gave me a look. It was like, cold, you know. Like: "So what?"'  Weaver went into hiding for weeks after the murder and police believe his family hid him because Majors bit his hand and he needed time to heal. 'I don't know about that,' his grandfather said when asked about the alleged bite wound. He added: 'I last saw him about a month ago. He seemed normal.' Weaver called his grandfather after his arrest on Friday, the day before his arraignment in Manhattan Criminal Court on Saturday. 'He called to say hello,' the grandfather said. 'Told me he had to go to court.'  Weaver was charged with two counts of murder, one intentional and one felony, and four counts of robbery. At a press conference on Saturday afternoon, NYPD Police Commissioner Dermot Shea revealed that Weaver will be tried in court as an adult.   Cops allege Majors was confronted by a group of three teens as she walked through Morningside Park on the evening of December 11, before she was stabbed in a botched robbery.  Prosecutors allege Weaver is the one who repeatedly plunged the knife into Majors as she cried for help.  During Saturday's press conference, Manhattan District Attorney  Cyrus Vance also revealed tragic new details about Majors' final minutes.  He stated she lay conscious and heavily bleeding as bystanders waited for an ambulance.  Her last known words were  believed to be: 'Help me! I'm being robbed!'  Meanwhile, a 13-year-old boy is already being held in custody over the robbery of Majors - however it is believed he watched the events unfold, and was not responsible for the actual stabbing of Majors.   A third minor suspect has not yet been formally arrested or charged.  Speaking on Weaver's arrest at a press conference on Saturday, Commissioner Shea  stated:  'What we can do is say that we are confident that we have the person in custody who stabbed her, and that person will face justice in a court of law'.  He added: Sadly, [this] cannot bring back this young woman. That is something even the best, most impartial investigation simply cannot do.'  District Attorney Vance stated that there is substantial evidence that proves Weaver stabbed Majors.  He stated that there is: 'Video evidence, blood evidence,  smartphone evidence, iCloud evidence, witness identification, and the defendant's owned statements that were rigorously collected and examined'.  According to the complaint provided to DailyMail.com on Saturday, Weaver is accused of conducting a separate mugging in Morningside Park four days prior to Majors' murder.  According to that mugging victim, Weaver and two other boys confronted him on the night of December 7 and stole his iPhone. Just hours later, the iPhone was connected to an iCloud account in Weaver's name.  The mugging victim later identified Weaver from a photo line up. Additionally, the 14-year-old was seen on surveillance camera wearing the exact same outfit during both his alleged December 7 mugging and his alleged December 11 stabbing of Majors.  Meanwhile, the complaint declares that, on December 11,  the three suspects initially followed a man through the park, before they turned their attention to Majors.  At 6.47 pm, a witness 'heard a male voice from the area [believed to be Weaver] say [to Majors]: 'Run your s**t. Gimme your phone. You got some weed, gimme that too.' The witness then heard a female scream, 'Help me! I'm being robbed!'  Surveillance footage shows Majors later stagger up the Morningside Park steps to reach a security gate. She lay conscious and bleeding before she was rushed to a nearby hospital.  She was pronounced dead at 7.23 pm - meaning there was more than half an hour between the time of the attack and her death.  Weaver was the suspect who fled from a car five days after Majors' murder, while on his way to meet with police for questioning. It sparked an intensive ten-day manhunt, before Weaver was tracked down at a family member's home in The Bronx.   Police believed his family was hiding him until a mark on his hand healed. After being tracked down and interviewed, he was released.  Police say the 13-year-old boy who was arrested in relation to the robbery of Majors will be tried in a family court.  He has allegedly confessed to being part of the group who was present when she was stabbed,  but said he stood and watched as it happened.   At a pre-trial hearing last month, police officer Randys Ramos Luna testified how he tracked the boy down.  He had watched a grainy surveillance video of three young teens leaving the park shortly after the murder took place and, according to The New York Post, thought they must be students at a nearby middle school in Harlem.  He went to a residential area near the school and found the 13-year-old, who reportedly confessed to watching the stabbing take place.  The murder sent shockwaves through Manhattan, with many saying the violent incident was reminiscent of 1970s and 1980s crime in New York.  Police union chiefs blamed Bill de Blasio for it, saying he is making it difficult for regular cops to crack down on street crime.  The NYPD also faced accusations of 'victim blaming', after the police union chief claimed Majors may have been in the park seeking to buy marijuana.   
