middle east
{ By Charlie Coë For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  07:54, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8011551/Australian-girl-lose-fingers-frostbite-struggles-survive-Syrian-refugee-camp.html }
A three-year-old Australian girl could lose her fingers to frostbite as she battles through a freezing cold winter in a refugee camp for the families of ISIS fighters. The child, Amirah, is the daughter of Kirsty Rosse-Emile - a Melbourne woman who travelled with her husband Nabil Kadmiry to Syria in 2014. Kadmiry, an ex-ISIS fighter, was stripped of his Australian citizenship in October after being captured by Kurdish forces - while his family are being held at the al-Hawl camp in Syria's north east. Amirah's fingers on her left hand have turned black as she battles the harsh winter conditions, with doctors fearing they may need to be amputated. She has pain in her kneecaps and like her brother Yahya, who is only five months old, she is believed to be malnourished, The Guardian reported.  With temperatures plummeting, there have also been reported cases of rickets, developmental disorders and a shortage of wearable clothing within the camp. The tents the marooned families stay in are also reportedly soaked under the heavy snowfall which has fallen on the camp. As many as 70,000 women and children are being held inside the Syrian camp, including 66 Australians - although none of the Australians have been charged in relation to a family member's involvement with ISIS. One row of tents in the camp has been dubbed 'Australia Street', whose residents have been pining for Vegemite and are pleading with Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton to bring them home. Last year it emerged the women had left their homes in Sydney and Melbourne to travel to the middle east and marry ISIS fighters - but then found themselves stranded and desperate to return. Save the Children director of international programs and policy Mat Tinkler said there 'is no practical barrier' to repatriating the families held at al-Hawl. 'It is really drastic there are the moment, it’s down to -3C in that part of Syria,' he said. 'We have seen a little girl who will likely lose her fingers because of frostbite, we see shrapnel wounds, we see mental health issues 'It’s our very real concern an Australian child will die in that camp.' 
