middle east
{ By Shelby Slaughter For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:33, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8009925/Amber-Roses-boyfriend-Alexander-AE-Edwards-gets-face-tattoo-dedicated-two-kids.html }
Just after Amber Rose debuted her new ink in the middle of her forehead, her boyfriend - and father to their newborn Slash - has followed suit with his own face tattoo. Alexander 'AE' Edwards and Amber flashed their matching forehead ink while stepping out for her older son Sebastian's baseball game on Saturday.  The tattoos were both tributes to Rose's sons. AE proved his love with ink of each boy's birthday while Amber kept it simple with just their names. Though AE isn't Sebastian's biological father, he was happy to show his love with permanent ink, adding both baby Slash and the six-year-old's days of birth on his face with a lightening bolt in the middle. The family of four appeared in good spirits as the loving parents watched Sebastian play around with his dad, rapper Wiz Khalifa. Amber, 36, had her hands full while juggling her newborn as her loving boyfriend, 32, helped out with his first born.  Both had their tattoos front and center as they hung out during their low-key family day.  Tattoo artist Jacob Ramirez shared the photo back in January which proudly displays the birthdate of his son Slash, and Amber's son Sebastion, whom she shares with her ex.  This photo comes just after the Slutwalk founder revealed her tattoo which features both names across her forehead in large cursive writing.  'Beauty is not what's on the outside.... it's what's on the inside that counts. Inside of my Pu**y and inside of my heart,' she wrote in the caption of her debut photo. But, it didn't take long for the online trolls to settle in calling out the star for her tattoo placement choices. Talk show host Wendy Williams caught wind of Amber's new artwork and even called her out while filming her show saying, 'Amber you know I love you girl, but, why would you ruin your forehead?'  Amber later responded to her haters online writing on her Instagram: 'For the people that are telling me I'm too pretty for a face tat are the same people that would tell me that I'm 'too pretty' even if they though I was ugly and lie to me lol or they would just tell me I'm ugly. So either way the moral of the story is do whatever the fu*k you want in life.'  
