middle east
{ By Latoya Gayle For Mailonline   Published:  08:06, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7940013/Father-41-reveals-built-global-business-empire.html }
An ex-Groupon executive told how he started out selling clothes in the school playground before moving abroad for his first job at the age of 16.   Ainsley Duncombe, 41, was raised by strict middle-class parents in Chelmsford, Essex, but constantly had dreams of something bigger.   His big chance came shortly after his 16th birthday, when he accepted commission-only PR job in Tenerife.  Despite having no credit card and just £50 in his wallet, Ainsley took the opportunity and went from strength to strength, earning enough to buy his first home aged 24.  In the two decades since, Ainsley has worked around the world, including a stint in Dubai where he served as CEO of Groupon Middle East. Now Ainsley lives in Kenya with his partner Paulette, 27, and their daughter Aria, two, and works for a hotel chain. 'I used to sell clothes and belts in my school lunch hour to kids from two of the other local schools,' he said in an interview with FEMAIL.  'Myself and my two business partners were the first kids in school with mobile phones so we would coordinate sales via the devices.  'My friend Elliot also had his first car, a Ford Fiesta, so that's where we stored the stock whilst we were in class.'  At the age of 14 Ainsley was left devastated when his 18-year-old brother took his own life while on a school trip to Derbyshire.  Tip 1. Do it, do it, do it !!!! Too many entrepreneurs procrastinate and overthink a situation /idea as opposed to jumping in & getting started, you learn much more on the field as opposed to the sidelines. Tip 2. Don't let negativity drown you out, family friends & others may say it cannot be done, stay true to your cause & get it won. Tip 3. Take risks & do your homework the only way to be able to solidly move forward is to take educated calculated risks. Tip 4. Learn from your mistakes, I've learnt so much more from them than I have from many successes the mistakes are valuable so learn from them Tip 5. Listen to your gut, if your instinct tells, you something about a person, employee, investor or product listen to it & don't ignore it . Tip 6. Lastly stay hungry & most importantly stay humble but never lose the hunger to succeed. The entrepreneur said his life was turned 'upside down' and losing his brother made him realise that 'life is for living and the world was there to be conquered.'  Shortly after his 16th birthday, Ainsley saw an advert in the local paper for a job in Tenerife. The successful applicant would have their flight and one month's accommodation paid for in exchange for PR work.  'That was my opportunity to leave but I was flat broke,' Ainsley said. 'I applied for the job and went for the interview in a London hotel. 'I landed the role and I was supposed to buy my own flight ticket to Tenerife then get it reimbursed when I got there. I knew I had performed well in the interview and the boss wanted me to accept the role, so I told him I didn't have a credit card and neither did my parents. 'After much back and forth my new boss finally agreed to take a chance on me and brought my flight ticket on his own card.' Without even enough money to get to the airport, Ainsley relied on a friend to buy his ticket to Heathrow.    'He bought us each a one way tickets to the airport and once at departures he gave me his last £50,' Ainsley continued. 'He told me that I would need it more than him for my new life in Tenerife.  'He then had to take the train back to Essex with no ticket as that was the last of his own money. I'll never forget that day or his kindness towards me.'   Ainsley, who left school with six GCSEs, explained the weather was a huge factor in his decision to move to Spain.  'I had a commission only job that meant if I didn't want to work, I didn't have to,' he explained. 'I still don't eat shellfish to this day because if I had eaten it while in Tenerife and gotten sick, it would have affect my opportunity to earn commission.' By the age of 24 Ainsley had bought a townhouse in San Miguel, Tenerife.  His career since then has been international.  He said: 'I've lived and worked in London, New York, India, Tenerife as well as Dubai whilst launching businesses across Qatar, Bahrain, Egypt, Morocco, Saudia Arabia and Lebanon.  'I've learnt the differences between cultures and how drastically different business is conducted in different parts of the world - even in markets for the same thing. 'Having this global knowledge has been very useful on numerous occasions when dealing with different situations in Saudia Arabia or New York.' Ainsley started out working for Groupon Middle East after accepting a role within their Dubai office.  His friend had just set up a new recruitment company in the region and wanted to win business by sending Groupon a candidate for them to trial for a month without recruitment fees.  Ainsley said Groupon 'jumped at the chance'.   He continued: 'I started in the business development department and very quickly worked my way up to the Dubai CEO. The company was one of the fastest growing businesses in the world at the time and I learnt a lot.' Shortly after leaving Groupon he joined the UAE's leading property portal, Propertyfinder Group, and launched their regional expansion into five countries.  He now lives in Kenya after being approached by a former colleague from the UK.  'He said I'm about to buy a hotel and I want you to come in on it with me,' Ainsley explained. 'I didn't know anything about Kenya or hotels at the time, so learning the ropes was an entirely new challenging experience. 'I relocated to Kenya to help him with the sales and marketing of that project.'  There Ainsley met his partner Paulette, 27. The couple welcomed daughter Aria two years ago.   Ainsley added: 'I'm fortunate that at this stage in my career I don't look for a salary. I'm more focused on equity within a business, to help the business grow and add value. It's a position that I've dreamed of being in, since I was 16 years old.      Sharing his advice for budding entrepreneurs: 'I would say if you have a phone and the internet you have no excuse not to be able to make money.  'If I was 16 today, one of my businesses would be learning about phone photography and teaching others. Experiences of how to take great photos around the city landmarks, while earning £50 per hour for the privilege of teaching others. 'I would also say to young people the world and opportunity is there but it's up to you to have the courage to chase it, if you want it badly enough. I have lots of young people that I mentor and help around the world but I'm a big action guy.  'I prefer the types of people that say, "I've done this, tried that and want some feedback on what I've done already", as opposed to the people that say I have this idea but I haven't done anything towards bringing it to life.' 
