{ By Dominic King for MailOnline   Published:  19:48, 15 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8007959/Liverpools-case-defence-powers-Premier-League-title-bid-overcoming-resilient-Norwich.html }
It was 33 minutes into a scruffy and squally contest that Carrow Road held its breath and began to contemplate the prospect of a shock. Norwich had sprung the offside trap and Lukas Rupp suddenly found himself bearing down on Liverpool's goal.  He had stolen a march and, for good measure, he had Teemu Pukki dashing alongside him ready to provide able assistance. You expected Norwich to score but, then, the giant figure of Alisson Becker loomed into view. In that instant, the odds dramatically increased on Norwich scoring.  Rupp, fatally, hesitated; Alisson plunged to his feet and, in a flash, scooped the ball away as Pukki held his arms high in despair. Chances of this nature come few and far between against Liverpool. They might be a winning machine, a team that scores goals at the right moments, but what is carrying them closer and closer to the title is their desire to keep them out. It is 408 days since Liverpool lost in the Premier League and, in East Anglia, they showed why they have put together such a freakish run. This wasn't their most flamboyant performance of the year but it was full of the virtues that have made them the best in the business. Jurgen Klopp knows the narrative about his team breaking records and striding to silverware is unavoidable, given their commanding position in the table, but it didn't stop him trying to create a narrative of his own on Friday lunchtime about Norwich's qualities. Some would have taken that as him offering support for a compatriot but Klopp knew the first test back after the break against Daniel Farke's well-organised and energetic team was loaded with danger and he did not want them to be treated lightly. For all the bobbing and weaving and scuffling, Norwich could not deliver a meaningful blow; it is not something they should feel downhearted about. Plenty of other sides have tried this season, only to be left frustrated. When these sides faced each other in August, there was something erratic about Liverpool's defending. Liverpool led 4-0 at half-time in that contest but it was not a reflection of the way things had gone, as Norwich had created plenty of acceptable opportunities to score. Gradually, however, Liverpool have found their miserly ways. Having only kept two clean sheets in their first seven away fixtures, the only time they have conceded away from home in the Premier League in the last two-and-a-half months was at Wolves on January 23. To give that statistics further credence, it is the only time they have been breached in the league since December 7 – one goal against in 810 minutes tells the story of this team. You can highlight the quality of certain individuals but Liverpool do not boast such a formidable defensive record because Virgil van Dijk stands in the middle or because Alisson stands between the posts. This is very much down to the collective. Van Dijk has played his best football of the campaign since Joe Gomez returned to form and fitness in December; the pair complement each other perfectly and a measure of Gomez's soaring confidence came in the first 45 minutes when he cushioned a ball over his head to start an attack. Gomez stretched his legs and craned his neck to snuff out danger but he was not alone. All over the pitch, you saw men in Red, chasing back with their arms pumping like pistons to preserve the zero. They simply don't concede and don't want to be beaten. It why they have one hand on the title. 
