middle east
{ By Lisa Sewards For Weekend Magazine   Published:  22:31, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7991619/Through-Harrys-squillionaire-keyhole.html }
Harry Redknapp may have been in the public eye for most of his life, but winning I'm A Celebrity in 2018 catapulted him to a new level of fame.  So much so, he says, that he could now do with a false arm so he can wave back to everyone who says hello. But his quietly spoken wife Sandra is still adjusting to daily recognition. 'Even as we're walking down the beach with the dogs, I say, 'Who's that waving?' and Harry says, 'I've no idea.' So I say, 'This is a fine mess you've got me into,' she jokes. Their marriage quickly became the nation's favourite romance after Harry spoke of Sandra in the jungle.  No one could fail to be moved when he revealed she was the only woman he wanted to see in a bikini, that he missed her jam roly-poly and how he worried he loved her 'too much'. And here they are now, arms intertwined, finishing each other's sentences, and chuckling as they prepare for another public airing.  The couple have thrown open the doors to their home of 20 years in Sandbanks, Dorset, one of the UK's most exclusive postcodes – one 850ft street with 13 properties was valued at £93 million a couple of years ago. As a boy who grew up on an east London council estate, though, Harry stresses he only agreed to do the four-part series Harry Redknapp's Sandbanks Summer as long as it wasn't 'showy-offy'. 'I didn't want it to show everyone driving Ferraris and having crazy houses. People don't flaunt it here,' says the former Spurs and West Ham manager.  'We moved to Bournemouth in 1972 when I came to play football. We paid £4 a week rent for a four-bedroom house until we bought it off the club for £15,000.  'Sandbanks is down the road from Bournemouth but we didn't know about it then. It became the place to be 20 years ago, so they started building new houses.' The view from Harry and Sandra's floor-to-ceiling glass-fronted mansion gives an uninterrupted panorama of the sandy beach.  The interior boasts an enormous blue velvet sofa and tasteful art work on white walls. Homely touches such as sculptures of their beloved bulldogs Barney and Lulu adorn the living room, alongside treasured photos of their life and Harry's sporting trophies. Like her home, Sandra is striking with a tall, slim figure which compliments her high cheekbones, almond eyes and perfectly coiffed copper hair.  She is effortlessly chic in black trousers and trainers, with a fitted white blouse before she changes into a leotard for a yoga session with friends in the basement, where there's also an indoor swimming pool. Afterwards they have slices of her perfect purple-iced Tottenham cake.  'Nothing can beat Sandra's Tottenham cake,' Harry says. Not even her roly-poly? He laughs, 'That too.' Each episode sees Harry invite his pals to explore Sandbanks' delights, whether it be old footballing mates, new jungle friends or the Redknapp clan, including their two sons Mark, 49, a property developer, and former footballer Jamie, 46. The first episode sees Harry, 72, and ex-player Neil 'Razor' Ruddock enjoying an archery contest at Corfe Castle where Harry hits a (fake) deer right on the nose, and arranging for a Bournemouth Air Festival pilot to leave a love heart trail in the air for Sandra.  Another episode sees Harry discover, to his horror, the existence of a nudist beach as he sails past Studland Beach.  Poor Harry, who's with former footballer John Barnes, spends the afternoon worrying about naked visitors turning up for tea on his terrace. Highlights for Harry were rapping on stage at Sand Fest, and the camping trip to Brownsea Island where he cooks on a campfire before a big family football match.  'I was on stage on the beach with all the kids,' he laughs. 'We loved it but I wouldn't go again, I like a quiet life.  'I go to Rick Stein's restaurant down the road for a morning coffee most days, play golf and have dinner with Sandra.' This may be Harry's ideal day, but I'm A Celebrity changed that.  He has since been in ITV's Harry's Heroes: The Full English, in which he helped middle-aged ex-England players lose weight, and he is also still touring his An Audience With... show.  'I've even done the Royal Albert Hall,' he laughs. 'I wasn't nervous. Nothing bothers me really. I just wing it.' This no-frills attitude made him a hero in the jungle. 'I didn't know what was going on half the time,' he smiles. Jamie, whose marriage to pop star Louise Nurding ended in 2017 after 19 years, found it emotional watching his dad opening up about Sandra, saying, 'Growing up, Dad was a great father but never one to be in tears. The show has changed their lives.' The so-called Strictly Curse was blamed for putting a strain on Jamie and Louise's relationship during the 2016 dancing series, and the split has been hard for Harry and Sandra. 'There is such sadness,' says Harry.  'We love Lou. I couldn't see it happening in a million years.' It is especially sad since Harry and Sandra's marriage has been blissful. They met in 1964 at a dance at The Two Puddings pub in Stratford, east London.  He was a West Ham junior prospect and went dressed in a made-to-measure mohair suit and winkle-pickers along with his team-mate Colin Mackleworth.  Sandra, like her late twin sister Pat who went on to marry footballer Frank Lampard (the father of the current Chelsea manager), was a 17-year-old hairdresser, earning £1.50 a week.  'I wrote my number in pink lipstick on some paper, but he didn't call for a few weeks,' recalls Sandra, who was wearing a pink silk shift dress then. Harry can still recite the number. '01594 1254,' he chimes in.  'My opening line to impress her was, 'I'm on the TV this week' as I was in the England youth team and we'd won BBC Sports Personality Team of the Year.  'But she wasn't impressed – she didn't have a clue about football!' Sandra adds, 'When we started dating, we'd go out to drink Blue Nun wine and have scampi and chips.  'My father used to meet me and Pat off the bus. When Harry and Frank brought us home, my dad would give them ten minutes before he'd bang on the floor, which was a sign to leave.' But their lives haven't always been perfect. Harry was in a head-on collision during the Italia 90 World Cup and spent two days in a coma, and Sandra's sister Pat died in 2008, ten days after being hospitalised with pneumonia.  Then Harry was put on trial in 2012, accused of avoiding tax on bonus payments, but was found not guilty.  He also famously ran Sandra over in 2016 after being unaware her coat was trapped in the door of his Range Rover, breaking her ankle. But during all this, they've been each other's constant support. 'Life's not always been easy, but we've come through it all,' says Harry. 'Together, we can come through anything.'   Harry Redknapp's Sandbanks Summer, Wednesday, 8pm, ITV. 
