{ By Lauren Ferri For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  08:00, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8003173/Severe-thunderstorm-lash-Victoria-residents-warned-expect-flash-flooding-hailstones.html }
Powerful thunderstorms bringing hailstone and high winds are set to batter Victoria tonight amid warnings of flash flooding. A low-pressure system has moved south after leaving record-breaking rainfall in New South Wales, causing a severe thunderstorm warning for Victoria. Some storms moved through Melbourne about 2.30pm with more storms out to the west of the city threatening to hit on Friday night. 'A line of thunderstorms remains to the west and could impact the Melbourne area later,' the Bureau of Meteorology wrote on Twitter. Thunderstorms were detected near Croydon, Ringwood, the area northwest of Werribee, KooWeeRup, Bacchus Marsh and St Andrews about 2:40pm on Friday. An hour later, they had hit Kilmore, with the Bureau of Meteorology saying the conditions are moving east to southeast. She Oaks near Geelong has also recorded 54mm of rain within about 50 minutes. The bureau issued a severe thunderstorm warning for Melbourne's outer east, along with parts of the inner east and the city's north. 'Heavy rainfall that may lead to flash flooding and large hailstones are likely,' the warning read. The State Emergency Service urged people to remain alert, particularly those in fire-affected areas where heavy rain could pose the risk of landslides and debris strewn across roads. 'Flash floods can happen quickly, without warning and it is important to never enter or drive through flood waters, as it can take just 15cm of water to float a car,' SES State Agency Commander David Baker said. The highest rainfall hit Cardinia, south-east of Melbourne, with the area receiving 63mm since 9am. Water engulfed the underground carpark of Eastlands Shopping Centre in Ringwood and thousands of homes have been left without power. Images posted to social media show water flowing into one of the entries to the carpark. Alanna Koutoukidis, from Huxtaburger Eastland, told the Herald Sun the 'wind was literally blowing the rain sideways'. Homes in Croydon South, North Ringwood and Ringwood East were left without power after storms tore through the area. BOM Senior Forecaster Michael Efron said more rain and possible storms were expected to hit the state into the evening. 'There will be a bit of break before future showers and storms move through during the evening — so there's more to come,' he said.   Ringwood Secondary College geography teacher Brendan Ricci told the ABC hail began to fall about 2.30 and described the wind as 'howling'.  'It was like being in the middle of a tropical storm really, because the winds were howling. We certainly had squalls that you could see where the wind was often horizontal,' he said.  He said the rain was so heavy it felt as if he were in the middle of a 'severe storm cell'. BOM said Ringwood has so far received 39mm of rain throughout the day, with 23mm falling in just one hour. As of 6pm Friday much of the storms had eased but BOM had warned there could be more throughout the night before easing on Saturday morning. The temperature is in the low 20s across most of Victoria, while the humidity is extremely high. 
