middle east
{ By Tracy Wright For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:16, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8000525/Pregnant-Sophie-Turner-child-Joe-Jonas-middle-summer.html }
Sophie Turner and husband Joe Jonas will become proud parents later this year. The 23-year-old Game of Thrones star and her rockstar beau will welcome their first child into the world 'in the middle of summer,' according to US Weekly.  Turner and Jonas are still in the throws of newlywed bliss nearly nine months after their surprise Las Vegas wedding.    News broke yesterday that the happy couple are expecting their first child. 'The couple is keeping things very hush hush but their friends and family are super excited for them,' a source tells Just Jared.  Another insider added: 'Sophie has decidedly been choosing outfits to wear on and off the carpet to accommodate her changing body.' DailyMail.com has contacted Sophie's spokesperson for comment.  Joe and Sophie, who is best known for playing Sansa Stark on the HBO fantasy television series Game of Thrones, shocked fans when they held a surprise wedding in Las Vegas less than two hours after attending the Billboard Music Awards in May. Their DJ pal Diplo livestreamed the ceremony - without their permission - and showed the pair exchanging vows while an Elvis Presley impersonator officiated.  Joe later admitted his own parents found out about his Vegas wedding on the internet.   He said at the time: 'They did find out online. Well, in my mind, you know, that was the legal portion of the marriage. So I was thinking, like, 'Look, this is not the most important day' There's an important day, I mean, I'll keep private, but ahead of us. So we were, like, this is just whoever's in town.'  Sophie said her father was thrilled at her choice of husband.   She said: 'My dad was beyond pleased when I married a musician because it was always kind of, "You have to marry a rugby player or a musician." So I got one of them right ... He's getting into the Jonas Brothers. They weren't his demographic, but he's getting into them now and he loves them and the new music is fantastic.' The pair married again in front of family and friends at an intimate ceremony at Le Chateau de Tourreau in July in Sarrians, France.  Sophie's maid of honour was her co-star and best friend Maisie Williams whilst Joe's brothers Nick and Kevin attended with their wives, Priyanka Chopra and Danielle Jonas respectively.  Wilmer Valderrama and his girlfriend Amanda Pacheco were also joined at the wedding reception by fellow guests Ashley Graham and husband Justin Ervin.  After being been married for just a few weeks, Sophie said she was still getting used to calling Joe her husband.  She admitted: 'I keep going from boyfriend, to fiance, to husband. I can't figure out what to say! ... It's early days but we're very happy.'  Sophie and Joe have been together since late 2016; the pair met through mutual friends and kicked things off by DMing each other. They sparked dating rumors when they attended a Kings of Leon concert in the Netherlands in late 2016. They got engaged in 2017, a year after their first date. Sophie later told Harper's Bazaar: 'We had a lot of mutual friends and they'd been trying to introduce us for a long time. We were following each other on Instagram and he direct-messaged me one fine day, out of the blue.' Rumours that they were an item first swirled when they were seen cosying up at the MTV EMAs in November 2016, pictured on several occasions afterwards at various other events. The pair then made it 'Insta-official' in January 2017, when Sophie shared a snap of Joe smoking a cigar on a boat in Miami. When questioned at the Golden Globes about it by Extra TV host Mario Lopez, Sophie just said: 'I'm not saying anything... I'm very happy.' They were seen in March 2017 for Paris Fashion Week, holding hands, and then Sophie spoke about Joe in a chat with Marie Claire, discussing what it's like to be in a celebrity coupling. 'You do feel like you’re living in a fishbowl… It’s frustrating [that] it’s the most mundane things that make the news – how boring! There are really no other headlines?' she vented. In July 2017 she told The Sunday Times, 'I'm in a relationship, but it's a very private relationship', and that autumn the pair adopted a husky puppy together, Porky Basquiat. They became engaged shortly after, in October 2017, with Sophie saying in an interview afterwards: 'It’s lovely to be engaged. Not like I achieved anything, but I found my person, like I’d find a house that I love and want to stay in forever. There’s a sense of peace that comes with finding your person.' She told Rolling Stone in March 2019: 'I was fully preparing myself to be single for the rest of my life. I think once you've found the right person, you just know. 'I feel like I'm much older a soul than I am in age. I feel like I've lived enough life to know. I've met enough guys to know - I've met enough girls to know. I don’t feel 22. I feel like 27, 28. 'Everyone experiments. It’s part of growing up. I love a soul, not a gender.'    
