middle east
{ By Associated Press   Published:  09:23, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-7999253/EU-ministers-hold-emergency-talks-COVID-19-virus.html }
BRUSSELS (AP) - European Union health ministers agreed Thursday to boost preparations and organize a coordinated response to prevent the virus that emerged in China from further spreading across Europe. At an emergency meeting in Brussels, officials from the bloc´s 27 nations said they need to plan more to avoid any possible shortages of medicine or protective equipment during the outbreak, which the World Health Organization has called a threat to global health. The outbreak has infected over 60,000 people worldwide and killed over 1,360, with 99% of the cases in China. Experts believe the true scope of the outbreak could be higher. More people have now died from the new coronavirus than during the 2002-2003 SARS outbreak, but no deaths have been reported in Europe so far and the continent has only 46 confirmed virus cases. "We will remain vigilant and if the situation changes we will step up our work," said European health commissioner Stella Kyriakides. Ministers said early detection and uniform prevention measures - notably at entry points like airports - were key. Agnes Buzyn, the French minister for health, said the EU should also remain vigilant in case the outbreak hurts the production of pharmaceuticals in China, therefore leading to possible medical shortages. She urged the EU to start up a joint procurement plan for purchasing medical equipment. French lab scientists in hazmat gear inserting liquid in test tube manipulate potentially infected patient samples at Pasteur Institute in Paris, Thursday, Feb. 6, 2020. Scientists at the Pasteur Institute developed and shared a quick test for the new virus that is spreading worldwide, and are using genetic information about the coronavirus to develop a potential vaccine and treatments. (AP Photo/Francois Mori) "Fragmentation of effort will make us all collectively more vulnerable. Unity on our part would also support China´s efforts to contain the virus, and mitigate any further transmission within and into the EU," Kyriakides said. Asked whether the EU could close Europe's visa-free Shenghen travel area if the epidemic escalates, Croatian Health Minister Vili Beros said the bloc could indeed undertake further action. "If that means the closing of borders, we shall discuss it,'' he said. Kyriakides, however, said the current outbreak does not call for such drastic measures. COVID-19 is caused by a member of the coronavirus family that´s a close cousin to the severe acute respiratory syndrome and Middle East respiratory syndrome viruses. The EU has so far repatriated around 500 of its citizens who were in China due to the virus. Many countries have implemented travel restrictions on recent visitors to China but Dutch Health Minister Bruno Bruins encouraged EU members to avoid additional travel and trade restrictions. Dr. Mike Ryan, the executive director of WHO's emergencies program, joined the debate via video link and insisted on the importance of supporting third countries with less robust health systems to stop the virus. "A week ago, only two labs in Africa could make this diagnosis," he said. "As I speak, over 30 labs can make this diagnosis. And by the end of the week, we hope all countries in Africa will have the capacity to at least make this diagnosis." ___ Read all the AP stories about the coronavirus outbreak that emerged from China at https://apnews.com/VirusOutbreak European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety Stella Kyriakides talks to journalists during a news conference following an EU Health Ministers meeting to discuss the spread of the illness COVID-19 at the Europa building in Brussels, Thursday, Feb. 13, 2020. European Union health ministers were holding an emergency meeting Thursday on how to prevent the COVID-19 virus from further spreading across Europe. (AP Photo/Francisco Seco) Matt Raw, a British national who returned from the coronavirus-hit city of Wuhan in China, speaks to the media outside Arrowe Park Hospital where he spent two weeks in quarantine, in Wirral, England, Thursday, Feb. 13, 2020. (Peter Byrne/PA via AP) Matt Raw, a British national who returned from the coronavirus-hit city of Wuhan in China, leaves Arrowe Park Hospital where he spent two weeks in quarantine, in Wirral, England, Thursday, Feb. 13, 2020. (Peter Byrne/PA via AP) European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety Stella Kyriakides talks to journalists during a news conference following an EU Health Ministers meeting to discuss the spread of the illness COVID-19 at the Europa building in Brussels, Thursday, Feb. 13, 2020. European Union health ministers were holding an emergency meeting Thursday on how to prevent the COVID-19 virus from further spreading across Europe. (AP Photo/Francisco Seco) European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety Stella Kyriakides talks to journalists during a news conference following an EU Health Ministers meeting to discuss the spread of the illness COVID-19 at the Europa building in Brussels, Thursday, Feb. 13, 2020. European Union health ministers were holding an emergency meeting Thursday on how to prevent the COVID-19 virus from further spreading across Europe. (AP Photo/Francisco Seco) German Health Minister Jens Spahn talks to his Italian counterpart Roberto Speranza during an EU Health Ministers meeting to discuss the spread of the illness COVID-19 and plans to deal with it at the Europa building in Brussels, Thursday, Feb. 13, 2020. (AP Photo/Francisco Seco) German Health Minister Jens Spahn, left, talks to his Spanish counterpart Salvador Illa during an EU Health Ministers meeting to discuss the spread of the illness COVID-19 and plans to deal with it at the Europa building in Brussels, Thursday, Feb. 13, 2020. (AP Photo/Francisco Seco) French Health Minister Agnes Buzyn arrives to an EU Health Ministers meeting to discuss the spread of the illness COVID-19 and plans to deal with it, at the Europa building in Brussels, Thursday, Feb. 13, 2020. (AP Photo/Francisco Seco) European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety Stella Kyriakides, left, talks to Spanish Health Minister Salvador Illa during an EU Health Ministers meeting to discuss the spread of the illness COVID-19 and plans to deal with it at the Europa building in Brussels, Thursday, Feb. 13, 2020. (AP Photo/Francisco Seco) Spanish Health Minister Salvador Illa, left, talks to his French counterpart Agnes Buzyn during an EU Health Ministers meeting to discuss the spread of the illness COVID-19 and plans to deal with it at the Europa building in Brussels, Thursday, Feb. 13, 2020. (AP Photo/Francisco Seco) 
