{ By Mark Wilson For The Scottish Daily Mail   Published:  22:45, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7997591/Celtic-5-0-Hearts-Hosts-giant-stride-ninth-successive-Premiership-title.html }
The full length of the Premiership was ultimately reflected in this hefty scoreline. Yet it was not the sizeable gulf between Celtic and Hearts that plunged Parkhead into such a celebratory mood. Now ten points clear of Rangers after Steven Gerrard's men crashed to defeat at Rugby Park, Celtic fans jubilantly hailed this as a highly significant evening in the pursuit of a ninth successive Premiership title. Their own team's form in 2020 makes it difficult to offer a counter-argument. This was a ninth win out of nine since the winter break. Some 27 goals have been scored in the process. Momentum that swung towards Ibrox with that Old Firm victory on December 29 has since careered back in the direction of Glasgow's east end. Perhaps decisively. Celtic: Forster, Ajer, Simunovic, Jullien, Forrest (Elyounoussi 72), Brown, McGregor, Taylor, Ntcham (Rogic 78), Griffiths (Christie 64), Edouard. Subs Not Used: Bayo, Bauer, Hayes, Bain. Booked: Simunovic. Goals: Ntcham 30, Jullien 46, McGregor 52, Christie 67, Simunovic 80. Hearts: Joel Pereira, Clare (Langer 46), Halkett, Souttar, Garuccio, Smith (Moore 70), Irving, McDonald (Washington 29), Naismith, Walker, Boyce. Subs Not Used: Avdijaj, Zlamal, Ikpeazu, Damour. Sent Off: Langer (86). Booked: Walker, Halkett. Ref: William Collum (Scotland).   Twelve league games remain for Neil Lennon's men. One fewer than Rangers. Enough time is still present for an alteration in mood, for doubt to return, but there is a certainty about Celtic's work just now. The same clearly cannot be said of their rivals. This dismissal of table-propping Hearts summed up where the champions find themselves. They took time to hit top speed in a flawed first half marked only by Oliver Ntcham's opener. But when the accelerator was pressed on the restart, the Tynecastle outfit were left wiping dust from their eyes. Christopher Jullien, Callum McGregor, Ryan Christie and Jozo Simunovic completed a rout that didn't require a goal from a recognised striker. For Hearts, the misery was intensified by referee Willie Collum showing a late red card to substitute Marcel Langer for a wild challenge on Scott Brown. Daniel Stendel's men remain a point behind Hamilton, whom they host on Saturday. With a trip to St Mirren following afterwards, the coming eight days will do much to determine just how fraught their fight against relegation might get. Celtic have no such stresses. This was a further fillip to confidence ahead of Sunday's visit to Aberdeen. If they continue to tick off fixtures with this kind of authority there will only be one outcome. After the changes made for Sunday's Scottish Cup progression against Clyde, Lennon rolled out the biggest guns within his attacking armoury as Odsonne Edouard resumed a profitable partnership with Leigh Griffiths. The connection between the forwards was displayed almost instantly. Edouard's smart flick found Griffiths just inside the area, but the shooting chance was smothered by Craig Halkett's sliding challenge. There was no such protection 12 minutes in. Another Edouard lay-off gave his sidekick an opportunity to unleash from 22 yards. A power-packed drive skimmed the top of the bar as Joel Pereira stared upwards anxiously. It wasn't long before the Hearts keeper was called into more direct action. A Griffiths dummy helped engineer space for James Forrest to cut inside and onto his left foot. Pereira smuggled out that initial shot and was again equal to a follow-up that Griffiths couldn't quite catch cleanly. Stendel's squad options are obviously quite so lavish. Still, Scotland cap John Souttar was able to return from an ankle in one of three alterations to the team that edged beyond Falkirk to set up a Scottish Cup quarter final against Rangers. The German urged his side not to be forced too deep under pressure. And it bore dividends at times prior to the break. When Fraser Forster botched a forward pass, Hearts were able to spring Jamie Walker. Simunovic bundled him over to collect the game's first booking and concede a free-kick right on the edge of the area. Ben Garuccio hit it and Forster looked less than convincing making the save. Stendel appeared to feel more inroads could be created. With just 29 minutes on the clock, he withdrew Anthony McDonald to introduce Northern Ireland forward Conor Washington. The bemused look on the younger man's face, and the consoling hug he was offered, suggested there was no injury issue. Whatever the tactical thinking, the change didn't help Hearts maintain parity. They were behind 60 seconds later as Pereira - not for the first time in his loan spell from Manchester United - offered insufficient resistance. Edouard was typically nimble as he slalomed inside Sean Clare before producing a curling attempt. It was a decent effort. No more than that. And not one plucked from the Frenchman's sizeable top drawer. Even so, Pereira opted to parry. And he did so weakly into a central area. It feel perfectly for Ntcham to steer a shot just inside the floundering keeper's left-hand post. Celtic had been far from perfect. Parkhead often groaned as a succession of slack passes went astray. But they had the lead. As it was, the champions could easily have doubled their advantage before the break. Again, Edouard was significantly involved, advancing gracefully before dabbing the ball left to the supporting Griffiths. A cheer rang though a section of Parkhead before it was realised the Scot's strike had hit the side-netting. The home fans didn't have to wait very long to celebrate again for real. Stendel replaced Clare with Langer at the start of the second half but once more a substitution was the prelude to conceding. Greg Taylor won a corner that Griffiths delivered deep. Jullien towered to head in down the middle and Lennon's men were 2-0 up 43 seconds after the restart. It signalled a different Celtic. The largely sluggish efforts of the first period were cast off and replaced with match-clinching dynamism. Simunovic and Brown both hit the post as Hearts toiled to clear another corner before the lead was further extended with a lovely break on 52 minutes. Ntcham's quick feet began it deep in his own half, eluding attempts to close him down and picking out Forrest. The winger speared a fine pass to Edouard in the centre-circle. Hearts were in trouble. McGregor took up possession and the running. He dabbed the ball wide to Taylor, before stopping dead to create space for a cut-back return. The left-back duly delivered. McGregor sent a low shot through the legs of Souttar and into the net. Only the margin of victory was now in dispute. It was nearly increased when Forrest let fly off his left boot, but this time Pereira pushed it wide. Hearts sought to pull one back with a 25-yarder from Walker that Forster touched behind for a corner. Celtic, though, were now in the mood. Christie replaced Griffiths on 64 minutes and found the net three minutes later. Again, McGregor sent Taylor racing into space on the left. This time, his driven cross eluded Edouard but found the substitute supporting in behind to beat Pereira. Simunovic headed in a Christie corner before Langer was dismissed. By the end, all the songs from the Celtic support voiced their belief that another title was on its way.    
