{ By Reuters and Natalie Rahhal Acting Us Health Editor   Published:  21:32, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//health/article-7997325/Results-Chinese-drug-trials-coronavirus-weeks-expert.html }
Chinese scientists are testing two antiviral drugs against the new coronavirus and preliminary clinical trial results are weeks away, the co-chair of a World Health Organization (WHO) research forum said on Wednesday. On Thursday, National Institutes of Health (NIH) published released the results of their study on the use of remdesivir, a drug made to treat Ebola - unsuccessfully - for preventing and treating the Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) coronavirus.  The drug successfully both protected macaque monkeys from and treated the symptoms of MERS, leading the researchers to urge it be pushed into clinical trials for humans with the new coronavirus, dubbed COVID-19.    Scientists around the world are racing to find vaccines and drugs to prevent and treat the new virus, which has infected more than 60,000 people worldwide, and killed at least 1,367.  If the trials prove successful, the HIV drug combination is already on the market, and be deployed within weeks to combat the international outbreak.   Dr Marie-Paule Kieny, a former WHO virologist, co-chaired the two-day, closed-door research forum in Geneva of more than 300 scientists and researchers, including some who took part virtually from China and Taiwan. 'The Chinese colleagues are very eager to participate in protocols which are being defined so that all the clinical trials are done according to the same standards and are looking towards the same outcome,' she told a news conference.  'They were very interested in working on such a master protocol.' The coronavirus, now dubbed COVID-19, that emerged in central China in December has spread to at least 24 other countries. Kieny said quite a number of patients have already been dosed with a combination of the antiviral drugs ritonavir and lopinavir, but she did not have an exact count. It 'would be excellent if it would work because this drug is available in particular as a generic formulation for the treatment of HIV, so this would clearly be a drug that would be available,' Kieny said. The combination HIV therapy is sold under the brand name Kaletra by AbbVie Inc. It remains to be seen whether the treatment will prove effective against the new virus, she said. 'We don't know the result, and we still have to wait for a few days, or a few weeks to have a result.' A state-run Chinese research institute applied last week for a patent on the use of the experimental antiviral drug remdesivir from US-based Gilead Sciences Inc, which scientists hope may be effective against the coronavirus. 'They will very soon start to dose patients on remdesivir ... which had been tested without much success with Ebola, but Ebola virus and coronavirus are different and it may have a better success with corona,' Kieny said. 'But we will have to wait for a few weeks whether this gives any positive signal.' Now, NIH scientists are urging that trial's initiation.  They tested the drug in macaque monkeys, which share about 93 percent of their DNA with humans, making them a fairly good predictor of how well a drug might work in people.  They found that when monkeys were dosed with remdesivir, the MERS virus struggled to replicate, effectively protecting them against the virus. And when they treated monkeys already infected with MERS, but not yet before the peak of the viruses spread in the body, the drug had 'significant' effects.  Two of the monkeys had no lung lesions after treatment. MERS and the new coronavirus are not identical, but recent studies suggest that they are quite closely related - although not as closely as COVID-19 and the SARS coronavirus.  Still, the findings are promising enough, the side effects appear limited enough, and the coronavirus outbreak is devastating enough - that the scientists believe the drug is worth a shot in human trials.  'Our results, together with replication inhibition by remdesivir of a wide range of coronaviruses in vitro and in vivo...may further indicate utility of remdesivir against the novel coronavirus 2019-nCoV emerging from Wuhan, China,' they wrote. 
