middle east
{ By Alice Murphy For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:25, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8040565/TripAdvisor-reveals-winners-2020-Travellers-Choice-Awards.html }
A coastal town in southwestern India, a medieval city in Portugal and a region in the northern Philippines which is home to the world's most famous sunsets were the most discussed destinations on TripAdvisor over the past year. The travel website on Tuesday announced the winners of its 2020 Travellers' Choice Destination awards, which recognise the places which have seen the biggest increases in positive reviews and ratings. Kochi, a port city in southwestern India, enjoyed the biggest spike in five-star reviews, ratings and traveller interest on TripAdvisor over the last year. It was closely followed by Luzon, a lush green region in the Philippines which is home to the capital Manila, and Porto, a historic city in northern Portugal filled with winding cobbled streets and some of the world's finest wine cellars. Two little known Brazilian cities, one coastal and one high atop inland mountains, also featured in the top 10, alongside popular Indonesian and Vietnamese resorts and a Greek island which has been a tourist favourite for decades. Australia received special mention in the 'Emerging Destinations' category, where the Northern Territory capital of Darwin was recognised for its historical attractions, waterfront dining and thrilling encounters which allow you to get up close and personal with a crocodile. 1. KOCHI, INDIA  A blending of small, ancient villages along India's southwestern coast created modern day Kochi, where sunset strolls, dining on fresh fish from seaside vendors and boat rides through the islands offshore are all part of the charm.  While visitors to India traditionally prioritised trips to better known cities like Delhi and Mumbai, seasoned travellers are now venturing to Kochi for its vibrant cafes, art galleries and historic colonial sites, including beautiful Portuguese-built churches and forts. 2. LUZON, PHILIPPINES The northern region of Luzon boasts landscape and biodiversity like nowhere on earth, prompting travellers to journey to the largest island in the Philippines for a truly unique holiday experience.  Luzon is home to Manila, the country's bustling capital, but its the scenery of vast mountains, rain forests, miles-long beaches and coral reefs that draw the crowds.  3. PORTO, PORTUGAL Set on the Douro River in northern Portugal, Porto is one of the oldest cities in Europe with many of its buildings declared UNESCO World Heritage Sites in 1996.  Filled with twisting cobbled streets, the 600-year-old Sao Francisco Church and some of the world's finest wine cellars, its fast becoming the number one city break for European travellers. 4. PORTO SEGURO, BRAZIL With 55 miles of white sand beaches, it's little wonder wanderers are increasingly drawn to Porto Seguro in the state of Bahia, northeastern Brazil.  Colourful architecture, affordable restaurants and accommodation and a quaint town centre are some of the draw cards, along with the pristine Porto Seguro beach. The beach is close to a port where you can catch the ferry to Arraial d'Ajuda, an idyllic holiday resort just over 35 minutes away. The 'Trending' category recognises traveller favourite destinations that are on the rise, having had the biggest increases in positive reviews and ratings on TripAdvisor over the past year. 1. Kochi (Cochin), India 2. Luzon, Philippines 3. Porto, Portugal 4. Porto Seguro, Brazil 5. Gramado, Brazil 6. Lombok, Indonesia 7. Da Nang, Vietnam  8. Zakynthos, Greece 9. Tel Aviv, Israel 10. Krakow, Poland  Source: TripAdvisor 5. GRAMADO, BRAZIL As Brazil continues to shed its reputation as an 'off the beaten track' destination, a growing number of travellers are venturing inland to explore the mountains instead of the vibrant coastline. Gramado, a mountain resort in Brazil's southernmost state, Rio Grande do Sul, looks like it could have been plucked from a Bavarian Alpine town, having been settled by German colonists in the 19th century.  6. LOMBOK, INDONESIA Bali will always be beloved by world travellers, but Lombok is quickly taking the spotlight as Indonesia's most popular destination. It offers a more laid back atmosphere with fewer crowds than nearby Bali, which is just a short boat ride away.  Home to immaculate beaches, hiking trails to waterfalls and volcanoes and world-class diving spots, Lombok has something to suit every taste.  7. DA NANG, VIETNAM Halfway between the major cities of Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City is Da Nang, a coastal city in central Vietnam which has swiftly become a favourite among backpackers and luxury lovers alike. Despite a sudden increase in direct international flights, Da Nang remains largely affordable for travellers of all budgets. It's an easy spot to get into the local groove with a cooking class, an off-roading adventure or a relaxing massage at one of the city's many spas. The 'Emerging' category recognises destinations still ahead of the curve that smart travellers are already researching.  TripAdvisor describe the list as a 'great indicator of up-and-coming hotspots'. 1. Kaliningrad, Russia 2. Saranda, Albania 3. Beirut, Lebanon 4. Luxor, Egypt  5. Naoussa, Greece 6. Rugen Island, Germany 7. Phu Quoc Island, Vietnam 8. Monopoli, Italy 9. La Paz, Mexico 10. Curacao, Caribbean Source: TripAdvisor 8. ZAKYNTHOS, GREECE  The Greek island of Zakynthos has sustained its reputation as one of the world's most idyllic holiday destinations for decades. Sitting in the middle of Ionian Sea, the island has a quieter and more romantic atmosphere than many of its Greek counterparts with crystal clear waters and stunning scenery. It's an island 'tailor made for serious relaxation', according to reviewers on TripAdvisor. 9. TEL AVIV, ISRAEL From nightlife and history to food and world-class best beaches, Tel Aviv is a city of many talents and hidden attractions. Widely hailed as the number one party destination in the Middle East, the city on Israel's Mediterranean coast is filled with white stone buildings, bustling bars and some of the world's most respected museums. 10. KRAKOW, POLAND The historic city of Krakow in southern Poland is enjoying a moment as one of Europe's most popular weekend getaways. Surrounded by ancient walls, the centre of the city is home to a stunning Jewish quarter and an expansive market square lifted straight from a fairy tale. Krakow offers gourmet dining and fine wine at a fraction of the cost of other major European cities.  A short drive will take you to must-see historic sites including the Wieliczka Salt Mine and the Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial Museum.  
