middle east
{ By Jason Chester and Rianne Addo For Mailonline   Published:  14:20, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7995677/Richard-E-Grant-reveals-sought-THERAPY-overcome-obsession-Barbra-Streisand.html }
Richard E. Grant has revealed he sought therapy to overcome an obsession with Barbra Streisand that began when he was 14-years old. The celebrated actor fell in love with Streisand after seeing her in 1968 biographical drama Funny Girl, prompting him to write her letter requesting she stay at his family home in Swaziland. Grant, 62, has since taken his adoration for the 77-year old stage and screen icon to new heights by commissioning a two-foot tall sculpture of her instantly recognisable face. But he admits he once questioned whether it was normal to obsess over Streisand after consulting a therapist in his forties. He told Page Six: 'I was in psychoanalysis when I was 42 and I asked the shrink is this unusual to be a middle-aged person as I was then still having this mad obsession.  'And he said, "Well, it’s probably arrested development at some level in adolescence" but he said as long as you’re not hurting anyone and it makes your life tick along, then so be it.'  The actor revealed he was moved to tears after posting his teenage letter to Streisand on Twitter in 2019, only for the performer - a regular presence on the social media platform - to reply.  Responding to Grant, she tweeted: 'Dear Richard What a wonderful letter you wrote me when u were 14 ! and look at u now! You're terrific in your latest movie with Melissa congratulations and love Barbra.'  The actor revealed they've met many times since then, with a chance meeting in New York enclave The Hampton's a particular highlight.   He recalled: 'I was at a screening at Donna Karan’s place in the East Hamptons while I was working in Philadelphia last summer and managed to have a two-hour one-to-one face-to-face with no interruption conversation with her ’til 1 o’clock in the morning with her.  'For a fan, that was about as good as it could possibly get. I think she’s extraordinarily beautiful, has the most amazing talent. Can be hilarious and heartbreaking in a heartbeat of each other.'    Grant's revelation comes after he showed off his incredible sculpture of the star in a Twitter post on Thursday. The delighted actor beamed with delight as he showed off the new artwork and added that Streisand thought he was 'insane' when she shared his idea during their first encounter. Posing alongside the impressive piece, the Star Wars actor captioned the image: 'Honouring @BarbraStreisand who favours being filmed from her left side.  'Commisioned a sculpture of @BarbraStreisand as I’ve been an avid fan for over half a century. It’s 2 foot tall and finally received it today!!' [sic] In a separate clip, the Logan star explained the inspiration behind the sculpture as he said: 'I've been a Barbra Streisand fan for 50 years, and when I saw her last summer, I told her I was having a sculpture made of her face. 'She told me I was insane... she said: "No, no, no, you are insane!" Here it is, I couldn't be happier.' At the 2019 Oscars, the Downton Abbey actor not only saw Barbra appear on stage but also met the woman herself - a moment he delightedly shared on social media.  He had voiced his excitement over meeting the award-winning musician, who he wrote a fan letter to aged 14, before sharing a series of snaps with various fellow stars at the award show.   In December, Richard spoke about his love for singing sensation Barbra during an interview on Loose Women.  Speaking about meeting his idol, Richard said: 'I've had a 50 year devotion to Barbra. 'I had one day off and I drove to Malibu, where she lives, with my wife during the Oscar publicity season, and I said "I'm going to stand outside this gate", she said, "This isn't Barbara's house, if it is I'm not coming out".  'I went to the gate and someone came out and asked me what I was doing and I asked if I could take a photo outside Barbra's house and they said, "Thank you for asking".'  When asked if Barbra lived up to his expectations, the star joked: 'Yes and more! My wife has understood if Barbra said right come, I'd be there.'  
