middle east
{ By Ciara Farmer For Mailonline   Published:  13:07, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7995559/Anya-Taylor-Joy-details-use-male-nudity-Emma.html }
She recently detailed the male nudity featured in the forthcoming Jane Austen adaptation of Emma, which is due for release on Friday. And following her discussion about the racy scenes, Anya Taylor-Joy attended the photo call at The Soho Hotel in London on Wednesday afternoon. The actress, 23, looked nothing short of elegant as she posed with a tea cup and saucer in the middle of a beautifully book-lined room. Anya ensured all eyes were on her in the pretty printed Zimmerman gown, which featured different horiztonal patterned panels in different shades of pink. The floor-length dress featured a high neckline and puff sleeves and was accessorised with a pair of delicate drop earrings. She swept her blonde tresses up into a sleek ponytail, and highlighted her pretty visage with an expertly-applied pallet of make-up. Also in attendance at the shoot was screen icon Bill Nighy, who will play Mr Woodhouse in the upcoming adaptation - which is set for release on Friday. Joining them was principal character Johnny Flynn who plays George Knightley in the film and the director Autumn de Wilde. Bill looked dapper in a navy blue suit which he complemented with a shirt in a paler hue as well as a pair of black thickly-rimmed glasses.  The photo call comes after Anya appeared on Wednesday's episode of Lorraine, and discussed the level of male nudity in Emma. The Split star discussed the scene in the film where Lovesick actor Johnny, 36, rips off his clothes in a nod to the famous Colin Firth scene in Pride and Prejudice. She said: 'We weren't shy about [male nudity] in the film. We thought it was about time that we utilise the female gaze! It was time for that.' Of the period drama and the choice for the male costumes, Anya went on: 'It was also interesting, because no one really knows how the men got dressed... 'You see a lot of scenes of women pulling the corsets and all of that, but the whole production of men getting dressed too, you couldn't do it by yourself if you were wealthy, and so it was interesting.'  Touching again on the racier side of things, the Metro's review of the movie reads: 'With a cheeky bit of nudity and erotically charged waltzing there’s enough to get even Fifty Shades fans hot under the collar. It’s all in the mind, people'.  Anya's rise to fame began when she was 16 on a shopping trip to Harrods, when she was spotted by Sarah Doukas, the founder of Storm Models – and the woman who similarly discovered Kate Moss.  After embarking on a catwalk career, ambitious Anya broke into the film business in 2015 in the horror movie The Witch.  Recurring roles in Atlantis and Peaky Blinders followed. And her star is set to go further on the rise as she portrays Emma in the movie - set for release on Friday.  When Lorraine asked if it was scary starring alongside names such as actor Bill Nighy and comedian Miranda Hart, Anya said: 'Yeah, the first day of rehearsals, I definitely walked in and said, 'This isn't GCSE drama anymore! I really need to bring it up... 'But the cast were so lovely to me and really supportive and we had such a good time making it. It was really, really fun to get to know everyone. We just had a blast.' Talking about Jane Austen's character of Emma being someone you want to both 'shake' and 'cuddle', Anya said: 'She just gets a bit confused. I definitely wanted, in this adaptation, to show her making mistakes...   'And I wanted there to be moments of wanting to shake her and go, 'What are you doing with your life?' And that just made it so much more fun to play, because it really does change on a dime. It's a story of redemption at the end of the day. And she pulls through.'  
