{ By Sam Mcevoy For Mailonline   Published:  23:57, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/boxing/article-7993523/Anthony-Joshua-insists-mega-fight-against-Tyson-Fury-place-UK.html }
Anthony Joshua has insisted that an all-UK undisputed decider against Tyson Fury has to be fought on home soil. Promoter Eddie Hearn has revealed Saudi Arabia would be willing to offer a staggering £150million to have the potential bout staged in the Middle East, should Fury beat Deontay Wilder for the WBC heavyweight title on February 22. A highly-anticipated unification fight would then be on the cards for the two Brits, with Joshua currently holding the IBF, WBA, WBO & IBO titles. However, Fury has claimed that Las Vegas would be the only place to host the mega-fight between himself and Joshua, as he prepares to fight inside the MGM Grand for a third time later this month.  But for Joshua, a potential fight with the Gypsy King could only happen in Great Britain, with London or Manchester being the two standout cities of choice. Joshua told The Sun: 'I think it has to be in the UK, to be fair, but I would never let a location get in the way of a mega fight. 'The reason I always said I wanted Fury to win that fight is so we could put our fight on here but if he wants to do it in America then it makes sense for Wilder to win and then we do that fight there. 'It makes more sense to have a Brit versus an American, in America, than a Brit versus a Brit over there. 'If Fury wants to fight me in Vegas then we would have to talk about that. For me, personally, it makes more sense to have that in London or Manchester.' Joshua is already lining up where his next fight against Bulgaria's Kubrat Pulev will be, with the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium and the Emirates battling it out to host the event. Joshua will look to retain his four heavyweight belts when he takes on Pulev in June. Hearn has revealed he has offers on the table from both north London clubs to host the fight with Spurs being 'his preference'.  Hearn told the Mirror: 'Terms are, I'd not say agreed, but we're in a good position.  'We have an agreement in principle for a June fight. Spurs is our preference and now Arsenal have come in. 'When you go to other countries, like in the Middle East, you have Saudi Arabia, they hear Abu Dhabi or Qatar are looking at a fight. 'Well now it's like Spurs and Arsenal. It's not been done before at Arsenal, but I don't see why not. 'If you want to establish yourself as a sports entertainment destination, it's a pretty big coup to get this fight. 'It's the north London race for this fight. Tottenham is our preference, but we're talking to Arsenal and they've come in and said, "How do we make this happen?"' 
