middle east
{ By Ross Ibbetson For Mailonline and Afp   Published:  16:35, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7991861/Palestines-president-says-world-reject-Donald-Trumps-Middle-East-peace-plan.html }
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas today said the world should reject Donald Trump's Middle East peace plan, calling it a 'Swiss cheese' deal.  Abbas brandished a map at the UN Security Council of the 'small inland islands' which Palestine would be carved into under the US proposal - the small territories like holes in cheese.  'Every time I look at this map I lose hope, is this what we deserve?' Abbas asked. 'Is this what the Palestinian people deserve? We were here and how did we get to this point, in these small inland islands.'  The Trump plan proposes granting Israel several of its key long-held wishes, including full sovereignty over the disputed city of Jerusalem and the right to annex all settlements in the occupied West Bank. In exchange the Palestinians would be granted a demilitarised state in the remaining parts of the West Bank and Gaza.  'The plan rewards the occupation instead of holding it accountable for all the crimes it has perpetrated against our people and our land,' Abbas added. 'This plan will not bring peace or stability to the region and therefore we will not accept this plan, we will confront its application on the ground.'  As Abbas made his case some 7,000 Palestinians were led in demonstrations against the US plan on Tuesday in central Ramallah by prime minister Mohammed Shtayyeh.  A few hundred demonstrators later protested near an Israeli military checkpoint on the outskirts of the city, where clashes broke out between stone-throwing youths and Israeli soldiers firing tear gas. Twelve Palestinians were injured, including two shot by rubber bullets, the Palestinian Red Crescent said.  The protest had been called by Abbas's political party Fatah and was the largest pro-Abbas demonstration in Ramallah in several years. Demonstrators condemned the US peace plan, chanting 'This deal will not pass.' The protesters, who came from a number of cities, held signs including those reading 'Palestine is not for sale.' Trump's plan unveiled on January 28 was immediately rejected by Palestinians from across the political spectrum, who saw it as biased towards Israel. In the Gaza Strip, another part of the Palestinian territories, around 2,000 people demonstrated in Gaza City in support of Abbas. Shtayyeh addressed protesters in Ramallah, saying the demonstrations were 'the message from the Palestinian people in the West Bank and Gaza that we are united behind president Mahmud Abbas.' 
