middle east
{ By Tim Stickings For Mailonline and Afp   Published:  12:45, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7991107/Iran-taunts-huge-crowds-gather-celebrate-41st-anniversary.html }
Iran taunted the United States today as huge crowds gathered to mark the 41st anniversary of the country's Islamic revolution.  Crowds waved banners vowing 'death to America' and staged mock 'hangings' of Donald Trump as they marched through the centre of a freezing Tehran today.   President Hassan Rouhani told the crowds it was 'unbearable for the United States to accept the victory of a great nation and that a superpower has been driven out of this land'.  The 1979 revolution overthrew the US-backed Shah of Iran and created today's Islamic Republic, making the two countries sworn enemies.  Today's rally comes just weeks after they teetered on the brink of war following the US drone strike which killed Iranian general Qassem Soleimani.  Today Iranians waved national flags and held portraits of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who founded the Islamic republic after returning from exile in Paris.   Taunting the US, Rouhani told the crowds that 'it is natural for them to have dreamt, for 41 years, of returning to this land, because they know that we are one of the most powerful countries' in the Middle East.  Some marchers held banners vowing 'death to America' and 'we will resist until the end' while others burned American and Israeli flags.    Young men posed for selfies in front of a row of coffins draped in US flags and bearing the logos of companies seen as symbols of American imperialism.  Women in black dress held portraits of current supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei as well as general Soleimani who was killed in the US drone strike last month.   'I'm here to support the authority of the Islamic republic,' one participant, Yasser Mohammadi, 37, told AFP. 'Maybe we have some problems internally, like the economy and mismanagement, but this won't stop us supporting our Islamic republic. 'We want to show the world that what the US is doing is wrong, including the killing of Soleimani.'  State television showed crowds on the streets of the northern cities of Rasht and Tabriz, dressed in woolly scarves and hats and holding umbrellas, seemingly undeterred by heavy snowfall. 'Securing our country and our region depends on our unity, and participation in this rally is a symbol of this unity,' said Hadi Khamenei, brother of the supreme leader. The US-backed government was ousted in 1979 after months of protests against the regime forced Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi to flee the country.   Later that year, November radical students demanding the shah's extradition seized 52 hostages at the US embassy in Tehran and held them for 444 days, prompting Washington to sever ties. Relations worsened again in 2018 when Donald Trump abandoned the nuclear deal negotiated by Barack Obama, re-imposing tough sanctions which have crippled Iran's economy.    Tensions reached their height in early January when Iranian general Soleimani was killed by a US drone strike in Iraq.  Washington regarded Soleimani as a terrorist and said he was planning 'imminent' attacks against Americans but his death sparked a huge outpouring of public mourning in Iran.   Tehran vowed revenge and the two nations teetered on the brink of war as Trump threatened to retaliate against any attack by targeting Iranian cultural sites.  Iran eventually hit back by launching a missile barrage against US bases in Iraq, causing considerable damage.  Trump claimed victory after no US troops were killed in the missile attack, although dozens were later revealed to have suffered brain injuries.  The Iranian regime then faced a wave of anger at home after the country's revolutionary guards accidentally shot down a Ukrainian airliner, killing dozens of Iranians.     
