{ By Kellie Chudzinski For Dailymail.com   Published:  04:16, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7989565/Kaia-Gerber-Gigi-Hadid-model-oversized-outerwear-runway-Proenza-Schoulers-NYFW-show.html }
They are two of the busiest models in the middle of New York Fashion Week.  And Kaia Gerber joined Gigi Hadid on the runway for Proenza Schouler's Monday show.  The hot show focused on oversized outwear and caught the attention of Vogue Editor Anna Wintour.   Gerber, 18, looked very winter chic in an oversized black, double breasted coat that swallowed up her small frame.  Underneath she seemed to be wearing a knee-length dress with a satin white hem and in a ribbed dark green fabric.  The outfit was paired with leather thigh high boots, a black clutch and a large silver circle necklace.  Matching other models in the show, her hair was styled in a sleek, wet looking style.  While Hadid, 24, was a bright pop of color in a bright red knee-length trench coat.  Her look also was styled with thigh-high black leather boots and a smaller black clutch.  She also matched Gerber with a wet, slicked back hair style and the same large silver collar necklace.  Other models also flaunted similar oversized jackets and coats in mustard and forest green colors.  While a few models wore form fitting outfits of a fire red dress and similar styles.  Though the audience was just as well dressed as the models on the catwalk.  Emily Ratajkowski echoed the looks on the runway in an oversized white suit, blazer and trousers.  Though she showed off her toned torso in an asymmetrical cut black top that hung to one side.  Issa Rae seemed to vary from the muted tones on stage with a bright yellow, coat dress, black leather knee high boots and a white purse.  She looked flawless with her hair down in an old Hollywood glam curl and pairing her look with large gold hoop earrings.  Rae was seated next to Liya Kebede who was in a grey linen suit and unlaced white sneakers.  Hadid and Gerber quickly left the show as they headed off to another runway they were scheduled on.    
