middle east
{ By Bridie Pearson-jones For Mailonline   Published:  17:53, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7986495/Woman-reveals-stumbled-meeting-SATANIC-SEX-CULT-having-brunch-vegan-cafe.html }
A woman has claimed she accidentally stumbled across the meeting of a 'satanic sex cult' while having brunch at a vegan cafe in south London. Anya Driscoll, who works as a copywriter, was dining with her brother at the Bonnington Cafe in Vauxhall on Saturday when she ventured to the toilet and came across the meeting of 20 people in floor-length black robes with ceremonial daggers eating pork pies.  After taking to Twitter to share her story, she discovered it was likely a meeting of Order of Oriental Templars, or OTO - a group which was brought to Britain in the early 20th century by infamous occultist Aleister Crowley, who was widely believed to be a satanist, and was dubbed 'the wickedest man in the world'. Anya told how she was enjoying her mid-morning meal when her brother went to the toilet and came back urging her to find the bathroom.  'He won't tell me what's up, so - suspecting I'm going to look at some really bad art about veganism - I go,' she wrote. 'I was so wrong. I step through a signposted door that takes me into the terraced building next door. The toilet is apparently on the third floor... It feels I'm walking up the stairs in a private home. At the top of the first flight of stairs is a landing room.  'It appears to be a kitchen. On a table, a Classic British buffet of scotch eggs, breadsticks, cheese etc is laid out. The room is full. A party! Except... 'All the people - and there are at least 20 of them - are wearing floor-length black robes. Some have ceremonial daggers. They're making polite conversation and chomping on mini pork pies. It's like Eyes Wide Shut meets Keeping Up Appearances.' Anya added that she tapped one of the alleged 'cult members' on the shoulder, and he pointed her in the direction of the toilet. Ordo Templi Orientis, also known as O.T.O or 'Order of the Temple of the East' and 'Order of Oriental Templars', is an international fraternal and religious organisation that was founded in the early 20th century and loosely modelled on Freemasonry.  It was founded by  Carl Kellner and Theodor Reuss as well as English author and occultist Aleister Crowley, who is the best-known and most influential member of the order and was widely believed to be a satanist in his lifetime.    Crowley, who called himself The Beast 666 and reportedly had his teeth filed into fangs, was known to drink blood and stage huge orgies fuelled by heroin and cocaine. He was said to have mutilated women by carving signs on their breasts with red-hot daggers, and was accused of eating babies in magic rituals. Crowley also founded the controversial Thelema religion in the early 20th century. Its key message is: 'Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law.' Despite Crowley's death as an impoverished heroin addict at the age of 72 in 1947, he became an icon for anti-establishment figures in the 1960s. Peaches Geldolf was believed to be a member of the society before her death in 2014, as she often tweeted about the group and its teachings and even had an OTO tattoo on her arm. Both Jay-Z and Kanye West are among other famous faces that have been linked to the group. Kanye has worn jewellery of the Egyptian god Horus and pyramids, the symbol of Thelema, while Jay-Z sparked speculation he was a follower when he was seen wearing a T-shirt sporting Crowley's motto 'do what thou wilt'. In 2013, the then head of OTO in Britain, John Bonner told the Mail that the cult was 'misunderstood'. He said: 'We are used to being misunderstood. Many stories about Crowley, like people saying he filed his teeth down into fangs, are nonsense. 'You could call us a sex cult in a way, because we recognise, accept and adore the whole process which goes towards making tangible the previously intangible.' Devotees of OTO say it can take years of study to understand the religion - something Mr Bonner acknowledged. He said: 'You're not supposed to just jump straight in to it. It takes time and study, but our rituals are not for public consumption. You need to join us and go through the initiation process before you can begin to understand. 'But according to our beliefs we can't turn anyone away. So if you are over 18, are passably sane and are free to attend initiations, then you have an undeniable right of membership.'  She continued: 'He points up more stairs, and I awkwardly push past polite shrouded members until I reach a completely normal toilet. On the way back, someone announces it's time "to begin" and they start shuffling into another room.' At that point, Anya decided to ask the group about the practice, where she was told they were 'just friends'. She added: 'It turns out my brother also asked, and was politely shut down too. He did say he overheard one man say to another, "Oh, so you're level two then?" 'I've googled the Bonnington Centre, searched social and there is NO EVENT listed for this afternoon. Nothing. Nada. 'They were people of all ages, men and women, and apart from the satanic death cult clothing, looked quite everyday, i.e. not massive goths or obviously into alternative lifestyles. Anyway, I suppose it doesn't matter, but I am INCREDIBLY curious...'  Anya's story quickly garnered a lot of interest online, with hundreds of people replying to the thread. One joked: 'I love the fact that the swinging satanists are fuelled by Scotch eggs. Curiously British.' 'Why on earth are they meeting where there are such interruptions?' another asked. 'So they were eating pork pies and scotch eggs in a vegan restaurant? Shocked,' commented a third. And one tweeted: 'I'm not sure if most visitors to the vegan cafe would be more worried by the semi-on-site sex cult or their consumption of scotch eggs and pork pies?' Another person claimed: 'I've been on the other side of this exact interaction, at this exact location... I had never really thought how utterly bizarre it must have looked to muggles.'    Within the thread, a super sleuth highlighted that the meeting was most likely held by AMeTh Lodge, a local body of OTO, at the Bonnington Centre's 'Middle Room'. A booking for 'Ameth' for Saturday (between 8am and 9pm) and Sunday (between 10am and 4pm) is listed on its website.  Meanwhile one former Bonnington Cafe customer commented on the Twitter thread: 'The Bonnington is still open!? That's excellent news.' 
