middle east
{ By Kellie Chudzinski For Dailymail.com   Published:  02:06, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8040205/Paris-Jackson-rocks-casual-look-run-errands-celebrating-brother-Blankets-18th-birthday.html }
She is the middle child of the late King of Pop Michael Jackson.  And Paris Jackson spent the weekend celebrating her younger brother Blanket's (born Prince Michael Jackson) 18th birthday. The 21-year-old was back to her usual routine by Monday, keeping a casual look while she ran errands around Los Angeles. The blue-eyed beauty wore a cream colored graphic tee, and green joggers with one rolled to her knee and the other just above her ankle.  She teamed it with a series of long necklaces and wore in dirty, white sneakers.  Her blonde toned hair was pulled back into a messy bun with hair some big chunks hanging around her face.   On Thursday the Chanel model took to social media to share several throwback photos of her sibling.  'I used to change his diapers. This is such a trip,' reflected Paris on Friday morning. 'My brother is a legal adult today. what the f*ck,' marveled Paris.  The first photo in her nostalgic Instagram slideshow featured herself standing next to Blanket and her eldest brother Prince, 22, in a movie theater.  They are joined by an unknown pal.  She continued: '[I am] proud of the handsome, intelligent, insightful, funny, and kind young man [Blanket] has become.'  'He likes privacy that's all I gotta say. hbd lil bro,' concluded the proud big sister. Another picture shared by Paris shows a much younger brother-sister duo rocking some silly facial expressions.  Blanket - born Prince Michael Jackson II - was first introduced to the world when his late father Michael Jackson held him over a hotel balcony railing while staying in Berlin in 2002. With outrage over Jackson's actions following suit, the singer released a statement apologizing for the endangerment and blamed it on being 'caught up in the excitement of the moment.'    Michael died in June 2009 at age 50 from an overdose of sedatives administered by his personal doctor.   Prince, 23, and Paris are the children of the late singer and Debbie Rowe, while Bigi's mother is unknown. 
