{ By Daniel Davis For Mailonline   Published:  10:17, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/boxing/article-7986501/Anthony-Joshua-lives-teenage-dream-performs-alongside-Solid-Crew.html }
Anthony Joshua was able to live his teenage dream after performing 21 Seconds alongside So Solid Crew at a packed out nightclub. The British heavyweight, who will take on Kubrat Pulev next in London, was filmed at Garage Nation - and impressed the capacity crowd by rapping along to the former UK No 1. Joshua is set for a busy year, with the 30-year-old ordered by the WBO to fight both Pulev and mandatory challenger Oleksandr Usyk.  But the two-time unified champion took time out of his preparation to make a surprise appearance at the popular event. Joshua took to the stage with Lisa Maffia, who is widely known as being the main female member of So Solid Crew, and put on a very different kind of show for the hundreds packed into the venue. The event later took to Twitter to rave about Joshua's shock cameo, and described the performance as 'one of the best moments in Garage Nation history'.  After exacting revenge on Andy Ruiz Jr in Saudi Arabia last year, Joshua turned his attention to a clash with Pulev - and may also look for a unification fight against the winner of Tyson Fury's rematch with Deontay Wilder. Promoter Eddie Hearn revealed that Joshua demanded a homecoming fight, and confirmed that an agreement to stage the showdown with Pulev at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium was close. Hearn also admitted that Twickenham and Arsenal's Emirates Stadium had been under consideration to stage the fight.  He told Boxing Social: ‘Very close to agreeing terms there now. My simple strict instructions from Anthony Joshua were: “Get me back in the UK.”  ‘And it’s difficult because Kubrat Pulev wants as much money for this fight as possible. We’ve had offers from the Middle East, the Far East, from Africa, from America and for much more money than he could get in the UK.  ‘But sole strict instructions from AJ were: “Give me a homecoming fight, that’s all I want to do, fight in the UK”.  ‘So London, Spurs is the likely location. June will be the month, date will be announced soon. Finalising the deal with Top Rank and [Epic Sports’] Ivaylo Gotzev and John Wirt. Nearly done.’  Fury's promoter Bob Arum vowed to arrange a bout between Joshua and the Gypsy King, despite the latter already having signed to a trilogy bout with Wilder. Fury will face Wilder in Las Vegas on February 22, with the defeated heavyweight holding the option to walk away from a third fight.  
