{ By Dominic Lawson for the Daily Mail   Published:  01:39, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//debate/article-7985357/DOMINIC-LAWSON-storm-killed-wife-thrill-raw-power-nature.html }
This was meant to be bad news, and in a way it is: Storm Ciara (easier to write than to pronounce) has swept across the United Kingdom, disrupting travel on road, rail and in the skies. Floods have inundated low-lying areas, while on high ground the ferocity of the gales has caused wreckage to property and, perhaps, to the balance sheets of insurance companies. But still, when I saw the newspaper headline last week, 'Enjoy the calm before storm Ciara', something in me rebelled against that apparently unexceptionable statement. I enjoy storms, and I am sure I am far from alone. Children all seem to do so, perhaps because they don't have the adult anxieties about the threat to property, or indeed the knowledge that such weather can end lives, when a tree suddenly falls on a passing motorist. That almost happened to my wife last year. She drove off to church, and when she came back found the track to our house completely blocked by a mighty tree which had fallen across it. I heard the sound of it crashing, and was horribly aware that if my wife had set off maybe a quarter of an hour later, she could easily have been buried under it. Elemental We live, though only about 50 miles from London, surrounded by forest. That makes the experience of storms, while more dangerous, also more thrilling. The roar of the gales through the trees is like a mighty symphony composed by nature itself. Indeed, some of the most wonderful of all music was written to emulate a storm — these are the great composers' homage to the majesty of the elements. The 'storm' in Beethoven's Pastoral symphony is probably the most well-known. Among British composers, there is nothing to touch Benjamin Britten's 'Storm' in his Four Sea Interludes. But no one, in my view, captured the elemental power of nature more than the Finnish composer Sibelius, for example in his Tempest suite. And his final work, Tapiola, depicting a storm in a Finnish forest, contains perhaps the most awe-inspiring passages of music ever written. It helped that Sibelius lived in a country of extreme weather — weather of which he was deeply respectful. Although Britons live on a bunch of islands on the edge of the Atlantic, fortunately we experience nothing like the hurricanes which repeatedly pulverise the coastline on the other side of that ocean. And the UK never experiences the devastating tornadoes whipped up on the great plains of the U.S. Midwest. Some years ago, I was in Omaha, Nebraska, and was amazed when the skies turned completely black — in the middle of the day. The feeling of pressure in the air was overwhelming in itself. This presaged a colossal cyclone. I was actually on the way to the airport, where we were all urged to go into the basement shelters specifically built for this (quite regular) event. Perhaps this marks me out as especially child-like, but I was exhilarated, as much as anything else. I suppose this is why so many like to watch programmes about extreme weather: but watching a recording of a tornado is a bloodless and banal experience compared with the reality. Still, even in the far less extreme climatic conditions of the High Weald of East Sussex (where we live) there is enough drama in a storm to satisfy the senses — and keep us awake at night as the wind howls and the windows rattle. I have lost count of the times the electricity has been cut off because a tree has fallen across the supply wires. We have a large number of torches and candles on hand, and I remember how when the children were little, it was always something of an adventure for them when the candles had to be used. On several occasions we have been trapped in our home for days because of the flooding in our neck of the woods. So we have a large chest freezer, with more than enough provisions for such an emergency (though obviously when the power is down, you can forget about using the microwave for defrosting). Many years ago, the ancient earthworks which support the causeway that leads to our house gave way as a result of flooding in a storm; a Bailey bridge had to be built rapidly to allow us to get in and out and regain contact with what we call civilisation. Godsend But, again, it was most exciting for the children, even if it was a blow to their parents in the form of a sharp increase in the household insurance premiums. Yet adults, too, are thrilled by the wild unpredictability of what passes in this country for extreme weather. Perhaps even more so nowadays, in an age when modern technology has made our existences so much securer than our forebears endured. Our lives — in homes that are centrally heated, insulated boxes and with our communication with the world increasingly experienced through the internet — have become ever more detached from the physical reality, and arbitrariness, of nature. In a way, that is a godsend, as the predictability it brings to our lives allows us to plan and work much more easily. On the other hand, this hermetic existence can produce a sense of near-omnipotence which is delusional and even deadening. So when the might of nature bursts in on us, it is not only a necessary reminder of our insignificance, it also makes us feel more vividly alive. The older I get, the greater my suspicion that government, for all the apparent seriousness of its pronouncements, is an elaborate practical joke played on the electorate. And in the area of climate change policy, I am one of many who feel as though a series of pies has been pushed in our faces by a succession of clowns in Downing Street. In 2005, I sold our petrol car and bought a diesel-powered one. This was a direct result of the then Labour government encouraging us to do so by tilting the fuel duty system to favour diesel — justified on the grounds that diesel produces fewer carbon emissions per unit of energy than petrol. But diesel also produces about 20 times more lung-infesting sooty particulates than petrol. This had been known for decades by scientists, despite what the policy-makers later claimed. Anyway, in due course we were told we'd have to pay heavy charges if we drove our once allegedly environmentally superior diesel cars into cities. So, two years ago, I did as encouraged by the last government and bought a petrol-electric hybrid, selling the diesel (for a pathetic price, given the new policy to make them uneconomic). I'm very happy with our new — or rather 12-year-old, second-hand — hybrid. And it was pleasing, in a smug sort of way, to drive a car parading its ecological virtue with 'hybrid' emblazoned on its side. But now look what they've done. The latest government is telling us that hybrids, too, are bad for the planet, and that in 15 years' time we will actually be banned by law from buying any new ones: only fully electric vehicles will be tolerated. So, the (admittedly depreciated) value of my hybrid will plummet. Doubtless, when we've all got electric vehicles, the government of the day will say it has suddenly realised that the batteries required are wrecking the planet because of the vast amount of cobalt mining required for their manufacture — and so we must buy cars fuelled by hydrogen. As I say, this is beginning to look like a practical joke played on motorists — and a very expensive one, too. 
