{ By Ben Nagle for MailOnline    Published:  18:52, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7977887/How-Spurs-1bn-stadium-venue-sports-entertainment-industry.html }
When Tottenham Hotspur completed their long-awaited move to a new £1billion home last season, they became the envy of every sports fan in the world. Make no bones about it, White Hart Lane was good... but the new-look Tottenham Hotspur Stadium is on another level entirely. With a capacity of just over 62,000, it has raised the bar in terms of facilities, and is now set to host a whole range of different sports and entertainment events away from its main Premier League obligations. While other new state-of-the-art stadiums have been built in recent years, with one just down the road at the Emirates, none have had quite the impact of Spurs' on the Tottenham High Road. The arena, designed by architects Populous, was purpose-built to be able to hold various different events in the world of sport and media, with the retractable pitch the first of its kind in the United Kingdom. The first football match was held on March 24, a young Spurs academy side running out 3-1 winners over Southampton. The name J'Neil Bennett will go down in history after he scored the stadium's first ever goal. Just a few months on, in October, that part of north London got its first taste of NFL football, when Oakland Raiders beat Chicago Bears in front of 60,463 fans, before Carolina Panthers beat Tampa Bay Buccaneers a week later.  At half-time in the first of those matches, lifelong Spurs fan AJ Tracey took to the stage to perform for the crowds, becoming the first artist to stage a half-time show in the London Games. In turn, he also set the ball rolling for music inside the stadium, with rock legends Guns 'N Roses set to follow in the coming months.  The band reformed in 2016 and are heading out on European tour in 2020, in which they will make history by staging the first live music concert at the Tottenham Hospur Stadium. While other clubs in the Premier League, Arsenal and Manchester City to name just two, have opened brand new stadiums since the turn of the century, none have made quite the impact of Spurs'. It has paved the way for a new, high-spec, state-of-the-art experience, for both football fans and music lovers. Stadiums like the Etihad have hosted top bands and artists since their own openings, but Spurs have moved it on with perhaps the best arena in the world. In fact, the list of upcoming events seems endless, as rugby union and league also muscle in on a piece of the action.  The club have secured a long-term partnership with rugby giants Saracens, in which they will stage their annual showpiece game at the stadium for five years, starting in 2020. Although the club will be relegated to the second tier following their salary cap scandal, their pull is still massive and the stadium is expected to sell out for the opener against Harlequins in March. In 2021, the rugby action continues with the European Rugby Champions Cup and Challenge Cup finals.  The lines will also be painted for a Rugby League game in November of this year, as the third and final Test in the 2020 Ashes series between England and Australia touches down in north London. Bang in the middle of the worlds of sports and entertainment sits boxing, and although it has yet to be confirmed, that is another sport that is sure to take place at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium in the coming years. Who better to begin the boxing legacy than homegrown hero Anthony Joshua. He's fought at Wembley, but the heavyweight superstar has made no bones about where he wants to take his career next. Joshua beat Andy Ruiz Jr to get back on track in his last fight, and promoter Eddie Hearn recently opened up about the destination of his next bout, expected to be in the coming months.    'We've had offers in from the Far East, Middle East, Africa, America, Turkey,' he said. 'He wants to fight in London in June. Spurs is the frontrunner and that's what he's asked me to do. 'He's made it very clear to me, "I want to come home. I've been to Madison Square Garden, I've been to Saudi Arabia, bring me home. Forget the other offers, bring me home".' And so, there it is. Forget Wembley, forget the Emirates, Joshua wants Tottenham. And who can blame him? While the facilities at the other venues are excellent, they're better at Spurs. A huge 65-metre bar in the main stand is the longest in Europe, and would serve AJ's fans faster than anywhere else. The seats are comfier, the acoustics more impressive. Boxing is a show and the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium would likely host it better than anywhere else.  Indeed, the stadium is at the forefront of London entertainment now. When music artists graduate the 20,000-capacity O2 Arena, they are on the hunt for a stadium stage, and Tottenham has overtaken the likes of Wembley in the race to host. Although at a huge expense, Spurs' decision to upgrade their facilities has come up trumps, and the club can proudly claim that their stadium is indeed the best in the world.  
