{ By Jack Newman For Mailonline   Published:  14:50, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/sportsnews/article-8042611/London-NOT-step-host-Olympic-Games-ahead-Tokyo-coronavirus-fears-grow-Japan.html }
London will not step in to host the Olympic Games this summer amid the coronavirus outbreak. The capital's Conservative candidate for mayor, Shaun Bailey, suggested the Games should be moved away from Tokyo, 'given the ongoing disruption' caused by the virus. But his comments were branded 'inappropriate' by Tokyo's governor Yuriko Koike, and the British Olympic Association (BOA) has moved to distance sporting officials from the remarks. The BOA said they are still fully supportive of the Olympics taking place in Tokyo, according to The Telegraph. Dick Pound, the longest serving member of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), reckons there is a three-month window to decide the fate of this summer's spectacle. He told the AP news agency: 'This is the new war and you have to face it.  'In and around that time, I'd say folks are going to have to ask: "Is this under sufficient control that we can be confident about going to Tokyo, or not?"' Last week, Bailey said London would be ready to step in if needed even though much of the infrastructure from London 2012 has been dismantled. He wrote on Twitter: 'London can host the #Olympics in 2020. 'We have the infrastructure and the experience. And due to the coronavirus outbreak, the world might need us to step up.  'As Mayor, I will make sure London is ready to answer the call and host the Olympics again.' But one IOC official told The Telegraph the proposal was 'laughable' because there would be no athletes village and the virus has already spread to Europe.  Dick Pound has been an International Olympic Committee member since 1978, 13 years longer than current President Thomas Bach. He said: 'You could certainly go to two months out if you had to. 'A lot of things have to start happening. You've got to start ramping up your security, your food, the Olympic Village, the hotels, The media folks will be in there building their studios.' And if it got to the point of not going ahead, Pound speculated 'you're probably looking at a cancellation.' China on Tuesday reported 508 new cases and another 71 deaths, 68 of them in the central city of Wuhan, where the epidemic was first detected in December. The updates bring mainland China's totals to 77,658 cases and 2,663 deaths. South Korea now has the second-most cases in the world with 977, including 10 deaths. Clusters of the illness are now appearing in the Middle East and Europe. This could signal a new stage in the spread of the virus with four deaths reported in Japan. Pound encouraged athletes to keep training. About 11,000 are expected for the Olympics, and another 4,400 for the Paralympics, which open on August 25. 'As far as we all know you're going to be in Tokyo,' Pound said. 'All indications are at this stage that it will be business as usual. So keep focused on your sport and be sure that the IOC is not going to send you into a pandemic situation.' The modern Olympics dating from 1896 have only been cancelled during wartime, and faced boycotts in 1976 in Montreal, in 1980 in Moscow and 1984 in Los Angeles. 
