medicine
{ By Associated Press   Published:  11:33, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8024439/10-Things-Know-Today--20-February-2020.html }
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today: 1. DEBATE NIGHT BRAWL With both newcomer Michael Bloomberg and front-runner Bernie Sanders as frequent targets, the latest debate in Las Vegas featured the most aggressive sustained period of infighting. 2. WHAT GERMANY SUSPECTS AS MOTIVE IN MASS SHOOTING A 43-year-old German man shot and killed nine people at several locations in a Frankfurt suburb, attacks that appear to have been motivated by far-right beliefs, officials say. 3. SOUTH KOREAN CITY MAKES MAJOR MOVE AGAINST VIRUS The mayor of Daegu urges its 2.5 million people to refrain from going outside as cases of a new virus spike and implores the government in Seoul to help his city. 4. PENTAGON CHIEF TO VISIT NUCLEAR BASE Mark Esper is visiting a nuclear missile field in North Dakota to tout the administration's multibillion-dollar plan for modernization of the nuclear arsenal. 5. WHO TRUMP TAPPED FOR TOP INTELLIGENCE POST Richard Grenell, the U.S. ambassador to Germany and staunch presidential ally, will become acting director of national intelligence, commanding the nation's 17 spy agencies. Democratic presidential candidates Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., left, and former South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg, right, reach for former Vice President Joe Biden during a Democratic presidential primary debate Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020, in Las Vegas, hosted by NBC News and MSNBC. (AP Photo/John Locher) 6. SAINTS HEAD TO COURT New Orleans´ NFL team wants to block the release of hundreds of confidential emails detailing the public relations work the team did for the area's Roman Catholic archdiocese amid its sexual abuse crisis. 7. WHAT WEINSTEIN JURORS ARE FOCUSING ON The jury's deliberations have given a lot of attention to actress Annabella Sciorra´s allegation that the once-heralded Hollywood mogul raped her in the mid-1990s. 8. `PEOPLE ARE SEEING A VALUE IN STRAYS´ Street dogs in Egypt are finding popular acceptance after centuries of social and religious stigma. 9. 'BLACK IN SPACE' LOOKS AT FINAL FRONTIER OF CIVIL RIGHTS A new documentary explores how black astronauts made it into space amid segregation, discrimination and the Cold War. 10. NASCAR DRIVER GETS MEDICAL GREEN FLAG Ryan Newman is released from a Florida hospital, two days after his frightening crash on the final lap of the Daytona 500. In this photo released by Xinhua News Agency, Jingjing, a four-month-old patient, is seen in the father's arms at a branch of Children's Hospital affiliated to Zhejiang University School of Medicine in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Feb. 20, 2020. The four-month-old baby infected with the novel coronavirus was discharged from hospital on Thursday and is the youngest patient to recover in the province. (Huang Zongzhi/Xinhua via AP) People wear masks as they commute during the morning rush hour Thursday, Feb. 20, 2020, in Chuo district in Tokyo. A viral outbreak that began in China has infected more than 75,000 people globally. More than 1,000 cases have been confirmed outside mainland China. Most of the cases outside China involve people from a cruise ship quarantined at a Japanese port. (AP Photo/Kiichiro Sato) Pope Francis is kissed by a man during his weekly general audience, at the Pope Paul VI hall, at the Vatican, Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020. (AP Photo/Andrew Medichini) Thousands of pro-choice activists, including feminist groups from the U.S. and Chile, demonstrate in favor of decriminalizing abortion, outside Congress in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020. Waving their iconic green handkerchiefs, the demonstrators are demanding the issue be included in this year's parliamentary agenda. (AP Photo/Natacha Pisarenko) A pedestrian crosses a street as farmers block the center of the city with their tractors during a protest in Pamplona, northern Spain, Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020. Farmers across Spain are taking part in mass protests over what they say are plummeting incomes for agricultural workers. (AP Photo/Alvaro Barrientos) A little girl looks out of a bus window in Caracas, Venezuela, Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020. The debate over fresh U.S. sanctions aimed at forcing out Venezuela's Nicolás Maduro played out Wednesday across the crisis-stricken South American nation. Families have been split up with at least 4.5 million Venezuelans fleeing crumbling public services. (AP Photo/Ariana Cubillos) Image of painter Vincent van Gogh are projected during a media tour ahead of the opening of the show titled "Van Gogh Alive: The Experience" in Mexico City, Tuesday, Feb. 18, 2020. The show brings together thousands of images to tell the story of the artist's life and work, offering a multi-sensory experience of music, sound effects and smells. (AP Photo/Eduardo Verdugo) In this Feb. 14, 2020 photo, Egyptian Vets for Animal Care, the country's first spay and neuter program, mark a puppy with red paint after giving it a rabies shot, in Cairo, Egypt. After centuries of stigma, the street dogs of Egypt are finding popular acceptance. Grassroots support like sterilization, medical care and shelter has surged in defiance of a government extermination policy. For decades, Cairo dealt with its stray animal problem by leaving poison in the streets.  (AP Photo/Nariman El-Mofty) Mercedes-AMG Petronas' Lewis Hamilton makes a pit stop during a Formula One pre-season testing session at the Barcelona Catalunya racetrack in Montmelo, outside Barcelona, Spain, Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020. (AP Photo/Joan Monfort) 
