{ By Sherry Karabin For Dailymail.com   Published:  03:50, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8022861/Shocking-new-TikTok-skull-breaker-challenge-fatal-doctor-warns.html }
A shocking new trend on TikTok, dubbed the 'skull breaker challenge' is leaving children with serious injuries, with doctors warning that it could be fatal.. The 'skull breaker challenge' started in Spain when two students filmed themselves carrying out the seemingly harmless prank with a third unsuspecting participant.  As the three participants jump straight up, the two people on the side kick inwards to knock the person in the middle off his feet and onto his head, causing a variety of injuries to the head, neck and wrist. The practice has reportedly landed at least two children in the US in the hospital. Scroll down for video  According to Dr. Nathan Richards,  an internal medicine and pediatric specialist at The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center the skull breaker challenge can be fatal.  'It can be associated with a variety of serious and even life-threatening injuries including, but not limited to, bruising, hematoma, skull fracture, neck strain, neck fracture, concussion and long term complications of concussion, bleeding in or around the brain, loss of consciousness, paralysis, and death,' said Richards.  One viral video out of Colombia, that has since been removed from social media, shows a student falling onto the back of his head outside his school.  School administrators quickly condemned it. A tweet translated into English reads: 'Recently, a video has been made viral on social networks, in which some baccalaureate students of our institution are exposed, making a game where the ... physical integrity of one of the young people would allegedly be put at risk. In the aforementioned video, the badge of the College is clearly distinguished, whose symbol represents the institutions.'  While the school didn't address any specific harm that may have been caused, it did say 'the parties involved (the students with their respective representatives) were summoned to the Directorate of the College to initiate the corresponding procedures, attached to the relevant legal provisions.' The practice has spread to India, the United Arab Emirates and the US, where parents are taking to social media to let everyone know about the potential dangers, even posting photos of their injured children.   On February 4, Valerie Hodson posted this warning on Facebook.   'On Wednesday my son was asked to do a jumping contest with his 2 friends, when he jumped up, the 2 boys kicked him, as hard as they could, so his legs flew out in front of him. He landed hard flat on his back and head, as he struggled to get up he lost consciousness, he fell forward landing on his face. The school monitor ran to his side, all the while the 2 boys were snickering and laughing as his stiff unconscious body lay on the asphalt. 'Fast forward at the hospital, he has a head injury, stitches in his face, severe cuts inside his mouth and 2 front teeth I have to keep on eye on.' Days later another mother in Alabama posted a similar warning, asking for prayers for her son who had to undergo surgery as a result of the prank. A spokesperson for TikTok reportedly told Yahoo Lifestyle that the safety of the platform's users is 'a top priority.' Videos of the skull breaker challenge on TikTok have been replaced by 'skull saver' challenges, where users carry out the practice without the hazardous kick. Public service announcements are also being posted. Still given the 'wow' factor that drives trends like the 'skull breaker challenge' to go viral, mental health experts are encouraging parents to familiarize themselves with the practice and explain the dangers to their children. 
