medicine
{ By Sophie Law For Mailonline   Published:  09:04, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8041319/Porch-pirate-surrounded-officers-caught-stealing-package-police-sting.html }
A brazen porch pirate was surrounded by undercover officers after stealing a package from a front door in a dramatic police sting.  A doorbell security camera captured the thief being arrested just moments after she swiped the box lying on a porch in Edmonton, the capital of Canada's Alberta province.  In the clip, an unnamed woman wearing a cap can be seen walking up a snow-covered path to a house on a suburban street. Looking around her as she approaches the door, she pauses for a moment before grabbing a brown package and calmly walking away. She barely makes it to the end of the street before an unmarked police truck pulls up and blocks her from crossing the road.  The woman appears to look confused as yet another car pulls up from a different direction as a plain clothed police officer yells at her to drop the package. The thief is ordered to drop to her knees as yet another unmarked car races towards towards the scene in the dramatic police sting. The security camera captures police officers handcuffing the burglar following the robbery.   Police across the US and Canada have been cracking down on so-called 'porch pirates' who target unattended packages - often containing vital medicine. Officers have been known to attach tracking devices to catch criminals in the act. The clip, which was posted to Reddit, was met with outrage - with many users saying they had also been the victim of a porch pirate.  One user wrote: 'I lost three miserable days to pain last week after some a**hole stole my medication from the mail.' Elsewhere, one penned: 'Over the holidays I walked past a couple of guys carrying a box that I bet didn’t belong to them. I waited around, watched them open it and leave it on the street.  'I went back and picked it up and returned it to the address it was stolen from. It turned out to be diabetes medicine. Some people deserve worse than karma.' Meanwhile, one wrote: 'My dad gets big boxes of humira for his crohns and it’s always been my fear that someone’s gonna steal it one day.'  
