medicine
{ By Steve Doughty Social Affairs Correspondent For The Daily Mail   Published:  00:08, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8022661/The-dementia-patients-prescribed-chemical-cosh.html }
Hospitals are failing dementia patients by prescribing dangerous 'chemical cosh' drugs and failing to offer alternative therapies. Four in ten hospital trusts in England only offer antipsychotic medication for those with dementia who are in distress, agitated or aggressive. They sedate the patient, but increase the risk of strokes and death. Those given the medication may simply be upset because they are in pain, uncomfortable or thirsty, but are unable to express this because of their condition. Medicine watchdog NICE recommends offering a range of non-drug therapies to calm patients down and help them to adjust to strange surroundings. But research by the Pharmaceutical Journal found that 39 per cent of NHS hospital trusts do not offer any of these therapies. Only 17 per cent of the 87 acute trusts surveyed said they offered all of the non-drug therapies recommended by NICE. Alternative treatments include group reminiscence therapy, cognitive rehabilitation or occupational therapy. Latest NHS figures show that 43,678 dementia patients were taking antipsychotics in March this year, up from 42,038 in April 2018.  This is nearly one in ten of all patients registered with the illness, and in some trusts the rate is as high as one in six – despite concerns over their use. A previous study has linked antipsychotics to 1,800 premature deaths in the UK each year, while other research has shown they increase the risk of strokes nine-fold.  The Department of Health promised to drastically reduce their use in 2009 as part of a national dementia strategy, which identified major failings in care. The Daily Mail is campaigning for better care for those with dementia. Karen Harrison Dening, of the charity Dementia UK, said: 'Depending on where you are in the country you could have a very different experience of dementia care. 'Some services might provide cognitive stimulation therapy, for example, but you often find it's not open to everyone and targeted towards only a few individuals.' Sally Copley, of the Alzheimer's Society, said: 'It is crucial that systems are put in place before and after [hospital] admission to enable people with dementia to access and benefit from non-drug treatments. 'People often enter hospital at crisis point, due to a lack of support in the community.  'Hospitals can be a difficult and scary place for people with dementia. It is concerning that this data shows that many acute trusts are unable to offer appropriate alternatives to drugs. 'To improve the lives of people living with dementia, we need to ensure that they can access therapies as recommended by NICE guidance – and pharmacological interventions only where appropriate and according to their individual needs.' An NHS spokesman said: 'The NHS has diagnosed a record number of people with dementia in the past year, with the proportion of people given this kind of drug actually falling year on year, building on progress since 2005 which has seen the dementia diagnosis rate double and the prescription of antipsychotic drugs fall by half.'  
