{ By Sophie Tanno For Mailonline   Published:  17:44, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8021367/Radiographer-petrol-bombed-synagogue-Holocaust-memorial-day-struck-off.html }
A terrorist radiographer has been struck off after he petrol bombed one of Britain's oldest synagogues on a Holocaust memorial day. Far-right extremist Tristan Morgan laughed after pouring petrol through a window of the 18th century building despite almost becoming engulfed in flames himself. The incident was captured on CCTV and the force of the blast at Exeter Synagogue, Devon, sent Morgan flying back and set his hair on fire. Now Morgan, a radiographer at the department of nuclear medicine at the Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital, has been struck off following a Health and Care Professions tribunal. The tribunal was told Morgan, a white supremacist, had an obsession with 'abhorrent anti-Semitic material' as well as severe mental health issues. He had no previous history of antisocial behaviour before the incident on July 21 in 2018 but the tribunal was told a search of his home found 24 knives and a racist handwritten note. There was also a large volume of material 'which demonstrated a radical anti-Semitic, neo-Nazi mindset as well as hatred of non-white people'. The attack on the synagogue coincided with a Jewish fast day commemorating disasters, including the Holocaust. The repairs totalled more than £23,000.  As he calmly walked away he could be seen patting down his hair to extinguish the flames. In April last year Morgan was detained indefinitely in a mental health institute after admitting arson and two terrorism-related charges at the Old Bailey in London. The Health and Care Professions tribunal heard Morgan has shown little insight and no remorse. It concluded: 'Morgan's views and convictions are fundamentally incompatible with remaining on the register. 'The nature and gravity of Morgan's conviction is such that only a striking-off order would be sufficient to protect the public and maintain and declare proper standards of conduct and behaviour, to maintain the reputation of the profession, and to maintain public confidence in the profession.' At the Old Bailey, Judge Anthony Leonard QC, said: 'You currently present a high risk of future acts of violence which could result in serious and life-threatening harm. 'That risk is linked, say the psychiatrists, to your mental disorder, and exacerbated through your misuse of alcohol and illicit drugs*.. You are dangerous when affected by your mental condition.'   
