medicine
{ By Faith Ridler For Mailonline   Published:  12:55, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8020175/Queen-Letizia-Spain-wraps-warm-navy-cape-coat.html }
Queen Letizia of Spain wrapped up warm in a stylish cape coat as she arrived at a UNICEF meeting in Madrid this morning. The Spanish royal, 47, appeared in high spirits as she chaired the children's charity meeting, which had been called to discuss a strategy against malnutrition and childhood obesity. She paired her navy, knee-length overcoat - which had three-quarter sleeves - with black pointed toe heels and a matching leather clutch bag. Letizia, who is the Honorary President of UNICEF Spain, was later seen seated inside the meeting in a light grey, Prince of Wales plaid trouser suit and a simple white blouse. The mother-of-two accessorised her business-like look with a pair of gold hoop earrings and a ring with a circular design by designer Karen Hallam. The Spanish queen wore her brunette locks in her typical style - loose around her shoulders and tucked behind her ears - and opted for a light layer of make-up.  She was seen sat alongside UNICEF Spain President Gustavo Suarez Pertierra as the discussion got underway.  The meeting, held at the UNICEF headquarters in the capital, was called to discuss the causes and consequences of malnutrition in the world and the strategy against malnutrition and childhood obesity.  Letizia's outing continues a busy week for the royal, who joined her husband King Felipe, 52, at the National Research Awards on Monday. The queen looked polished in a black midi dress as she arrived at the Royal Palace of El Pardo for the annual ceremony - which celebrated innovators in the fields of medicine, biology, engineering, social sciences and humanities. King Felipe also dressed to impress in a dark, pinstripe suit as he sat alongside his wife in the audience at the event.   He paired his suit with a classic white dress shirt and wore a powder blue tie for the occasion.  Later on, the royal couple posed with two men and two women who were awarded plaques in the ceremony held at El Pardo Palace.  
