{ By Hayley Richardson For Mailonline   Published:  08:28, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8038103/Struggling-cope-new-parent-Expert-reveals-banish-baby-blues.html }
Becoming a parent is a life-affirming experience for most, but it does come with its challenges. As if suddenly being 100 per cent responsible for another human wasn't mind-blowing enough, there's also the sleepness nights and postpartum changes to your body to contend with.  Neev Spencer, 36, a British mother-of-two, presenter and maternal mental health campaigner, is well aware of the stresses and strains faced by new mothers. After struggling to conceive, she experienced post-natal depression after the birth of her daughter Genevieve, now three, which led to her working with the Royal Foundation's Heads Together initiative, set up by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry.  Neev was invited to Kensington Palace to meet Kate Middleton and is a staunch supporter of the duchess' recent 5 Big Questions campaign.  Here she shares her top tips for taking care to avoid the baby blues with FEMAIL - from making yourself a 'happy' playlist to doing the right kind of exercise pre and post-birth.   PREPARE TO LOSE CONTROL  So you've chosen the buggy and are starting to think about how to decorate the nursery, but have you considered how you may feel in the lead up to having your baby? Anxiety ahead of birth is something that every single mother-to-be goes through, so being prepared is crucial.  'What will happen to my body?' 'Can I do this?' 'Will the baby be okay?' These are all thoughts that run through your mind in the nights leading up to the big day, and it's nearly impossible to be rational when so much is at stake.  Meditation and breathing techniques aren't just for labour - they help to calm the mind while you're pregnant and prepare you in the best possible way for what may come. Starting early and getting a head start as you go through pregnancy really helps. You can't control everything - in fact, you can't really control anything when it comes to how your baby will come into this world. Try not to get too hung up on your birth plan - yes, have a clear vision in your mind of what you would like, but don't allow yourself to get emotional or distressed if things don't run as smoothly as you'd hoped. The main thing is that you and your baby are safe.  As for after the baby is born, it's natural your body and mind will need sufficient time to rest and repair - but with the newfound pressures of motherhood, time for this to happen may not be easy to carve out. If you are more aware about how the mind can be affected post-birth, you'll be better prepared to look out for the signs and signals that you may need more support. START NAPPING  The best advice someone gave me before I had my first baby was to get as much rest as possible in the weeks before my due date. In the six months that follow, it's likely you may not get more then two hour's kip at a time.  Giving up work a week earlier than you planned and just listening to your body and putting your swollen feet up may be the best gift you can give yourself.  After baby is here, a lack of sleep can trigger a lot of emotions, so it's imperative you take naps when the baby does. Sleep acts as a medicine for your mind; even 10 minutes of shut eye here and there throughout the day will make a big difference.  BATCH COOK BEFORE THE BIRTH  Cooking up meals ahead of the baby's arrival isn't just a convenient thing to do - it's crucial. Eating for two is a myth, however it's not so much about how much extra you eat, but more what you eat.  During my first pregnancy I craved junk food, and unbeknownst to me it was playing a part in my pre-natal anxiety, generating sugar highs and lows and feeding my paranoid 'what if' thoughts. The second time around I ate much better; mainly vegetables, proteins and good fats.  The positive effect this had on my mind during my pregnancy was amazing. I felt happier, I put on the right amount of weight within the guidelines and, most importantly, supplied my baby with a healthy, varied diet. Drinking a lot of water throughout the day and taking suitable vitamin supplements helps to provide you with that all-important energy - and can even help with breastfeeding.  Time will escape you once you've given birth - and so will your appetite.  Having wholesome meals in the freezer will become a godsend, so think ahead and take any offers from friends and family to cook for you.   DON'T STAY COOPED UP INDOORS It's amazing how much of a difference a walk can do for your mind, whether it's a brief stroll or a longer jaunt. Breathing in that chilly air can blow away a lot of troubles that pile up mentally. Movement is so important for your baby in pregnancy, as it helps with blood flow and also keeps your body strong as it changes to accommodate your growing little one.   It's also essential that your body is fit and healthy before you give birth, as you're in for an extremely physical time once the baby is here.   The first few months of motherhood can be quite isolating, so once you feel up to it, it's important to get out in the fresh air to stay connected to the outside world.  LEARN TO ACCEPT SUPPORT  They say it takes a village to raise a child, and once you become a mother this statement makes so much sense. Being able to trust in people around you and know that you aren't alone is crucial. No matter how proud or independent you are, leaning on people when you're at your most vulnerable is so important.  I used to send voice notes to my best friend every day to offload my worries, and once they were out in the open, they didn't seem as weighty as before. This is a great way of having a two-way conversation with a baby in hand.  I highly recommend keeping in touch with friends, family, even your NCT group. The days and nights are long when it's just you and baby, so it's important to try to break things up by keeping in contact.  You can also rely on your health visitor team and your local GP should you need someone to talk to about any worries you may have.   DON'T FALL PREY TO THE 'PERFECT' INSTA-MUMS  We've all seen those pictures on social media of mums-to-be enjoying 'perfect' pregnancies, boasting about their beautiful baby showers and showing off their immaculate bumps.  I was a victim to all that too, but try not to take any of it too seriously as what you see online isn't the truth.  With my first child I had an intimate baby shower in my garden, and the second time around I went for a full bells and whistles extravaganza. But I didn't share the tears, the anguish or the moments when I felt totally overwhelmed.  The perfect pregnancy, birth or journey into motherhood doesn't exist. Nothing is perfect, and once the baby is here that illusion will become all too real.   Yoga was life-changing for me in my second pregnancy. The action of simply sitting and just being is so powerful and healing.   Committing just one hour to myself a week to go and meet other pregnant women and connect with my mind, body and my baby was so beautiful.  Movement releases endorphins and at the six-week mark, once you have been checked by your GP, parent-baby classes yoga or pilates classes are a great idea. Not only will you meet new mothers in your area, but they will help you to gently get your body strength back.   Take your time and do things your way; mistakes happen, but you and your baby will grow stronger together each day in time.   MUSIC IS THERAPY  Music can be uplifting even at the worst of times. I made a birth playlist for my planned C-section and in those scary clinical surroundings, the tunes I selected really helped put mine and my concerned husband's minds at ease.  I remember us even laughing at one point because one of our favourite tracks from the night we met came on.  Making relaxation playlists or a list of tunes that remind you of special occasions like your wedding day or holidays is a great way to spend those long days spent at hospital.  I made a 'happy' playlist after the birth of my first baby and would put it on, go for a walk or even have a dance - it truly helped bring me back to myself.  Sometimes you need to be reminded of who you were before you had all this exhausting responsibility, and there's nothing like a bit of nostalgia to do that.    I also used to sing my baby to sleep every night, which helped me to feel at ease. I still do it now as it's a lovely way for us to bond.   Neev Spencer, an award-winning TV and radio broadcaster and mental health campaigner, hosts her Live Talk: Powerful Baby Brain alongside a panel of experts at The Baby Show, ExCeL London, on February 29. Follow her on Instagram: @neevofficial 
