{ By Caleb Taylor For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  03:09, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8014519/5SOS-guitarist-Michael-Clifford-reveals-proposal-ideas.html }
5 Seconds of Summer guitarist Michael Clifford proposed to his fiancée, model Crystal Leigh, on a clifftop in Bali last year.  And on Tuesday, the 24-year-old revealed the very surprising way he got ideas for the romantic sunset engagement.  Speaking to Nova's Smallzy's Surgery, the musician candidly revealed he searched picture-sharing platform Pinterest for inspiration. 'I was trying to figure out what people do at proposals. I've never seen a proposal, I was like [looking for] cute proposal ideas on like Pinterest,' he said. Michael confessed to bringing the proposal forward after the lovebirds planned a holiday to Indonesia last year.   'We were going on a trip to Bali and I was like oh my god, I should propose, so I had like maybe three weeks to organise it,' he added.   Michael did a spectacular job of the proposal, and shared intimate snaps of the pair soon after he got down on bended knee.    The sweet Instagram snaps showed Crystal crying, as Michael captioned the reveal: 'I was lucky enough to ask the love of my life to marry me.'    The rocker set up a tent and filled it with champagne and photos of the couple, including their very first picture together.   The place where Michael proposed, the Ungasan Clifftop Resort, holds a special significance for the couple as it is where they shared their first kiss. Before asking, 'Will you marry me?' Michael played the song Medicine by The 1975, as that was the song playing when they first locked lips.  Later on, they joined their friends and celebrated with a dinner by the pool.    Michael has previously said he plans to tie-the-knot with Crystal in January 2021, with his famous band mates as his groomsmen.  It comes amid news Five Seconds of Summer will tour their native Australia later this year.  They will bring their No Shame tour Down Under. 
