{ By Heidi Parker For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:06, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8012945/Six-Dollar-Man-star-Lee-Majors-poses-pretty-blonde-spouse.html }
Lee Majors was one of the biggest male stars of the 1970s thanks to his hit TV series The Six Million Dollar Man. He had it all, even the beautiful blonde wife, Farrah Fawcett, who starred on the equally successful Charlie's Angels. And on Saturday night the 80-year-old actor proved he is still looking great as she took his 45-year-old wife Faith - who bares an eerie resemblance to Farrah -  to the Jane Seymour Open Hearts charity gala in Beverly Hills. Lee and Faith wed in 2002. He has three ex wives: He was married to Farrah from 1973 until 1982. Before that there was wife Kathy Robinson whom he was wed to from 1961 until 1964. And then there was Karen Velez, his wife from 1988 until 1994. Last year the actor opened up to People magazine about his nearly 12 year relationship with the Charlie's Angels star Farrah as they were Hollywood's power couple throughout the Seventies. Majors said that he was introduced to Fawcett by his publicist as they shared a coffee together: 'So that started that. It was very quick, and it lasted about almost 12 years. 'But there was a year or so when I think I saw her two weeks in one year. It’s very difficult with careers like that. This business is tough. Working 14 hours a day, both of you, and the days went by.' As he starred in The Six Million Dollar Man while she starred in Charlie's Angels, the two were at the height of their fame in the late Seventies which presented it's own set of difficulties. Lee explained: 'It was hard to get around. It was not quite as hard as it is today with everyone has a cellphone and the social media is so quick. Back then we only had to deal with the paparazzi at large. A lot of time you could evade them, but not all the time.'  The two A-listers were married in 1973 before separating in 1979 ultimately divorcing in 1982. Lee later married Faith Majors in 2002 whom he has been with for more than 23 years as he told People with a smile: 'It is a record in Hollywood.' Sadly, Fawcett died in June 2009 at the age of 62 after a long battle with cancer. At the time UsWeekly claimed Lee called Farrah before she died, breaking an over 20 year silence. 'He decided to call her for the first time on her birthday in February before she died,' said a source. 'They spoke for the first time in 23 years. 'They had a 40-minute phone conversation about her life, and the cancer and it was such a lovely moment for the two of them. I guess it was a very good conversation. They joked, and they got a little bit emotional.' The source added: 'I think it was good given the current situation [for] closure, otherwise they never would've spoken again. I think he always wanted to talk to her again, but he was just afraid to speak to her before.' It was a good night for Jane. She is quite often photographed on the red carpet showing off her incredible figure which she flaunted on Dancing With The Stars during season five. But on Saturday night at her Open Hearts Foundation 10th Anniversary gala held at the SLS Hotel in Los Angeles, the Dr Quinn Medicine Woman star had company. The former Bond girl - she starred with Roger Moore in Live And Let Die - has four children: Katherine, Krisopher, Sean and John. Katherine is 38-years-old and her father is David Flynn, who was wed to Jane from 1981 until 1992. She was once a Golden Globe Awards Ambassador and has appeared in The Suteur in 2008 and Perfectly Prudence in 2011. Sean, a photographer and director, is 34-years-old and his father is also David. Kristopher and John are twins that are both 24-years-old; their father is James Keach, who was wed to Jane from 1993 until 2015. The 69-year-old looker also has stepkids Jenni, who was also at the event with Jane, and Kalen; she is very close with both of them.  The siren- born Joyce Penelope Wilhelmina Frankenberg - also had by her side boyfriend David Green. Green is a longtime friend who started romancing the beauty in 2014.   In 2018 she told DailyMail.com: 'We had been friends first, but fell for each other over lunch one day after we had been, shall we say, released from our marriages,' the Dr Quinn Medicine Woman star said with a laugh. The two also posed for DailyMail.com, showing off their chemistry as they cuddled and laughed while arm-in-arm. The Malibu resident said she has never been more thrilled with her love life. 'We are very happy, he's the best,' the mother-of-four cooed. 'We get along great.' Green, who was educated at Bury Grammar School and Trinity College, Oxford, is an English producer and director. He has worked on the films Car Trouble, Buster, Firebirds and Breathtaking. The two live together in Malibu. Jane also said that they originally met about three decades ago. 'We were introduced about 28 or 30 years ago. He was supposed to direct me in a movie about Mata Hari, which never happened. And we became friends. So we had that bond before we started dating,' said the star. 'We would see each other socially now and then. We stayed in touch. But romance didn't come till four years ago,' the siren said. When asked who made the first move at that lunch in 2014 where sparks flew, she said they both did. 'We made a mutual move on each other over lunch. It's nice to date another Brit in America – as we share the same sense of humour and culture and we have shared friends,' added Jane. In 2012 Jane divorced actor and director James Keach, 67. He was her fourth husband, and is the father of her twin sons John and Kristopher. Jane was also wed to businessman David Flynn. The pair split after 10 years of marriage and had two children Katherine and Sean together. Her first marriage was in 1971 to Michael Attenborough when she was 20-years-old - but that ended in 1973. She was also wed to Geoffrey 'Geep' Planer in 1977, but they parted ways the following year.  Seymour dazzled in a silver sequined floor-length dress with spaghetti straps. She sparkled throughout, pairing the look with various pieces of diamond jewelry, including her signature Open Hearts necklace.   Seymour started the Open Hearts Foundation in 2010 to help growing nonprofits. It was inspired by her mother Mieke Frankenberg, a World War II internment camp survivor. In its first 10 years, the Foundation has invested nearly $1,000,000 in grants to support emerging non-profits that exemplify the Open hearts philosophy.  Also at the Open Hearts event was Caitlyn Jenner. She was seen with her ex Linda Thompson. They split in 1986. Jenner, 70, chose a black long-sleeve knee-length dress for the night out while Thompson, 69, opted for a plush red long-sleeve dress that fell to mid-thigh. Both left their long hair loose and accessorized with necklaces.  The two were married from 1981 to 1986, and share sons Brody and Brandon.    In 2016, Thompson commented on Jenner's transition, explaining that they were in contact. She told Entertainment Tonight: 'I enjoy her very much -- she's the same person, she's the same entity, she's the same living, breathing entity, the same soul, just a different facade.' But Thompson added she had found Caitlyn's transition hard on a personal level. 'But it's kind of difficult, again, to grasp the concept that the man - the very handsome, athletic, muscular man that I fell in love with - is now this lovely, feminine woman, who identifies and thinks like a woman, but did back then too. I just didn't know it.'  For Saturday's party, Caitlyn was joined by her companion Sophia Hutchins, also a trans woman. Hutchins cut a chic look in a plunging sleeveless black jumpsuit, which was tied at the waist. She and Jenner have become close friends since the former Olympian transitioned, Hutchins even appearing on her docuseries I Am Cait. The young beauty entrepreneur recently clarified the nature of their relationship to The New York Times: 'We were never romantically involved.' Brian Austin Green put on a dapper display in a black tweed suit, paired with a black dress shirt.  Lee Majors also suited up in navy blue with a matching tie, as wife Faith Majors stunned in a sparkling black dress. Christi Paul showed some leg in a sleeveless black satin mini dress, which was tied at the hem. Katherine Kelly Lang channeled her inner bad Sandy in a black leather jacket with a matching satin top and high-waisted skinny black pants with gold buttons.  Ashley Jones sported a little black dress, trimmed in lace with cutouts over the chest and midriff.  Katherine Flynn looked ravishing in a red satin wrap dress, featuring a floral embroidery.    
