{ By Faith Ridler For Mailonline   Published:  13:56, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8012547/Queen-Letizia-Spain-looks-chic-knitted-maxi-dress.html }
Queen Letizia of Spain looked polished in a black midi dress as she joined her husband King Felipe for an awards ceremony in Madrid today. The Spanish queen, 47, appeared in high spirits as she arrived at the Royal Palace of El Pardo alongside her husband, 52, for the National Research Awards.  She paired her chic, long-sleeved gown - which feature an elegant asymmetric neckline - with a statement leather belt around her waist and wore knee-high heeled boots for the occasion.   The mother-of-two wore her brunette locks in her typical style - loose around her shoulders and tucked behind her ears - and opted for a light layer of make-up. Letizia completed her stylish ensemble with small silver hoop earrings and a gold ring with a circular design by designer Karen Hallam.  King Felipe also dressed to impress in a dark, pinstripe suit as he sat alongside his wife in the audience at the annual ceremony. He paired his suit with a classic white dress shirt and wore a powder blue tie for the occasion.  The couple were attending the National Research Awards in Madrid - an annual ceremony for innovators in the fields of medicine, biology, engineering, social sciences and humanities.   Later on, they posed with two men and two women who were awarded plaques in the ceremony held at El Pardo Palace.  The ceremony followed a busy week for the royal couple, who attended two engagements in Andalusia in the south of the country on Friday. Letizia and Felipe travelled to Almonte to chair a closing scientific congress, held in the Salvador Távora Theater, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Doñana National Park. Prior to their tour of the natural reserve, the couple stopped in the Plaza Virgen del Rocío, where they were greeted by a patriotic crowd. Letizia and Felipe met with the mayor of Almonte, Rocío del Mar Castellano, who led them through the town. During the visit the queen showed her maternal spirit as she cuddled a baby, while delighted members of the crowd took photographs. The couple travelled through the square until they arrived at the Parish of Our Lady of the Assumption, on the occasion of the Mariano del Rocío Jubilee Year. There they paid homage to the much-venerated Virgin of El Rocío (Virgen del Rocío), a small carved wooden statue of the Virgin and Child. The monument is usually at the Hermitage of El Rocío, the destination of an annual pilgrimage known as the Romería de El Rocío held on the second day of Pentecost, which draws around a million people each year. However, the Virgin is temporarily being held at the cathedral located in the Plaza Virgen del Rocío.  
