medicine
{ By Associated Press   Published:  16:02, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8004863/Ex-coach-No-recollection-discussion-Nassar-abuse.html }
A jury on Friday convicted a former Michigan State University gymnastics coach of lying to police when she denied that two teen athletes told her of sexual abuse by sports doctor Larry Nassar in 1997, nearly 20 years before he was charged. Kathie Klages, 65, was found guilty of a felony and a misdemeanor in a Lansing courthouse where Nassar was sentenced more than two years ago. Klages faces up to four years in prison. She is the second person other than Nassar to be found guilty of charges related to his serial molestation of young women and girls under the guise of medical treatment. Klages resigned in 2017 after she was suspended for defending the since-imprisoned Nassar. Prosecutors said she lied in 2018 when she told investigators that the two young athletes, who were in a campus gymnastics program but not MSU gymnasts, had not reported Nassar´s sexual misconduct to her. Klages testified earlier Friday that she did not remember being told about abuse. She said she was 'shocked' when she first learned in 2017 that one of the teens said she had previously told Klages about Nassar, whom she considered a 'very good friend, professionally.' 'I have no recollection of the conversation,' Klages said. Later, under cross-examination, she said: 'I would think that I would remember something like that. I would think I would.' In closing statements, the prosecution said Klages lied in 2018 when she told investigators that the two young athletes, who were in a campus gymnastics program but not Michigan State gymnasts, had not reported Nassar´s sexual misconduct to her. 'It's not believable that the defendant forgot about being told ... what happened to them,' said Assistant Attorney General Bill Rolstin. 'Kathie Klages should not be rewarded for her lies that she told you today, and she should not be rewarded for lies she told during the MSU investigation trying to get to the bottom of what happened with Larry Nassar.'    Klages was the last witness to testify in her trial. Jurors began deliberating Friday afternoon. She was asked if Nassar had contacted her after the release of a 2016 Indy Star expose where two gymnasts detailed their history with the pedophile doctor, MLive reports. 'He contacted me, I believe it was the day before or the day of and said something was going on and that he wouldn't be around for a while,' Klages said. 'And he said, it's kind of like a sabbatical.'  Klages shared that she was 'shocked' to hear of the allegations, sharing she did not initially believe them as her own family had gone to his practice. Following the report, she gave a 'passionate statement supporting him' during a team meeting.  The former coach then told the court that she had recommended that the women on the team not text each other about the doctor.  'I was concerned about the fact that they might get dragged into this whole mess,' she said when asked why.   On Tuesday, Larissa Boyce testified that when she was 16 and training with the Spartan youth gymnastics team in 1997, she told Klages about Nassar - long before the scandal emerged in 2016.  During her cross examination, Boyce shared that she initially supported Nassar when the allegations against him arose in 2016. She told police that 'pieces of memories' started coming back to her during a visit to the same Jenison Field House where Klages had her office. 'I was 16,' Boyce said, according to MLive. 'I remember telling Kathy (Klages) that Larry was sticking his fingers inside of me and it felt like he was fingering me.' Boyce shared that Klages would not inform her parents or authorities as to what Nassar did. Instead, Boyce testified that Klager 'berated' her and made her feel like she was 'crazy' and a 'liar.' At the time of the incident, Boyce says she also brought up a 14-year-old girl who was abused by Nassar at the time. That woman, now married, also testified on Tuesday that she was touched by Nassar inappropriately during twice-per-week examination. The two girls shared their experiences with Nassar with each other while playing on a trampoline at Boyce's home in 1997. During her testimony, the second witness told the court that she had believed she was in a 'relationship' with Nassar at the time of the abuse. She added that she wanted to keep the abuse a secret, fearing the consequences if she came forward. Both the woman and Boyce tried informing Klages as to what happened at the time in her office. But Boyce testified that Klages brought in a senior gymnasts to discredit them, adding that a formal complaint would mean 'very serious consequences' for Nassar. 'I didn't want to cause problems,' Boyce added. '...I did not want to talk about it ever again. I felt like I was wrong, like I had a dirty mind.' Boyce shared that she returned to the floor mats and started crying. She testified that she and the other girl continued seeing Nassar for treatment and were continuously subjected to abuse. Boyce said she was unaware at the time that Klages and Nassar were friends. 'If I had known, I would have never gone to her,' Boyce said in 2017 at Nassar's trial. Boyce claimed that Nassar actually confronted her about the accusations she told to Klages. But she said she backed off and even apologized after Klages warned her that any complaints about Nassar could cause trouble. Nassar worked at Michigan State and USA Gymnastics, which trains Olympians. He is serving what are effectively life sentences for child porn possession and sexually assaulting young women and girls. More than 300 victims have said he molested them during treatment for back problems and other injuries. In August, Nassar's former supervisor at Michigan State, ex-College of Osteopathic Medicine Dean William Strampel, was sentenced to jail for crimes including neglecting a duty to enforce protocols on Nassar after a patient complained about sexual contact in 2014. Former Michigan State President Lou Anna Simon has been ordered to trial on charges of lying to police, but it is unclear when the trial may begin. 
