medicine
{ By Reuters and Chris Pleasance for MailOnline    Published:  08:58, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8003459/Chinese-company-sprays-disinfectant-staff-combat-coronavirus-outbreak.html }
Workers at an industrial complex in the Chinese city of Chongqing are being sprayed with disinfectant as they arrive for work in an attempt to battle the coronavirus.  A company based in the complex has built a tunnel fitted with infrared sensors that sprays workers as they walk through it on the way to their jobs. Businesses in China are slowly returning to work this week after the coronavirus outbreak forced an extension of the Lunar New Year holiday.  China on Friday reported another 5,090 new coronavirus cases and confirmed that another 121 people had died from the virus, officially named COVID19. The health authority said an accumulated total of 63,851 people have been infected by the coronavirus.  As many as 55,748 are currently undergoing treatment, while 1,380 people have died. Hubei province, which is at the epicentre of the outbreak, earlier reported 4,823 new cases with 116 deaths. Heilongjiang province in the northeast reported two new deaths, with the other fatalities in the provinces of Anhui and Henan and the municipality of Chongqing. China has been forced to rapidly construct new infrastructure to deal with coronavirus, after the health network was overwhelmed by the number of cases. The city of Wuhan constructed a dedicated 1,000-bed coronavirus hospital from scratch in just 10 days, before converting almost a dozen other sports halls and exhibition centres into wards overnight. Wuhan is ground zero for the new coronavirus, which began spreading via a meat market in the city last year. The outbreak became significantly worse over the Lunar New Year, when millions of Chinese travel between cities for celebrations with family members. The holiday is believed to be the largest annual human migration. It was then confirmed that the disease had gone airborne, and was able to transmit between patients through sneezing and coughing. Scientists then confirmed that the virus has a 14-day incubation period, where sufferers are contagious but do not show symptoms, making it harder to contain. The virus has since spread to more than 30 countries around the world in one of the most serious outbreaks of a disease in recent years. It has already killed more people than the SARS outbreak of 2003, with world health authorities warning that the current outbreak is far from over. It is not yet clear where the virus came from, although bats and pangolins - which are consumed as part of traditional Chinese medicine - have been blamed. 
