{ By Sean O'grady For Mailonline   Published:  01:57, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8002499/Kelly-Osbourne-steps-navy-coat-purple-hairdo-steps-LA.html }
She recently opened up about her father Ozzy's Parkinson’s diagnosis, saying it has brought them closer together. And Kelly Osbourne cut a casual figure as she stepped out for a stroll in Los Angeles on Thursday. The media personality, 35, displayed her quirky sense of style as she emerged from her car with her bright purple hairdo. The singer donned a navy coat for the day, pairing it with  a white and burgundy striped long-sleeved top. Kelly also sported a pair of slim-fitting grey jeans and completed her outfit with a pair of faux-fur lined sliders. Kelly was joined by a group of friends and was seen hugging a male pal on the outing. It comes after Kelly opened up about her father's battle with Parkinson's disease.  'Everyone is acting like it’s doomsday but it’s not. Life happens and everybody gets dealt a different set of cards, and it depends how you play it,' she told the Daily Mirror. 'We take every day as it comes and he is doing incredible. We couldn’t have got much closer, but we did. Everyone is acting like it is doomsday, it’s not. It’s just something we have to deal with.' Kelly claimed Ozzy was originally planning to join her at the Oscars, but opted to snub the event in favour of staying home and eating a takeaway. She added: 'He was going to come, but then he was like, "I don’t want to get dressed up". He was at home eating curry and I was thinking, "I kind of wish I could stay with you right now!"' Kelly also spoke about Sir Elton John, and said he had been a rock to the Osbourne family - which also includes Ozzy’s wife Sharon, their son Jack, and other daughter Aimee - for years. She said: 'Elton is a very, very important part of my family. He has been there through thick and thin – since before I was even born. He is not just a friend, he is family.' Sadly for the Osbourne family, Ozzy’s Parkinson’s - which he was diagnosed with last year, but only announced publicly last month - is not the first health scare they’ve endured, as Sharon has fought off cancer in the past, and Jack has been diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis (MS). Kelly said: 'We dealt with [Jack’s MS], we dealt with Mum’s cancer and now we’ll deal with Dad’s Parkinson’s.' Ozzy previously insisted he 'won't be here much longer' while detailing his Parkinson's battle in a new interview. Hailing music as 'the best medicine', the singer and songwriter told Kerrang magazine: 'I won’t be here in another 15 years or whatever, not that much longer, but I don’t dwell on it.' 'Do I ever think about when my time’s gonna come? I think about it, I don’t worry about it', the musician candidly said in Kerrang! magazine. The Osbournes star elaborated on his outlook on life since discovering his condition as he added: 'It’s gonna happen to us all. Am I happy now? No. I haven’t got my health. That thing knocked the s*** out of me, man, but I’m still here.' Parkinson's causes muscle stiffness, slowness of movement, tremors, sleep disturbance, chronic fatigue, an impaired quality of life and can lead to severe disability. It is a progressive neurological condition that destroys cells in the part of the brain that controls movement. The media personality shocked fans when he revealed that he has Parkinson's in an emotional interview with his wife Sharon. Speaking to Good Morning America, he admitted he could no longer hide his health struggles and that he is on a 'whole host' of medications to treat his nerve pain. The common disease, he said, began when he suffered a fall last year and started experiencing nerve pain. Insisting he was 'far from' his deathbed - as had been misreported - the singer said he wanted to 'own up' to his condition for the sake of his fans. 'It has been terribly challenging for us,' Ozzy said of the last year. 'I had to have surgery on my neck which screwed all my nerves. I found out that I have a mild form of....' he said before looking to his wife to finish his sentence. Former X Factor judge Sharon added: 'It's Parkin 2 which is a form of Parkinson's. There are so many different types of Parkinson's. Earlier in the month, Ozzy told reporters at the Grammy Awards that the last year of his life has been 'hell'. The rocker, who also battled pneumonia in 2019, said: 'This last year has been hell for me. I've had surgery on my neck. I've announced to the world that I've got Parkinson's. It's been one rock 'n' roll year for me.' However, the Crazy Train hitmaker has vowed to one day return to the stage as he continued: 'If I'm well enough I'll work towards it. 'I'm having physical therapy every day, five days a week. I'm trying, doing the best I can. Neck surgery's not easy.' Meanwhile, his daughter Kelly, 35, also shared kind words about her father, as she said: 'Seeing how far Dad's come this year and how far he's come in the last week alone has just been incredible. 'I think coming out and telling his truth has been a weight lifted off of his shoulders. And even like his physical therapist is saying how far you have moved forward in this last week is insane.' The number of people diagnosed with Parkinson's in the UK is about 145,000, while the condition affects one million Americans a year.  It causes muscle stiffness, slowness of movement, tremors, sleep disturbance, chronic fatigue, an impaired quality of life and can lead to severe disability. It is a progressive neurological condition that destroys cells in the part of the brain that controls movement. Sufferers are known to have diminished supplies of dopamine because nerve cells that make it have died. There is currently no cure and no way of stopping the progression of the disease, but hundreds of scientific trials are underway to try and change that.  In the US, physicians consider it largely one type of condition with various stages; young onset Parkinson's or atypical Parkinson's.  In Europe, some doctors and researchers specify different types of the condition.  Treatment is mostly made up of medication. In some cases, doctors perform Deep Brain Stimulation surgery to try to hit the nerves more directly.  Source: Parkinson's UK  
