medicine
{ By Hannah Skellern For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:12, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8000485/Pediatrician-revealed-suicide-note-didnt-immunize-children-anti-vaxxer-parents.html }
A doctor who took his own life confessed in his suicide note that he falsified medical records  — and may not have given out vaccinations — for up to a decade, according to reports. Parents with children who were patients of the pediatrician in Illinois have been urged to check if they were vaccinated.  The 58-year-old pediatrician who ran a practice in Evergreen Park is believed to have faked documentation for anti-vaxxer parents so they could falsely claim their children had received immunizations, Cook County Sheriff Tom Dart said. The doctor, who died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound in September, left a note  indicating his remorse, the Chicago Tribune reported.  'He was well known for being someone who was into homeopathic medicine, and from what we have determined, it was well known that people opposed to vaccination could go to him,' Dart said.  To gain a school place in Illinois, students are required by law — excepted in cases where there are religious objections or medical conditions — to provide proof of vaccination for preventable communicable diseases.  While there was no evidence that Koinis had been giving out fake vaccinations against parents' wishes, Dart encouraged parents to check to ensure their children had received the proper vaccinations.  As of Thursday Alzein Pediatrics, the recipients of medical records for the practice at 3830 West 95th Street in Evergreen Park, had a pop-up on its website inviting patients of Koinis to get hold of their records. Video courtesy of WGN  'Was your child a patient of Dr. Koinis?' it reads. 'Click here to download the Medical Records Release form.'  The Chicago Tribune reported that Alzein Pediatrics referred questions to Little Company of Mary Hospital in Evergreen Park, where the doctor's obituary said he also worked as well as Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn.         Dart told WBBM that the suicide left by the pediatrician was 'incredibly regretful'. 'The note was very short. It was a note where he expressed a lot of regret and the note was solely driven at the fact that he did things he regretted as far as the vaccinations.' the sheriff told the station. 'He was incredibly regretful for what he did and it was the only thing he mentioned in the suicide note. It was this and only this.'   'There seems to be an overarching depression that was driven by years of not vaccinating people properly. We were not able to nail it down any further. That was the sole reason he gave for this,' WBBM reported. Dart told the Chicago Tribune that it was not yet clear how widespread the doctor's apparent deception may have been, but that his suicide note mentioned it dating back almost ten years.  'We got some answers, but not nearly enough to have complete clarity on what exactly caused this and what he was referencing,' he said.   Koinis had been licensed to practice in Illinois since 1991, according to state records cited by the newspaper. 'I don't care about your personal feelings on vaccinations, kids need them,' Dart told the Tribune. 'You can't waive them arbitrarily. You clearly can't forge documents or encourage them to be forged and pass them on, so we're moving along that track.' Dart said, however, that Koinis had been respected in the community during his lifetime. He told WGNTV 9: 'A person that was very well-respected, well-liked doctor for many, many years committed suicide and left a note that was very clear that he had horrible regrets for how acted  No charges have been filed in the suspected conspiracy to falsify vaccination records an investigation is underway, authorities said.     
