medicine
{ By Ryan Morrison For Mailonline    Published:  16:33, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-8000695/Astronauts-ISS-faster-internet-thanks-British-invention.html }
Astronauts on the ISS will get faster internet and better communication with Earth thanks to a 'revolutionary' new British invention. The 'Columbus Ka-band Terminal' (COLKa) will bring 'home broadband' speeds of up to 50 Megabits per second to the space station.  The contract for designing and building the fridge-sized device was awarded to MDA Space and Robotics Limited, a communications company based in Oxfordshire. A Cygnus supply ship will carry COLKa from Wallops Island in Virginia, USA up to the International Space Station just before 21:00 GMT on Friday. It is the first British industrial contribution to the International Space Station.  The communications device is expected to be installed later this year outside the Columbus module - which is the ISS's science laboratory.  It's data will then have a bit of a roundtrip - it will go from COLKa, transmitted to a ground station at Harwell in Oxfordshire where MDA is based then on to Germany. It is going on to Germany as that is where the Columbus Control Centre is based and will allow data from experiments to be distributed across Europe. The Columbus module on the ISS was conceived and designed over 20 years ago, when the internet was in its infancy.  The laboratory was launched to the Station in 2008 and uses it's network and NASA’s infrastructure for communications with the Germany based control centre.  The upgrade will ensure faster communications, independent from the NASA system, the UK Space Agency said.   Dr Graham Turnock, chief executive of the UK Space Agency, said it would 'revolutionise' the ability of scientists from the UK and Europe to access the results of their experiments running on the station. According to the European Space Agency, ColKa will allow 'astronauts and researchers to benefit from a direct link with Europe at home broadband speeds'.  The contract was awarded to MDA following the UK Space Agency's investment of £40m in ESA's space exploration programme in 2012.  The know-how gained from designing, building and running COLKa could be used for ESA’s communications package that is being designed for the Lunar Gateway – an outpost over 1,000 times further from Earth than the International Space Station.  The Gateway is being developed by NASA, with support from ESA and other agencies, as a staging post for missions to the Moon.  In November 2019 the UK committed a further £180 million to the global exploration programme run by the European Space Agency including the Lunar Gateway. Dr Turnock says the UK involvement and funding for ESA will also include work on a project to bring back rock samples from Mars and another to clear space junk. 'This is yet another example of the UK economy benefiting, through investment, jobs and new skills, from our collaboration with the European Space Agency,' he said. David Kenyon, Director of MDA UK based in Harwell, which designed and built COLKa, said it firmly established the UK as a leading provider of space equipment. He said it positioned the UK as a place for 'continued business growth and new jobs in both communications and space sensor markets.' The International Space Station (ISS) is a $100 billion (£80 billion) science and engineering laboratory that orbits 250 miles (400 km) above Earth. It has been permanently staffed by rotating crews of astronauts and cosmonauts since November 2000.  Research conducted aboard the ISS often requires one or more of the unusual conditions present in low Earth orbit, such as low-gravity or oxygen. ISS studies have investigated human research, space medicine, life sciences, physical sciences, astronomy and meteorology. The US space agency, Nasa, spends about $3 billion (£2.4 billion) a year on the space station program, a level of funding that is endorsed by the Trump administration and Congress. A U.S. House of Representatives committee that oversees Nasa has begun looking at whether to extend the program beyond 2024. Alternatively the money could be used to speed up planned human space initiatives to the moon and Mars. 
