medicine
{ By Carly Stern For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:53, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8038881/Jill-Duggar-enrolls-oldest-son-PUBLIC-SCHOOL-shes-family-so.html }
Jill Duggar has made another move to differentiate herself from the rest of her family: While she and her siblings were all homeschooled, the former Counting On star has just enrolled her oldest son in kindergarten. Jill, 28, made the surprising announcement on Instagram on Saturday, sharing a photo of four-year-old Israel posing with a huge smile on his face. 'Look who’s registered for kindergarten!' she wrote, later adding in a comment: 'He's so excited!' Israel, who turns five on April 6 and will likely be starting classes in August or September, seems to be thrilled about the big-boy move. 'He was just talking with a friend the other day telling them about his new school," Jill gushed to commenters. 'He's looking forward to it for sure!' Taking to the family blog, Jill went on: 'It’s hard to believe he will be five this year! We have already been homeschooling him some, but decided it would be fun to let him go to kindergarten this year.  'It’s extra special because it’s the same school district Derick enrolled in over 25 years ago,' she added, uploading a video showing the family at registration. Derick was also quite excited, writing: 'Proud moment as Israel got registered for kindergarten this week.' Starting a child off on a path of public school education is a natural move for Derick, who attended public school himself before getting an accounting degree at Oklahoma State University. He was also active on campus, dressing up as the school mascot, joining the honor society Beta Alpha Psi, and playing in the marching and spirit bands. Now he is perusing a law degree at The School of Law at the University of Arkansas. But it's a major departure for Jill, who, along with her 18 siblings, was homeschooled. In an interview with the Christian homeschool curriculum publisher AOP, Jill's mother Michelle said her kids spent just four hours homeschooling in 'core subjects' while growing up, with additional time spent on music lessons. They followed a Christian curriculum from The Institute in Basic Life Principles called Advanced Training Institute International, which is described as a 'biblically based' program.  With Michelle, the older kids would cover topics like 'science, history, law, or medicine,' but would also 'memorize Scripture, learn hymns, and study godly character qualities.'  But with 19 kids of varying ages, Michelle couldn't possibly teach them all — so older kids were responsible for teaching the younger ones.  'We've adopted the biblical Titus 2 organizational principles of older children teaching the younger,' she said. 'Working within an assigned buddy system, each of our older children assists in helping with the needs of a younger sibling.'  So while Jill, as one of the oldest siblings, likely spent her early years learning directly from mom, as she grew older she was expected to teach — and many of her younger siblings were predominantly taught by her, Jessa, Jana, and the other oldest kids. Jill's acquiescence in following her husband's example and sending Israel — who also has a younger brother, Samuel — to public school makes her the first of her siblings to do so. Jill's oldest brother, sex pest Josh, has six kids with his wife Anna. Ten-year-old Mackynzie, eight-year-old Michael, and six-year-old Marcus are all already school age, but are homeschooled by their mom. Meanwhile, Jill's sister Jessa and her husband Ben Seewald haven't said definitively whether or not they will homeschool four-year-old Spurgeon, two-year-old Henry, or nine-month-old Ivy. The other children are also still too young for school: Joy Anna and Austin Forsyth's two-year-old son Gideon, Jinger and Jeremy Vuolo's one-year-old daughter Felicity, Joe and Kendra's one-year-old son Garrett four-month-old daughter Addison, Josiah and Lauren's three-month-old daughter Bella, and John David and Abbie's one-month-old daughter Grace. Duggar-watchers have speculated that most will follow Jim Bob and Michelle's example, perhaps with the exception of Jinger and Jeremy. Like Derick, Jeremy also attended public school and has a degree.  But Jill has set a precedent for breaking with her parents' super-strict teachings. Though she is a stay-at-home mother, she has only had two kids, with her youngest already two-and-a-half. (Most of her siblings, meanwhile, have had more babies in quick succession.) Derick had indicated on Instagram that they may use birth control, something that Jill's parents have preached against.  She is also more lax on modesty standards when it comes to clothes, wearing pants and even denim shorts. Nearly all of the other Duggar women — except Jinger —exclusively wear dresses and skirts. Jill also has a nose ring, and recently cut her hair to a few inches longer than shoulder length — remarkably short for Duggar women, who subscribe to the idea that a woman's hair is her crowning glory and should be long.  What's more, Jill has spoken openly about sex in a way that is a major departure for her family. Though she and Derick waited until their wedding day to share their first kids — and, naturally, everything else — Jill now promotes sex games and books on social media, sharing pictures of an abridged version of the Kama Sutra and encouraging married couples to 'have sex often.' All of these factors unfortunately may have contributed to a rift in the family, especially in regards to the iron fist of patriarch Jim Bob.  Jill and Derick didn't spend Christmas at her parents house, though most of the rest of the family was there.  When a fan asked whether they ever spend time with Jill's family, Derick dropped a bombshell. 'Yes, but it's just harder now because we're not allowed at the house when JB isn't there,' he said. 'Jill even had to ask JB permission to go over to the house to help her sister when she was in labor because her sister wanted her help, but Jill couldn't provide the assistance until we got it cleared with JB.' Derick was referring to Jill's sister Jessa, who gave birth to daughter Ivy Jane in May. Jill, a midwife, helped with the delivery — though it seems her involvement didn't come as smoothly as it seemed on camera. Though Jill did appear on screen in Jessa's birth episode, she and Derick are otherwise absent from Counting On. 'We're not on 19 Kids and Counting anymore,' he said. 'We've only made guest appearances over the years for wedding, birth, etc.,' he added. 'We've never had any contact with TLC hence not knowing there was a contract. Nobody from TLC has even mentioned to us what they would prefer we say or not say.' But leaving the show, he said, wasn't easy.  'We were made to believe we didn't have a choice and that we would be sued if we refused [to film],' he said. 'However, once we became more enlightened, we realized that we could easily defend ourselves against a lawsuit from the family/TLC. 'We were pressured to think that we were required to and that we would get sued if we didn't.  'It's not going to look good for TLC when it's exposed that they pressured an abuse victim to continue filming when we tried to quit, just so they could continue with Jill & Jessa: Counting On after 19K&C.' In 2015, Jill famously came out as one of the molestation victims of her older brother Josh, 31.  When Josh was a teenager, he admitted to touching the chest area and genitals of four of his younger sisters, as well as a family friend, and was subsequently sent away from counseling — though the seedy family history was buried until 2015, when inTouch unearthed an old police report. Jill and Jessa both came forward as two of Josh's victims, submitting to an interview with Megyn Kelly on Fox News in which they defended their big brother.  But Derick's comments shed new light on that interview, indicating that Jill may not have wanted to participate but felt powerless to opt out. Interestingly, Josh doesn't appear face similar rules governing when he can be at his parents' house, despite the fact that he once admitted to molesting his sisters. In fact, he, Anna, and their children reportedly live on the compound, and are more frequently seen in family photos and Instagram videos posted on the @DuggarFam Instagram account. Commenting on Instagram in December, Derick also doubled down on his previous claim that only Jim Bob ever had a contract with TLC — and only he received any payment. 'All of the shows have been under his contract, and he is the only one with a contract,' he said. He also speculated that Jill's siblings may continue to film because they are being 'pressured into submission with threats of lawsuits' or else they are 'too deep into it/dependent.' Derick had previously said on Twitter that TLC wouldn't release them from a 'bogus contract,' though in his latest comments, he didn't shed more light on that claim.   
