medicine
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  02:28, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7998235/SA-nuclear-waste-dump-plan-hits-parliament.html }
Draft laws to turn a South Australian farm into a nuclear waste site have been dumped on federal parliament. The proposal will provide a "safer and secure" option compared to the current storing of nuclear waste at more than 100 locations, Resources Minister Keith Pitt said on Thursday. The Napandee property near Kimba, on Eyre Peninsula, was announced as the radioactive waste site less than two weeks ago. The government has introduced underpinning laws to allow the acquisition of more land for the facility as well as a $20 million payment for the community to help establish and maintain the site. Kimba was chosen after a four-year process and is expected to be a nuclear waste dump for 100 years. Mr Pitt said the facility would store radioactive waste which is mainly from nuclear medicine. "Establishment of the facility in Napandee will provide for the safe and effective management of Australia's radioactive waste and support the long-term social and economic sustainability of the Kimba community," he said. South Australian Premier Steven Marshall said it was a vexed issue but it was time to move forward now a decision had been made. "It's been an issue that's dragged on for a long time now," Mr Marshall said. "Finally, a decision has been made and we now get on with it. "The process was very clear and has been clear for about six years now." Environmental and indigenous groups oppose the dump, but a recent poll conducted around Kimba returned a 62 per cent vote in favour of the facility. About 45 people will be employed at the site, which will store low-level waste permanently and intermediate-level waste temporarily. Native title has been extinguished at the site but the government insists it wants to protect indigenous cultural heritage and work with the Aboriginal community near the facility. When the Napandee site was chosen, owner Jeff Baldock welcomed the plan and urged the government to move forward. He said it was a "once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to secure Kimba's future" and the waste facility would potentially provide jobs and much-needed revenue for the region. "It's very rare that a small country community gets the chance to guarantee that it's still going to be here in 300 years time," he said. "We're always looking for ways to attract new industry and try and boost our local community." The draft laws will be considered by a parliamentary committee so stakeholders can give feedback on the proposal. 
