medicine
{ By Ann Cusack For Mailonline   Published:  15:41, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7990813/Mother-two-investigated-13-year-old-daughters-ecstasy-overdose-tracked-drug-dealers.html }
A grieving mother, whose 13-year-old daughter died tragically after consuming a drink laced with ecstasy, has revealed how she tracked down local drug dealers herself, in a bid to find the killer. Eboney Cheshire, from Rainhill, Merseyside, became one of Britain’s youngest ecstasy victims when she died in December 2018, aged just 13 after drinking Lucozade containing MDMA.  Her devastated mother, Kerry Williams, has revealed in a hard-hitting documentary from Vice how she carrried out a ‘do-it-yourself’ investigation after she says Merseyside Police failed to resond for nearly a year after Eboney died: `Police haven't visited me once.'  In Vice's High Society, the mother reveals that she received anonymous tips from teenagers which led her to find out that her daughter had likely acquired drugs from a dealing gang operating on Instagram.  Scroll down for video   Mother of two, Kerry, 41 , said: 'I had no visits from police. They wouldn’t take my calls and they didn’t seem interested in my little girl. 'I had to get together with my friends and neighbours and trawl the internet and walk the streets looking for answers.' In the film Kerry plays a recording of a phone call when an officer tells her: 'It looks like this job has fallen through the net in that it has fallen into a pool of jobs currently not being handled by anybody.' Kerry added: 'These dealers need investigating, but I haven’t got the means and resources to be doing that. 'That’s the police’s job, but they are not doing it.'   Merseyside Police say that the officer contacted was not a part of the investigating team and this was a one-off call that did not reflect the investigation, which they say started immediately after Eboney’s death.  Kerry gave up her job for almost a year to campaign for the truth into her daughter’s death; trawling the streets, handing out leaflets and tracking down drug dealing gangs. Through a series of anonymous tip-offs, she tracked down ruthless dealers who are peddling drugs to kids over social media. In the film, Kerry claims the gang, who have branded themselves ‘The Happy Dayz Crew’ are selling Ecstasy, MDMA, cannabis and other street drugs over social media sites. 'I just want to know what happened – I want to know why my daughter died. I’ve met with drug dealers, I’ve put posters up, I’ve put myself in danger, – but I won’t stop until I get the truth,' said Kerry. 'I had no idea Eboney had ever even taken a drug in her life. She had never been in any trouble.' Eboney was Kerry’s only daughter and was a bright, chatty girl who dreamed of becoming a doctor. Kerry, who also has an older son, Leon, 18, said: 'My parents used to look after Eboney whilst I was working, and they would read to her and teach her the capitals and the flags of the world. She had a fabulous general knowledge. 'She wanted to do medicine after school, and I think she would have made it. “She was a beautiful girl too; she was just getting into wearing make-up and clothes when she died. 'She had a lovely group of friends; of course, there were bad influences at school, which I tried to steer Eboney away from, but I had no serious concerns about her.' Kerry relived the moment she found her teenage daughter foaming at the mouth fitting in her bedroom. 'Something made me get up and go and check on her,' said Kerry. 'I walked to her bedroom and opened the door and she was having a seizure. I went into panic. She was in the dark, in bed. Her eyes were rolling to the back of her head. 'I dialled 999 and before I knew it my house was full of paramedics and police. 'They were trying to get her heart beating, trying to bring her back to life. 'The ambulance people came and I just saw Eboney on a stretcher as they were resuscitating her.' Eboney’s temperature hit 40°C as paramedics fought to help her. She was rushed to hospital with Kerry, where she died four hours later. Kerry says: 'I was in complete shock. My family came to the hospital and we were all devastated.' Kerry felt sure Eboney’s death must be connected to a cold virus she’d had – but doctors said she appeared to have suffered a fatal reaction to something she had taken. 'I was racking my brains, wondering what on earth she could have taken. But I just had no idea.' Tests finally revealed her cause of death to be Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) toxicity. MDMA is more commonly known as ecstasy. In the aftermath of Eboney’s death police searched her room and found no traces of the drug, or anything else that could have been suspicious. But Kerry found a bottle of Lucozade in her room that was subsequently found to have MDMA powder in it. She added: 'We set up a Facebook page for people to remember Eboney, but it quickly turned into a justice site. 'People started calling and messaging with information. 'I have been told that there are quite a number of teenagers taking this stuff. There have been quite a few deaths around the Liverpool area. 'People came forward to tell me that there are gangs selling this on social media and maybe Eboney got the drugs from there, we just don’t know for sure. 'I went to confront these dealers and find out what happened to my little girl. 'I have been over and over the hours before her death and it makes no sense. CCTV shows her in the local shop, around 7.30pm, buying sweets and a drink. 'I can only think she met with someone on the way to the shop – maybe she was spiked or maybe she fell prey to drug dealers. 'But why would Eboney take a drug, on her way home, just before bed? 'She had never taken drugs. She had never been in any trouble. It was a massive shock. 'I felt so guilty – why hadn’t I spotted any signs or symptoms? I am a trained medical professional, yet I didn’t realise my own daughter had taken a drug and she was in danger.' The police investigation into Eboney’s death has brought no arrests and the family are still desperate for answers. Kerry says: 'My campaign won’t stop until I have the answers I need. 'I’ve had calls from children at the school, giving me information about kids buying drugs over social media from a local source. I am very close to the truth. 'But until justice is done, my fight will go on.' Detective Chief Inspector Martin Earl said: 'We continue to investigate the tragic death of Eboney, and remain as determined as ever to find out who was responsible for supplying the drugs which took her life. This has been an unbearably difficult time for Eboney's family, and we’re doing all we can to see justice is done. 'A Family Liaison Officer (FLO) remains in place and we provide regular updates to the family, and working with Kerry and other family members carried out media interviews last December, one year on from her passing. 'We understand and share their frustration that nobody has been arrested and charged, but it vital that all of those who hold information share it with police. 'There are a number of active lines of enquiry and we’re sure that people within her friendship groups or the wider community may still hold vital information to help our investigation. We will take positive action on everything provided. 'This includes any information on people who contacted Eboney via messaging or social media, or saw her in the area on the afternoon or early evening of Sunday 2 December. We think she was with a girl near to her home in Sandon Close on the Sunday afternoon, and still need to speak to this person as a matter of priority. 'People who know something may now feel more comfortable about coming forward, or be in a different situation. Tell us what you know and we'll take the appropriate action, whether you come forward directly or anonymously, and we'll treat all information sensitively.' Anyone with information is asked to contact our social media desk @MerPolCC or you can call 101 with reference 1163 of 2 December 2018. Information can also be provided via the independent charity Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.   
