{ By MailOnline Reporter   Published:  14:32, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//galleries/article-7991313/Meet-mammoth-tusk-pirates.html }
Russian miners are risking their lives and making a fortune by unearthing prehistoric woolly mammoth tusks preserved in the permafrost and selling them for thousands on the Asian 'ethical ivory' market. Scroll through to see the fascinating images of these tuskers as they imperil themselves in search of 'white gold'... They bore 200ft tunnels into hillsides along the Yakutia river, about 4,300 miles east of Moscow, searching for the 'white gold' which, once carved, can fetch up to $1 million. Mammoth tusks were considered for protected status by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (Cites) last year, in an attempt to limit this trade. The miners, who spend around five months searching for the remains in the Russian wilderness, also sell the tusks of woolly rhinos, worth more than their weight in gold, which are ground up to be sold as medicine in Vietnam. Pictured here, a miner holding a woolly rhino horn.  Woolly rhino tusks, also sealed in the permafrost, can also be sold to traders. They are ground down into powder before being sold on the Vietnamese medicine market.  Despite the stories of getting rich quick, however, most miners - or tuskers as they are also known - go home with nothing. Dr Valery Platnikov, a paleontologist familiar with tusking sites, said that 'only around 20 to 30 per cent of tuskers will find something significant enough to make a profit'. 'It's very sad,' he said, 'a lot of these guys have taken out bank loans to pay for these expeditions'.  A map showing the location of the world's permafrost and Yakutsk, where these were recovered. The caves tunneled out by the miners. Many are at risk as these could collapse on top of them at any moment. The miners also employ look outs, in case police turn up. The fine is relatively small - at $45 - but landing three of these could leave a miner facing serious charges. There are mammoth mining licenses but in recent years Chinese traders have turned more and more to the black market, as legal miners have not delivered enough ivory, reports Wired. To keep the expedition cheap, tuskers use Soviet-era Buran snowmobile engines, converted into water pumps for mining and remain at the camps throughout the season.  The bones and tusks have survived as they were entombed in the frozen permafrost, which has stopped organisms from breaking them down. This woolly rhino skull is being used to help prop up a kettle. Its horn is highly prized. A tent that the miners lived in. They can stay in the area for up to five months searching for the horns and tusks that could make them rich. Once mined, the horns are often ornately carved. This set could go on sale for around $1million in Hong Kong. 
