{ By Sophie Haslett For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  04:44, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7989491/Elle-Macpherson-launches-new-range-libido-endurance-boosters-boost-bedroom-stamina.html }
Supermodel and wellness entrepreneur Elle Macpherson has devised a range of 'libido and endurance' boosters which are designed to keep couple's libidos going for longer in the bedroom. The 55-year-old founder of Welleco believes her new 'Super Booster' products will 'make you feel better than an aphrodisiac', and each $90 packet comes with 14 days worth of sachets.  With two supplement formulas - one for women and one for men - the Super Boosters are designed to maintain healthy reproductive hormones and a good libido.  'Hormonal energy slumps can occur in me for lots of different reasons,' Elle said. 'When I am feeling down or stressed, I add Women's Libido + Hormone Support to water or combine with my daily Super Elixir.  'It's a blend of herbs that really help balance my hormones naturally and stabilise energy levels and libido. And it tastes deliciously of fresh raspberries and peach flesh!' Helps support emotional wellbeing Traditionally used in Peruvian medicine to support healthy libido and healthy sexual function Relieves symptoms of menopause  Enhances the body's adaptation to stress Traditionally used in Peruvian medicine to support healthy mood balance  Promotes stamina Supports prostate health Helps maintain healthy prostate function Supports sperm health, motility and production The female version, The Super Booster Women's Libido + Hormone Support, contains Red Clover extract, maca extract and raspberry and holy basil leaf. Each of these ingredients is said to help support energy levels and healthy libido as well as enhance the body's adaptation to stress. The men's version has a similar makeup, and features rye flower pollen extract, Peruvian maca extract, schisandra and horny goat weed. These ingredients are said to help with prostate health, physical endurance and stamina and libido.  To use the product, Welleco recommends you simply mix one sachet a day with 250 millilitres of water and stir well.  Those who have tried it already are impressed with the results. One person posted on Instagram: 'My other half already has this new booster, more energy and other benefits'. Another added: 'Finally, something for the boys too!'  For more information about Welleco's powders, please click here.   
