medicine
{ By Leah Simpson For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:40, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7987605/Airmen-dismissed-theyre-HIV-positive-fight-stay-Air-Force-kind-case.html }
Two young HIV-positive airmen are fighting to stay in the Air Force after they were dismissed on the grounds they were 'unable to reasonably perform' because their condition prevents them from deploying to the U.S. Central Command's area of responsibility. Under the Trump administration, HIV-positive military members may not enlist or become an officer and Central Command - which governs military operations in the Middle East, North Africa and Central Asia - prohibits personnel with HIV from deploying without a waiver.  But the anonymous airmen - referred to in lawsuit as Victor Voe and Richard Roe - said they couldn't apply for a waiver as when they were diagnosed during the process of fitness evaluation.  Their lawsuit argues those who contract HIV cannot be dismissed solely on the basis of the condition.  It argues on the basis of discrimination, stating that 'our military treats Service members' wounds and illnesses, and, when able, they continue to serve' but service members with HIV 'do not enjoy the same treatment'.  The two anonymous men say in the first-of-its kind lawsuit against the United States Military filed on December 19, 2018, that major advancements in treatment mean they can easily be given appropriate medical care and present no real risk of transmission to others.  They both take antiretroviral medication and have undetectable HIV.  While acknowledging that treatment decreases the risk of transmitting HIV, the DOJ argued that the risk is amplified on the battlefield where soldiers often come into contact with blood.  They initially stated in legal documents that the men were 'unable to reasonably perform' as they wouldn't be able to go where most airmen are expected to go. An attorney for the airmen argued during a hearing last September that the odds of transmitting HIV in combat are infinitesimal and should not limit their deployment or lead to their discharge. Last month the U.S. District Court judge in Maryland issued a preliminary injunction after finding that the Air Force is working under 'irrational' and 'outdated' policies. A three-judge panel of the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the injunction will remain in place while the men challenge their discharges at a trial, stating, that 'any understanding of HIV that could justify this ban is outmoded and at odds with current science'.  'Such obsolete understandings cannot justify a ban, even under a deferential standard of review and even according appropriate deference to the military´s professional judgments,' Judge James Wynn Jr. wrote in the unanimous ruling.  Despite the major victory for the plaintiffs, the DOJ could ask for a rehearing before the full 4th Circuit Court or could appeal the panel's ruling to the U.S. Supreme Court. Scott Schoettes, counsel and HIV project director at non-profit group Lambda Legal, thinks its unlikely the DOJ will appeal because it 'doesn't generally happen' after a unanimous decision.  'I'm pretty sure we will end up back down at trial where we get to prove our claims and ensure that the service members can continue to serve,' Schoettes told ABC News.  Schoette - whose non-profit organization represents Voe and Roe - has warned 'there is more fight ahead' for the 1,200 people the Modern Military Association of America estimates live with HIV in the military.  'Our adversary in this case is the military itself and its current leadership, which seems not to be willing to actually accept or grapple with what these changes in the medicine mean for people living with HIV and their ability to serve,' Schoettes told ABC News.   But Schoettes - who also represents plaintiffs in two other lawsuits that similarly challenge the Pentagon's 'discriminatory discharge policy targeting servicemembers living with HIV' said it's a 'pretty scary and difficult time for advancing, and even maintaining the rights of LGBT people'. 'We've seen this administration, really through regulation, undermine our rights in so many ways,' he said.   The 'Retention Determinations for Non-deployable Service Members' policy came into effect October 1, 2018.   A decision is made on a case-by-case basis. However airmen must demonstrate four things under the DoD Instruction 1332.45:   Non-deployable members must be reported every month and if it's determined for 12 months in a row that they have been non-deployable, they will be considered for separation. Last spring the Trump-Pence administration limited the services that transgender military members could do. The policy of excluding trans people from the US military came into effect in April after lengthy federal court battles and injunctions. Under Barack Obama, the then-Defense Secretary Ashton Carter in June 2016 lifted the Pentagon's ban on transgender people serving openly in the armed forces and said the Pentagon will cover medical costs for uniformed personnel who transition. But by June 2017, Trump tweeted that transgender people would not be allowed 'to serve in any capacity in the US Military' due to medical costs and the 'disruption' caused. The current version of the ban prohibits new recruits from transitioning and also allows the military to discharge those currently serving if they do not present as their birth gender. 'We can blame the Trump administration for the change in culture that has created a situation where the Air Force no longer feels like it needs to support its service members with HIV,' Peter Perkowski, Modern Military Association of America's Legal and Policy Director, told ABC News.  'It's not just trans people and it's not just people living with HIV, it's the entire LGBTQ/ HIV community in the military who are under attack. It comes from the top.' Perkowski - whose organization also reps Roe and Voe - added: 'I think there is still discrimination going on for LGBT people it's just not as overt as it was before. There are pockets of bias. And those are mainly from individuals, but not necessarily from the military itself.  'Right now, people with HIV can't enlist in the military. And if they're an enlisted person, they can't commission as an officer regardless of how qualified they are. So you're stuck as an enlisted person and that obviously affects your ability to get awards and recognitions and promote up the ranks. 'We've seen pilots who were are diagnosed with HIV get grounded as well as doctors and medical practitioners, including mental health practitioners, who were removed from their healthcare jobs after being diagnosed. So I think a case like this would affect those people very significantly.'   
