{ By Danyal Hussain For Mailonline   Published:  02:19, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7985553/Pressure-grows-UK-health-officials-British-coronavirus-super-spreader.html }
Public health officials are under increasing pressure to name a British 'super spreader' of the coronavirus who is thought to have infected at least seven other people in England, France and Spain.   The middle-aged man contracted the virus during a conference at the Grand Hyatt hotel in Singapore organised by Servomex, a British gas analytics company, more than two weeks ago.  He then travelled to a ski chalet in Les Contamines-Montjoie, near Megeve, from January 24 to 28. He returned to Britain on an Easyjet flight on January 28 but fell ill after arriving in Britain, and has been receiving treatment at St Thomas' Hospital in London since last Thursday. Five Britons who shared the ski chalet with him were diagnosed over the weekend, and hundreds of residents of the picturesque town are now undergoing tests.  The four adults and a nine-year-old child, who are not in a serious condition, were staying in the Alpine resort area of Contamines-Montjoie near Mont Blanc.  Last night, it also emerged that health authorities have contacted 183 passengers and six crew on an Easyjet flight taken by the unnamed man, warning that they could be infected. An Easyjet spokesman said it had contacted all of the passengers and crew on the infected carrier's flight from Geneva to London Gatwick on January 28. Five employees at The Grenadier pub in Hove have been instructed to self-isolate after the man visited for two hours on February 1.  A school pupil in the area was also told to self-isolate during the investigation into the man's movements. The meeting in Singapore was attended by 94 other business people, with participants from Malaysia, South Korea and Britain also diagnosed with coronavirus. Meanwhile, a British man in Majorca has also tested positive for coronavirus, while his wife and two daughters tested negative. According to the government in the Balearic Islands, the family said they had been in contact with a person who tested positive for coronavirus in France. Confirming the fourth UK case on Sunday, chief medical officer for England Professor Chris Whitty said the patient, who is being treated at the Royal Free Hospital in London, is 'a known contact of a previously confirmed UK case, and the virus was passed on in France'. Professor Paul Hunter, professor in medicine, University of East Anglia, said on Sunday: 'From today's reports, this new case would appear to be linked to the cluster of cases in the French ski resort which is also linked to the case in Brighton. 'As such this case is part of the same cluster which is being reported as linked to a British national returning from Singapore. 'Whilst we currently do not know many details about how this new case was linked to others in the cluster, his/her identification does not at this stage indicate wider spread within the UK community. 'If the new individual had been already identified through contact tracing and the person was self-isolating then this should not pose any additional risk. 'Further cases within an already identified cluster are not surprising and do not pose an additional risk to public health providing such contacts are complying with instructions from Public Health England.' As of 2pm on Sunday, the Department of Health said a total of 795 tests were concluded in the UK, with four testing positive and 791 confirmed negative. Meanwhile, another plane carrying people evacuated from the coronavirus-hit city of Wuhan landed at RAF Brize Norton on Sunday morning. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said the repatriation flight had brought back 105 British nationals and family members, as well as 95 European nationals and family members. The passengers were taken to the Kents Hill Park hotel and conference centre in Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire, where they will be quarantined for 14 days. Elsewhere, British honeymooner Alan Steele, who was transferred from the cruise liner Diamond Princess to hospital in Japan with coronavirus was said to be feeling well and in good spirits over the weekend. Two other patients who had recently travelled from China are being treated at the Royal Victoria Infirmary infectious diseases centre in Newcastle. One is a student at the University of York, while the other is a family member. The death toll in China from the coronavirus, more than 810, surpasses Sars fatalities in the 2002-2003 outbreak. 
