medicine
{ By Arthur Martin In Les Contamines-montjoie, France For The Daily Mail and Martin Robinson, Chief Reporter For Mailonline   Published:  19:17, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7984385/Hundreds-people-tested-coronavirus-French-Alps.html }
A British 'super spreader' is feared to have infected at least 11 others with coronavirus, prompting the emergency testing of hundreds of people on his flights, Alpine ski break and even staff in his local pub. The businessman is at the centre of a web of cases stretching across the UK, France and Spain after he apparently contracted the virus during a four-day trip to Singapore for a sales conference for gas analysis company Servomex. The man in his fifties then jetted from south-east Asia to the Alps to ski in Les Contamines-Montjoie in late January where five more Britons including a nine-year-old boy became infected despite the 'super spreader' not having any cold or flu-like symptoms. Britain's health authorities have also contacted 183 passengers and six crew on an Easyjet flight then taken by the unnamed man from Geneva to London, warning that they could be infected. Five staff at The Grenadier in Hove, his local pub, have been instructed to self-isolate for a fortnight after he went there for a pint on Saturday February 1.  And a student at Portslade Aldridge Community Academy in Brighton has also been told to stay at home for two weeks amid fears he came into contact with the so-called 'super spreader'.  Officials have desperately tried to stop further spread with a cross-border hunt for all the hundreds of people the Hove man may have had contact with. Cases in the UK and where they are being cared for: Newcastle: Two Chinese nationals who came to the UK with coronavirus and fell ill while on the tourist trail in York London: British super-spreader who picked up virus in Singapore, flew to ski break in France and then back to the UK where he went to the pub in Hove before feeling ill last week. One adult who was in the same chalet with the super-spreader, feared to be Dr Catriona Saynor who flew to Britain for medical exams. Four people in Brighton - all in the same chalet, confirmed to have coronavirus this morning.  Total: Eight  British expats and holidaymakers outside the UK  Majorca: A British father-of-two who stayed in the ski resort tested positive after returning to his home in Majorca. His wife and children are not ill. France: Five people who were in the chalet with the super-spreader. These include the chalet's owner, environmental consultant Bob Saynor, 48, and his nine-year-old son. They are all in a French hospital.  Japan: A British man onboard a cruise ship docked at a port in Japan tested positive for coronavirus, Princess Cruises said. Alan Steele, from Wolverhampton, posted on Facebook that he had been diagnosed with the virus. Believed to be on his honeymoon, Steele said he was not showing any symptoms but was being taken to hospital. Total: Seven  Today 13 Britons have been confirmed to have the killer virus - five in France, one in Japan, one in Spain and six in the UK.  Two others in the UK are ill, but they are believed to be Chinese nationals holidaying in Yorkshire. More than 900 people have died and 37,000 have become infected since the outbreak began in the Chinese city of Wuhan, which has been placed in lockdown to curb the spread - an evacuation flight landed at RAF Brize Norton yesterday.  Public Health England is under pressure to reveal where the so-called 'super spreader' had been and the full extent of the numbers under observation. The task has been made more difficult because the patient, from Hove in East Sussex, interrupted his return from Singapore to Britain by taking a four-day break in the French Alps. The middle-aged man contracted the virus during a conference at the Grand Hyatt hotel in Singapore organised by Servomex, a British gas analytics company, more than two weeks ago. He then travelled to a ski chalet in Les Contamines-Montjoie, near Megeve, from January 24 to 28. He returned to Britain on an Easyjet flight on January 28 but fell ill after arriving in Britain.  Chief medical officer for England Professor Chris Whitty said the patient, who is being treated at the Royal Free Hospital in London, is 'a known contact of a previously confirmed UK case, and the virus was passed on in France'.  Five staff at the Grenadier pub in Hove have been instructed to self-isolate after he visited for two hours on February 1. A school pupil in the area was also told to self-isolate during the investigation into the man's movements.  Five Britons who shared the ski chalet with him were diagnosed over the weekend, and hundreds of residents of the picturesque town are now undergoing tests. Coronavirus victims will now be forcibly quarantined after a man staying at an isolation facility following his evacuation from Wuhan two weeks ago threatened to walk out. The patient staying at Arrowe Park hospital on The Wirral told medics he was going to leave before completing 14 days of quarantine after his return from the Chinese city, MailOnline understands. Government sources said those who returned to the UK on the evacuation flights on January 31 were given a 'very clear choice' and had to sign contracts saying they would remain in isolation for a fortnight. It came as the Department of Health today declared the outbreak a 'serious and imminent' threat to the British public as it announced new powers to fight the spread. Anyone infected with the virus will now be kept in quarantine for their own safety and will be forced into isolation if they pose a threat to public health.   A source told MailOnline: 'We found we didn't have the necessary enforcement powers to make sure they didn't leave. The source said the phrase 'serious and imminent threat' in the regulation was needed to trigger the powers, and at the moment the risk to the public is still regarded as 'moderate'. We're saying we are having to take action to prevent it becoming a serious and imminent threat.' Professor Paul Hunter, professor in medicine, University of East Anglia, said last night: 'This new case would appear to be linked to the cluster of cases in the French ski resort which is also linked to the case in Brighton. 'As such this case is part of the same cluster which is being reported as linked to a British national returning from Singapore. 'Whilst we currently do not know many details about how this new case was linked to others in the cluster, his/her identification does not at this stage indicate wider spread within the UK community. 'If the new individual had been already identified through contact tracing and the person was self-isolating then this should not pose any additional risk. 'Further cases within an already identified cluster are not surprising and do not pose an additional risk to public health providing such contacts are complying with instructions from Public Health England.' Authorities confirmed yesterday that a fourth case of coronavirus in the UK was also linked to the Hove businessman. In addition, a British father-of-two who stayed in the ski resort tested positive after returning to his home in Majorca. The five Britons who caught the virus in the Alps include the chalet's owner, environmental consultant Bob Saynor, 48, and his nine-year-old son. They are in hospital with three other Britons who were staying at the six-bedroom chalet. Mr Saynor's two other children and four Britons from another family are being kept in isolation at French hospitals as a precaution. His wife Catriona, a doctor, is reportedly in the UK.  The family is understood to have been living in the village for just three months after moving from Hove themselves, despite having bought the property several years ago.  Ministers are reviving plans originally drawn up to cope with a No Deal Brexit to help tackle the impact of the coronavirus on businesses. They are concerned that Chinese cities and factories could be locked down for months, creating a shortage of goods that UK firms rely on. Whitehall officials have been ordered to dust off crisis plans made to ensure the flow of vital supplies if Britain left the EU without a deal. It comes after concerns about companies running out of lifesaving equipment or parts for supply chains. The virus has forced businesses with Chinese operations to close factories. Those affected include iPhone maker Apple, car manufacturers Ford, Volkswagen and Nissan, airlines such as British Airways and drug giant Glaxosmithkline. Experts fear the virus's impact could cost the world economy £217billion in the first quarter of 2020. Chancellor Sajid Javid has reportedly joined meetings of the Cobra emergency committee to discuss the crisis. Mrs Saynor had left France by the time the investigation began and is under observation in a UK hospital. It is not clear if she was the fourth case diagnosed in Britain. French officials have closed the 95-pupil primary school attended by the Saynors' nine-year-old son, while a 200-pupil school in nearby Saint-Gervais he attended for one day last week will also be shut. Etienne Jacquet, the mayor of Les Contamines-Montjoie, said the chalet had now been disinfected. At this time of year, the village of 1,200 people, which is part of the Mount Blanc ski area, hosts thousands of skiers. But local shop staff said some tourists had cancelled bookings, even though French half-term week starts today, followed by British half-term next week. Last night, Easyjet spokesman said it had contacted all of the passengers and crew on the infected carrier's flight from Geneva to London Gatwick on January 28. Five employees at The Grenadier pub in Hove have been instructed to self-isolate after he visited for two hours on February 1. A school pupil in the area was also told to self-isolate during the investigation into the man's movements. The meeting in Singapore was attended by 94 other business people, with participants from Malaysia, South Korea and Britain also diagnosed with coronavirus. Dr Nathalie MacDermott, from King's College London, told yesterday of her 'concerns of the potential for this epidemic to develop into a pandemic, particularly if international lines of communication about cases of infection and mechanism of transmission are not maintained'. Professor Richard Tedder, a visiting professor at Imperial College London, said that the most recent cases gave rise to the 'potential risk of a pandemic'. China yesterday raised the death toll from its coronavirus outbreak to 811, passing the number killed globally by the SARS epidemic. China's ambassador to Britain, Liu Xiaoming, described the virus – which has spread to at least 27 countries and territories, infecting more than 330 people – as 'the enemy of mankind'. Health experts believe the outbreak could have spread from bats to humans through the illegal traffic of pangolins – or scaly anteaters – which are prized in China for food and medicine.   105 fly in as hotel turns into Camp Corona II  More than 100 Britons were placed in quarantine at a three-star hotel in Milton Keynes yesterday after another airlift from Wuhan. Wearing masks and escorted by health staff in hazmat suits, the group flew from China to RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire. Some passengers held children in their arms as they were helped from the plane. The 105 Britons were taken to Kents Hill Park hotel and conference centre in a convoy of coaches with a police escort. It follows earlier airlifts to Britain from the city at the heart of the coronavirus outbreak, which brought 94 people to quarantine on the Wirral. The Milton Keynes group will stay at the hotel for two weeks until they receive the medical all-clear. They have been given books and magazines and will have access to the internet on phones and tablets. Children will receive toys and games. Upon arrival at the hotel, the group were handed bags of toiletries and supplied with underwear from Primark and other clothing. Baby equipment, such as highchairs, is also being brought in. The hotel, which has more than 70 meeting rooms and 300 bedrooms, was surrounded by temporary fencing yesterday. Ambulances waited outside and police guarded entrances. The chartered flight arrived at Brize Norton shortly before 7.30am. It was carrying the 105 Britons along with 95 Europeans and 13 medical staff and officials. It is understood all the passengers went to the quarantine hotel. It emerged that two Britons were prevented from boarding in Wuhan after displaying high temperatures during screening. The hotel is close to three schools, but nearby residents said they were not concerned about the quarantine being so close. Stephen Szyelimski, 73, said: 'They've got to go somewhere. You could say that it may have been better if they had been put in a more of an isolated place but I've got no bones of contention. It's got to be done properly.' Tracy Philemon, 59, said: 'Wherever they do it, people aren't going to be happy. It's unfortunate for us in some respects, but as long as they do things the way they're supposed to...I don't see a problem with it.' Meanwhile, a Briton whose honeymoon on a luxury cruise ship was cut short after he contracted the coronavirus yesterday told how he 'can't wait to get out' of hospital. Lorry driver Alan Steele, 58, was removed last week from the Diamond Princess which is currently in quarantine off the coast of Japan with 3,700 passengers on board. His placement in an isolation unit onshore in Japan was coupled with the heartache of being separated from his new wife Wendy, 51. Mr Steele said he had shown no signs of serious illness and was whiling away his time watching British television. He insisted: 'My vitals all still show I am healthy.' Mr Steele, from Wolverhampton, vented his frustration at being unable to take a shower or use a coffee machine due to safety risks. He said: 'I cannot wait to get out of here.' 
