medicine
{ By Kevin Kayhart For Dailymail.com   Published:  05:02, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7983053/Ozzy-Osbourne-goes-shopping-wife-Sharon-Osbourne-revealing-Parkinsons-diagnosis.html }
He revealed his Parkinson's diagnosis a few weeks ago. And on Saturday, legendary rocker Ozzy Osbourne enjoyed some family time with his wife and business confidant Sharon Osbourne. The couple were spotted leaving the trendy designer clothing outlet, American Rag, in Los Angeles. The Black Sabbath frontman, 71, slowly walked out of the store with the help of a cane, wearing dark dress pants with black shirt and black duster blazer. He also donned a pair of black leather slip-on shoes and his trademark round sunglasses. The so-called Prince Of Darkness wore his dark reddish locks long, just past his shoulders, with a part near the middle. Like most days, wife Sharon, 67, was by her man's side every step of the way. The Talk co-host kept it casual in the fashion department in black sweatpants and a matching hoodie. She also wore white sneakers and had her dyed burgundy tresses in a bob cut with a center part. Slowly but surely, the longtime couple, who have been married for 37 years, made their way back to their car after wrapping up their shopping excursion. Along the way, fans and passer-byes took notice and began to gather around the rock n' roll legend. The outing comes just weeks after Osbourne revealed he was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease during an emotional interview on Good Morning America. The Crazy Train singer-songwriter has said the recording process for the new album has helped him get the strength to move forward, both physically and spiritually. 'If you saw me at the beginning of last year, you'd think I was fu**ed. But I honestly think making this album is the best medicine I could have had,' he revealed in an interview with Kerrang!  To date, three singles from the new album have been released, including Under The Graveyard, Straight To Hell and the title track Ordinary Man, that features Elton John. Ozzy's first album in ten years, Ordinary Man, is set to drop February 21.   
