medicine
{ By Monica Greep For Mailonline   Published:  14:16, 7 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7978497/Inside-2020-Oscars-100-000-goodie-bag.html }
Stars attending this Sunday's Oscars in Los Angeles will be treated to a gift bag worth over $100,000, containing everything from beauty treatments to luxury holidays.   Today on This Morning, Hollywood reporter Sam Rubin, took a look inside the 'Everyone Wins' nominee gift bag, created provided to the Academy by Los Angeles-based marketing company Distinctive Assets.  He told how some lucky stars will receive a 12-day trip for two on the world's first ultra-luxury expedition yacht — the Scenic Eclipse as well as Biodegradable Bust support tape by Yen the Label.  Among the 75 gifts in the swag bag are a hammock from Wise Owl Outfitters, a break at one of California's leading spas Golden Door;  a 24 carat gold Royal Chakra Bath Bomb from Hotsy Totsy Haus and up to $25,000 of treatments and cosmetic procedures from Upper East Side cosmetologist, Dr. Konstantin Vasyukevich. Here, we reveal some of the most expensive - and quirky - gifts the A-list will reportedly be treated to this weekend.  12-day trip for two on the world's first ultra-luxury expedition yacht — the Scenic Eclipse. Stars will be able to take a 12-day trip to the Antarctic on ultra-luxury yacht, the Scenic Eclipse, which carries only 228 passengers.  The boat is the first foray into ocean cruising for Australian company Scenic, long known for luxury tours and river ships, and was christened by Dame Helen Mirren. The cutting-edge boat features its own helicopters, 114 cabins, and a $10,000-per-night, two-bedroom Owner’s Penthouse Suite which spreads across  2,659 square feet.  A five-night stay at a new lifestyle hotel in Waikiki, Hawaii.  If traveling to the Antarctic wasn't enough, celebrities can head off on a trip to a warmer location with their five-day holiday to Waikiki, Hawaii. Stars will stay in the Waikiki Beachcomber, a new wellness hotel, which provides poolside yoga, rotating art exhibits and is steps from iconic Waikiki Beach.  Guests will be able to  take part in spa rituals, visit the hotel's farm-to-table brewpub or enjoy a night of cultural celebration at its Magic of Polynesia show  Biodegradable Bust support tape . Stars need never worry about wardrobe malfunctions again, because their bags also includes Bust support tape by Yen the Label. The tape is 95 per cent sustainable and organic eco-friendly cotton, with no genetically modified seeds and is 5 per cent Spandex to give celebs the stretch and strong support they need. According to the product's website, it is a sensitive body adhesive that's nylon and latex free, hypoallergenic and can even be reused  A stay for eight guests in a Spanish lighthouse.  If the other luxury holidays didn't win over the stars, they also have a chance to have a stay at The Faro Cumplida.  The active lighthouse hosts up to eight guests in three private suites and is located on the Canary Island of La Palma, and it's the first getaway of its kind in Spain.  $25,000 of treatments and cosmetic procedures from New York cosmetologist Dr. Konstantin Vasyukevich  After the stress of the big day, stars are bound to need some pampering, and can now enlist $25,000 worth of help of New York-based cosmetologist Dr. Konstantin Vasyukevich. Dr. Konstantin is a double board-certified facial plastic surgeon specializing in artful treatment of the aging face, eyelids, and neck. The cosmetologist is one of the  busiest facial plastic surgeons in Manhattan provide both surgical and nonsurgical facial rejuvenation treatments.   Soma's Sensuous Silk Kimono Robe  Nominees will also receive a Soma's Sensuous Silk Kimono Robe which retails for $218 in the UK and is made from 100 per cent silk.  The design was originally designed for the brand's first collection in 2004, but was later  recreated it for its limited-edition Heritage collection, 15-years later.  They will also receive a Somainnofit smart-fit bra, which is able to give specific measurements to a smartphone via Bluetooth.   A set of Coda Signature's chocolate edibles for eight.  Stars will also get to try a tasting set of  Coda Signature's chocolate edibles for eight, infused with  C02-extracted cannabis oil.  The brand's signature chocolate bars are made from ethically-sourced cacao and includes flavours such as Fire and Orange, maple and pecan and coffee and doughnuts.  The tasting kit will end with a specially-made dessert inspired by the individual nominee's favourite flavours.   24 karat gold Royal Chakra Bath Bomb from Hotsy Totsy Haus.  The celebrities will also receive a Royal Crown Chakra Bath Bomb 24-karat Gold Full Moon Charged Amethyst with Organic Hyaluronic Acid, from Hotsy Totsy Haus. The bomb includes ingredients such as Brazillian purple clay, buckhorn and oat kernel extract coconut milk, aloe, and organic hyaluronic acid. The website claims: 'As you lower the bath bomb into a warm, drawn bath, feel your anxiety, fears, and spiritual obstacles dissipate in a wake of lavender oil-infused, moon-charged water'.  A 12-day trip for two on the world's first ultra-luxury expedition yacht — the Scenic Eclipse. Dinner for two at Flora's Field Kitchen. A private phone call with life coach Jessica McGregor Johnson. A guided tasting of Coda Signature's chocolate edibles for eight. A necklace from TAPS for Hope. DIFF sunglasses and Veestro plant-based meals from PETA. A 24 karat gold Royal Chakra Bath Bomb from Hotsy Totsy Haus. Clothes from luxury clothing brand Happiest Tee. A limited edition collector box from Trust Me Vodka. Up to $25,000 of treatments and cosmetic procedures from Upper East Side cosmetologist Dr. Konstantin Vasyukevich. An 18 karat gold necklace from Blush & Whimsy. A getaway for eight guests in an active Spanish lighthouse. A one-year membership to Drawing Down the Moon, Britain's premier matchmaking agency. A custom stained glass portrait by artist John Thoman. A bottle of A. Junod, a white absinthe handcrafted in France. Event photography by Capture Roaming Halo. Still Standing Unisex Foot Spray for red carpet appearances. 'The Beauty Book for Brain Cancer (Edition 2)' by Darren Tieste. Ten personal training sessions with premier trainer Alexis Seletzky. Two tickets to a Daybreaker morning yoga and dance class. A $2,020 Respect Your Universe shopping spree and clothing donation. CBD cocktail syrup from CBD Barkeep. Ten personal training sessions with premier trainer Alexis Seletzky. A high-end vape pen from Hollowtips. DNA-based personalized medicine courtesy of Pharmazam. A five-night stay at a new lifestyle hotel in Waikiki, Hawaii. A trip to the destination spa Golden Door. Clothing from the women's luxury loungewear company Soma. A 'brain sensing headband' from Muse. A $115 sterling silver bracelet from Officina Bernardi. A 5-day dietary program from Prolon. A Sky Lite from BlissLights that projects a starry night onto walls. 'Carson's Garage' by KD Storm. Handmade luxury eyelashes from Céline Victor. Charabanc's luxury car fragrance. Dwight Cleveland's 'Cinema on Paper: The Graphic Genius of Movie Posters.' Personalized cosmetic enhancement services from Clinic Pour Vous. A 'spa kit for your mouth' from Closys Oral Care. Atara Twersky's children's book 'Curlee Girlee,' which empowers girls to love their curly hair. A Sleep Essentials gift set from Essence One. Two card games from Exploding Kittens. Premium nut bars from Fast Bar. A two-night luxury stay at Auberge Resorts in Los Cabos, Mexico. A six-month supply of baby goodies from Baja Baby. A urine collection system from Forte Medical that identifies potential health concerns. Hydrogen-infused water from HFactor. A skincare gift box from Instytutum. A hand-dyed ombre alpaca throw from Johanna Howard Home. A one-year membership to LiveItUp, an app that sends new text and video challenges designed to help users live richer lives. The Giuliana Earring, a woven cut crystal earring from Millianna. An assortment of macarons from Mad Mac Macarons. Custom soy candles from Mood — The Candle Revival Company. A hydration product for jet lag and tracel fatigue from My Flight Pack. Meal kits from Nutrition for Longevity. A year of optimal health full-body performance evaluation package from Dr. Salas-Whalen at New York Endocrinology. Ultra Smooth deodorant from Old Spice. A VIP day of wellness at Origin Stretch & Spa in West Hollywood. A one-year supply of Oxygenating Foundation from Oxygenetix. A two-pack of Pepperidge Farm's Dark Chocolate Milano cookies. Color-coordinated pillows from Pillow Pops. A bottle of Próspero Tequila by Rita Ora. Purusha Botanicals' Skincare Ritual pack. A custom security door from Remo Security Doors. A custom work of art from Reian Williams Fine Art. Rita Hazan's Shine Balm. Seurcell Serum with KFS Cellular Protein Complex, which blends over 1,500 key skin nutrients. CBD-infused essential oils from SHEbd Broad Spectrum. A candle from Soul Shropshire. A complimentary TempSure Envi radiofrequency skincare treatment. Cleansers from The Right to Shower, which donates a percentage of profits to mobile shower initiatives for homeless populations. A weekend Malibu wellness retreat from 3D Wellness Retreat. Tru Niagen vitamins, which increase NAD — a molecule that boosts cellular energy and repair. Violent vitamins, which alleviate breast pain. A hammock from Wise Owl Outfitters. Bust support tape by Yen the Label. 
