{ By Kieran Gill for the Daily Mail    Published:  22:36, 6 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7975557/FA-restrict-18s-heading-training-groundbreaking-revamp.html }
The FA are set to restrict the amount of heading that under 18s can practise in training, in groundbreaking changes that could protect youngsters from developing dementia later in life. After significant campaigning by Sportsmail columnist Chris Sutton, English football’s governing body are expected to take precautionary action while research into the impact of heading continues. It is in response to a report in October which found former professional footballers are three-and-a-half times more likely to die from dementia and other neurological diseases. The FA are not expected to ban heading by youngsters entirely — not until they have evidence of a direct link — but could announce different guidelines for different age groups. Details have yet to be finalised but reports of rule changes follows an announcement of a review into heading from Dr Charlotte Cowie, the FA’s head of medicine, in December. The Scottish Football Association are also considering introducing restrictions for children. Sutton, whose father Mike is a former footballer now suffering from dementia, described the move as ‘positive and sensible’. Dawn Astle, the daughter of the ex-England centre forward Jeff Astle whose dementia-related death in 2002 was attributed to heading heavy footballs, is another who has campaigned tirelessly. Heading by Under 10s has been banned in the United States since 2015. At the time that was overseen by George Chiampas, US Soccer’s chief medical officer. Speaking to Sportsmail, Chiampas said the FA should not fear a backlash to such rule changes. ‘Despite a few concerns here and there, we had an overwhelming positive response from our members, players, parents, coaches and referees, about the steps we’ve taken,’ he said. ‘The more information people have, the better their understanding of the situation. Everyone can understand the main goal of keeping players healthy..’ Peter McCabe, chief executive of brain injury association Headway, also said: ‘This is a positive, common sense approach to take. ‘After all, it will not prohibit young people participating in the game or impact their enjoyment. ‘Further research is urgently needed in order to remove any uncertainty about how often a player can head a ball and at what age — if any — it is safe to do so before damage is caused. ‘What is clear, however, is that we cannot afford to wait for further evidence to be published before taking action on this.’ 
