{ By Snejana Farberov For Dailymail.com and Afp   Published:  20:58, 6 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7975545/Former-Olympic-doctor-claims-fired-reporting-sexual-abuse.html }
A former US Olympic and Paralympic Committee sports medicine executive has filed a federal whistleblower lawsuit claiming he was fired by the USOPC in retaliation for questioning how top officials handled sex abuse and mental health issues among athletes. According to multiple reports, Dr William Moreau, dismissed last May as USOPC's vice president of sports medicine after 10 years at the organization, says in the lawsuit brought on Wednesday in Denver District Court that his recommendations for better athlete health and safety protection fell on deaf ears.  'Frankly, what I'm really worried about is, what if another kid gets raped and I didn't say something? What if another athlete kills himself and I didn't say something? Somebody has got to get the USOPC's attention to start listening and not breaking the law,' Moreau told ESPN. The lawsuit comes five months before the Tokyo Olympics as the US Justice Department and lawmakers investigate decades of USOPC handling of abuse allegations, sparked after dozens of women accused former US gymnastics team doctor Larry Nassar of molesting them. 'I feel like in a way, I need to give a voice to the athletes who were raped, the athletes that are hurting, the athletes that aren't getting the care they need,' Moreau told The  Denver Post. 'I hope that by shining a bright light on this, maybe people will start paying attention.'   Among Moreau's claims is that USOPC executives failed to recognize a crime had occurred involving the statutory rape of a 15-year-old Paralympic athlete by a 20-year-old athlete at the 2018 Drake Relays. Instead of contacting the authorities within 24 hours, as required by law, officials allegedly waited four days to report the incident.   Moreau also accuses USOPC executives of failing to take immediate action in February 2018 in response to his warnings to provide psychiatric care to Olympic cyclist Kelly Catlin. Moreau told ESPN he spoke to Rick Adams, the USOPC's chief of high performance, on March 7, telling him Catlin required urgent mental health treatment. He claimed Adams just looked at him and said nothing in response. The next day, Catlin, a silver medalist in the 2016 Summer Olympics, took her own life. She was 23 years old and her death fell on Moreau's birthday, leaving him feeling 'despondent.'  'I'm not saying we could have saved her,' Moreau told ESPN. 'But we sure as hell could have tried.' He also says the USOPC failed to dismiss a male strength and conditioning coach who was seen naked by a female trainer in a sauna open to men's and women's athletes while a group of teen gymnasts were training at the organization's Colorado headquarters. 'We regret that Dr. Moreau and his attorney have misrepresented the causes of his separation from the USOPC,' Luella Chavez D'Angelo, USOPC's spokesperson, said in the statement. 'We will honor their decision to see this matter through in the courts and we won't comment on the specifics as that goes forward.' Moreau claims he raised the issue of treating young gymnasts without chaperones with Nassar, who has what amounts to a life sentence in prison after pleading guilty to state and federal charges. Moreau, who currently works as chief medical officer at University of Western States in Portland, Oregon, says he was ostensibly fired for being a chiropractic doctor rather than one with a medical degree, then replaced by another chiropractor, according to USA Today.  Moreau's lawsuit seeks unspecified damages alleging wrongful discharge in violation of public policy and extreme and outrageous conduct.  
