{ By Matthew Wright For Dailymail.com    Published:  20:34, 6 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7975489/Indiana-University-defends-Sex-Fest-featuring-BDSM-safety-demonstration.html }
Indiana University is standing behind an event held at their campus that promoted BDSM safety and overall sex health education after a conservative student shared a video of the event he deemed was 'promoting sexual violence'.  Matt Ahmann, a congress member for the student government at the university, took to his Twitter on Thursday to slam the school for the event - part of their fifth annual SexFest.  'Here's the video of @IUBloomington sponsored and paid for event promoting sexual violence,' he said, sharing a clip of the Wednesday night event. 'This event was held in an open room of a dorm hall.'  Video shows two BDSM practitioners explaining and demonstrating a proper technique for flogging on a woman at the school.    Indiana University has hosted the event for five years now, according to Facebook page for the festival. The event is organized by student-run Sexual Health Advocacy Group, the Community Capacity for Prevention and Education, the Resident Hall Association and the IU Health Center, college publication Indiana Daily Student reports. The school is hosting several events and demonstrations throughout the week. Their main BDSM Safety Panel is scheduled for Thursday at the Willkie Auditorium at 6pm.  'Hear personal stories from individuals who practice BDSM,' an event flyer reads.  Previous day activities included a Tuesday 'Kick-off to Kink' event that focused on a 'discussion about desire and communication' and included an appearance from a licensed Marriage and Family Therapist.  Wednesday featured a 'Kink Workshop' where people were able to 'browse educational booths demonstrating the use of different sex toys.' The event - also held in the Willkie Auditorium - included the flogging demonstration that Ahmann witnessed.  Both the Kink Workshop and the BDSM Safety Panel had free HIV testing available for people in need.  Ahmann explained to Campus Reform that he found the event to be 'disappointing.'  'I find it very disappointing the Indiana University is sponsoring such a weird event,' he said.  But according to Indiana University spokesperson Chuck Carney, there were far more students keen to learn about BDSM than that held Ahmann's position.  'One of the topics most requested by students was how to practice BDSM safety,' Carney said.  'Our public health researchers have found some evidence to suggest that people are engaging in a broader range of sexual activities and as a result, it is the IU Health Center's mission to make sure they practice it safely, following the BDSM community's principal tenets of 'safe, sane, and consensual.'  Students who attended the BDSM event on Thursday are required to sing a contract where they agree not to use recording devices in an effort to keep panelists' identities confidential. All SexFest attendees get shirts that read 'I love Sex.' As the New York Times reported in 2018, those who practice bondage, dominance, sadism and masochism (B.D.S.M.) 'have rules for protecting boundaries, safety and consent.'  'B.D.S.M. practitioners use the catchphrase “safe, sane and consensual” to summarize best practices for sexual encounters that mix with violence,' the New York Times stated. 'Extensive conversations, negotiated checklists and safe words are tools for navigating consent.'   The problem arises once BDSM becomes muddied with abuse. This was the case for Missouri Governor Eric Greitens. The Republican politician resigned in 2018 after he was accused of being overtly aggressive towards a woman who did not give him consent.  According to a 2013 study from the International Society for Sexual Medicine showed that subjects 'felt more secure in their relationships and had an increased sense of well-being. They were more conscientious toward others, more extroverted, and more open to trying new experiences. They also had decreased anxiety and were less sensitive to others' perceptions.'   
