{ By Joe Pinkstone For Mailonline    Published:  18:57, 6 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7975305/Britain-conducts-experiments-animals-Europe-1-8-MILLION-tests-year.html }
The United Kingdom conducted more experiments on animals than any other country in Europe in 2017, a damning report has revealed.  A comprehensive landmark review from the European Commission provided detailed animal testing statistics for each member state for the first time under new legislation. Animal rights groups are calling for the UK government to slash this number now Britain has left the EU and stop the majority of animal testing.  Scroll down for video  The report broke down animal testing for the 28 members between 2015 and 2017. It revealed a total of 1,885,933 procedures were performed on animals in the UK in 2017.  This figure accounts for 19 per cent of all of the EU which saw 9,581,741 total experiments in 2017.  The total number was 9,782,570 in 2015 and 10,028,498 in 2016.   The most commonly used animals were mice and rats and on average, two per cent of all animals used have been reused, but this rises for large mammals.  In the EU, there are strict regulations in place for how many times an animal can be used in animal testing.     For example, the report reveals 71 per cent of sheep are reused as well as 44 per cent of cats and 36 per cent of dogs.  It is unclear for how long, or how many times, these animals are tested upon.   MailOnline understands that if an animal is not killed as a direct result of its experiment it can be reused, but as is more often the case, these animals which are purpose bred for research are euthanised.  Kerry Postlewhite, Director of Public Affairs for Cruelty Free International, says: 'This is one league table that the UK should not be proud to top. 'Now that the UK has left the EU, the government needs to put its money where its mouth is in terms of improving animal protection standards.  'We want to see plans for getting this horrific number of animal experiments down and down fast.'  Jan Creamer, President of Animal Defenders International, adds: 'As the highest user of animals in research in Europe, the UK needs to walk the talk and set out a plan to review and replace animal tests with advanced research methods at the earliest opportunity. 'Failure to act could delay scientific progress, risking harm to animals and people, and leaving the UK trailing behind.'  Germany is the second highest user, while France is third. 'Few experiments on animals – no matter how painful or irrelevant – are prohibited by law,' says PETA Science Policy Adviser Dr Julia Baines.  'Yet their systemic failure to benefit humans in the areas of neurodegenerative disease, mental health disorders, cardiovascular disease, cancer, obesity, and more is well documented.  'PETA is calling on the EU to reconsider our reliance on these archaic procedures and champion the funding and development of humane and human-relevant technology.  'This is where the future of science and human health clearly lies.'  Animal Defenders International agrees, and believes the UK government and regulators must drive research toward modern methods. For example, they say the majority of animal testing can be replaced with the use of databases, sophisticated analytical techniques, organ-on-a chip models, microdosing, computer simulations and modelling, and human tissue and 3D cell cultures.  But Kirk Leech, executive director of the European Animal Research Association (EARA) said in a statement: 'Using animals as a research model is often the only way to develop new treatments and an understanding of the human body, and we congratulate the European Commission for making these numbers public.' Chris Magee, from Understanding Animal Research, adds: 'Animal research involves a lot more than just the testing of drugs. For cancer research alone, studies on mice gave us both chemotherapy and immunotherapy, and these EU figures include animals used to manufacture cancer drugs. There is no other way to get them. 'Animals have also been critical in developing most medicines like insulin and asthma treatments, and are being used at the moment to create a vaccine against the new Coronavirus.  'Scientists also use all non-animal methods at the same time, but animals often provide that missing piece of the puzzle to get a medicine off the lab bench and into clinical practice.' But animal protection and advocacy group Cruelty Free International says that of all the experiments conducted, more than two thirds (68 per cent) are not required by law and could be prevented.    The number of total experiments on 'naive' animals - defined as animals used for the first time for research and testing - has fluctuated slightly since 2015.  The report also reveals how severe the animal reaction was to the experiments they were subjected to.  Six per cent (621,054)  of all experiments in the EU in 2017 resulted in non-recovery of the animal. Over three years, this total reaches almost 1.85million animals.  This is defined as when an experiment occurs under general anaesthetic and the information is collected before the anaesthetic is increased and the animal subsequently dies.  Eleven per cent of the 2017 experiments, more than a million (1,023,138), resulted in a 'severe' reaction.  These can be similar to the forced swim test where a mouse is placed in a beaker of water for up to six minutes. It is pulled out if it begins to sink.  Mild suffering could be a blood sample and moderate suffering could be akin to surgery under general anaesthetic.  The report states: 'In general, however, over 50 per cent of all uses in research and testing are of mild severity.'   However, MailOnline understands that even if the animal does not die as a direct response of the experiment, the animal will still be killed in most cases.  This is because the internal organs must be studied to determine the effect of the experiment is needed.        
