{ By Associated Press   Published:  17:22, 6 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-7975105/Officials-70-China-evacuees-quarantined-Nebraska.html }
OMAHA, Neb. (AP) - Hundreds of Americans being evacuated from China over a viral outbreak will be quarantined in Texas and Nebraska, officials said Thursday, stressing that it was unlikely that anyone will arrive there with signs of illness. Officials said about 70 Americans will be flown into Omaha and quarantined at a nearby Nebraska National Guard training base. In Texas, Lackland Air For Base in San Antonio was preparing to quarantine as many as 250 people who could arrive as soon as Friday, said Dr. Jennifer McQuiston, deputy director of the Centers for Disease Control's division of high consequence pathogens and pathology. All passengers will be arriving from Wuhan, China, the center of the new coronavirus outbreak. McQuiston said the plane bound for Texas will stop first at Travis Air Force Base in Fairfield, California - where other evacuees from China are already under quarantine - and that anyone showing symptoms would be taken off the plane and remain there. "It's actually very unlikely that on the flight that lands here, there will be somebody with active signs of illness," she said. University of Nebraska Medical Center Chancellor Jeffrey Gold also said that all the evacuees should be healthy when they arrive at Eppley Airfield, which could happen as soon as Thursday. Evacuees will be quarantined for 14 days and monitored closely for any signs of illness. Anyone who shows signs of illness would be brought to a hospital for treatment and isolation. This photo provided by Nebraska National Guard shows empty lodging facilities at Camp Ashland, Neb., on Feb. 2, 2020. The Department of Defense is providing temporary lodging support for up to 1,000 passengers being evacuated from China to the U.S. in response to the coronavirus outbreak there. (Sgt. Lisa Crawford/Nebraska National Guard via AP) Nebraska National Guard officials have been preparing to house evacuees in three buildings with 85 hotel-style rooms at the camp. Guard officials have said the evacuees won't interact with guardsmen or employees there. The new virus is in the coronavirus family that includes Middle East respiratory syndrome, or MERS, and severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. It causes fever, cough, shortness of breath and, in severe cases, pneumonia. It has sickened more than 20,000 people and killed nearly 500, virtually all in China. ___ Associated Press writer Paul Weber in Austin, Texas, contributed to this report. This photo provided by Nebraska National Guard shows empty lodging facilities at Camp Ashland, Neb., on Feb. 2, 2020. The Department of Defense is providing temporary lodging support for up to 1,000 passengers being evacuated from China to the U.S. in response to the coronavirus outbreak there. (Sgt. Lisa Crawford/Nebraska National Guard via AP) This photo provided by Nebraska National Guard shows empty lodging facilities at Camp Ashland, Neb., on Feb. 2, 2020. The Department of Defense is providing temporary lodging support for up to 1,000 passengers being evacuated from China to the U.S. in response to the coronavirus outbreak there. (Sgt. Lisa Crawford/Nebraska National Guard via AP) This photo provided by Nebraska National Guard shows empty lodging facilities at Camp Ashland, Neb., on Feb. 2, 2020. The Department of Defense is providing temporary lodging support for up to 1,000 passengers being evacuated from China to the U.S. in response to the coronavirus outbreak there. (Sgt. Lisa Crawford/Nebraska National Guard via AP) Eric Kasowski, quarantine Ashland team lead with the CDC, center, answers a question during a news conference at the University of Nebraska Medical Center/Nebraska Medicine, in Omaha, Neb., Thursday, Feb. 6, 2020. Kasowski answered questions ahead of anticipated American evacuees from the coronavirus outbreak in China being flown into Omaha to be quarantined at Camp Ashland, a nearby Nebraska National Guard training base. UNMC Chancellor Dr. Jefferey Gold, left, and Neb. Gov. Pete Ricketts, second left, stand rear. (AP Photo/Nati Harnik) This Feb. 2, 2020, photo provided by the Department of Defense shows empty lodging facilities at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas. The Department of Defense says it is providing temporary lodging support for up to 1,000 passengers being evacuated from China to the U.S. in response to the coronavirus outbreak there. (Todd Holly/U.S. Air Force via AP) This Feb. 2, 2020, photo provided by the Department of Defense shows empty lodging facilities at Joint Base San Antonio-Lackland, Texas. The Department of Defense says it is providing temporary lodging support for up to 1,000 passengers being evacuated from China to the U.S. in response to the coronavirus outbreak there. (Todd Holly/U.S. Air Force via AP) 
