{ By Associated Press   Published:  05:07, 6 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-7972655/AP-News-Brief-12-04-m-EST.html }
Japan finds 41 more cases on ship as virus alarm doctor dies BEIJING (AP) - Japan on Friday reported 41 new cases of a virus on a cruise ship that's been quarantined in Yokohama harbor while the death toll in mainland China rose to 636, including a doctor who got in trouble with authorities in the communist country for sounding an early warning about the disease threat. Two docked cruise ships with thousands of passengers and crew members remained under 14-day quarantines in Hong Kong and Japan. Before Friday's 41 confirmed cases, 20 passengers who were found infected with the virus were escorted off the Diamond Princess at Yokohama near Tokyo. About 3,700 people have been confined aboard the ship. Meanwhile, a newborn discovered infected 36 hours after birth has become the youngest known patient. The number of people infected globally has risen to more than 31,000. Dr. Li Wenliang, 34, had worked at a hospital in the epicenter of the outbreak in the central city of Wuhan. He was reprimanded by local police for "spreading rumors" about the illness in late December, according to news reports. The outbreak has spread to some two dozen countries, triggering travel restrictions and quarantines around the world and a crisis inside the country of 1.4 billion. ___ Experts scramble, but new virus vaccine may not come in time WASHINGTON (AP) - The flu-like virus that exploded from China has researchers worldwide once again scrambling to find a vaccine against a surprise health threat, with no guarantee one will arrive in time. Just days after Chinese scientists shared the genetic map of the culprit coronavirus, researchers at the U.S. National Institutes of Health had engineered a possible key ingredient for a vaccine they hope to begin testing by April. Scientists from Australia to France, along with a list of biotech and vaccine companies, jumped in the race, pursuing different types of inoculations. And Texas researchers froze an experimental vaccine developed too late to fight an earlier coronavirus - SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome - but are pushing U.S. and Chinese authorities to give it a try this time around. Because the new virus is a close cousin of SARS, it just might protect, said Dr. Peter Hotez of Baylor College of Medicine and Texas Children's Hospital. All that work is coming at lightning speed compared to past outbreaks. Yet many experts agree it still may take a year - if every step along the way goes well - for any vaccine to be ready for widespread use. That's if it큦 even needed by then. ___ Trump shows no qualms about using presidency to court voters WASHINGTON (AP) - Dispatching Cabinet secretaries across the country to woo Iowa voters. Using private cash to finance an official made-for-TV moment. Delivering a State of the Union address that doubled as a campaign kickoff speech. Holding an impeachment acquittal victory rally in the White House East Room. President Donald Trump made clear this week that he has no qualms about using the powers of his office to court voters in an election year. As he emerges from the impeachment drama, claiming vindication, Trump appears all the more emboldened to blur the lines between public and private endeavors. That mindset was on full display Thursday as he used the White House as the setting for a scorched-earth victory speech celebrating his acquittal by the Senate following his impeachment by the House. Just days earlier, Trump delivered a speech in front of a joint session of Congress that could have been mistaken for a low-key Trump rally, complete with partisan incantations from Republicans in the chamber of "Four more years!" Similar chants have rung out through various rooms of the White House as Trump has hosted events that took on sharply partisan tones. Several Democratic lawmakers expressed frustration following the State of the Union that Trump went overboard on the politics in what is supposed to be a constitutionally proscribed opportunity to "give to the Congress Information of the State of the Union." "I get it - presidents use their last SOTU to make the case for re-election," Sen. Chris Murphy, D-Conn., wrote on Twitter. "But that crossed a line." ___ DNC chair calls for 'recanvass' of Iowa results after delays WASHINGTON (AP) - The chairman of the Democratic National Committee on Thursday called for a "recanvass" of the results of the Iowa caucuses, saying it was needed to "assure public confidence" after three days of technical issues and delays. "Enough is enough," party leader Tom Perez wrote on Twitter. With 97% of precincts reporting, Pete Buttigieg, a former mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders are nearly tied for the lead, and both candidates have declared themselves victorious. The Associated Press said Thursday that it is unable to declare a winner in the contest. Beyond technical issues and Perez's concerns, the Iowa Democratic Party has yet to report results from some satellite caucus sites, from which there are still an unknown number of state delegate equivalents to be won. The state party apologized for technical glitches with an app that slowed down reporting of results from Monday's caucuses and has spent the week trying to verify results. However, it was unclear if the party planned to follow the directive of the national leader to recanvass those results, a process that would likely require state officials to review caucus math worksheets completed at more than 1,600 caucus sites to ensure the calculations were done correctly and matched the reported results. ___ Amid irregularities, AP unable to declare winner in Iowa DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) - The Associated Press said Thursday that it is unable to declare a winner of Iowa's Democratic caucuses. With 97% of precincts reporting from Monday's caucuses, former South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg leads Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders by three state delegate equivalents out of 2,098 counted. That is a margin of 0.14 percentage points. However, even as the Iowa Democratic Party큦 effort to complete its tabulation of the caucus results continues, Democratic National Committee Chairman Tom Perez on Thursday asked the Iowa Democratic Party to conduct a recanvass. That is not a recount, but rather a check of the vote count to ensure the results were added correctly. Perez sought the recanvass following days of uncertainty about the results reported by the Iowa Democratic Party, which includes technology problems with the mobile phone app used by the party to collect results from caucus sites, an overwhelming number of calls to the party큦 backup phone system and a subsequent delay of several days of reporting the results. The Iowa Democratic Party suggested it may not comply with Perez큦 request, issuing a statement that said it would conduct a recanvass if one was requested by one of the candidates. ___ Trump says U.S. operation killed al-Qaida leader in Yemen WASHINGTON (AP) - President Donald Trump said Thursday that the U.S. at his direction has conducted a counter-terrorism operation in Yemen that killed Qassim al-Rimi, an al-Qaida leader who claimed responsibility for last year's deadly shooting at Naval Air Station Pensacola, where a Saudi aviation trainee killed three American sailors. Al-Rimi is a founder of al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula. The affiliate has long been considered the global network큦 most dangerous branch for its attempts to carry out attacks on the U.S. mainland. Trump said the U.S. and its allies are safer as a result of his death. "We will continue to protect the American people by tracking down and eliminating terrorists who seek to do us harm," Trump said. While Trump confirmed reports that al-Rimi had been killed, he did not say when the U.S. operation was conducted or offer any details about how it was carried out. Al-Rimi had said in an 18-minute video that his group was responsible for the Dec. 6 shooting at the base. He called the shooter, Saudi Air Force officer Mohammed Alshamrani, a "courageous knight" and a "hero." The shooter opened fire inside a classroom at the base, killing three people and wounding two sheriff큦 deputies before one of the deputies killed him. Eight others were also hurt. ___ Trump unleashes impeachment fury in acquittal 'celebration' WASHINGTON (AP) - Exulting in his impeachment acquittal, a defiant President Donald Trump took a scorched-earth victory lap Thursday, unleashing his fury against those who tried to remove him from office and pointing ahead to his reelection campaign. Triumphantly waving newspaper front pages that declared him "ACQUITTED," Trump denounced the impeachment proceedings as a "disgrace" and portrayed himself as a victim of political foes he labeled "scum," "sleaze bags" and "crooked" people. Hours earlier, he unleashed broadsides that stunned the crowd at an annual bipartisan prayer breakfast "It was evil, it was corrupt, it was dirty cops," Trump declared in a packed White House East Room, where he was surrounded by several hundred of his most loyal supporters. "This should never ever happen to another president, ever." He conceded nothing in regard to charges that he improperly withheld a White House meeting and U.S. military aid in an effort to pressure Ukraine to investigate Democratic rival Joe Biden and other political matters. "We went through hell, unfairly," he insisted. "Did nothing wrong." ___ McConnell remaking Senate in age of Trump, impeachment WASHINGTON (AP) - Long before Donald Trump큦 impeachment landed in the Senate, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had one piece of advice for the president: Focus on the House. Gin it up. Use maximum effort. Make sure Republicans are united. And leave the Senate to him. The Republican leader encouraged the president not to turn attention on wayward GOP senators, like Mitt Romney, who were "troubled눼 by Trump큦 actions toward Ukraine, but to stir the partisan passions of the House. It was the GOP leader's central strategy to produce as partisan an impeachment as possible -- too polarizing for any centrists to touch -- to secure Republican acquittal in the Senate. "He understood right from the start, this was crooked politics," said Trump, singling McConnell out for praise Thursday at the White House. "You did a fantastic job." ___ AP Source: Bryant memorial set for Feb. 24 at Staples Center LOS ANGELES (AP) - A public memorial service for Kobe Bryant, his daughter and seven others killed in a helicopter crash is planned for Feb. 24 at Staples Center, a person with knowledge of the details told The Associated Press on Thursday. The arena is where Bryant starred for the Los Angeles Lakers for most of his two-decade career and the date 2/24 corresponds with the No. 24 jersey he wore and the No. 2 worn by his 13-year-old daughter, Gianna. No official announcement about the memorial has been made. The person who provided the information to the AP is knowledgeable about the planning and spoke only on condition of anonymity. The Los Angeles Times was first to report the event, citing two anonymous sources with knowledge of the planning. Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti has said a memorial would be held but his office had no immediate comment, nor did the Lakers or Staples Center. Bryant was killed when the helicopter carrying him, his daughter and the others crashed into a mountainside in Calabasas, California, while flying to a girls basketball tournament at his Mamba Sports Academy. Gianna's team was coached by Bryant and was playing in the tournament. ___ King angry at CBS promo of interview questions about Bryant NEW YORK (AP) - In the wake of a social media backlash, CBS' Gayle King says she is embarrassed and angry with how the network promoted part of her interview with WNBA star Lisa Leslie that concerned the late Kobe Bryant. King responded via Twitter on Thursday to address the reaction to a video clip from her wide-ranging "CBS This Morning" interview with Leslie that aired Tuesday. The clip, distributed online and on CBS News' social media accounts, focused on a portion of the interview where Leslie addressed a sexual assault charge that had been brought against Bryant and dismissed. Bryant died in a helicopter crash in Southern California on Jan. 26. "I know that if I had only seen the clip that you saw, I'd be extremely angry with me, too," King said. "I am mortified, I am embarrassed and I'm very angry." CBS responded by agreeing that the excerpt "did not reflect the nature and tone" of the complete interview. "We are addressing the internal process that led to this and changes have already been made," CBS said. 
