{ By Sarah Sotoodeh For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:00, 5 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7970821/Justin-Bieber-says-hardest-roughest-season-life.html }
In the last episode of Justin Bieber: Seasons, the pop star revealed he quit drugs after he felt like he was 'dying.' And in episode six (Only Up From Here) of the intimate series, Justin Bieber revealed that 'this has been the hardest, roughest season of my life.' The 25-year-old artist, who jetted off to Utah with wife Hailey Bieber as a break from the album process during the episode, added: 'The pressure of delivering and delivering a good album. It's a lot of different things.'  The episode opens with Justin singing at Amangiri, Utah on a makeshift stage with Hailey sitting amongst the rocks and cheering him on. Lyrics include: 'You're voice is music to my ears, I'm wide awake...' After he finishes belting it out, he asked Hailey 'Do I sound good?' to which she said 'Heck yeah baby.' Justin asks: 'You sure?' and she replied:  'Positive.'  One week prior, Justin was in the studio recording new music, with him saying: 'Just nervous a little bit. Just expectations and stuff.' He says at the studio: 'I'll be honest I don't feel good. I struggle with massive anxiety,' before taking a deep breath. The Purpose star says to the camera: 'There's a lot of people I think that think that fame is this achievement that brings you fulfillment and happiness and the truth is, there's this weight and this heaviness on you to achieve and to be something.' Adding: 'People have these expectations of you. It's just a lot.' Hailey, 23, talked about Justin's health coach, Dr. Buzz Mingin:  'We started working with Buzz, who is amazing. He's a behavior specialist.' Footage of Justin at home with Buzz is seen alongside a member of his management team, with the singer saying: 'He remembers a time where I would get stressed and I'd remember that too, so that's a categorical trigger.' Buzz explains further: 'It's not the little details it's just under the category of this show or this event we did in the past and it felt this way. Your brain says I'm going to remember what it felt like...' Justin added: 'And you know what my brain says? Run!' Buzz says in his on-camera interview that when he first saw Justin, 'He really wasn't functional. His cortisol levels were through the roof.' He said that cortisol is a person's fight or flight mechanism. Justin explained that music helps him cope with his daily struggles: 'As humans, most of us don't want to admit this but we're hurting. Music helps me deal with my day-to-day struggles.' Justin candidly said 'this has been one of the hardest, roughest seasons of my life. The pressure of delivering and delivering a good album. It's a lot of different things.' His manager Scooter Braun said that he told the singer even if he couldn't sing, dance or entertain anymore, he'd still be in his life; Scooter discovered Justin on YouTube when the artist was just 13 years old.  Justin revealed he previously viewed him as an authority figure in his life. Dr. Mingin said Justin's life consists of a detailed schedule: 'A schedule like Justin's is like an NFL player playing Sunday football every single Sunday, every single week of the year, 52 games a year for 10 straight years. And it just can't be done.' Justin is seen in one of his hyperbaric chambers, which he revealed in the last episode as something he uses to combat his anxiety and help heal his body after his former drug use. Justin is given supplements to take by Hailey; she tells him he's taking them really late in the day. He then take a getaway with Hailey to Amangiri because he felt pressure during the middle of making his album. They were seen cuddling on a plane before going inside a convenience store.  Hailey said: 'He was recording things, getting new songs all the time and trying to figure out which direction he wanted to go in. It was good rest for us.' Justin: 'Amangiri was so fun. I just feel comfortable and safe traveling with Hailey.' Hailey added: 'Something that we love a lot as a couple is that we love to experience new things together because he has obviously the most in life - for somebody his age. He's been everywhere, he's seen everything, done everything, but he hasn't really done a lot of those things with a partner.' On if he thinks about work while on holiday, Justin said Dr. Mingin has helped him with that element 'because my brain has been foggy for so long, it's hard for me to compartmentalize stuff.' They are seen in their swimsuits on a boat with his new unreleased music playing on the speaker system; Hailey happily sing along with the words.  The next scene shows Justin at their vacation home late at 3 AM working on his new music.  Hailey explains his behavior: 'He's a night owl I will say that. He's always up in the nighttime eating cereal and just roaming around. I have no idea. I feel like creative people tend to be night owls.' She recalled: 'Where we were staying at was this big rock outside, almost like a little mountain and pitch black in the middle of the night, can't even see in front of you and Justin is like "let's go climb it."' 'Everything feels like something new when you're doing it with the right person. The stars were something I have never seen before in my whole life. You just felt like you were somehow closer to heaven,' Hailey said. A montage of couple shots of the lovebirds were shared, along with a black and white clip of them kissing in the middle of the desert.  Back in LA via private jet, they are seen at home cuddling up together and giggling, with Justin narrating: 'Life is good, life is amazing. We have so many things to be grateful for. So many things to wake up and look at like "Oh my gosh" but we got to make much of what we have. You can always be grateful for something.' The next clip showed Justin back in the studio three months to his album release as they looked over the songs and the order of it - the names of the song were written on note cards. Songs including names like Recognition, Second Emotion featuring Travis Scott, Angels Speak, Runnin Over, Habitual, Confirmation, Take It Out, Available and Yum Yum [his already released single Yummy] - 15 songs total.  Hailey says: 'That's an album right there.'  He tells the camera: 'We got maybe a couple more songs, we're pretty much done,' as he leaves the studio with Hailey and heads to the parking lot.  Soon after the episode drop, Justin shared his full song list to his Instagram - with 17 songs as the final number.  He also revealed that his new single, Intentions with featuring Quavo, and the music video drops Friday. The album Changes drops on Valentine's Day, February 14.  In the last episode of Seasons,  Justin revealed that he eventually decided to get sober because he was 'dying', and said people aren't aware of how 'serious' his addictions were.  He explained: 'I was, like, dying. People don't know how serious it got It was legit, crazy scary. I was waking up in the morning and first thing I was doing was popping pills and smoking a blunt and starting my day. It just got crazy.' 'I basically said to myself, 'God, if you are real, you get me through this season of stopping these pills and stuff, and if you do, I'll do the rest of the work.' I never did the actual work. I got off the pills but never went to the root of everything so I just circled back around which most people do.'  Justin admitted that he first tried marijuana when he was just 13, after rocketing to fame as a child when he was discovered on YouTube. After becoming dependent on weed, Justin began to drink lean - a narcotic substance often called purple drank or sizzurp - as well as taking pills, doing Molly, and trying mushrooms. Speaking about his addictions in an episode of his YouTube Premium documentary Justin Bieber: Seasons, he said: 'It was just an escape for me. I was young.' The pop star reveals he uses a hyperbaric chamber and endures IV infusions to get rid of toxins after years of drug abuse: 'I've abused my body in the past and now I'm just in the recovery process trying to make sure I'm taking care of the vessel that God's given me.' The Purpose singer's treatment plan also includes anti-depressants which help him 'get outta bed in the morning.' 'It fills up with oxygen,' he explained, adding; 'I really have been struggling with a lot of anxiety. You get more oxygen to your brain so it decreases your stress levels. It's pretty cool.' Hailey admitted that the couple has various chambers available for Justin to use at their house and in the studio. 'People are going to think he is a crazy person,' she said. 'People are going to be like "what is this contraption machine, that's some rich people s**t."' 'Mental health is so important to get on top of,' Bieber said. 'If you have ADHD if you have … something and you don't want to take medicine, I strongly believe in it.' Bieber heavily relies on the hyperbaric chamber, a treatment which encourages healing through pure oxygen in various air pressure levels. Hailey said she can understand why he would turn to drugs to make himself 'feel better.' The Love Yourself singer has an oxygen chamber in his house to help with his anxiety, and goes through nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) IV treatment to help flush toxins out of his body. Explaining the NAD process, Hailey told cameras: 'For people who used to have a drug problem, when they get sober, the pleasure centers of their brain don't work the same. So what NAD does is actually helps to repair that part of that brain and it helps repair the pleasure centers to balance them back out.' Justin recently confirmed his Lyme Disease diagnosis earlier this year as well in addition to a case of mono. 1. All Around Me 2. Habitual 3. Come Around Me 4. Intentions feat. Quavo 5. Yummy 6. Available 7. Forever feat. Post Malone & Clever 8. Running Over feat. Lil Dicky 9. Take It Out On Me 10. Second Emotion feat. Travis Scott 11. Get Me feat. Kehlani 12. ETA 13. Changes 14. Confirmation 15. That's What Love Is  16. At Least For Now 17. Yummy (Summer Walker remix)   
