{ By Megan Sheets For Dailymail.com    Published:  13:53, 5 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7969551/Moment-TV-surgeon-girlfriend-accused-raping-1-000-women-learn-charges-dropped.html }
A California surgeon and his model girlfriend who were accused of drugging and raping up to 1,000 women broke down in tears of relief when they learned that all charges against them will be dropped.  Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer made the bombshell announcement on Tuesday that his office will seek to dismiss the case against Grant Robicheaux, 39, and Cerissa Riley, 32.  The pair were charged in 2018 with sexually assaulting multiple women while they were incapacitated. At the time, then-District Attorney Tony Rackauckas claimed videos were found on the defendants phones which suggested there may be 'hundreds' of victims.   An emotional video captures the moment the defendants heard the bombshell announcement that the charges would be dropped.   'Thank you, lord. Thank you, lord. Thank you, Jesus,' Riley is heard saying in the footage aired Wednesday on Good Morning America.  A lawyer for Robicheaux - who once appeared on the Bravo TV show 'Online Dating Rituals of the American Male' - said his client is 'incredibly ecstatic' and feels vindicated by Spitzer's decision.     'Now we have to try to put Grant and Cerissa's life back together, which may not be possible,' attorney Philip Kent Cohen told the New York Times.  'It's incredibly scary as to what can flow from allegations and what can flow from media coverage and how a life can be destroyed overnight.'  Cohen also said it's highly likely that Robicheaux will be taking legal action.  Both defendants had maintained their innocence, arguing that they were swingers and the women were willing participants in their escapades. On Tuesday, Spitzer agreed. 'There is not a single piece of evidence or video or photo that shows an unconscious or incapacitated woman being sexually assaulted. Not one.' The DA also offered a public apology to Robicheaux and Riley.  'What happened to their lives and how this case materialized is nothing short of a travesty,' he said.  Spitzer also apologized to the alleged victims and said he plans to meet with them to explain why his review of the case did not sustain the burden of proof.   A lawyer for one of the alleged victims said he and his client are 'very disappointed with the decision'.   'If filing the charges against the doctor and his girlfriend garnered him attention in the race for district attorney, that's one thing,' Michael Fell said.  'Whether or not my client and the six other ladies were sexually assaulted is a completely different issue.' Spitzer has long criticized the case, claiming it was used for political gain by his predecessor Rackauckas during his 2018 re-election campaign.  During Tuesday's news conference he accused Rackauckas of 'manufacturing' a case against Robicheaux and Riley, charging that he and his staff 'repeatedly misstated the evidence' to convince people that the couple had plied women with drugs and alcohol and then sexually assaulted them.  In a subtle shot at the former DA, he said: 'I didn't create this situation, but it's my responsibility to fix it.'   At a press conference in September 2018, Rackauckas investigators had recovered 'hundreds' of incriminating videos from the couple's phones. Asked if the number of videos could be as high as 1,000, he replied: 'I think so.'  Defense lawyers said no such videos exist.  'The fact is that the videos, having now been reviewed, do not reflect any victims of rape, let alone thousands, hundreds, or tens,' Cohen, Robicheaux's attorney, wrote in a January 2019 filing.   Cohen charged that prosecutors statements at the beginning of the case 'set off a frenzy that completely destroyed the integrity of this case and the defendants' ability to obtain a fair trial'.  Spitzer defeated Rackauckas in the November 2018 election for Orange County DA. He ordered a review of the case after Rackauckas admitted in a June 2019 deposition taken by Robicheaux's lawyer that 'he had used the case to garner media attention to help his re-election campaign', prosecutors said. Spitzer said he was appalled by what the team of prosecutors - who he said have a combined 175 years of experience - found after poring over thousands of photos, videos, documents and communications related to the case.  'This exhaustive review revealed there was not a single video or photograph depicting an incapacitated woman being sexually assaulted by Robicheaux or Riley,' he said in a press release.  'My sworn duty as the elected district attorney is not to secure convictions. My sworn duty is to pursue justice and ensure that the rights of victims and defendants are protected.  Spitzer said he has referred Rackauckas' handling of the case to the State Bar for review and is conducting an internal personnel investigation.  'What the prior district attorney and his chief of staff did to these defendants and to the women involved in this case is a travesty,' he said. Rackauckas has not returned media requests for comment.   Robicheaux and Riley both pleaded not guilty in October 2018 to 17 felony counts each, including rape by use of drugs, assault with intent to commit a sexual offense, and possession of a controlled substance for sale to drugging and sexually assaulting multiple victims.  Robicheaux was charged in connection with seven alleged victims and faced 82 years to life in prison if convicted. Riley was charged over five alleged victims and faced 63 years to life.   They have been out on $1million bail since entering their pleas.    Prosecutors initially alleged the pair trawled bars and restaurants in Newport Beach for victims and also hunted their prey at festivals including Burning Man, the Dirtybird Campout festival and the Splash House festival in Palm Springs. The first set of charges stemmed from two victims who said they met Robicheaux and Riley at social events in Southern California, where they became intoxicated and ended up at Robicheaux's home.   In the first case, a 32-year-old woman said she met the couple at a restaurant in Newport Beach in April 2016. She said the duo invited her to party on a boat. Prosecutors claimed that once she was intoxicated they 'escorted' her to Robicheaux's apartment, gave her 'multiple drugs' and then raped her. The victim reported the alleged rape to police the following day, and tests showed she had multiple controlled substances in her system.   The second victim alleges she was attacked on October 2, 2016, after meeting the couple in a Newport Beach bar. She says she drank with them until she was 'unconscious' and then woke up to them 'sexually assaulting her'. She screamed for help and neighbors called police.  During the investigation, authorities said videos were found on the couple's phones which suggested they could have taken advantage of up to 1,000 women.   Police searched Robicheaux's apartment in January 2018 and found ecstasy, date-rape drugs and cocaine.  The surgeon was also accused of possessing two illegal, unregistered assault rifles, four other firearms and several large-capacity magazines.  Robicheaux attended undergrad at Louisiana State University and graduated from its medical school in 2007. He then did postgraduate work at New York University Hospital for Joint Diseases in New York City and completed his orthopedic surgery residency at University of California Irvine Medical Center in Orange, California. He was licensed to practice medicine in California on May 30, 2009. Robicheaux's attorney has said none of the allegations involved his medical practice or patients.  Riley previously worked as a substitute teacher in the Fullerton School District. Her last assignment there was in October 2015 and there had been no complaints regarding her conduct. After they were charged, the pair released a statement saying:  'We unequivocally deny all allegations of non-consensual sex and absolutely deny any allegations that we have ever secretly drugged anyone for the purpose of having sex with them. We have both passed polygraph tests on each of the questions and we look forward to the truth coming out. 'We have been aware of this investigation since the search warrant in January, and as a result of the search we were well aware that the police had taken computers, phones, and digital storage items for review. We didn’t flee, we didn’t move and we didn’t go into hiding. 'Before our arrests in this case, we had great friends, great lives and great careers that allowed us to make positive contributions to our community. We look forward to getting our lives back. 'We have and will continue to stay here to clear our names we worked hard to establish. 'United, we thank our families and friends for being in court with us, for supporting us and for loving us.     
