{ By Vanessa Chalmers Health Reporter For Mailonline   Published:  10:26, 5 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//health/article-7968939/Its-like-bad-dream-Parents-boy-four-childhood-dementia-reveal-heartbreak.html }
The parents of a four-year-old boy with childhood dementia say it's 'too late' to slow the disease.   James Young, from South Shields, Tyne and Wear, has been robbed of the ability to walk, feed himself or talk. His condition has rapidly gone downhill since the age of two, as doctors struggled to work out why he was having seizures and behaving oddly.  Parents Diana and Dean Young say they were 'palmed off' with suspected diagnoses of epilepsy and autism. It wasn't until January this year they were finally told James has the rare Batten disease – otherwise known as childhood dementia – which affects an estimated 30 to 50 children in the UK. The couple, who say they are living a 'bad dream', believe that the severity of James' condition could have been avoided if he had been diagnosed earlier.   The neuro-degenerative is incurable, but can be slowed. The life expectancy is just 12 years old, but a recently funded drug on the NHS could change that.   Mr Young, 33, previously a kitchen and bedroom fitter, said: 'We both feel angry. Why James? Why us? We were supposed to have the rest of our lives together in our perfect family. 'Everything seems very dark and very uncertain. 'It's been terrible. I've cried every day since he was diagnosed. 'Diana and I both feel totally helpless. We know the disease is going to take over, we just don't know when. 'He's already deteriorated a lot. He can't walk without assistance and he can only say ten words or so and they're fairly unclear.  'The whole experience has been like a bad dream.' From an early age Mr and Mrs Young both thought there was something wrong with their son. Mrs Young, 29, said: 'We knew there was something not right. When James was two we thought he'd be talking and doing toilet training but he never really spoke. 'Trying to get him to go to the loo didn't really happen. It just progressed from there. 'He started developing behavioural problems. He would smash things and I remember him throwing apple juice at the TV once.' Because of his developmental issues, Mr and Mrs Young decided to have James tested for autism. But the test never took place. Two days after their wedding in June 2019 the couple were forced to return to the UK from their honeymoon in Spain after James had a severe seizure. Batten disease, also known as Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinoses, is a rare genetically-inherited disease. It is caused by waste buildup in the cells which creates neurodegnerative effects including: Because it is a rare disease, it is often difficult to diagnosed and untested at birth.   There are 14,000 children worldwide that are diagnosed with the disorder. There is currently no known cure or treatment available for Batten disease. James was initially diagnosed with Doose syndrome - an epileptic condition - in August 2019 before being finally diagnosed with Batten disease in January 2020. Batten disease is a disorder of the nervous system which begins in childhood. There are different forms of the illness depending on when symptoms begin. James has the CLN2 type, only recorded 300 times worldwide in scientific literature. Collectively Batten disease strikes an estimated one in 100,000 people worldwide – including one or two of every 50,000 children in the US and up to six babies born in the UK a year. Common symptoms for most of the forms include seizures, eventual loss of basic skills, dementia and abnormal movements. The heartbreaking disease progressively gets worse, losing intellectual ability and language skills. They may also be confused or anxious - just like the elderly who are diagnosed with dementia.   Eventually, children with Batten disease become blind, wheelchair bound, bedridden, and without cognitive function.  Mr and Mrs Young said James is losing the ability to walk properly and feed himself unaided after being diagnosed.  Mrs Young, who used to work in Debenhams, said: 'He's struggling at the moment. He's having a lot more seizures and his medication isn't really working. 'He's struggling to walk and has tremors, even when he's asleep. 'It's been a total fight. 'When he was two we thought he had speech problems but when he hit three we knew there was something wrong. Cerliponase alfa in an active ingredient marketed as Brineura used to treat people with CLN2 Batten disease, an inherited condition in children that leads to progressive brain damage. Patients with CLN2 lack an enzyme required for normal brain development called tripeptidyl-peptidase1 (TPP1). The active substance in Brineura, cerliponase alfa, is a synthetic copy of TPP1 and is used as a replacement for the missing enzyme.   Brineura has been shown in early studies to reduce the rate at which the disease worsens and causes speech and movement difficulties. Because there are so few people that would benefit from Brineura, it was labelled an ‘orphan medicine’, which is a medicine used in rare diseases, in March 2013.  'We kept on getting palmed off for epilepsy but we knew there was something not right.' Because of the rarity of the condition, it took a long time to diagnose James. Mr and Mrs Young believe this has scuppered the success of his treatment.  Mrs Young said: 'Because of the delays it's probably too late to stop the symptoms progressing now so we're stuck in a situation where hopefully we'll be able to prolong his life. 'Any treatment will just slow the progression of the disease, but not cure him.' No specific treatment is known that can reverse the symptoms of any form of Batten disease.  James is being given the drug cerliponase alfa, marketed as Brineura. The NHS finally agreed to fund it in September after some children were given it as part of a trial. The NHS watchdog had previously rejected the drug which caused uproar among families of children with Batten disease. Studies have shown Brineura can slow down the progression of the disease and possibly prolong life. It is estimated that individuals could live for 60 years with treatment. James is receiving Brineura treatment at Great Ormond Street Hospital in London and is still smiling every day.  But his diagnosis has had a devastating effect on the family and Mr and Mrs Young have had to leave their jobs to care for James. Mr Young said: 'When we got married we thought our lives would stretch out for ever and now it's all gone. 'We've had to leave our jobs at the minute to care for him full time.'        James' older sister, Gracie, nine, helps him walk, eat his meals, and even reads him his favourite stories. Mr Young said: 'Gracie is like another mum to James. She's a saviour. 'She'll do anything she can to help. She'll read the Gruffalo with him, it's his favourite book and he loves reading it with her. 'Every time James wants a drink she'll go and get him one, she helps feed him at most meals too. 'She's constantly mothering him. She'll do anything she can to help like even turning the oven on before we cook dinner. 'She'll even try and help wash the dishes, she just wants to help her baby brother.'   He added: 'Gracie knows that something is wrong with James but we haven't explained the full outcome to her. 'She's always positive and always keeps our spirits up.'  James's family are raising money on GoFundMe to pay for their travel expenses while James has his treatment. You can donate here. Batten disease is rare and affects an estimated two to four of every 100,000 live births in the United States. The fatal, inherited disorder of the nervous system usually begins in childhood and suffers are not expected to live to their teenage years. It is caused by waste buildup in the cells which creates neurodegnerative effects including, blindness, seizures, loss of speech and mobility.  Here are some other children who are living or have died from the heartbreaking disease. Titus and Ely Bowman Brothers from California, both were diagnosed with Batten disease. Titus was began showing symptoms in 2013 and died in 2016 at the age of six. Ely, three, was diagnosed in 2015 and his family started a GoFundMe to pay for accessing treatment. Mila Makovec Six-year-old Mila, of Boulder, Colorado, began showing symptoms of Batten disease when she was three years old.   Her parents launched a fundraiser to raise $4million so she could get treatment that she needed to extend her life.  Ollie and Amelia Carroll Brother and sister Ollie and Ameila, of the United Kingdom, were diagnosed months apart in 2015 with Late Infantile Batten Disease. Ameila's mother Lucy said: 'I have dreamed of taking her to ballet class, of doing our nails, hair and make up together, talking about boys, seeing her get married being there when she had her own baby. All of this will never happen.' Ellie Mae and Caleb Brownnutt  Siblings Ellie Mae and Caleb were taken on bucket list of activities and trips to Disneyland in Paris by their parents before they died from the fatal disease.  The disease affects only one to three children in the UK each year.     
