medicine
{ By Sarah Sotoodeh and Tracy Wright For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:02, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7966655/Justin-Bieber-cuts-casual-figure-arrives-studio-LA-revealing-drug-use.html }
His revealing docu-series Seasons gives fans an up close and personal view of his life in the spotlight.  And in the latest episode, Justin Bieber revealed that due to his excessive drug use, his security 'would come into my room at night to check my pulse.' After the scary admission, the 25-year-old singer was seen arriving to Sound Studio in Los Angeles before later heading to a workout with a pal. For his Tuesday outing, Justin cut a casual figure in a SpongeBob Square Pants hoodie, adding shorts, sneakers and a headband. Soon after, wife Hailey Bieber stepped out separately in Santa Monica; she grabbed two bags worth of groceries from celeb favorite Erewhon. The 23-year-old model looked effortlessly chic in a pink hued coat over a cream turtleneck, adding white cuffed trousers. In his Seasons episode, Justin revealed that he eventually decided to get sober because he was 'dying', and said people aren't aware of how 'serious' his addictions were. He explained: 'I was, like, dying. People don't know how serious it got It was legit, crazy scary. I was waking up in the morning and first thing I was doing was popping pills and smoking a blunt and starting my day. It just got crazy.' Hailey, said that they didn't get involved 'until he chose to get sober.' 'I basically said to myself, 'God, if you are real, you get me through this season of stopping these pills and stuff, and if you do, I'll do the rest of the work.' I never did the actual work. I got off the pills but never went to the root of everything so I just circled back around which most people do.' Justin admitted that he first tried marijuana when he was just 13, after rocketing to fame as a child when he was discovered on YouTube. After becoming dependent on weed, Justin began to drink lean - a narcotic substance often called purple drank or sizzurp - as well as taking pills, doing Molly, and trying mushrooms.  Speaking about his addictions in an episode of his YouTube Premium documentary Justin Bieber: Seasons, he said: 'It was just an escape for me. I was young.' The pop star reveals he uses a hyperbaric chamber and endures IV infusions to get rid of toxins after years of drug abuse: 'I've abused my body in the past and now I'm just in the recovery process trying to make sure I'm taking care of the vessel that God's given me.' The Purpose singer's treatment plan also includes anti-depressants which help him 'get outta bed in the morning.'  During the episode, Justin also took time to explain how the hyperbaric chamber worked as he sat inside a plastic, deflated contraption. 'It fills up with oxygen,' he explained, adding; 'I really have been struggling with a lot of anxiety. You get more oxygen to your brain so it decreases your stress levels. It's pretty cool.'  Hailey admitted that the couple has various chambers available for Justin to use at their house and in the studio. 'People are going to think he is a crazy person,' she said. 'People are going to be like "what is this contraption machine, that's some rich people s**t."' 'Mental health is so important to get on top of,' Bieber said. 'If you have ADHD if you have … something and you don't want to take medicine, I strongly believe in it.' Bieber heavily relies on the hyperbaric chamber, a treatment which encourages healing through pure oxygen in various air pressure levels.  Hailey said she can understand why he would turn to drugs to make himself 'feel better.' She said: 'I think when you take somebody very, very young and they get horrible, crazy crippling anxiety and it goes undiagnosed and you don't know what it is you are feeling, you start to self-medicate because it makes you feel better. Just helping not to feel anything.' Now, the Love Yourself singer has an oxygen chamber in his house to help with his anxiety, and goes through nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) IV treatment to help flush toxins out of his body. Explaining the NAD process, Hailey told cameras: 'For people who used to have a drug problem, when they get sober, the pleasure centers of their brain don't work the same. So what NAD does is actually helps to repair that part of that brain and it helps repair the pleasure centers to balance them back out.'  Justin recently confirmed his Lyme Disease diagnosis earlier this year as well in addition to a case of mono.    
