medicine
{ By Sameer Suri For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:12, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7966431/Meghan-Trainor-models-pink-Legally-Blonde-look-day-Jessica-Simpson.html }
Great minds think alike. Meghan Trainor, 26, was spotted in New York Tuesday modeling a bubblegum pink ensemble, which teamed with her platinum hair was reminiscent of Legally Blonde. That same day her fellow blonde pop star Jessica Simpson stepped out in the city that never sleeps wearing a hot pink look of her own. Meghan threw a wide-set blazer over her crop top and used a sash to cinch in the waistline of her flowing slacks. She accentuated her unmistakable features with makeup and added a splash of dazzle to the look with a jeweled necklace. The Nantucket-born singer is doing the publicity rounds for her new album Treat Myself, which she dropped last Friday. Meghan swung by Z100 Studio in New York that day and posed up for a photo with Morning Show radio host Elvis Duran. She also sat down with Zane Lowe on Apple Music's Beats 1 and shed some light on the panic attack she suffered on live TV. Meghan was on the air with Gayle King to present the 2017 Grammy nominations, the year after she won the best new artist prize at that award show.  She revealed that 'I had vocal problems 'cause I was working too much. I finally collapsed physically and emotionally. I had like a mental breakdown and I had panic attacks live on television with Gayle King.' Meghan recalled: 'I was reading the nominees for the Grammy's the year after I won and I was shaking and I was like, please don't collapse on TV right now. We're live. And as soon as they were like, cut, I fell and started scream crying and couldn't breathe. And later, they took me away.' She added: I was supposed to do more work and they were like: "We're done. This is it.” It was because I had, I can't say who but I had a lot of people tell me like, if you cancel on this 30 minute set, we'll never play Meghan Trainor ever again.' Meghan reflected: 'So I had everything. I had my Grammy, I had what people dream of for years. I had everything I ever wanted, and they were threatening to take it away. So, my mind was like, no I'll keep going, I'll keep going. And my body was like, bye. And my body had to tell me, instead of me being able to take a break.' The All About That Bass singer shared: 'Like the saddest thing is like, your whole team is in the hospital with you like, everything's gonna be okay. And you're like, like can't talk. You cannot speak. So I was alone with my thoughts for way too long and I blew up. I freaked out and I freaked out for a long time.' Her health problems became so severe that 'I had a vocal surgery a year after I won my Grammy on the day of the Grammy’s.' Meghan confided that 'I met so many doctors and I would just cry to them, be like, it's something right here. Can you just fix it for me? Help me out and finally, uh, I went to a psychologist and I said, my back is burning. Like as if someone's holding a torch to it. But I'm okay.' The doctor suggested medication 'And I was like, all right but like I don't know if I wanna go on medicine. And how long does it take? Do I have to be on it forever? And when I get pregnant, do I come off the medicine? And he gave me two medicines that I take every single day and it saved me. Saved my life.' 
