medicine
{ By William Cole For Mailonline   Published:  00:32, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8036047/Petra-Nemcova-discusses-difficult-birth-child-Bodhi.html }
 Petra Nemcova has spoken out for the first time about the 'difficult' arrival of her first child and their dramatic start to life. The Czech supermodel, 40, welcomed son Bodhi - which means enlightenment in Sanskrit - in November last year at home in the Dominican Republic. She told Hello! magazine that the child, who she shares with her entrepreneur husband Benjamin Larretche, was born six weeks premature and delivered by emergency C-section.   'We had always planned for our baby's arrival to be as natural as possible without drugs, and we ended up relying on modern medicine to save our baby and we could not be more grateful,' she said. 'We had been hoping for everything natural and we had a completely different deck of cards to deal with.  'They brought him to me so I could see his little cute face and smell him and give him my love but I could not do skin-to-skin as they had to take care of him being so premature. 'Seeing him with all the tubes everywhere, the constant noise of the machines, and all the injections he had, that was very difficult. But Benjamin is so strong, calm, and always so positive. 'Now he is thriving, he is very happy and so loved. He is super healthy and strong and he has grown so much. We are so grateful, and we are in such a happy place now.' Nemcova, who has modelled for Sports Illustrated and Victoria's Secret, survived the 2004 Boxing Day tsunami that killed her then fiancé Simon Atlee. She subsequently set up the Happy Hearts Fund which helps in countries that have suffered disaster. 'That experience will always be a part of my life,' she told the magazine. 'It definitely shaped my outlook in many ways. It is still part of who I am, but this is definitely a new and beautiful chapter for me.' Larretche said seeing his wife and son together brought him 'so much joy'. He added: 'Petra is a natural born mother who has taken care of others most of her life and now it makes me content to see that she has the opportunity of taking care of our child. 'Waking up in the morning and seeing Bodhi's smile is a true blessing, it fuels my day.' Petra announced that she was expecting in August via Instagram, with the announcement following a whirlwind romance for the model and her French-Venezuelan entrepreneur husband.  The following month, they celebrated their son's impending arrival with an eco-friendly baby shower.  'My husband and I share the same purpose of creating a more conscious and sustainable world for future generations, so we, of course, wanted to create a conscious baby shower for our little one,' she told People at the time.  Read the full article in Hello! magazine, out now 
