medicine
{ By Megan Sheets For Dailymail.com  and Associated Press   Published:  17:02, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7966125/Prosecutor-discuss-rape-case-against-California-surgeon.html }
California prosecutors have announced they will drop all charges against an orthopedic surgeon and his girlfriend who were accused of drugging and sexually assaulting up to 1,000 women on camera.  Newly-elected Orange County District Attorney Todd Spitzer accused his predecessor of 'manufacturing' a case against Grant Robicheaux, 39 - who once appeared on 'Online Dating Rituals of the American Male' - and Cerissa Riley, 32.  Spitzer said Tony Rackauckas and his staff 'repeatedly misstated the evidence' to convince people that the couple had plied women with drugs and alcohol and then sexually assaulted them. The couple argued that they were swingers and the women were willing participants in their escapades, that stashes of cocaine, ecstasy and date-rape drug GHB found in their home was part of the local party scene, and that they were being punished for their lifestyle. On Tuesday, Spitzer agreed. 'There is not a single video or photograph depicting an unconscious or incapacitated woman being sexually assaulted,' he said.   Spitzer has long criticized the case, claiming it was used for political gain by former District Attorney Tony Rackauckas during his 2018 re-election campaign.   He said on Tuesday that a full review of the case by his office found insufficient evidence to proceed.   'There is not a single piece of evidence or video or photo that shows an unconscious or incapacitated woman being sexually assaulted. Not one,' Spitzer said.  'No one felt any of the charged victims, the seven, could be proven,' Spitzer added. The district attorney said he will meet with the alleged victims to explain to them why the review did not sustain the burden of proof. He also offered a public apology to Robicheaux and Riley.  'What happened to their lives and how this case materialized is nothing short of a travesty,' he said.  In a subtle shot at Rackauckas, he said: 'I didn't create this situation, but it's my responsibility to fix it.'  The defendants, who maintained their innocence throughout the course of the case, have not publicly commented on the announcement about charges being dropped.  In a previous interview, their lawyer Philip Cohen claimed that a number of the couple's accusers were well-known as party girls on the swinger scene. They say the women willingly dated Robicheaux, willingly went to parties with the doctor and his girlfriend, and willingly went back to his home.  Some of them willingly took drugs besides GHB or willingly had sex with the couple on nights aside from the night of the alleged rapes. The case has been mired in controversy since Rackauckas announced the first set of charges against Robicheaux and Riley in September 2018. Last October, Spitzer asked the California Attorney General's Office to take over the prosecution citing concerns of a conflict of interest as he had previously accused his predecessor of improperly handling the case and using it to draw publicity during his re-election bid.  The state's attorneys determined there wasn't an issue and the county should proceed. In September 2018, then-District Attorney Rackauckas said during a press conference that investigators were sifting through thousands of videos and images found on Robicheaux's phone and that some that showed women who were barely responsive.  Defense lawyers said no such videos exist.  'The fact is that the videos, having now been reviewed, do not reflect any victims of rape, let alone thousands, hundreds, or tens,' attorney Philip Cohen wrote in a January 2019 filing.   Cohen charged that prosecutors statements at the beginning of the case 'set off a frenzy that completely destroyed the integrity of this case and the defendants' ability to obtain a fair trial'.    Robicheaux and Riley both pleaded not guilty in October 2018 to a slew of felony charges including rape by use of drugs, assault with intent to commit a sexual offense, and possession of a controlled substance for sale to drugging and sexually assaulting multiple victims.  Robicheaux faced 82 years to life in prison if convicted and Riley faced 63 years to life.   They were released on $1million bail after entering their pleas.    Prosecutors alleged the pair trawled bars and restaurants in Newport Beach for victims and also hunted their prey at festivals including Burning Man, the Dirtybird Campout festival and the Splash House festival in Palm Springs. The first set of charges stemmed from two victims who said they met Robicheaux and Riley at social events in Southern California, where they became intoxicated and ended up at Robicheaux's home.   In the first case, a 32-year-old woman said she met the couple at a restaurant in Newport Beach in April 2016. She said the duo invited her to party on a boat. Prosecutors claim that once she was intoxicated they 'escorted' her to Robicheaux's apartment, gave her 'multiple drugs' and then raped her. The victim reported the alleged rape to police the following day, and tests showed she had multiple controlled substances in her system.   The second victim alleges she was attacked on October 2, 2016, after meeting the couple in a Newport Beach bar. She says she drank with them until she was 'unconscious' and then woke up to them 'sexually assaulting her'. She screamed for help and neighbors called police.  During the investigation, authorities said videos were found on the couple's phones which suggested they could have taken advantage of up to 1,000 women.   Police searched Robicheaux's apartment in January 2018 and found ecstasy, date-rape drugs and cocaine.  The surgeon was also accused of possessing two illegal, unregistered assault rifles, four other firearms and several large-capacity magazines.  Robicheaux attended undergrad at Louisiana State University and graduated from its medical school in 2007. He then did postgraduate work at New York University Hospital for Joint Diseases in New York City and completed his orthopedic surgery residency at University of California Irvine Medical Center in Orange, California. He was licensed to practice medicine in California on May 30, 2009. Robicheaux's attorney has said none of the allegations involved his medical practice or patients.  Riley previously worked as a substitute teacher in the Fullerton School District. Her last assignment there was in October 2015 and there had been no complaints regarding her conduct. After they were charged, the pair released a statement saying:  'We unequivocally deny all allegations of non-consensual sex and absolutely deny any allegations that we have ever secretly drugged anyone for the purpose of having sex with them. We have both passed polygraph tests on each of the questions and we look forward to the truth coming out. 'We have been aware of this investigation since the search warrant in January, and as a result of the search we were well aware that the police had taken computers, phones, and digital storage items for review. We didn’t flee, we didn’t move and we didn’t go into hiding. 'Before our arrests in this case, we had great friends, great lives and great careers that allowed us to make positive contributions to our community. We look forward to getting our lives back. 'We have and will continue to stay here to clear our names we worked hard to establish. 'United, we thank our families and friends for being in court with us, for supporting us and for loving us.     
