{ By Tracy Wright and Sarah Sotoodeh For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:48, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7965575/Justin-Bieber-sleeps-hyperbaric-chamber-relies-IV-infusions-years-drug-use.html }
Justin Bieber revealed in his Seasons docuseries that he uses a hyperbaric chamber and endures IV infusions to rid his body of toxins following years of drug abuse. The 25-year-old singer explained that he's been 'struggling with a lot of anxiety' as he climbed into his own personal chamber during the 14-minute clip. 'I've abused my body in the past and now I'm just in the recovery process trying to make sure I'm taking care of my body and taking care of the vessel that God's given me,' he said. His unique treatment plan also includes anti-depressants which help him 'get outta bed in the morning.' Justin sat inside of a plastic, deflated contraption as he explained how the hyperbaric chamber worked. 'It fills up with oxygen,' he said. I really have been struggling with a lot of anxiety. You get more oxygen to your brain so it decreases your stress levels. It's pretty cool.'  Hailey admitted that the couple has various chambers available for Justin to use at their house and in the studio. 'People are going to think he is a crazy person,' she said. 'People are going to be like "what is this contraption machine, that's some rich people s**t."' 'Mental health is so important to get on top of,' Bieber said. 'If you have ADHD if you have … something and you don't want to take medicine, I strongly believe in it.'  Bieber heavily relies on the hyperbaric chamber, a treatment which encourages healing through pure oxygen in various air pressure levels.   In addition, the Love Yourself singer receives NAD+ (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) infusions through an IV drip to give him energy, a process generally used to treat Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease.  'Basically, what it does is it's going to flush out some of the toxins,' he shared. Bieber revealed that he first tried marijuana when he was just 13 after rocketing to fame as a child when he was discovered on YouTube. After becoming dependent on weed, Justin began to drink lean — a narcotic substance often called purple drank or sizzurp — as well as taking pills, doing Molly, and trying mushrooms. Speaking about his addictions in an episode of his YouTube Premium documentary 'Justin Bieber: Seasons', he said: 'It was just an escape for me. I was young.' Adding: 'My experience was in front of cameras and I had a different level of exposure.' The Yummy hitmaker made headlines as a teenager for getting into trouble with the law, and says he 'valued the wrong things' in life because they were being 'dangled' in front of him. He added: 'I started valuing the wrong things in this business because there were things dangling in front of me. The truth is, I never had the tools. My parents never gave me those tools to be a good team player.' Justin eventually decided to get sober because he was 'dying', and said people aren't aware of how 'serious' his addictions were. He explained: 'I was, like, dying. People don't know how serious it got It was legit, crazy scary. 'I basically said to myself, 'God, if you are real, you get me through this season of stopping these pills and stuff, and if you do, I'll do the rest of the work.' I never did the actual work. I got off the pills but never went to the root of everything so I just circled back around which most people do.' Justin's wife Hailey Bieber, 23, also appears in the documentary, and whilst she didn't meet the star until after he was sober, she can understand why he would turn to drugs to make himself 'feel better'. She said: 'I think when you take somebody very, very young and they get horrible, crazy crippling anxiety and it goes undiagnosed and you don't know what it is you are feeling, you start to self-medicate because it makes you feel better. Just helping not to feel anything.' Now, the Love Yourself singer has an oxygen chamber in his house to help with his anxiety, and goes through nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) IV treatment to help flush toxins out of his body. Explaining the NAD process, Hailey told cameras: 'For people who used to have a drug problem, when they get sober, the pleasure centers of their brain don't work the same. So what NAD does is actually helps to repair that part of that brain and it helps repair the pleasure centers to balance them back out.' A hyperbaric chamber is a highly-pressurized room or tube where a patient is given pure oxygen to breathe.  The air pressure in these chambers is three times higher than normal pressure outside.  Lungs operate on gas exchange, which happens more or less efficiently at different pressures.  At this higher air pressure, the lungs are able to take in more oxygen than under normal conditions.  All the body's tissues require oxygen to live and stay healthy, so in a hyperbaric chamber the lungs take in more oxygen which is then carried throughout the body to restore tissues that may be struggling or infected.  Oxygen also help to reduce inflammation and encourage new blood vessels to grow.  WHAT ARE HYPERBARIC CHAMBERS USED TO TREAT?  Hyperbaric oxygen therapy is a proven treatment for decompression sickness, a condition that some people develop after SCUBA diving, wherein the high pressure of being deep under water causes nitrogen to form in their blood vessels.  This typically causes muscle and joint aches and fatigue, but in rare cases can prove fatal. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy reverses the process that allows the dangerous nitrogen bubbles to form.  According to the Mayo Clinic, doctors may also recommend hyperbaric oxygen therapy for:    Although claims have been made that the therapy helps a whole hosts of other medical issues, there is only scientific evidence to support the above uses.  There isn't significant reason to believe it treats conditions like fibromyalgia, depression or chronic fatigue syndrome.     
