medicine
{ By Louise Ayling For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  00:52, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7962677/Horrifying-images-devastating-health-effects-illegal-tropical-nut-boom-Australia-black-markets.html }
An illegal tropic nut as addictive as cigarettes and coffee is leaving heavy users with rotting teeth and gaping wounds in their faces. The betel nut, which is commonly used as a chewing product among certain Asian cultures has a psycho-stimulant effect - similar to coffee or other amphetamines. Despite the nut being banned in Australia, experts are seeing an increasing number of people Down Under with symptoms from heavy use.  The tropical nut is chewed widely across South-East Asia and the Pacific and often mixed with lime powder to produce an addictive paste that stains the teeth and mouth a vibrant red. Regular use can cause bad breath, tooth wear, gum recession, bleeding gums, and mouth cancer. Under Australian law it's illegal to possess, consume or sell the betel nut, which is listed as a schedule four poison because it contains carcinogens. The Australian Drug Foundation says there is no safe level of the drug's use. Despite this, the Australian Dental Association has seen a significant increase in the rates of oral cancer linked to regular and heavy use of betel quid. The increase has coincided with a rise in migrant numbers from South-East Asia like India, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Taiwan and Myanmar. ADA's oral medicine specialist Professor Michael McCullough said the use of the nut in Australia had surged in line with an increase in immigration.   ‘When I started doing oral medicine about 25 to 35 years ago it was very uncommon to see a condition called oral submucous fibrosis and that’s caused by the long term use of Betel quid,' he told Daily Mail Australia. 'But now over the last couple of years we’ve been seeing an increasing number of people-who have got those changes.' While the figures of positive cases nationwide are still largely unknown, anecdotally dentists are collectively seeing around 60 to 100 people a year of suspected cases. Increases have been seen in Melbourne, Sydney and Perth. Professor McCullough said as user numbers increase, the health concerns can be devastating for users as ‘oral submucous fibrosis’ sets in. ‘It actually starts affecting the connective tissue- the stuff just underneath the mouth- It gets a bit tighter, so they lose the ability to open their mouth very wide- and they also get white and red patches on the skin inside their mouth, and they’re really a big sign of the development of oral cancer.’ He said it can be difficult for users to stop when they start using the tropical nut with regularity. ‘It’s very addictive so a lot of these patients don’t want to give up or find it very very difficult to give up,’ he said. 'And a lot of the time they actually include tobacco in the Betel quid as well so it’s even more addictive and also has more carcinogens as well which cause the cancer.' Increasing rates of the drug’s use are thought to be linked to a possible boom in the product’s sale on Australia black market. Market vendors in Far North Queensland believe a crackdown on the nut’s trade within bazaars around Cains have simply shifted the illegal product’s sale behind closed doors. Stallholder Aore Groves told ABC news it’s just as easy to access, but it’s no longer out in the open. ‘It's really in great demand all across Australia,’ she said. ‘[People] now just sell it at home,’ she said. But Professor McCullough said the nut is so widely available in Australia these immigrant populations aren’t seeing it as a black market product. 
