{ By Alisha Rouse and Zoe Zaczek For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:00, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7962911/Michael-McCormack-clings-leadership-National-party-defeating-Barnaby-Joyce.html }
Michael McCormack has clung to the leadership of the National party, seeing off a challenge from former leader Barnaby Joyce.  But there is already mounting speculation the pppular MP could make a second bid to become deputy prime minister, after losing out by only a handful of votes.  The chaos threatens to overshadow the first week of parliament, at a time when critics say bushfire victims should be the focus of the government's efforts. National party MPs voted for a new leader after backbencher Llew O'Brien called for a leadership spill on Tuesday morning.  As happened in 2018 when Malcolm Turnbull was challenged by Peter Dutton, and then again by Mr Dutton and Scott Morrison, the National party's leadership crisis could continue for several days. It comes amid a tumultuous week for the party, after its deputy leader Bridget McKenzie was forced to resign over the sports rorts scandal.  David Littleproud was voted to replace her as deputy leader. Asked whether he expected Mr Joyce to make a second challenge for the leadership, Mr McCormack said: 'We’ve had way too much speculation about the leadership role, and it’s time to put that to bed. 'The fact is, I’ve shook hands with Barnaby, we’re going to move on and we’re going to work hard together. He and I, and the rest of the Nationals team, for regional Australians. 'I don’t expect him to challenge again. I’ve been endorsed as the leader. I was endorsed last year. I was endorsed when he stood down. That’s three times.' While the results of National party votes are never revealed, reports suggest it was as close as 11-10, which would make a second challenge likely.   Mr Joyce had previously said that while he respected the current leader, he hoped to 'make things better'. 'You can't just sit back and say "I wish things were better",' he told Sky News. 'I have respect for Mr McCormack, I think he does a good job. 'The National Party has to be on the balls of its toes as we face some of the most challenging times. We have to speak with our own voice.'  It comes two years after Mr Joyce was forced to step down as the party's leader following revelation he had an affair with a former member of staff. The former deputy prime minister was left the role after his affair with the then 33-year-old Vikki Campion was exposed.  Mr Joyce previously said he didn't know if he had the numbers to be reinstated as leader, but said he was fighting for the 'near invisible Australians'. Speaking after Tuesday's vote, Mr McCormack criticised colleagues for not focusing on 'regional Australia'. 'I’d like to think the entire National Party team, and I know they will now unite,' he told reporters. 'We had way too much media speculation, way too much speculation in general, about the leadership role. 'It’s time to put all that to bed. 'The people of regional Australia come first, not us. We’re sent here to do the job and we will do that.' 'I think without a shadow of a doubt, we will be clearly understood as a team fighting for those who are not just quiet Australians, but the near invisible ones,' he said.  'It’s about making sure the national party turns a corner.' Amid the February 2018 scandal, Mr Joyce's of 24 years, Natalie, said she was 'deeply saddened by the news that my husband has been having an affair and is now having a child with a former staff member'. The former couple have four children. He now has two children, Sebastian and Thomas, with Ms Campion, who at 35 is 17 years his junior.  Labor leader Anthony Albanese had said the concept of Mr Joyce making a comeback was bizarre and showed 'how low they have sunk'.   Ahead of the vote, Mr Joyce clashed with Allison Langdon on the Today show during a heated exchange. Ms Langdon took Mr Joyce to task over his dumping as deputy PM and Nationals leader two years ago the affair scandal. 'You said you have spent the past two years reflecting on your faults. What are they and what have you learnt?' Langdon asked Mr Joyce on Tuesday morning. Mr Joyce responded he was going to make sure he had a 'strong team' and it would be about that team, 'not about Barnaby'. The presenter then interjected, saying: 'No, no, but you talked about yourself personally reflecting on your faults. I'm asking you what are those faults and what have you learnt?' The politician replied that he was trying to make himself a better man after spending the past two years reflecting on his mistakes. 'I'm enthusiastic and sometimes enthusiastic comes too enthusiastic and leaves people behind. You have to make sure first and foremost you are listening to other people and hearing what their concerns are,' he shot back. 'Look, I have paid a heavy price and I have had two years to reflect on that and I'm not going to waste those two years. I'm going take that reflection and try and make myself a better man, which we all do. 'We all make mistakes and I think Australia is the place where, if you make a mistake, they will back you in again as long as you show that you have basically taken your medicine.' Ms Langdon continued by asking: 'Barnaby, the problem is your colleagues now need make a decision. A huge call. What they have got right now is useless. But are you worth taking a huge risk for. What if you lose the plot again?' Mr Joyce responded by claiming he had a 'very good structure' around him.  2016 May - Vikki Campion assists Barnaby Joyce's election campaign as media adviser, having previously worked with NSW government ministers and News Corp August - Campion joins Joyce's staff. She splits with fiance John Bergin, three months before they were due to wed. Friendship develops between Joyce and Campion December - Chief of staff Di Hallam reportedly seeks Joyce's approval to have Campion transferred out of office. Hallam later quits to take up departmental role 2017 February - Campion is photographed in a Sydney bar with Joyce, as revealed by Daily Mail Australia April - Barnaby's wife Natalie reportedly confronts Campion in Tamworth. Campion goes to minister Matt Canavan office as adviser. Natalie and Barnaby seek to make marriage work May - At New South Wales Nationals conference in Broken Hill colleagues describe Joyce as 'a mess' June - Natalie and Barnaby show up together at Canberra press gallery midwinter ball July - Campion leaves her $191,000 job in Mr Canavan's office after he quits frontbench over citizenship. She temporarily goes back to Joyce's office August - Campion moves to Damian Drum's office in a social media adviser position specially created for her. He already has a media adviser. In this time she oversees just 50 posts to Facebook Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull is reportedly reassured by Joyce the relationship with Campion is over. Drum says he was told the same thing. Former Joyce chief of staff Di Hallam takes up a senior position with the Inland Rail project September - Natalie reportedly asks family friend, Catholic priest Father Frank Brennan, to counsel Joyce. Campion is seen managing Joyce media events at federal Nationals conference in Canberra October - Campion reportedly takes stress leave. Writ issued for New England by-election after Joyce quits over dual citizenship November - Natalie holidays in Bali with a daughter. Man in a pub in Inverell angers Joyce during election campaign by reportedly saying: 'Say hello to your mistress' December - Joyce wins by-election. Joyce tells parliament during same-sex marriage debate he is separated. Campion's redundancy package is approved. They move into an Armidale property provided rent-free by businessman Greg Maguire 2018 January - Joyce and Campion holiday in north Queensland and NSW north coast February - Joyce tells reporters Campion is now his partner. But denies she was his partner when she worked in Canavan's office March - Joyce casts doubt on the baby's paternity, calling it a 'grey area' and claiming journalists never asked him if Ms Campion's child was his  April 16 - Sebastian Joyce born May 8 - Baby boy seen for the first time May 26 - Details emerge of Barnaby Joyce's paid $150,000 interview May 30 - Seven Network reveals Vikki Campion pressured to have abortion June 5 - Joyce announces he intends to re-contest the seat of New England at the next election June 21 - Natalie Joyce speaks out in a tell-all unpaid interview  2019  January 20 - Ms Campion and Mr Joyce announce they are expecting a second son June - The couple welcome their Thomas Michael Timothy Joyce   
