{ By Zoe Zaczek For Daily Mail Australia and Australian Associated Press   Published:  21:04, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7962663/Barnaby-Joyce-clashes-Allison-Langdon-Today-ahead-Nationals-leadership-challenge.html }
Barnaby Joyce has clashed with Allison Langdon on the Today show during a heated exchange ahead of his challenge for the leadership of the National Party. Michael McCormack has fended off a challenge from Barnaby Joyce to remain leader of the Nationals, and deputy prime minister, following a party room ballot in Canberra on Tuesday.  Before the vote Ms Langdon took Mr Joyce to task over his dumping as deputy PM and Nationals leader two years ago amid an affair and baby scandal with his staffer Vikki Campion.  'You said you have spent the past two years reflecting on your faults. What are they and what have you learnt?' Langdon asked Mr Joyce on Tuesday morning. Mr Joyce responded he was going to make sure he had a 'strong team' and it would be about that team, 'not about Barnaby'.  Ms Langdon interjected: 'No, no, but you talked about yourself personally reflecting on your faults. I'm asking you what are those faults and what have you learnt?' Mr Joyce said he was trying to make himself a better man after spending the past two years reflecting on his mistakes.  'I'm enthusiastic and sometimes enthusiastic comes too enthusiastic and leaves people behind. You have to make sure first and foremost you are listening to other people and hearing what their concerns are,' he shot back. 'Look, I have paid a heavy price and I have had two years to reflect on that and I'm not going to waste those two years. I'm going take that reflection and try and make myself a better man, which we all do. 'We all make mistakes and I think Australia is the place where, if you make a mistake, they will back you in again as long as you show that you have basically taken your medicine.' Ms Langdon continued by asking: 'Barnaby, the problem is your colleagues now need make a decision. A huge call. What they have got right now is useless. But are you worth taking a huge risk for. What if you lose the plot again?' Mr Joyce responded by claiming he had a 'very good structure' around him.   But Michael McCormack fended off the challenge shortly after the interview went to air on Tuesday. 'It's a great honour and a privilege to continue to serve as the leader of the National Party,' Mr McCormack told reporters at Parliament House. David Littleproud has been elected as deputy leader to replace Bridget McKenzie, who resigned over the sports rorts scandal. The Nationals will not release the results of either ballot. 'I want to thank my colleagues for again placing their faith in me,' Mr McCormack said. He wants the Nationals to unite after the leadership challenge. 'We need to unite, we will unite,' Mr McCormack said. 'The people of regional Australia come first, not us. We're sent here to do the job and we will do that.' Mr McCormack said he shook hands with Mr Joyce after the ballot and is confident the pair will 'move on and work hard together'. Asked whether Mr Joyce would challenge again, he said: 'No, I don't expect him to. I've been endorsed as leader.' Matt Canavan resigned as resources minister to back Mr Joyce in the ballot. He will not return to the ministry. Mr Joyce was leader from February 2016 to February 2018 when he resigned over sexual harassment allegations and a furore over his affair with a staffer. 2016 May - Vikki Campion assists Barnaby Joyce's election campaign as media adviser, having previously worked with NSW government ministers and News Corp August - Campion joins Joyce's staff. She splits with fiance John Bergin, three months before they were due to wed. Friendship develops between Joyce and Campion December - Chief of staff Di Hallam reportedly seeks Joyce's approval to have Campion transferred out of office. Hallam later quits to take up departmental role 2017 February - Campion is photographed in a Sydney bar with Joyce, as revealed by Daily Mail Australia April - Barnaby's wife Natalie reportedly confronts Campion in Tamworth. Campion goes to minister Matt Canavan office as adviser. Natalie and Barnaby seek to make marriage work May - At New South Wales Nationals conference in Broken Hill colleagues describe Joyce as 'a mess' June - Natalie and Barnaby show up together at Canberra press gallery midwinter ball July - Campion leaves her $191,000 job in Mr Canavan's office after he quits frontbench over citizenship. She temporarily goes back to Joyce's office August - Campion moves to Damian Drum's office in a social media adviser position specially created for her. He already has a media adviser. In this time she oversees just 50 posts to Facebook Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull is reportedly reassured by Joyce the relationship with Campion is over. Drum says he was told the same thing. Former Joyce chief of staff Di Hallam takes up a senior position with the Inland Rail project September - Natalie reportedly asks family friend, Catholic priest Father Frank Brennan, to counsel Joyce. Campion is seen managing Joyce media events at federal Nationals conference in Canberra October - Campion reportedly takes stress leave. Writ issued for New England by-election after Joyce quits over dual citizenship November - Natalie holidays in Bali with a daughter. Man in a pub in Inverell angers Joyce during election campaign by reportedly saying: 'Say hello to your mistress' December - Joyce wins by-election. Joyce tells parliament during same-sex marriage debate he is separated. Campion's redundancy package is approved. They move into an Armidale property provided rent-free by businessman Greg Maguire 2018 January - Joyce and Campion holiday in north Queensland and NSW north coast February - Joyce tells reporters Campion is now his partner. But denies she was his partner when she worked in Canavan's office March - Joyce casts doubt on the baby's paternity, calling it a 'grey area' and claiming journalists never asked him if Ms Campion's child was his  April 16 - Sebastian Joyce born May 8 - Baby boy seen for the first time May 26 - Details emerge of Barnaby Joyce's paid $150,000 interview May 30 - Seven Network reveals Vikki Campion pressured to have abortion June 5 - Joyce announces he intends to re-contest the seat of New England at the next election June 21 - Natalie Joyce speaks out in a tell-all unpaid interview  2019  January 20 - Ms Campion and Mr Joyce announce they are expecting a second son June - The couple welcome their Thomas Michael Timothy Joyce         
