medicine
{ By Dailymail.com Reporter   Published:  20:12, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//health/article-7962453/Scientists-discover-chemical-ear-muff-drug-protect-hearing.html }
Hearing loss could be prevented by an injection dubbed 'chemical earmuffs' by scientists. Biologists say they have discovered a way to preventing the damage caused by loud noises while not muffling the sound. Funded by the US Department of Defence, the successful testing gives hope soldiers will one day be able to take a hearing-protection drug before being exposed to gunshots. The drug, being designed by researchers at the University of Iowa and Washington University in St Louis, would protect auditory receptors while allowing soldiers to still hear commands and one another.  They discovered a drug that blocks a receptor that prevents the breakdown of vital auditory synapses. A receptor are part of a molecules in ear nerve cells that bridge the pattern of sound and auditory information from sound sensors to the brain. The successful transmission of sound occurs through a junction called a synapse. The researchers identified some receptors lack a protein called GluA2, and it is these lacking receptors that are responsible for hearing loss. When biologists blocked the faulty receptors in mice, it prevented them from sustaining hearing damage. Professor Steven Green said: 'Now, we have a drug that doesn't prevent hearing, but does prevent hearing damage.' He added: 'It wasn't just putting earmuffs on - these earmuffs prevent the damage caused by loud sounds but don't muffle the sound.' 'Permanent hearing damage can be caused by noise levels that have been considered 'safe,' and people need to be careful about noise exposure because we can't yet repair synapses or regenerate hair cells. 'Our chemical earmuffs are, currently, just an indication of the direction research can go, not yet a proven, safe means of protection in humans.' Dr Mark Rutherford, an expert in head and neck surgery at Washington University, said for a long time, it was assumed this common type of hearing loss was caused by an influx of calcium. He added: 'For a long time, it has been assumed that cochlear synapses are not permeable to calcium, because all of the synapses have the GluA2 subunit. 'We have found that cochlear synapses have both GluA2-lacking and GluA2-containing glutamate receptors, implying that some of them are indeed highly permeable to calcium. 'With high-resolution microscopy of cochlear synapses we have provided a mechanistic explanation for the protection of these synapses from noise exposure by the calcium-permeable glutamate receptor blocker IEM-1460.' In this study, published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, IEM-1460 was introduced directly into the cochleas of mice through a surgical procedure.  Green hopes to find other drugs that could prevent hearing damage and that could be administered non-invasively.  If their new drug continues to perform well, it could be life-changing for many people, but especially for soldiers.  A study published in the Journal of General Internal Medicine estimated that between 16.4 and 26.6 percent of male veterans of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq who visited VAs in the US had serious hearing and/or tinnitus.  Some estimates suggest that as many as 52 percent of combat soldiers suffer moderate or worse hearing loss.  And this damage has major repercussions for veterans.  Tinnitus and hearing loss are the two leading reasons that former US soldiers file for disability with the Department of Veteran Affairs. 
