{ By Charlotte Dean For Mailonline   Published:  00:19, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7959421/Madonna-61-cheekily-pulls-tongues-leaves-concert.html }
Madonna appeared in high spirits as she cheekily stuck her tongue out while leaving her concert at the London Palladium on Sunday evening. The singer, 61, has performed a series of concerts at the popular venue, with fans taking to social media to praise the show.  Madonna was spotted exiting the theatre following her latest performance, days after taking to Instagram to announce that two more of her shows in the capital had been called off on doctors' orders. In the post Madonna revealed that she was already undergoing six hours of rehabilitation a day in a bid to recover from her serious injury. Madonna was bundled up in a cosy black jacket as she headed back to her hotel after another energetic performance.  The singer's London shows have gone down well with her legions of fans with many taking to social media to praise the star. One wrote: 'The reviews for Madame X at the Palladium are overwhelmingly positive. It's easy to knock Madonna and she doesn't always make it easy to be a fan sometimes... but she really is in a league of her own.' [sic] Another added: 'Madonna was a phenomenon tonight at the London Palladium. The most engaged and the happiest I've seen her.'   On Friday, the star took to Instagram to apologise to fans as she announced that she has been forced to abandon two more performances on doctors' orders. Madonna also revealed that she has to do six hours of rehab every day due to her serious injury and claimed that it's a 'miracle' she has been able to get this far on the tour. Alongside a photograph of herself with her head in her hand, Madonna penned a long, heart-felt caption. She wrote: 'A note to all my my fans: As you all know I have multiple injuries and have had to cancel shows to give myself time to recover. 'So as not to surprise you I want to let you know ahead of time that I will be cancelling 2 shows - on Feb 4 and Feb 11th at the Palladium in London. 'Because doing 3 shows in a row is too much on my body and in fact my doctors insist I take a day off after every show but I believe can manage if I do 2 shows then I rest!' Madonna continued, explaining that she has managed to continue on with the tour thanks to intensive rehab, by changing her footwear and by modifying her performance. She wrote: 'It's a miracle I have gotten this far but a-lot has to do with the fact that I do 6 hours of re-hab every day 3 hours before show and 3 after with multiple therapies. 'I have also switched to flat shoes and modified difficult parts of the show. This has helped enormously but I still need to be careful and of course rest is the best medicine.' Finishing off her sincere message, the superstar insisted that she is determined to complete her tour and apologised for being forced to cancel two more dates. She wrote: 'I never want to cancel any show and I'm determined that I will make it to the end if I pace myself. God Willing. 'Refunds will be automatically issued to the credit card on which tickets were ordered. 'I appreciate your understanding and sincerely apologize for any inconvenience. Thank you!! Madame.' The two more cancelled dates come after the singer announced on Saturday she was 'deeply sorry' but that she needed to 'put her body and her health first', cancelling Monday's scheduled gig. 'Under doctors guidance I have been told to rest for a few days,' she wrote on Instagram. 'As you all know, I have injuries that have plagued me since the beginning of the tour but I must always listen to my body. 'Please know that it hurts me more than you can imagine to have to cancel any shows.' She also cancelled dates in New York, Miami Beach, Los Angeles, Boston, and Lisbon.  
