medicine
{ By Peter Hitchens for The Mail on Sunday   Published:  01:59, 2 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//debate/article-7957015/PETER-HITCHENS-way-make-police-safer-NOT-50-000-volt-Tasers.html }
My esteemed colleague Richard Littlejohn (we have known each other since we were industrial reporters in the late 1970s) wrote powerfully last Tuesday in the Daily Mail about the simultaneously shocking and rather inspiring case of PC Stuart Outten.  This brave officer, thanks to great courage and resolve – and the use of his Taser – recently survived a terrible machete attack by Muhammad Rodwan. There is no doubt that PC Outten’s Taser saved him from much worse injuries, and possibly from death.  Richard, who has in the past mocked abuse of Tasers by police, has now changed his mind and concluded from this that all officers should be armed with these devices. I’ll come to that. Nobody wants to see police officers wounded or killed if any way can be found to avoid it.  But, like many other reports of the episode, Richard’s article missed something very important that also needs to be addressed. Much helped by the unceasing research work of Ross Grainger, author of the book Attacker Smoked Cannabis, I have for some years been noting the astonishing number of cases where extreme violence is linked with marijuana use. Generally, the fact is buried.  Because of the idiotic, fashionable view of marijuana as soft and harmless or even as some kind of medicine, far too many people don’t or won’t spot it.  But there is a pattern. And here it is again.  Almost every time I look, I find it. And where I don’t find it, I strongly suspect it is because the police have not bothered to investigate or record it. Rodwan, who is 56, admitted to smoking marijuana on the day of the attack. He has been doing so for many years.  Among his other convictions (including rape and a previous machete attack) was a 2008 admission of marijuana possession.  This offence technically carries a prison sentence of five years. But even 12 years ago, he received only a feeble caution. Nowadays he would be wholly let off by most UK police forces. If, at an early point in his long and sordid career of crime, Rodwan (and others like him) had been given severe and swift deterrent punishment for his drug use, this hideous case would never have happened. Rodwan’s violence was unhinged in its fury and ferocity. Police are trained to handle all kinds of violence, but increasingly this training is not enough. Those they tangle with are, more and more often, not normal. They are, quite simply, mad. And the evidence grows by the day that it is marijuana that has made them so.  In this case, thank heaven, the Taser worked. And I reluctantly agree with Richard.  With these levels of insane, unpredictable violence, it is probably a good idea to make Tasers generally available to police officers, even though this will lead to some abuse and accidental deaths.  But, in return for this freedom, as an exact quid pro quo, the police should be compelled by Ministers to enforce the laws against marijuana possession that chief constables have arrogantly decided to ignore. If we do this, the plague of misery caused by this drug and its cynical advocates will come to an end. And then the police won’t need 50,000-volt weapons to do their job. When a man tried to steal one of the few copies of Magna Carta from Salisbury Cathedral, it was lucky that American tourists were on hand to help catch him.  Americans still revere our great charter. Most British people these days have never even heard of it, and would respond to cries of ‘He’s trying to steal Magna Carta!’ by asking: ‘Trying to steal what?’  Two powerful TV dramas have tried very hard and quite successfully to recreate the recent past – The Trial Of Christine Keeler, about the Profumo Affair of 1963, and White House Farm, about the terrible 1986 Bamber murders. Oddly, as I have watched these series, I have found that the 1960s seem to be less remote than the 1980s. In that brief, thrilling, disturbing period between about 1963 and the great oil shock of 1973, the modern world as we now know it was born. But then there was a kind of pulling back from the brink. The dark, rather tatty Heath era of strikes, blackouts and wild inflation reimposed a sort of old-fashioned, austere bleakness on the country. Even the music, which I am sure had driven us all round the bend, became less interesting. The 1980s, before the collapse of Communism and the birth of the internet that revolutionised the world, now look extraordinarily staid and slow-moving, almost like an Agatha Christie novel. Whereas Christine Keeler looks like a woman of today. Comprehensive schooling was never about education. It was a fanatical plan to turn our schools into engines of equality. And proper centres of excellence, such as Oxford and Cambridge universities, cannot co-exist with that. Either they continue to select on merit, which means taking as many students as possible from private or grammar schools, or they submit – as they are now doing – to the equality fanatics. Of course, the revival of grammar schools in poor areas would have avoided this, but nobody will do that. So get ready for Oxbridge Comprehensive, tumbling down the world league tables. Whatever happened to Middle East peace? Some sort of deal between Israel and the local Arabs was, for decades, the vital goal of diplomacy.  US presidents were obliged to try to achieve it. Both sides were repeatedly dragged to summits where they were forced to shake hands and smile at each other while clenching their teeth. I was once present at one of these horrible staged occasions, on the White House lawn in September 1993, when a smiling Bill Clinton compelled Israel’s Yitzhak Rabin and that awful old antisemite Yasser Arafat (who once said ‘I have no use for Jews. They are and remain Jews’) to pretend to be friends. That particular episode ended with the murder of Yitzhak Rabin by an ultra-Zionist fanatic and with a renewed wave of organised Arab violence on the West Bank of the Jordan. In fact, this has been the outcome of almost all such efforts: more division, more violence, more barriers, more checkpoints. An Arab/Israeli colleague once said to me, as we negotiated one of the complex barricades that divide up the region: ‘How I long for the good old days before we had peace.’ And when I was visiting an Israeli town near the embattled Gaza Strip, I was reminded by one of the residents that it was not all that long since Israelis had actually gone to Gaza for the nightlife. My own guess is that, left alone, the ordinary human beings of the region will work out informal, small-scale ways to live together, just as long as the big powers don’t try to push for a final treaty. They have much to gain from doing so. So I was pleased to see that President Trump’s fanciful ‘peace plan’ was treated as a non-event. Hardly anyone could even be bothered to get properly angry. This is because the major Muslim powers of the region have lost interest. Once, they tried to divert their own unhappy, discontented peoples into officially encouraged hatred of Israel. They cynically used the Arabs of the West Bank and Gaza to continue this process. But Saudi Arabia’s hate-filled obsession with Iran has eclipsed that. Riyadh’s Sunni Muslim fanatics loathe Tehran’s Shia Muslims so much that they will even ally with Israel against them. And so an issue which once seemed capable of blowing up the world has gone cold and quiet. The trouble is that the Saudi-Iran conflict – in which Britain is foolishly taking sides – could be even worse and harder to solve. If you want to comment on Peter Hitchens click here  
