medicine
{ By Liz Perkins For Mailonline   Published:  18:25, 1 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7955937/Muscled-Chinese-cosplayer-puts-fantasy-costumes-aside-help-fight-against-coronavirus.html }
Real-life superhero Yuan Herong has left her world of cosplay aside to help patients  diagnosed with coronavirus. Muscled-up Yuan, who documents her workouts and costumes to her 338,000 followers on Instagram, is a doctor by day and determined to help in the midst of the epidemic. The Shandong Province-based physician has revealed the other side of her world in China.  In an Instagram post, Yuan said: 'I'm a doctor. Must [be] on the front line. Do my best to help the epidemic.'  And in a second post she said: '171 cases of new pneumonia were cured and 15238 suspected cases were found.  'The healers are all treated through traditional Chinese medicine and other symptomatic treatment. We will try our best to do a good job in prevention and treatment.'  Between shifts, Yuan has been posting a series of workout videos, but in many cases has been unable to get to the gym to the outbreak of the virus.     Two people have tested positive for coronavirus in the UK - one is a student at the University of York, it has been revealed. Calls have been made for university bosses to open a call centre for panicked students. The pair, two members of the same family, are being treated at a specialist unit in Newcastle. Most of China – where the virus is thought to have originated – remains under quarantine and other nations have blocked further evacuations of their own people amid growing fears the virus will rapidly spread further. Medics, including Yuan, are working around the clock in the bid to stop the spread of the disease. Her fans were full of well wishes, with one saying: 'Bless you and your fellow doctors. Good luck and best wishes in helping those who are sick,' and another adding: 'Thank you for all of your hard work'.  She simply replied to one well-wisher saying: 'We will try our best, please have confidence in China.'  
