{ By James Wood For Mailonline   Published:  09:43, 1 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7955153/Quarantined-Brits-allowed-OUTSIDE-anti-coronavirus.html }
A British evacuee from coronavirus-hit Wuhan today shared a glimpse of what life is like inside quarantine as he and 82 others spend their first day inside a nurses' accommodation block in the Wirral.  Matt Raw, who was part of a group flown in from China on Friday over the coronavirus outbreak, revealed that he and others staying in the building can 'go outside for fresh air' and are treated to 'anything we ask for'.     The Briton, who is staying in the block alongside his wife, will be holed up in the building at the side of Arrowe Park Hospital for 14 days - after which they will be allowed to leave provided they are clear of the virus.  Speaking on BBC Breakfast this morning, Mr Raw said: 'Every single thing that we have asked for we get. There is an army of people here who are looking after us extremely well. They are running out and buying everything.  'They've bought us televisions, radios. You name it. Anything we've asked for, they've bought for us.' Also staying in Mr Raw's four-bedroom apartment is his mother, who has her own room, and a mother and her daughter, who also have another room - leaving one empty room in the flat. 'There is a another room, I think it is a quarantine bedroom, in the event that somebody does become sick,' Mr Raw added. 'We are allowed to have contact with anybody within the facility as long as we're wearing face masks. We can go outside and get some fresh air.  'We can open the windows and get some fresh air. We're being looked after to the absolute maximum that anyone can possibly expect.'  Mr Raw's tour comes as the number of confirmed cases in China rose to 11,791, surpassing the number in the 2002-03 outbreak of Sars - and the death toll rose to 259. And this morning, it was revealed that one of the first two people to test positive for coronavirus in the UK is a student at the University of York - as health bosses try to get in touch anyone who has come in close contact with them or their infected relative. Other shocking developments in the outbreak today include:  The virus emerged in early December and has been traced to a market in Hubei's capital Wuhan that sold wild animals. It spread globally on the wings of a Lunar New Year holiday rush that sees hundreds of millions of Chinese people travel domestically and overseas. Yesterday, Britain confirmed its first two cases - on the same day dozens of British evacuees from Wuhan arrived in the country - at a York hotel where both members of the same family fell ill.    Dramatic footage from the budget Staycity showed medics in hazmat suits marching through an eerily deserted reception area, despite the £49-a-night tourist spot remaining open to guests.  Officials are trying to trace 438 other air passengers who've recently arrived from Wuhan as medics in hazmat suits were seen entering the York hotel where the two people with confirmed cases were staying.  One of the two coronovirus patients has now been revealed to be a student at the University of York. In a statement today, a spokesman for the university said the risk of the infection being passed on to other people on campus is low. The virus's rapid spread in two months prompted the World Health Organization on Thursday to declare it a global emergency. Most cases reported so far have been people who visited China or their family members.  On Friday, the United States declared a public health emergency and President Donald Trump signed an order barring entry to foreign nationals, other than immediate family of American citizens and permanent residents, who visited China within the last 14 days, which scientists say is the virus's longest incubation period.  China has also flown two planeloads of its citizens back home to Hubei, the locked-down province at the centre of the deadly coronavirus outbreak where they were greeted by authorities in full-body protective suits. A Xiamen Airlines charter flight from Bangkok touched down late Friday in the provincial capital Wuhan, where the infection is believed to have originated in a market that sold wild animals. And today Spanish authorities confirmed that a German tourist was taken ill with the infection while on holiday in the Canary Islands.  Britain and France are among 20 countries outside of mainland China to confirm cases of the virus as tech giant Apple has confirmed closure of all major stores and offices in the country.      British evacuee Mr Raw is just one of a number to have shared their experiences inside the quarantine zone, after others last night posted images of themselves on social media wearing face masks.  Accommodation for the quarantined Britons - who are separate to the two confirmed coronavirus cases in Britain - was yesterday kitted out with bedding, games consoles and Barbies ahead of their 14 days in quarantine.  The evacuees were driven to the NHS staff accommodation blocks at the side of Arrowe Park Hospital on the Wirral just after 7.15pm after travelling 180 miles from RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire.  Ben Kavanagh was among those taking to social media last night to share their experiences of arriving at the hospital.  He posted a picture of himself wearing a mask to Instagram with the caption: 'We are all now safe in quarantine. Everyone has been fantastic, the airline, the stewards/stewardesses, the bus drivers, the NHS. Been travelling for 40 hours. I am mostly grease at this point. I will try to reply to everyone's kind messages tomorrow.'      The coronavirus, which has infected nearly 12,000 people and killed 259 - all in China - is known to spread easily through coughs and sneezes and close contact, and people may be contagious even if they feel well.  The five coaches - carrying the 83 Britons who were on board the Wamos Air Boeing 747 on Friday - were escorted into the Merseyside hospital by five police officers on motorbikes.  Three ambulances were also in the convoy as well as two police cars. They were taken by drivers without protective masks, raising fears for their safety. Coach drivers who took those evacuated from Wuhan to their quarantine location on the Wirral will also spend 14 days in isolation themselves.   They were asked to drive those brought back from China without any masks or specialist clothing – and will now take a period of paid leave away from others. Reading coach firm, Horseman, has sent at least seven buses to RAF Brize Norton to pick up the evacuated passengers from China. The coaches are being driven by drivers employed by the company, all of whom agreed to do the job.  The company refused to say whether the drivers would be quarantined afterwards, but said the buses would be 'deep cleaned'.  The Horseman Coaches spokesman told the PA news agency: 'The Department for Health have procedures in place for the vehicles to be deep cleaned. 'That is part of the process of this undertaking, which will happen as soon as the vehicles are clear. I can give everybody assurance that everything will be cleansed sufficiently.'  The spokesman declined to comment on whether or not the drivers – staff members of Horseman Coaches – would also have to be put in isolation. 'I can't comment any further on that I'm afraid,' he said. Horseman Coaches is a private coach hire company operating throughout Reading, Wokingham, Bracknell, Maidenhead, Slough, West Berkshire and across the south east carrying more than 9,000 passengers each day, according to the company's website. A spokesman for Horseman Coaches said their staff had been reassured by Government officials that they did not need to wear masks for the 180-mile journey because passengers had been quarantined for eight days in China and only allowed on the flight because they were clear of any symptoms. However, the Department of Health rubbished the eight-day claim and said no protective gear was required because the risk to drivers was 'very low.' Their vehicles will also be deep-cleaned before being allowed back into service in a fortnight.  The plane will later flew on to Spain carrying the remaining 27 passengers - all non-UK nationals.  The British passengers on the evacuation flight - who have mainly been in Wuhan and the surrounding Hubei province - had to sign a contract agreeing to isolation before they could board the flight, and underwent temperature checks.    The Mail understands that the pilot and crew on the flight from Wuhan province were also not instructed to wear masks and it was unclear whether they had also been told to self-quarantine. The Ministry of Defence insisted that all Government employees and military personnel who had come into close contact with passengers would be put into supported isolation. The Department of Health also explained that each of the seven coaches had one medic – dressed in specialist protective gear – onboard in the unlikely event any passengers developed symptoms during the journey. Passengers on the flight revealed crew had tried to keep them at least 6ft from each other to avoid cross-contamination. But some evacuees were seen shaking hands with staff on the tarmac at Brize Norton.  They are being isolated for two weeks because this is the maximum time it is thought to take for symptoms to emerge if a person has been infected. There has been speculation over whether the virus can be transmitted by people showing no symptoms. China has asked couples to delay their nuptials from a popular wedding date and families to scale down funeral services to help slow the spread of the country's viral outbreak. February 2 this year is being considered a lucky date for wedding ceremonies because the sequence of numbers '02022020' reads the same backwards as forwards. Beijing, Shanghai and other cities had earlier decided to offer wedding registry services on the date, despite it falling on a Sunday when offices are usually closed. The ministry said it would temporarily halt marriage counselling services and asked the public not to hold wedding banquets. It also said funerals should be held in a 'simple and expeditious manner to avoid gatherings of people' and the bodies of any victims of the coronavirus should be cremated as soon as possible. Staff handling funerals should wear protective gear and carry out temperature checks to avoid risking infection, the statement added. China has introduced drastic travel restrictions and pushed back the end of the Lunar New Year break - when hundreds of millions of people travel across the country to visit family - in a bid to contain the virus. Schools and universities nationwide have been told not to resume classes, officials have urged factories to delay their return to work and the public has been asked to avoid large crowds. Patrick Graham, who was onboard the flight that arrived yesterday, shared footage of the plane touching down and joked with his social media followers: 'The infected are coming.' He also shared a screenshot of a report detailing confirmation of the UK's first two cases of the virus and wrote: 'Please don't blame us … we have only just landed.' Passengers on the flight were served chicken tikka masala. Matt Raw made the flight at short notice, after initially being told that his Chinese wife, Ying, who has a visitor visa for the UK, would not be allowed to travel. When the Chinese authorities eased the restrictions, Mr Raw was able to travel with his wife and 75-year-old mother, Hazel. He said the trip was like any normal plane journey. He said: 'It's maybe not the best quality aeroplane food that I've had, but certainly this is probably one of the best meals of my life – we're on our way home.' Speaking to ITV before take-off, he said: 'It is proving to be a really, really taxing job to get all the passengers on board. They are struggling with… we don't have names, we have numbers. So they are trying to correspond the names to the numbers, the ticket numbers, to get everybody on board and in the right seat.' Other passengers described the chaos of getting to the airport at short notice and being forced to leave loved ones behind. Speaking to the BBC after the flight touched down, newlywed Ben Williams, whose Chinese wife had stayed behind, said: 'We are just happy to get on a coach to our final destination for an extended vacation.' Referring to the 14-day quarantine, he added: 'I think I'll be all right. As long as I can get some exercise. It's good to be back, but I also miss China as well. Sadly we came to the decision for her [my new wife] to stay behind because of the short notice they gave us for the flight. They did tell us very much last-minute that she would be allowed on the flight but by the time they told us, we had nothing arranged. 'Hopefully, it's less than a few months [before I see her again] but we've been in a long distance relationship from the UK to Brazil for the last two years so a couple of months is nothing.' He continued: 'Everyone is trying their best to keep clean and ensure the wellbeing of everyone around them. I was in self-isolation in China. With a Chinese family, enjoying Chinese New Year indoors, watching TV. Enjoying sunshine on the roof of the apartment.  Financial Times journalist Tom Hancock was also on the flight. Writing in this morning's newspaper he spoke of how ages ranged from a three-month-old baby to an 81-year-old woman on the flight. He also revealed that an unaccompanied three-year-old girl who had been staying with her grandparents in Wuhan while her parents were in the UK was on the flight. She was cared for on the flight by staff from the foreign office.  Among those on the flight was Emma Wang, a Chinese natinal travelling with her British partner and their baby. Her partner, Michael Martin, said ahead of getting on the fight: 'I thought I'd feel excited by I'm more just tired'.  While Dani Carmona, a Spaniard who had been working as a football coach and had to leave his girlfriend behind, said: 'It was a difficult decision. I will come back to Wuhan as soon as I can'.  Yesterday, trolleys containing PlayStations, Xboxes and children's toys such as Barbie doll sets were seen being wheeled into their quarantined area. Some of the toys were aged one to three years, suggesting families with small children may be kept in isolation.  It is understood that those quarantined will be given fully-furnished rooms, food and laundry facilities, while kitchens are available if people wish to self cater. Any families will be able to stay together and there will be no charge for the accommodation. A team of medical staff, who will wear protective suits, will closely monitor their condition. Anyone with suspicious symptoms will be taken to the nearby Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen Hospital, which has a high-level infectious diseases unit. Some people living on the Wirral took to social media to express their concerns at the move, calling it a 'bizarre' move and an 'absolute joke'.  It comes after doctors and nurses were given two days' notice to move from the accommodation block to make way for the quarantined Britons. The staff were seen packing bedding, clothes and pots and pans in cars and vans. Hospital workers said yesterday they were 'scared' over the Britons from China being quarantined at the hospital. One nurse told MailOnline: 'This was just dumped on us. 'We haven't been fitted for masks - I'm not even sure how many we have. Everyone's a bit scared especially as there's now been cases in Britain. 'They are asking us to put ourselves in harm's way. The hospital couldn't cope if there was an outbreak. We are creaking as it is.'  David, 54, a plumber who was helping prepare the building and works for North West Engineering, said: 'We have been sent up here to prepare some rooms. 'We are preparing so to make sure that the rooms have hot and cold water. We are doing the plumbing. I didn't know I had to be here until today. It's all a bit lastminute.com.'  One doctor told Mailonline: 'Most people are angry that they're being brought here. Why do we have to deal with it out of all the hospitals in the country? 'We have a big maternity unit and care for a lot of sick children. We struggle at the best of times. One hospital porter has told me he's going to refuse to take things over to the blocks.'  Tom Holmes, 56, who was visiting his sick sister, said: 'I was a bit nervous coming here. My sister just wants to get out of here before all the coronavirus people get here. I wouldn't want her still here if any of them get sick.' Mother-of-two Melissa Bridge, 23, said: 'I live nearby the hospital. I'm really worried the virus could be brought here. I'm scared for my children. 'Why have they brought them here? It's not exactly in an isolated spot. They just want to dump them on Merseyside.' Irene Morley, 72, retired, visiting the hospital for a checkup, said: 'I don't think they should have it in Arrowe Park because of the maternity unit in the hospital. 'They should have gone to another hospital like the Victoria Central Health Centre in Wallasey. They've got a hospital there which is a lot more remote, people don't go down there. 'It's completely wrong they've been brought here. There's a sliding door in the physiotherapy ward which opens onto the block. There's people going in and out without washing their hands and staff smoking outside. 'It's appalling. They could've put them somewhere else. Other countries are putting the quarantined people miles away. We only found out yesterday. They kept it all undercover so people don't kick off. 'You can't people inside for two weeks. Where are they going to go when they go outside? I think it's wrong. They are keeping us in the dark. They are putting us at risk.' Jane Godman, from the Wirral, wrote on Twitter, 'Decision to have a coronavirus quarantine centre at Arrowe Park Hospital on the Wirral is bizarre. 'One of the busiest hospitals in the North West, with a maternity unit, in a built up area, 170 miles from where the Wuhan plane lands. Who decided this and why?' Phillip Cunnington, from nearby Newton-le-Willows in Lancashire, tweeted his reaction to a Sky News tweet saying the evacuees were being taken to the Wirral. He said: 'Oh great, Wirral's in the news, you don't often see that, so often overshadowed by Liverpool, it'd be great to see it get some positive pub... Oh.' Amanda Jelley, from West Kirby on the Wirral, added: 'Why are the 150 people being isolated at Arrowe Park Hospital, 187 miles from Brize Norton.  'Arrowe Park Hospital is on a small peninsular so is that the choice to try and contain the virus? Being from the Wirral I am furious at this decision.' The British passengers - who have mainly been in Wuhan and the surrounding Hubei province - will be housed in an NHS staff accommodation block. The road outside the accommodation blocks that will house the coronavirus victims once they have returned was clogged with removal vans this morning. One van was unloading boxes of Hitachi products onto the street, while one worker said he was moving duvets out of the block to a site in St Helens. A man leaving with a camping rucksack and two holdalls said he had been living in the blocks while working at the hospital until yesterday when he was told to leave. He said: 'I'm evacuating the block. I got told to move yesterday. I've been told not to speak.' Dennis Nelson, 76, who was just leaving the walk-in centre with his son said he wasn't worried about the quarantined people staying at the hospital. 'They have got great facilities here and in Liverpool which is only a 30 minute drive. There's the centre for tropical medicine if anything goes wrong.' Barbara Patterson, 72, who is retired and was visiting the hospital for chemotherapy, said: 'I've been thinking how awful it must be to be cooped up in here.'  Terry Haynes, 34, a chef who was visiting his grandmother, added: 'As long as they don't come in the hospital it's OK. They go to the Royal in Liverpool if they're ill. I'm a bit worried. 'It's strange why they're coming here. I guess it's because it's a peninsula. They can close the Wirral off. They can close the tunnel and the bridge if everyone gets infected.' And Flo Garbett, 86, added: 'Well they've got to go somewhere but I don't know why here. They will get the right treatment I guess. At least they're near the Tropical Medicine School. It's one of the best in the country.' A 21-year-old student from Keele University, who was at Arrowe Park for an appointment with a consultant, said: 'I'm not really concerned about it. 'It's just what the hospital does which is the issue. It's how it tries to control infections like the Norovirus.  'Every time it has a Norovirus outbreak, it does not seem to contain it very well. It should be fine though because the blocks are quite separate.' What is this virus? The SARS-CoV-2 virus has been identified as a new type of coronavirus. Coronaviruses are a large family of pathogens, most of which cause mild lung infections such as the common cold. But coronaviruses can also be deadly. SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, is caused by a coronavirus and killed hundreds of people in China and Hong Kong in the early 2000s. Can the Wuhan coronavirus kill? Yes – more than 2,700 people have so far died after testing positive for the virus. What are the symptoms? The infection which the virus causes has been named COVID-19. Some people who catch it may not have any symptoms at all, or only very mild ones like a sore throat or a headache. Others may suffer from a fever, cough or trouble breathing.  And a small proportion of patients will go on to develop severe infection which can damage the lungs or cause pneumonia, a life-threatening condition which causes swelling and fluid build-up in the lungs. How is it detected? The virus's genetic sequencing was released by scientists in China and countries around the world have used this to create lab tests, which must be carried out to confirm an infection. Delays to these tests, to test results and to people getting to hospitals in China, mean the number of confirmed cases is expected to be just a fraction of the true scale of the outbreak.   How did it start and spread? The first cases identified were among people connected to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan. Cases have since been identified around China and are known to have spread from person to person. What are countries doing to prevent the spread? Countries all over the world have banned foreign travellers from crossing their borders if they have been to China within the past two weeks. Many airlines have cancelled or drastically reduced flights to and from mainland China. Is it similar to anything we've ever seen before? Experts have compared it to the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). The epidemic started in southern China and killed more than 700 people in mainland China, Hong Kong and elsewhere. SCROLL DOWN OR CLICK HERE TO SEE MAILONLINE'S FULL Q&A ON THE CORONAVIRUS  Maureen Fenton, 49, a housewife who was visited her daughter in labour, said: 'I wasn't worried but it seems to be spreading which is concerning.' And David Murray, 52, who is unemployed, said: 'I heard about it on the news. I was worried about getting it. I was just thinking - will I get it?' Asked whether she was informed of the decision, Labour MP for Wirral South Alison McGovern tweeted: 'No. No one has informed me. Awaiting a call. 'Will be asking Department for Health to make sure that those being brought to Wirral be made as comfortable as possible. 'Know my constituents will feel for them and will back our brilliant NHS staff to do everything necessary to help.' Another person asked: 'What did The Wirral do to deserve this?' A further tweet said: 'This is very worrying and will cause panic in the Liverpool area.' A Wirral Council spokesman said: 'A flight has been arranged to bring British nationals back to the UK and will land back in the UK later today. 'Those on board will be housed, temporarily, in the accommodation block at Arrowe Park Hospital. This is a separate building and is not a hospital ward. 'All services in the hospital are running as usual including emergency services, outpatients and planned surgery. Staff working in the hospital will not be in contact with these UK citizens. As the local council, we are supporting the Department of Health and NHS in any way we can. 'We understand this is a stressful time for the people on the flight, but also their families. After a very long journey, we welcome them to our borough and trust they will be comfortable during their time here.'  It comes as the first cases of the coronavirus have been diagnosed in the UK, with two people - believed to be Chinese nationals - from the same family being treated by Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust in its specialist Airborne High Consequences Infectious Disease Centre (HCID).  The pair, believed to be Chinese nationals, had been staying at  the £49-a-night Staycity hotel in York which has remained open since a man fell ill there on Wednesday night and rooms can still be booked for tonight. The Department of Health has repeatedly refused to give any details about the two coronavirus victims, citing 'patient confidentially', and have also knocked back questions about where and when they entered Britain and where they have been before arriving in York. York's rich history makes it a hugely popular stop for visitors on tours of Britain and Europe.   A Public Health England spokesperson said: 'The design of the accommodation means that there is minimal interaction between guests and, following a risk assessment by our experts, closing the accommodation was not necessary.  'Appropriate infection and prevention control measures are being implemented.'   The hotel remained open on Friday because officials reportedly refused to tell the owners their guests were the coronavirus patients. Paul Hunter, a professor of medicine at the University of East Anglia, has blasted the Government's 'worrying' response after it emerged the hotel has remained open since a Chinese man fell ill there on Wednesday night and rooms can still be booked for tonight. The Department of Health has repeatedly refused to give any details about the two coronavirus victims, citing 'patient confidentially', and have also knocked back questions about where and when they entered Britain and where they have been before arriving in York. Fris Ilfifi, 30, who recently arrived from Saudi Arabia to study for a chemistry PhD at York University, was among those staying at the hotel when medics rushed in. She told The Sun: 'I saw the man. He was sitting at reception. Two medics went to his room and tested him. 'When I checked at reception, they told me it was normal flu. Guests were not in masks. Everything was carrying on as normal. 'I was scared then, and now. I'm trying to find somewhere else to stay.' York's rich history makes it a hugely popular stop for visitors on tours of Britain and Europe. 
