medicine
{ By Rachel Sharp For Dailymail.com   Published:  23:55, 31 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7954077/Man-charged-animal-cruelty-performing-illegal-c-sections-dogs-makeshift-surgery.html }
A California man has been charged with animal cruelty for allegedly performing illegal c-sections on dogs in a makeshift surgery in the kitchen of his home.  Pedro Maldonado Victorio was arrested after a woman raised the alarm after spotting puppies running free near to his Lathorp apartment, before seeing the suspect and another man leaving the property wearing what appeared to be bloody rubber gloves.  A search uncovered what officers described as an 'assembly line operation' and 'heinous' treatment of the animals.   Police rescued a dozen dogs from inside the home, where Victorio had converted the kitchen into a home operating theater.  As well as performing botched surgeries, Victorio was breeding and selling dogs and keeping up to seven dogs in kennels designed for one, police said.   Lathrop Police Services Chief Ryan Biedermann said in a press conference Friday that the way Victorio was operating on the dogs was 'heinous' and had left the animals with injuries that 'never truly healed'.  'The actual vets we have spoken to say these operations were done so poorly that the incision for the C-sections that were completed on these dogs were never truly healed,' said Biedermann. 'It was like an assembly line operation; these dogs would give birth, c-sections would be completed ... and they were then artificially put in heat through the medication that we found, then inseminated again. 'They are basically circumventing the normal biological process of these dogs to probably maximize the money they are making.'  The puppies' rescue mission began when a woman noticed a few English bulldogs outside the 2000 block of East Louise Avenue in Lathrop on Saturday, said Deputy Andrea Lopez of the San Joaquin County Sheriff's Office. After locating the home the puppies escaped from, the woman then saw two men leaving the property wearing what appeared to be bloody rubber gloves, Lopez said. Authorities arrived to find the gruesome makeshift veterinary practice.  A dozen dogs were rescued and narcotics 'used for anesthetic and pain purposes' were seized, officials confirmed.   Victorio, who was already under investigation by Manteca Animal Services for performing animal surgeries without a license, was arrested on suspicion of animal cruelty, practicing veterinary medicine without a license, and transporting a controlled substance. Police searched other properties in Lathrop and Manteca connected to the suspect and found more evidence of illegal surgeries, $13,000 in cash, and 18 more dogs – a mix of English and French bulldogs.  Remains of three deceased dogs were also found at the properties, including one that had been discarded in a trash can along with pieces of other dogs' ears.  Half of the surviving animals required medical treatment when they were found, with some of the female dogs suffering severe nerve damage and intestinal issues because of botched c-sections, Biedermann said. Biedermann added that the 30 dogs rescued belonged to Victorio but that he also performed surgeries on other people's dogs.  'When it comes to animals or any kind of life it's just … it's really cruel,' Chris Velasquez, who works next to the illegal practice, told Fox 40.  'That's some evil stuff going on. You just never know where you're going to be.'  Victorio had told police he was a veterinarian in Mexico, but he did not hold a license to operate on dogs in California.  Victorio was arraigned Thursday at San Joaquin Superior Court and pleaded not guilty to one felony count of animal cruelty, one misdemeanor count of practicing veterinary medicine without a license and two felony counts of transportation of controlled substances. He was released on bail and ordered to wear a GPS ankle bracelet.  No other arrests have been made but Victorio's wife and a caretaker of the Lathrop home remain suspects, police said.  The other man seen leaving Victorio's property has not been identified.   Police are asking anyone who bought a dog from Victorio or whose pet was operated on by the suspect to contact the Sheriff's Office at 209-468-4400 or Manteca Police Department at 209-456-8100. 
