medicine
{ By Rachel Sharp For Dailymail.com and Reuters   Published:  22:42, 31 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7954179/U-S-Coast-Guard-officer-accused-plotting-attacks-gets-13-years-prison.html }
A white supremacist Coast Guard officer who was accused of plotting a terrorist massacre of Nancy Pelosi, other Democrats, and journalists was sentenced to 13 years in prison on gun and drugs charges Friday.  Christopher Paul Hasson, 50, was arrested last year when authorities found a trove of illegal firearms and racist, white supremacist material in his home in Silver Spring, Maryland.  More than a dozen guns and hundreds of bullets were discovered inside his home, prosecutors said Friday. They also found a 'hit list' Hasson had made of people to shoot including U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi and MSNBC host Joe Scarborough.  Draft documents and emails found on Hasson's computer repeatedly used racist language and advocated a violent race war.   'Much blood will have to be spilled to get whitey off the couch,' one typo-filled draft document said, which prosecutors described as a signed manifesto Hasson wrote in June 2017.  'Have to take serious look at appropriate individual targets, to bring greatest impact. Professors, DR's, Politian's, Judges, leftists in general.'   Hasson had spent $12,000 on illegally obtained firearms and unregistered gun paraphernalia over a three-year period.   Prosecutors labeled Hasson a terrorist and a white supremacist who should be put away for 25 years.  U.S. Attorney Robert Hur said Hasson intended to inflict violence on the basis of his racist and hateful beliefs.  'As long as violent extremists take steps to harm innocent people, we will continue to use all of the tools we have to prevent and deter them,' Hur said in a statement after the sentencing.  Hasson admitted to unlawfully possessing firearms, gun silencers and Tramadol and was sentenced to 13 years.  He said he was 'embarrassed' by the racist, violent writings investigators found on his computer, the Huffington Post reported. 'I have never hurt anyone in my life and I was not planning to in any way, shape or form,' he told Judge George Hazel of the U.S. District Court in Greenbelt, Maryland, in the hearing Friday.  His lawyers claimed Hasson was not planning any attacks but rather was in the grip of a years-long opioid addiction that created 'significant mood disturbances,' according to a letter they wrote this month to the judge. 'Like many Americans, Mr. Hasson went through a difficult time in mid-life, when he became addicted to prescription opioids,' his lawyers wrote, saying he was taking three or four times the daily approved dose of Tramadol, a prescription-only medicine he ordered illegally online.  'His criminal conduct arose out of this addiction.'  They had asked that Hasson be sentenced only to the time he has already served in prison and three years of supervised release.  Judge Hazel sentenced Hasson to 13 years.  He was not charged with conspiring to commit any violent crimes.  
