medicine
{ By Michael Thomsen For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:48, 31 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7953349/New-study-shows-car-accident-common-week-Daylight-Savings-Time.html }
A team of researchers at the University of Colorado Boulder have found a consistent increase in the number of traffic accidents that occur every year, during the week that immediately follows the shift to Daylight Savings Times. They analyzed 732,835 accident records collected between 1996 and 2017 and found a six percent increase in traffic accidents every year during the week of Daylight Savings Time. (The filtered out all records from Indiana and Arizona because neither of those states observes Daylight Savings.) The short-term increase also tracked with the 2007 shift of Daylight Savings from the first Sunday of April to the second Sunday of March. In total, there were 627 fatal traffic accidents between 1996 and 2017 attributed to Daylight Savings Time.  ‘Our study provides additional, rigorous evidence that the switch to daylight saving time in spring leads to negative health and safety impacts,’ Céline Vetter, assistant professor of integrative physiology at University of Colorado Boulder, told CU Boulder Today. ‘These effects on fatal traffic accidents are real, and these deaths can be prevented.’   The team also cautioned that, if anything, their findings may actually under-report the number of accidents since the database they drew from, the US Fatality Analysis Reporting System, only tracks the severe accidents. The database excludes less serious fender benders or incidences where no official report or insurance claim was made. Scientists have long known the change to Daylight Savings time brings with it a number of public health hazards.   Other studies have shown that heart attacks, strokes, and workplace injuries all become more frequent during the weak following the shift to Daylight Savings Time. The increases are usually attributed to fatigue brought on by the sudden loss of an hour of sleep as people change their clocks forward. The effects of this shift are most acute with people who are already overworked or in sleep-deprived. ‘Our results support the theory that abolishing time changes completely would improve public health,’ said Vetter. ‘But where do we head from here? Do we go to permanent standard time or permanent daylight saving time?’ There are growing calls from scientists and experts to change daylight saving time to try and reduce its effects on people's health.  Time changes mess with sleep schedules, a potential problem when so many people are already sleep deprived, says Dr Phyllis Zee, a sleep researcher at Northwestern Medicine in Chicago. Research suggests that chronic sleep deprivation can increase levels of stress hormones that boost heart rate and blood pressure, and of chemicals that trigger inflammation. Scientists have also found that heart attacks are more common in general in the morning, and that incident rates increase slightly on Mondays after clocks are moved forward in the spring, when people typically rise an hour earlier than normal. That increased risk associated with the time change is mainly in people already vulnerable because of existing heart disease, said Barry Franklin, director of preventive cardiology and cardiac rehabilitation at Beaumont Health hospital in Royal Oak, Michigan. Studies suggest that these people return to their baseline risk after the autumn time change. Numerous studies have also linked the start of daylight saving time in the spring with a brief spike in car accidents, and with poor performance on tests of alertness, both likely due to sleep loss. The research includes a German study published this year that found an increase in traffic fatalities in the week after the start of daylight saving time, but no such increase in the fall. Till Roenneberg, a specialist at Ludwig-Maximilian University in Munich, Northwestern's Dr Zee said: 'If we want to improve human health, we should not fight against our body clock, and therefore we should abandon daylight saving time.' Source: Associated Press    
