medicine
{ By Jemma Carr For Mailonline   Published:  20:28, 31 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7953307/Furious-guest-storms-coronavirus-hit-hotel.html }
A furious guest stormed out of a coronavirus-hit hotel in York after previously being forced into quarantine when she got swine flu in 2007. Michaela Saunders, 26, claims £49-a-night StayCity hotel in York never warned her that two of its guests had been diagnosed with the disease.  The people, believed to be Chinese nationals, are currently being treated by Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust in its specialist Airborne High Consequences Infectious Disease Centre (HCID).  Ms Saunders - who contracted Swine Flu in 2007 and was in quarantine for a week with the virus - checked in earlier today with a friend for a two-night city break.  But after learning on Facebook that two guests had been diagnosed with coronavirus she demanded a refund and checked out. The mother-of-one from Bishop Auckland said: 'I am angry that we were not warned.  'I have a little boy at home and I don't want there to be any risk of me catching coronavirus and passing it on to him.  'We booked this break ages ago, but when we arrived at reception this afternoon we were told nothing whatsoever. 'We found out about the coronavirus story at this hotel from Facebook and immediately decided to check out. We were not going to stop here a minute longer. I just cracked.  'I've seen no evidence of any safety measures or trying to stop guests moving around, which I would have thought there would have been.  'The receptionist didn't argue about giving us a full refund, so that says something doesn't it.  'There is no way I would want to risk catching anything like Swine Flu again.' The coronavirus, which has infected nearly 10,000 people and killed 213, is known to spread easily through coughs and sneezes and close contact, and people may be contagious even if they feel well.  Authorities in the UK today launched a nation-wide hunt for anyone who came into contact with Britain's first two coronavirus patients.  Paul Hunter, a professor of medicine at the University of East Anglia, blasted the Government's 'worrying' response after it emerged that Staycity hotel remained open and rooms can still be booked for tonight.  The Department of Health has repeatedly refused to give any details about the two coronavirus victims, citing 'patient confidentially', and have also knocked back questions about where and when they entered Britain and where they have been before arriving in York. York's rich history makes it a hugely popular stop for visitors on tours of Britain and Europe. MailOnline understands the infected people – quarantine at the Royal Victoria Infirmary in Newcastle-upon-Tyne – were taken from the Staycity hotel and have never returned or collected their belongings including suitcases, clothing and toiletries, which remain sealed in their room.  Professor Hunter says the Government had a 'duty' to warn anyone who may have come into contact with the confirmed coronavirus patients of the 'risks' - and said it was 'worrying' officials are being so tight-lipped about the confirmed cases. He told MailOnline: 'The [DoH] at least needs to tell people how big the potential spread of this virus is, and how much contact with the wider community these two have had.  'Why didn't the Department of Health say something sooner?'  
