medicine
{ By Ellie May Donohoe For Mailonline   Published:  21:32, 31 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7952755/Casualtys-Cathy-Shipton-reveals-reflexology-helped-pregnant.html }
Cathy Shipton has revealed that reflexology helped her get pregnant with daughter Tallulah Grace Lily in 2001 after being told she was unable to have children. The actress appeared on Loose Women on Friday morning and discussed with the ladies how she was able to conceive with the assistance of homeopathic methods after her first round of IVF failed.  The Casualty star, 62, looked gorgeous in a simple navy dress and a pair of classic nude court shoes for her appearance.   Scroll down for video  After a discussion about Gwyneth Paltrow's latest Netflix show centred around her lifestyle brand, Goop, they pondered what role homeopathy has in the world. It was then Kathy explained to the panel: 'It was reflexology that helped me get pregnant. 'I was told I couldn’t have children, I had IVF that didn’t work and you know, that's like a miscarriage, it's a bereavement.  'So I thought I've got to get myself together again. So I went to this woman and I told her my story and she said she does reflexology, and often its the Fallopian tubes.  'So she said along here on the wrist, or on the ankle it could boost the tubes. I was pregnant in three months.' The Goop Lab was released last week on Netflix and has faced controversy from it's methods, with the head of the NHS England chiming in. However, Cathy explained to the ladies that homeopathy helped in assisting her with conceiving alongside medical methods.  The actress further detailed this when she said: 'It’s something I’ve been interested in for 30/ 40 years. 'I see it as complimentary to medicine, I don’t think it’s one or the other… when I had my hip surgery I had homeopathy that supported the surgery.' Cathy has left Casualty after being a permanent fixture on the show as  Lisa 'Duffy' Duffin since the pilot episode in 1986. She has hung up her nurses uniform after more than 350 episodes of the BBC medical drama. She described her final episode as 'beautifully written,' adding: 'It’ll be a standalone episode for me.' Last year it was revealed that Duffy had been diagnosed with vascular dementia which ultimately sparks her departure from show.   
