medicine
{ By Doug Shields For Mail Online   Published:  14:12, 31 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7952031/Gran-claims-shes-selling-wheelchair-eBay-painful-arthritis-CURED-copper-insoles.html }
A grandmother claims she has thrown away her walking stick and is selling her wheelchair on eBay after her crippling arthritis was 'cured' by copper insoles. Retired receptionist Lynn Moore, 75, from Crosby, Liverpool, suffered excruciating pain in both her feet for 18 years after she broke both of them within seven months of each other. The arthritis pain became so agonising she was forced to quit her place on her local bowls team and even found it difficult to get up the stairs. Lynn even bought a wheelchair so daughter Jane, 50, could push her around the shops. But within two months of fitting copper heeler insoles into two pairs of her shoes and her slippers, she says she began to feel the pain and discomfort ease. Now she regularly takes Jane's Jack Russell Poppy out for walks and is set to list her wheelchair on eBay. Lynn's battle with arthritis began after she broke both feet in 1999. She told FEMAIL: 'I had an accident and broke my right foot falling downstairs at home. After that I came out of Ikea in Warrington and broke the left foot coming out of Ikea. 'I had a pair of block heels on I and came out of the shop, stepped down and my heel caught in grid. I fell and heard something go crack so that was it. That's why they have been so bad.  'Both times I broke the metatarsal. After the plaster came off both times they were very sore, then I started to get arthritis. The doctor said that happens after a break. 'It just got worse and worse over the years. It was awful, absolutely awful and there's nothing they can really give to you to ease it. I didn't want Co-codamol as that upsets my stomach. 'I had to wear shoes that were a size too big for me because of the swelling. The arthritis was in both feet. 'I couldn't go anywhere, couldn't do anything. It was really awful.' Divorcee Lynn was used to being fit and healthy, having spent years running pubs on Merseyside – her first at the age of 21 - where she was on her feet all day, so being unable to walk properly came as a nasty shock. She became virtually housebound as her condition worsened and she soon gave up her place with the local ladies bowls team in Liverpool because she was no longer able to play. Mother-of-four Lynn, who also has 12 grandchildren and 11 great grandchildren, struggled on and moved to Northern Ireland to care for daughter Sue, now 50, who was poorly and required a liver transplant. When she returned from Ballymena she moved in with her other daughter Jane and their three young children in East Finchley, London.  But with her condition continuing to deteriorate in the winter of 2018, she was forced to give up driving and rarely ventured out of the house.  Lynn said: 'I used to pay bowls for a ladies team once a week and practiced twice a week, but I couldn't play after that so I had to stop.  'Getting up the stairs and down the stairs was really hard. Generally getting around in the house was very difficult. 'Then I had a bad right knee which was a consequence of having arthritis in my feet. I have got a bad hip as well. 'Because of the way I was walking, that had an effect on my knee. It all started with my feet.' In late 2018 Lynn, who used to get by with a walking stick, was in so much pain she bought a wheelchair so Jane could push her around the shops. She added: 'I needed the wheelchair to be taken out. I couldn't get out and about by myself. It was too painful to walk. 'I bought the wheelchair second hand. It was essentially housebound without it. 'Jane would take me out in the chair, they would put it in the back of their 4x4. It wasn't very pleasant being pushed around in the chair. I hated every minute of it. 'It was terrible as I didn't want to ask anybody. I didn't want to inconvenience them. It was very difficult indeed.' Lynn's break came when a friend on the Wirral mentioned they knew someone who had used copper heelers and found they eased arthritic pain. Copper has been used as a medicine for thousands of years including the treatment of chest wounds and the purifying of drinking water. More recently, research has indicated that copper helps prevent inflammation in arthritis and similar diseases when it is absorbed by skin.  Dr Wendy Holden, Arthritis Action's medical advisor and consultant rheumatologist at North Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust said: 'Many people with arthritis wear copper bracelets to try to help with the stiffness and pain. 'The makers of bracelets sometimes claim that small amounts of copper from the bracelet somehow get into the blood through the skin and that this help arthritis. 'There is no evidence at all that these bracelets work or that lack of copper causes arthritis, but they don't cause any harm and if some people feel better because of them then that's great news for them, even if it's just a placebo effect. 'Interestingly, gold is an old-fashioned treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and there are stories of people in the past who had less severe arthritis in their wedding ring finger.' Tony Andrews of The Original Copper Heeler said: 'Our products have been easing pain for arthritis sufferers all over the world for more than a decade now. 'We ship them to all four corners of the globe and some of the stories we hear are incredible. 'Lynn's story is one of those. We are delighted she now has a different, better life and can once again do things she probably thought she would never be able to.'  She went on to the web and ordered a £24.95 pair from www.TheOriginalCopperHeeler.com – a business run by London-based specialist shoe manufacturer Tony Andrews. Lynn said: 'I heard about the original copper heelers from a friend, so I thought "Oh well, I may as well try them," I was desperate. 'I didn't think they would be any good, but I was willing to try anything and got them last March.' Within weeks Lynn started to feel slightly less discomfort and found she was able to move around more easily. Last summer she decided to venture out on her own – for the first time in more than two years. She added: 'I remember it was a lovely day and I thought, "Let's take the bull by the horns" and I decided to go for a walk down the street in East Finchley. Then I walked back. 'My feet were sore but I couldn't believe how much better it felt. Things have improved and improved and improved since then. I feel so much better 'I was in the depths of despair and now I could walk. I was over the moon. I was so down before I was on anti-depressants. 'When I got back from the walk I was thinking, "I have just been for a walk!" It was the first time in about two years. 'The first time I walked around a couple of hundred yards there and the same distance back. 'I was thinking, "My gosh, I have just been out on my own." So I went out again the next day. And the next day. 'Each day I went further and further and then I started putting the dog on the lead and taking Poppy, my daughter's little Jack Russell, with me for a walk.' Last November Lynn went back to Northern Ireland to see Sue. When she stepped off the plane Sue was stunned to see her mum walking towards her without her walking stick – and not in a wheelchair. Lynn said: 'Things have continued to improve vastly. I am now able to go and pick up my grandchildren from school – and have even started driving again.' 'The best thing is I am now selling the wheelchair and I am going to buy a bike to get around on.'   
