{ By Ellie May Donohoe For Mailonline   Published:  13:34, 31 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7951711/Kelly-Osbourne-puts-brave-face-steps-RuPauls-Drag-Race-Live-premiere.html }
Kelly Osbourne put on a brave face as she stepped out on Thursday night at the premiere of RuPaul's Drag Race Live at the Flamingo, Las Vegas.  The 35-year-old star's outing comes after her dad, Ozzy Osbourne, 71, made the heartbreaking admission that he 'won't be here much longer', after revealing he is battling Parkinson's disease earlier this month.   The media-personality looked sensational at the event where she donned a floor length black polka dot dress with elegant long sleeves and a high neck.  Kelly looked incredible at the event, as she showcased her usual dramatic style, complete with the billowing gothic gown which flaunted her figure.   The purple-haired beauty wore her tresses styled in a blunt bob and wore a complementing make-up palette that accentuated her porcelain features.  For Kelly, who is a frequent guest judge on Drag Race, her outing comes just one day after her dad spoke about his Parkinson's diagnosis in an interview with Kerrang!   The Black Sabbath frontman, who revealed his diagnosis earlier this month, admitted that while he's 'not happy' about his ailing health, he doesn't 'dwell' or 'worry' about death. Hailing music as 'the best medicine', the singer and songwriter shared: 'I won’t be here in another 15 years or whatever, not that much longer, but I don’t dwell on it.' 'Do I ever think about when my time’s gonna come? I think about it, I don’t worry about it', the musician candidly said in this week's magazine. The Osbournes star elaborated on his outlook on life since discovering his condition as he added: 'It’s gonna happen to us all. Am I happy now? No. I haven’t got my health. That thing knocked the s*** out of me, man, but I’m still here.' Parkinson's causes muscle stiffness, slowness of movement, tremors, sleep disturbance, chronic fatigue, an impaired quality of life and can lead to severe disability. It is a progressive neurological condition that destroys cells in the part of the brain that controls movement. Distancing herself briefly from the heartbreak, at the event Kelly was joined by some of the show's most recognisable drag queens who looked sensational in supporting the show's creator, RuPaul.  The legend himself wore a stylish black glittery suit that he paired with a cowboy hat. The Sissy That Walk singer, 59, completed his ensemble with red tinted sunglasses and a silver buckle belt. Gigi Goode was a vision in a mustard suit and matching top hat, she completed her look with a polka dot tie.  Also in yellow was a dazzling Kahanna Montrese who looked sensational in a floor length gown with billowing sleeves that fell off the shoulder in a bardot style.   Season three star India Ferrah wore a plunging green dress and matching drop earrings.  While season eight runner-up Naomi Smalls cut a feminine look in a gorgeous white dress with a tulle skirt.  Kameron Michaels looked jaw dropping when she donned a gigantic crown on the back of her red bodysuit. Derrick Barry, the Britney Spears of season eight, pulled out all the stops in a nude dress that was completed with green sparkly patches in leopard print.  An animated Yvie Oddly wore a Gothic black gown with a matching headpiece and gloves. The gorgeous CoCo Montrese was a vision in a yellow ruffled mini dress paired with thigh high lace up boots.  While Asia O'Hara slipped into a tropical green robe and pink wig for the event.  Shannel, who competed on the very first season, kept things classy in a one-shoulder gown that featured black detailing with diamond studs.  Actor Jamal Sims, who directed the live show, looked dapper in a fuchsia pink suit paired with a simple white shirt underneath.  RuPaul's Drag Race Live is an interactive live show with an all-star cast from the television series. Watch RuPaul's Drag Race on Netflix, or on Stan in Australia.  
