medicine
{ By Carina Stathis and Claudia Poposki For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  03:43, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8024091/Mum-claims-genius-way-stop-mosquito-bites-itching.html }
A mother claims she's found a simple yet bizarre way to stop the infuriating itch of mosquito bites. Carmelle Pietsch, a naturopath from Western Australia, said using a banana peel on the bite does the trick for her kids every time. 'Just peel the banana and rub the inside of the peel over the bites a few times,' she said in a social media post. 'The itch is gone super quick! And there's no more ''Mum, I'm itchy''.'   Pest control websites echoed her claim - including leading brand Rentokil. The company listed banana skins on a list of seven items to help reduce itching, which also included ice and aloe vera. Rentokil said this is due to the 'natural oils' found in bananas.  Doctor of natural medicine and clinical nutritionist Dr Axe said research has shown that banana peel can help with mosquito bites: 'Onions and bananas can help stop the itching. Just rub inside of the banana peel or a piece of onion directly onto the bite for relief,' he said. One social media user wrote: 'I had no idea! Mozzies love me and my bites turn nasty so I'll try this next time!' Another said their child is often plagued by mosquito bites. 'No matter how many times we spray before bed they devour her! Definitely worth a try to relieve the itch,' the mother said. Others shared their own ways of easing itchiness from mosquito bites. One person said they find Vicks VapoRub helps them, while another said brown vinegar is also effective.  While the home trick seems to work for some, others weren't as convinced and said they'll keep using store-bought products.  'Seems counterproductive but mosquito repellents like Off seem to help reduce swelling and itching on bites you already have,' another user said.  Australian feneral practitioner Dr Dasha Fielder told FEMAIL while the inside of a banana may soothe the bite temporarily, there is no evidence proving the home remedy works completely. 'Using soothing creams or, in extreme cases, taking an antihistamine pill is mostly recommended for bad mosquito bites,' she told Daily Mail Australia. However, she said that the soothing nature of a banana skin may provide some respite.  
