{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  01:59, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8027347/Call-change-aged-care-workforce.html }
Australia's aged care royal commission has heard "the time is now" for real action on staffing numbers, skill levels, remuneration, conditions and regulation in the troubled sector. The changes would be underpinned by an effort to make aged care more attractive to potential employees. Senior counsel assisting, Peter Rozen QC, asked the commissioners to make 10 recommendations relating to workforce issues at an Adelaide hearing on Friday. Mr Rozen said it was "time to stop kicking the can down the road" and called for the introduction of mandated minimum ratio of care staff to residents to achieve high quality, safe and person-centred services. He said staffing levels within each facility should be shared with the government and made available to older people and families when making decisions. Those levels should be set at between 186 and 265 minutes of care per resident each day, including 30 minutes with a registered nurse and 22 minutes of allied health care. The commission heard mandated ratios would address unacceptably low staffing levels, and guard against attempts to whittle away numbers in budget cycles. Mr Rozen also said there had been an "apparent exodus" of skilled workers from the aged care system, with roles once undertaken by a registered nurse now left to untrained assistants. "It is hardly surprising in these circumstances that this royal commission has received thousands of submissions by members of the public complaining about the substandard care being provided," he said. To combat the shortage, he recommended that, as a minimum, a registered nurse be on-site and available at all times. Other recommendations focused on education, including a review of undergraduate medical school curriculums with a view towards making geriatric medicine a core element. Mr Rozen also urged that a registration scheme for personal care workers be set up to ensure and monitor the quality of the workforce. Giving evidence before the commission, American nursing professor Charlene Harrington said facilities that did not uphold the mandatory minimum levels should face tough sanctions. She agreed the quality and quantity of staff was crucial to overall standard of care. "The failure to set minimum staffing standards is fundamental to all of the problems we're having," she said. Another witness, New Zealand employment relations associate professor Katherine Ravenswood, said discriminatory attitudes towards women and old people were holding back progress in the sector. She said this issue could be addressed by more social discussion and a campaign led by government. Since it was established in late 2018, the commission has received more than 8000 public submissions and 5500 calls to an information line. Public submissions will be accepted until the end of April, before the commissioners deliver their final report by November. 
