drugs
{  
    October 24 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/new-website-to-teach-clubbers-about-the-effects-of-taking-drugs-27759780.html }
An innovative website aimed at clubbers has been launched to provide information on drugs and their effects. The website www.clubscene.ie has been developed by the Merchants Quay Project, a voluntary organisation working with drug users, people who are homeless and other marginalised groups in Inner-city Dublin, Ireland. The site contains information on various dance scene drugs, including ecstasy, LSD, heroin and GHB (Gamma-hydroxy butyrate). It also provides advice for concerned parents and friends of people who are using drugs, an online questionnaire and a section on frequently asked questions. Clubscene's Òharm reduced' section gives advice for first time users, safer use of dance drugs - such as drinking water, and advice on how to help a fiend who is having a Òbad trip'. ÒDrugs and the Law' sets out in details the rights of someone found in possession of drugs. The initiative goes further than informing young people, but also providing advice and information for pub and club owners who are concerned that drug use may be an issue on their premises. This section provides information on preventing of drug use on premises, good practice guidelines and the prevention of drug related harm by measures such as ensuring that Òchill out' areas are provided in clubs and that drinking water is available at all times. It also advises owners of the law pertaining to them, and advises on when they should seek medical attention for clubbers and a question and answers section to tie up any loose ends. The organisation clearly state on site that they neither condemn nor condone the use of any drug but Òrecognise that drug use is a part of our society and that there will always be people who use drugs'. Clubscene represents a significant change in approach to dealing with the drug issue, contrasting with previous anti-drug campaigns such as the ÒJust Say No' campaign of the 1980s. ÒThe Clubscene site avoids a morally prescriptive approach in favour of an approach that recognises that drug use is widespread and that people need accurate information about the risks associated with their drug use, and advice on how to minimize drug related harm,' MQI Director of Services, Tony Geoghegan said. Funded by a transnational EU drugs project, the project was set up in response to the high number of calls the Merchant's Quay project receive from people using dance drugs who use have little awareness of the risks involved. ÒIt was apparent that a different, more informal and accessible approach had to be taken if we were to establish an information service for dance drug users.' An estimated 1 million ecstasy pills are taken weekly in Ireland. Up to 750,000 Irish people are thought to have taken the drug, with about 100,000 regular users (second Report of Ministerial Task Force on Measures to Reduce the Demand for Drugs, 1997). Ecstasy is the most popular of a number of drugs used by clubbers in Irish cities every weekend. Up until now it has been relatively difficult for clubbers to get accurate independent information about the drugs they are using, the risks involved and ways of minimising the risks to which they are exposed. 
