drugs
{  
    June 20 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/not-enough-drugs-squad-gardai-to-tackle-blanket-availability-27527408.html }
Labour party councillor for the Sligo/Drumcliff area and Sligo North Ward, Veronica Cawley, has said that while the number of gardai assigned to the local drug squad remains at its current level of four, the spread and availability of all class of drugs throughout our community will continue. Speaking at a meeting of the North Ward branch of the Labour Party, Clr. Cawley said that further to the reply she had received to a parliamentary question tabled by Joe Costello T.D., spokes person for the Labour Party on Justice, Equality and Law, the figures for the number of gardai attached to the drug squad in the Sligo district had remained at four, over the last twelve months. "What is needed now are realistic numbers of gardai assigned to the drug squad to restore public confidence and stop the seemingly blanket availability of illegal drugs in our community," Clr. Cawley maintained. In the reply from the Minister for Justice, Equality and Law Reform Mr. McDowell, the only notable difference in the figures was the make up of the squad and grades of the gardai attached to the squad. It also noted that Garda management stated that all Garda personnel had the responsibility for the enforcement of the drug legislation. "It has become a nightmare for many parents, that their children could be exposed to an increasing variety of illegal drugs and that they may feel under pressure to try them. It is common knowledge that illegal drugs have now reached towns, villages, pubs and even into school yards through the country. The dogs on the street know who is involved in dealing in illegal drugs and where to go to get drugs. "It has to be acknowledged that while the number of gardai in the drug squad in Sligo has not increased, the results that have been achieved are impressive and commendable. This begs the question: what would they achieve if there were realistic numbers on the squad? How can a real effort be made to challenge the spread and availability of all class of illegal drugs throughout our community, when the number of gardai assigned to the drug squad has not been increased in the last number of years in Sligo," Cllr. Cawley said. She argued that in the absence of a comprehensive drug squad, the ever-increasing spread and supply of drugs would continue. "The types of illegal drugs that are available are also increasing. It is well known that cocaine is readily available on the streets of Sligo and fears are growing that stronger drugs could start to make inroads as people look for more ways to profit from the sale of drugs. The drug business is the same as any business, with profit as the main objective for involvement, and the profit on drugs are high enough to outstrip the risks involved. "There are many challenges facing communities trying to stop the spread of illegal drugs and provide alternative interests for young people. Part of the solution is the provision of community facilities and services and this work requires some funding from the government, the funding that is currently made available to communities falls far short of what is required. "Where are the supports, manpower and resources necessary to get to grips with this problem? While the numbers of gardai assigned to the drug squad remain unchanged, the spread of illegal drugs will continue. With the best will in the world, let’s face reality and ask how can four designated gardai have a significant impact on the increasingly widespread availability of illegal drugs on our communities," Cllr. Cawley concluded. 
