drugs
{ Charlie Weston 
    July 20 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/if-our-drug-prices-have-been-frozen-for-13-years-why-are-they-so-expensive-25976470.html }
As medicine giants prepare to sit down with Irish civil servants to set prices for the next five years, consumers here are already paying twice as much as their Spanish counterparts for the same drugs IN a few weeks' time representatives from some of the largest drugs makers in the State will sit down with officials from the Department of Health and hammer out a deal to set the prices of medicines for the next five years. There is a lot at stake. The taxpayer has to foot a bill of ?1bn a year for medicines, through various drugs reimbursement schemes (for example, for medical card patients and those availing of the Drugs Payment Scheme). The agreement dictates the prices of drugs bought outside these schemes also. The process of global drugs giants like Pfizer, Procter & Gamble and Wyeth agreeing prices with the Department has meant that the wholesale prices of medicines in Ireland have been frozen for the last 13 years. But despite the price freeze, independent research has confirmed that Ireland is the fourth most expensive country in the eurozone for medicinal and pharmaceutical products. So the question arises: if wholesale drugs prices have been frozen since 1993, how come Irish drugs are so expensive and rising in price? Is the taxpayer getting value for money or are the manufacturers able to get around the price freeze to extract high profits from this market? That's certainly the suspicion of the Consumers' Association, which has questioned the need for a deal with the manufacturers at all when, for example, the retail price of drugs in Spain is half the price they are in Ireland. Many Irish holidaymakers in Spain, who have filled a prescription for a fraction of the cost in Ireland, have been moved to ask if there is not a cure for drug prices in dear old Ireland. However, up to now there has been no reference to prices in Spain when the Department officials and the Irish Pharmaceutical Healthcare Association (which represents the manufacturers) signed agreements. Under the agreements, the price of each individual drug is set by comparing the British price and the price in a basket of five countries (Britain, Denmark, France, Germany and the Netherlands), and adopting the lower of these two. The agreement means prices may not be raised. Critics of the agreement argue that the method of setting manufacturers' prices for drugs is flawed because the reference list of countries used to benchmark prices is too limited. Head of advocacy at the Competition Authority, Declan Purcell, has argued in an academic paper that the benchmark "should be revised to reflect a more realistic set of comparators". The limited list of countries used to assess drugs prices may help explain why, despite the agreement between the IPHA and the Department freezing prices, inflation in pharmaceutical products has been consistently higher in prescription drugs than other medicines. In the year to last January inflation was running at a rate of 3.8pc in the prescription drugs market. Little wonder, then, that a recent survey found that 60pc of consumers believed they are not getting value for money when it comes to buying drugs. The apparent contradiction of prices being frozen but rising at the same time is also explained by new, more expensive drugs entering the market. Critics of the system argue that these "new products" are a way of getting around the agreement. One pharmaceutical industry source went so far as to charge that often the "new products" are not new at all but a reformulation of older products introduced to get around the price freeze. The Irish Independent was unable to put this charge to the IPHA as it told us it was not "in a position to discuss any aspects of the upcoming IPHA/DoHC agreement prior to negotiations with the Department of Health and Children". This "new drug" situation could be avoided if, before introducing it, an economic test of the need for the therapy was carried out (by the Department's pharmaeconomics unit) along with testing its therapeutic value. This is standard practice in other countries. Critics of the agreement with manufacturers also argue that the State is losing out up to ?15m a year because of a failure to promote cheaper, generic medicines. Approximately 85-95pc of prescriptions in Ireland are for branded drugs, according to a recent report commissioned by the Consumer Strategy Group. In some EU countries, pharmacists may substitute a prescribed branded drug with a cheaper generic equivalent. Pharmacists in Ireland are not allowed to substitute. While there is a Government scheme to incentivise doctors to prescribe generically, at present it is optional and the take-up is low. Another aspect of the pharmacy trade where the consumer/taxpayer is getting poor value for money arises from the extensive use of discounts for volume in the industry. Even though the prices of drugs are supposed to be fixed, wholesalers give discounts to retail pharmacists which are not passed on to the State or the consumer. Is it any wonder that retail pharmacy has been a virtual gold rush for the past three-and-a-half years? The prices deal can be circumvented in other ways. Products which are unlicensed, either because their licence has run out or they have yet to get approval from the Irish Medicines Board, are not subject to the rigours of the agreement. According to the Irish Pharmaceutical Union, as many as 800 medicines in regular use no longer have, or never had, a licence. A recent report of the Consumer Strategy Group earlier this year argued that before any prices are set a consumer-impact assessment should be carried out. The group also called for the talks between the Department and the drugs makers to involve a consumer representative. Chairman of the Consumers' Association Michael Kilcoyne criticised the lack of consumer input and questioned if the State and consumers are getting value for money. Mr Kilcoyne has questioned the need for an agreement at all, claiming that unabated competition would serve the State and the consumer better. However, most other European governments do agree with drug makers. In Britain a new deal with the manufacturers has just been agreed, but significantly, with a 7pc reduction in prices. The British drove a hard bargain with drug makers. It remains to be seen if this Government gets a better deal this time around for the State and the consumer. 
