drugs
{  
    January 07 2009 04:21 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/drug-violence-hits-dundalk-26929643.html }
The brutal murder of a 24 year old local man just days after Christmas has brought home to many the harsh reality that the violence associated with the drugs culture has arrived in Dundalk. Up until now drug motivated killings was seen as something which was part of the gangland feuds in Dublin and Limerick, not something which would happen in a relatively peaceful provincial town like Dundalk. There have been drugs related deaths in Dundalk in the past, from overdoses, accidental or otherwise, and from illnesses associated with drug abuse. But this is believed to be the first time that anyone has been killed because of their involvement in the shady world of drug dealing. Drugs and violence go hand in hand, from the dealers enforcing their terriority to the drug masters who force mules to smuggle drugs from one country to another. For years, community workers in Dundalk have been warning that the grim scenario of drug addiction, violence and death which has plagued Dublin and other Irish cities was on its way here. Only recently has this view been taken on board at official level, but unfortunately it's a little too late. It wasn't until Chief Supt Pat McGee met with town councillors in 2005 that a senior Garda figure acknowledged that there was a heroin problem in town. Arising out of that meeting, the Dundalk Drugs Advisory Group was formed with the intention of seeing what could be done to halt the growing drug problem. The Group commissioned a report from researchers at Queens University Belfast which gave a grim and graphic insight into Dundalk's drug scene. A series of interviews with those working with drug addicts, community leaders, health service employees, GPs, and most importantly addicts and their families, led to recommendations as to what could be done to help those abusing drugs and to prevent others from doing so. Key recommendations including reducing the waiting time which addicts have to endure for methadone treatment, improved outreach services, and greater involvement of the town's GPs in the provision of services. The recession means that those resources which do exist won't be extended, and if anything, they will be reduced. Just before Christmas the 'Make Change' Project learned that their funding was being cut, leaving the town without a community outreach service in Muirheavnamor and Coxes Demense. Cutbacks in the health service and Garda Siochana will inevitably result in less manpower to deal with the problem, with communities being left to cope without the supports and backups which they need. The growing extent of Dundalk's drug problem can be seen in our courts. Twenty years ago, it was alcohol which was a contributing factor to many crimes and an appearance for possession of cannabis made the headlines. Nowadays, a considerable number of those going through the judicial system are drug addicts whose crimes are committed because of their addiction. The same is sadly true of the coroner's court, where there have been a number of inquests into deaths resulting from drug overdoses. The drug culture crosses all sectors of society, from the high living pop stars and A-list celebrities to the kids in working class estates. And while the rich and famous may have recourse to the rehab clinics like The Priory which have become household names, the ordinary victims are left adrift with long waiting lists for what services which do exist. The need for services to prevent our young people from falling into the grip of drug abuse was brought home to those who attended the funeral of Stephen Quigley. In his homily, Fr McGinnity said the young man had not been born to die the way he did. No one sets out to be a drug addict, yet unfortunately more and more young people are ending up on that path. As Fr McGinnity said, drugs can seem to offer an attractive high, particularly to young people who are feeling lost or confused. But more needs to be done than the priest's urging of young people to dedicate themselves to Our Lady. Education needs to be provided to young people and their parents. Parents need to know that the person who is mostly like to offer their child drugs is not a shady character down an alley way but a friend or acquaintance. Parents need to know the signs which would alert them to the fact that their child could be abusing drugs and they need to know where to turn to get help for that child. These services need to be available in the community for everyone. It's almost thirty years ago since Tony Gregory, who passed away at the weekend, highlighted how drugs were destroying communities in Dublin. Now we need to listen to those voices which are warning that the same thing could happen, is happening, to our town. 
