drugs
{ Treacy Hogan and Eilish O'Regan 
    September 03 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/beware-drug-drivers-the-new-killers-on-our-roads-26072964.html }
THE ISSUE of drug driving in Ireland is increasingly being described as a "sleeping giant" as growing numbers of drivers under the influence of street drugs or medicines are  taking the wheel with the potential to kill or be killed. The stark figures obtained yesterday disclose that a shocking four out of ten drivers detected driving erratically had drugs in their system confirming a new roads menace - the drugs driver. Concern is also mounting among gardai and the National Safety Council over the number of young motorists being killed, often on their way to work, after falling asleep at the wheel. They are literally driving themselves to an early grave through a fatal cocktail of fatigue, drugs and alcohol. The world learned four years ago that Princess Diana's driver, Henri Paul who was blamed for the crash which took their lives, was found to have anti-depressants and alcohol in his blood. But such recklessness is all too common. Until now safety campaigns have been almost exclusively targeting driving under the influence of alcohol but the stark evidence is now mounting that drugs - often combined with drink - are contributing to our terrifying road carnage. Preliminary results from the Medical Bureau of Road Safety in UCD have unveiled how 37pc of samples taken from drivers under the legal limit for alcohol tested positive for drugs - predominantly cannabis and tranquillisers. This contrasts with a rate of 14.6pc in 1987. The analysis shows that, in the majority of cases where drugs were detected, alcohol was also present. Other drugs found in the systems of the drivers included cocaine, opiates - including codeine found in cough mixtures - and methadone which is prescribed by doctors as heroin substitute. To date it has been under-reported because it is has not been recognised. Gardai may be well trained to detect signs of alcohol abuse, with the help of breathalyser, but drug recognition may require more specialised training. A number of prosecutions have taken place but clearly they are no measure of the real scale of the danger posed by drug-impaired driving. The driver can be left drowsy , sedated or even hyperactive with the result their reactions are dulled and their visual as well as judgment weakened. The tragedy is that a significant number of people medically in need of medicines may be unaware of the effect on their driving skills. Young drivers are cited as high risk for a combination of drugs and drink but the impact of prescribed medicines on the elderly who are still driving is also a cause of concern. Prof Denis Cusack of the Medical Bureau of Road Safety, the independent authority which analyses blood and urine samples for the gardai , believes that the problem of drugs driving is significantly increasing especially the use of cannabis, tranquillisers, ecstasy, methadone and amphetines. Matters have now got so bad that some 4pc of samples analysed during the research showed the presence of two or more drugs while five separate types were discovered in five per cent of the drivers. A significant number had more than one particular drug in their system. While Prof Cusack stresses that alcohol is still the drug which presents the biggest problem, others are also causing concern. There are no winners in drug driving. Stimulants such as ectasy and amphetimines give drivers a false sense of confidence over their ability leading them to underestimate the dangers. Depressant drugs, such as alcohol and tranquilisers, seriously slow down reaction times. The National Safety Council chief executive Pat Costello, too, is convinced that the combination of drugs, fatigue and/or alcohol is having an effect on the number of road deaths and yesterday expressed alarm that so many people were being killed going to work between 8-10am.They are nodding off to sleep behind the wheel in what Mr Costello describes at the morning after the night before crash. Some 27 people have so far been killed this year between those hours - such a high number is unusual, he believes. While not pointing the finger at any particular incident, Mr Costello believes that the early morning crash phenomenon is a "very worrying scenario". The question of enforcing a clampdown on those using drugs, whether prescription or illegal, is obviously of deep concern to the gardai. Of 78 suspect drug-driving blood samples analysed last year, three-quarters tested positive. From 2002 the Medical Research Bureau of Road Safety plans to test all blood and urine samples for drugs where alcohol is under the legal limit. The following year they are to test all the samples for drugs regardless of alcohol. It will then be up to the gardai whether a prosecution is brought under Section 49 of the Road Traffic Acts. Clearly, doctors and pharmacists have an important role when dispensing drugs by informing their patients about the potential side effects and warn them not to drive while taking the medication. Patients who drive for a living, such as long distance truckers, are obviously particularly at risk. 
