drugs
{  
    November 07 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/government-must-prioritise-drugs-problem-27112803.html }
Fine Gael Spokesperson on Community, Rural and Gaeltacht Affairs Fergus ODowd TD also called on the Government to put in place the services on the ground to give young people alternatives to substance abuse. The Governments failure to sufficiently fund drug treatment services and provide adequate recreational and sporting facilities for our young people, is Fine Gael Spokesperson on Community, Rural and Gaeltacht Affairs Fergus O’Dowd TD also called on the Government to put in place the services on the ground to give young people alternatives to substance abuse. ‘The Government’s failure to sufficiently fund drug treatment services and provide adequate recreational and sporting facilities for our young people, is adding to Ireland’s drug epidemic,’ said the Co Louth TD. He said that focus has been in recent years pre-dominantly on tackling the scourge of heroin at the expense of the other common drugs. ‘However, this does not mean that we can afford to take our eye off the ball in relation to other drugs. The fact remains that other drugs such as cocaine, cannabis, amphetamines and ecstasy are flooding every part of Ireland and very little is being done to address this escalating problem,’ said Deputy O’Dowd. He called on the Government to begin tackling our young people’s recreational drug culture. ‘Since this Government was re-elected in June 2002, many of the schemes designed to provide young people with alternatives to drugs – Young People’s Services, Facilities Fund and the RAPID programme – have been effectively dismantled. Chronic underfunding of our drug services and social amenities are endemic,’ said Deputy O’Dowd. His Fine Gael party colleague Ray Foley, who is contesting the local elections for the party next year, said he was ‘deeply disturbed’ having read the report from Francesca Lundstrom, ‘Review on Drugs and Alcohol Misuse in the Drogheda Area’, published last week. ‘Our town is becoming a “mini inner city Dublin”. As a young Drogheda man, I worry about the future of our town after reading about the actions of my peers. We are going the have an epidemic of depression and mental and physical health problems in the long term not to mention a serious drug-related crime problem,’ said Mr Foley. ‘Our area needs to focus on rehabilitation and extra addiction counsellors are badly needed in the area before the problem escalates to an uncontrollable level. Parents also need to be made aware of the signs and symptoms of drug and alcohol misuse in teenagers. These changes could help decrease the town’s drug and alcohol problems. ‘As recommended in the report, I will work towards a one-stop centre for Drogheda with counsellors, medical staff and family support personnel.’ The Drogheda Green Party, meanwhile, called on the Department of Education to fund drug education as part of the school curriculum to deal with the developing drug issues around the country. With the latest reports of Drogheda’s big drug problem and Ireland rated as a country where drugs are imported easily, all schools in Drogheda should establish drug education as part of the school curriculum in order to help young students deal with the abuse and dangers drug problems pose. ‘Given the latest report of drug use in Drogheda and the ease of drugs finding their way into the country the drug issue cannot be ignored, but must be challenged in a positive way and not treated by putting one’s head in the sand,’ said Michael McKeon of the local Green Party. 
