drugs
{  
    November 14 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/ioc-launches-anti-drugs-in-sport-agency-26261760.html }
Paul Lashmar THE scandal-ridden International Olympic Committee has confounded its many critics by launching the first world-wide anti-drugs in sport agency. While those opposed to the IOC running the body argued, the IOC has stolen the march and formed the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). It was formally constituted last Wednesday and will test athletes for using illegal drugs. This week IOC members will attend an international anti-drugs conference in Sydney to head off their critics. If the IOC pulls off their coup WADA's first task will be to regulate the Sydney 2000 Olympics next September. Critics argue that this presents the IOC with a conflict of interests, as it runs the Olympics as a business and will now tackle the potentially embarrassing problem of athletes taking drugs at the Games. In the past the IOC hid major dope scandals to protect the reputation of the Games. Ministers and officials from 27 countries, including China, Russia and the United States, are to meet in Sydney from Monday to Wednesday for an ``International Summit on Drugs in Sport'' in the which the future of WADA is expected to be the main topic of discussion. But resistance is crumbling with the next Olympics less than a year away and no other more credible alternative proposed. Both European Union Ministers and President Clinton's drug czar, GeneralBarry McCaffrey, have been highly critical of the IOC plan and wanted to see an independent agency. In February EU Ministers opposed the IOC plan. Then Sports Minister Tony Banks said, ``It's our unanimous opinion that we cannot at present accept the composition of the agency as drafted in the document.'' But last week the EU Commissioner for Sport Viviane Reding said talks she held with IOC bossJuan Antonio Samaranch had brought them closer to agreement. Gen McCaffrey complained earlier this year that the IOC legitimacy has been damaged by ``alleged corruption, lack of accountability and the failure in leadership.'' He said that effective action against drugs was vital. ``We have to protect the beliefs of 12 year olds that you don't have to use drugs and there will be a level playing field if you chose to compete.'' Gen McCaffrey is attending this week's conference but it is not yet clear whether the United States will bow to the IOC's fait accompli. The Australian Government also wanted an independent agency and proposed they run such an agency for the Sydney 2000 Olympics. Behind the scenes the IOC opposed this, saying that they never allowed governments to be involved in running the Olympics and this would break the terms that the 2000 Olympics were awarded to Sydney. Sport Minister Jack Kelly said, ``Australia's position remains that the agency's operations must be open and transparent. It must have a strong mandate which includes out-of-competition drug testing, management of the list of banned substances, research co-ordination and testing laboratory accreditation.'' Six European cities are bidding to be the host city for the new WADA. The last eighteen months has seen one drugs in sport scandal after another. In July 1998 cycling fans saw the unedifying spectacle of the French police carry out wholesale raids and arrests of Tour de France teams. Tests on riders from the TVM and Festina teams showed traces of cannabis, amphetamines, steroids, human growth hormone plus the current drug of choice, EPO (erythropoietin). It was the police and court authorities which uncovered the scandal, not the relevant sporting bodies. Shortly afterwards a Chinese woman swimmer was suspended for four years after carrying banned drugs in her luggage to the world championships in Australia. Four other Chinese swimmers got two year bans for using banned substances. The IOC, which started drug testing at the 1968 Olympics acknowledges that drug use is escalating. ``Thirty years later, it has unfortunately become clear that ...doping is spreading at terrifying rate,'' the IOC has said. Since IOC plans for the new agency were announced at the beginning of the year the IOC boss the 78 yr old Spaniard Juan Samaranch coveted the job of running WADA. But wiser counsel prevailed. Samaranch has been tainted by failing to prevent corruption in the IOC. Samaranch also metaphorically shot himself in the foot when in an interview in a Spanish newspaper he suggested the list of banned drugs should be sharply cut and punishment limited to those cases in which the athlete is physically harmed. The IOC committee has shrewdly appointed Vice Chairman Dick Pound, a Canadian lawyer to head WADA. Dick Pound ran the special investigation into last year's allegations of corruption in the IOC and has a reputation as the IOC's ``Mr Clean''. Some 10 IOC members resigned or expelled as a result of the corruption allegations earlier this year. Pound said he only wanted to the new agency only for about a year or ``until it was up and running''. The IOC has made $25m available for WADA. It has proposed life time bans and fines of up to $1m for serious offenders. But the IOC reputation for catching illegal dope users is poor. Most notoriously from the 1960s to the 1980s the East German state ran a systematic covert drug programme that allowed East German athletes, particularly swimmers pick large numbers of Olympic medals. Former East German swimming coaches were eventually prosecuted. Less than one tenth of one per cent of athletes have ever been tested positive at any Olympiad, a statistic that defies credibility when use of drugs in sport is known to be rampant. Arnold Beckett, a member of the IOC drugs team from 1968-93, has said ``Their philosophy is don't do too much, don't catch too many. Make sure not to get gold medal winners. Don't discredit your sport.'' McCaffrey may be banned WASHINGTON'S most powerful anti-drugs campaigner will be banned from the Sydney Games' venues if Australian Olympic Committee president John Coates gets his way. Barry McCaffrey arrives in Sydney today to attend an international drugs in sport conference and Coates believes he will use the talks to attack a newly created anti-doping agency set-up by the International Olympic Committee in Lausanne. McCaffrey, who is the US government's director of National Drug Control, and Coates have had a long-standing difference of opinion over who should control drug testing in sport. The documents published in The Australian newspaper claim Coates has told Olympic administrators to refuse him access to Sydney Olympic Park for press conferences and tours. ``As far as I'm concerned McCaffrey may be a four-star general but he does not even rate one star in the drugs-in-sports arena,'' Coates is reported to have said in a letter to New South Wales premier Bob Carr. Sth Korea qualify SOUTH KOREA beat Bahrain 2-1 yesterday in the last match of Group B's final Asian soccer qualifying round for next year's Sydney Olympics.  South Korea qualified for the Olympics with three wins and one draw. China, with one win, one draw and two losses, and Bahrain, with one win and three losses, failed to qualify. 
