drugs
{  
    January 06 2008 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/other-sports/why-drug-tests-must-become-par-for-the-course-26342817.html }
F OR the first time in its history, tournament golf is about to become self-regulatory on drug abuse. While the women on the LPGA Tour in the US are giving the lead with a testing regime in place at the start of this season, their male and female counterparts on both sides of the Atlantic are expected to follow suit later in the year. There is a widespread belief among golfers that such moves are over-reactive and unnecessary. But Dr Conor O'Brien, a five-handicap member of Portmarnock GC and an acknowledged expert on the subject, thinks otherwise. Does he believe there are drugs in golf? "Yes, I do," he says emphatically. "This is a pragmatic view. We have proven over the last 35 years of testing that there are drugs in sport. Every sport. And professional sport is where drug abuse has always started. Ipse dixit, there are drugs in golf." But it is acknowledged that a muscle-bound body would only inhibit the golf swing, so eliminating any advantage from anabolic steroids. And surely social drugs like cocaine couldn't be performance-enhancing? "First of all, we must acknowledge that tennis players or rugby players or golfers, are not immune from the influences of the environments from which they emerged," said Dr O'Brien. "We know that 90 per cent of golf professionals go to the gym to condition their bodies for their sport. They're improving muscle function and conditioning their heart and lung function. That's a given fact. So we must assume that these golfers who attend a gym are in the way of acquiring banned substances. It would be naive to think they wouldn't give the issue some thought. "British Medical Association research has established that 52 per cent of individuals who go to body-building gyms in the UK, have at least experimented with performance-enhancing drugs. And 12 per cent of those who go to recreational gyms have experimented with recreational drugs. "Testosterone is the most abused drug in that it builds muscles for power. But growth hormone (hGH) strips the body-fat so that your body-fat percentage becomes low. As a consequence, your power to body-weight ratio goes up dramatically. "That's the appeal of such a drug. Another drug which could help in an endurance sport such as tournament golf is erythropoietin (EPO). This is a blood-booster which would have obvious advantages if you're coming up the 72nd hole at Augusta National in the middle of April in more than 100 degrees of humidity and after four days of stress and tension. "Looking at a shot 170 yards from the flag, will you have the necessary muscle ability, the basic fitness, to hit a seven iron, or will your body suggest the safer option of cutting up a four or a five? A prize-fighter won't throw the same punches in the last round as he would in the second round. So why should golfers be different, now that power has become such a factor in their sport?" Is cocaine going to help a player in such a situation? "It can improve your performance by improving your body's fat percentage," he replied. "This would be especially true of women drug-abusers, given that 25 per cent of any woman's body is fat. So having a higher, lean-body mass to fat content will give them an advantage. Cocaine is banned under WADA rules as a stimulant." But what if people happen to be caught using cocaine simply as a social drug and with no intention of cheating? "This goes back to why we have drug-testing at all. The reason you ban drugs is to make sport safe and to stop athletes from killing themselves. Fairness comes as a by-product, all other things being equal. Incidentally, research has shown that 20 per cent of people who use cocaine, have also used performance-enhancing agents." On the Wednesday of Open Championship week at Carnoustie last July, Gary Player created quite a stir through allegations about drugs in golf. What sort of numbers was he talking about? "Well, I'd be guessing. I'd be guessing. But I think it would be -- you want me to take a guess?" Do, Gary, do. "I would say in the world tour today . . . I would say there's 10 guys taking something. I might be way out. Definitely not going to be lower but might be a hell of a lot more." You can just imagine what a sharp lawyer would make of those claims in cross-examination in a court of law. But if Player was short on specifics, he highlighted an issue which golfing authorities seemed very reluctant to confront. Even as recently as last week, Frank Hannigan, a former USGA official, suggested that nobody could have been taking performance-enhancing drugs in the 15 years from 1980 to 1995, given that the average driving statistic went from a low of 256 yards to a high of 263 yards during that period. In his view, the explosion in distance since then can be attributed to thin-faced drivers and advanced golf-ball technology, not drugs. "He's talking about tour averages over a large number of players," responded Dr O'Brien. "Clearly, not everyone is on drugs in professional golf. But it would be naive to think that nobody is on them, even if the number is small. "I have to say that looking at certain, current golfers, I'm left with a doubt regarding possible drug abuse, based purely on their physical shape. Just as I would have doubts about certain athletes." He continued: "There are exceptional individuals in golf such as Tiger Woods and John Daly who have a God-given ability to generate remarkable clubhead speed. Give them a banjo and they'd still be able to hit the ball further than most of us. "But the fundamentals in golf have changed and we must acknowledge that tournament players are now golfing athletes. Which means you're going to try and ensure that the other guy doesn't have an edge. And while drugs will not make an average golfer great, getting your muscle-function improved by a tiny amount could make a significant difference to a player's scoring average. "Golfers, in my view, are essentially addicts. The game is like a disease. And if a club player is prepared to mortgage his house for the newest magical driver, consider the temptations for a professional, with the huge sums of money at stake in tournaments these days." So, what changes did he expect to see from the introduction of drug-testing? "Where world records have become very thin on the ground in other sports after the introduction of testing, I think driving distances in golf may change," he replied. "Either way, I'm delighted golf has bitten the bullet. It shows a huge maturity in the sport and will protect it from losing credibility at the highest level. Which is what we all want." 
