drugs
{  
    December 16 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/legalise-drugs-and-put-the-criminals-out-of-business-26339072.html }
IN A letter to the Irish Times last Thursday, calling for the decriminalisation of drugs, Vincent Lavery looked for some bottle: "It would be very refreshing if just one elected official -- or for that matter, a newspaper editor -- would have the courage to start the discussion". Refreshing but not really likely. Whatever about editors, the current climate of media madness following the tragic deaths of only four people (compared with the scores of deaths from speeding) means that no politician is likely to call the for decriminalisation of drugs and risk being branded as a bleeding heart by the Daily Mail or the people who talk to Joe. That's where I come in. As a Taoiseach's appointee to Seanad Eireann, I am free to speak my mind without consulting anybody. (Surely in itself a strong argument against Seanad "reform" apart from the fact that Senators Ross, Norris, O'Toole and Bacik, all from allegedly elitist areas, are mighty bulwarks against populist bullies.) Accordingly, in the Seanad last week, the Cathaoirleach, Pat Moylan, the Leader of the House, Senator Donie Cassidy, and my fellow Senators allowed me to air the case for legalising banned drugs -- points which I hope to amplify when the Senate holds a full debate next February. And if that Senate drugs debate reaches the same high standard as the debates on the Reform Treaty and on the integration of immigrants, we will have made a difference. Meantime, let me preview some of the points I hope to make. * * * * Let me start by saying I believe that what people do in private is their own business. But if taking drugs feeds criminality, then it comes down to moral values. Here I would not tear off the tag of Christian conservative. By and large, I am more pro-life than pro-choice. I had no problem with the use of lethal force at Lusk. I favour selective detention for chronic delinquents who degrade estates like Southill. So as you can see, my conservative heart does not bleed. But even back when I was a communist, I was a conservative communist. Although I smoked the odd reefer back in the Sixties (as did Bill Clinton and Tony Blair) I gave it up after a few months because it blurred my brain, and because most of the people who smoked it were Trots with bad politics. Alas, I was not so lucky with the drug called ethyl alcohol to which I became badly addicted. After a long battle, I gave up the booze in 1987. But to show you that addictions are not life sentences, five years ago I began to take a glass of wine with meals. I am still at one glass, but watching it. All of which leads me to conclude that an addiction to cocaine might also not amount to a life sentence. Not that I would know. In fact, I suspect that my Sixties generation has little knowledge of drugs and lazily settles for dismissals and demonisations as follows. Hash is something fairly homely but best left to hippies. Heroin is a horror that happens down in Fatima Mansions. Cocaine comes somewhere between. We like to think it kills bad film directors, but we secretly suspect some who snort it win Oscars. Today I would turn down a toot based on political, moral and aesthetic attitudes. Politically, I believe the Provisional IRA are taking a cut from the drug gangs. Morally, I believe criminal dealers should be locked up rather than looked up. Aesthetically, I do not want to do business with a dealer called Derek. Let me do the moral tots. First, I pity poor people who take crack. Second, I despise rich yuppies who take cocaine. But my real rage is reserved for the ruthless criminal gangs who make millions from the trade in Ireland and billions from the trade internationally. How do they make their money? By dealing in drugs. Why are drugs worth so much money? Because they are illegal. From that follows all that follows. * * * * Although alcohol is a drug, nobody in Ireland has been shot in the head because they deal in alcohol. By contrast, almost every murder in the past few years has been connected to cocaine and other banned drugs. Common sense tells us there is a close connection between making a drug illegal and the rise in the murder rate. Prohibition in America proved that connection. Murder rates rose after the First World War -- as they do briefly after all wars -- reached a peak in 1933 and then fell until the Second World War. What happened in 1933? Prohibition was ended. But by then the damage was done and the USA was umbilically tied to the Mafia -- just as cocaine dealers in Dublin today are tied into respectable people in RTE, Leinster House and the IFSC. And it got worse after Richard Nixon declared war on drugs which is now well lost. Given the grim example of America, why do we continue to pretend that the prohibition of drugs is not the primary cause of criminality? Common sense tells us that if we cut the connection between drugs and crime -- by making drugs legal or regulating them in some fashion -- then the gangs would go out of business. Decriminalising drugs means accepting a degree of addiction. But the sale of addictive substances would be controlled by the State at prices pitched to put the criminals out of business. So while Katy French would still have had a drug problem, she would not have had to seek out a squalid drug dealer to secure her supply. Be clear I am not calling for drugs to be decriminalised without a long and detailed debate in Dail and Seanad and in the national media. (Meantime the Garda must continue to crack down on the criminal gangs.) Be clear I also accept that any debate is reined in by two realities. First, Ireland alone cannot decriminalise drugs without becoming a haven for addicts. Any radical reversal of policy would have to take place across the entire European Union. Second, decriminalising drugs may not deliver us from all evil. Chemical substances, like crystal meth to which the Taoiseach referred last week, would still have to be banned. So it would be wise to decriminalise only for a defined period and to review the position continually. But what we can't do is continue to chase our tails around the same circular track: crackdowns squeezing supply and consequent scarcity driving the price up, thus creating bigger profits for criminal gangs who naturally become more ruthless and murder more casually. I rest my case. * * * * PS. Although she has not whinged about it, apologies to Sadhbh McCarthy, who should have got the credit for defending the Taoiseach on Newstalk and did not because culchies like me can't distinguish between one dulcet Dublin accent and another. Could radio presenters please regularly reintroduce their panel guests by name, particularly if they are all speaking Dort.? 
