drugs
{  
    November 20 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/braypeople/news/susana-teaches-teens-the-dangers-of-drugs-27610694.html }
'Can you drink alcohol when you are on medication?' and 'Is it true that ecstasy tablets aren't as strong anymore?' are typical questions that Susana Nunez-Rubio is asked regularly by the youth of Bray. Susana is the local Drugs Education and Prevention Officer, based in Bray Youth Service, a regional office of Catholic Youth Care. This week is one of Susana's busiest, as it's Bray Drugs Awareness week, which is about raising awareness around drugs and drug-related issues that affect local young people and the wider community of Bray. For someone who's not even from Bray, Susana has pumped alot of her time and energy into the local community. Apart from her day job she volunteers with two local youth clubs, Celtic Youth Bray and Oasis. She also teaches Spanish evening classes. After finishing college in Spain eight years ago, Susana came on holiday from her home city of Pamplona (famous for the running of the bulls festival) to Ireland. She extended her holiday and has lived in Bray ever since. Susana got her Higher Diploma in Education from UCD and found it difficult to get permanent work as a secondary school teacher. She ended up in Bray Youthreach, then the Youth Information Centre, then Bray Youth Service. Opportunity 'I always had a huge interest in working with young people outside the school setting. It was a huge opportunity for me as I took the job with the Youth Information Centre. And I was there for about three years and then this job came up.' Susana's job as drugs education and prevention officer was created when funding came through in August 2002 but Bray Youth Service would have been involved in drugs awareness training before then, she said. The job 'was a great opportunity to be more fully involved with young people,' she remarks. The funding for her Bray Youth Service-based job was applied for by the Bray Drugs Awareness Forum and comes from the local Drugs Task Force. 'The work that I do can be divided into two different elements. One is the work I do for the Drug Awareness Forum itself. I am the resource worker - basically what that entails is to organise events, to come up with new ideas, sometimes to facilitate or organise training for the community We also work closely with parents.' Parents, she says, sometimes get in contact with queries or just to talk to someone or express their opinion on something. The Drug Awareness Week, which runs this week, is the highlight of her work. The other element of her work is the day-to-day work running drugs education and awareness programmes for sixth class pupils in primary schools, for secondary schools and youth clubs. Susana has a part-time colleague working with her on drugs awareness and prevention programmes and has the foundations of Rosemary Yeates, Maire Therese Kennan O'Dowd and Garda Noel Kinsella's efforts in setting up the forum in a decade ago, to work on. Forum The drugs awareness forum has been running since 1992 and Susana says 'there was huge work done before I got here and there was very successful work. In a sense it was easy to pick up from that.' The drugs education side of her job has been going slower, she explains, because they are trying to develop programmes for secondary schools and youth clubs; primary schools had been their focus before. 'So far it's been very successful. When I say it's very successful I mean we are usually inundated by offers of 'can you come to our school?' The fact is as it is, we are stretched to our maximum. We don't have even enough staff to provide what we're asked for. By the time the new school year starts we're usually booked up until Easter.' Drugs awareness programmes only starts from sixth class up and the programmes are six weeks long for an hour a week, 'so we get to build up a little bit of a relationship with them'. Some students drop into Susana even when the programme is long finished and she can provide answers to their questions. 'Sixth class is an easy time to introduce it because of the bigger step they are going to make and they are aware themselves that they are going to make the step into secondary school. they are full of doubts, they are full of queries. they are full of questions. they are very eager to know and find out what's cool and what's not cool.' What is classified as a drug? When explaining drugs to young people, Susana says 'we follow the definitions set by the Health promotion Unit in the Department of Health. A drug would be a chemical substance that affects your body and mind.' 'So from there we ask them what is a drug? They normally come up with cocaine, heroin, hash. They come up with about 50 names of the same drug. They'll come up with what they usually call the bad drugs or the hard drugs. But they'll never say to you Coca Cola or tea or coffee or alcohol even. They are aware of the whole area of cigarettes and smoke and so on because of the ads. But alcohol they don't see a problem with it normally. I'm talking about the age group of 11 or 12.' The scare-factor is not used in educating teenagers about drugs, says Susana, 'because if you're going to try and scare a teenager do you know what's going to happen, they're going to think 'yeah cool yeah. 'Tell a teenager 'don't jump out of that window' and they'll say they saw it in Jackass, it's the best thing ever. The scare factor just doesn't work.' 
