drugs
{  
    June 30 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/a-drug-dealer-in-a-good-suit-is-still-a-murderer-26249445.html }
Five years on, what is Veronica's real legacy? Her brother Jimmy Guerin met the people at the coalface of the drugs  scourge IN AN EFFORT to find out if things had improved since Veronica's death and to try and identify her legacy, I decided to talk to people directly involved in drugs and I was both shocked and saddened by what I found. I started with a meeting in the Library Bar in Jurys Hotel in Ballsbridge, with a businessman who lives in south Co Dublin. He lives in a modest house with his wife. He is self-employed and she works for a company in town. As I waited, I observed the mix of people and compared the fun being enjoyed by tourists to the serious goings-on at other tables. I wondered if the person I was meeting would fit in. He arrived at the appointed time and looked every inch the successful businessman who was obviously reaping the benefits of the Celtic Tiger. He was extremely well groomed, dressed in a navy suit, and he came across as a perfect gentleman. I greeted him and we started with smalltalk about the person whom we both knew who had arranged the meeting for me. And then we discussed business, his business. He told me he was making £30,000 to £40,000 per week, depending on trade. His business was drugs. He sold both cannabis and cocaine. He repeated this a number of times during our conversation, stressing that he would not do hard drugs. His choice of words, not mine. I asked if he was concerned about the CAB; he shrugged and said, "No." He does not display his wealth in a vulgar fashion, as did his predecessors, nor does he drive a flashy car or carry on in a way which would bring him to the attention of the police. He has been in trouble only twice one conviction, one acquittal and has never served time. He told me he invests his money in property in Spain, Portugal and now the States. He is involved in legitimate businesses with people who have no idea he is involved with drugs. He seems to move in all the right circles. He will continue in drugs for a few more years only, then enjoy the profits from his legitimate investments. So, folks, welcome to the new breed of drug dealer. The John Gilligans have not gone away; they've just got smarter, better dressed and more part of mainstream Ireland. A WEEK later, I met a man who had been involved in the Concerned Parents movement and he kindly agreed to show me the areas that have been and continue to be affected by drugs in the inner city. We headed up Railway Street and he pointed out the various complexes which had been destroyed by dealers before the residents marched and took back the area for the people. We walked to a block of flats and climbed the stairs. As we looked out from the top of the flats, he spoke with great delight at the investment in the area and pointed out the new housing that was being built, and the flats that were being refurbished as a result of the £300m that was being invested. He feared that if the drug problem was not tackled and the area cleaned and policed properly, the improvements would be lost. We looked at the posters on the walls names and pictures of alleged dealers the posters listed as being wanted for murder. The man I was talking to is actively involved in this area, working with the people on a daily basis, and he is at pains to say that the drug problem in the neighbourhood is worse than ever before. He thinks that mini-CABs should be set up in each police station to tackle the middlemen who are making thousands each week as they peddle their death to the innocent young victims. As we looked out over the area known in old days as "the Monto", he compared the march led on the brothels in 1925 by Frank Duff and the Legion of Mary to the anti-drugs marches in the Nineties. The descendants of 1925 did the same as their forefathers in cleaning up their neighbourhood, which was being abused by the greed of a few people. The man was concerned that a fear factor was preventing people from looking for more policing, more action, and a greater crackdown on the pushers. The new breed of pusher is much more organised and more vicious than before, he said. As we passed Sean McDermott Street Church, he recalled the many young people who had been buried as a result of drugs; the number he personally knew was frightening. It was an education on how drugs devastate an area and its people. Our next stop was the former site of the Magdalen Laundries, a place that struck fear into people in years gone by. Now it is home to the Crinan Project, which was set up to help young people in the area who have problems with drugs. The facilities were donated by the Sisters of Charity and the project is funded by the Eastern Regional Health Authority. It has helped many young people to cope with their drug problem, overcome their addiction and move on to jobs and start families of their own. There are currently about 25 people attending the centre and they range in age from 15 to 21. I met Denis Kinlan at the centre he is a former Concerned Parent. Denis explained that things have not improved and that there are still huge amounts of drugs being dealt in this area. He points out that the problem is not only confined to the inner city, but is countrywide, and he feels that not enough is being done to tackle the dealers. He points out that children who pass through his centre face the temptation of drugs everywhere they go and some can fall back into the habit that they have worked so hard to beat. The kids play table tennis, listen to music and have wonderful facilities at the Crinan Centre. But they also have more: they have a staff who care and want to help them. The passion shown by the people working there was the first encouraging sign I came across that day. The person in charge of the centre talked of the difference in support that has developed since Veronica was shot. There is a greater awareness of the problems being faced and that results in more support from the various State agencies. We left there and headed down to the ICON Centre, which is situated opposite the Five Lamps. Here I met the co-ordinator of the centre, Joe Dowling. The centre provides a community-based information, support, referral and advocacy service for individuals and their families affected by drug use and addiction. Joe Dowling is a wonderful man who does a huge amount for people and speaks passionately about his clients as if they were his own family members. Joe, like Denis in the Crinan project, knows what he is dealing with. On the wall in Joe's office, there is a collage of pictures which tell the whole story of drugs in the inner city. Both tragedy and hope are all over Joe's wall and, as he recounts the detail of each picture, one has mixed emotions: first sadness, then encouragement. As I was there, the centre began to fill up with Joe's clients and he introduced me to some of them. I spoke with one mother who had her daughter with her, a beautiful girl of about 19 who was a recovering addict. She was clean and was on methadone. Her mother showed me the medication which she had just collected; she does this twice a week while supervising on a daily basis the doses the girl requires. She then pointed to a picture on Joe's wall, a large copy of a photo; it was her son who had committed suicide some months earlier. As she spoke about her son, I could feel her loss. She said drug dealers had killed her son. "Why jail them," she asked, "when they could be shot?" Everyone in the room agreed with her. This woman displayed character and strength that most of us can only think about. She had buried her son, was fighting to keep her daughter clean and actively involves herself in helping others stay away from drugs. Each of the people I met recounted their own story how they had lost a loved one, how they had a child who was an addict. These people have suffered more than those of us who have not been affected by drug abuse are capable of imagining. I met another lady whose picture was on the wall. She pointed it out to me and I admired the beautiful baby in her arms. Joe intervened and told me that the baby was actually dead in the picture. He recalled how he lifted the baby from the mother's arms that day and placed the child in a baby's coffin. I felt a lump in my throat and was shocked and saddened. Now I could understand why all these people wanted drug dealers shot. I spoke with the mother in the picture and she told a chilling and terrifying story. A major drug dealer introduced her to heroin at 11. She recalled the many countries that she visited as a mule for him. She wasn't capable of remembering the sights from these countries, but could recall the large houses and the obvious wealth that these drug dealers had. She spoke of how the dealer drugged women of means and blackmailed them after subjecting them to sexual acts and filming them. She assisted at the age of 11 in deceiving these women just to get a fix to feed her habit. I was speechless as she recalled the various activities of this dealer and told of the scars to her body from the times she was mixed up with this animal. This lady is now five years clean and she thanks Joe Dowling for that, as do all the clients present that day. Joe confirms what Denis and Valerie had said in the Crinan that as a result of Veronica's death, there is more support for centres such as ICON. That is something that Veronica's family and colleagues can be, and should be, extremely proud of. Two days later I contacted the gardaí and discussed in great detail what I had come across from Jurys to the ICON Centre. The inspector I spoke to tells it as it is, which is just as frightening as what I encountered before. The position as he sees it is as follows. Following Veronica's murder in 1996, various pieces of legislation were introduced. The CAB was set up, and seven-day detention for suspected drug dealers was legislated for. There was now a way to target the assets of drug dealers. Most of the major players fled the country and liquidated their assets, moving them offshore both into property and foreign accounts. When Gilligan was arrested there was a gap in the market for supplies and not one major player emerged, but several. They saw an opportunity to import the drugs directly into the State themselves and sell to dealers who had been previously been supplied by Gilligan's gang. A battle ensued as people tried to claim particular patches for themselves and, in 1998 alone, there were eight drug-related murders as the market was divided up. I told the inspector about the money the person I had met was making and he confirmed that if a person invested £200,000 in drugs today, he could turn that into £2m in one year. This confirmed the figures I'd heard in Jurys. The inspector said that, unfortunately, the trials of the Gilligan gang had educated the new dealers and they now laundered their proceeds and did not allow themselves to be caught out with mobiles registered to them. He also confirmed that they no longer display their wealth in a vulgar fashion and therefore are harder to detect. He said that they are no longer hoarding large amounts of cash, instead investing it before the arrival of the euro, when the existing currency will become useless. The inspector accepts that larger amounts of drugs are coming in than ever before. He said that when the gardaí seized 250,000 ecstasy tablets, it did not even make a blip in the market or change the drug's price that weekend. He explained the fear factor that exists in communities, citing the number of seizures that include firearms. People know this and they are afraid that the dealers will use them to protect their business. When I put it to him that things have disimproved terribly, he suggested that nowadays young people have too much money and are experimenting with drugs when they go clubbing. He told me of the "party pack" which is now widely available in Dublin: for £40 you get two ecstasy tabs and a small amount of heroin to bring you down after a night out. The problem is that the people who use this usually end up addicted to the heroin, which then becomes their major drug. The inspector cited the success of our economy and the fact that so many more people are in gainful employment as having creating a much wider market, and said that this was reflected in the increased seizures. He thinks that things would be even worse if it were not for the legislation that followed Veronica's death. He also confirmed everything I had learned while talking to the people I met relating to this issue. But going back to the ICON Centre, as I was saying goodbye, the mother who had recently lost her son told me she visited Veronica's grave every time she went out to her son's grave in Dardistown. He is buried behind Veronica, and she always goes to Veronica's grave because she feels she was a woman who lost her life while trying to save her son's life, and all the lives of the young people who are being killed by the evil of drugs. And I thought to myself, "What greater legacy could she have asked for?" 
