drugs
{ Aidan  O'Connor 
    August 03 2009 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/tough-new-powers-for-gardai-in-crackdown-on-drug-drivers-26555641.html }
DRUG users who sit behind the wheel will be targeted under tough new laws due to come into effect next month. The Government's National Drugs Strategy contains plans to introduce laws for random drug-driving tests as well as laws that make driving under the influence of drugs an offence, the Irish Independent has learned. The clampdown comes in the wake of mounting pressure to deal with the increasing number of drivers who get behind the wheel while under the influence of drugs. The number of drug-driving offences up to March this year (711) was more than double the figure for the previous year. The junior minister with responsibility for the new drugs strategy, John Curran, has listed drug-driving as one of 60 key actions to tackle substance- use, including alcohol. But responsibility for changing the laws in relation to drug- driving ultimately lies with Transport Minister Noel Dempsey. At the moment, there is no specific offence of driving while under the influence of drugs. Gardai rely on an old law of driving under the influence of an intoxicant to bring suspected drug drivers before the courts.  Breathalyser Unlike a breathalyser used to test for the presence of alcohol on the roadside, gardai do not have a device to test for drugs. There is also no legislation to allow gardai to randomly test a driver they suspect is under the influence of drugs. While the number of drug- driving offences and prosecutions has risen significantly in recent years, gardai say the figure would be far higher if laws and equipment to deal with drug drivers were introduced. Under the proposals -- approved by the Cabinet last month -- the Department of Transport and the Road Safety Authority will be asked to examine legislation that will allow for new equipment to be given to gardai. Laws will also be introduced for random testing that will allow gardai to test a driver for drugs without having a reason to believe they are under the influence of a controlled substance. The drugs strategy also wants gardai, doctors and nurses who deal with drug-drivers to receive special training. Mr Dempsey is due to publish a new Road Traffic Bill later this year which includes provisions for "field impairment testing" that will give gardai powers to make a preliminary assessment about the presence of drugs, without having to use any specific device. Fine Gael, meanwhile, says it will back any plans to introduce drug-driving laws. Community Affairs spokesman Michael Ring said that if Mr Dempsey was serious about saving lives, he would ensure the Road Traffic Bill was amended with a provision to include random drug-testing.  Unenforced "Countless recommendations under the last drugs strategy were simply not implemented and remained as suggestions, unenforced. "There is a pressing need for a stronger, more immediate approach to this issue. The lives of our road users depend on it," Mr Ring said. 
