drugs
{  
    July 25 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/new-hope-offered-to-recovering-drug-users-in-town-26906040.html }
The services which has received funding from the Regional Drugs Task Force, has been set up by Nora Donaghy and Marian Sloan who both have extensive experience in the area of drug counselling in Northern Ireland. Having identified the need for a service providing aftercare to drug users in a non-residential setting in Dundalk, they established TURAS Counselling Services at 59 The services which has received funding from the Regional Drugs Task Force, has been set up by Nora Donaghy and Marian Sloan who both have extensive experience in the area of drug counselling in Northern Ireland. Having identified the need for a service providing aftercare to drug users in a non-residential setting in Dundalk, they established TURAS Counselling Services at 59 Clanbrassil Street. “We were aware that there was no other community based service in the voluntary sector specifically for recovering drug users being run in the Dundalk area,” explains Marian. “We took a year out of work to develop a 20 week programme for recovering drug users.” The programme will be based on group work and personal development underpinned with individual counselling, she continues. It is aimed at reintegrating former drug users back into society, family and communities through restoring independence, self-esteem and self-direction. TURAS Counselling Services have already built up links with those working in the area of drug prevention and treatment in Dundalk. Referral will be taken from the HSE Drug Addiction Services, GPs, community groups, other statutory services and self referrals from recovering drug users themselves. Those accepted onto the programme will be expected to be drug-free for a period of there months and over or those who have been stabilised on the methadone maintenance treatment programme for a period of three months. Participants will attend the group sessions three days a week which will help introduce structure and focus back into their daily lives. Through developing life skills and the building of self esteem the participants will be supported to integrate back into their communities. Drug users get a lot of bad press which dehumanises the individual but it’s very important that they are seen as human beings full of potential, says Marian. Our programme is about accepting people, supporting them and helping them to explore their potential and through encouraging the belief that change is possible and with the appropriate supports can be maintained. Nora states that workshops will be delivered on topics such as anger management, stress and relaxation, assertiveness / effective communication, conflict management, social skills, suicide and self harm, substance awareness and relapse management / prevention. TURAS is also developing advocacy links with community and training agencies so that clients can assess further education and employment opportunities. While drug abuse can be prevalent in areas of social deprivation she stresses that it’s a problem that crosses all social boundaries. Participants will be encouraged to look for support from within their families and communities. In supporting recovering drug users TURAS will also be supporting families as both Nora and Marian state that dealing with a family member who has a drug problem can be a very frightening experience for them. Families experience a huge amount of distress and can feel frightened, vulnerable and isolated. By offering recovering drug users the opportunity to work with the issues which may have contributed to their addiction in the first place and by supporting and encouraging them to live drug free it is hoped to reduce the numbers relapsing back into drug use. By offering this 20 week intensive period of support we hope to help reduce the incidences of drug relapses. TURAS Counselling Service can be contacted at 59 Clanbrassil Street, Dundalk – tel 042 9338221 or 042 9338224 
