drugs
{ Simon Barnes 
    July 30 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/athletics-questions-for-sport-as-gatlin-gunned-down-26376999.html }
BEN JOHNSON responded to the news that Justin Gatlin had failed a dope test in his own uncompromising fashion. He said that no one cares about who took what: all people want to see is how fast the human body can go. It is a fascinating point, and it is not too much to say that the future of sport depends on its resolution. Gatlin is the world and Olympic 100m champion, the fastest man on Earth. He shares the world record of 9.77 seconds - two spots faster than Johnson - with Asafa Powell. Now he has failed a dope test and his entire life's work is in question. Drug-addled The news broke a couple of days after Floyd Landis, the winner of the Tour de France, also failed a drugs test. These two immensely high-profile busts seem to offer sport a stark choice. Do we give up on the drug-addled sports? Or do we give up on drug-testing? There doesn't seem to be a third option. It is 18 years since Johnson tested positive after winning the 100m at the Olympic Games in Seoul. After that landmark event, what has happened to athletics? And what has happened to all sports that reward the drug-taker? Optimists felt that the Johnson bust would shock sport and athletes into honesty: if Johnson gets caught, then surely anybody who even sniffs at a steroid is vulnerable. But instead, one champion after another has been found guilty. Much of sport has become an arms race between testers and testees. With every positive test, you wonder how many more got away with something. Athletics, swimming, weightlifting, cycling: the vulnerable sports are becoming untenable. Unless, of course, we do an about-face. Unless, of course, we agree with Johnson: let all athletes strive for ultimate performance, at whatever cost to mind, body, lifestyle and life expectancy. If Landis and Gatlin can be found positive in the same week, then drug-testing has failed to work as a deterrent. If we want high-level sport, then we must accept that drug-taking is an essential part of the modern game. After all, many aspects of sport were once considered unacceptable and are now part of the game. Once, training at all was considered ungentlemanly, a kind of cheating. The achievements of the Chariots of Fire athlete, Harold Abrahams, were considered unacceptable by some because he worked with a professional coach, Sam Mussabini. Modern footballers dive, modern cricketers don't walk when clearly out. Is drug-taking nothing more than sport's next ethical frontier? In the US, baseball goes from strength to strength despite the incidence of drugs. One great hitter after another has been implicated. Is the only problem with athletics and cycling our own squeamishness? For we are clearly getting to the position when either we accept the drugs or we reject the sport. This is true despite the fact that no failed drugs test would ever give us cause for surprise, and no excuse (or reason) for failure would ever be believed. We have reached that stage: where next? The crucial question is whether or not we are prepared to accept a druggy free-for-all in sport. After all, most of us accept the drugs in our own life, our own performance-enhancers, life-improvers, discomfort-removers: caffeine, alcohol, aspirin, maybe others too. Carl Lewis said there would never be drugs-free sport until we get a drugs-free society, and few people, it seems, want that. Bad publicity There is some sense in which sport must wish it had never begun to test for drugs. The attempt to rid sport of drugs has been a failure and has led to nothing but bad publicity. But my deep feeling about this complex issue is that the war on drugs in sport - almost as expensive, cumbersome and self-destructive as a real war - is that it is not driven by sport but by sport's audience. We who watch instinctively reject performances aided by drugs. We - the paying audience - feel there is something wrong about drugs. It's not just that drugs are bad for you, it's not just that drugs are against the rules. Far more important is the fact that drug-fuelled sport is not interesting. We watch sport because we identify with the performers. Because they are, in some important way, like ourselves, super versions of us. But a performer who takes drugs is - so it seems to those of us who watch - setting aside his humanity. In seeking to be more than human, he becomes less human. Less like one of us. Less like someone whose story we want to hear, whose deeds we want to witness, whose triumphs we wish to cheer, whose disappointments we wish to weep for. Drugs reduce the human content in sport and without its humanity, sport is the most colossal waste of time. (© The Times, London) 
