drugs
{  
    February 18 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/pregnant-woman-and-partner-in-court-on-2200-drugs-charges-27121389.html }
The seizure of £2,200 worth of drugs by Gardai from a flat in Drogheda led to the appearance of a 20-year-old pregnant woman and her partner at The seizure of £2,200 worth of drugs by Gardai from a flat in Drogheda led to the appearance of a 20-year-old pregnant woman and her partner at Dundalk Circuit Court. Lorna Breen pleaded guilty to charges of possession, and possession for the purpose of supply. Judge Groarke adjourned sentence, and remanded the accused on bail The Court was told by Garda Liam Hogan that he engaged in a search on February 13 last of the flat at West Street, Drogheda where the accused resided. People had been observed coming and going to the flat during surveillance. On entering the sitting room a co-accused was seated at a table. There were bags placed on and underneath the table comprising white tablets and white powder and a green brown substance, all of which he took possession. On the television there was a large amount of £20 notes and a wallet, and cash amounting to over £600. A green brown substance was located in a bedroom where the accused was located. The court was told that the accused had no previous convictions, and was due to give birth in February. She was from a most respectable background. Barrister Kevin Segrave said the accused did some au pair work in Spain when she left school. When she returned she became involved in the activity for which she was before the court. She didn’t push drugs. Garda Hogan conceded that she was influenced by others. Mr. Segrave said she took ecstasy prior to her pregnancy, but since then hadn’t gone near drugs. He said that her pregnancy and her apprehension had a very serious effect on her, and she was determined to stay away from drugs. Judge Groarke remarked that the drug concerned was ecstasy, and it was quite clear from the evidence that the accused and her partner were involved in dealing in drugs. The quantity of drugs and the description of the various types of drugs and the layout of the various items found in the apartment, suggested quite a business was taking place. The accused was fully involved in the distribution of the drugs. In the ordinary way he would have no hesitation in jailing her, but the interest of her child was uppermost in his mind. He adjourned sentence to June, and requested a probation and welfare report on the accused. Mark Smith, the co-accused and her partner, was jailed for four years when he pleaded guilty at the court the following week to having possession of ecstasy with intent to supply, and to three years imprisonment for having possession of speed. Gda. Horan told the court that when he entered the flat he saw Smith sitting in the sitting room in front of table on which he found a bag of white tables, a bag of white powder and a bag of green substance. There was also a bag of tablets under the table. The tablets were ecstasy and the powder speed. He saw a large amount of £20 notes and also found a wallet containing £20. In all there was £635 cash in the apartment. The search of the flat continued for about 25 minutes and during that time Smith’s mobile phone rang on a number of occasions, with people looking for Mark. A number of people also called to the flat looking for him. The defendant was detained and taken to Drogheda Garda Station and made a statement in which he admitted having the ecstasy for supply and the speed for his own use. He said that a Dundalk person was staying in the box room in the apartment. He had been selling E tabs for the previous month. When someone rang the buzzer to the apartment, he would throw the key down if he knew them and they would come up to the flat. If he didn’t know them he would go down and give them the drugs. He was selling 150 tablets over a weekend, making a £300 profit. On this weekend he had got double the usual amount and was hoping to make £600 profit which he intended to use to go on holidays. He had sold 50 tablets the previous night. The money on the tv and in the wallet was from the sale of drugs. The speed and grass were for his own use. Cross-examined by Mr. Donagh McDonough BL, Gda Horan agreed that Smith would have used the proceeds for the sale of drugs to supply his own habit and that the manner in which he was operating was naive. He had no previous convictions and hadn’t been involved with a “bad” crowd since the incident. Gda Horan also agreed that Smith wasn’t a hardened criminal. Mr. McDonough said Smith came from a decent family, none of whom had been in trouble. He was in a stable relationship with his girlfriend, who had given birth to their baby since her court appearance the previous week. He was still using drugs and had become involved in selling them to feed his habit. He had only been involved in selling them for a relatively short period of time. Imposing sentence Judge Groarke said he was satisfied that Smith was ‘engaged in a very serious way in drug pushing in the town of Drogheda in February 1999’ and had quite a business going on. What Gardai had found was ‘a regular drug den’ and while some people might view Ecstasy as a harmless recreational drug, this had not been borne out by scientific study which showed it to be the gateway to other drugs. He accepted that Smith had been an easy target and had become involved in the sale and supply of drugs to feed his own addiction. That was the explanation for his conduct as his family were a respectable group of people. He was, he continued, always a tragic state of affairs to when a family comes to court to see one of their own in the dock for sentence, especially when the offence was pushing drugs. He said he would review the case in 18 months time and he hoped the defendant would be able to convince him that he had overcome his drug habit. He directed that a urine analysis report be furnished to the court when the case comes for review and he would also require a report on the deft from the prison authorities as he was anxious to see what use he makes of the education facilities within the prison. He also ordered the preparation of a Probation and Welfare Report. 
