drugs
{  
    January 08 2008 03:36 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/gardai-tackling-problem-27478789.html }
GARDAê IN New Ross say they are doing everything they possibly can to combat the drugs problem in the town and are appealing to people, who feel they have problems with drugs, to seek help.According to the Gardaí, the drugs problem in the town hasn't gotten worse and New Ross has the same problem with drugs as any town of its size. GARDAê IN New Ross say they are doing everything they possibly can to combat the drugs problem in the town and are appealing to people, who feel they have problems with drugs, to seek help. According to the Gardaí, the drugs problem in the town hasn't gotten worse and New Ross has the same problem with drugs as any town of its size. Drugs are there. They are available and open to any person in society. The drugs problem in New Ross is the same as any town of its size. I wouldn't say the drugs problem is getting worse there is more money around at the moment,' said a spokesperson for New Ross Garda Station, who added that local Gardaí made two very significant seizures in the last two years.' The predominant drug is cannabis and a certain amount of ecstasy and we have had seizures of cocaine and speed as well,' said the Garda, who explained that even though all duty members of the local Gardaí are aware and alert for drug dealings, there are full-time members at New Ross Garda Station who just concentrate on drugs and drugs investigations. However, by their nature drugs investigations are labour intensive and time consuming as the Gardaí have to have a significant body of evidence before they can act. By its nature any drugs investigation is time consuming,' said the spokesperson. According to the Gardaí education in both Primary and Secondary schools, together with the work of the Juvenile Liaison Officer, who is constantly dealing with schools, are two key elements to deterring youths from using or experimenting with drugs. Education is the biggest route we have to to take and we have to show that it is not cool to take drugs. 99 per cent of kids today are decent kids but it has to be shown to them that drug use is not cool,' added the Garda. We don't want to see children with convictions for drugs, that is why we go down the route of the Juvenile Liaison Officer in schools because every kid needs a chance,' said the Garda. Rather than bring people before the Courts for drug offences, the Gardaí want to tackle drugs problems with individuals earlier rather than later. The Gardaí are here to help. People who have problems can speak to us in total confidence. We appreciate that people are afraid but we want to send out a message that we are here to help,' said the spokesperson. We want to be seen to help rather than bringing people to court. Parents can feel free to call in and see us so we can get in at the problem early rather than letting it grow. Early detection is key,' said the spokesperson. 
