drugs
{  
    August 14 2007 08:20 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/amy-dont-become-a-car-crash-rock-star-26438803.html }
Oh Amy, Amy. It doesn't have to be this way. No one wants to see your pale, hollow face staring blankly from the covers of the tabloids, your thread-like body barely able to support the jet black beehive atop your head, your arms – already criss-crossed with tattoos – now branded with cuts. No one wants to read stories that tell lurid tales of collapse from suspected drugs overdoses, of your new husband dragging you into the A&E department of London's University College Hospital to have your stomach pumped. Yet, few will have been shocked to read that 23-year-old pop star Amy Winehouse ended up in hospital last week. She is now as infamous for her alcohol and alleged drug abuse as she is for her sultry retro-soul music – perhaps even more so. It would be easy to say that she doesn't need to indulge in substance abuse to give herself an edge, to make herself seem more interesting, dark, sexy: her voice, unique and arresting, is all she needs. But for some, it seems, that rock 'n' roll is never enough. When she manages to turn up to gigs (she has a habit of cancelling or simply failing to show) and if she can keep her cool (some reports say she spat at fans at a recent Eden Project concert in Cornwall), Winehouse has not only the talent but also the charisma to be a huge international star. Hours before her collapse, she was nominated in three categories at the MTV Video Music Awards. Last month. she was nominated for the Mercury Music Prize for last year's album Back to Black and quickly became the bookmakers' favourite. Yet, I fear that unless last week's collapse delivers the wake-up call she desperately needs, Winehouse is in danger of becoming the kind of carcrash pop star that everyone looks at and then forgets to listen to. She won't by any means be the first. I interviewed Courtney Love several times in the early Nineties for my book Grrrls: Viva Rock Divas and now, in retrospect, I can see that she was spending so much time acting out her notion of a rock star – the famous husband, the lifestyle, the drugs, the tabloid headlines – that for much of it, she seemed to forget about the actual music. Now, after only two albums – the first, Frank, was released when she was just 19 and was not only nominated for a Mercury but also an Ivor Novello award – Winehouse is in danger of losing sight of what made her want to be a star in the first place. Much is made of her background as a working-class north-London Jewish girl with a taxi-driving father and a pharmacist mother, but she also has music soaring through her blood: her paternal grandmother dated Ronnie Scott in the Forties, while her father played her all the great American jazz singers when she was a child. It is unclear exactly when things started to go wrong. Perhaps it was actually when things started to go right. At 16, she was singing with a jazz band and the National Youth Jazz Orchestra; soon afterwards, she was signed up by 19 Entertainment, the company run by Pop Idol's Simon Fuller. Since then, her star may have been firmly in the ascendant but her turbulent love life, combined with an addictive personality, has always dragged her down. Around the time of the release of Back to Black, she talked of splitting up with her then-boyfriend, Blake Fielder-Civil, a runner at a production company, and of her life falling apart. She freely admitted that she started thinking about alcohol the minute she woke up. She smoked too much cannabis. She seemed to think that her broken heart made her excessive behaviour acceptable. “I've been to a couple of rehabilitation centres before, whether it be for not eating properly or drinking,'' she said. “Everyone there just wants to talk about themselves all the time.'' She told the man in charge that she'd admitted herself “because I'm drinking a lot, but I'm in love, and the drinking is symptomatic of my depression. I'm not an alcoholic.'' She is, by her own admission, obsessive; she freely admits to having “an addictive personality''. She clearly has weight issues although talk is never of anorexia or bulimia but of manic gym visits and forgetting to eat. She is apparently clinically diagnosed as being manic depressive but takes no medication. Now married to Fielder-Civil – they eloped to Miami in May – Winehouse seems even more unsettled. In the July issue of American music magazine Spin, Winehouse is described as being like a Sid Vicious to Fielder-Civil's Nancy. Of course, Winehouse's erratic, self-abusing, self-loathing world is one more familiar to male rock stars. Pete Doherty's relentless drug abuse has granted him near-legendary status: he can write poetry on the walls in blood and everyone thinks he's cool; he can be in possession of class-A drugs yet avoid lengthy prison sentences; he can date the hottest model, apparently take drugs with her and only make her more desirable. He is, apparently, a bona fide pop star following in the footsteps of other great male pop stars, from Jimi Hendrix to Jim Morrison to Kurt Cobain, whose image has merely been enhanced by seedy tales of drug taking. Few female rock stars have died from drugs or drink. Apart from Billie Holiday, who was seduced by heroin and alcohol and died of liver trouble and a heart attack in 1959 at the age of 44, the most famous female abuser is Janis Joplin, who talked of herself as having “the biggest balls'' in her all-male band, and who accidentally injected a lethal dose of pure heroin into her body at her motel room in 1970, aged 27. Other women may have addictions – although now claiming to be clean, Courtney Love was once described as “the most controversial woman in the history of rock'' by Rolling Stone magazine and has endless problems with both heroin and prescription drugs, the latter leading to her losing custody of her daughter in 2005 and being given a court order to go into rehab – but they are rarely on the scale of men's. Perhaps because of this – and perhaps because it's always easier and somehow more socially acceptable for men to misbehave – women who get seduced by drugs always quickly find themselves centre stage. When Cerys Matthews, formerly of Welsh pop group Catatonia, tried to make a comeback with a solo album last autumn, she found that journalists were only interested in her drugs hell of the mid to late Nineties, in the period she took to wearing a necklace in the shape of a penis and a T-shirt that claimed she was a: “Fast Rising Lager Soaked Riproaring Pop Tart''. Interviewing Cerys last autumn, I found her visibly tense when asked about her alcohol and drugs excesses. Married with children, she no longer felt the need to revisit her past: “Let's talk about music. The album. Songwriting. All the things no one ever asks me about.'' I asked if she would have had alcohol and drugs problems had she not been a pop star. “The whole thing that makes me love music is probably the same thing that makes you like those feelings [of being high]. It's quite easy to lose a certain grounding when you've got no routine and no sense of home and you're always on this highoctane level of life and adrenaline.'' As I sit here and listen to Rehab, the single that took Amy Winehouse into the Top 10, I wonder if her “high-octane'' lifestyle will get in the way of future performances. Friends worry about whether she will even make her 24th birthday in September. We might want our female rock stars to be sexy as hell, feisty, charismatic and fearless. But we don't expect them to crash and burn. But we need pop stars like Amy Winehouse. Too many young women are the bland creations of record company executives. We need her bitchiness – Madonna is “an old lady'', Victoria Beckham should “just give up'' – and her sarcasm. As her sometime producer Mark Ronson says, she doesn't have “that internal bulls**t filter that the rest of us use''. In many senses, Winehouse is the real thing, a true star. She doesn't have to pretend to be anyone else. She doesn't need drugs, the drama, the death scares. Amy, we love you just the way you are. Whitney Houston She was rushed to hospital in Las Vegas in 2003 for treatment after blood started pouring from her nose at a party. Last year, Whitney's sister-in-law Tina Brown said of her, she “won't stay off the drugs. It's every single day. It's so ugly. Everyone is so scared she is going to overdose.” Marianne Faithfull Marianne was caught wearing nothing but a huge fur rug during the famous drug raid at Keith Richards's house in Sussex in 1967. She has since said: “I ended up becoming a drug addict and a street person and, believe me, I did it with a vengeance.'' Ronnie Wood According to Stones’ biographer Stephen Davis, by 1984, Wood's cocaine habit was costing “$5,000 a day” to feed. He spent time in rehab in June 2006, just before the start of the Rolling Stones' World tour. Chrissie Hynde Chrissie Hynde formed The Pretenders during the tail end of the hard-living British punk movement and band mates Pete Farndon and James Honeyman-Scott died from drug overdoses within the space of a year. She said in 2003: “I regret every pill I've ever taken, every glass of wine I've ever drunk, every joint, every fag. It's crazy when you're young. You just burn through the pain barrier, hit my age and think, 'S***, I'm f***ing exhausted.' Robbie Williams After leaving Take That in 1995, Williams embarked on a heavy drink and drugs lifestyle, which led Elton John to “kidnap” him and force him into rehab. He checked himself in for more treatment on his 33rd birthday for dependency on prescription drugs. He once said: “I hate drugs, I love drugs. As depressing and heartbreaking as it is, as soul-destroying, relationship destroying as it is, it makes life f***ing interesting.” Janis Joplin Stuggled with drug and alcohol addiction throughout her career and died of a heroin overdose in 1970, aged only 27. She is the woman referred to in Leonard Cohen’s song, Chelsea Hotel. 
