drugs
{ Conor Skehan 
    November 03 2019 07:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/conor-skehan-its-time-we-came-up-with-answers-on-immigration-and-drugs-38656083.html }
What do immigrants and drugs have in common? They both create cash for criminals and misery for many, but both share something more fundamental. Our un-examined fears. We are afraid of immigrants and drugs, often for muddled reasons based on strong emotions and weak facts. We want a world of certainty, fairness, hard facts and clear rules. We dislike change. We dislike having to make decisions about people and situations that we regard as flawed or messy.  Fear of foreigners is understandable. A fear of being outnumbered at home by strangers, with an associated loss of influence, identity and security, lies at the heart the anti-immigration debate all over Europe. Brexit is the product of fear of foreigners, fear of the future and fear of change. Closer to home, objections to the provision of accommodation for asylum-seekers, as well as the recent attack on a TD's car, show how visceral these fears can be. A lot of people are also anxious that the growing world population will overwhelm the world's natural resources - a fear that lies at the root of a lot of environmental activism. Though this is a false fear for two reasons. Firstly, global population growth will end during the lifetime of anyone born after the year 2000. Estimates vary, but all show a population peaking between the year 2080 and 2100, after which it starts to decline. Secondly, the world's current food problem is not scarcity or hunger, it is over-production and over-consumption - leading to the set-aside or abandonment of agricultural lands and the global increase in obesity. We will not be over-run by foreigners who are running out of land or food.  The EU's population will peak around 2080 - even allowing for current rates of inward migration. Europe's future prosperity requires more people to work and pay taxes in Europe - whether as a resident or mobile workforce. We need people to come to work in Europe. How we manage this is often reduced to the false binary that is presented as a liberal-versus-nationalists argument of 'Leave 'em in or lock 'em out'.  Much more sophisticated solutions can be drawn up if we have the will and the courage to try to create migration that is legal and structured to prevent waves of illegal immigration. A fear of drugs, the second challenge, is a perfectly healthy fear - drugs are frightening, powerful and potentially very dangerous. But so too is alcohol, car driving and sugar - which we regulate, but do not ban. Why should drugs be any different? We licence the production of alcohol to ensure purity; we licence both drivers and vehicles - yet in Ireland in 2018 we still had to endure 149 road deaths; Irish children consume 250pc of the recommended daily maximum of sugar while obesity remains a major cause of death in Ireland. These are dangerous things, but we regulate their use, we don't ban them. People take drugs. Drugs have been taken since the Stone Age - a tendency that shows no sign of abating - indeed drug crime is reported to be increasing year by year. Heaven forbid that any of our loved ones should become involved in drugs, but if they do, would we want them taking who-knows-what poisons mixed with the drugs, sold to them by criminals? All EU member states spend a huge amount of police time and money on drug crime - directly and indirectly, while a lot of petty crime is committed to feed the habits of desperate drug addicts. All of this happens because drugs are illegal. Why do we do this to ourselves? Legal drugs would be controlled, safer, inexpensive and free of crime. We need to regularise drugs, all drugs, immediately. We need to make it easy for lots of people to come and share the prosperity of Europe - we need them and they need us.  'We' means Europe - all of us Europa Nostra, our Europe, it's ours to make, to lead. In Europe, we in Ireland, are as entitled as anyone else to propose solutions and to lead. We are not 'too small'. It is often forgotten that the EU is a grouping dominated by small countries. After Brexit, Germany, France, Italy, Poland, and Spain will be the five large countries in EU - each with populations of over 30m. All of the rest will be smallish - the largest, the Netherlands at only 17m - and the average of the rest being around 7m.  This mixture of sizes is changing too. By 2045, when Ireland's population is projected to be nearly 7m, one of the bigger, small countries. We will be bigger than Denmark, Finland or Bulgaria as well as eight other EU countries. Leadership by the many small is as likely as by the big five. Ireland is good at making friends, it already fits into two of the groupings of smaller countries - the 'New Hanseatic League' [Sweden, the Netherlands, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania] as well as Atlantic Europe - that includes Portugal, France, Scotland as well as the non-EU Norway and Iceland. In all of this Ireland brings an unusual perspective - especially on migration - because we are the only former colony in the EU. When France, Spain, the UK, Portugal reach out to the home states of immigrants they often do so as former colonialists. Ireland has a unique chance to see things from the perspective of having once been one of those 'huddled masses'.  We seem to be developing into a country that is becoming better at having national conversations about difficult, complex subjects. Perhaps we need to have a bit more self-confidence by beginning to try to harness the ingenuity and energy of 'small Europe' to map a way out of using prohibition to address hard problems. Perhaps we have something to offer, perhaps we could even lead, in the field of finding ways to accommodate flawed people and imperfect choices? During the darkest days of The Troubles in Northern Ireland, a very wise friend once advised that any solution would only be possible once people stopped 'being squeamish' about very difficult truths. There will be no perfect solutions to complex problems like drugs and immigration, but we will never even start to solve these issues unless we start to ask uncomfortable questions. How can we accept and accommodate that people will take drugs; how can we do that safely while denying a role for criminals? How can we accept that Europe needs immigrants and that immigrants will always try to come here - while accommodating this desire and demand in ways that are safe and legal - also denying a role for criminals? There is nothing new about dealing with these types of problems - driven by emotions and fear, often in the face of people who, for their own selfish reasons, are keen to exploit fear and prejudice to delay resolution or progress. A Roman emperor, Marcus Aurelius, advised 1,850 years ago: "It is the responsibility of leadership to work intelligently with what is given, and not waste time fantasising about a world of flawless people and perfect choices."  Sunday Independent 
