drugs
{ WILD CARD by KEVIN  O'SHAUGHNESSY 
    April 22 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/bwild-cardb-drugs-shame-of-bonny-baby-competition-26091054.html }
DON'T look so surprised. It was inevitable that it would all come to this, that one fine morning you would pick up the Indo  and stare aghast at the headline 'Drugs shame of bonny baby competition'. Yes, it was only a matter of time before the crusade against drugs in sport turned its attention to that cradle of cheating, that nursery of narcotics, the bonny baby competition. This morning, 'Wild Card' can exclusively reveal that behind those toothless grins and innocent smiles, almost 50 per cent of all entrants in bonny baby battles are in fact remorseless cheats who routinely use performance enhancing drugs. A special undercover investigation has discovered widespread use of two main types of drugs antipyretics and analgesics among unscrupulous tiny tots seeking to gain an unfair advantage over their rivals. Speaking to the Irish Independent, Little Tom, a disillusioned former competitor, accused the Bonny Baby Association of Ireland of trying to hush up the problem. "The whole bonny baby scene is riddled with performance enhancing drugs and the BBAI know about it, but they're just pretending there's nothing wrong," alleged the 15-month-old. "You should see some of the babies before the competitions they'd be red in the face and all puffy around the eyes from bawling their heads off, not looking the least bit bonny. "But then their mothers would slip them the gear, and by the time the judges come around they'd be all smiles, gurgling away like crazy, happy in their nappies," he said. "It's a complete fraud. Most of them wouldn't have a hope of winning were it not for the drugs. The most commonly used ones are the antipyretics and analgesics, maybe something like paracetemol, which you can get in Calpol. Yes, they're nearly all at it, guzzling down the Calpol," he claimed. But according to Little Tom, the infantile drug cheats don't just confine themselves to Calpol. "No, you name it, they'd take it if they thought it would help them win," he said. "The list of performance enhancing substances is endless chlorbutol, simethicone, diphenhydramine, ibuprofen, guaiphenesin, benzalkon ium ... "Some of the really bad babies have been even known to take pseudoephedrine, although you're not supposed to touch that stuff before you're two and it's one of the stimulants rated 'Class A' on the International Olympic Committee's banned list." Little Tom believes the Bonny Baby Association must take immediate action to clean up the competition. "There should be mandatory dope testing during every event and the cheats should be rooted out and banned from competing in all bonny baby competitions for at least 20 years, if not for life," he said. "I know grown ups might think that's a bit harsh, but the entire culture of drug cheats in sport must be stamped out at an early age. If they keep getting away with it, it will just get worse and worse as they grow older. "For example, I have it on good authority than Ben Johnson once took Calpol before a bonny baby competition and got away with it ... and look where he ended up, the most infamous drugs cheat of all time." A spokesman for the Bonny Baby Association of Ireland last night denied there was a serious problem and dismissed Little Tom's claims. "He's just a cry-baby," said the spokesman ... All of the above may sound so far-fetched as to be bordering on insane, but if the current war on drugs in sport is taken to its logi cal conclusion, the Calpol guzzling tiny tots could one day become a legitimate target for the drug testers. Last week, another step was taken in that direction when well known drug testers Al and Kate Guy, who became famous as a result of the Michelle Smith case, were sent to Rosses Point to take samples from some of the 144 amateur golfers at the West of Ireland championship. The Guys were just doing their job, but when you start testing amateur golfers, one has to wonder exactly where the line should be drawn. Undoubtedly, some of the golfers competing at Rosses Point last week were, wittingly or unwittingly, in breach of the Irish Sports Council's doping regulations. That's not to say that any of them are drug cheats; it's just that a vast array of medications, from blood pressure tablets to hangover cures, contain substances which are on the banned list. And knowing the state of health of your average amateur golfer, it's a fair bet to say that at least some of the 144 in action in Rosses Point are being kept alive by drugs on the Irish Sports Council's banned list. Got a heart problem, high blood pressure or angina? Well, the likelihood is you're on a cocktail of diuretics and beta-blockers. Got a Class A hangover? Well, here's a dose of cafenine and pseu doephedrine to send you rocketing over the limit. And if you've got asthma, hayfever or a bad cough, boy are you in trouble. Words like salbutanol, salmeterol and phenylphrone are sure to impress the appeal judges at the Court of Arbitration in Luasanne. The simple truth is that regardless of what legitimate medical reasons you may have for taking these substances, they are most certainly performance enhancing drugs and just like the Calpol- guzzling tots at bonny baby competitions, you are walking on very thin ice. It all begs a few questions: Firstly, where do we draw the line on who should and should not be tested? If you test amateur golfers competing in the West of Ireland, is the next logical step to conduct dope tests during the local golf club's captain's prize and nab the parish priest for tak ing rheumatism tablets? Secondly, who should decide which drugs are okay and which ones are banned? Why should it be okay to take the pain-killer codeine, but not okay to take other opiods? Why should some cough mixtures be allowed, but not the one that Diego Maradonna got banned for? Or, closer to home, why is the commonly used asthma drug terbetaline on the Irish Sports Council's prohibited list, while the International Olympic Committee deem it to be not so bad? Thirdly, why are there suspicions about almost all modern ath letes, while those from 30, 40 or 50 years ago are portrayed as some sort of whiter than white paragons of purity? Drugs have been widely used in sport since the first Olympics in ancient Greece the only difference is that today's athletes have to undergo tests and run the risk of getting caught. The manic quest for drug cheats reached a new level on Thursday when the Belgian police, a force who have been unable to bring some of the world's most gruesome serial killers to justice, decided that their time and skills would be best utilised by launching a major crackdown on performance enhancing drugs among, wait for it, homing pigeons? Perhaps they should be taking performance enhancers themselves. Pass the Calpol. * e-mail: koshaughnessy@independent.ie 
