drugs
{ Ralph Riegel 
    April 30 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/drug-lord-caught-with-5m-of-ecstasy-jailed-for-24-years-25912619.html }
A MAJOR player in the Cork drugs scene who was caught red-handed with ?4.8m worth of ecstasy in a garda 'sting' was jailed for 24 years yesterday. The sentence imposed on drug dealer Colum Carroll (31) is one of the longest handed down by the courts. Judge Patrick Moran told Cork Circuit Criminal Court that he wanted drug dealers to take note. "The message has to go out that people like this will be dealt with severely," the judge said. He imposed the massive jail term - sentences of 14 years and 10 years, to be served consecutively - after hearing Carroll was caught last January in Laois with 480,000 ecstasy tablets. Carroll appeared visibly stunned as the sentence was imposed and family members broke down and wept. The father-of-one told the court that drugs had ruined his life - and he publicly apologised to his elderly mother for the disgrace he had brought on the family. Drug squad officers, Det Sgt Larry O'Brien and Det Gda Morgan O'Sullivan, said the drugs would have flooded the Cork market at a time when ecstasy use was on the decline. Carroll, of no fixed address but originally from St Joseph's View, Riverstown, Glanmire, Cork, pleaded guilty to having the drugs for sale or supply on January 16 last. Carroll had also pleaded guilty to the possession for sale or supply of ?47,000 worth of cocaine and cannabis at Carrigaline in Cork on July 3 2002. Both charges were brought under Section 15 (A) of the Misuse of Drugs Act, which carries a minimum 10-year jail term. Yesterday, Judge Moran was told that the Laois seizure of ?4.8m worth of ecstasy - which remains one of the biggest ever - followed the receipt of confidential information. A van being driven by Carroll was stopped outside Mountrath and gardai discovered a cardboard box with 54 packages, each of which contained over 5,000 ecstasy tablets. A follow-up search uncovered a further 41 packets of 5,000 tablets each hidden inside a truck tyre. Carroll admitted the drugs were his. However, he refused to discuss where the drugs had come from, who he had bought them from, and who was going to help him sell them. Carroll had previously been arrested in July 2002 when he was seen throwing a bag containing drugs from the window of a car. A follow-up search uncovered drugs worth over ?47,000 but Carroll left the jurisdiction.Yesterday, in a statement read out by Blaise O'Carroll SC, the defendant admitted that drugs had ruined his life and apologised to his elderly mother for the shame he had caused. "I first started taking drugs when I was 16 years old. I suppose like lots of kids I was just experimenting," he explained. However, his drug dependency increased until it cost him his girlfriend, daughter, mortgage, and "beautiful lifestyle". "Cocaine became a constant presence in my life. Every waking hour I spent thinking about cocaine," he declared. He undertook the Laois drugs shipment after being promised a sum of money and some cocaine to feed his habit. "I have brought disgrace on my family. I want to apologise to my mother. I'm afraid the ordeal of coming here today to speak up for me would have been too much for her," he explained. "I could not do that to my mother." Judge Moran said that Carroll had not co-operated with gardai and had embarked on "an extraordinary act of bravado" in trying to smuggle drugs into Cork less than two years after he had been caught with a large quantity of drugs in the same city. Judge Moran said he was satisfied Carroll was a significant player in the Cork drugs industry. He jailed Carroll for 14 years for the Laois drug offence and for 10 years for the Cork drug offence, directing both sentences to run consecutively. He refused leave to appeal severity of sentence. 
