drugs
{  
    May 15 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/no-frontiers-for-dealer-in-death-26259336.html }
Brendan `Speedy' Fegan, aged 26, earned £10,000 a week selling drugs until last week, when he was shot dead. Liz Allen reportsWHEN the Newry drug dealer, Brendan Joseph `Speedy' Fegan, was gunned down in a Newry pub last Sunday lunchtime by two bewigged gunmen, his death was met with relief in the town which he had ravaged with his drug dealing since the early Nineties. As one local, a prominent public figure, put it: ``It was as if people had won something. There was plenty of joy in Newry on Sunday.'' But the 26-year-old hardened criminal did not confine his activities to north of the border, where vicious loyalist thugs gave him protection. He mixed with the worst criminals and drug dealers in the Republic and was among those pulled in for questioning for the murder of Veronica Guerin. On the afternoon of April 27, 1997, `Speedy' Fegan was lying on a couch with Vanessa Meehan, sister of Brian Meehan and girlfriend of Paul Ward (the criminal and drug dealer convicted of Veronica's murder last November). As detectives from the Guerin murder investigation prepared to enter the house to arrest him, Vanessa Meehan and Fegan were engaged in an embrace on the couch. `Speedy' Fegan came to the attention of gardaí in the days after October 7, 1996, the day John Gilligan was arrested at Heathrow Airport while carrying £330,000 in a briefcase. On that same day, the warehouse which gardaí say was the hub of Gilligan's empire was raided. In it gardaí discovered a list of dealers to whom Gilligan supplied drugs. The then 23-year-old Fegan's name was on the list. Fegan was so concerned at the arrest of Gilligan that he travelled to Spain to visit Gilligan's associate, John Traynor, who had fled there in the aftermath of the murder. His visits to Spain were not so much for Traynor's company, but to discuss ways of importing drugs back into Ireland to fill the void left by Gilligan's absence. In the months after the murder he was also traced to Amsterdam, where gardaí believe he was engaged in setting up new drug trafficking routes. Fegan based himself in Dublin (at an apartment at Bridgewater Quay, just off the Conyngham Road) in late 1996/early 1997 and it was this apartment which the Garda National Drugs Unit (GNDU) initially targeted. Whilst held in custody for 48 hours, Fegan refused to talk to gardaí about the Guerin murder. Investigating officers said that although he was ``clearly familiar'' with the circumstances, he refused to talk about any of the players involved. But he did talk about some of the gang's drug dealing activities, and it was for this reason he was released from custody. Had he not agreed to talk, the investigating team would have gone down the same route as that chosen for suspected gunman Gene Patrick Holland. Holland, although not charged with Veronica's murder, was charged with drug dealing on the basis of the discovery of his name on the warehouse list and also the testimony of supergrass Charlie Bowden. Fegan returned to the North, where he arranged for two of his associates to move the contents of his Dublin apartment back to the North. The van was intercepted by gardaí in Dundalk, but no arrests were made. Officially, garda sources say that he was not an informant and senior level officers insist that his murder was unconnected to the seizure of £850,000-worth of cannabis in north Dublin last Friday week, when an Armagh man was arrested following a high-speed car chase. He did, however, merit enough importance to have been visited by a senior garda officer before being released from custody in 1997. Normally, such a visit occurs only when a suspect is being prepared for ``handling''. Unofficially however, sources have conceded that he did provide ``modest information'' on the activities of certain drug runners in the Republic. It is known that he provided the intelligence which led to the interception of a Dublin-bound consignment of cannabis at Belfast docks in the months after his arrest by the Lucan team. But his murder was most likely arranged by republican anti-drugs activists in the North, where his reign of terror was most obvious. Brendan Joseph `Speedy' Fegan traded three ways. Garda intelligence shows that he purchased drugs from the Gilligan gang to peddle them in the towns of Drogheda and Dundalk, and indeed he was also a regular visitor to Cork, through which Gilligan imported many of his consignments. He was also strongly aligned to loyalist paramilitary organisations, to whom he paid vast amounts of protection money to enable him to buy and sell drugs in the North. At the same time, he was an RUC informant who was effectively permitted to trade drugs in return for supplying information on fellow dealers. This style of policing is nothing new, either in the North or in the Republic, and in Fegan's case was evidenced by the fact that three months ago, when he was shot, he travelled not to the nearest hospital, but to the his police ``handler''. Intelligence reports suggest that his dealings earned him ``in the region of £10,000 a week''. About 30 per cent of his income was said to be made of dealings south of the border and indeed last year when rock band The Verve played Slane, Co. Meath, he was spotted in the town at 7.30am, arranging to supply dealers for the day. It was in Newry, however, that his mark was really made, and although having fled to the Isle of Man in the early Nineties (following a death threat from the Provos), the ceasefire allowed him to return to the North. While he lived mainly in Belfast, he felt that he could return to Newry with increasing frequency in recent months. He had double-crossed drug dealer Paddy Farrell, stealing a large consignment of his drugs. In September 1997, just as Farrell was about to order Speedy's murder, Farrell's girlfriend Lorraine killed Farrell and then turned the gun on herself. He earned the nick-name `Speedy' because of his penchant for fast cars in the days when he worked for Farrell, stealing BMWs and Mercedes in Newry and handing them over to Farrell, who made big profits shaving off the chassis numbers and selling them on. When Fegan's notoriety as a drug dealer grew, he returned to Newry to exhibit his wealth and would frequently stop in the centre of town to rev-up his high-powered vehicle just to let everybody know that he was home. Last year, he deliberately drove over a teenager who unwittingly stood in front of his car outside a Newry disco. The 19-year-old man suffered serious injuries, but was too frightened to go to court. Like many drug dealers, Speedy had a fondness for flashy gold jewellery. He also had an interest in horses not for sporting reasons, but to conceal drugs when organising cross-border consignments. He was frequently accompanied by his minder, nicknamed `Fatso' by the locals in Newry because of his build. But last Sunday Fegan told Fatso to go home, that he didn't need protection.  Local Sinn Féin Councillor, Brendan Curran, could write his epitaph with his summary of Fegan: ``He was a vicious piece of work who cared for no one. He was the suppliers' supplier of drugs and he brought Newry to national prominence through drugs. That's how you'd sum Speedy up.'' 
