drugs
{  
    July 04 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/cool-crime-free-dublin-the-truth-behind-hollywood-hype-25937597.html }
The Veronica Guerin movie paints the Dublin of today as a virtually  crime-free city, but nothing could be further from the truth. Ruthless 'young guns' have taken over from the well-known villains, the city is awash with drugs and in one community alone 10 young addicts have died this year. LIZ WALSH reports Next week the new Hollywood movie 
Veronica Guerin goes on general release - seven years after her murder at the hands of a notorious Dublin drugs gang. By a quirk of fate, the head of the murder gang, John Gilligan, is currently appealing his 28-year sentence for drug offences in the Court of Criminal Appeal. The movie, based on the life and death of Veronica, is given the full technicolour Hollywood treatment. Swaggering criminals, desolate inner city landscapes crawling with drug dealers and heroin addicts, and a crusading journalist are, sadly, all too familiar scenes for anyone familiar with Dublin over the past 10 or 15 years. But the celluloid version breaks with reality when it portrays present-day Dublin as a safer, less crime-ridden capital thanks to changes brought about as a result of the murder of the 
Sunday Independent crime reporter. The cool image of largely crime-free streets and 'crims on the run' is pure Hollywood fiction; the reality is a savagely different. The large Gilligan-type gangs, highly organised and tightly run operations, have simply been replaced by the 'young guns' - criminals in their late teens or early 20s out to make an easy buck. And within the past few months, non-subversives were - for the first time ever - caught with UZI submachine guns. Before Veronica's murder, some five or six big gangs operated in Dublin city and county. The authorities, unable or unwilling to take them on, simply allowed them to operate a stranglehold in certain communities, mainly because of a lack of political will. John Gilligan's gang, probably the biggest and most organised, was fairly typical. There was a gang leader, number two and three and so on, a designated 'bagman' and a weapons man. They tended to use one or two main suppliers in Holland or Spain and they had a list of regular 'customers' - smaller dealers further down the chain filling individual orders on a weekly basis. The situation now is far more fluid. After an initial lull in the aftermath of Veronica's murder, the number of individual or 'street dealers' multiplied. They were filling a demand that, despite all the government promises of tackling the causes of addiction, never really went away. The 'young guns' appear to be buying direct from mainland Europe, or using couriers to bring the drugs back and then selling directly on to the streets. Armed robberies on the scale of the infamous Brinks Allied heist and major bank robberies of the 80s and 90s are now relatively rare. The drugs trade has proved a far more lucrative proposition for up and coming criminals: the profits are enormous, the risks far less than armed robbery, and the lure of easy money ensures a steady flow of young drugs couriers and street dealers. The age threshold for couriers and addicts has fallen as low as 12 or 13. Some familiar figures from the '80s and '90s are still around, like Martin 'The Viper' Foley who survived three murder attempts and lived to tell the tale. But the 'Mr Bigs' have largely been replaced by a plethora of small-time crooks, say gardai and anti-drugs activists. "Four or five years ago I could have named the main problem guys in the north inner city," says Sinn Fein's Christy Burke. "I can't now - but the problem is as bad as ever and it appears that everybody and anybody who can make a handsome profit is at it. For every one arrested there's another 10 to take his or her place." There are still some well-known faces around for whom old habits die hard. One notorious criminal from the Crumlin area of Dublin, who has been involved in everything from drugs and armed robberies to money laundering, is supplying heroin, ecstasy and cocaine to a group of young street dealers in the south inner city and suburbs. In roughly the same area, a middle-aged man and his son supply the large Oliver Bond flats complex. The father is a life-long criminal with links to Tony Long, the convicted criminal who pleaded guilty to bribing corrupt garda John O'Neill in the Guerin investigation. In the north of the city, Blanchardstown, a group of young hoods - collectively known as the 'Westies' - are involved in serious crime, from shootings to armed robbery, car theft and drug trafficking on a large scale. The leader - a man in his mid-20s, nicknamed 'Coatsie' - is thought to have been wounded following an incident in Cavan last May in which the gang robbed an arms dealer. They took a small arsenal of weapons, including shotguns, handguns and telescopic sights. Gardai later recovered the weapons and arrested six people. These young hoods are just as vicious, if not more so, than those they have replaced. A bullet in the head is seen as proper order for anyone who steps out of line. One former 'Westie' who moved big time into drugs was shifting ?8m worth of narcotics each month before his arrest last year. He is in his early 20s and suspected of involvement in two murders - that of Noel Hanlon and David McCreevy, both in 2002. Hanlon's badly beaten body was dumped in the grounds of a Crumlin school. Part of his fingers had been removed in an attempt to prevent identification. McCreevy was shot dead because his killer believed he was a garda informant. This man has since been convicted of another offence and is in jail. The gardai do not yet know who has taken over from him. What they do know is that his particular 'market' is still being supplied. In the Baldoyle area, a major trafficker previously acquitted of possession of cannabis with intent to supply, is still very much in business. Declan Griffin, the drug dealer shot dead earlier this year, began his 'career' working for this man. He paid Griffin 1,000 Irish punts to do a run to Amsterdam, increasing to IR£10,000 a run. At the time, the Baldoyle man was sourcing drugs from George 'The Penguin' Mitchell in Amsterdam. He is still working with him and, according to garda sources, is bigger than ever. The Criminal Assets Bureau, set up in the aftermath of the Guerin murder, has so far failed to catch up with him. In Tallaght and north Kildare, two brothers with INLA connections who were regular customers of Gilligan, remained in the drug business despite the clampdown in the aftermath of Veronica's murder. One of them has since died. The other is regarded as a significant dealer in the Tallaght area. As an organisation, the INLA is heavily involved in drugs and is believed to have shot dead pub doorman Ronald Draper in Eden Quay on June 14. Draper was involved in the infamous 'Ballymount Bloodbath' in 1999, the culmination of a vicious drugs feud in which an INLA man was stabbed to death with a machete. Gardai suspect Draper was murdered in revenge. His was the 10th gangland murder since January of this year. A relatively recent development is the emergence of the Nigerian gangs based around the north and south inner city, who appear to be manufacturing crack cocaine - a highly addictive mixture of cocaine and glucose. Last year, the first crack 'factory' in Dublin's Camden Street was busted by gardai. They say the Nigerian gang was behind it. Anecdotal evidence and garda statistics on firearm offences suggest more and more guns are finding their way into criminal hands. Since the early '90s, many of the drug consignments coming into the country have also contained hidden caches of weapons. Just three months ago, gardai arrested two men armed with UZI submachine guns - a weapon previously used only by the garda special branch and paramilitaries. Detectives believe they were on their way to kill a well-known drug dealer. They had been paid ?10,000. Within the past couple of years - and particularly the past 12 months - the gardai have had some stunning successes in drug seizures. Inevitably, this has spawned headlines giving the impression the gangs are on the run. The true picture is somewhat different. Privately, gardai will tell you they capture about one-tenth of what is actually coming in to the country. If that is correct, the statistics make for sober reading. Since January, gardai have seized cocaine with a street value of ?9.1m, heroin worth ?3.8m, ?30m in ecstasy and a whopping ?62.6m in cannabis. The scale of some of the hauls was staggering. They included 15 million ecstasy tablets seized in north county Dublin in April and ?20m worth of cannabis in Swords in January. These figures do not take account of seizures of less than a quarter kilo. Also, prices have fallen, indicating plentiful supply. In the aftermath of Veronica's murder, addicts complained of a dearth of heroin. But not for long. Cocaine, previously called a 'designer drug' because it was so expensive, has fallen to ?101,500 per kilo - with a kilo of heroin fetching ?190,400, depending on purity. In 2001, there were 7,959 prosecutions for drug offences. Of those, 42pc were aged under 21. While many were charged with simple possession, a significant number were also done for dealing. And the death toll continues apace. Last Wednesday week, in Our Lady Of Lourdes Church in Dublin's north inner city, the funeral took place of a 23-year-old man. He was the 10th person to die a drug-related death in that community since January. Among the mourners was Fianna Fail councillor Royston Brady and his brother, Senator Cyprian Brady - both of whom are close to Taoiseach Bertie Ahern. A local woman tapped them on the shoulder; she was in tears. "Would you ever tell the Taoiseach that this is the 10th kid to die in this community since January," she said. "You'd better get something done - the drug problem, it's out of hand." Then the people of the north inner city went once more to bury their dead. Unfortunately, for them, there is no happy Hollywood-style ending. 
