drugs
{  
    October 15 2013 03:50 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/cornmarket-project-set-to-bring-its-services-to-new-ross-29642425.html }
A NEW five-day-a-week service for people battling drug and alcohol addiction in New Ross is set to be established in the New Year. The Cornmarket Project, working in conjunction with the HSE and the Department of Social Protection, will establish a series of special drugs CE Fás schemes and fund a five-day-a-week service in New Ross, which is being prioritised due to the high incidence of 'contacts' from drug users in the area. This newspaper met with Cornmarket services manager Paul O'Brien and New Ross outreach worker Tommy Somers to discuss the prevalence of drug abuse in the area and the treatment and services available to drug users, and their families who have to deal with the fallout from the addiction. Mr Somers said many young people are spending hundreds of euro per week on synthetic cannabis in the New Ross area, which is the only area in the county to witness such a spike in head shop drug use. There is currently a red list of clients waiting to be seen by Mr Somers, which can take up to three weeks in some cases. Mr O'Brien said the Cornmarket Project offers support and help to people of all ages. 'It's a targeted outreach service in New Ross. We don't just go out onto the streets and look for people who need our help. When someone wants help and contacts us we will work with them.' Many people contact the service having been handed the Cornmarket Project contact details by a concerned friend, while many people come into contact with the Cornmarket Project through the Probation Service. A drop-in service based at the Wexford Local Development premises on Mary Street currently operates one day a week, but this service is set to be expanded to five days per week. Mr O'Brien explains: 'The drop-in service is more for clients who want to know more about what we do. They may not want to commit to one of our longer programmes or may have a query in relation to a CV or their social welfare.' There are free one-to-one counselling services which are confidential, and group meetings also once a week. 'They are housed in the WLD premises, which provides anonymity for people as they could be going in seeking information on a business grant or anything.' Based in Wexford town, the Cornmarket Project has had a presence in New Ross for three years. Mr O'Brien said: 'Going forward we will have a much bigger presence. We are teaming up with our colleagues in the HSE and the Department of Social Protection to expand all our services and to grow our outreach and drop-in and group programmes and services to accommodate the need of the area. It's about building trust: we don't want a situation where we're there some days and we're not other days.' He said the Cornmarket Project uses an evidence-based system which it uses at presentations with the HSE when allocating areas of need. Mr Somers is the outreach worker and often visits drug users in the New Ross area outside of the one day a week he is based in New Ross. He said the main substance abused in New Ross is alcohol, followed by head shop drugs like Bonsai and Mad Hatter, which give users a rush before the more sedate feeling kicks in. 'People start experimenting aged 11, 12, 13, and 18- to 25-year-olds are regularly using synthetic cannabis. There are hundreds of names for these drugs and they keep changing them all the time. When people smoke it there is a type of rush off it which distinguishes it from cannabis. It's not just calming, it's a rush and then a calming effect. That kind of rush can lead to problems.' He said people are buying these drugs on the internet and having them delivered to their homes. 'It's very easy, you can buy them and they are cheaper per gram than cannabis, but people use more of it. The average user is using two to four grams a day at €20 a gram.' He said all the anecdotal evidence suggests the head shop drugs are highly addictive. 'It's particular to New Ross. Wexford, Enniscorthy and Gorey have nowhere near as much of a problem with them.' He said many young people develop a dependency on these and other drugs from a young age, which can be very difficult to break. 'In terms of New Ross there is a hopeless legacy and a social isolation legacy. For people in socially deprived areas there is a real lack of opportunity. When you have all these factors together there tends to be an increase in drink and drug use.' Mr O'Brien said the Cornmarket Project wants to provide a comprehensive service in New Ross, where, like in other parts of the county, outreach workers have worked with generations of families and siblings within families, all dealing with addiction issues. 'We want to ensure the interventions we make are the right ones. We deal with the behaviours behind the abuse, like criminal behaviour, substance misuse and family issues. At the start we realised that it wasn't the person in the middle of the addiction chaos, it was the family and the greater community surrounding him or her that is also affected so we have a family support network. It's a lot more complex than someone giving up their old sins.' Mr Somers said another growing problem is people's addiction to prescription drugs and benzodiazepines, which are physically addictive. 'The hardest decision that a client has to make is to give up their benzodiazepines or sleeping tablets. Benzodiazepines are dangerous if you stop using them without consulting a doctor first.' Mr O'Brien said people's drug use has changed from recreational drugs like ecstasy and cocaine during the economic boom to more sedate drugs now like cannabis and heroin. 'With ecstasy everyone used to get dressed up and go out and meet their friends. People are regressing back into their own groups and their bedrooms and playing the XBox and taking drugs. It's not as social anymore and what isn't social becomes anti-social very quickly.. The Celtic Tiger masked that world of drug use. People were talking benzodiazepines then but it's more apparent now. If there is a problem people tend to deal with it medically or chemically now instead of through other ways. We see that filtering down through all age groups.' Another issue is the ready and cheap availability of alcohol from supermarkets. Mr Somers said: 'This drink is very cheap so if you want to abuse this substance on very limited resources you can.' The Cornmarket Project works with GPs in terms of a community detox programme. Mr O'Brien said: 'We work closely with the methadone services in Wexford, which people from New Ross use.' Mr O'Brien said project workers see as many people as they can in the solitary day per week they are based in New Ross. 'We have a red list of clients who have enquired about our services. We used to pride ourselves on seeing people within a week and now it's a fortnight or more. We will have a five day a week presence in New Ross within the next six months.' Mr Somers said there have been many cases where people have made full recoveries from their addictions through the Cornmarket Project. 'The probation services did an audit of the project which found that 82 per cent of clients who came to us didn't reoffend within 12 months.' Mr Somers said drug use is widespread across the county, adding that it is up to the individual to seek help. Mr O'Brien said Cornmarket workers point out the consequences of people's actions to them. Anger and depression are among the main problems clients face. The Cornmarket Project also helps family members who have lost a child or brother or sister to substance misuse. 'The quickest way out of drug misuse is to change how a person cognitively sees the world. Our Fás special drugs CE scheme is for clients who are trying to bridge the gap between how they used to live and into training and employment,' Mr O'Brien said. There are currently 16 clients on one of these schemes and more schemes will be rolled out in New Ross and across the county in 2014. 'The outcome of these projects are quite heartening. We have great links with the IT and the county council and it works.' Mr O'Brien said once a client identifies his or her aspirations in life, be it something as simple as playing soccer again with friends on a Sunday morning, often their quality of life begins to improve. 'We take any sign of change as an opportunity and we build that into significant change with the client.' The Cornmarket Project Confidential Line can be contacted at 053 9144931. One can also telephone the office at 053 9155817 or visit wwwwld.ie. New Ross Standard 
