drugs
{ Denise Calnan 
    October 24 2013 12:08 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/entertainment/books/top-six-celebrities-drug-confessions-in-hot-press-magazine-29697149.html }
It's an established trend that popular culture magazine Hot Press regularly reveals an Irish personality's attitude to drugs.  Today the news focused on the upcoming issue where football pundit Eamon Dunphy shares the reason he gave up his cocaine habit.  Here are the top six Irish celebrity drug confessions from the magazine: 1. Adam Clayton U2 bassist Adam Clayton spoke out to Hot Press this year about his history of drugs and how he battled his own demons.  “...then of course, I have my own history with drugs and alcohol. I was in a successful band with great people whose lives were functional.,” he said.  
Close
 Phil at the height of his fame / “They were in long-term relationships and raising families.  I'd look at them and me and go, 'what's the difference here; what's wrong with this picture?' I hated not feeling good enough.” 2. Brian Cowen In a May 2007 interview with the pop culture magazine, former Taoiseach Brian Cowen admitted to smoking marijuana.  “Anyone who went to the UCD bar in the ‘70s that didn’t get a whiff of marijuana would be telling you a lie,” the Offaly man said.  “ I would say there were a couple of occasions when it was passed around – and, unlike President Clinton, I did inhale!  “There wasn’t a whole lot in it really – (it was like) a Sweet Afton, as a 10-year-old, under a railway bridge on a rainy day, in small town Ireland in the late ‘60s. I certainly got more enjoyment out of a few pints.” 3. Bressie Mullingar musician Bressie revealed to the magazine how he believes cannabis should be legalised in April of this year.  The Voice star said he thinks alcohol is far more destructive than smoking a joint.  Bressie followed up his comments to the magazine with a blog post that read;  “It’s my opinion that cannabis is no more harmful than alcohol when taken in moderation and there are many studies which prove the same. “In fact I believe alcohol has a far more destructive ability than cannabis ever has, especially in this country.” 4. Eamon Dunphy  Eamon Dunphy only revealed this week that it was the death of his friend Gerry Ryan in 2010 that helped him kick his cocaine habit. The 68-year-old football pundit said he “did [his] share” of cocaine until the RTÉ broadcaster’s death made him think twice about his habit. “I did my share of drugs and stuff when the Tiger was roaring in nightclubs or whatever,” Dunphy said.  “No, I don’t,” he replied when asked if he still used cocaine, “I stopped altogether." “Because I’m not one who can mess," he continued, "I would be borderline sometimes. “Actually, Gerry Ryan’s death had something to do with that. “I said, ‘Eamon, you’re an idiot. You’ve got kids. You’ve a wife. You’ve responsibilities. And you’re putting that rat poison up your nose.” 5. Phil Lynott In a 1984 interview, Phil Lynott met “What’s favourite drug?” with the drank reply “sugar”.  “Sugar... I'm off the ciggies... Alcohol, it must be. I'm not a lush, but I do like a drink sometimes.” He questioned whether he was being asked about "drugs in general" or "'drug' drugs" and continued, "If you're going to ask me about drugs in general, as opposed to 'drug' drugs... that's the reason why I mentioned sugar and alcohol; to show that there are a lot of drugs about that you aren't even aware of...  "'Drug' drugs are really bad for you. They can cause you an awful lot of misery. Initially, you get some great kicks, and it does give you different perspectives, and you can find all the reasons in the world for taking them, but there's juts as many reasons for not taking them. In fact, more,” Lynott continued.  “The reasons for not taking them obviously include addiction, they can change your personality without you knowin', so you lose control of your mind and body, and therefore you lose your dignity. And the stigma attached to taking drugs socially is bad news.” 6. David McSavage In 2011, rish comedian David McSavage shared his own opinion on drugs.  "Drugs should be legalised," he said.  Online Editors 
