drugs
{  
    January 03 2008 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/deadly-drug-now-available-in-every-irish-town-26342091.html }
Heroin use has now spread to every town and city in the country, a major new Government report has found. A new all-Ireland study to be published later this month will confirm that the killer drug is no longer just confined to the capital and other large urban centres. And there are growing fears heroin, which has devastated entire inner-city communities in Dublin, will spread to middle class class areas due to increased supply and recent negative publicity surrounding cocaine use. Figures obtained by the Irish Independent also reveal that despite the nationwide surge in cocaine use last year, heroin patients are the biggest group of drug users seeking treatment in Health Service Executive (HSE) centres across the country. Drugs Minister Pat Carey last night stopped short of saying that the problem had reached epidemic levels, but he admitted the alarming spread of heroin use was of "grave concern". However, Fine Gael frontbencher Michael Ring said it was time to "stop pretending" about the scale of the drugs problem. "We have an epidemic of drug-taking all over the country and we will have to start looking at ways of dealing with it," he told the Irish Independent. Affluent "While it was always accepted that the problem was only to be found in working class areas, it has now spread to the middle classes as well. "A lot of public funds have been wasted on tackling the drugs menace and the Government and the courts need to send out a strong message to the suppliers and drug users." Drug experts have forecast that heroin will be the main killer drug in 2008, despite recent fears about increased cocaine usage. The worrying prediction is based on intelligence about a major growth in heroin supplies across Europe and its spread here across the country. European police intelligence officials have confirmed more than 800 tonnes of the drug have been produced in Afghanistan and the extra supply will flow onto the streets in the coming months. One senior garda officer warned that publicity about the dangers of cocaine in recent weeks could turn drug users to heroin and that as its usage widens, it was likely more people would smoke rather than inject the drug. Failure The latest findings come as the Government admitted its last national drug awareness campaign was a failure. Preliminary findings showed that heroin, once limited to Dublin and larger urban centres, is now a countrywide problem with cocaine use also on the increase. Mr Carey said that while he was concerned about the rise in cocaine use, he understood the figure was not as high as some reports were suggesting. Drug-use patterns also suggested that in some cases users were mixing cocaine with alcohol and other drugs such as amphetamines, ecstasy and prescription drugs. The Minister promised the latest national drug aware campaign now underway would be more focussed than the previous one, would target the 15-35-year age group and would specifically focus on cocaine misuse and the dangers of mixing the drug with other substances. A review of the last national drug awareness campaign claimed it suffered from poor funding and lack of clarity. However, Mr Carey said lessons had been learned and the latest campaign would be much more targeted and would be continuously evaluated. "Some of the messages in the last campaign probably missed the target audience," he told the Irish Independent. The new campaign will use websites and TV and poster campaigns to get its drug awareness message across. 
