drugs
{ Geraldine Gittens and Claire Mc Cormack 
    January 23 2016 04:07 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/man-18-dies-after-taking-the-drug-n-bomb-its-such-a-tragic-loss-of-a-precious-young-life-34390504.html }
An 18-year-old man who had been in a serious condition after taking the drug  'N-bomb' has died. Alex Ryan was one of six partygoers hospitalised after taking the hallucinogenic drug 'N-bomb'. He was being treated at Cork University Hospital this week after he took ill at a house party in Cork city. Today, Fr John Fitzgerald, the Millstreet parish priest, said the community are shocked and saddened by Alex’s death. “It’s very, very sad news. There was a lot of uncertainty in the town last night, people were just waiting to hear,” he said.  “There will be a lot of shock and sadness among his peers. It’s such a tragic loss of a precious young life,” he said, adding that Alex was a student at Millstreet Community School. Fr Fitzgerald said he intends to make contact with the family and intends to visit them this week to offer them his support. The drug known as 25I-NBOMe is a derivative of the 2C family of illegal substances and is sometimes referred to by its street name 'N-Bomb'. It is a controlled substance under the Misuse of Drugs Act, and mimics the effects of LSD, and methamphetamine. Gardai are to prepare a file for the DPP after arresting a man about the supply of a substance believed to have been consumed by a group of people at the party in Cork. Detectives arrested the 29 year-old-man in the French's Quay area of Cork's southside on Tuesday for questioning about the supply of the drug which was consumed at a house party on Green Street in the city on Monday night. 'N-bomb' is also believed to have resulted in the hospitalisation of six students from a Dublin college in 2014. At the Cork party earlier this week, one student was seen dancing naked on shards of glass unaware of the pain and covered in blood while a young man was collapsed on the ground apparently having a heart attack. Gerard Banks, a passerby, told how he became concerned when he heard shouting. When he went to the front window to investigate, he saw blood on the walls, floor, and curtains, and he asked one of the partygoers to let him inside. “Last night was one of the scariest and most surreal nights of my life,” he wrote on his Facebook page. “I was walking [past] late last night and heard crazy shouting in a house. So me and a friend looked in the window to see is everyone ok.” “The bedroom was covered in blood, walls, floor, bed and even curtains. We shouted in to see is everyone OK. A man arrived at the window clearly on drugs and in a state of shock. We asked is everyone ok. He replied: ‘yes, everything is fine’.” “So we said there is blood everywhere, someone must be hurt, can we check to make sure no one is hurt? He said ‘yes’ and opened the door. When we went in it was like a scene from CSI. Blood all over the walls, floors, couches and a man and a woman naked covered in blood shouting and screaming badly hurt and clearly in a state of dementia.” “The man was smashing the house up, blood was everywhere. The house was destroyed. There was a man on the floor in cardiac arrest with major breathing problems and the man who let us in [was] sitting on the chair in shock.” Mr Banks directed paramedics to the scene when they arrived. “In shock, me and my friend took control of the room. My friend started helping the man in cardiac arrest on the floor. I had to control the room to let my friend help the man on the floor in safety.” “It was surreal… a naked man and woman dancing naked on the chairs as a man was having cardiac arrest on the floor. I was the man who left the guards and paramedics into the house. It was surreal.” Students in Cork are being warned to remain vigilant after six young people were hospitalised after consuming the drug at the party. “Whatever drugs those people were on last night was scary,” Mr Banks said. “They didn’t even know they were covered in blood and badly hurt, they didn’t even know there was a man dying on the floor. I haven’t slept a wink all night. I’m still in shock to be honest.” “These people did not seem like bad people just like students out partying which is the most worrying thing about this new drug and its side effects. It’s really scary stuff and we need to make everyone aware of its dangers.” “Everyone in the house was rushed to hospital…  We were all delighted to see the man in cardiac arrest leave in an ambulance in a stable state. One night of taking this new drug has probably ruined the lives of these people for a long time to come.” Online Editors 
