drugs
{ John  Mulligan 
    March 06 2008 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/pharmacy-price-war-goes-to-brink-26428145.html }
The Health Services Executive (HSE) is getting a reputation for liking nothing more than a good battle. Fresh from tortuous negotiations with hospital consultants, the body headed by Brendan Drumm has rolled up its sleeves to take on the country's drug wholesalers and pharmacists. It's a war of attrition that's been fought for months and which now looks set for a final showdown. Yesterday, more than 800 pharmacists from around the country met in Dublin to raise the bar and discuss tactics. Incensed that the HSE has almost halved the margins it effectively pays to pharmacists for the drugs they dispense under the General Medical Services scheme, they say they are now fighting for their livelihoods. The atmosphere at the event was charged and emotional, with far more pharmacists attending than had been expected. They're clearly angry enough to go to the wire with the HSE, and all that was missing was the beating of swords on shields. The HSE wants to reduce its massive annual drug bill -- a whopping €1.75bn last year, and believes it can shave €100m a year from the amount it pays pharmacists. Unsurprisingly, there's intense spin from both sides. The Irish Pharmaceutical Union (IPU) claims up to 300 pharmacies could close if the HSE persists with its plan and that up to 5,000 jobs could be lost in the sector. The HSE maintains that since it has already reached agreement with drugs manufacturers to cut the factory gate price of medicines by a total of €270m over the next four years, that the next logical step is to address the margins wholesalers, and in turn pharmacies, are being paid. Burden It all seems quite laudable. Reduce the drugs bill, and maybe some of the money could be funnelled into the creaky health service. But the drugs bill is rising due in no small part to the fact that we're living longer, and many advanced medicines cost more to develop. It's a financial burden facing many western societies, not just Ireland. But as one pharmacist told the Irish Independent, some of the drugs that manufacturers agreed to cut prices on are either close to, or have already seen, their patents expire. "These are drugs such as the ulcer treatment Losec, which is already off patent," he claimed. The manufacturer's hope, he says, is that declining revenues may not be as heavily impacted by generic competition, as doctor's will continue to prescribe the branded drug rather than any generic alternative if the price of the former has been reduced. "We accept that something should be done to address drug prices," said IPU president Michael Guckian. "All we want is a fair and level playing field." He claimed that senior members of the HSE are more concerned with self-interest than the welfare of patients and pharmacy customers. Former IPU president Marie Hogan told delegates attending yesterday's meeting that the pharmacists' gripe isn't with the fact that drug pricing needs to be addressed. "This is a dispute about how one side, the HSE, won't talk to our union," she said. Hogan added that the HSE's claim that to negotiate with the IPU would break competition law is flawed. The HSE maintains it can't negotiate collectively with the IPU as the community pharmacies are independent businesses. "The HSE is hiding behind competition law and, like all bullies, they're cowards at heart." Guckian points out that the report prepared by consultancy group Indecon for the HSE on drug pricing urged that any changes should have been phased in over time, and should have been negotiated in consultation with the relevant stakeholders. That, says Guckian, never happened. A further independent report, he adds, should have been allowed to deliver findings before the HSE imposed the new pricing structure, but was instead proposed after the HSE took the decision to impose the cuts. Meanwhile, the HSE has instead been flexing its muscles. "The last time we met face to face with the HSE was back in early February," said Dermot Twomey, chairperson of the Pharmaceutical Contractors' Committee. "When you negotiate, both sides have their positions and you try to reach a fair compromise. The HSE has its position and that's it. There's no room for manoeuvre." Twomey describes a meeting with Health Minister Mary Harney on Valentine's Day as "very unproductive". Any love that may have existed between the Department of Health and Children, the HSE and pharmacists has clearly evaporated. The HSE did not respond to requests to speak with Ross Hathaway of its Corporate Pharmacy Unit, who has been fronting the HSE's war on margins. "Pharmacists and the HSE have to do business and negotiate with each other, but I've little interest in doing that now," said Twomey. On the front line, the troops are certainly prepared for casualties. Cork pharmacist Tadgh O'Leary generates between 80pc and 90pc of his turnover under the GMS, largely dispensing drugs to medical card holders from his Blackpool outlet. Shouldering substantial debts since he acquired the shop in 2005, he declines to say exactly how much be bought the outlet for, but it's likely his loan with Ulster Bank is about €2m or more -- a not unusual amount for new pharmacy owners. Another pharmacist at yesterday's meeting said many of his colleagues had taken out loans from Ulster Bank to fund the purchase or opening of pharmacies as it had offered good terms. He claimed that in light of the dispute, Ulster Bank is reducing the number of loans made to independent pharmacists to fund store-openings until the impact of the margin cuts becomes evident. "The bank has been very supportive, but it still has to be paid," said O'Leary. "There's no way I can afford to start dispensing drugs at a loss." Added to the problem of servicing long-term debt is the fact that O'Leary, like other pharmacists, typically buys stock about two months before he receives refunds from the HSE. A standard month's supply of medicines for O'Leary's store can cost about €150,000, the purchase of which he funds mostly from an overdraft. Last year the IPU won a High Court case against the HSE that forced the body to resume advance payments to pharmacists for medicines they order on behalf of patients under the General Medical Services scheme. However, that's being appealed by the HSE to the Supreme Court. Wholesalers, meanwhile, haven't been immune to the HSE's assault on drug prices. The wholesale market is controlled by three main players -- United Drug, Cahill May Roberts (owned by German firm Celesio) and Uniphar. The HSE had hoped that wholesalers would absorb some, if not all, of the margin reduction, but they've indicated to pharmacists they have no intention of doing so (see panel). Wholesalers have a vested interest in pharmacies. United Drug has ploughed about €300m into community pharmacies, while Uniphar is owned by a group of about 400 pharmacists. Cahill May Roberts owns over 70 retail outlets under the Unicare brand. It could make for an uneasy marriage, but Indecon has previously indicated that it believes there is effective competition within the drug wholesale market in Ireland. But while wholesalers pass on discounts to pharmacies, because of their stake in pharmacies, they are effectively giving rebates to themselves, goes the argument. Hence they should be willing to absorb the cut in margins. But pharmacists usually only receive a discount from their primary wholesaling provider and if they have to buy a drug from another firm, no discount is usually made available. United Drug chief executive Liam FitzGerald said at the company's AGM last week that the HSE's assessment of wholesale drug prices in Ireland is inaccurate and at variance with the reality. He said United Drug "didn't understand" where the HSE's evaluation of margins had come from and added that it is too early to say how the firm will be impacted by the changes. United Drug has claimed that it only makes a net margin of between 1pc and 2pc on its wholesaling business. A spokesman for Cahill May Roberts echoed that position, saying the firm is in a 'wait-and-see' position regarding the pricing changes. Yesterday's call to arms by the IPU is likely to be eagerly taken up by its members. However, a cure for the crisis may be hard to find. BEFORE last Saturday, the HSE allowed an almost 18pc mark-up to be added by wholesalers to drugs they then sell to pharmacists. To reduce its overall drug bill, the HSE has reduced the mark-up paid to wholesalers by almost nine percentage points. The problem is that the wholesalers aren't taking the hit, and are instead continuing to charge pharmacies the factory gate price for drugs, with the almost 18pc margin still added on. If a pharmacy pays the wholesaler €118 for a particular drug, it then adds on an agreed €3.26 dispensing fee, making for a total drug price of €121.26. Under the old methodology, the HSE would have refunded that full amount to the pharmacist. However, in this example, the HSE now only refunds about €112.26, meaning the pharmacist pays more for the drug than they are reimbursed by the HSE, resulting in the pharmacist losing money if they continue dispensing drugs to medical card holders. BASED in Donegal town, Joe Britton runs the pharmacy his late father established about 40 years ago. By the end of June, he reckons he'll be facing a stark decision on whether or not he'll have to cut back on staff numbers -- and he's never had to fire anyone from the store before. About 82pc of his business is generated from medical card holders and he estimates that he'll lose about €240,000 a year if the lower drug payment margins continue. "I pay about €400,000 in wages every year to 15 staff, about 11 of whom are full-time," he says. "It's a lot of money that the shop puts into the community." Mr Britton has already sat down with staff, some of whom have young families and have recently bought houses, to tell them they're looking at an uncertain future. "I'm a company director, so I can't trade recklessly by losing money," says Mr Britton. "I can't keep doing what I'm doing in terms of the service provided to customers if the HSE doesn't roll back on this," he adds. Mr Britton, as with other pharmacists, says that the sector routinely helps local hospitals by talking with customers to ensure they're taking the correct medication at the proper times, and identifying ailments that might otherwise have led customers to clog up already busy accident and emergency wards. He already carries costs that the HSE doesn't refund, particularly on refrigerated products that wholesalers won't accept for refunds. "I had one cancer patient who needed special and expensive drugs to treat their blood while on chemotherapy," he explains. "I'd ordered them and received the delivery, but then the patient's doctor subsequently decided on an alternative drug. "That's fine, but I had €5,000 worth of product that eventually had to be destroyed because I can't get a refund on it. The HSE doesn't take that type of thing into account at all." He recalls one staff member being on holiday in Spain recently with a friend who forgot her medication. It is manufactured in Ireland, and cost her €5.35 in Spain. "The cheapest I can buy that specific medication from wholesalers here is for €18.50, but it's the HSE that agrees the factory gate prices with the drug manufacturers." 
