drugs
{ Dion Fanning 
    October 25 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/soccer/tabloids-are-more-effective-drugs-police-than-fa-26236397.html }
THE Premiership has its strut back. After a fortnight of headlines featuring raping, roasting, rodeoing, two-timing, three-timing, high-fiving, gang-banging footballers,  the victories for Manchester United and Chelsea in the Champions' League allowed  English football to think well of itself again. The rape cases, allegedly involving footballers from Leeds and Newcastle, will probably return in great, graphic detail, but football this week felt cleansed. The confirmation that athletics is a sham helped. Sprinter Dwain Chambers' positive test for the new designer steroid THG reminded the sporting world that track and field is a busted flush. Any idea that it remains a true test of sport can be put down as hallucinogenic fantasy. There is a grand jury investigation into the San Francisco laboratory named as the source of the drug, while all samples from the World Championships will be re-tested now that THG can be detected. Top names in athletics may finally be revealed as cheats, while, in Australia, the International Rugby Board has announced that they will test for THG during the World Cup, in a sport which many within the game see as having a problem. Football looks on complacently, insisting that the desire to cheat, to gain an extra ten per cent of fitness by synthetic, dangerous means is not part of the sport. Even most of those who believe Rio Ferdinand should be banned for his failure to attend a drugs test, do not think he was involved in drugs, whereas, in other sports, his absence would have been an admission of guilt. Ferdinand still plays for Manchester United and will do until the hearing process is completed, possibly not until December. He will not be selected for England during that time. "All mitigating circumstances will be taken into account when deciding whether to charge Rio," an FA source told me. That decision is expected sometime this week. "It is a good time for this to happen in football," according to one employee at UK Sport, the organisation responsible for administering the tests. "The FA has a new chief executive and I think it's important that this message has been sent out. Although we have always found the FA very serious about drug testing." Last week, the FA received further evidence from Manchester United, including Ferdinand's phone records, which showed that as he left the training ground he had placed a call to a consultant urologist who had treated him for a kidney complaint. "It's a very strange call to make, unless he was feeling dizzy or had some pain which hasn't been revealed," a doctor said. Ferdinand returned to take the test 36 hours later, in which time - although there is no suggestion that they did - many recreational substances could have passed through his system. English football has increased its testing every year for the past five years. UK Sport took 1256 tests last year at all levels of English football. The FA funds more tests any other organisation, paying for 1,000 of them each year. There has only been one failed test for performance-enhancing drugs, while there have been several failures for cannabis. The FA deny that Ferdinand is the first target of a harder drugs policy implemented by new chief executive, Mark Pallios. "There has been no change in policy since Mark took over. It was decided it was inappropriate for Ferdinand to play for England and if any previous case had involved an international, the same decision would have been taken." The Ferdinand affair has highlighted the flaws in the testing of footballers. Last weekend, Arsene Wenger called for the testing to be stepped up. "There are some players at my club and they have never been tested in the seven years I have been here." Wenger said Alex Ferguson had backed this call when he made it at a UEFA meeting, and United have been vocal in their opposition to drugs in football. The players I talked to last week had all been tested, but each felt that the level could be increased without causing any hardship to the players. None could comprehend a situation where a player could leave without being tested, once he had been picked by the testers. None believed that there was a problem with drugs in football. WHEN English footballers joined Italian clubs in the 1980s, they found a different culture. It was, Ian Rush said, "like playing in another country." Lager was out, steak and chips were out and pasta was seen as performance-enhancing. The Italian footballer may have had a glass of wine with his pre-match meal but the chances of him joining his English colleague for a curry and beer after the game were non-existent. In 1986, Graeme Souness returned from two years as a player in Italy. He introduced the methods he'd experienced in Italy as manager at Rangers and Liverpool. It worked in Scotland - albeit with a high turnover of players - but at Liverpool players rebelled against the discipline which included a ban on golf and put strange food on the diet. It was only when Wenger arrived at Arsenal a few years later that English football learned to love the new ideas, helped by the painful lessons on their return to Europe following the Heysel ban. The British belief that no country could match their players for physique and heart did not withstand their re-introduction to European ways. Italian clubs, in particular, were stronger, faster, fitter. The Italians claimed they were training smarter. English players started eating pasta, steaming vegetables, cutting out the lager (or trying to) and they got fitter. "Players used to eat steak and chips before a match and maybe have a couple of pints the night before a game," says Andy Reid, Nottingham Forest's Irish winger. "That doesn't happen any more and it's why the game is so much faster and players are much fitter." Some of the Italians stayed smarter. Last year an Italian court heard evidence that the medical room at Juventus's training camp had nearly three hundred types of medicine. Antonio Giraudo, the general manager, and Riccardo Agricola, the club doctor, were charged with systematically providing and administering illegal drugs to players between 1994 and 1998. One expert told the tribunal that many of the drugs were administered as a cocktail: players with no evidence of mental problems were given anti-depressants and other supplements to control the side-effects. "The conduct of the clinic was not always for the good of the patient, ethically or therapeutically," Adriana Ceci, from the University of Genoa, told the court. Nothing has been proved, or is likely to be, as the case drags on, but as English clubs insist that there is not a problem with drugs in football, for them may be competing with other countries where they are more ruthless and less scrupulous in achieving their goals. The investigation in Italy discovered, for example, that former Juve midfielder, Didier Deschamps, had a cell reading of 51.2 per cent, which was high enough to suggest the presence of EPO and would have prohibited him from taking part in the Tour de France, which knows a thing or two about drug-enhanced performance. Deschamps was known as the water-carrier during his time as French World Cup-winning captain, but the reading, hinted that he may have been aided in his lugging. Drugs can't aid skill which is why many have felt they wouldn't catch on in football, but the assistance something like EPO can give to a player's stamina has been noted. In the Premiership, the attitude remains straightforward. "The mentality is work hard, train hard and the results will come," says Liverpool's Richie Partridge, who has been drug-tested twice, but not since he was a youth team player. "I've heard of people taking creatine, but that's legal and I've never even heard talk of anything else." Drugs are not an issue, the players say. "To be honest, it hasn't been a topic of conversation," Ireland's captain Kenny Cunningham claims. He has been tested once at international level and twice after domestic games. They were testing at his club, Birmingham City, last weekend, where Christophe Dugarry, who tested positive for nandrolone while at Marseille, is a team-mate. As an indication of how little footballers in England discuss drugs, Cunningham was unaware of Dugarry's failed test. 'I grew up seeing junkies in the neighbourhood so I suppose I'm a bit more streetwise'  Andy Reid "They should increase the testing, I wouldn't have a problem with that - no player would," Cunningham says, "but I've never felt that it's a big issue. There may be a small percentage involved with recreational drugs but I don't know of any. They will take a chance because the likelihood of being tested is so small." Matt Holland was never tested until three years ago, but since then he has given samples at the training ground and after matches "about five or six times." Andy Reid was tested three times last year, twice in three weeks, but he feels the system works. "I've never, ever heard of any footballer taking drugs." As regards supplements, he listens to the club's nutritionist. "If she says to me I have to take something, I have to trust her." He has heard of players being offered recreational drugs, "not because they were footballers, but because they were in a club and the drugs were being offered to everyone. I grew up seeing junkies in the neighbourhood so I suppose I'm a bit more streetwise than some lads, but most of them have the sense to stay away from that stuff. "Anyway, how could any player do it? If he did it would be all over the papers. Players are in the papers every day. If one of them was taking cocaine, he'd get caught." In English footballs, the tabloids police the game as effectively as its authorities. 
