drugs
{ Tom Brady 
    March 26 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/cab-targets-drug-lieutenants-26056329.html }
But middle ranking garda representative criticises judges for not jailing more convicts The role of the highly successful Criminal Assets Bureau is to be expanded to target assets of "lieutenants" in drug trafficking gangs. This was disclosed last night by Justice Minister John O'Donoghue as part of a series of measures to beef up resources in the war on drug dealing. The minister said middle-ranking criminals played a vital role in drug dealing and tackling them would break the link between drug abuser and large scale supplier. He added that drug dealers feared the loss of their profits more than losing their freedom and the activities of the CAB had ensured such fear had been realised for many major players. He pledged if Fianna Fail was returned to power after the general election, it would: * Increase garda resources and manpower in local drug task force areas; * Establish a co-ordinating framework for drugs policy in each garda district to liaise with the community and act as an information source for parents and members of the public; * Ensure each garda district produced a drug policing plan to include multi-agency participation in targeting drug dealers; * Set up local drug units in additional areas and implement operations similar to Dochas, Nightcap and Cleanstreet to tackle street dealing. Mr O'Donoghue told the annual conference of the Association of Garda Sergeants and Inspectors (AGSI) in Limerick that over the past five years the environment in which organised crime operated had been radically changed. Major criminal gangs had been smashed, drug barons fled the country and prominent criminals prosecuted and jailed. But dealing with the drugs problem was not solely about combating supply and gardai had a key role to play in implementing a comprehensive national drugs strategy to pursue a partnership approach with the community. Meanwhile, judges who failed to send convicted drug pushers to jail were rapped by gardai yesterday. The judges came under attack as it was claimed there was a link between levels of drug trafficking locally and the attitude adopted by courts. Last year gardai made 2,124 detections for the possession of drugs for sale or supply and in the previous year seized well over half a million ecstasy tablets and more than half a million grammes of cannabis. But the AGSI want Justice Minister John O'Donoghue to ensure there is a uniform sentencing policy for drug pushers so traffickers know if they are caught they will go to jail. "There is no other way of dealing with this menace," Association President Joe Dirwan told conference last night. He accused courts not imposing real sanctions of "letting down society". And he added: "They are not applying a deterrent to drug dealing and the availability and use of all types of drugs is increasing in those areas. The levels of drugs is higher where judges are not sending those convicted to jail." 
