drugs
{  
    February 28 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/gardai-colluded-with-drug-dealer-26258295.html }
THE Assistant Garda Commissioner, Tony Hickey, has confirmed that he was dispatched by Commissioner Pat Byrne to the south of the country to investigate allegations of garda collusion with a drug-dealer reported to have worked as a ``special agent'' for the gardaí. THE Assistant Garda Commissioner, Tony Hickey, has confirmed that he was dispatched by Commissioner Pat Byrne to the south of the country to investigate allegations of garda collusion with a drug-dealer reported to have worked as a ``special agent'' for the gardaí. A former garda has alleged that certain named gardaí allowed significant consignments of drugs to pass through this ``special agent'' and into the hands of one of the biggest drugs distribution empires in the country. The ex-garda was also part of the operation and claims that officers allowed the drugs through in return for a significant number of ``seizures'' made by gardaí. Assistant Commissioner Hickey told the Sunday Independent that he had been sent on a ``fact-finding mission'' by Commissioner Byrne, after the same allegations being made by the former garda surfaced in a report by a member of the Customs National Drugs Unit. The inquiry was ordered because the garda authorities were concerned about certain individuals and because gardaí wanted to investigate underworld rumours that the gun used to murder Sunday Independent journalist Veronica Guerin had been recovered in the area. Mr Hickey said that this rumour was a serious concern for the gardaí but that ballistics examination of a number of guns found ruled it out beyond dispute. The Assistant Commissioner explained that charges were not brought in relation to the guns and ammunition recovered because they had been handed in to gardaí. Foul play was not suspected, he stressed. The Sunday Independent has learned that the garda told his Inspector he could ``take no more'' of the dealings between the ``special agent'' and the gardaí. He informed his superior officer that he had 13 hours of taped conversations with the ``special agent'' containing extensive details of his alleged work on behalf of the gardaí. The next morning, a senior officer from the division contacted the garda, who admits he made the tapes without the knowledge of the ``special agent'', and told him they could burn the tapes together. The garda gave a copy of the tapes to his superior officer, but the original tapes remain in a safe in a solicitor's office in the south of the country. Asst Commissioner Hickey said he could not talk on the subject of any ``special agent'' who may have worked for the gardaí and denied that his fact-finding mission had uncovered any evidence to substantiate the claims that gardaí assisted a ``special agent'' courier in return for seizing portions of his drugs or in return for an opportunity to capture more senior figures in the gang. Referring to the allegations, the Asst Commissioner replied: ``There is no evidence that consignments, or parts of consignments, of drugs went missing after we seized them. That couldn't possibly happen.'' HOWEVER, the ex-garda has provided detailed accounts of incidents in which he claims some of his colleagues created opportunities for the ``special agent'' to pass through checkpoints, knowing that he was carrying drugs destined for the gang. Two of the former garda's colleagues and a customs officer who were involved in the operations regarding the courier and the drug-dealing gang, have confirmed his claims. One garda was unwilling to go on the record, but stated that he had already taken his own legal advice, and would give evidence ``if it goes to a tribunal''. This garda added: ``What happened here is the stuff of Star Wars. Anybody would have a hard time believing it, but it did happen. It's big brother stuff. It has the potential to bring down a government. If I am subpoenaed to give evidence, I will tell the truth.'' THE customs official was unwilling to discuss what happened in his area, stating: ``I will only talk if it comes to a tribunal of inquiry.'' The courier and ``special agent'' for the gardaí continues to live in a palatial house in the area, although he has no visible means of income. He was unwilling to talk to the Sunday Independent, declaring: ``I can't talk about this. What's in it for me? This stuff is too dangerous. You get a great story out of it, but my life is at risk and my wife's life is at risk. ``The people we are dealing with here [the criminals for whom he couriered] would kill me in an instant if I talked. There's too much at risk for me to talk.'' Because of the refusal of certain people involved to go on the record, the exact locations cannot be given where the following incidents alleged by the former garda took place. * The first drugs run which the former garda says was made with the knowledge of his colleagues occurred in 1995. The courier was instructed to drive to a motel in Arnheim, outside Amsterdam, and to leave the keys in his rented car and return ten minutes later. When the courier returned, he found Samsonite suitcases containing in the region of 100 kilos of cannabis in the car. He returned to an Irish port and was allegedly told by Drug Squad officers to drive to the back of a certain garda station and to leave the car there. The man was then brought home by the former garda and the following morning he (the courier) met with the second-in-command of the drugs gang and told him he had hired a driver to take the drugs from Amsterdam. The courier received several thousand pounds and promised to drop the drugs at a specified location the following day. That day, gardaí reported seizing a substantial quantity of the 100 kilos of cannabis from a number of men at a specific area. There was no mention of the remainder of the drugs which the former garda says were brought in by the courier. * That same year, the former garda says that he was present when the courier was given assurances by certain officers that gardaí would not get involved when he returned from a trip through Holland, Belgium, France and Britain with another drugs consignment. This time he was carrying thousands of ecstasy tablets and close to 100 kilos of cannabis. However, the former garda insists that when the courier returned to an Irish port, officers were waiting for him and allegedly took the drugs from him. THE day after that, when the courier returned to the county where he lives, he had a meeting with a senior officer, who allegedly told him that he could keep some of the consignment to give to his drugs boss in order to protect his life and his dealings with the gardaí. The next day, the man dropped the ecstasy tablets at a location pre-arranged with gardaí and was ``arrested''. There was no mention of the cannabis. * On another occasion, customs officers attempted to search the man's car as he disembarked at an Irish port, but two gardaí are said to have jumped into the car and driven it away. Senior sources confirmed that ``an incident like that'' did occur, but refused to elaborate. * Another time the courier said that he handed to gardaí the keys to a van containing 100 kilos of cannabis, which had been transported to Ireland by another driver and which he was due to collect.  The courier said that when the van was returned to him, 10 kilos of cannabis were missing. 
