drugs
{  
    July 25 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/dedicated-garda-drugs-unit-has-had-successes-with-seizures-26906044.html }
The establishment of a designated Drugs Unit in Dundalk in March this year has not only yielded excellent results in terms of seizures, and greater detection in the individual use of drugs but has given Gardai a better understanding of the drugs problem in town.Dundalk is not awash with drugs, nor is the problem any better or  worse than any other town, said Detec The establishment of a designated Drugs Unit in Dundalk in March this year has not only yielded excellent results in terms of seizures, and greater detection in the individual use of drugs but has given Gardai a better understanding of the drugs problem in town. “Dundalk is not awash with drugs, nor is the problem any better or worse than any other town,” said Detective Sergeant, Brian Mohan, head of the Unit, but he did add “there is greater use of hard drugs, such as cocaine and heroin in recent times which is deeply worrying”. The worrying aspect, from Sergt. Mohan’s viewpoint, is the seemingly almost natural progression to usage of hard drugs. “Up until recent years softer drugs such as marijuana were in vogue, now with the current generation it is the harder drugs. My worry is what comes next? “ It is for that reason that Sergt. Mohan welcomes the setting up of the town’s first Drugs Unit to try and tackle the problem of supply and growing usage, and to support the various agencies, voluntary bodies and parents groups that are trying to help those already addicted and to try and encourage young people not to experiment with drugs. “It is a five person unit,” Sergt. Mohan explained, “composed of two permanent officers and three officers who rotate on a voluntary basis from each uniformed unit in the station. In that way each unit has first hand experience of the drugs scene in the area, how to recognise and detect drugs, and known users and suppliers”. Already there have been considerable success in drugs seizures, the latest some weeks ago in which a consignment valued at ?20,000 was uncovered in a local housing estate with the file in that case currently awaiting the DPP’s instructions. But in addition more stop and search operations are being undertaken because of the expertise that has been acquired in the town since the establishment of the unit. “This will, we hope, lead to reduction in demand and usage,” said Sergt. Mohan, “for remember we have only to get lucky once when we stop and search”. Currently two of the biggest suppliers in this area are serving long term prison sentences but this hasn’t curtailed the flow of drugs reaching the streets. “There will always be someone to step into the breach for it is such a lucrative business that there will always be those tempted by the money,” said the Sergeant. Clubs, pubs and schools are the best outlets for the suppliers, but the Gardai are satisfied with the co-operation they receive from club owners and most publicans in trying to keep the suppliers out of their premises. “They have a legal obligation to do so, but in general they co-operate with programmes we run with the Health Board to help identify suppliers and the drugs themselves and most club owners and publicans want their premises to be free of drugs,” he says. The Garda Drugs unit is also deeply involved with the Local Education Committee which is initiating programmes to make children more aware of the risks of drugs and alcohol abuse, and Sergeant Mohan welcomes this involvement, but he says “while all of these programme are invaluable, essentially it all boils down to parental control and advice. Parents must press home to their children that they have to be strong to stand up to peer pressure and that if they do so they are not exceptional or alone, but that they are showing an example to others”. While most teenagers are targets for drug suppliers, it is Sergt. Mohan’s experience that most are not tempted and are sensible enough to know the risks. He does not believe that shock media campaigns highlighting the dangers of drug abuse have that much impact for he says “young people live for the here and now, they never think of the future. But they are also very sensible in many cases and know to stay away from situations where they might be tempted”. The Drugs Unit is also engaged in trying to close off the avenues of alcohol supplies to young people and recently have taken two successful prosecutions, one against a supermarket, the other an off-licence, for supplying drink to underage persons. “We will continue to target these illegally supplying alcohol for in my opinion drink is a far greater evil than drugs. Drink is the gateway to drugs. I have yet to meet a drug addict that hasn’t started with alcohol and we must try harder to stop the supply of alcohol to people underage”. He knows that it is a difficult task, almost like plugging a hole in a dyke, but it is a task that must be tackled. A start has been made locally following meetings with the vintners to ensure ‘dial a drink’ outlets are not supplying underage drinkers and the local taxi owners to seek their co-operation to ensure that they are not delivering drink to those under age. But the Gardai need the help of the public to help their campaign. ”We rely heavily on the information we receive from the public and if people have information that they feel might be helpful in terms of their suspicions about drug or drink suppliers they should pass that information on to us in confidence for we now have the resources to follow up on that information,” said the Sergt. Sadly the drug culture is reaching into every level of society in Dundalk and is by no means confined to the large housing estates, or what would be regarded as the deprived areas. It is touching the lives of more and more families leaving havoc in its wake. “Your heart would go out to some of the parents,” said Sergt. Mohan, who is continually approached in the forlorn hope of finding a solution. “Basically there is no quick fix, those using drugs must decide themselves that they want to quit. But while there are programmes to help the drug addicts, there is little or no support for the family and for that reason I would like to see a family support service established in the area”. He feels that the service could be a useful outlet for families to share their experience and to help discover if there is one, or a combination of measures that could be taken by families to help their children become involved in rehabilitation programmes. “It may well be that shock tactics like putting the drug user out of the home can bring them to the realisation that they need help, but in other instances this may not work,” he said, adding that it was through talking about their experiences that families could help each other and get the professional help they needed. “We all know from experiences round the world that there is no easy solution to this problem, but we all must continue to strive to do our best for the consequences for the families and individuals are obvious,” he concluded. 
