drugs
{  
    September 03 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/drugs-cash-smuggled-in-kids-holiday-backpacks-26212155.html }
JIM CUSACK THE next time you see passengers waiting for a holiday flight to Malaga or Alicante, look at the number of children with colourful back-packs on their backs. Most - all, you might hope - contained cherished toys being brought on holiday. But some, according to Garda and crime world sources, are filled with cash from drug-trafficking. The kiddie back-pack is now believed to be one of the most common ways that drugs cash is transported out of this country to Spanishholiday resorts, where it is transferred into other drug deals or the acquisition ofholiday homes. Both "ordinary" and Republican criminals from Dublin are known to have used this method to transfer funds from Ireland to the Spanish holiday-resort safe havens. The reason for using children is that few Customs or Garda officers are likely to stop a three-year-old and ask to look in his or her shiny new back-pack. The official would look like an ogre if all that was found was a teddy bear. According to usually reliable sources, the method of using children to transport cash has been going on for the last few years. Elderly relatives of drugs-traffickers are also used to transport and launder money. This expediency has come into place since the Criminal Assets Bureau cut off the domestic routes of transferring profits into property or businesses in Ireland. The cash now goes off-shore, a great deal of it through Dublin Airport to Alicante and Malaga on holiday package flights. The couriers are rarely direct family members of the main drug dealers who choose instead cousins, in-laws, or even neighbours, who are offered free holidays in villas bought by the criminals. The people who are prepared to exploit childrenin this way - effectively turning three- and four-year-olds into drug cash couriers - are the type of person giving Ireland a bad name in some of the resorts in the Vega Baja coastal region. Once in Spain, the criminals live hedonistic, drug-and drink-soaked lives. They have lots of cash and are a blight in some of the more expensive developments where their neighbours had bought homes to escape the all-night barrage of loud music and loutish behaviour in the centres of the main resorts.The ?200,000-plus 'villa' is the preferred home of the Irish criminal or ex-Provo on the Costa. In the past few years, dozens of these homes have been acquired and all are untouchable by the Criminal Assets Bureau. Spain does not have compatible assets seizure laws, and though the CAB could take civil actions against suspected drug dealers, it would be hugely time-consuming and complex. It is partly as a result of the frustration of CAB and its British counterpart, the Assets Recovery Agency, at the flight of drug cash from both countries to Spain that Ireland and Britain are pushing for the extension of the assets seizure legislation across the European Union. At present, the police forces of the majority of EU states are in favour of introducing the legislation, but there is ambivalence at Government level in several major states. At best, according to Garda sources, it might be at least a decade before EU-wide legislation will come about to stop the flight of drugs cash to the safe haven of another country within the European Union. Until then, Ireland's criminals and paramilitaries have the south east coastal resorts of Spain to flee to every year to enjoy their ill-gotten gains. One feature of this annual migration of criminals andex-terrorists is that Irelandis also exporting someof the more murderous features associated with organised crime. In the past 19 months, three major Dublin drug dealers have disappeared in the Alicante area and all three are presumed dead. Two, former 'Westies' leaders Shane Coates, 31, and Stephen Sugg, 26, are believed to have been kidnapped from their apartment in Torrevieja in February last year. At first, gardai believed they may have assumed new aliases and gone to ground. But information that has emerged in recent months suggests the two were murdered. It is also suspected that the IRA, rather than rival drug-traffickers, may have been responsible. Coates and Sugg had a serious run-in with the IRA and it is believed that this, rather than the threat from rival drug dealers or, in Coates's case, of being charged with firearms offences, might have drive them to seek refuge in Spain at the end of 2003. What happened to them is, as yet, unproven. They were last seen being driven - it is believed at gunpoint - from their apartment after one of their usual cocaine- and drink-fuelled late night parties. They were never seen again. Then last September, Sean Dunne, another drug dealer from Blanchardstown who had survived two attempts on his life in Dublin, also disappeared. It is believed Dunne, 28, who had been living near Rojales was abducted, murdered and secretly buried somewhere in the Costa Blanca countryside. Following his disappearance and presumed murder, the Spanish police issued a statement saying they suspected former Irish paramilitaries, either republican or loyalist, were involved. A further aspect of the exported criminality is that republicans with IRA or INLA backgrounds are known to be mixing with members and ex-members of the Ulster Defence Association, the North's biggest drugs traffickers. The fact that Ireland continues to be awash with illegal drugs, despite the introduction of criminal assets seizure legislation north and south, is mainly due to the fact that organised criminals have been able to set up bases in the east coast resorts of Spain and run their businesses from there. Ireland is the market place for their drugs but the wheeling and dealing is done in the bars, clubs and villas bought with the wads of cash moved out of this country. In effect, the criminal assets legislation, brought in after the murder of Veronica Guerin, succeeded in preventing criminals laundering their money in this country. But, it has not stopped the flow of drugs and the criminals are now laundering their profits and reinvesting their money in ever bigger drug deals at the hub of Europe's drugs trade. 
