drugs
{ By Maria Pepper 
    January 21 2017 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/news/minister-launches-online-drugs-course-35372062.html }
The Minister of State for Communities and the National Drugs Strategy, Catherine Byrne has called for a stronger emphasis in the school curriculum on the well-being of young people, especially in relation to the use of alcohol and drugs. Minister Byrne was speaking at the launch of a new online training programme to help frontline staff of organisations and services in the south east engage with people who have drug or alcohol-related issues and direct them towards help. The ICT (Information Communications Technology) portal was developed by the Cornmarket Project and Wexford Local Development which were awarded a tender for the early intervention initiative in early 2016 by the HSE and the South East Regional Drugs and Alcohol Task Force with funding from the Dormant Accounts Fund through Pobal, the Department of Health and the HSE. Deputy Byrne congratulated the Cornmarket Project and the South East Task Force on the programme, saying she is keenly aware from her own work at community level, that drug and alcohol misuse is a complex and challenging issue with damaging consequences for users, their families and the wider community. 'I've stood at too many funerals of people who have died before their time,' she said. She called for an expansion of the SPHE (Social, Personal and Health Education) programme in second level schools to provide a stronger focus on teenage well-being and the attitude of young people to alcohol and drugs. 'Of concern is the fact that men and those aged between 15 and 25 have the highest recent use of illegal drugs. There is a continuing need for preventative measures that focus on young people, particularly young men, their families and communities,' she said. Minister Byrne who is a mother and grandmother also spoke about the harmful use of alcohol and the serious consequences it has for health and well-being as well as its implication in over a third of deaths caused by drug poisoning. She is especially concerned as a parent about the more recent tendency of young people to drink at home before they go out to a pub or nightclub. 'There was a time when alcohol wasn't so prevalent in the home. Some young people feel they have to be tanked up before they go out. I think that is a concern,' she said. The South East Regional Drug and Alcohol Task Force received €40,000 from the Dormant Accounts Fund for the new Training and Awareness ICT Portal which includes online training modules and a web-based knowledge portal at www.southeastdrugsinfo.ie aimed at staff who may come into contact with those experiencing problems as a result of drug or alcohol use. The eLearning courses are designed to support those who work in non-addiction related services including education and training, employment and labour services, community development, family support, criminal justice and offenders, health care, youth services, housing and homelessness and social and family services. Paul Delaney, co-ordinator of the Wexford addiction treatment and rehabilitation service Cornmarket Project whict developed the ICT programme said the drugs problem in the south east, like the rest of the country, has changed considerably in the past few years. 'When I first started working in Wexford twenty years ago, alcohol, cannabis, ecstasy, and to a lesser extent heroin were the main substances that were misused,' he said. 'Now, we have a changed landscape with drugs labelled as bath salts or plant food being bought over the internet or illegally imported by dealers. These illegal drugs have street names such as snow blow, anmnihilation, bounce, vanilla sky and dozens more.' 'If we take the drug 'annihilation' for instance, this is now a commonly used illegal substance in Wexford and throughout the south east and is sold on the internet as herbal incense. However, it is a new form of synthetic cannabis that can bring about panic attacks and convulsions for the user.' Mr. Delaney said it is time to fight back against this new wave of drugs, using the same technology that is being used to market these drugs in the first place. 'Our online course will help train staff in how best to deal with instances of substance misuse and how to make an effective early intervention,' he said, adding that one does not have to be an addiction specialist to make a brief and effective intervention with someone you suspect has a drug or alcohol problem. 'Research shows that early intervention can be hugely effective in supporting people and diverting them away from long term drug use.' The courses are now ready to run and 400 places will be made available through the South East Regional Drug and Alcohol Task Force over the next few months. Certificates will be issued to those who successfully undertake and complete a course. Wexford People 
