drugs
{ Margaret Roddy 
    March 11 2017 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/major-garda-operation-targets-drug-dealers-35509101.html }
Operation Varlet, which targeted 30 suspected drug dealers operating in the Dundalk area last week, was launched in response to concerns about the untold damage wreaked on local communities by the drugs trade.  This was, and is, a major operation which began almost a year ago, and involves local gardai along with regional support units and the Drugs and Organised Crime Bureau. Extra resources have been provided to help gardai take on those drug dealers who 'having a hugely detrimental effect on the community and peoples lives'.  Heroin, cannabis, 'benzo's and other prescription tablets were among the drugs seized during the operation which is on-going. Chief Supt Sean Ward, Louth Division, told a specially convened press conference in Dundalk Garda Station last Tuesday afternoon that the arrests of 13 suspected drug dealers that morning was the culmination of the months of covert and overt operations. 'This is an extremely successful operation for the town of Dundalk and the county,' he said. It  had come about because of 'community concerns particularly about drug dealing, particularly heroin in Dundalk.'  The problem had also been raised at Joint Policing Committee meetings, by public representatives and members of the gardai themselves. Since Operation Varlet was set up, significant additional manpower was allocated to Dundalk by the Garda Commissioner, which was 'very, very welcome,' continued Chief Supt Ward.   It had been set up to target drug dealers in Dundalk who were having 'a hugely detrimental effect on the community and on people's lives.' He explained that the operation involved covert and overt operations as well as gardai in uniform having a high visible presence around town. In addition to the garda operation on the streets, it was important to provide support to the local Drugs and Alcohol Forum. Drug dealing impacts on the community of Dundalk and drugs intimidation is an serious issue, he continued. He appealed to anyone who was a victim of drug dealing to contact the gardai, as there is a Inspector based in Ardee who deals with this issue. They would appreciate any information regarding the sale or supply of drugs in Dundalk, he said. Supt Gerry Curley, Dundalk stressed that Operation Varlet will be on going and that it was hoped to follow with the rest of more suspected drug dealers.  Among the 13 arrested that morning were men, women and juveniles.  Some of those arrested were  involved in 'the serious drugs trade' while others were smaller suppliers.  Due to the nature of the drugs trade, he confirmed that there would be contact between different groups of drug dealers throughout the country and there would be some element of a cross-border nature. 'We will continue in arrest mode until everybody is arrested,' he declared, He also spoke of the 'untold harm' done to the community by the sale and supply of drugs, which creates havoc in communities. People had highlighted to the gardai the effects which drug dealing has on their areas.  He cited  incidents where shots and pipe bombs were fired at houses in built up areas. He thanked the community for their support and pledged that  the gardai will continue to focus their efforts on those involved in this activity.  The Argus 
