drugs
{ Maeve Sheehan 
    August 18 2013 03:04 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/maeve-sheehan-their-ibiza-party-is-over-as-girls-now-face-the-music-29507533.html }
HOW does a young woman from the border counties end up behind bars in Peru while on summer holidays in Ibiza? According to Michaella McCollum Connolly, 20, it's all down to bad luck. One minute she was partying on the Spanish island of Ibiza, glamming up for photos that she posted on her Facebook page, checking in with her family every few days. Then one night, she accepted a drink from the wrong guy and disappeared off the radar. She surfaced almost two weeks later, behind bars on drug-trafficking charges 6,000 miles away in Peru, with her new Scottish friend, Melissa Reid. From their jail cell, the young women have claimed that they were kidnapped, held at gunpoint and forced onto a plane to Peru to collect 11kg of cocaine worth €1.7m, under the threatening watch of the criminal gang. This alarming story of how they ended up behind bars has been spun as a cautionary tale to young revellers who flock to party islands like Ibiza on the dangers of falling in with the wrong crowd. But were Michaella and Melissa really innocents abroad? An investigation by the Sunday Independent this weekend reveals an Ibiza in which young women are hired by nightclubs to entice in punters. There were stories of fun-loving girls who flirted on the edge of danger but who got dragged in out of their depth. It now appears that Michaella may have been amongst them. She got caught up in the island's hedonistic party scene, hung out with drug users and allegedly ran up debts of €4,000 to a drug dealer who demanded she do the Peruvian drugs run as payback. Michaella and her friend, Melissa Reid, deny drug trafficking but they will have a long wait to clear their name. They are looking at a drawn-out investigation, after which they will probably do time in the notorious Santa Monica prison, where bribery rules. They have already spent almost two weeks in custody, have yet to appear in court and could wait up to three years for a trial. Speculation about possible jail sentences ranges from eight to 25 years. Video footage of the women in custody last week suggested that this was too much for them to take in. In a reminder of just how young they are, they scoffed doughnuts straight from the wrapping paper like hungry children as they discussed a possible interview with a journalist who had caught up with them in a police corridor. Melissa looked drawn and pale. Michaella seemed quite the elegant young woman, with her striking top knot and shawl. But as she dug into her doughnut, laughing and smiling, it seemed that the seriousness of her predicament still hadn't sunk in. Michaella McCollum was born in Monaghan, the youngest child of Nora and Robert McCollum, a former soldier. The family later moved across the border to Dungannon in Co Tyrone. Her sister said theirs was a normal loving family and the local parish priest, Dean Colum Curry, has been calling on her parents to offer his solace and comfort. After school, she enrolled in a photography course in Belfast Metropolitan College but dropped out two years ago. Michaella still posted on her Facebook page that she was a photography student there but the college said this weekend that she had not been a student of theirs since 2011. She stayed in Belfast, where she worked in various jobs and shared a flat with friends. She is no shrinking violet. She has variously been described as a model, a nightclub hostess and a dancer. Judging from the many pictures she posted on her Facebook page, she liked dressing up. One snap shows her posing in a chest plate and biting provocatively on a whip. Others show her posing in jewelled bikinis and in heavy costume make-up. Michaella decided to spend the summer in the Spanish party island of Ibiza, clubbing capital of the world and haunt of celebrities and rock stars. In mid-June, she boarded a flight to begin her summer adventure. According to her sister Stephanie, she found a place to live in San Antonio Bay, on the west side of the island. On Facebook, she wrote that she would be working at the Bay Bar, in the throbbing west end of San Antonio. But a staff member told a newspaper last week that this wasn't quite true. She had just done some 'PR' for a couple of nights, standing outside nightclubs, handing out fliers to entice punters inside. She apparently gave it a go for a couple of nights but didn't show up again. Our investigation has revealed that Michaella was increasingly drawn into a world of casual drug use and soon got in over her head. Although she was only in Ibiza for six weeks, she ran up a drug debt of around €4,000 owed to an Englishman with whom she had been hanging around. Her family knew nothing of this. According to her sister Stephanie, Michaella phoned home every second or third day and regularly updated her Facebook page. When exactly she went missing is unclear. It appears that her family last heard from her on July 27, a Saturday. There was no activity on her Facebook page, no fresh photos chronicling her latest beach outfit. By early August, her sisters started making inquiries through her friends on social media. Word came back that Michaella had left the island for mainland Spain but her family didn't know if these reports were true. On August 5, her sister sent out an alert through social media, saying her family hadn't heard from her in nine days. "Her phone is off and her Facebook page has had no activity. She has been living in Ibiza in Spain for the last few weeks. The last reports of Michaella was that she may have been in Barcelona or Madrid. These reports may or may not be true. None of Michaella's new friends in Ibiza have been able to contact her." On August 6, Ibiza clubbers started spreading the online message about the missing dark-haired, 5ft 8ins Northern Irish girl. On August 7, the Department of Foreign Affairs was informed and Michaella's "disappearance" hit the newspapers. Another sister, Samantha, circulated an online message, thanking people for their support. By then, Samantha's missing sister was entering her third day in police custody in Lima on charges of drug trafficking, along with her Scottish travelling companion Melissa Reid. On Tuesday, August 6, they had stood in line with their luggage at Lima's international airport for a flight to Madrid. Police patrolled the queue of travellers with sniffer dogs, who paused in front of Michaella and Melissa. They were hauled out of the queue and their bags searched. Cocaine worth an estimated €1.7m was found stuffed inside boxes of Quaker oats, wrapped in clothing. A statement issued by Peru's National Police Force said: "Police searched the women's luggage. "They found 18 packets of food products, with cocaine which weighed 5.78kg in Melissa Reid's suitcases. Sixteen packets of food products with cocaine weighing 5.81kg were found in Michaella McCollum Connolly's suitcases. "They were arrested at one of the Air Europa check-in desks and intended travelling to Madrid in Spain, with Palma in Majorca being their final destination." Police footage just minutes after the bust showed two nervous-looking young women politely answering questions from a police officer, hands clasped over their luggage. Michaella, in a leather jacket and hair scraped back in a tight top knot, seemed uncomfortable and slightly flushed. Melissa Reid seemed more collected. "You were travelling to?" "Madrid, Majorca," Melissa answered. "Yes. Which airline?" "Air Europa." "You knew it contained these bags?" "I was forced to take these bags in my luggage." "You knew it contained drugs?" "I did not know that." The police officer then addressed Michaella, who confirmed her destination as Palma and denied any knowledge of the cocaine in her luggage. The first Michaella's family heard of her drug bust was on Thursday evening, when a call came through from officials at the British Foreign Office. A deluge of media coverage has followed since. The McCollums have said little, fearing that any comments they make could jeopardise Michaella's case. Her mother Nora said: "We have been speaking to Michaella. It's a very difficult time. We hadn't heard from her in 12 days and now this." Michaella's sister, Samantha, said the family were "stunned". But the women got an opportunity to tell their alarming version of events early last week, with a Daily Mirror journalist first in to see them while in custody at Dironda Police Station in Lima. One of the questions for investigators is whether their disturbing account adds up. Their story starts with a Londoner who chatted up each of them separately in bars in Ibiza and later delivered them into the hands of a ruthless South American drugs gang. Melissa said: "He was your typical wide-boy, London geezer. He always had a smile on his face and a compliment in his mouth. I was alone when he started chatting to me. He asked my name and then offered me a drink. "We hit it off and so I thought nothing of it when he said we should go to San Antonio. As soon as he had got me away, he struck – he turned from a nice, friendly guy into an aggressive freak. "He told me I was being taken to meet some people in a house. When he led me in, I was threatened with a gun. The men, all South American-looking, didn't speak English but there was no translation needed." By the young woman's account, having snared Melissa, the London man then went back on the prowl in Ibiza for another 'drugs mule' and there he found Michaella. Michaella told reporters: "This guy was so full of fun and convinced me I should party with him. It is only now as I talk to Melissa more and more I know we were set up and handed over by the same man. "He approached us both as we were on nights out and offered to show us a good time in San Antonio. Once I was there, he became aggressive and began ordering me about. The guy was so confident about what he was doing – it can't have been his first time. He's the one who handed us over to the South Americans." Michaella and Melissa said the first time they met was in Majorca in the presence of the South American drugs gang. Melissa was apparently flown to Palma. Michaella was brought there by ferry. While there, and under the shadow of the gang, they were then given cash to buy tickets for Lima and flew to Peru via Madrid. Melissa flew to Lima on an Air Europa flight on August 1. Michaella travelled the next day. Given that they travelled through so many airports, the question arises as to why they didn't try to get the attention of police or customs officers. But as Michaella explained to reporters, they were shadowed by gang members on every step of their journey. "There was always the threat of violence. In the house, the men openly carried guns and would frequently point them at us. We both had a pistol put to our heads with the trigger cocked. "We were crying and would have done anything they said." The gang also had dossiers on their families. "They knew everything about us – who our parents were, what they did, their phone numbers, what friends we had. They even had photos of them and threatened to harm them if we didn't do as they ordered," Michaella said. Their mobile phones were seized and replaced with Blackberries on which they could communicate with the gang. They flew to Cuzco, a popular tourist area, while still being watched by the gang. Melissa said she collected the drugs from a side street beside their hotel on the day before their flight back to Spain. "At that point I didn't know what was in the suitcase," she said. Police in Peru arrested some 240 suspected drugs mules at Lima's airport last year. And the police chief in charge of the anti-drugs unit, Tito Perez, reportedly has reservations about the story told by Melissa and Michaella. He told reporters last week that if they were to sign a confession, they could be out within two years. But Peter Madden, Michaella's solicitor, who also acted for the Columbia Three, said on Friday in Peru that his client would plead not guilty if she is charged. The Irish American Archbishop Sean Walsh advised them to "stick to their story" if they are innocent. He said: "I also told them, equally, that if it was a case that after all, they were guilty, to also tell the truth when they are formally interviewed." The women have had emotional reunions with their families – Michaella's brother, Keith, and Melissa's father, William, are both in Peru. Their presence may well only heighten the distance the women must feel from home. The focus is now turning to the South American drugs gang. The women have reportedly been interviewed by Interpol and showed police the place where they picked up the drugs. Footage from the various airports that they passed through on their travels could also prove useful in helping to identify these mysterious gang members who shadowed the young women on their 6,000-mile journey. The nephew of pop star Phil Collins, who is in jail on cocaine-smuggling charges, has been linked to the gang by Peruvian media. Back in Ibiza, the mysterious Englishman with whom friends say Michaella had been hanging out, has, unsurprisingly, vanished from the scene. Sunday Independent 
