drugs
{ Gene Kerrigan 
    November 12 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/making-a-killing-on-the-market-is-no-big-deal-26418536.html }
HAVE you murdered anyone recently? Michael McDowell believes that thousands of you are   personally   responsible for a series of sordid murders. And some of us think he's right. Sort of. Here's what Michael said: "If you do a line of cocaine in Foxrock, you are personally responsible for the murder of somebody in Clondalkin or Coolock." Not quite, Michael. The people who pull the triggers are personally responsible for the murders. Thousands of their fellow citizens, whose demands fuel the illegal drug business, are indirectly responsible. (Michael's mouth sometimes runs away with itself, but let's not quibble. His point is a valid one.) When we hear Garda reports about drug seizures, they always seem to mention a "street value" of a hundred grand or a million or 10 million or some other such unlikely amount. For a long time, some of us wondered where all that cash was coming from. Is there really that much disposable income in the ghettoes? It's true that heroin has laid waste to swathes of young working-class people, but the illegal drugs market is much bigger than that. Most of the lines of cocaine peddled by our criminal gangs go into the bloodstreams of solid citizens who regard themselves as the backbone of this great little nation. The lawyers, the developers, the estate agents, the accountants, the geniuses from advertising and from marketing, the politicians and the journalists, the musicians and the architects, the hoteliers and the publicans - and their sons and their daughters, their brokers and their bookies, and the people who advise them on art investments, not to mention their lifestyle coaches and their personal trainers. Having established the connection between the murderous drug criminals and their cocaine-snorting customers, Michael stepped back from drawing certain conclusions. When the media discuss drugs, it's in terms of evil drug barons preying on vulnerable society - mindlessly violent, utterly ruthless and rolling in money. To the members of the Southside Dinner Party School of Political Thought, of which Mr McDowell is a charter member, such drug barons might as well be a race of aliens. The drug barons, however, are very much a reflection of the society they serve. Ruthless and rich, yes. Mindlessly violent? Not at all. Their violence is driven by market forces. In their own way, the drug barons are entrepreneurs. They don't fancy working for wages, they're confident and willing to try something and fail and try again. (The consequences of business failure are, of course, far more extreme than those for the graduates of UCD business school.) Given the backgrounds of most of them, the choice of a field of endeavour in which they might get entrepreneurial was limited. It's not as though they are equipped to start up an investment consultancy or try property development or get a gig running a company owned by the father of one of their classmates. There's no chance at all that Mumsy and Popsy will provide the funds to open a little shop in the Grafton Street area. Happily, the recreational needs of the well-off provide openings for people with certain talents. And the sourcing, importation and distribution of illegal drugs requires enterprise and unique business skills. This, in simple capitalist terms, is known as a market. Demand and supply. The people with 'The most effective way to damage the drug business would be to cut the market demand - but that's not going to happen' money make the demands, the market throws up entrepreneurs capable of providing the supply. The killing part of the job isn't a lifestyle choice. Look at yesterday's news, that a Limerick gang has issued contracts worth ?40,000 for the killing of two rivals. One of the reported targets is a killer who controls his gang's arsenal, the other controls the same gang's finances. Nothing mindless there. Call it headhunting, to deplete the competition's human resources assets. The job is being outsourced to specialists (after in-house killers failed to meet their targets). And outside firms will tender for the contracts. (I wouldn't be surprised if there were a few "consultants" involved.) This is business. The fact that such business might involve people called Fat Frankie or Frog Eyes merely adds colour. Of course, the drug products destroy the health of the consumers - take that up with the manufacturers, retailers and advertisers of sugar-filled "cereals" aimed at kids who will develop type 2 diabetes in their 30s. Or the makers of foods laced with salt, so they taste better and sell better - and that screw your blood pressure and set you up for a stroke at 49. That's before we get to cigarettes. Of course, you and me and Michael McDowell want the murderous scumbags off the streets, so drug crime is specially targeted these days, and that's right and proper. (Mind you, it was a long time coming - when heroin was ravaging the ghettos in the Eighties no one in the establishment, apart from a few dedicated coppers, seemed to give a damn.) The most effective way to damage the drug business would be to cut the market demand - but that's not going to happen. Heroin demand is fuelled by despair in the ghettos. Cocaine by the ego and boredom of the well-off. Ecstasy by the adrenaline of the young. Michael McDowell is appealing to everyone to give it up, chaps, and sample instead the delights of an elegant little Beaujolais - well, Mick, that just isn't going to do it. In short, the issues raised by the market for drugs go right to the heart of this society's structure and motivation, and that's something that's way beyondthe capabilities of Michael and his chums. Perhaps we'll get some perspective if we compare the drugs business to another business. Say, construction. Last year, 21 people were killed by guns - not all involving gang business, but it's a thriving market. And 23 people were killed in construction. If you leave aside the effects on consumers (overdoses, aggression, etc), the death rate at a business level is similar. Of course, there are a lot more people working in construction than in sourcing and distributing drugs (at least, I hope so), which would make the death ratio much higher in the drug business. In the drug business, however, the fortunes are made by the entrepreneurs who take the risk of being killed. In construction, the fortunes are made by the developers. And the policing of the drug business is a lot more rigorous than the policing of the construction business. Several years back, Judge Peter Kelly made strenuous efforts to protect the lives of endangered workers ("You are entitled to make profits on the sweat of your workers, but you are not entitled to make a profit on the blood and lives of your workers"). The killing goes on. The construction business is, of course, well in with the current Government, and constant sneers that enterprise is hampered by "regulation" ensures that the hand of the State rests lightly on the shoulder of developers. Why is it that the violent deaths resulting from gang activities upset us so much, while the violent deaths of a similar number in the construction business seem to matter to few outside the trade unions? What is it about this flourishing society that ensures that many who prosper must seek a rush from drugs, even if that means creating a demand that's necessarily met by a murderous gang culture? Why, over a period of decades (despite the warnings of the usual suspects), did we create despair-filled ghettos, from which emerge ferocious people for whom a short, brutal and prosperous life is preferable to anything else on offer? 
