drugs
{  
    November 10 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/courthouse-drugs-bust-27365267.html }
GARDAÍ foiled an attempted drugs smuggling operation at Tralee courthouse this week as a well-known criminal and drugs supplier attempted to pass a large quantity of cannabis to a prisoner.Up to four members of the Garda Divisional Drugs Unit arrived at Tralee Courthouse in plain clothes this week. GARDAÍ foiled an attempted drugs smuggling operation at Tralee courthouse this week as a well-known criminal and drugs supplier attempted to pass a large quantity of cannabis to a prisoner. Up to four members of the Garda Divisional Drugs Unit arrived at Tralee Courthouse in plain clothes this week. They were acting on intelligence that a smuggling operation was about to be launched involving a Tralee-based drugs dealer and a prisoner being held in custody in the holding cells of Tralee Courthouse. As the drugs unit members carried out discreet surveillance on known dealers in the public gallery of the courthouse, several members of the unit suddenly swooped on one prisoner who had been brought from the holding cells of Tralee Courthouse to the dock inside the Circuit Criminal Courtroom. Gardaí and prison officers made their move after they suspected that a defendant awaiting trial, but not in custody, had attempted to pass drugs to another accused person who was already in custody and standing in the dock. All of the defendants were immediately separated. One was quickly returned to the holding cells and the other taken to the back of the courtroom. Judge Carroll Moran adjourned proceedings in the courtroom once the swoop was made. A young Tralee man, who was not involved in the drugs swoop inside the courtroom but who was present in the courthouse at the time, was then taken to Tralee Garda Station and searched. Gardaí seized what they described as “about 40 deals of cannabis” with a street value of about ?500. The brazen smuggling attempt, which was carried out under the eyes of gardaí and the presiding judge, was an effort to get drugs from the streets of Tralee to prisoners inside the courthouse or other prisoners still in prison. Gardaí are now satisfied that they know exactly who the intended drugs recipient was meant to be. He is said to be a young Tralee man who is well known to gardaí and has a history of drugs involvement. The swoop and seizure is a significant success for the drugs unit who foiled one of the few means available to prisoners of feeding their drugs habit in prison. “Getting drugs to a prisoner or into a prison is seen as a nice little coup by criminals,” a garda source said. This is not the first planned swoop made by gardaí in Kerry involving prisoners in custody. Over a year ago, the Garda Drugs Unit foiled an attempted smuggling operation that involved a gang member who attempted to pass drugs hidden in food to a prisoner being held for questioning in Tralee Garda Station. On that occasion gardaí, again acting on intelligence, searchd the food and seized a significant quatity of drugs. 
