drugs
{  
    May 10 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/group-raising-awareness-of-dangers-of-drug-abuse-27475512.html }
The fight against drugs is carried out on four fronts all across the country and in New Ross the Community Based Drugs Initiative (CBDI) constitutes the fourth of these 'pillars'. 'We're not in work to stop the drugs problem, that's the Gardaí's function,' said Tommy Redmond of the CBDI. 'The Supply and Control pillar is the Gardaí and Custom and Excise; the Treatment and Rehabilitation pillar is the counsellors, doctors, nurses, treatment and residential centres; the third pillar is Research and Audit and the fourth pillar is Education and Prevention - that's where we come in,' said Tommy. The CBDI was formed in February 2000 to offer a range of responses to issues of substance misuse in Co. Wexford. 'Our primary purpose is education, prevention and raising awareness of substance misuse in New Ross, Enniscorthy, Gorey and Wexford,' said Tommy, who is responsible for the New Ross and Wexford districts, with Ann Leacy looking after Enniscorthy and Gorey. 'We are employed by the FDYS and Kieran Donoghue, the Director, gives us great scope to expand the work ourselves. 'We have to stay within education, prevention and raising awareness, but we also work with drug users with a view to moving them onto treatment.' The CBDI worker feels that many of the problems in New Ross are alcohol related. 'There is a big underage alcohol problem in New Ross, there's a big underage alcohol problem all over the county really, and I'm talking about ten and eleven year olds, I'm not talking 14 or 15 year olds,' said Tommy. As for other drugs, Tommy says there's heroin in New Ross, but probably not to the same extent as in Gorey or Wexford, while he feels cocaine use is currently more hidden in New Ross than in Wexford town, which is 'a different kettle of fish altogether'. He says that unfortunately there remains a 'big stigma' for people accessing services related to drug misuse. 'First of all they are a bit apprehensive about recognising there's a drug problem in the family, and when they do recognise it then there's a guilt and a stigma attached to the drug misuse. The CBDI worker said that he doesn't see many people aged 18 or under unless 'they get into trouble with the law or if their parents put them into the services'. 'When they're up to 18 or 19 they're enjoying their drug use, they're having a good time. 'You go up to an 18-year-old and tell them, 'for their rest of your life you have to stop drinking and taking drugs' he'll say 'take me out and shoot me'! 'What we're seeing now is that it's mostly 20 or 21-year-olds accessing services themselves and that's more for the dance drugs like cocaine and ecstasy,' said Tommy. The CBDI is very busy these days and Tommy would like to see a drugs worker for the the four districts in Wexford. 'In some counties they have a drugs worker for just one housing estate, but it's changing here now and we have another position coming on to look at peer education in the CBDI and FDYS soon,' he said. 'The only way money is going to come down now for any of the drugs services is through the Regional Drugs Task Forces, it's not coming any other way, that's the way money is being channelled. 'We put in for ?1.4m in projects last year, the government gave us ?500,000 - that's ?1 per head of population in the South East,' said Tommy. 'It's not great, but at least we got a little increase for 2006 and the process is starting, we've four addiction counsellors, two in St. Senan's, and Chris Pernell in New Ross, who is the Substance Misuse Co-ordinator for Co. Wexford, has two counsellors down there as well.' 'A lot of our work in the CBDI is drug awareness programmes, information giving, referrals, one to ones with families and family support. 'We do lot of drug awareness programmes with youth groups too. It's always great when you work with young people because they're on the ground and they know what's going on,' said Tommy. 'However, young people also have an awful lot of false information about stuff, like 'ecstasy will burn you insides', 'your organs will explode', 'cannabis is a safe drug' and 'cocaine is the cleanest and safest drug you can use because its white',' said Tommy. However, he realises that of the 'four pillars' Education and Prevention is the hardest to evaluate in terms of its impact. 'We have no way of evaluating it. You just don't know; something that's said to a young person today might have an impact five years down the road and that's the one problem with this, they can evaluate the CBDIs and the work we do, but to evaluate whether it makes any difference is difficult. 'The way we work is that if we're speaking ten people and two people use the information, well then that's well worth it,' said Tommy, who is urging people to avail of the CBDI's services. 'We have a confidential phone number (053-21691) and no-one accesses that only myself or Ann and if anyone wants to ring that number we're there and we'll get back to them. 'Anyone who has a suspicion or a worry or is anxious can get in touch with us, or any kind of community groups, church groups, youth groups, teachers or anyone who want programmes done or information about our services.' The CBDI is based at the Youth Centre in Nunnery Lane, New Ross and the FDYS, Francis Street, Wexford and can be contacted on 053-21691 or 053-23262. 
