drugs
{  
    December 01 1997 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/dont-legalise-drugs-urges-youth-council-26200271.html }
LEGALISING or decriminalising illegal drugs will not help the country's drugs problem and could even worsen the situation, according to the National Youth Council. It ``emphatically ruled out'' the option of legalising or decriminalising drugs such as cannabis or ecstasy in a drugs policy adopted at its annual assembly this weekend. The council said drug abuse was the most pressing issue affecting young people in Ireland and called for a concerted campaign to reduce the incidence and negative effects of drug abuse. However, the legalising of these drugs could worsen the problem by making them more socially acceptable, it argues. Now it is calling on the Government to honour its commitment to a £20m anti-drugs youth service development fund in Wednesday's Budget. The council's drug policy recommends: * No change in the current legal status of illegal drugs, * Prevention to be a major focus of campaigns tackling drug abuse, * A comprehensive drugs education programme and campaign to be put in place by youth organisations, and * Youth organisations to be better resourced, and involved more in planning drug abuse prevention programmes. The council says the role of youth organisations in preventing and dealing with drug abuse among young people is greatly undervalued and can be built upon. There is too much emphasis on treatment and supply and not enough on prevention, it adds. President Jillian Hassett pointed to the fact that in the Netherlands, which had become the international model for decriminalisation, there had been an increase in drug usage. ``Between 1984 and 1992 cannabis usage by students increased by 250pc,'' she added. ``The number of marijuana addicts increased by 30pc between 1991 and 1993 alone. A similar negative experience should not be replicated here,'' declared Ms Hassett. ``The drugs problem is nationwide and worsening. While targeted measures are needed to address the heroin problem in Dublin, the £20m anti-drugs youth service development fund should be committed on a nationwide basis through youth organisations working on the ground with young people.'' The president also said the use of peer education should be encouraged alongside appropriate and well-informed harm reduction strategies. The policy document also commits the council to lobbying Government and other decision-making bodies. 
