drugs
{ Dan White 
    April 08 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/time-to-think-of-a-big-score-at-united-drug-26410542.html }
PHARMACEUTICAL distributor United Drug is a genuine home-grown Irish success story. Founded by a group in Ballina, Co Mayo, in 1948 it was acquired by conglomerate BWG in 1973 before being spun off as a separate company and floated on the Stock Exchange in 1989. Over the past five years United Drug has increased its sales by 92 per cent, its earnings per share by 126 per cent while its dividend per share has grown 110 per cent. By any yardstick this is a well-run company. Not that you would notice from the share price. While the United Drug share price has climbed by over 11 per cent to ?3.85 over the past 12 months, the overall index of non-banking Irish shares has climbed by almost 36 per cent over the same period. In other words, the United Drug share price has under-performed the Irish market by about 18 per cent over the past year. If you were a pension fund manager who had bought United Drug shares a year ago you would now have a difficult job justifying your decision to angry pension fund trustees. So why is the market so cool on United Drug? While the company's financial performance over the past five years, compound annual sales and earnings growth of 14 per cent and 18 per cent respectively over the past five years, is nothing to be ashamed of, other Irish quoted companies have done even better. In addition its dividend yield of just 1.4 per cent is one of the lowest on offer from any mid-cap company. DCC is on a dividend yield of 2.2 per cent, C&C pays out 2.5 per cent, Irish Life & Permanent 3 per cent, AIB 3.2 per cent and Bank of Ireland 3.5 per cent. Ever since German firm Gehe, which also owns United Drug's main Irish rival, Cahill May Roberts, started buying retail pharmacies in 2001, there is strong evidence that a growing proportion of independently-owned retail pharmacists have been shifting their business to United. So far so good. However, the market is also worried about the final shape the deregulation of the retail pharmacy sector will take. The effective abolition of the ban on the opening of new retail pharmacies and the lifting of the prohibition on foreign-qualified pharmacists mean that the highly-profitable closed shop that was the Irish retail pharmacy sector is coming under mounting pressure. It is of course these independent retail pharmacies who are United Drug's main customers. Investors are also worried that the reform of the Irish health service will hit United's margins. Will more efficient centralised purchasing lead to lower margins for United Drug? While many of these fears are certainly valid they are also almost certainly exaggerated. Even if the margins of United Drug and other pharmaceutical distributors are squeezed, these lower margins will almost certainly be offset by higher volumes. In common with most developed countries, the Irish population is ageing rapidly. The latest estimates are that the average age of the Irish population is climbing by about four months a year. It now stands at over 34 years, as against 25 years in the early Eighties. As we get older we tend to get sicker. This means that we use more of the pills and potions that United Drug distributes on behalf of the drug companies. Recent figures from the Health Services Executive (HSE), which showed that 2005 spending on hi-tech medicines and drugs for diseases such as cancer, arthritis and multiple sclerosis grew by a third, while the cost of drugs for long-term illnesses such as diabetes increased by 17 per cent, demonstrate that any savings resulting from more efficient purchasing will be more than swallowed up by increased demand for new and more expensive drugs. What this means is that the demand for United Drug's products and services is going to remain strong in the years ahead. The company will be able to crank out increased sales and profits year in and year out for the foreseeable future. The fact that United Drug's future revenue stream is strongly visible means that it will almost certainly attract the attention of one of the major international drug distributors. With Gehe (now known as Celesio) having already taken over Cahill May Roberts, the likelihood is that one of the big boys will make United Drug an offer it can't refuse. The problem is that there is no way of knowing when this will happen. While the shares are currently fully valued they should be bought in the event of any wobble. Anyone who was lucky enough to purchase the shares at close to their low point of ?3.08 last October 21 shouldn't even think of selling them. 
