drugs
{  
    March 21 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/academic-calls-for-moves-to-legalise-cannabis-26193976.html }
CONFLICTING views on the decriminalisation and legalisation of cannabis and other drugs were voiced yesterday at the forum.Tim Murphy of the Department of Law at UCC advocated decriminalising drugs and told the forum he would prefer his young son to take cannabis than alcohol. His argument was that the criminalisation of drugs over the past 70 to 80 years had not worked. The policy of trying to move to a drug free society was an unrealistic aim, as the trend was going in the opposite direction throughout Ireland, Europe and the world. In society supply and demand had increased. Mr Murphy pointed out that all drugs could be used or abused and the policy should be one of harm reduction rather than criminalisation. He asked what purpose it served to criminalise people with drug problems. They were stigmatised and driven into a criminal realm. The reality was that people were taking drugs but they were adulterated and came from underground sources. ``Society should move away from this demonisation of drugs,'' he said. Instead, society should take over from the criminal gangs and, in a humane way, decriminalise drugs. It was through a treatment system rather than through the judicial or prison system that society should react. It should move away from the punitive approach because ``addiction is a clinical condition and criminalising addiction is not the way''. He denied he was defending the trendy liberal thinking from the ivory tower of a university. The reality is that drugs are available everywhere. Dr French insisted that cannabis caused loss of memory and loss of concentration. For 14 to 16 year olds cannabis was not ``the bread and butter'' of drug abuse in the community. Mr Murphy's problem, he said, was that he did not accept the reality of addiction. Those addicted were getting younger and younger and anything which would legalise or decriminalise drugs was most irresponsible. It would lead to much greater problems than those which affected society in legalising alcohol, tranquilisers and tobacco. Ms Anne Quigley of the Citywide Drug Group said the legalisation of drugs were something which was hugely insensitive to bring up with families devastated by drug addiction. ``Legalisation can be seen as a distraction or a search for another easy answer to a complex problem,'' she said. One speaker who said she was ``the mother of a cannabis addict'' said the drug had destroyed their home. She said he was expelled from school because he could not concentrate and had no interest in a job. She said 95pc of young people in her area had progressed into other drugs from cannabis. The issue of special courts to deal with drugs cases was given a mixed reception by community workers. Ms Quigley said there was no point in dealing with drug addicts through the courts without dealing with their habit. If they had committed a crime in order to feed a drug habit then there should be a treatment option rather than prison.  She agreed with Fergus McCabe of Icon that more research was needed. He said the big difference with special drug courts in the USA was that they had extra resources and facilities linked to treatment which the ordinary courts did not. 
