drugs
{  
    June 20 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/new-task-force-to-tackle-illegal-drug-use-27527416.html }
A new Drugs Task Force initiative aims to tackle the growth of illegal drug use in the region and to educate young people especially on the dangers associated with using drugs and alcohol. As the Leaving and Junior Cert exams draw to a close, parents and teachers alike will be appealing to young people to celebrate wisely and to be aware of the dangers associated with alcohol and drug use. The three year Regional Drug Strategy Plan, the first for the Northwest, is tailored to the specific needs of counties Donegal, Sligo and Leitrim. The Northwest Regional Drugs Task Force, established under the National Drugs Strategy, is inviting community groups and other interested parties to get on board and to draw down funding for anti-drugs projects in their own areas. “We want groups in each of the three counties to tell us what their concerns are, and we in turn will help them put anti-drug measures in place,” states Seán O’Connor, recently appointed Co-Ordinator of the Regional Drugs Task Force.  Strategy The Regional Drugs Task Force Strategy Plan will be officially launched at a series of events planned for the end of June in Letterkenny, Sligo and Carrick on Shannon. Groups working with young people in a social or educational context are invited to attend these launches, at which the aims of the new body will be fully outlined and ways of drawing down funding explained. “Many groups have been working with young people on anti-drug and alcohol issues in recent years, and what we aim to do is to harness these efforts into a cohesive body which will tackle the issues before they become problems,” adds O’Connor, who has spent the 6 weeks since his appointment to the post speaking with community and voluntary groups in the region, identifying the concerns of parents, teachers and the Gardaí. “We want to work with the communities in identifying the areas of most concern, and utilise the Regional Drugs Strategy Policy to make a meaningful difference in education and prevention of drug and alcohol misuse. The issues that face Sligo, Leitrim and Donegal are varied, and we aim to tailor an action plan to meet the needs of the individual counties.”  Meetings Mr. O’Connor is calling on all interested parties to attend the launches, where the full range of services will be fully outlined. It is also proposed that county subcommittees will be formed, representing all of the various stakeholders, and which will meet on a regular basis in each of the 3 counties. Mr Loman Conway, Chairperson of the Northwest Regional Drugs Task Force, adds: “The primary aim of the Plan is not just to maintain low drug prevalence levels but to further reduce these through education and prevention in particular. Only by committing ourselves to proactively responding to these problems, in a coordinated manner, can we realistically hope to attain this goal.” Tom Lavin of County Leitrim Partnership welcomes the new initiative. “We very much welcome this initiative. It raises the drugs and alcohol issues onto the agenda, and gives a focus to places such as Leitrim. There is a problem out there but we haven’t tackled it to date in an integrated fashion, and this is an important first step.” The full text of the Northwest Regional Drugs Task Force Strategic Plan 2005-2008 is available to download from www.nwdrugtaskforce.ie The launch of the Strategic Plan will take place in Letterkenny at the Radisson SAS Hotel on Monday 26 June at 1pm, in Carrick on Shannon at the Landmark Hotel on Tuesday 27 June at 1pm, and in Sligo at the Radisson SAS Hotel on Wednesday 28 June at 1pm. All members of the public interested in becoming aware of community based anti-drug measures are invited to attend.   Seán O’Connor  
