drugs
{ Fergus Black 
    July 18 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/pouring-cash-into-policing-wont-solve-drug-problem-26041825.html }
THE Government was warned yesterday that any attempts to reduce  drug-related problems in Ireland by investing in policing and prisons would fail. The warning came at an international conference held in Dublin which heard that the country's heroin user population had now risen to a "conservative" 15,000 - a jump of more than 2,000 in the past four years. And there was growing evidence of a link between drug use and the number of people sleeping rough on the streets. More than 200 delegates are attending the two-day conference on problem drug use and homelessness at Dublin Castle, organised by the Merchant's Quay Project. Project director of services, Tony Geoghegan, revealed there were now thought to be 15,000 heroin users across the country and more than 5,000 homeless on any one night. Every year his organisation found that the number of homeless people and drug users availing of its services has increased. But Mr Geoghegan believes the heroin user figure is much higher. Only four years ago the number of heroin users was put at 13,000, but he pointed out that this health board figure was for the greater Dublin area only. He cited the failure of government services in targeting areas where drug use is prevalent as one of the reasons why user numbers are rising. Mr Geoghegan also expressed concern about recent talk of government cutbacks, and criticised Justice Minister Michael McDowell for appearing to favour investment on policing and prisons for reducing drug-related problems. This approach had failed in America and Europe and would also fail in Ireland, he warned. Merchants Quay Project would be "appalled" if the Government merely moved to increase the number of drug convictions. "The Government needs to invest more in disadvantaged communities and spend more on services for homeless persons and drug users if we are to take seriously their commitment to justice and equality for all," he said. Ethan Nadelmann, the executive director of the US Drug Policy Alliance, addressed the conference yesterday and said that Ireland should avoid following the US in its "failed" war on drugs policy. Instead of cracking down and putting drugs users in prison, the real priority should be to reduce death and disease and the suffering associated with drug use, he said. Mr Nadelmann branded his own country's policy a failure, and said Ireland should be looking to other European countries as examples in how to help drug users. He revealed that more people were locked up for drugs violations in America than for every type of crime in the European Union. While prison obviously worked for some people, for many it was not the answer. They developed a network of criminal activity and were more likely to use drugs while in prison. It was also harder for them to get a mainstream job on their release. Mr Nadelmann called for a lessening of the legal restrictions on the use of cannabis, and said it should be legally controlled, regulated and taxed. The conference also heard a call from one delegate for the setting up of "drug consumption rooms" in Ireland, where users could be medically supervised while injecting. Mary O'Shea, assistant director of Merchants Quay Ireland, said that while the country had an extensive needle exchange programme, injection rooms would help to reduce the danger of dirty needle exchanges. Mr Nadelmann said society "has no choice but to figure out some sensible ways to learn how to live with drugs so they cause the least possible harm and the greatest possible good". He said there had never been a "drug-free society in the history of human civilisation" and there is no reason to expect one in the future. "It seems to me the responsibility of any citizen ... is the next time some government minister stands up and starts mouthing all this rhetoric about 'just say no' or zero tolerance or creating a drug-free society, the obligation of the citizen is to burst out laughing, and to demand that politicians start getting real about this stuff." 
