drugs
{  
    November 23 2008 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/dealers-are-subsidised-with-dole-handouts-26494141.html }
THE drugs industry is generating between €500m and €1bn each year. And at a time when the economy is in downturn and working people are facing increasing hardship, the State is subsidising drug-traffickers and dealers to at least €100m annually in welfare benefits and free legal aid. No official Irish study has examined the actual costs to the State -- aka the taxpayer -- of drug-dealers but, by using data from Britain, we can estimate the scale of the situation here. The best source of information on the structure of the drugs industry in Britain is Matrix Study of the Illicit Drug Trade published by the Home Office last year. "The scale of the illicit drug trade in the UK is large," reads the study. "It was recently suggested there were 300 major importers into the UK, 3,000 wholesalers, and 70,000 street dealers. The illicit drugs market has been estimated at £4bn to £6.6bn a year based on 2003/04 figures." Ireland has roughly one 14th of the population of the UK and appears to have similar drug-use patterns. Based on this, we can make a rough guess that if the Home Office estimates the number of major importers to the UK at 300, then this translates into roughly 20 major operators in Ireland, a figure that gardai do not dispute. If there are 3,000 wholesalers in the UK then there are probably 200 here. The UK analysis suggests that we also have around 4,600 street traders, again an estimate that gardai would not dispute. Taking a middle figure of £5bn from the Home Office estimate of the value of the drugs trade gives us a euro value of about €6.2 bn, so we might expect our illegal drugs trade to have been about €413m in 2003/04. The level of drugs seizures has been growing at over 20 per cent per annum for the last few years. If the trade grew at 20 per cent a year, then the trade would now be worth €1bn. There is another rule-of-thumb indicator from the Drug Enforcement Agency in the United States that suggests that the value of drugs seized by police and customs represents roughly 10 per cent of the total value of the market. The last available figures for 2006 put the value of drugs seized in Ireland at €107m -- which would also put the overall value of the trade in Ireland at over €1bn. However, as this depends on the estimated final end price of the drug -- the price the street or club dealer gets from the consumer -- this tends to overestimate the value of the trade to those actually involved up along the feeding chain. The Home Office study shows the trade typically works with a mark-up of about 100 per cent at each stage of the distribution system. The Irish drug industry is likely to have a similar mark-up with total end sales of about €1,000m. Purchases, sales and profits figures are based on 100 per cent mark-ups, 50 per cent gross margins and 30 per cent profit margins. This means that our best estimate for the total annual income arising from the illegal drugs trade is around €525m. This would give an average annual income to each of the 20 importing organisations of €3.73m, an average annual income to all the 200 wholesale organisations of €750,000 and an average annual income to each of the 4,600 street dealers of €65,000. The typical UK network has an importer, 10 wholesalers buying from this importer and each wholesaler supplying 23 retailers. A network controlling only one per cent of the Irish drug trade would have street sales of €10m with the importer paying €1.25m for his supplies and with three mark-ups of 100 per cent resulting in the street sales of €10m. Based on the population of the Limerick city and suburbs being close to three per cent of the Irish population, we can estimate that Limerick has street level sales of close to €30m. The Limerick gangs have moved outside of Limerick and appear now to control a significantly expanded territory from Galway and all of Munster. If the Limerick gangs now control an area with only six per cent of the population, then we can estimate that the annual turnover of the two Limerick networks is about €60m. Gardai estimate the dominant Dundon-McCarthy gang controls 80 per cent of this business, so the leading Limerick gang and their network control a criminal enterprise generating about €48m of annual turnover. If this is the case, then the core group, acting as importers, are importing about €6m and selling €12m worth of drugs each year. A 30 per cent profit margin on sales means that the core group has an annual income between €3m and €4m per annum. It may well be that members of the core group in the Limerick network also act as wholesalers with their own defined territories, and if this is the case, then the core group has an even higher annual income. Based on the UK figures, we can extrapolate that there are about 4,600 street-level drug dealers in Ireland. The Garda Annual Report indicates that there were 3,016 cases of "possession of drugs for sale or supply" in 2006. The Annual Report of the Courts Service for 2006 indicates that there were 8,842 drugs cases involving 6,654 individuals but this figure includes possession for "own use" and therefore does not give a true picture of the level of dealing activity. The majority of street level drug retailers are unemployed and claim free legal aid when charged in court with drugs offences. This was confirmed by reports in May 2007 of a group of 18 persons connected with a drugs organisation in south Dublin who were brought before the District Court in Tallaght after a garda sweep of local dealers. Most immediately claimed free criminal legal aid. The annual bill for criminal legal aid is running at over €50m a year and a very large portion of this is taken up by people who are facing charges of possession and supply of drugs. Legal aid is available even where amounts involved are valued at millions of euros. On top of this legal aid, almost every person coming before the courts on a drug related offence is in receipt of State benefits. We can estimate that the average street-level dealer is getting a job seeker's allowance of close to €14,000 per annum. This means that the State subsidy to the drugs industry is about €60m per annum. As a result of the recent budget, a married man with an adult dependant will get a job seeker's allowance of €339 per week. This man working for 39 hours per week on the minimum wage of €8.65 per hour will earn €337 for the week's work. In the year 2000, when the minimum wage was introduced at €5.59 per hour, this married man earned €218 per week whereas the dole for a married man with an adult dependent was €158. This meant that there was a small incentive to work for 39 hours instead of opting for unemployment. Working 39 hours at the minimum wage brought in an extra €60 per week and gave the person on the minimum wage 38 per cent more each week than the dole. The married man on the dole automatically gets a medical card. However the person working on the minimum wage will have to undergo a means test. The application form is a five-page document that is intimidating to any person with a low literacy standard. The rules for the medical card state that a married couple with an income above €266.50 per week is not entitled to the card although income in the context of the medical card is an adjusted income to take into account "reasonable expenses incurred in housing costs and travel to work costs". The medical card guidelines also state that "there is, however, no exact definition of what 'reasonable expenses' actually constitutes". The situation is more complex where the married man has children. If he opts for the dole, he gets €26 per week extra for each child but no employer gives extra wages to workers linked to the number of children they have. A married man on low wages, however, is entitled to family income supplement (FIS). FIS is an enormously complex and bureaucratic scheme that seems to discourage most potential applicants. The application form is 11 pages long and is a nightmare for the employee and even worse for his employer. If a man in the situation described above does go through this bureaucratic process and gets the FIS, the first thing that will happen is that his family will lose the medical card -- and if he earns any additional income, then the FIS will be reduced by 60 per cent of the additional income earned. Young males growing up in communities suffering from social exclusion may be attracted into drugs gangs. The Matrix Study indicates that over 60 per cent of all those involved in the drugs trade joined through a friendship. The only other requirement for a person joining the trade was a willingness to break the law. The earning power of the trade combined with the ability to draw full social welfare benefits makes drug dealing for a person with the right contacts, limited literacy, limited skills and a willingness to break the law, a highly attractive career option. To combat the drugs trade and build a society that will draw in the socially marginalised who are driving the supply of drugs in Ireland, we need to understand the real dynamics of the industry. We need to understand both the social exclusion factors that attract people into the industry and the immense economic power that the drugs networks have achieved. Felim O'Rourke is a lecturer in economics at Sligo IT 
