drugs
{ Jim Cusack 
    August 23 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/drug-barons-go-global-as-profits-and-violence-make-dealers-a-killing-26234433.html }
LIKE computer and internet technologies, the drugs trade in Europe has been transformed completely in only the past decade. The individuals responsible for  importing the huge shipments of cannabis to Europe in the Seventies and Eighties were often playboy types who acquired a taste for drugs at college and went into smuggling and distribution in a big way. Klaas Bruinsma, the Dutch sailor and socialite, made a fortune from trafficking and was one of the main sources of the cannabis that reached Ireland in the Eighties. Bruinsma was from a wealthy middle-class background. An expert ocean-going sailor, he took yachts down to Morocco and sailed them home crammed with hash. In the early Eighties, he moved up to commercial shipping and hired gangs of men to do his work, some of his dope being landed off the southwest coast of Ireland. Bruinsma was then able to devote more time to his pleasures: ski resorts in winter, sailing in summer. He and his ilk would not have even considered themselves criminal. Bruinsma was an accepted part of the European super-wealthy aristocracy and a well-known figure at the top regattas during the sailing season. He was shot dead by rival dealers at the Hilton Hotel in Amsterdam in 1991. A short while later, Dutch police found 4.5 tonnes of cannabis that he had stashed as a pension fund for himself. Other events unfolding at the same time presaged a momentous change in the European drugs trade. When the Soviet Union collapsed, the regional militias and terrorist groups that controlled the supply areas for the heroin trade were free to move out into Europe through the gateway of the Balkans. At a conference on transnational crime held in Strasbourg last year, a delegate from the Azerbaijani parliament laid out the kind of problem facing European governments. The vast Nagorno-Karabakh area, which included about 20 per cent of his country, had undergone total revolution, creating a million-strong refugee crisis; it was controlled by Armenian and other irregular forces whose sole source of income was organised crime. In other words, a vast uncontrolled area covering the ancient Silk Route from Asia to Europe was in the hands of organised crime. This is the route that brings heroin into Europe, along with ephedrine and other chemicals used to manufacture synthetic drugs. The heroin producers and traffickers in Karabakh, along with Kurdish and Turkish mafias, linked up with the emerging mafias in the Balkans, which in turn moved into and took over the heroin trade in Europe. Javier Solana, the EU foreign policy chief, said earlier this year that 70 per cent of heroin coming into Europe was passing through theBalkans. Switch to Italy and the Lombardian, Sicilian and Tuscan mafia is linked up with north African and Middle Eastern hashish suppliers. Spain and Portugal, described by the international drugs watchdog Geopolitical Drugs Dispatch as a "drugs clearing house" for Europe, are home to dozens of major gangs shifting cannabis from northwest Africa and cocaine from South America. The trans-Atlantic trade in cocaine from South America to the Galician coastal area of northwest Spain and Portugal has created some of the wealthiest organised groups in Europe. Despite the regular huge seizures of drugs throughout Europe, a feeling of despondency has crept in at both government and EU Commission level about tackling drug crime. Almost every conference held by the EU on the subject receives increasingly fatalistic briefings with papers entitled: "A drug-free Europe or free-drug Europe?" and "Progress or retreat?" So in just over a decade, the European drugs market has become supercharged. This is having a major impact on the drugs trade and on organised crime in this country. Since the early 1990s - since even 1994-1996 when John Gilligan's gang was turning over ?10m worth of cannabis and coke annually - the drug situation here has been transformed. The big suppliers are now mainly living in Spain or Holland, or have their operations based there and travel back and forth, making sure they have no major assets in Ireland for the Criminal Assets Bureau to seize. These people have contacts - mainly in Spain, Belgium and Holland - with the foreign mafia importers, who now have very efficient delivery systems in both countries. It is relatively easy for even a middleweight Dublin criminal to go to Spain and get hold of a very large quantity of cannabis. A criminal family from the Kevin Street area of Dublin, which until quite recently only barely figured in Garda reports in respect of major crime, has been found to be among the biggest middlemen in this trade in Spain, buying and trafficking very'A vast area covering the ancient Silk Route from Asia to Europe is in the hands of organised crime. This is the route that brings heroin into Europe' large quantities of cannabis and cocaine. Last month one of the gang - a suspect for the murder of Raymond Salinger, who was shot dead in a Liberties pub in January - was arrested in Spain with 450kg of cannabis. The gang, run by a father and son, was responsible for the cocaine and cannabis operation - being run from a former equestrian centre near Rathcoole, Co Dublin - that was uncovered by gardai last year. The gang is still inbusiness. What gardai across Dublin say they are finding now is that most shipments of cannabis and cocaine coming into the middle-ranking suppliers from the continent come with "extras", as guns arriving with these shipments are known among the criminal fraternity. The weapons - anything from high-powered automatic pistols to sub-machine-guns and even a missile in one instance - areone of the prime reasons for the recent upsurge in gang killing in Dublin - the worst, in fact, on record. The big suppliers reckon, according to gardai, that the supply of guns actually helps to stimulate the local drugs trade. It provides gangs with protection and helps them overcome opponents. Gun law "sorts the wheat from the chaff", as one put it. The killing last weekend of Bernard Sugg was the 11th in the city this year and the 44th since the start of 1998. It is likely to go unprosecuted, as only two gangland killings have led to charges, both in the South Central "A" Garda Division. No firm suspect has yet emerged for the killing of Sugg, 23, a violent young man who had many enemies in the Corduff area where he lived. No witnesses have come forward with a description of the gunman and none is likely to: Sugg was despised locally and a big cheer went up in the pub where he had been drinking after the gunman walked out to escape on a motorcycle. The two possibilities being examined by detectives during the week were that he was killed by the IRA or by a rival criminal. The former is the likelier scenario, according to some gardai. The IRA has killed at least five criminals in Dublin in the past five years and is active in the Finglas area where Sugg supplied heroin. The IRA shot dead another member of the same gang, Joe Foran, in Finglas three years ago. Sugg was part of a heroin dealing gang, dubbed the "Westies" by newspapers because it is based in the western suburbs of Blanchardstown-Finglas. Its main income comes from buying heroin from bigger criminals and selling it to middlemen, who then sell it to street dealers. The street dealers gather around the city centre each day, attracting an estimated 2,000 to 3,000 addicts who come into the city and then leave, taking back supplies to other addicts in the outer suburbs. There may be between 15,000 and 20,000 addicts in the city. Formerly the main cause of crime in Dublin, the addicts rarely have to carry out robberies to raise money, as the price of street heroin has fallen dramatically and there is an abundant legally prescribed supply of the substitute, methadone, which keeps them calm but is not a cure for addiction. Ironically, while Government and gardai continue to issue figures claiming that crime rates are falling, every garda on street duty in Dublin concurs there have never been more drugs - and guns - on the streets. The claims that murder rates here are the lowest in Europe also no longer hold water. According to British police, there were 52 drug-gang related murders in Britain, with a population of 54 million, last year. So far this year, Dublin, with a population of fewer than 1.5 million, has had 11 gangland murders. Gardai in west Dublin, on hearing of the murder of Sugg in Blanchardstown last weekend, pointed out that almost every working-class area of the city has a feud that could erupt in murder at any time. One dispute that has been rumbling on in the Drimnagh-Crumlin area for the last two years, causing five murders already, has still not fully settled and there is intelligence that one of the two gangs involved is still intent on murdering any member of the other gang. In Ballyfermot, a dispute is raging between two drug-dealing families after a woman was badly beaten by a man from one family. He was subsequently tracked down and beaten mercilessly with weapons including golf clubs, barely surviving. The young gang whose now imprisoned leader murdered Darren Carey and Patrick Murphy at the Grand Canal on Millennium New Year's Eve is still selling drugs around Clondalkin, and is armed and involved in disputes with other gangs. Sugg and his associates were involved in several disputes. His associates beat and slashed a man so badly two years ago that he required more than 60 stitches to his face alone and had a leg and arm broken. These types of rows, gardai say, are now settled at gunpoint. If Sugg was shot by another dealer, the chances are there will be fatal retaliation. His gang has already shot at least two men in the past three years - Pascal Boland, in January 1999, and Paul Ryan from Raheny, in April this year. 
