drugs
{  
    November 17 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/wicklow-group-hold-week-long-programme-of-events-series-of-seminars-look-at-drug-abuse-27831766.html }
Drugs Awareness Week gets underway in towns throughout Wicklow next Monday, November 21, aiming to increase awareness of issues surrounding drugs and drug abuse. A host of events will take place in Wicklow Town, organised by Wicklow Drugs Awareness Group, while a separate series of seminars and competitions have been run in the lead up to the week. The drugs awareness group has issued a number of tips for parents to coincide with the events, such as talking to their children about drugs and encouraging them to develop a sensible attitude. 'Drugs and drug abuse strikes at the very heart of parents' deepest concerns. Talking with your children about drugs and drug use can be quite a challenge,' explains group member and drugs education officer, Stephen Harding. 'Many parents feel they don't know enough about the subject or they may think that young people will not listen to them,' he adds. The activities leading up to the week commenced with a series of health promotion seminars. Topics covered so far include Nutrition and Food Addiction and Depression and Suicide Prevention. On Wednesday next, November 23, there will be a seminar on Drugs and Drug Issues in the Grand Hotel, Wicklow, at 7.30 p.m. The seminar is aimed at over 18s only and is free of charge. A colouring competition, involving 16 primary schools and aimed at raising self-esteem, was also organised and a prize giving ceremony for first and second places from each school will be held at the launch of the week on Monday November 21 in the foyer of Wicklow County Buildings on Station Road Chairman of Wicklow County Council, Cllr Andrew Doyle, will present the prizes. During the week, the Wicklow Drugs Awareness Group will be displaying information stands in the secondary schools at break times and in the Wicklow Library. A pilot project with transition year students of the Abbey Community College will take place and will be held in each of the secondary schools during the coming year. A quiz competition will also take place, designed to inform the public about the correct information and facts relating to drugs. Quiz sheets can be obtained from the library or Wicklow Swimming Pool and can be returned to both these premises. This is the third year the Drugs Awareness Week is taking place in Wicklow. Meanwhile in Arklow, the East Wicklow Youth Service has been leading the way in the battle against drugs for the last three years, and the EWYS is targeting its anti-drugs message at the school going population in the area. Their third Drugs Awareness Week, which was also launched on Monday, in Arus Lorcain, takes place next week, Monday to Friday, with a series of events targeted at the schools. Mr. John O'Brien, chairman of the East Coast Regional Task Force, has also announced two new projects for Co. Wicklow. The first is a County Community Addiction Team and the second will be a Co. Wicklow Community Rehabilitation Project. The results of an art and poster competition on the themes of healthy lifestyles were also announced at Monday's launch by EWYS development officer, Margaret Kelly. Art competition winners U-8s 1, Glenn Howell, Seabank (St. Joseph's); 2, Nadine Murphy, 40 Woodbrook (St. Michael's); 3, Karen Byrne, 102 Knockmore (St. Michael's); highly commended, Patrick Brennan, 47 Mountain View Drive (Boys National School). U-12 joint first, Grace Moloney, Sea Road, and Theresa Slattery, 9 Glenview Avenue (both St. Mary's); 2, Casey Ryan, 8 Highfield Avenue (St. Mary's); 3, Maeve Boffey, Rathdrum (St. Mary's). U-18 U-15s highly commended, Claire O'Byrne, Aughrim (St. Mary's) and Sarah Forde, 10 Lamberton Heights, Arklow (St. Mary's College. 
