drugs
{ Isabel Hurley 
    November 11 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/top-schools-introduce-mandatory-drug-tests-for-pupils-26026887.html }
TWO of the best known fee-paying schools are now operating mandatory drug testing of students and others are considering introducing the policy. Sutton Park school, which charges ?5,000-a-year, and St Andrew's, which costs ?3,650-a-year to attend, are the schools known to be operating the scheme. But at least 15 other private schools are considering following the example of the two Dublin colleges and have sought information on the scheme from a company that supplies drug testing kits, Advanced Diagnostic Products. And yesterday there was a call for random drug testing in all Dublin secondary schools as a pilot scheme. The international president of Europe Against Drugs (EURAD), Grainne Kenny, called on politicians to follow the lead given by the fee-paying schools. Ms Kenny hailed the move by these colleges as "a very welcome development" and called on politicians to vigorously pursue a similar programme in all secondary schools to fight abuse amongst teenagers. Sutton Park, on the northside of the city, and St Andrew's, in Booterstown, have introduced drug testing with the consent of parents. If a pupil tests positive once they must undergo drug counselling along with other supportive measures in a bid to get them off drugs. If they test positive again, they are expelled. "Every school I know of is very worried about drug taking among pupils and I'm fully in support of random drug testing being introduced into all of Dublin's secondary schools," said Ms Kenny. "We should follow the lead of the private schools in this area. They have recognised the problem and are doing something about it. "The scheme can only work properly with the support of everyone involved, the schools, the parents, the pupils, trained counsellors and the health board," said Ms Kenny. "Parents and pupils should not see the introduction of such a scheme as a threat," she added. "It is the way forward, a positive development. Ireland has one of the worst drug problems in Europe, nobody wants to see the next generation addicted to drugs. "For any politician to object to this, shows that they have not got a proper grasp on the seriousness of the drugs threat to our young people in every community across Ireland and particularly Dublin. "People may argue that such testing is an infringement of rights but let me tell you, there is no liberty left in the life of a person addicted to drugs. "They lose the freedom to enjoy life. "We simply must intervene before our kids become addicted to drugs, it's simple prevention," she said. "In America, there is an extensive random drug testing scheme for both pupils and teachers and it works. "Drug use among High School pupils has fallen 50pc since the 1980s and the Americans have put enormous funding into keeping drugs out of their schools," she added. The EURAD chief said that pupils in private schools possibly had access to too much money with which they could pay for drugs. "Having too much money can actually be a real problem when it comes to teenagers. "Teenagers in private schools generally don't get into crime but they are vulnerable to being exploited with drugs," she pointed out. 
