drugs
{ David Quinn 
    June 29 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/no-choice-but-to-step-up-the-war-on-drugs-26382006.html }
IS anyone surprised that the number of gangland murders has gone up, not down, in the 10 years since the death of Veronica Guerin? Yes, there was a crackdown following her murder which resulted in people being imprisoned. Yes, the Criminal Assets Bureau has notched up a few scalps. Yes, it brought the whole issue into sharper public focus. But the number of gangland murders in the last 20 months amounted to 34, compared with 11 in the 20 months in the run-up to the killing of Veronica. So things get worse, not better. The murders are, of course, the most obvious expression of the drug wars. Irish people have a burgeoning appetite for drugs, especially cocaine. What else should we expect in a society that increasingly uses drugs as a substitute for religion? The witless among us think the answer to this problem, to the gangland murders, is to legalise drugs. They tell us, for example, that cocaine was legal 100 years ago, and therefore it should be legal today. They tell us that if drugs were made legal, just like alcohol, then the drug gangs would cease to exist because drugs could be bought over the counter. They point to the example of Prohibition in the United States when alcohol was banned. The Mafia were given a huge shot in the arm as they became the distributor of alcohol and grew so powerful it has taken until today to cut them down to size. These same would-be drug legalisers don't point out, of course, that alcohol consumption dropped during Prohibition and the social problems associated with alcohol dropped also. They also fail to point out that the ban on alcohol in much of the Muslim world actually works despite the fact that expatriates can lay their hands on the stuff easily enough when living in countries like Saudi Arabia. A few years back I was in Jordan. The hotel I was staying in hosted a wedding for some obviously well-off Jordanians. The wedding reception was alcohol-free but the guests enjoyed themselves to a degree we can only seem to manage when plastered. So it appears Muslims - for all their alleged and sometimes real puritanism - are better able to enjoy themselves than us. We simply can't imagine a wedding without drunks. The reason Prohibition ultimately didn't work is because alcohol consumption is such a deeply engrained part of our culture. It has become an indispensable social lubricant which we are now drinking in record amounts. To alcohol we have added drugs. The question our would-be drug legalisers need to ask themselves is this: do we really want to make drugs as much a part of our culture as booze? Is this really what they want? Because if it is, then eventually drugs really will become as impossible to control as alcohol. And yes, there will be those able to handle their cocaine or their heroin or whatever their drug of choice happens to be as easily as many of us can handle alcohol. But there will be many who won't be able to handle the stuff, just as there are now, and their numbers will almost certainly grow as drug use becomes more and more acceptable. Do we really want that? When it is pointed out that cocaine was legal 100 years ago, what's left out is the reason it was then made illegal. It was because of the social problems it caused. Just ask doctors in Accident and Emergency departments today. Some of the frenzied violence they have to deal with is caused by people crazed by cocaine. Think Al Pacino in the closing scene of Scarface blasting away at his enemies from the balcony of his mansion, imagining he is invincible, and you've got the idea. Perhaps the would-be drug legalisers also need to consider the example of the Far East. Why do they imagine that region is now so merciless towards drug traffickers? It is because in China for one, 100 years ago, a massive 10pc of the population was using opium. Try to imagine 400,000 Irish people on heroin and then you realise the scale of the problem. It is true that the drug epidemic admits of no easy solution and that ultimately it's a demand problem. But it is also true that legalising drugs would be no answer. Ten years on from the death of Veronica Guerin we have no choice but to step up the war on drugs and fight it to the bitter end, even if the bitter end is decades away. This is the only way to do her memory any justice despite the claims of the witless to the contrary. 
