drugs
{ Independent.ie Newsdesk 
    December 12 2017 12:15 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/mam-wouldnt-have-wanted-her-death-to-be-in-vain-family-of-woman-who-died-while-campaigning-for-access-to-drug-36400349.html }
The family of a woman who died days after pleading with the HSE for access to a drug she believed would give her a healthier life, have vowed to continue her fight to see those who need it given access to the medication.  Marion Kelly (53) suffered from Alpha-1, a genetic condition that causes attacks lung and liver problems. She died on December 1.  She was one of 21 people here who were taking the drug, Respreeza, as part of a trial and days before she passed away she spoke to Independent.ie about how she feared the HSE's decision not to make the drug available to her could rob her of the chance to watch her grandchildren grow up. Her daughter Aideen spoke on RTÉ's Claire Byrne Live show and said her mother would have wanted the family to continue campaigning for the drug for the other 19 people who took part in the trial.  "Nobody died while on the trial but yet so many people have deteriorated since coming off the drug and unfortunately two people have now died. It doesn't take a genius to figure out that this drug is helping them," her daughter said.  "To know that they potentially had this lifeline for her, that she could be possibly be still with us if they had just let [her] have this drug... it ultimately felt to me that they just let her die," she said.  When the trial ended the manufacturer agreed to continue to provide the drug but wanted the HSE to fund the administration of the drug. Confusion emerged leading to a delay in administration of the drug.  The cost of administering the drug for six months per person would cost €6,000 Aideen said.  "€6,000 to keep my mum alive, that's all it would have taken but I suppose her life wasn't worth that to them.  "They're more than just numbers in a file, they are human beings and they don't deserve to be treated like this," she added.  "If they could have seen what I saw there is no way that they would let somebody suffer like that," she said.  "That's why this needs to be done. We need to fight for the remaining 19 people on the trial. Mam would have wanted that, she wouldn't have wanted her death to be in vain."  The family are angry and are left with the frustration of knowing that their mother felt there was a price-tag on her life she said.  The drug was administered to 21 patients on a so-called "compassionate access scheme" but was withdrawn in September. Also in studio was Dr Michael Barry, clinical director for the National Centre of Pharmaeconomics, who said the decision not to reimburse the drug was made due to its effectiveness found in a clinical trial and on cost.  He said the drug manufacturer, CSL Behring, could return to the HSE with a new offer on pricing and a "potentially turning a no into a yes".  Speaking to Independent.ie  just days before she passed away Marion described the drug as a "miracle" drug.  "The trial was given to 21 of us and we were able to take it for as long as the trial continued," she said.  "It was fantastic, I could go back to things like shopping independently, gardening and doing things for myself. "I had a new lease of life, it felt like a miracle. "Before that I would have been in and out of hospital six or seven times a year but with Respreeza I think I was in hospital just once over three years so I felt like I had my freedom back." Prior to her death Marion had set campaigned for Resprezza to be made available here, for more information please visit here. Online Editors 
