drugs
{  
    July 18 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/audiences-throughout-the-country-have-been-flocking-to-see-the-movie-veronica-guerin-with-its-horribly-bleak-portrayal-of-the-dublin-drugs-scene-at-the-end-the-ver-indicatesindicates-that-people-power-has-made-ireland-virtually-drug-free-not-25939526.html }
Flashback 1983     No Big Deals     Seizures of cannabis (221 kilos) and cocaine (409 grammes) indicate Ireland's low  drugs penetration. But as accounts clerk Veronica Guerin parties with the Haughey kids, heroin (1,264 grammes) takes hold in Dublin's inner city. Flashback 1983 No Big Deals Seizures of cannabis (221 kilos) and cocaine (409 grammes) indicate Ireland's low drugs penetration. But as accounts clerk Veronica Guerin parties with the Haughey kids, heroin (1,264 grammes) takes hold in Dublin's inner city. Flashback 1993 Opening For Business Journalist Veronica Guerin takes interest in booming drugs trade now controlled by small cartel of gangs. Seizures, estimated at 10pc of total trade, show imports of cannabis (515 kilos) and cocaine (985 grammes) have doubled. Heroin down slightly. Ecstasy appears (271 tabs). Ireland 2003 Drugs On Demand Cannabis is up 50 times (10,157 kilos) from 1983. Heroin up by a factor of 25 (29,5 kilos). Cocaine up 13 times (5,325 grammes). Ecstasy has skyrocketed from 271 to 469,680 tabs, indicating the consumption of 4.6 million pills annually. Leading Europe Astray The UN report 
Global Illicit Trends 2002 ranks Ireland first of 23 European countries for consumption of ecstasy and speed (amphetamine). Ireland shares first place for cannabis use with the UK. Ireland ranks third for cocaine. Ireland's Biggest Growth Sector Looser border controls, regular supply lines and willing new customers make the illicit drugs trade a recession-proof cottage industry. Ecstasy manufacture is relatively simple, hard to detect, and obscenely profitable. Pills made for 20 cent retail for ?10. The Profit Takers The big, centralised gangs broken-up after Veronica's murder have been replaced by a feudal, and feuding, patchwork of ruthless self-starters. The result is disrupted garda intelligence and market saturation. The Paying Customers A 2002 survey by the Union of Students in Ireland (USI) found that 51pc of third level students have tried illegal drugs. Of that 51pc, two-thirds first experimented in secondary school. The main reason given for trying drugs was "curiosity" and not peer pressure. The Thin Navy Blue Line Over 50 detectives work full-time in the Garda National Drugs Unit, with scores more in regional drugs units. Each of 12,000 officers expends unmeasured man-hours on the fight against drugs each year. Garda/prison overtime alone cost the taxpayer ?140m in 2001. The State's Black Hole The National Drug Strategy 2001-2008 initially allocated ?19m to local task forces plus ?55m to the Young People's Facilities & Services Fund. The multi-agency strategy, which aims at '100 separate monitored actions', will cost hundreds of millions. The Mis-spent Tax Millions Last week Ireland's first Inspector of Prisons slammed our jails as an introduction agency to hard drugs. Each of Ireland's 3,100 prisoners cost the State ?1,300 pw to keep. Redirected towards high-risk children, this funding would largely cure the heroin problem. The Great Drugs Doublethink Little or no resources go to help drug-dependent prisoners clean-up. Just three Irish prisons have drug-free units, offering clean-living facilities for less than one-in-ten inmates: Wheatfield (18 places), Mountjoy Training Unit (90 approx.), St Pats (70 + 9 detox places). The Price In Human Life Of 35 violent deaths in the state so far this year, one-third had direct links to the drugs trade. Drug-related 'executions' have almost reached double figures, as young gang bosses (some in their teens) stir-up turf wars with relish. And The Political Winners Are ... The drug-fuelled, and funded, state of lawlessness in those communities producing the young ganglords has aided the electoral rise of political parties behind 'pushers-out' vigilantism. The Moral Missing Link The USI report found that 7 out of 10 drug-takers never encountered a dealer. 41pc sourced via school, while 28 pc sourced from friends. No direct connection is made between the Saturday night buzz and the body in the ditch. The Parental Credibility Gap The USI survey found that only 2pc surveyed accepted drugs information from their parents. Experts say that parents giving ill-informed advice defeat their own cause. It is better to attack cannabis for its high tar content than to claim it causes reefer madness. The Political Credibility Gap Politicians warn that Ireland is undergoing a drugs crisis, yet last year Drugs Strategy Minister Noel Ahern rejected the UN report placing Ireland on top of Europe's drugs league. The UN report was "unreliable" and "inaccurate" and he would soon produce his own. Untrustworthy Figures The true cost to the taxpayer of combating drugs is buried across scores of agencies. The worth of the black economy in drugs is unknowable. Customs seizures in 2002 were down 50pc on 2001, but Ireland remains swamped. Gardai greatly inflate their own 'street value' seizures. Snapshot Of Ireland 2003 This year the 
Irish Independent published photos of homeless heroin addicts shooting-up in central Dublin adjacent to gardai. 15,000 addicts have become part of the scenery. Experts stress that heroin is a drug problem apart, and can be all but wiped out if the political will exists. Personal Responsibility The launch, last May, of the Department of Health's National Drug Awareness Campaign was accompanied by the launch of a DIY home drug testing kit which parents could use to test their children. This sparked debate about issues of trust, but moved the war against drugs into the theatre most likely to produce victory: the home. 
