drugs
{ By David Tucker 
    June 10 2015 11:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/news/60-people-arrested-after-six-month-drug-operation-31292374.html }
A MAJOR Garda drugs operation has resulted in the arrest of 60 people in Wexford, Dublin and Cork. Gardai said the arrests follow a six-month covert operation coordinated by the Drugs and Organised Crime Bureau aimed at identifying persons involved in the sale and supply of heroin, cocaine and other controlled drugs in these areas. Over 200 drug charges have been preferred against those arrested in the past 48 hours. 'Operation Denver' in Wexford town has resulted in the arrest of seven men and two women aged from 22 to 61 years of age. All of those arrested by Gardaí at Wexford Garda station are charged in connection with the supply of Heroin. These suspects are to appear at Wexford District Court on June 15. The Dublin arrests, which were in the south inner city, occurred following a lengthy operation initiated by Kevin Street Gardaí to disrupt the activity of an organised drug distribution network operating in this area. All 26 of the suspects arrested in Dublin were male. This search and arrest operation is the second phase of 'Operation Tempest', which saw the arrest of 45 individuals and over 100 drug supply charges in Dublin's north inner city last year. All of those arrested in this phase of the operation are to appear at Dublin District Court on June 11. In Cork City 16 men and 9 women have been arrested as part of 'Operation Emerson' where Gardaí at Anglesea Street led a focused operation to tackle those involved in the sale and supply of Heroin in Cork city. All of those arrested are today before Cork District Court in answer to the charges. Over the past 48 hours over 100 Gardaí in Dublin, Wexford and Cork have been involved in the arrest phase of these operations. Searches were carried out at over 50 residential addresses by drug unit personnel supported by Regional Support Units, Detective Units, Dog Units and the Drug and Organised Crime Bureau. Those arrested by Gardaí have been detained pursuant to the provisions of Section 4 of the Criminal Justice Act or Section 2 of the Drug Trafficking Act and interviewed in relation to multiple counts of drug supply in all three locations over the course of the 6 month operation. In response to concerns expressed in local communities, Gardaí put in place long term intelligence-led operations aimed at gathering evidence against significant drug dealers and effectively dismantle organised criminal groups operating in the Cork, Wexford and Dublin areas. Chief Superintendent Michael O'Sullivan of the Drugs and Organised Crime Bureau said these operations reflect the commitment of An Garda Síochána to tackling the sale and supply of drugs at all levels in our society. 'We thank those people who raised concerns regarding the sale of drugs in their local community and for their patience in allowing us the time to go about our investigation, which was methodical and thorough. The scourge of drugs in local communities can only be combated with local community support. An Garda Síochána will continue to play our part as is shown by this operation'. '60 people will now go before the courts to face serious charges regarding the supply of drugs on a persistent basis within these areas. An Garda Síochána will continue to work together with communities to ensure a coordinated and effective approach to protecting our society, individuals and their families from the harm and pain caused by drug use'. Wexford People 
