drugs
{  
    April 06 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/localnotes/sligoman-jailed-for-10-years-in-drugs-case-27534736.html }
A 22 years old man has received a ten years sentence for drugs offences by Judge Anthony Kennedy at the Circuit Court, the first time that the mandatory minimum term for such a crime has been imposed by a court in Sligo. Keith Murray, 10 Union Place and Oxfield Road, Drumcliffe, who previously served a three years sentence for a drugs offence, was convicted by a jury last month and was sentenced on Friday last along with co-accused, Stephen Conlon (21) of 18 Willow Park, Maugheraboy who received a five years jail term. The two men were charged in relation to drugs seizures amounting to ?56,500 in the town last September when cocaine to the value of ?14,000 and Cannabis Resin worth ?42,500 were seized in a joint operation between Gardai and Customs that began with a tip-off from British Customs about a suspicious Federal Express package that had been sent from Boston in the United States. During the sentencing hearing, Judge Kennedy pointed out that the ten years minimum mandatory sentence needn't be imposed if there were exceptional or specific circumstances but that these did not apply in Murray's case. It was clear, said the Judge, that Murray was a repeat offender and that he had planned and premeditated the storing of cannabis resin at his girlfriend's house at Willow Park. Judge Kennedy described as a new phenomenon the sending of drugs through the postal system.  Seven Counts Murray, who had pleaded not guilty, had been arraigned on seven counts. He was charged with possession of cocaine for the purpose of sale or supply at Union Street on September 29th 2003 and with possession of cannabis resin for the purpose of sale or supply at Willow Park on the same date. He was also charged with possession of drugs, which had an aggregate value of ?13,000 or more, for the purpose of sale or supply. Murray also faced other charges of possession of a small quantity of cannabis resin and one ecstasy tablet at Oxfield Road, Drumcliffe. Conlon had pleaded guilty to possession of cocaine and cannabis resin, drugs with a value of ?13,000 or more for the purpose of sale or supply, a charge which also carried the minimum mandatory term of ten years. Following a three day trial before a jury of seven women and five men, Murray was found guilty on two charges relating to the possession of cannabis resin and having the drug for the purpose of sale or supply at Willow Park. Murray was unanimously found guilty of being in possession of cannabis resin which had a value of ?13,000 or more for the purpose of sale or supply. The accused was acquitted of the cocaine charges while the counts relating to Oxfield Road were withdrawn from the jury.  Package The court was told that a package containing 142 grammes of cocaine was sent through the post to an address at Union Place but Customs in Britain became suspicious and tipped off their colleagues in Ireland and the Gardai were alerted who set up an undercover operation. A Garda posed as a Federal Express delivery man to bring the package to Union Place and soon after the parcel was signed for, Gardai raided the address and Murray and Conlon were arrested. In a follow up search at Conlon's house at Willow Park in Maugheraboy, where Murray's girlfriend, Lisa Conlon also stayed, Gardai found 13 and a half nine ounce bars of cannabis resin worth ?42,500 which was of sufficient quantity to make 31,750 handrolled cigarettes. Murray was represented by Mr. Gerard Clarke S.C. with Mr. Kerida Naidoo B.L., instructed by Mr. Mark Mullaney, solicitor while Mr. Colm Smyth S.C. with Gerry Groarke B.L., instructed by Mr. Gerard McGovern, solicitor appeared on behalf of Conlon. At the sentencing hearing, Garda William O'Neill of the Sligo/Leitrim Divisional Drugs Unit, in evidence, recounted how the Gardai and Customs' officers carried out a controlled delivery of the FedEx package to 10 Union Place at 11.30 a.m. on September 29th last and how a search was subsequently carried out at 18 Willow Park at 12.35 p.m. Witness said Murray, an only child, had been in trouble with the law since the age of 14. He and his partner, Lisa Conlon, had one child. Murray had a number of previous convictions dating back to 1999. In July 2000, Murray received a three years sentence from Judge Carroll Moran at Sligo Circuit Court relating to the seizure of 300 ecstasy tablets. In 2003, Murray received a six months suspended sentence at the District Court for the possession of ten ecstasy tablets. In 2003 he was also convicted of obstructing Gardai under the Misuse of Drugs Act and sentenced to six months in prison.  False name Detective Garda Pauline McDonagh, in evidence, said Conlon had signed a false name to take delivery of the FedEx box from the undercover Garda. He subsequently pleaded guilty to possession of cannabis resin and cocaine with a value of over ?13,000 for the purpose of sale or supply. Witness said that while Conlon did not have any previous convictions he would have been known to the Drugs Unit as a drugs user and as a small time dealer. He had admitted the offences at an early stage. Det. Garda McDonagh said Conlon didn't give her as much detail about the finds as she would have liked but he had admitted to being in fear. In reply to Mr. Smyth, witness agreed it would be fair to say she was taken aback by his level of involvement and that he was genuinely afraid "of naming names." Witness also accepted that Conlon would have been dealing with "dangerous people." In relation to his statement, Det. Garda McDonagh said Conlon told Gardai he didn't know there would be cocaine in the box but that he knew "it was dodgy." "It's fair to say he was a mule in this business" - Mr. Smyth. "It would certainly appear that way" - Det. Garda McDonagh. In his submission, Mr. Clarke said Murray maintained his innocence despite the verdict of the jury and therefore no apology could be tendered. Mr. Clarke went on to address the Judge in relation to the mandatory minimum sentence of ten years and produced case law on the matter. He referred to a previous case where an accused found in possession of ?700,000 worth of heroin received a seven years sentence, a term that was upheld by the Court of Criminal Appeal. In Murray's case, the drug was cannabis and some regard should be given for that, said Mr. Clarke. He also pointed out that while the jury found Murray guilty of three separate counts these were in respect of the same amount of cannabis. Mr. Clarke submitted that Murray should therefore only be sentenced on one count only, that of having the drug worth over ?13,000 for the purpose of sale or supply. In a plea on behalf of Conlon, Mr. Smyth said he did not have any previous convictions and had been in employment since leaving school.  'Mule' Conlon had been dealing with and had been employed by "dangerous people" and was used by them as a mule. This had been accepted by Det. Garda McDonagh. Mr. Smyth said Conlon had pleaded guilty to an offence which attracted a mandatory minimum sentence of years but this did not have to imposed if there were exceptional and specific circumstances. These included a guilty plea which Conlon had entered at an early stage. He was also in genuine fear for his safety and had been working as a mule. He was also unaware that the package contained cocaine. "I would ask you not to impose the mandatory ten years but to be as lenient as you can. He's not the ring leader in this case by any stretch of the imagination. He knows he has to be punished but he pleads for you to be merciful," said Mr. Smyth. Handing down sentence, Judge Kennedy said Murray was not entitled as a matter of law to the exceptional and specific circumstances with regard to the imposing of the mandatory ten years sentence. For Murray to fight the case was not an aggravating factor but this meant there was the absence of credit for a guilty plea. It was plain that Murray was a repeat offender, said the Judge. He noted that after serving a three years sentence Murray had two further drugs convictions. Other aggravating factors in this case were the fact that Murray had planned and premeditated the storing of the cannabis resin at his girlfriend's house and there had been no plea that he had been acting under duress.  Leading role "He played a leading role in the possession of this cannabis despite Conlon's attempts to exonerate him which the jury didn't believe," said Judge Kennedy. He accepted the point made by Mr. Clarke that Murray was not one of the dangerous people whom Mr. Smyth had established Conlon was afraid of. With regard to Conlon, the Judge said that while he too was liable to the ten year minimum sentence he could be dealt with more leniently than Murray. The Judge noted that there had been an early plea of guilty. Other mitigating factors he had to consider were whether Conlon had materially assisted in the Garda investigation of the offence and he noted Det. Garda McDonagh's evidence that he had co-operated as best he could. Conlon did not have any previous convictions but was known to the Gardai as a petty user and pusher. Conlon was genuinely fearful of the people behind the transactions to reveal any more than he did and Judge Kennedy said he accepted the Garda's evidence in this regard. Judge Kennedy said it was a new phenomenon for drugs like this to be smuggled by post and while Conlon said he did not know specifically that the package contained cocaine he was suspicious that it was drugs of some kind. The Judge also noted that Det. Garda McDonagh accepted that Conlon was "out of his league at this high level." The aggravating factors were that Conlon's participation, though minor, had been deliberate. He had however, been involved for very little profit and had co-operated. "It could be said he had little option given the strength of the case against him," said Judge Kennedy. The Judge added that there had been no expression by Conlon of regret for his participation. The Judge sentenced Murray to one year and four years in relation to the two counts of possession of the cannabis resin for sale or supply at Willow Park. A ten years sentence was imposed for possession of drugs worth ?13,000 or more for the purpose of sale or supply. Conlon was given a five years sentence. The terms were backdated to September 29th 2003 when Murray and Conlon were taken into custody. An order was made for the destruction of the drugs. Leave to appeal was refused in both cases. 
