drugs
{  
    July 25 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/stupid-pat-carey-is-seeking-to-control-our-free-will-by-creating-north-korea-of-mobile-phones-26306830.html }
OUR brilliant, brand-new Supremo Against Drugs Pat Carey plans to register all four million mobile-phone users in Ireland, in order to stamp out the drugs trade. Naturally, he says, it's a matter of life or death. Now idiotic arrogance has always been the hallmark of those who wish to regulate the free behaviour of free people, but seldom has such idiocy stooped to the abyss of this proposed policy. For it will simply create a market for black-market phones, and what is the easiest source of these? Schoolchildren, mugging of, naturally. And having stolen the youngsters' mobile phones, the gangsters can then sell their drugs to their victims' elder siblings. And that's it. It's always it. As the pioneering experiment in social control, prohibitionism in the US, showed, when you try to control people's personal behaviour, you simply create new opportunities for lawlessness. The marketplace is already there. Every teenager in Ireland either takes illegal drugs or knows someone who does. Moreover, today's drug users are the children of people who took drugs themselves or knew people who took drugs and did not inform the gardai. But far from this lived reality changing policy, and far from decriminalising the hundreds of thousands who regularly break a stupid, unenforceable law, SAD Pat Carey is heading in the opposite direction: fresh laws, with presumably another bureaucratic layer to enforce them. This is all too stupid for words; but it matches in downright imbecility all the previous attempts to outlaw what cannot be successfully repressed: free will. IF people want to take drugs, one way or another they will outwit the law. And if necessary, they will turn to criminal cartels, who have been granted a monopoly over the drugs market by a series of obliging governments. And SAD now intends to tackle these government-created cartels by monitoring the mobile phones of the entire population. of Ireland. Madness. Utter madness. Drugs traffickers will have two main ways of defeating the government policy. The first one, the paediatric option, we've discussed. Alternatively, since drugs traffickers can effortlessly import Kalashnikov assault rifles from central Europe, they can probably manage to bring in a few thousand mobile phones over the unpoliced border between Armagh and Louth. And then they'll probably use those, while they give their lawful, ID-authenticated phone to their 85-year-old Nan. This will enable An Garda Siochana to follow her, by means of signal triangulation, from morning Mass to 25 different widdles around town, thus prompting raids by armed gardai on a succession of ladies loos, screaming, knickerless pensioners erupting from them like rabbits from a ferreted warren, concluding the day's festivities with evening bingo and batons all round. Meanwhile, young Wayne, with his British-based phone, has supplied half the Montessori pupils in Tallaght (whose phones were stolen on the way to school by his brother) with crack cocaine. So then what? Do we block all foreign mobile phones in Ireland? Excellent for visiting business executives and tourists. And do we also insist that you can only carry a mobile phone which has been registered in your name? That'll mean even more police, and more random searches in our very own telephonic North Korea. Meanwhile, those filthy, underhand criminals will start using pay phones to speak to one another: at which point the drugs supremo will deploy JCB-wielding gardai to uproot all kiosks. Then he will outlaw tin cans on string. Then semaphore flags. Then Braille. The scale of the current megalomania is illustrated by SAD Pat Carey's further plan to target "gateway" drugs - and these include (oh wait for this) alcohol. Sweet suffering Jesus. For nothing reveals our irrepressible will more than our determination to drink more than is good for us, regardless of what countless governments have been telling us. Target booze? You might as well target air: because it is a well-known fact that all drugs users begin by breathing air, and it is an equally well-known fact that people who have ceased breathing also cease taking drugs. Listen: a state which cannot prevent Mountjoy Jail from being its drugs capital is unlikely to be able to enforce its ridiculous new laws. Will that stop SAD Pat Carey proceeding down this insane, power-gathering path? Of course not. Drugs and phone laws are amongst the few indigenous tasks still available to ministers these days, with virtually all other laws emanating from Brussels. So though the policies might not work, SAD Pat Carey can still murmur to himself: "A poor virgin, sir, an ill-favor'd thing, sir, but mine own." SUCH stupidity is not confined to this jurisdiction. In Britain, the Abominable Brown intends to recategorise marijuana as a serious narcotic because of the strength of the current drug. But it is the very illegality of cannabis which has changed its nature. Market marijuana is no longer grown naturally in Morocco, but artificially in greenhouses in Milton Keynes, where it is fed growth accelerators which intensify its content of TPC hallucinogens. Recategorising all cannabis because of the potent variety grown by drugs gangs to whom you have handed a monopoly is like introducing prohibition, then recategorising Jameson as a dangerous drug because of bad poitin. Bah. This is all balderdash, piffle and nonsense, otherwise known in Ireland as SAD Pat Carey, village idiot. 
