drugs
{  
    August 03 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/why-taxpayers-are-continuing-to-suffer-the-pain-of-overpriced-drugs-25969458.html }
The wider use of generics would greatly reduce the costs of drugs, but don't hold your breath on any improvement for private and public purses any time soon THE ever-increasing costs of drugs in Ireland could be dramatically cut if there was greater use of generic medicines. The taxpayers' bill for drugs under various State schemes comes to around ?1bn a year, and some estimates reckon this could be reduced by up to 25pc if more generics were prescribed. Such a reduction would lop a whopping ?250m off the annual medicines bill for the Department of Health. At the moment, generics only account for about 8pc of the Irish market, compared with 39pc in Germany and 60pc in Britain. The Government-funded National Centre for Pharmacoeconomics (NCPE) produced a report revealing that in 2003 over a fifth of prescription items were dispensed as proprietary (ie brand name drugs) when a cheaper, generic version of the drug was available. According to the NCPE, seven of the 30 most costly drugs dispensed to medical cardholders have a generic equivalent. The NCPE study comes up with modest savings. If the cheapest generic drugs were prescribed, it would knock ?12.7m off the State's annual drugs bill. It's a similar story on the Drug Payment Scheme. Substituting the eight of the top 30 drugs that have generic equivalents would save ?9.1m annually. In a research report produced last week, Goodbody analyst Ian Hunter said the drugs market in Ireland exhibited a "consumer culture dominated by brand names". Generics account for just 12pc of prescriptions on a value basis. However, some 85pc of these generics are what is known as branded generics. A branded generic is one whose original patent has expired, which allows other pharma companies to make an identical product. For example, the patent ran out on Losec in 2002, and it is now produced by Clonmel Healthcare as Losamel. In contract, a true generic does not carry a brand name. It will be prescribed under its chemical name. For example, paracetamol does not carry a brand name. True generics are a fraction of the cost of branded generics. Dr Hunter estimates that if true generics were used more extensively in this country, potential savings of between 20pc and 23pc are possible. For example, generic Prozac is 23pc cheaper than the Eli Lilly original branded version. (See accompanying graphic). Greater use of generics could save the taxpayer millions; it's a no-brainer. So why are they not used more often? Here are six reasons why generic drugs remain a small part of the Irish drugs market: (1) Pressure from the powerful industry lobby Any move to promote greater use of generics is likely to be fiercely opposed by the powerful drug manufacturing sector. The industry, which is represented by the Irish Pharmaceutical Healthcare Association (IPHA), did not mince its words recently when opposing greater use of generics. In a statement, the IPHA spoke of such a move being a "regressive step" which could lead to problems for older people who could become confused if they were offered a generic which was a different shape or colour to their usual drug. The prices of drugs are set by agreement between the IPHA and the Government every five years. Talks on a new agreement are set to begin in September. For the past 13 years, drug prices have been frozen. That sounds good; but they should have actually fallen. Drug prices have fallen in other countries due to greater use of generics and more competition in the pharmaceutical market. (2) Pharmacists not allowed to substitute 'Generic substitution', whereby a pharmacist could dispense the cheapest generic even if the doctor has prescribed the original brand, is not allowed at the moment. The Irish Pharmaceutical Union, which represents 1,600 pharmacists, is in favour of chemists having the right to prescribe generics. But the IPU is against any legislation making it mandatory to provide the cheapest version of a drug. (3) Pharmacists' 50pc mark-up The existence of the 50pc mark-up, which allows pharmacists to add 50pc to the wholesale price for drugs other than those dispensed under the Medical Card scheme, means there is no incentive to substitute generics. The lower the baseline cost of the drug, the less their 50pc mark-up generates. It is significant also that pharmacists are not allowed to advertise prescription drug prices. (4) Generics here are branded generics, not true generics Most generics in the Irish market are branded generics, rather than true generics, which means full cost savings are not available. Branded generics are around 20pc cheaper than branded originals (the high cost is allowed to originals, so drug developers can recoup expensive R&D costs). However, one drugs' supplier told 
Business he could cut the wholesale cost of many drugs by 80pc by offering genuine generics to pharmacists. The supplier, who did not want to be named, claimed drugs manufacturers and retail pharmacists did not want genuine generics in the market as it would undercut their margins. (5) Doctors are encouraged by pharma companies to prescribe branded drugs There has long been a suspicion that drug companies influence doctors' prescribing habits. Recently the 'British Medical Journal' found evidence of this. Drug companies influence doctors through discussions with sales representatives or through sales drives dressed up as medical education. In a strongly-worded editorial headed 'No more free lunches', the 'BMJ' concluded that doctors and drug companies are "entwined in an embrace of avarice and excess, an embrace that distorts medical information and patient care". To counteract this, there is a scheme negotiated between the Irish government and the Irish Medical Organisation which encourages doctors to prescribe generic drugs in return for funding to develop general practice. (6) Inertia in the system With so many vested interests, and so many other intractable problems to tackle in the health service, it is hardly surprising that the generics issue seems to be down the agenda. For example, the Secretary General of the Department of Health said in 2003: "When one begins to strip down and look at the true potential to make savings through the use of generics, one moves from an intuitive feeling that it is an attractive proposition . . ." However, a spokeswoman for the Department of Health said it did intend to pursue the issue of generic use, but it is not in a position to give details of its intentions ahead of negotiations with the drugs industry. But the six reasons above cast doubt on the extent to which generics will become a big feature of the Irish pharmaceutical market. So, don't expect any major savings or lower taxes from greater use of generics. When it comes to drugs, as is the case with many goods, the brand is king.  Charlie Weston 
