drugs
{  
    February 18 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/if-ann-marie-was-here-shed-be-given-every-chance-to-live-26400236.html }
A 54-year-old woman was this week 'sentenced' to almost certain death by a UK court because she can't afford a new miracle drug, but ... In London this week, a distraught grandmother sat in a courtroom and heard a judge pronounce what could be her death sentence. Breast cancer sufferer Ann Marie Rogers (54) wants the National Health Service to pay for a "wonder drug" called Herceptin which has the potential to save her life. She'd gladly pay for it herself, but she can't afford it; the drug costs up to ?32,000 for one year's treatment. In a landmark judgement, she was deemed not to qualify for the treatment because her case is not "exceptional". Campaigners say the real reason the NHS won't pay for the drug is because it costs too much. If Ms Rogers lived in Ireland, her situation would be dramatically different. Both public and private patients in this country here have full access to Herceptin and many other expensive new drugs, irrespective of the cost. For public patients, the State foots the bill. And if you're a private patient, the medical insurance companies will cover the cost. Herceptin is just one of a range of new so-called miracle drugs which are now becoming available to people who might previously have had little hope. The downside is that many of them are very expensive indeed. Without State support or private medical cover, only the extremely wealthy could afford them. Herceptin is, in fact, among the cheaper ones. A drug called Glivec, which effectively cures one particular type of leukaemia, costs around ?55,000 a year. And patients have to continue taking it to ensure they stay alive. The situation here is one which patients and doctors hope will continue. However, health budgets are finite and as the present huge advances in medicine continue, more money will be required to pay for new wonder remedies. Developing a specialised new medicine and putting it on the market is an incredibly expensive process. A new product can cost anything up to a billion dollars before it is approved for use. For every new medicine which reaches the marketplace, another 10,000 never get past the development stage or fall down during clinical trials. On average, the whole process can take anything from eight to 12 years. The competition between pharmaceutical companies is further increased by the fact that the patent on every medical product expires after 20 years - from the time of its discovery. This means the company may have as little as eight years to recoup its enormous costs and make a profit. If the medicine is for a specialised condition, with a relatively small number of potential users, it is likely to be even more expensive. Once the 20-year patent ends, it is open to all other pharmaceutical companies to jump in and start making their own generic form of the medicine. For specialist experts like John Crown, money can never be allowed to dictate the quality of care which they give their patients, though it inevitably impinges on how well they can do their jobs. Professor Crown, consulting oncologist at St Vincent's Hospital, Dublin, is passionate in his belief that patients should have access to the best available medicines to save or prolong their lives. "The situation in Britain is a disaster right now," he says frankly. "The bureaucrats have been very good at quickly tightening the muzzle on the new drugs that are coming on, and putting various committees in place to limit their use. "The UK has the worst breast cancer survival of any developed nation and has the worst access to most of the new anti-cancer drugs. All manner of drugs that are routinely used in Ireland and other parts of Europe are denied to cancer patients in the UK. "There's a philosophy abroad in many health systems that you shouldn't let people have uncontrolled access to these drugs because every time you give somebody a new cancer drug, it means that some little old lady someplace else is not getting her hearing aid. "You can make a very rational argument that resources are finite, that they have to cut the pie in a number of ways. Every euro we spend on expensive cancer drugs is a euro we don't have to spend on something else. "In theory, that's fine. But in reality, that's not what happens. The money gets spent on tribunals and barristers, it gets spent on programme managers, on the PPARs computer system and all kinds of things. "If the doctors line up on the cost containment side of the argument with the bureaucrats, then no-one is advocating for the patients. It's important that the doctors be resolutely on the patients' side in this argument." To date, he says, there has not been a problem in this country with accessing drugs such as Herceptin. If anything, public patients have done slightly better than their private counterparts. The private medical insurance companies, he hints, have sometimes lagged a little behind the State in making all treatments available. Professor Crown says there are around 2,000 breast cancer cases a year in Ireland. Herceptin will be relevant in the treatment of between 200 and 400 of these. He describes Herceptin as "a fantastic treatment. If the cancer has spread, it adds on average six months or a year of extra survival beyond what the patient would get with chemotherapy alone. "But more impressively for patients with early stage disease, there has been as much as a 50pc reduction in the risk of relapsing with secondary cancer. So it's made a huge difference. "The other two drugs which have really set the world rockin' are Avastin, a very novel drug which starves tumours of their blood supply, and Erbitux. Both of these have had important effects on bowel cancer which has spread." Says Ann Broekhoven, of BUPA Ireland: "When a new drug comes on the market, usually somebody contacts us to ask if we're paying for it. This is usually a consultant, but occasionally it's a pharmaceutical company." "By and large, we don't fund experimental treatments. We don't cover drugs for use in clinical trials. These are used fairly regularly in Irish hospitals under defined programmes and in general are sponsored by the drugs companies themselves." She adds that BUPA has never declined to pay for Herceptin. Professor Crown says it is a very exciting time in cancer treatment; there is "unbelievable" stuff coming down the line. "We have a hatful of new drugs coming out. The bad news is that they're all going to work a bit. I don't think any of them are going to cure cancer, but they will enable patients with cancer to live longer and better. "A lot of the new treatments will be tablets that people will take, hopefully for many years. As a result, there will be a lot of patients living out there with cancer who will be doing a whole lot better than they would have done otherwise. "I think we've actually learned from the Aids doctors who didn't discover a cure for Aids. But they discovered really, really good treatments that have made people live much longer and with a better quality of life." This is obviously very good news for future cancer victims. The financial cost will be high. But the benefits in human terms will be incalculable. 
