drugs
{ Emer O'Kelly 
    July 22 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/free-access-to-drugs-should-not-be-an-option-in-jail-26414396.html }
A 26-YEAR-OLD woman has stayed out of jail because she's afraid of going there. Is she afraid of being knifed? Of being sexually assaulted? Of being bullied, or perhaps worse, by guards? None of those: the woman is afraid that if she is sent to Mountjoy jail, she will find access to drugs far easier than it is on the street. Andshe doesn't want to have access to drugs. Rachel Keogh is already a drug addict. Her addiction has turned her into a thief on a comparatively massive scale. She was arrested in the centre of Dublin on July 1 to face a number of charges: theft of several hundred euro worth of property earlier in the day, and a charge of having escaped from Garda custody the previous day. There were already three bench warrants out for her relating to theft of Lacoste merchandise worth more than ?600 from Louis Copeland in Capel Street in Dublin, and more than ?400-worth of cosmetics from Dunnes Stores in the Stephen's Green Shopping Centre. Her solicitor told the District Court that the young woman was desperately seeking a place at the residential detoxification course at Cherry Orchard Hospital. But there won't be a place for her there for months. In the meantime, Judge Cormac Dunne has released her on her own bail, subject to a night curfew, and the condition that she lives with her mother, while attending the National Drug Centre at Trinity Court. She will be provided with counselling there, as well as a prescribed heroin substitute. Clearly the judge is a decent, compassionate man, and believed Rachel Keogh's fear of being lost to drugs forever if she went to Mountjoy was a realistic one. And given the number of previous offences and outstanding warrants, he also believed that her criminal problems stemmed from her drug addiction. It is equally clear - although nobody, least of all Rachel Keogh or the good judge, said or implied it - that there's very little faith in the efficacy of the help offered by Trinity Court in setting people free from their addictions in order to live normal lives. And while the heroin substitute methadone is undoubtedly less undesirable than what it replaces for patients prescribed it, it seems to set up its own addiction; in 'Shouldn't we at least ensure that addiction doesn't become worse in prison, and that people don't get introduced to its horrors while under the State's care?' prison, it is regarded as one of the methods by which people can be kept calm. Which brings us to Mountjoy, and Rachel Keogh's terrified plea not to be sent there. It is widely believed that lethal drugs are freely available in the prison. So if people go into Mountjoy who are not drug addicts, do we have to worry that if they are serving medium- to long-term sentences they will come out hopelessly addicted? The Governor of Mountjoy, John Lonergan, acknowledged the drugs problem at a legal conference in Dublin in 2004, saying, "Every drug that comes into Mountjoy comes up the North Circular Road. Perhaps if you cut off the supply on the North Circular Road, we too would have drug-free areas in Mountjoy." Lonergan is a widely respected figure in the world of criminology. As recently as last week, he said that being in prison was punishment enough for anybody. Loss of liberty is the punishment; further measures are excessive unless required in particular circumstances. So the regime in Mountjoy is not draconian. Registered drug addicts can get their methadone while in prison. And for those who are not drug addicted, the regime could be called fairly benevolent. (Most violent criminals are in Portlaoise, and not in Mountjoy.) Meanwhile, these "bearable" conditions are having effects outside the prison: an addict who wants to get her life straight is hysterical at the thought of being put somewhere that she believes is addict heaven. But of course, tougher, "unbearable" conditions would have an adverse effect outside the prison. At the moment, prisoners are allowed to see their families face to face; they can kiss their babies. Very few of them are subjected to anything other than a cursory search following a visit. To put screens between prisoners and visitors, maybe even permitting them only to speak through telephones, would penalise the families. Body searches as a matter of course following visits would be an invasion of the prisoners' civil rights, as would searchesof the family members as they enter the prison. That's the argument. Yes. But. What about the right of a prisoner to come out of jail in the whole of his or her health? We talk of prison's duty of rehabilitation. It's arguable that you can only begin rehabilitation for someone once they are drug-free and anxious to remain that way. So however traumatic the detoxification period, it could be deemed to be worth it. And most people who have got clean and stayed clean testify that it is indeed worth it. So even if we're not prepared to introduce a regime of compulsory detoxification in our prisons, shouldn't we at least ensure that addiction doesn't become worse in prison, and that people free of addiction don't get introduced to its horrors while under the State's care? The Irish Penal Reform Trust is strenuously opposed to the introduction of tougher prison conditions. And in an ideal world, they would be right to maintain their opposition. Mature societies do not adopt patriarchal measures under which people are unable to exercise choice. The trouble is that Ireland is not a mature society (although everybody keeps talking about how mature we are, defining maturity as spending vast sums of money on consumer goods). People serving prison sentences have made choices: they have chosen to batten on the rest of society and on their families. It is they who have deprived their families of their presence, not the State. They may even have influenced family members (it happens!) in a criminal outlook. They may even have histories of violence towards their families. If a man who outside prison beats his wife expects her to smuggle drugs in to prison under the guise of his desire to see his little baby, she may be too frightened to refuse. And if the man is using his baby for illicit drug dealing, that is beneath contempt. Everybody, not least the prisoner, deserves to be protected from all of this. It is not kind, decent, or responsible to allow a prison system that turns a blind eye to continuing human misery. The prison authorities should be working against it, not with it. To work against it would undoubtedly make life tougher for prison staff: there might be more instances of violence, there would be many more fights and mini-riots. But if the prison ended up clear of drugs, and stayed that way, everyone would benefit. That means a tougher life for prison officers, prisoners and their families. It means strip searches, restricted visiting facilities, invasive cell searches; it will mean horror. But it might mean prisoners coming out of jail clean of drugs, and facing opportunities in life that they never would have believed possible. It might work; and what we have now sure as hell isn't working. Ask Rachel Keogh. 
