drugs
{  
    December 22 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/heroin-threat-hangs-over-kerry-as-drug-abuse-soars-27365717.html }
THE abuse and sale of heroin in Kerry is now inevitable as the county continues to battle with increasing quantities of hard drugs.Kerry’s main residential drug treatment centre warned this week of the inevitable arrival of heroin to Kerry in the near future. THE abuse and sale of heroin in Kerry is now inevitable as the county continues to battle with increasing quantities of hard drugs. Kerry’s main residential drug treatment centre warned this week of the inevitable arrival of heroin to Kerry in the near future. Director of the Talbot Grove addiction treatment centre in Castleisland Con Cremin said that he has “significant concerns about the potential arrival of heroin on the market in Kerry,” which will be witnessed sooner rather than later. Mr Cremin’s comments came in the wake of the release of drugs seizure statistics for Kerry which show that hard ‘Class A’ drugs are now dominating the drug users’ market in the county. There has been a massive increase in the use of cocaine in the county – gardaí seized over 945 grammes of the deadly drug up to October of this year in 23 separate seizures. This compares to 557 grammes seized during 13 separate seizures over all of last year. There were also significant increases in the quantities of cannabis, cannabis resin and ecstasy tablets seized for the first 10 months of this year compared to all of 2004. But the most worrying trend now developing in Kerry is the anticipated arrival of heroin on the streets of the county. There was just one seizure so far this year, which comprised a small quantity in the possession of a known user. However, according to gardaí, the use of heroin has exploded in Limerick – one of the main source locations for drugs that arrive through North Kerry into Tralee. There are currently less than 10 heroin users in Kerry and these are known to the Garda Drugs Unit in the county. All of the users acquired a heroin habit before they arrived in the county. Gardaí believe none of them are currently dealing heroin and they that they travel outside of the county to source the lethal drug. Mr Cremin said that he has seen a marked change in the use of heroin over the last year. He said that the drug is growing in popularity in towns outside of Kerry – many of which have a smaller population than Tralee. Practically all of the county towns along the N7 route from Dublin to Kerry have now acquired a heroin problem and it is only a matter of time before heroin use becomes a reality in Kerry’s larger towns, he said. The Garda Drugs Unit in Kerry said that they are well-aware of the spread of heroin use outside of areas in Limerick and Dublin that are normally associated with the drug. “We’re watching heroin and its distribution like a fox. We’re not in any way complacent about it,” said a senior drugs unit source. A factor in the delayed arrival of heroin to Kerry may be the social factors – associated with some inner-cities areas – that do not exist to a large extent in Kerry. “Another comforting factor is that people talk about people who do heroin, even if it’s for their own safety,” the garda source said. The source confirmed that cocaine use has soared in Kerry: its availability has increased, its street price has dropped dramatically to about ?70 a gramme and it is commonly becoming a drug of choice among ‘recreational’ drug users. Contrary to the rise in the availability of cocaine in the county, there has been a marked drop in the availability of ecstasy in Kerry over the last month. Major seizures in Dublin and Limerick that took hundreds of thousands of tablets off the streets have had a knock-on affect in the market all over the country. Users in Kerry as now willing to pay up to ?10 for an ecstasy tablet - the drug had dropped to ?5 in Kerry before the recent garda successes. 
