drugs
{  
    December 21 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/kerry-targeted-in-drugs-sting-27361144.html }
QUANTITIES of cocaine and ecstasy purchased in Kerry by undercover gardaí in the biggest operation of its type ever mounted in the county are currently being analysed in Dublin.Up to 12 officers from the National Drugs Unit in Harcourt Square and the Kerry Divisional Drugs Unit mounted the operation over two nights as part of a specialised drugs swoop known as Operati QUANTITIES of cocaine and ecstasy purchased in Kerry by undercover gardaí in the biggest operation of its type ever mounted in the county are currently being analysed in Dublin. Up to 12 officers from the National Drugs Unit in Harcourt Square and the Kerry Divisional Drugs Unit mounted the operation over two nights as part of a specialised drugs swoop known as Operation Cleanstreet. The officers — posing as drug users — targeted at least eight premises in Tralee, including pubs, and purchased drugs, mainly ecstasy and cocaine. Some of the dealers they encountered were known to local gardaí but others were not. No arrests were made and it is expected that further undercover operations will follow. Head of the Divisional Drugs Unit in Kerry, Inspector Jim O’Connor, confirmed that a swoop took place but refused to be drawn on the details for operational reasons. In a separate drugs search over the same weekend, gardaí seized 320 ecstasy tablets in a licensed premises in Tralee. All of the drugs seized and purchased were sent for analysis to the Garda Forensic Laboratory. The Operation Cleanstreet swoop was the biggest of its type ever mounted in Kerry and targeted some of the county’s key drug dealers and locations where drug sales and supply is taking place. Operation Cleanstreet commenced in December, 1997, targeting on-street heroin dealers in the Dublin area. So successful was the initiative that it was extend to some other parts of the country. Undercover gardaí visit areas where suspected drug dealing is taking place and when approached they buy drugs, using marked money, from the pushers. In some instances, when the undercover garda moves away, uniformed gardaí arrest the drug pusher for the purpose of a drug search and confiscate the marked money and whatever other drugs he or she has. 
