drugs
{  
    March 07 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/when-alcohol-abusers-are-26908794.html }
by Margaret Roddy Over half the people who attended for treatment for drug abuse in the North Eastern Health Board area came from Co Louth, it was revealed at the Boards monthly meeting in Kells last week. Members considered a report which showed that the numbers of drug users attending for treatment within the region had grown from 71 in 1998 to 370 in 2001. Over half (51.9 per cent) of those who attended for treatment within the region were from Co Louth, while under a third (30.5 per cent) were from Co Meath. Eighty per cent of those who attended clinics were males, and approximately two-thirds of both males and females were aged between 15 and 24 years. Eleven were under the age of fifteen years. There was a sharp increase in the numbers using cannabis and heroine, with Ecstasy being the third most common drug abused by clients. Assistant CEO Mr. Geoff Day said that the conclusions to be drawn from the data in the report are that “more drug misusers each year are attending the treatment services within the Board’s area and that themain drugs of misuse are cannabis and heroine. These findings probably reflect a rise in the number misusing drugs in the region and the availability of more accessible services.” Deputy Fergus O’Dowd said that it was a very good report. He was concerned that the National Drugs Strategy was not receiving adequate funding and he wondered if there would be sufficient funding for the setting up of the Regional Drugs Task Force in the area. The problems posed by drug abuse to society were shown by heroine dealers shooting each other on the streets of Dublin and other cities and by the deaths of two youth people in Wicklow who had taken contaiminated drugs. He was concerned that heroine was being used by people in deprived areas who were educationally disadvantaged and it was the only buzz they could find in life. He believed that they needed to provide young people with an alternative, by putting in recreational amentities in all our towns. Dr Teresa Carey, psychiatrist, said it was important to remember that the single biggest drug of abuse is alcohol. If they were to add the numbers of young people who go out to get plastered to the figure who misuse drugs, they would have “a really frightening picture of what is going on in the region.” It was, she said, disturbing that they were now getting referrals for children as young as ten or eleven, and she wondered if the Board’s counsellors were properly trained to work with people of that age. Colr Jim Cousins said he saw some hope in the numbers attending the Board’s clinic and the hope was that some of them would be saved. However, he wondered how many other drug users were out there who didn’t avail of treatment. He felt that the statistics included in the report should be sent to schools and third level institutions. Drug abuse was no respector of socio/economic groups as drug abusers came from every group. He had spoken to the best of parents who were at their wits end because of their children, didn’t know where they went wrong and blamed themselves. However, he felt it was outside infuences, evil influences, which were to blame. Dr Declan Bedford pointed out that all the evidence which they had showed that almost no one took drugs who didn’t smoke or drink first. It was, he said, a very complex problem and they needed to adopt a complete new approach to dealing with it. Unfortunately drugs took their toll on the poorer end of society. He had watched the horrific RTE programme about cocaine in Dublin which was causing so much needless suffering. “We need to empower our young people by giving them education and jobs,” he said. Mr Day agreed that a multi-stranded approach was needed. He pointed out that the Board had in play their own regional drugs task force which did very good work. They employ a staff of 25 people working on drugs/alcohol issues, as well as a number working on general health promotion. While they had made a considerable impact it clearly wasn’t enough. There were still plans to appoint a Regional Director but it would require funds. He also told members that there were legal difficulties faced when working with young people as issues such as parental consent were invovled. And he confirmed that a Regional Drugs Task Force would be set up within the region this year. 
