drugs
{  
    March 21 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/mandatory-drugs-sentences-are-not-passed-by-judges-26218810.html }
JIM CUSACK THE 10-year sentence for possession of drugs worth more than £10,000 (around ?13,000) which was the main plank of Fianna Fail's and then Justice Minister John O'Donoghue's "get tough on drugs and crime" policy of the late Nineties has been a disaster. Independent TD Tony Gregory has been told that judges won't impose the mandatory sentences because "they don't like being told what to do". Of 279 cases concerning the possession of drugs with a value of over ?13,000, only 12 have merited sentences of 10 years or over. In many of the cases where sentences lower than 10 years have been imposed, the value of the drugs involved in the case has run into millions of euros. The judges' aversion to imposing mandatory sentences was highlighted again last week with the case of John Paul Duff, a career drug dealer from Hardwicke Flats in Dublin who was sentenced to seven years for possession of a cache of ecstasy and cocaine in 1999, then valued at £150,000. Duff was bailed at the time for £20,000 and simply absconded, before being arrested last year and returned to custody. He has a string of convictions and was one of the most notorious heroin dealers in the north inner city during the Eighties and Nineties. In the mid-Nineties, he was forced to leave Hardwicke Street after large protests by local people, many of whose family and friends had died in the heroin epidemic in the area. In the late Nineties, Duff was still dealing in heroin and ecstasy but was one of the first north inner city dealers to branch out into cocaine, now the most profitable drug in Dublin. Between absconding on bail and being arrested, Duff is believed to have made a small fortune from cocaine. As Independent TD Tony Gregory pointed out last week, the mandatoryminimum sentence introduced by John O'Donoghue left a huge loophole for judges to ignore the Government's recommendation: "I was talking to legal people within a year of this legislation, as I was amazed that they were not implementing it. They were finding any excuse at all to circumvent it. When I asked, I was told the judges just don't like being told what to do." Gregory is now proposing, as he did at the time of the introduction of the supposed mandatory drugs sentences, that it should not be a blanket clause covering all drugs from cannabis to heroin. He pointed out that under the law introduced by John O'Donoghue, someone caught with £10,000 worth of cannabis could face 10 years jail, but someone caught with £9,000 worth of heroin might not. However, there is another side to the mandatory sentence under the 1998 Criminal Justice Act. Gardai privately say the threat of the mandatory 10-year sentence has been one of the best tools in its intelligence war against drugs. According to senior Garda sources, this mandatory sentence threat has an amazing effect on even the most hardened drug dealers when they are arrested and in Garda custody. One said that the amount of intelligence gathered from dealers has been at the centre of much of the gardai's most important anti-drug-trafficking work. Last year alone, gardai seized drugs worth an estimated ?100m and broke up some of the most important drug networks. Intelligence gathered in Ireland has helped gardai, in co-operation with British, Dutch and Spanish police, uncover major drugs supply networks. In one operation alone at the start of last year Dutch police, acting on intelligence from the gardai, seized a container with drugs valued at ?20m near the French border. Two major gangs who dominated the cocaine and heroin market in Dublin were broken up last year. The "Westies", based in Blanchardstown and Finglas, dominated the city's heroin supply, and when they were broken up last summer the supply of the drug virtually dried up, causing the street price to double overnight. Another major gang, originally from the north inner city but more recently based in the northern outer suburbs, also suffered major blows from the gardai, losing drugs with street values running into tens of millions of euros. However, as gardai point out, the potential profits from drugs and the unrelenting demand from the city's addicts and recreational users mean that there will always be a ready supply of replacements once gangs are broken up. 
