drugs
{ Carol Hunt 
    September 03 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/miracle-drug-was-meant-to-cure-my-depression-but-it-drove-me-suicidal-26212165.html }
THE whole country seems to be pissed off. Last week, in an interview with this newspaper, playwright Mannix Flynn complained that we have "traded our souls for the Sex and the City lifestyle" - resulting in Irish people becoming "deeply insecure, fullof fear, suffering fromcompulsive personalitydisorders." Mannix has definitely got a point. Some 300,000 Irish people are currently suffering from depression. There are more than 30,000 medical card holders on anti-depressant drugs. God knows how many of the rest of us are struggling along on booze and over-the-counter pills. We are supposed to be more successful and prosperous than we have ever been - and yet mental illness seems to be going through the roof. So why are we so unhappy? Twenty years ago we were all poor together - to be unemployed or on a low wage was not the stigma it is today. In the world of the Celtic Tiger, anyone on less than ?80,000 a year is judged to be a loser. The opportunities are out there - if you don't avail of them you're just not trying hard enough. So you push yourself to the limit to try to achieve what we are told is the 'perfect and achievable life' and if we don't get it, we become angry and disillusioned and depressed. And if we do get the 'perfect life', we drive ourselves insane trying to hold onto it. Enter the drug companies. When we eventually manage to cart ourselves off to the GP, we are horrified if they dare suggest that maybe we should take some time out, not be so hard on ourselves, slow down a bit. Slow down? Don't they know we have a mortgage to pay, car loans, creche fees, oh and don't forget all that stealth taxation? It's now increasingly difficult for doctors to differentiate between people who have a clinical depression which urgently needs medical attention and those whose problem is that they need to change their lifestyle. So they prescribe what the drug companies assure them are extremely safe and non-addictive medicines which will work a treat and they hope for the best. Recently the drug Seroxat has come up for major criticism. Last year, an investigation on the BBC show Panorama asserted that the drug increased the risk of suicide among users and that it was also extremely addictive. Of course the makers denied all these claims. Recent reports have now claimed that GlaxoSmithKline, the makers of Seroxat, were fully aware of these effects but had suppressed evidence from clinical trials. Well hallelujah, someone get me a tort lawyer with an eye for vengeance! You see, the drug Seroxat is a bit of a bete noir with me. Mention it in my company and I am liable to explode into a tirade against immoral drug manufacturers. Seroxat is one of the SSRI (selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor) drugs that were launched onto the market 10 years ago. It was hailed as a new wonder drug for people who suffered from depression, panic attacks, eating disorders, anxiety problems, obsessive-compulsive disorder, irritable bowl syndrome, even premature ejaculation. Seemingly totally safe and non-addictive, the drug soon became the Irish GP's drug of choice when dealing with many of the above problems - some of which are caused by clinical depression and some by lifestyle. I was first prescribed Seroxat when I mentioned to my GP that I had been experiencing panicky feelings and having difficulty staying asleep - very odd for a girl who can usually sleep around the clock. I was working as an actress at the time and was involved in a very harrowing play about the Magdalen laundries. I thought that both the stress of touring and the subject matter were obviously getting to me. The doctor decided to prescribe this new drug called Seroxat. He was very enthusiastic about it and insisted that it was not addictive in any way - nothing like Valium or any other sedative - and perfect for what ailed me. A few weeks later I began to feel distinctly odd. I became very withdrawn and had terrible problems just holding a simple conversation with anyone. All I wanted to do was sleep. I stopped taking the Seroxat - I thought as it wasn't addictive there wouldn't be any problem - and within two days was feeling feverish and nauseous. I had what I could only describe as electric shocks going through my brain. I was incapable of moving properly or even of speaking coherently. My boyfriend put in an SOS call to the doctor. He arrived and insisted that my problems were nothing to do with the withdrawal from the Seroxat, which the manufacturers had assured him was non-addictive. Unfortunately he couldn't actually tell me what was wrong, but he did give the impression that he thought I was being just a tad dramatic. And he insisted that I immediately go straight back on the Seroxat - I obviously needed it. A few hours after taking the drug again the cold turkey feeling subsided and I returned to feeling like I lived two streets away from myself. A couple of weeks later I returned to the GP and complained again. He said I probably wasn't taking enough of the drug and doubled my dose. And that's when I began to feel seriously suicidal. I was in my mid-20s. I was working in a job I loved. Yes, it was stressful, but I had the support of a loving boyfriend and family. And yet I found myself in a situation where I believed that suicide was not only a desirable choice for me, but also a totally rational one. I am one of the lucky ones. I survived Seroxat. Many others have not. I eventually ignored everything the medical profession told me and weaned myself off it as if it were heroin. Of course, I've felt completely crap from time to time since - like everybody - but at least now I'm more aware of how my brain works and potential pitfalls. Knowledge is everything. But depression can be a serious illness; without proper treatment it can prove fatal, and in many cases anti-depressants are life-savers for sufferers. Yet Seroxat has proved to be a miracle drug for many people who have suffered from severe clinical depression. A friend of mine was so ill that she believed nothing could cure her - two weeks after being prescribed Seroxat she began to improve remarkably. Seven months on she has had no ill-effects from the drug whatsoever. In her case it did just what it said on the label. Many other brands of SSRIs have proved themselves to be just as effective as Seroxat - but without the accompanying horror stories. So why keep Seroxat on the market if there are other choices? At present the Irish Medicines Board is supporting the GlaxoSmithKline stance - that the benefits of the drug outweigh the risks. Obviously we Irish need as many anti-depressants as we can get our hands on. They seem to be what's keeping the Celtic Tiger going. The problem we face is trying to distinguish between the illnesses caused by clinical depression and the illnesses that are a direct result of our frenzied and increasingly divided lifestyle. And if we do find out what the underlying cause of our misery is, will we change our lifestyle or just keep taking the drugs anyway and get on with it? 
