drugs
{  
    August 20 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/shock-study-shows-70pc-of-erratic-drivers-are-on-drugs-26370741.html }
SEVEN out of 10 erratic motorists tested by gardai are under the influence of some kind of drug. Most have not drunk any alcohol but instead smoked cannabis, or taken anti-depressant tablets prescribed by their GPs. SEVEN out of 10 erratic motorists tested by gardai are under the influence of some kind of drug. Most have not drunk any alcohol but instead smoked cannabis, or taken anti-depressant tablets prescribed by their GPs. Six out of 10 drivers are high on cannabis, mainly young males, a major official State investigation reveals. And many middle-aged males are driving while on on legally prescribed anti-depressants which impair their driving. The shocking new report by the State's Medical Bureau of Road Safety lifts the lid on the alarming extent of drug driving in Ireland. "The results of this study demonstrate that there is a significant driving under the influence of drugs problem in Ireland," the report concludes. The Road Safety Authority (RSA), which has just received the report, is drawing up a major new strategy in an attempt to combat the growing drugs driving scourge, the 
Irish Independent has also exclusively learned. Although it is a criminal offence to drive under the influence of drugs, gardai concentrate on drink driving. There has been sustained criticism that gardai rarely bring prosecutions even where drugs show up in tests. However, gardai have pointed out that the difficulties in bringing a prosecution for drug driving because solicitors can claim drugs remain in their client's system for a prolonged period. Few of the drug driving cases which showed up in the survey were brought to court because of this. Of those with no alcohol, a total of 68pc tested positive for one or more drug, mainly cannabis and legally prescribed anti-depressants, the investigation reveals. Both drugs impair driving the same way alcohol does and can cause death crashes. Drug-driving is now being blamed for many road deaths that take place in this country. Some 2,000 blood and urine samples supplied by gardai who stopped erratic drivers were examined by the Medical Bureau of Road Safety at the Dept of Forensic Medicine in UCD. The bureau carries out the drink driving tests for gardai. A total of 1,000 drivers were above the alcohol limit, and 1,000 below the limit or with zero alcohol. It found: * A third of those driving under the alcohol limit (ie either no alcohol or under the legal limit of 80mg) had taken one or more drugs, mainly cannabis. * In Dublin, 60pc of drivers with no alcohol had taken drugs. * More than one in six of those over the limit had also taken drugs. * A total of 331 out of 1,000 drivers under the legal alcohol limit had taken drugs. One in six drivers over the alcohol limit were also on drugs when stopped by gardai, the report shows. Just as worrying is the fact that 54.4pc of drivers under the alcohol limit had taken two or more drugs in a lethal driving cocktail, officially called "poly-drug driving". And 68pc of drivers with zero alcohol had drugs in their system. The report says the serious impairing effects of drugs on drivers "is evident from the number of drivers apprehended while under the alcohol limit or with no alcohol present at all". Many tested drivers had a combination of high alcohol levels together with drugs in their systems. Noel Brett, RSA chief executive, who has just received the report, described its findings as very worrying and revealed that the authority is to spearhead a major drugs driving strategy in the coming months. The roads chief also voiced concern about the advice given by GPs and pharmacists about driving while on prescribed drugs. The report says that where a roadside breath test on a clearly impaired driver proves negative for alcohol, gardai should insist on a blood or alcohol test to check for drugs. It recommends the introduction of education and awareness drugs driving programmes, targeting drivers, gardai, legislators, doctors and pharmacists. "The focus to date has centred on illegal drugs and very little attention has been given to prescribed drugs," it says. The vast majority of drug drivers - more than 90pc - were male. Drug driving was highest in Cork (30.4pc) followed by Dublin (27pc) for all drivers above and under alcohol limit. Unfortunately a valid, reliable and convenient roadside testing device for drugs has still not been found. 
