drugs
{  
    March 15 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/teen-drink-drug-abuse-shock-27357454.html }
A REPORT into drug and alcohol abuse in North Kerry has revealed shocking levels of binge drinking, drug abuse and unprotected sex among young people in the region.According to the North Kerry Substance Use and Misuse Report hard drugs are now freely available to teens on the streets of Tralee and some youngsters, aged as young as 14 years, are experimenting with A REPORT into drug and alcohol abuse in North Kerry has revealed shocking levels of binge drinking, drug abuse and unprotected sex among young people in the region. According to the ‘North Kerry Substance Use and Misuse Report’ hard drugs are now freely available to teens on the streets of Tralee and some youngsters, aged as young as 14 years, are experimenting with drugs. The report also concludes that the culture of binge drinking and drug abuse has led to a culture of casual violence and has created a climate of fear on the streets of Listowel and Tralee. The report, compiled by researcher Peadar King on behalf of North Kerry Together and Partnership Tralee, was launched by Minister John O’Donoghue in Tralee last week. The study, which involved extensive interviews with young people across North Kerry reveals that the use of cannabis, ecstasy and cocaine has rocketed in recent years and most young people now have easy access to these drugs in every village and town in North Kerry and even in their schoolyards. The report also calls on the organisers of festivals like The Rose of Tralee, Puck Fair and the Summerfest in Killarney to put systems in place to ensure the levels of drinking and associated violence are reduced and that the festivals are not “lost in a fog of drunkenness and aggression.” Interviews carried out with school students and other young people in Listowel and Tralee reveal a shocking level of drug and alcohol misuse and a worrying lack of knowledge about safe sex practices. A Listowel teenager, identified only as Heather, told researchers she would often spend ?100 a week on cigarettes and alcohol. “On a typical Saturday I’d spend about ?60 on drink. All told I spend over ?100 a week on drink and fags, I get the money from daddy,” she said. In another interview the young subject reveals he began using cocaine with his father when he was in his early teens. ‘I’ve done all kinds of drugs. You name it. My father got me into cocaine. I’d have done a lot of drugs with him. Hash keeps me going.’ Another teen, Evan (16) who was 12 when he started taking drugs said he’d been using hard drugs for over a year. “Last year I took E during lunch break at school. I thought it was the best possible buzz. Coke is deadly stuff. It chills you out. Two of us took it in the public toilets. I thought it was just dacent,” he said. Researcher Peadar King concludes that drug taking and drinking has now become a normal practice among young people right across North Kerry. “Illicit drug consumption has gained a normalcy in this area,” he writes “Cannabis, cocaine and ecstasy consumption are all on the increase. All the participants reported that there is no problem accessing illicit drugs in any part of North Kerry.” “Time and time again young people said they felt unsafe walking around Tralee and Listowel, particularly at night-time. The safety issue is seen as directly linked with the consumption of alcohol and drugs,” the report states. 
