drugs
{ Eilish O'Regan 
    November 17 2009 04:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/generic-drugs-could-ease-health-bill-ills-26582846.html }
IT IS generally reckoned that around 10pc of all drugs prescribed to patients are wasted, ending up in a drawer or eventually being dumped. Doctors are frequently accused of being too quick to reach for the prescription pad, while patients can be guilty of accidentally or intentionally not taking the drugs. Charging medical card holders 50c per prescription item is one way of trying to reduce unnecessary prescribing and many will be able to absorb it -- but it is not without its dangers. How do you differentiate between those who use a doctor visit to stock up on antibiotics, painkillers and indigestion tablets from those who are coping with a variety of conditions, all of which need medication? Medical card holders have been used to getting their drugs for free and the idea of a charge, however small, could lead to some neglecting to fill a prescription or rationing their medicines. Older people who have several illnesses could end up paying €5 a month, which will put a strain on their limited income. When people fail to take their medicines they are more likely to end up in hospital, so at least some of the Government's expected €30m income from the charge may end up as a false saving. The Department of Health argues that free drugs may already be putting patients at risk -- because one in six people who get a prescription under the medical card scheme are getting 10 items or more. The proposed move, floated at a time when the health service is facing into cuts of over €1bn, is clearly motivated to help stem the spiralling cost of medicines as the numbers of people qualifying for medical cards continues to soar. At the end of 2007 there were 1.2 million medical card holders, but this has now grown to 1.4 million. In 2007 schemes for medical card and private patients cost €1.74bn, which was a five-fold increase over the previous decade. The reality is that too little effort has been made to deal with the drivers pushing up the drugs bill that are out of the patient's control. One of the main problems in Ireland is that too few generic drugs are being prescribed by doctors. Once a drug comes off patent, pharmaceutical companies can make a generic version, which is cheaper and just as potent as the original. But by 2007 just 19pc of prescription items here were for generic drugs. The position had actually deteriorated since 1997, when the share was 22pc. This compares to the UK, where generics account for 50pc of drugs. Generic drugs accounted for just 8pc of the total spend on medicines in the medical card scheme in 2007. If GPs dispensed more generics there could be a saving of €10m next year. However, a scheme that had been in place to incentivise them to reduce their drugs bills has now lapsed, and many do not have the resources, prescription software systems and prescription data analysis to allow them to make the best choices. Another problem is that when patients leave hospital, where 15pc of all prescribing takes place, they can be on high-cost prescriptions, which are then carried over when they revert back to GP care. The Irish Medical Organisation has pointed to the need for more patient reviews to assess the medicines they are on and find out if they really need them and whether brands can be substituted. The health service is also losing out because it is paying inflated prices for prescription drugs. Manufacturers are being paid up to 18 times more for some generic drugs in Ireland than for the same products in the UK. Some estimates say that up to €98m a year could be saved on the medical card scheme alone if UK generic prices for some of the most popular medicines were being paid here. The HSE, however, is locked into an agreement with pharmaceutical companies, which will not expire until September of next year. The renegotiation of this agreement is expected to see the HSE and Department of Health demand a better deal for the taxpayer in lowering the cost of the drugs bill. Drug companies argue that the small size of the market here keeps prices higher. It means that several generic drugs are only slightly cheaper than their branded counterparts. Were the prices reduced to UK levels, between €89m and €98m could be saved on the medical card scheme each year, according to estimates. But pharmaceutical companies maintain that the small size of the Irish generic drugs market make the economies of scale achieved in the UK more difficult here. Given the scale of drivers behind our drugs bills it might be fairer to tackle the other issues first, before going for the easier option of imposing the charge on patients. Irish Independent 
