drugs
{ Katherine Donnelly 
    April 04 2007 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/one-in-five-at-12-know-where-to-get-drugs-26263999.html }
ONE in three 12-year-olds have been offered drugs and one in five know where to get their hands on them. Worrying findings of a new Health Service Executive (HSE)-funded survey on drug, alcohol and tobacco use among 12-19 year olds, show half have been offered drugs, while one in four have taken drugs that were not prescribed for them. The results, which show how the drugs culture is encroaching on the lives of primary age children, is causing particular concern among parents and teachers. Yesterday, Education Minister Mary Hanafin launched a new drugs awareness campaign to help parents and teachers to recognise, manage and discuss drug-related issues facing eight to 14- year-olds. It includes a 30-minute DVD, 'Empower Og' - the first of its kind in Europe - being distributed to primary schools and libraries, and an interactive card game for use in the classroom. The minister said it would build on the various programmes and initiatives in place in all of our schools to counteract substance misuse. HSE substance misuse counsellor Tom Needham said drug misuse could be a confusing and daunting subject for many parents, and they hoped the DVD would provide clarity on the topic. Drug Treatment Centre Board consultant psychiatrist Dr Bobby Smyth said the project also addressed the two substances most commonly abused by teenagers - alcohol and tobacco. The goods news from the survey was that none of the 12-year-olds had taken drugs that were not prescribed for them. Of those offered drugs, 33pc said the approach was from a stranger, 33pc said it was a friend of a friend, 17pc said it was a close friend and 17pc said they vaguely knew the person. The research among 600 12-19 years was carried out in south Tipperary and the project is supported by the pharmaceutical firm, Schering Plough. The main findings from the entire 12-19-year-old group were: * 64pc had smoked at least once, with 24pc continuing to smoke; * 81pc had tried alcohol with 66pc continuing to drink alcohol; * 49pc had been offered drugs, 23pc had taken drugs that had not been prescribed to them, and 8pc continued to take drugs. * 50pc knew where to get drugs if needed and 40pc of those who had been offered drugs said the approach was by a close friend. * Of those who had taken drugs, 20pc had taken cannabis, 10pc prescribed drugs, and almost 10pc had taken ecstasy. 
