drugs
{ DAVID HANDS 
    May 25 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/rugby-star-says-drugs-talk-was-naive-lies-26151294.html }
ENGLAND'S former Rugby Union captain Lawrence Dallaglio yesterday sought to salvage his career by admitting he boasted to undercover reporters about his involvement with drugs, but insisted these were ``foolish and naive'' lies. Dallaglio admitted that he experimented with drugs while a teenager. But the 26-year-old maintained he had long been ``passionately'' opposed to drug use, had not used drugs during his sporting career and had never been a dealer. The Wasps flanker, who stepped down as England captain on Monday, faces a Rugby Football Union investigation into allegations that he admitted dealing in illegal drugs and using cocaine and Ecstasy during a British Lions tour of South Africa in 1997. Dallaglio, who also pulled out of England's World Cup warm-up tour of Australia, said that in his apparently damning conversation with News of the World reporters, he was just trying to impress people posing as business executives, offering him a money-spinning endorsement deal. At a packed media conference at the RFU headquarters in Twickenham, south west London, Dallaglio maintained his innocence and pleaded for the opportunity to rebuild his career. ``I strongly deny the allegations that I have taken drugs throughout my playing career,'' declared Dallaglio. He acknowledged dabbling with drugs earlier in life, but insisted that was in the past. ``I strongly deny the allegations that I have ever dealt drugs and as I have openly admitted to you here today, I did experiment with drugs when I was a young man. ``For that, I'm not proud, for that I deeply regret, I recognise that was wrong and since then I have been completely anti-drugs,'' said Dallaglio. He acknowledged that he probably did make the statements attributed to him by the newspaper. However, he went on: ``But what I would like to add is that I was naive and foolish and that I was following a line of questioning that was instigated by the reporters and that is all I can say.'' Andrew Morris, managing director of Dallaglio's management company In Touch Management, said the reporters posed as executives associated with the toiletries manufacturer Gillette, and purported to be interested in investing substantial sums in an inner city rugby programme for which Dallaglio would act as figurehead. In addition, he was to have endorsed a new product range which, over two years, would have been worth £500,000 to him. Dallaglio, who said he had passed numerous random drug tests, one as recently as Monday, said the reporters had initiated the talk of drugs. ``I played along with that game, totally stupidly and foolishly, and created stories which simply weren't true in an attempt to fit in with them and obviously to try to impress them in some way,'' he said. Dallaglio stressed that he was keen to promote the anti-drugs message. ``All I can say to you is that I have been anti-drugs for many, many years. I detest drugs, they serve no purpose in anyone's life,'' he said. England coach Clive Woodward, a close friend of Dallaglio, said he had been ``naive, stupid and a right prat'', but added that he hoped he could be in England's World Cup team in October. Of Dallaglio's meeting with the journalists, Woodward said: ``He started bragging and he will live to regret it. He has dropped everybody right in it, including himself, but you don't ruin a guy's life for being stupid.'' With the England team departing on their Australian tour today, Woodward did not expect further revelations, despite claims that Dallaglio told the newspaper two other internationals took drugs during the South Africa tour. At the media conference, Dallaglio insisted that no drugs had been used on that tour. There was backing for Dallaglio's from his club side, Wasps, which is offering him ``100pc support''. (The Times, London) Player on road rage charge BRITISH rugby star Jeremy Guscott was today sent for trial over an alleged road-rage incident in the UK. Magistrates at Bath committed the 33-year-old England international to stand trial at Bristol Crown Court and ordered him to appear on July 9.  Television presenter and male model Guscott is accused of assaulting Kenneth Jones of Oldfield Park, Bath, causing him grievous bodily harm in an incident in Broad Street, Bath, on April 29. 
