drugs
{  
    January 15 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/fear-and-loathing-in-ballyfermot-26126340.html }
The young thug responsible for the two bodies in the canal this week sees himself as the next General. In reality he is just one of several small time drug dealers in the Ballyfermot area. Only his viciousness makes him different. John Meagher and Martha Kearns report Unnerving tension hangs like a thick blanket over Ballyfermot. Gardai stand at street corners in pairs or threes, their two-way radios crackling. Gangs of teenagers smoke defiantly in the drizzling rain, eyeing up strangers with distrustful eyes. Women, many of them pushing buggies, chat conspiratorially. Everyone seems to be talking about the latest blow to morale in the west Dublin suburb. When the corpses of Patrick Murray and Darren Carey were dragged from the icy waters of the Grand Canal this week, the festering cancer of the west Dublin drug epidemic resurfaced. Shot in the head and dumped in a watery grave - the Ballyfermot youths paid the ultimate price for their £30,000 drug debt. But this gangland atrocity is only the latest, vicious reminder of the stranglehold Dublin's ruthless drug barons have on communities. Already dozens of people have fled the area for fear of retribution from a new generation of underworld gangs who terrorise, maim and kill their victims with no remorse. It is the young leader of Ballyfermot's most notorious drug gang who is the chief suspect for the double murders. Known to associates as the ``Guinea Pig'' the 25-year-old is described by Garda sources as one of the most vicious criminals they have encountered. ``He is extremely violent and evil, evil, evil. He has no conscience and is one of the worst criminals we have come up against,'' a senior Garda told Weekend Review. ``He is trying to emulate the General, but Martin Cahill was never as vicious as this guy.'' Another Garda source says he deliberately defecated over himself while in custody, smearing excrement over his face and clothes. The Gardai were forced to interview him out of doors for fear of contamination. His six-member gang has been smuggling drugs from Amsterdam and England for the past five to six years, supplying a network of drug dealers. The Guinea Pig - who has gone into hiding since the murders is also a suspect in at least five previous shooting incidents and a major narcotics haul in Maynooth. And he is linked to the abduction and interrogation of a man, who died before the Ballyfermot suspect could stand trial on charges linked to the incident. Crime runs in the family his father is known to the Gardai and his uncle is a former bank robber and associate of Martin Cahill. Gardai say the Guinea Pig has no connections with paramilitaries, but is ruthlessly violent and seeking to assert himself as a significant criminal figure in the west of the city. He is well known in Ballyfermot and is feared by many, even by those who have never seen him, such is his reputation. The Guinea Pig is described as stocky and well-built and always wears a tight haircut. He does not dabble in drugs and has kept a low profile in the west Dublin suburb over the past few months. The evolution of a Godfather-type figure is exactly what the Ballyfermot community fear most. Gerry Royal from the Ballyfermot Drugs Task Force says there is a high degree of what he terms ``narco-terrorism'' or drug-related violence in the area. Although locals know who the pushers are they are afraid to speak out. ``Narco-terrorism has increased to such an extent that people are so scared they will be targeted, they are meeting Gardai a mile or two outside Ballyfermot so they won't be seen. ``People are in a state of shock and depression wondering where it's all going to end,'' he says. Such drug related violence was virtually unheard of when the task force was set up three years ago. But over the past 18 months it has become commonplace for those in debt to drug dealers to receive punishment beatings. Drug gangs have been behind several killings over the past year and the deaths of Murray and Carey bring to 11 the number of gangland murders in the last 13 months. And just three weeks ago Joseph Vickers was beaten to death near his caravan at Greystones, Co Wicklow over a modest debt. The bodies of the two latest victims were recovered from the canal near Kearneystown Bridge, on the Dublin/Kildare border. They had been acting as heroin couriers for the gang Patrick Murray (19) was detained with half a kilo of heroin by Customs officers at Dublin Airport last month. It is typical of a gangland killing as Dublin criminals have been known to dispose of bodies in the west of the city before. Detectives are still searching for the remains of one criminal, Jock Corbally, who disappeared in 1996 and is believed to be buried in a secret grave in the Baldonnel area. And it is also believed that another west Dublin drugs gang, based in the Gallanstown area, might have murdered and secretly buried 17-year-old Patrick Lawlor who disappeared from his home in January last year. His family say they now believe he was abducted and murdered over a drugs debt of only a few thousand pounds. Dozens of others, mainly young men, have fled Ballyfermot for England because of drug debts as they fear they may be beaten up or be forced to pay with their lives. One such drug-addict left for England when he could not pay back a debt and his retired father described as ``an honest hard-working man'' had his home ransacked to pay for his son's arrears. Another mother who lost her two sons to drugs tells of the time when her eldest son finally ``cleaned-up his act,'' pushers shoved drugs through his letter box until he got hooked again and died from an overdose. Garda presence in Ballyfermot has visibly increased since the shootings, and while welcome, locals fear it will dissipate when it is no longer front-page news. ``People have to be butchered before there is any reaction from the Gardai, says Gerry Royal. ``We need a stronger Garda presence on a consistent basis and it needs to be pro-active and not just reactive policing. We are consistently asking for this,'' he says. Resident groups from upper, lower and middle Ballyfermot are meeting this weekend to decide on a date to stage a march on the Dail. ``This is not just a Ballyfermot problem and that is why we are marching in the city centre. It will be a peaceful protest but we will be very vociferous,'' he says. ``It doesn't help with the release of films like The General which glamourises these idiots. It incenses me when I think about it that this is a role model for our children. These films have a lot to answer for.'' Local independent councillor, Vincent Jackson, believes the murders mark a new low not only for Ballyfermot but for society in general: ``I have never heard people in the area so downbeat. ``It is all everyone is talking about. They are so shocked and there is a lot of fear around. The community doesn't want the type of people who would carry out these crimes. `This is a new low in the area and people want him caught especially because we don't not want the word to get out that this behaviour is acceptable, that would be the worst injustice of all. ``Why should we allow these people to dictate to us the pace of life and the shape of our society in the future? If this is what our society is going to be like, people are just going to opt out.'' But the real terror in the community is being caused by the fear that no one will be caught for the crimes. Of last year's nine gangland murders, five remain unsolved. Vincent Jackson sums up the mood of a community at the end of its tether: ``People are just sick and tired and I believe they will pull together this time to ensure the killer is caught.  ``We hope to God he will be caught no matter what crawls out of the woodwork as a result.'' 
