drugs
{ John Costello 
    July 22 2011 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/the-pills-that-make-you-smarter-26754065.html }
We all have our daily drug of choice. For many it's caffeine, for others it's nicotine, while some will crack open a can of Red Bull when they need that extra boost. But imagine you could get your mitts on a drug that not only keeps you focused, but makes you smarter. Such a cognitive enhancer, capable of cranking up concentration, eliminating fatigue and turbo-charging memory was central to the plot of the recent Hollywood blockbuster Limitless. After one dose of an experimental drug an unaccomplished writer completes his novel in a matter of days, learns to play the piano, becomes fluent in Italian and kicks ass in a street fight using Bruce Lee moves remembered from a movie. While this flick may be stuff of Hollywood fiction, the availability of such brain-boosting 'smart drugs' is not. These new cognitive-enhancing drugs, originally designed to treat debilitating diseases such as Alzheimer's, attention-deficit disorder (ADHD) and schizophrenia, are now being used illicitly to sharpen people's powers of concentration and memory. Indeed, the underworld of 'neuroenhancing' drugs is thriving. In 2009, a survey of 1,000 students at Cambridge University found 10% were taking prescription drugs to improve their powers of concentration. This month experts in the US say they believe at least one-in-10 of the country's entire university population abuses Adderall, a prescription drug used to treat ADHD. "There is very little data on this in Ireland but if you look to figures internationally the use of these types of 'smart drugs' is on the rise," says Dr Andrew Harkin Senior Lecturer in Pharmacology Trinity College Dublin. But do so-called smart drugs work? "Absolutely," says Dr Stanislava Antonijevic-Elliott, a psychologist with the National University of Ireland, Galway. "They increase the openings allowing more blood to flow into the front-lobe region of the brain that controls our executive functions. In performance and cognitive tasks they give better and sustained attention. They reduce impulsive reactions in the sense of making errors because you don't take the time to think things through." Such an impressive cognitive turbo charge has seen the US military take interest after a study found that Provigil, a stimulant prescribed for the sleep disorder narcolepsy, boosted the performance of helicopter pilots flying on simulators who had been deprived of sleep. In the UK the drug is being investigated to aid the concentration of surgeons when performing lengthy, complex operations. However, while taking such drugs will initially boost your grey matter, the brain simply sags back to its former state after days of continuous use. While these drugs are considered safe when prescribed and monitored by a doctor, those that illicitly use them to improve their powers of concentration by self-medicating can become addicted. "If you leave it to people to self-medicate problems will arise," says Dr Antonijevic-Elliott. The long-term implications of taking smart drugs have not been studied, principally because exact knowledge of who is using them as 'neuroenhancers' is relatively unknown as users avoid the need for prescriptions by purchasing online. "People can get their hands on almost anything on the internet," says Tim Bingham a drugs education worker. "But to be honest I wouldn't touch them with a barge pole. The World Health Organisation recently came out with a report that said over 60% of the medications sold online are fake." With more new powerful drugs that boost memory and concentration becoming available, super-smart drugs one day may be available over the counter. But don't hold your breath just yet . "While research in this area is ongoing, pharmaceutical companies will not be looking to cater for those in the workforce or students when it comes to creating these so-called smart drugs," says Dr Harkin. Irish Independent 
