drugs
{  
    July 26 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/odowd-call-to-legalise-27115998.html }
Droghedas new Dáil deputy Fergus ODowd is  sticking by the controversial statement he made during the week whereby he urged that serious consideration be given to legalising cannabis for medical use.Deputy ODowds viewpoint stems from the fact that Drogheda’s new Dáil deputy Fergus O’Dowd is sticking by the controversial statement he made during the week whereby he urged that serious consideration be given to legalising cannabis for medical use. Deputy O’Dowd’s viewpoint stems from the fact that trials conducted over the last number of years in the UK have produced some very encouraging results regarding the use of cannabis in the relief of severe pain, muscle spasm and bladder problems associated with illnesses such as Multiple Sclerosis. ‘There are fundamental differences between recreational drugs and drugs that can be used for serious medical benefit. We need to separate the use of cannabis as a recreational drug from its potential to relieve suffering from illness and suffering,’ he stated. However, he emphasised that cannabis as a recreational drug should remain illegal. He pointed out that those in favour of legalising cannabis for recreational use concentrate on the fact that there are relatively few deaths as a direct result of cannabis use. However, he maintains that while its effects are not as immediate, they are still damaging in the long term. ‘Many users of cannabis mix their drugs and take ecstasy, alcohol and other drugs that as a combination can be lethal and may cause serious behavioral effects. Smokers of cannabis put themselves in danger from the obvious risks of tobacco intake. We are already painfully aware that the majority of cancers in Ireland are caused by smoking. Yet the pro-cannabis lobby conveniently overlooks this issue when advocating its case. Deputy O’Dowd, the Fine Gael Front Bench Spokesperson on Community, Rural and Gaeltacht Affairs, said that cannabis is not always, but can be a ‘gateway drug’ in that it leads to harder drugs like heroin and cocaine. ‘Many young people who smoke cannabis stop using the drug after their 20’s when their social situations change. For others however, it does lead onto taking harder drugs which do destroy lives – their own and those of their families and their communities. To argue over whether it is a gateway drug in some ways misses the point that young people have the right to protection from drug abuse. By legalising cannabis we are giving society’s approval to what is not for the common good.’ Commenting on the overall drugs problem facing the country Deputy O’Dowd said that the major drug treatment centres in Dublin are highlighting the fact that crack cocaine has become available on our streets and the latest news is that Ireland has the highest level of ecstasy users in the 15-16 year age group among the 12 member states that make up the Euro Zone. ‘One in every eight Irish people seeking treatment for problems relating to the drug ecstasy are still at school. The shocking statistics have been exposed in government research which shows that in 1999, 11% of those seeking treatment were in secondary or primary school. A report by the health boards’ drug misuse division says the average age for starting to take Es is 17 – and that 25,000 pills are popped in Ireland every week. ‘In Britain, cannabis has been decriminalised because it became impossible to police the high levels of usage. Just because this happened across the water does not make it the best solution for our small nation. The decision to legalise a drug should be made because it is in the best interests of all the citizens of a country.’ ‘Young people are most at risk in this new culture of drugs abuse. Teenagers who once relied on sports and other activities to get a ‘natural high’ are now turning to ecstasy and cannabis. It is in areas like sports and alternative recreational facilities that resources need to be put so that drugs are the last thing young people will turn to for kicks. If legalising cannabis is the best we can offer future generations, then we will have failed morally and as legislators.’ 
