drugs
{ Bruno Waterfield  Brussels 
    May 29 2013 03:07 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/europe/dozens-of-new-legal-high-drugs-sold-on-net-warns-eu-29304118.html }
Dozens of new synthetic drugs, often marketed as "legal highs" on the internet, emerged last year, replacing traditional, plant-based drugs in Europe, according to official figures. The European Union's Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction has highlighted the new trend at a time when the use of cannabis, cocaine and heroin, drugs based on plants grown abroad and smuggled into Europe, is slowing. "The drug situation may now be in a state of flux, with 'new' problems emerging that challenge current policy and practice models: new synthetic drugs and patterns of use are appearing, both on the illicit drug market and in the context of non-controlled substances," the centre said in its annual report. "Today's drug market appears to be less structured around plant-based substances shipped over long distances to consumer markets in Europe." The centre reported that there were now more than 280 new drugs in circulation, with 73 appearing in the past year alone. Many of them were made from chemicals designed to mimic the effects of cannabis. British figures showed that the number dying from banned "legal highs" had quadrupled in the past five years. Drugs such as mephedrone or "meow meow" had displaced traditional illegal drugs to become bestsellers, made in illegal laboratories and controlled by gangs operating across the world. According to the EU report, amphetamine or speed-type stimulants were the main synthetic drugs trafficked to Britain, "with countries of origin being China and India for the majority of these substances". Rob Wainwright, the director of Europol, the EU police intelligence agency, said: "The new drugs phenomenon is now recognised to be a global issue and a globalised market, which makes it particularly difficult to control. "Organised crime is involved in the production of new drugs, a rapidly developing and expanding market with low risks and high profits." The growing use of hybrid and complex synthetic "highs" made in illegal labs from mixtures of chemicals, with unknown side-effects, posed a new threat to the health of young people using the new drugs, usually in nightclubs. IMPLICATIONS "A recent development is an increasing proportion of substances reported that are from less known and more obscure chemical groups," said the EU report. "Many of the products on sale contain mixtures of substances, and the lack of pharmacological and toxicological data means it is hard to speculate on long-term health implications of use." Up to a quarter of Europe's adult population, 85 million people, have used an illegal drug at some point, with most, 77 million, using cannabis. The report warned that rising youth unemployment driven by the eurozone crisis and cuts to public health budgets could reverse the declines in new heroin use and cocaine consumption. (© Daily Telegraph, London) Irish Independent 
