drugs
{  
    August 22 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/erratic-motorists-under-influence-of-some-drug-27766840.html }
SEVEN out of ten erratic motorists tested by Gardai are under the influence of some sort of drug.This is one of the findings of a major State investigation released this week, which reports that there is a significant problem with drug driving in Ireland.The report, by the Medical Bureau of Road Safety, also finds that six out of ten of those drivers, mainly youn SEVEN out of ten erratic motorists tested by Gardai are under the influence of some sort of drug. This is one of the findings of a major State investigation released this week, which reports that there is a ‘significant problem with drug driving in Ireland’. The report, by the Medical Bureau of Road Safety, also finds that six out of ten of those drivers, mainly young males, are high on cannabis. Most have not drunk alcohol at all, but instead smoked cannabis cigarettes, or many middle-aged men have taken anti-depressant drugs prescribed by their GPs. It is illegal in Ireland to drive while under the influence of drugs. The Road Traffic Acts clearly prohibit ‘the driving of a mechanically propelled vehicle by a person while under the influence of an intoxicant’. An intoxicant is defined as including alcohol and drugs and any combination of drugs and alcohol. When a member of the Garda suspects that a motorist is driving under the influence of any intoxicant the Garda may arrest the suspect. A Swords garda said that the procedure for forming an opinion on drug-driving was similar to that of drink-driving. ‘Normally, if a Garda observes a motorist driving in an erratic manner, and they are seemingly sober, you would suspect the use of drugs.’ She added that you would usually get a smell of alcohol, but if that was absent and the driver was behaving in an unusual manner, that would be reason enough to supect drug use. ‘Dilation of the pupils can also be a tell-tale sign of drug use,’ Garda Faughnan added, and said that the test for drug use would normally be done through a blood or urine sample, similar to drink-driving. Prosecutions are still rare in Irish courts for drug-driving cases. From a sample of 2000 blood and urine samples supplied by Gardai who stopped erratic drivers, the report shows thay a third of those driving below the alcohol limit (that is either none, or below the legal limit of 80mg), had taken one or more drugs, mainly cannabis. In Dublin, 60 per cent of drivers with no alcohol had taken drugs. and more than one in six of those over the limit, has also taken drugs. 
