drugs
{  
    April 03 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/localnotes/new-drugs-unit-making-headway-in-fight-against-drugs-27060881.html }
SINCE its establishment over eight weeks ago, the North Cork Drugs Unit is making steady progress in its battle against the spread of drugs in the county.Since weve arrived theres been a fierce drought of stuff around the streets, theres been little or n SINCE its establishment over eight weeks ago, the North Cork Drugs Unit is making steady progress in its battle against the spread of drugs in the county. “Since we’ve arrived there’s been a fierce drought of stuff around the streets, there’s been little or no street dealing, and we’d like to keep it that way,” says the Garda heading up the unit in Mallow, Sergeant Gerard Quinn. “As each week goes by we’re stepping up our campaign and gaining more knowledge about the industry in North Cork. We’re starting to get more pro-active, and taking our searches to houses where we believe drugs may be held.” While most of the drugs in North Cork are recreational, there are people developing addiction problems, the drugs officer says, whose unit has made several significant seizures in recent weeks. “The consequences of addiction are beginning to show its ugly head now, with a higher rate of people suffering from depression and psychosis as a result of overindulging in ecstasy,” says Sergeant Quinn. “I’ve known people brought to hospital suffering side-effects after taking their first E tablet. Their heart rate would be up to 160, and they might have a fit.” As part of their role in educating the community about the reality of drugs, the unit stress that they are open to being approached by parents who may be concerned that their child is on drugs. “Their child will not face legal charges, if they approach us for help,” insists Sgt. Quinn. “We’re not in that business. We’ve a threefold thing, and whilst we while prosecute people we detect, we also want to stress that we’re there to point parents in the right direction if they have a problem at home, and to educate young people about the consequences of drugs,” says Sgt. Quinn. “If they have substantial worries, they can ring us at any time and we’ll talk to them and tell them where they can get help.” According to the Mallow based Garda, most users would be from the age of 17 upwards, but the unit has come across children below that age who are getting involved in the drugs scene as a result of peer pressure. “It’s everywhere you go these days, with cannabis and ecstasy the two main drugs that would be used, particularly at the raves,” the Garda says. “The price has dropped and that has affected supply. When ecstasy hit the market first you’d pay £20 for a tablet, now you can get one for ?4 or ?5. You’ve your social problems here in Mallow just like everywhere else, and you’ll find people willing to make a quick buck selling drugs.” Situated in the centre of Munster, Mallow has become a gateway of sorts for the traffic of drugs in and out of Limerick and Cork City, and it is this which the unit aim to combat in their daily fight against drugs. 
