drugs
{  
    April 22 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/north-dublin-tops-drug-taking-charts-27772236.html }
NORTH Dublin has the highest prevalence of illegal drug use in the country according to a major survey published this week.The area served by the Northern Area Health Board, which includes Fingal, topped the drug taking charts in almost every category in the survey.A spokesperson for the NAHB said: We cover a large urban area including the north inner city and it NORTH Dublin has the highest prevalence of illegal drug use in the country according to a major survey published this week. The area served by the Northern Area Health Board, which includes Fingal, topped the drug taking charts in almost every category in the survey. A spokesperson for the NAHB said: ‘We cover a large urban area including the north inner city and it’s an area with a lot of disadvantage in it. That goes some of the way to explaining the figures. ‘We are aware of the problem and have a number of programmes in place to deal with it,’ the spokesperson said. The NAHB will make a more detailed response to the survey’s findings when their experts have had a chance to evaluate the information fully but stressed there are a wide range of drug and alcohol treatment and prevention programmes in operation in the area. More than 8,000 people between the ages of 15 and 64 were interviewed for the survey which was conducted north and south of the border. The results were divided into three broad categories which measured people’s drug taking habits over the last month, year, and over their lifetime. In all three categories, NAHB results were the highest in the country and way above the national average. Almost 30 per cent of those surveyed in the NAHB area had taken an illegal drug at some point in their life, against a national average of 19 per cent. Eight and a half per cent of people in the NAHB area had taken drugs in the past year, three percent higher than the national average. Recent drug use was measured by asking respondents if they had used illegal narcotics within the last month. The figure for recent drug use in the NAHB area was 5.4 per cent, more than the national average of three per cent. Cannabis was by far the most popular drug in the survey with 29 per cent of NAHB participants confessing to taking the drug in their lifetime, the next highest figure was for ecstasy, at seven per cent. The Minister for State for the National Drugs Strategy Noel Ahern TD launched the report and said it provided the Government with ‘excellent baseline information on drug prevalence that would be very useful in the context of the ongoing implementation of the National Drugs Strategy’. The study was conducted by MORI on behalf of National Advisory Committee on Drugs (NACD) and the Drug and Alcohol Information and Research Unit (DAIRU). 
