drugs
{ Michael Brennan 
    July 23 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/mobiles-targeted-in-battle-against-drug-lords-26306488.html }
ALL mobile phones will have to be registered as part of a government plan to improve surveillance on drug dealers. Currently, any person can buy a pay-as-you-go mobile phone anonymously, which makes it harder for the gardai to track those involved in the drugs trade. In an interview with the Irish Independent, the new Minister for Drugs Pat Carey said it would help to tackle the "rampant use" of mobile phones in prisons, as well as small-time dealers working in the "shopping centre car park, the church car park or the local football field". "If you've nothing to hide, you've nothing to fear. There may well be confidentiality or civil liberties issues but there are lives of people [at stake] as well, which I believe overrides any of those." The measure is part of the anti-drugs strategy agreed with the Green Party under the programme for government. Mr Carey said there were also plans to provide a Criminal Assets Bureau officer in every garda division so that mid- and lower-level drug dealers (who would have come to the attention of the drugs squad) could be targeted via their assets. However, he also emphasised that rehabilitation would be a key part of the Government's strategy, with plans to ring-fence another 300 community employment jobs for recovering addicts, to double the number of detox beds to almost 50, and to set up a nationwide system of drugs courts. "Rather than saying, let's have a war on cocaine or a war on ecstasy - all of those wars, if they're completely disjointed, they're going to get nowhere. What we need is a coherent approach to illicit drug use." This would include tackling the so-called 'gateway drug' alcohol, which cropped up in almost every single discussion he had with recovering drug addicts. He is currently working with the HSE and the Department of Education to create a high-profile awareness campaign to encompass all drugs. He also said he would be trying to help towns in the new commuter belt - such as Portlaoise, Navan and Trim - who had seen their population explode but needed youth facilities to curb the threat of drug abuse. "Many of them went from towns which had one three-teacher school to two 16-teacher schools in the space of five years. In Ballymun, people moved out of the inner city and you had no development of facilities." 'A lot of people doing cocaine don't regard themselves as drug misusers' He spoke of his shock at the revelation that cocaine addicts had to get limbs amputated and that pubs in Crumlin in south Dublin had to be shut down recently at 10pm due to the presence of so many 'coked-up' drinkers. The use of the cocaine per person here is the third highest in Europe and in the last seven years the number of people seeking treatment for addiction to the drug has increased by 700pc. Mr Carey said the drugs strategy had to reach out to a new group of users - people who were not even aware of their growing addiction. "You meet a lot of people who don't regard themselves as drug misusers and certainly not as drug addicts. They're in very good jobs - I'm met everybody from people working in financial services to plasterers, plumbers, hotel managers. They have been involved in cocaine misuse." 
