drugs
{  
    March 09 2008 04:50 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/seduced-by-celebrity-but-fact-is-drugs-dont-work-26428945.html }
SHOULD celebrities be allowed to take drugs and get away with it? Even if ordinary citizens are not? Does the fact that Pete Doherty appears to qualify for the Guinness Book of Records -- not for the quantity of his records sold, but for the amount of times he's been busted -- cause the young and impressionable to take drugs, too? The subject of celebrities behaving badly is one that we are well used to seeing splashed about in the tabloids, and on "entertainment" television. But this past week, a far more august body -- the United Nations, no less -- has added its opinion to the debate. According to a report by the board of the newly established UN International Narcotics Control Board, there is a global epidemic of illegal drug trafficking, and this is being fuelled by the public perception that drugs are associated with glamour and with celebrity. The problem is that, because of the widescale reporting of celebrities' every visit to the powder room, we all know that a great many models, rock stars, footballers, movie stars and television "personalities" fuel their fabulous personalities -- with cocaine in particular, but also with other illegal substances. If there is anyone out there who doesn't believe this, they can take it from me, because I have spent much of my life in the powder rooms of recording studios, film sets, television studios and such like, and there is no question that it is true. The real question is: do other people take more drugs just because celebrities do it? And does the fact that, as the UN report says, the celebrities who are caught doing drugs very seldom go to prison make people more or less likely to copy them? I have to admit that I have been influenced to do bad things to myself by the glamorous people who I have observed also doing them. As a young girl, seeing Lauren Bacall pulling out endless cigarettes, only to have them lit for her by the likes of Humphrey Bogart, certainly caused me to take up smoking, even though I hated the taste. And the fact that Paul McCartney (with whom I was in love) smoked dope made me think that must be cool, too. I became inclined to stay up all night drinking and doing bad things due to the influence of my partner Shane, who epitomised cool for me, when I moved to London. And when I met Pete Doherty and he pulled out his crack pipe over afternoon tea, I thought him the most decadent dandy the world had ever seen. In my own mind, the combination of his Dior cape and his debauchery, together with the opulence of our surroundings, transported me to a sort of Alice in Wonderland for grown-ups. Although I didn't actually smoke the crack, I really, really wanted to. And so, it is hard to blame anyone who has been similarly seduced by the glamour that appears to be associated with drug abuse, be it the legal kind or the illegal kind. Maybe we all wish we were more glamorous, or more exciting, more like movie stars or rock stars or models. The fact that celebrities appear to get away with things that ordinary people don't is not quite as clear cut, however. The UN report states, "They [the celebs] get more lenient responses by the judiciary and law enforcement, and that is regrettable. "There should not be any difference between a celebrity who is breaking the law and non-celebrities." The thing is, ordinary people who get busted may be fined, or they may do time. But being ordinary means that their "ordeals" are unlikely to be photographed or televised, or endlessly talked about by the rest of the world. Anonymity means that even if you have done time, the people in the next city you visit don't know anything about you, they haven't seen pictures of you everywhere, and it may be tough, but there is the possibility that you can overcome your addiction and lead a normal life. Once a celebrity has been associated with a drug, it is hard to shake off the association -- even if, as in the case of Kate Moss, who is now widely known as Cocaine Kate, no charges have been brought. That is not to say that anonymous drug users have an easier time than celebrity ones, because celebrities often have more money with which to buy treatment for themselves, if they so choose. The more important question is the long-term effect on the general public of celebrity drug abuse and also of the leniency of the courts in punishing these people. In order to answer this question, I also looked at my own life. Was I negatively affected by my own susceptibility to glamorous drug users? Do I smoke marijuana now? Do I smoke fags? Do I drink too much, or use cocaine or crack or any other illegal substances? The answer to all those questions is no, I don't. Not because I have been told not to by anyone else, but because I have evolved and discovered that the drugs don't really work, and you don't feel good the next day after doing them. You feel irritable, anxious, depressed, run down, tired, paranoid -- the list of bad feelings far outweighs the few good ones you may have had. And the more you consume, the harder it gets to feel good. All of this, I learned from experience. But generally speaking, people don't want their kids to experiment. They don't want them to be the one who, like the late, great Katy French, goes from being a bright and bubbly kid with everything to live for, to being dead. And I certainly don't blame parents for this. But what I do suggest is that everyone takes a long, hard look at the likes of Amy Winehouse, Pete Doherty, Kerry Katona, Britney Spears and even Shane. Because I don't think that anybody, however impressionable, really thinks that the drugs have worked for them. Any man who could be stupid enough to dump Kate Moss for drugs is clearly not doing himself any favours. Amy leaves us in no doubt as to her misery. And Shane freely admits that he is a walking advertisement for how booze can damage your health. If you consider the other famous celebrity drug/alcohol abusers like Kurt Cobain, River Phoenix, Jimi Hendrix, Janis Joplin, Edie Sedgwick, and Phil Lynott, you can't help noticing that they are all dead. And that is not what most young people want to be. Celebrities are celebrated partly because their lives are more exciting than those of "civilians". They usually have more money, they party more, they get to sleep with other celebrities. They generally have a lot of drama going on, otherwise we would lose interest in them. But perhaps their lives don't have to be pure entertainment? Perhaps they can be teachers for the rest of us, even if they do it by making mistakes? Perhaps there are some kids who will look at Amy or Pete and think: 'Hmm. Maybe I could learn something from these two about what not to do?' Perhaps, in fact, the UN has got it completely wrong, and celebrity drug users are the best possible deterrent for the young? ©Victoria Mary Clarke 
