drugs
{  
    November 19 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/lifestyle-change-led-to-travellers-drug-abuse-crisis-26418866.html }
JOHN DRENNAN TRAVELLER children as young as 10 are smoking cannabis, a recent report has revealed. Most Travellers who use drugs are 15- to 34-year-old males, but young women are also involved. And there is evidence of Travellers involved in the "sex worker industry". Now Labour TD Tommy Broughan has criticised Minister Noel Ahern, whose department co-ordinates the National Drugs Strategy, over his "lethargic response" to the escalating drug crisis in the Traveller community. The recent study by the National Advisory Committee on Drugs found that people working with the community believed drug abuse was "a huge issue" which could reach "epidemic proportions". Contributors to the report noted that "it's very normal to smoke hash" and that often "you're looking at the young fellows from 10 years of age . . . and they're rolling joints". But these can be a stepping stone to harder drugs like ecstasy and cocaine which have become "a big issue" in the Traveller community. The report says cocaine is a prestige drug among Travellers. "It's cool, gives you power and generates a lot of income," it was noted. The study, which interviewed members of the Travelling community, found 45 per cent "perceived there was heroin use in their community". In the report, contributors claimed that at social gatherings coke and ecstasy are "readily available", to the point where the toilets at wedding functions are avoided because "that's where the dealing is done". Economic factors and social exclusion have played a major role in the rise of the use of hard drugs. There are claims that Travellers are trading in drugs "like they used to trade in other things"; because with the changing lifestyle, horses and scrap dealing are gone, and "there's nothing else to do now". The report notes that drug use is increasing because some Travellers believe it is easier "to get drugs than drink in a pub". There are also claims that dealers were operating freely in Traveller areas, through a mixture of intimidation and suspicion of the authorities. Many Travellers believe the gardai are not acting against dealers because those dealers are providing information to them on other crimes. This has led to the vicious circle where Travellers are threatened by settled dealers and moneylenders on some sites, while on others, drug dealing is "organised and controlled by Traveller families who were terrorising the other inhabitants". Social workers from a variety of agencies who work with Travellers were interviewed for the study. One of them claimed: "There are some halting sites that are at times caught up in the whole milieu of drug use, drug dealing, and you can't go in for a few weeks because guns are being pulled." The report notes that one of the factors behind the rise of this drug culture is that Traveller families are "increasingly vulnerable to disruption, breakdown and conflict". Tommy Broughan said "fine young chaps who are working and who are anxious to get off drugs" have no services available to them. He said the drug problem had "a horrific impact of funeral after funeral for an entire generation of working-class communities, and it would be horrific if this now spread into the Travelling community also". 
