drugs
{  
    July 23 2014 04:21 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/cash-seized-by-gardai-during-drug-raid-to-be-returned-to-house-owner-30449767.html }
Cash seized by gardai during a drugs raid is to be returned to the man whose house it was found in. The man denied the money was from the sale of drugs. The €500 in cash was the subject of an application under the Police Property Act at Sligo District Court. John McManus sought the return of the money seized at his home at Old Dublin Road, in November 2011. Inspector Paul Kilcoyne told the court that gardai had carried out a search of McManus's house under the Misuse of Drugs Act. They discovered a "significant quantity" of drugs, drugs paraphernalia and also seized €500 in cash. The Inspector said that they believed the cash was "part of the drugs trade and consistent with drug dealing". He added: "Gardai have not received any proof to suggest that it was from anywhere else". Gardai also seized weighing scales, an electric grinder and a diary "containing evidence of drug dealing". Solicitor Mark Mullaney told the court McManus said that when the house was being searched he had tried to explain the money was a loan he had borrowed. He also said that the drugs were being held by McManus for someone else for no reward. McManus acknowledged he had pleaded guilty at the time to having the drugs for sale or supply. But he denied he was selling drugs. He said he was holding the drugs for someone else and denied he was paid for doing this. He claimed he did it because this person "did him a favour". McManus said: "I had my van smashed a couple of times. "I went to the guards but I got no help. This person said, 'if you look after this (the drugs), I will look after you'. "I was run off the road and had the windscreen of my van smashed. "He said, 'if you do this, I will sort your problem out'." McManus said that the €500 was part of a loan of €600 he had got. He spent €100 on Christmas presents and was keeping the €500 to spend on repairing his car. The case was put back to allow him to bring proof to court. He later returned to court with a repayment book from Provident Personal Credit showing a loan of €600 taken out shortly before the raid. Inspector Paul Kilcoyne said it appeared the loan was taken out on November 19th 2011, four days before the drugs search. Judge Kilrane said there were three matters that go with drug dealing: drugs, paraphernalia, including phones, and cash. He added he didn't know if the money was from drug dealing, and when he didn't know, the money had to go back to McManus The Judge made an order returning the money to him. Sligo Champion 
