drugs
{  
    May 15 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/frightening-number-of-young-people-in-area-using-cannabis-27543902.html }
Parents can play a vital and important part in the prevention of drug use amongst young people  that was the clear message delivered to parents of students attending Coola Post Primary School at a drugs information night in the school. The meeting heard from a member of the Garda Drugs Unit based in Sligo that the number of young people using drugs in the area was “frightening”, while Gd. Sgt. Arthur Boyle from Riverstown stressed that alternative entertainment needed to be provided in local communities for young people in order to change the pub culture. Parents at the meeting expressed concerns about later opening in pubs and the culture of young people having more money to spend because of part-time jobs.  Pressures Sgt. Boyle, who chaired the meeting, pointed out that teenagers were growing up in a very different society from the one their parents had known as youngsters. There were so many pressures and difficulties to be faced by young people today which were unheard of even a few years ago. Susan Gilmartin, Health Education Promotion Officer with the North Western Health Board, outlined the “Health Kicks Programme” being run in the school. She explained that when children are young, parents have a huge influence on their lives. When they come to teenage years, their peers play a huge role and the role of the parents changed. They still needed parents, but others had a bigger influence, Emphasising the need to look at teenagers in a realistic way, she said there was nothing as tragic as “a parent in denial”, believing that their child would not get involved in anything wrong. Breeda Loughlin from the Alcohol and Substance Counselling Service explained the nature of counselling and how it was community based and dealt with people who had already encountered a problem. She explained that the three main types of drug abuse were experimental; sporadic/recreational; and chronic. Young and old misused drugs, especially alcohol, but those in the 15-39 age group were the biggest offenders.  Symptoms She outlined a range of symptoms which a young person on drugs might exhibit, such as abnormal sleeping pattern, sudden mood changes, lack of interest in school, hobbies or friends, but pointed out that it was unwise for parents to jump to conclusions. She stressed the need for an open line of communication between parents and teenagers. Parents who suspected their children of drug taking should stay clam and talk to their children rather than at them. Advice, guidance and support should be sought from a doctor or the Substance Misuse Counselling Service run by the North Western Health Board. It was important, Ms. Loughlin stressed, for parents to help children develop their personal strengths, characteristics and values, to make time for them and to be there for them, encouraging them to share their feelings. It was also important to encourage them to develop their talents and hobbies and extra curricular activities. Gd. Pauline McDonagh, who works in the Divisional Drugs Unit in Sligo town, explained that six years ago there were two members of the unit in Sligo, and now there were a total of seven. The most commonly abused drug in the country was alcohol. Parents seemed to have a perception that the Gardai should be keeping under-18’s out of discos, because it was against the law for them to be there, but they failed to realise that parents were responsible for their own children.  Frightening Showing the parents a block of cannabis resin, which could be bought for ?650 but had a street value of ?3,200, Gd. McDonagh said the number of young people who were using cannabis resin in this area was frightening and their attitude was that they were not doing anyone any harm. Drugs, she said, were all about money. Small pieces at a low cost were used initially until the user became dependent. The pocket suffered and an obligation to sell for the dealer, in order to feed his or her own habit, followed. Soon, the youngster was using and dealing. There was very little co-operation between the youngsters and the drug unit as the consequences for the young person were too great. It was a well known fact, she said, that youngsters would go to any lengths to conceal drugs. Passing around an ecstasy tablet, Gd. McDonagh explained that one tablet could be made up of any cocktail of drugs. One could take five or six tablets and be fine, while a half a tablet could be lethal — it depended on the cocktail used in their making. She added that the heroin and cocaine problem had not developed in Sligo, but these drugs were being moved through this area.  Vital Mr. Rick Lyons, Anti-Drug Promotion Officer with the North Western Health Board, explained the holistic approach used by the Board in the area of drugs misuse. He pointed out that school was a vital place for drug education, where youngsters were not only educated about drugs but were also taught how to enjoy good health. He outlined that a recent survey showed that 87% of people in the 15-17 age group had tried alcohol; 25% had tried cannabis; 5% had used ecstasy and/or amphetamines and 5% had used solvents. These statistics brought home to parents the message that it was important to know what was actually happening with their children. In a question and answer session, many parents voiced concerns about entertainment for the youth being held at such late hours, and the huge problem of youngsters having more money to spend because of part-time jobs. Sgt. Boyle confirmed that since later opening hours were introduced in pubs, the level of violence had increased in every area. He pointed out that many community halls were lying idle in areas where entertainment could be organised and run at local level. While pubs seemed to be the centre of everything for youngsters, alternative entertainment needed to be organised to change this culture, and it had to happen within the community. 
