drugs
{  
    November 26 2016 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/drug-party-trio-to-be-sentenced-friday-in-wake-of-death-of-alex-35240865.html }
A judge has sympathised with the family of a young North Corkman who died  in Cork University Hospital five days after ingesting a deadly dangerous hallucinogenic drug at a house party in Cork city earlier this yea.  Judge Gerard O'Brien extended his sympathy to the family of 18 year old Alex Ryan from Millstreet as he adjourned the case against three people charged with drug offences following a Garda investigation into the death of Mr Ryan. Judge O'Brien expressed concern after hearing the evidence in the case of three accused, Harry Clifton (29), Ruairi Maher (22) and Jessica O'Connor (20) of Rosebank House, Ballyhar, Killarney, Co Kerry, who were charged following the death of Alex Ryan (18) in Cork earlier this year. Mr Ryan from Liscahane, Millstreet, died at Cork University Hospital on January 23, 2016 after taking ill when he ingested a synthetic drug called 251 NBOMe, colloquially known as N-bomb, at a house party at St Patrick's Terrace, Greenmount, on January 18. Judge O'Brien questioned whether Clifton - who had pleaded to possessing the drug for sale or supply - had any insight into the dangers of such designer drugs after hearing evidence about the garda investigation into how Mr Ryan ended up consuming the fatal drug. Judge O'Brien had heard that Mr Ryan and O'Connor had been among a group of 60 young people who participated in a party at Oliver Plunkett Street in Cork where alcohol, speed and ecstasy were consumed on January 15th and the party continued for some over the weekend until January 18th. Some eight people were at the house party in Greenmount and six of these, including Mr Ryan and O'Connor, ended up at CUH after ingesting N bomb with five them making a recovery but Mr Ryan losing his fight for life five days later.  "What is alarming is the level of disrespect that young people have for themselves and their own safety by taking drugs that are illicit and manufactured by criminals, and think it's okay  because they are having a good time," said Judge O'Brien. Clifton had earlier pleaded guilty to a total of four charges arising out of the garda investigation into Mr Ryan's death, including possessing N Bomb and possessing MDMA or ecstasy for sale or supply and simple possession of DMT and cannabis at his flat at Proby's Quay in Cork on January 19th. Maher of Ballycurrane, Thurles, Co Tipperary, pleaded guilty to conspiring with another to possess N-bomb for the purpose of sale or supply in Cork city on January 19th while O'Connor pleaded guilty to possessing N bomb for supply to another, also in Cork city on January 18th. Det Garda Danny McInerney told Cork Circuit Criminal Court that gardai began an investigation after six people were taken to CUH after ingesting a drug at a house party. Phone records led them to Clifton. Gardai searched his house and found a half a gramme of N bomb which Clifton told them was part of a batch of the drug which he thought was a less potent synthetic drug called  2CB, while they also found 5.5gms of MDMA worth €550. Gardai established that Clifton had sold 12 trips of N bomb to Maher on January 18th for €80 when he called to the flat with O'Connor and Mr Ryan, and that Maher had sold 12 trips on to others in the group for a total sum of €120, making a €40 profit for himself. Maher had linked up with O'Connor on Tindr and in the course of attending the party on Oliver Plunkett Street on January 15th he had offered to try and source some drugs from Clifton, who told him when handing over the drugs that no one should consume more than one trip of the drug. Clifton had five previous convictions, including one for cultivation of opium poppies, while Maher had 11 previous convictions, including one for simple possession of drugs. O'Connor, who was studying architecture in UCC at the time, had no previous convictions. Judge O'Brien heard that all three were deeply remorseful for what had happened and never expected the drugs to have the fatal consequences that they had, even though Det McInerney told the court that N bomb was known to have been fatal in several cases worldwide. Judge O'Brien, who was told that none of the three had any drug addictions, adjourned the matter until Friday for penalty and he extended his sympathy to members of Mr Ryan's family who were in present in court. Corkman 
