drugs
{  
    September 03 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/battle-cant-be-won-until-glamour-is-taken-out-of-party-drug-26315473.html }
THE drugs war in Ireland cannot be won until there is a drop in demand for the "glamorous party drug" which is hooking more users with every year, those in the frontline of the war on drugs have warned. "There is clearly an increase in demand and we blame the Celtic Tiger. It used to be the drug of the upper classes but that is no longer the case. "There are many middle class people, who feel unconnected to gangland and criminality using drugs, who are unwittingly helping to fund the trade," according to the country's new drugs tsar Pat Carey. Policing a problem is notoriously difficult when the problem just keeps on getting bigger -- something Mr Carey is quick to acknowledge. Mr Carey will be sitting down this week to plant the seeds of the Government's new drugs strategy, due to be implemented in 13 months' time. He said cocaine will be high on the list of priorities, alongside heroin and the growing spectre of crystal meth. "It is clear that there is now a very significant amount of the drug globally. Ireland is now among the key targets of the drug barons of Columbia and South America," he said, citing Ireland's location in Western Europe and its vast coastline as being major factors. "Intelligence shows us that we are along one of the main routes where drugs travel up from the West African coast. "Our surveillance is improving but so is the expertise of the smugglers. Nobody is quite sure how much is out there. The most recent UN estimates suggest that there was a 42 per cent interception rate last year which is a big increase but is still no reason to be complacent." Plans for the new drugs strategy include more cocaine-specific clinics, but the Minister said many users were taking multiple drugs, including alcohol, and this pattern was often seen in cocaine users. The price of cocaine on Europe's streets fell by 22 per cent between 1999 and 2004, according to the European drugs monitoring centre. The Garda National Drugs Unit reported cocaine being sold at street level in 2002 for between €90 and €110 per gram, while in 2003 the same source reported that cocaine sold at €70 per gram. John Connolly, a criminologist with the Health Research Board, points out that the volume of cocaine seized has increased steadily since 2001, from just over 5kg in 2001 to 229kg in 2005 and 190kg last year. He said that although there was debate about the exact figures, only 10 per cent or 20 per cent of the total supply might get intercepted. "If it destabilises the market then seizing drugs is useful but we need equal energy put into tackling the level of demand -- looking at who is using it and why, and how to treat them." "Cocaine seizures bypassed heroin seizures in terms of numbers for the first time last year, and this is a better indicator of the scale of the problem than quantity alone." Figures from the State Laboratory, which analyses samples for coroners and in criminal cases, show more than a six-fold increase last year. And the National Drug Trend Monitoring System's latest figures show 50 per cent of its trend monitors believe cocaine to be the drug of greatest increase. 
