drugs
{  
    December 11 2014 03:32 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/rugby/audio-paul-kimmage-shane-byrne-and-trevor-hogan-have-heated-debate-on-the-issue-of-drugs-in-rugby-30824480.html }
Sunday Independent columnist Paul Kimmage, and former Ireland internationals Shane Byrne and Trevor Hogan had a very interesting debate on the issue on whether there is a drug problem in rugby. In recent columns for the Sunday Independent, Paul Kimmage has talked about fears over a drug problem in rugby and stated that  “any sport that has a supplement culture at 16 is on a dodgy path”. Kimmage backs up a lot of his points with a new book by Laurent Benezech who fears that rugby is being damaged by drug abuse and that there is a culture of 'medicalisation' and recently won a court case after he was sued for suggesting that there was a drug problem in the game. The likes of Jamie Heaslip, Alan Quinlan and Joe Schmidt have come out in recent weeks and refuted claims there is a problem. Shane Byrne, talking on Today with Sean O'Rourke on RTE Radio One, suggested that with the current testing programmes, it would be very difficult to conceal drug taking at the highest level of the game. "It would want to be masterminded to be able to do it," Shane Byrne. "They call to your house, they do random testing at games but there probably is a way around them. "It would be unbelievably hard to hide being on drugs." Two players from each team are tested after each international at random but Kimmage has his doubts over the testing regime. "I hear Joe Schmidt in the Irish Times this morning talking about how many times the testers have come into the camps . If you have a brain in your head, you're not going to be doing drugs at the time of an Irish camp," he said. "You're doing it when you are in rehab, coming back from an injury, or during the summer when everyone is gone off on holidays. "The pressure is at international level for players to get bigger and heavier and the juniors then see this and they know what they have to do to reach that level. "It doesn't happen from the bottom up but the top down." Former Ireland international Byrne was adamant that if there was an underlying problems with drugs it needed to be "stamped out". Both Byrne and Trevor Hogan cautioned about linking protein and whey protein supplements with doping. "I needed five or six kilograms to give me a little more size, to protect me on the pitch," Hogans said of his own playing days. "I don't think there is a considered silence or omerta about doping in Irish rugby." Byrne added: "There is something going on, Paul doesn't go on about these things unless there is meat on the bone. "Paul has to define the difference between illegal drug use and steroids etc. as opposed to supplements. "There is a complete and absolute difference between the two of those things but unfortunately they are both being lumped into the same argument  here." Kimmage pointed out that a third of the athletes currently banned because of doping in the UK are rugby union players and Trevor Hogan believes it may be down to a 'Geordie Shore' culture rather than anything to do with the sport. Listen to the thought-provoking debate below: Online Editors 
