drugs
{  
    March 03 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/how-much-longer-will-people-have-to-suffer-27746099.html }
On Sunday February 13, another young man aged just 24 years died, another victim of the dreaded heroin curse. However, he is not the first and I am sure he won't be the last to fall victim to heroin addiction.  He, like many a young person that has gone before him, thought that they could give up the drugs whenever they wanted, only to find that when they did try there was not On Sunday February 13, another young man aged just 24 years died, another victim of the dreaded heroin curse. However, he is not the first and I am sure he won't be the last to fall victim to heroin addiction. He, like many a young person that has gone before him, thought that they could give up the drugs whenever they wanted, only to find that when they did try there was not enough help out there available to them. There are no nicotine patches to help these vulnerable addicts get over their addiction. They were now at the mercy of the drug lords, those evil people that live in warmer climates while local pushers prey on the most vulnerable in our society, the addicts. They too have to sell to feed their growing habit, and the circle grows bigger and bigger. Family life as we know it is destroyed. When are we going to learn that we all have a role to play? We can no longer turn a blind eye because it has not come to your door yet, for it is all around you and it is up to you to play your part and put pressure on the politicians to have more done to bring these drug barons that are living like lords in warmer climates off their illegal profits. This Government and previous Governments have not done enough to set up drug-free centres. There should be a drug-free centre and a halfway house in every town in Ireland and these should be funded by any drug money that CAB has taken back from the drug lords and any other money that the CAB can locate. Drug testing kits should be made freely available to anyone with a medical card or indeed anyone that has a drug problem in the home. More must be done to fund the groups that are operating on a voluntary basis. These groups must be given funds to carry on their excellent work, for at the moment these people are doing their utmost to keep their doors open and operate a drug free service, without any funding whatsoever. We have at the moment young people from my own area who are on detox programs or are doing time for drug-related crimes. What happens when these young people come out? There is nothing facing them only to go back to the same kind of life they had before i.e. back on the streets? No-one wants to know them or give them a job. If their parents are working then they are not entitled to receive the dole, yet if they move from the family home into a flat then they are entitled to all benefits such as a medical card, and then they are back on the prescription drugs where it might have all started in the first place, Surely it would be better to let them stay in the family home and allow them a number of benefits. There should be Fás schemes set up where these young people can be given the opportunity to get back into the workforce with the right supervision. We must do everything to encourage the people that have come through the drug addiction to become more involved. These are the people with the answers, they know what the addicts are going through, and they are the people with a lot to contribute We need confidential lines set up where if you have any information on drug activity in your area that you can phone in with the information and not be treated like you're the criminal. Early intervention is also a way forward long before they are tempted into the drug scene. No stone should be left unturned to fight the drugs in our town. We must do everything in our power, and above all we must not say that it is not our problem. Everything possible should be done to form self-help groups and the parents of the young people on drugs should be encouraged to come along and tell their story and how they deal with the problems in their own home and so help one another and be there for each other. I have seen first hand the destruction that drugs can cause we must continue to fight this scourge and we must do it together. 
