drugs
{ Jim Cusack 
    November 01 2014 08:34 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/news/breaking-mad-meth-test-drugs-flood-our-streets-30710596.html }
Cheap new drugs causing crazed and violent behaviour are flooding our streets and causing major problems for frontline emergency workers, gardai told the Sunday  Independent. Gardai also believe international drug traffickers are using Ireland as a "testing ground" for new synthesised forms of deadly drugs before unleashing them on major European markets. An analysis is currently being carried out on some of the new drugs, which are being sold as crack cocaine but which contain chemicals including methamphetamine - also known as 'crystal meth', the drug associated with the award-winning Breaking Bad TV series - and other, as yet, unidentified chemicals. Senior garda sources said the new drugs are driving addicts into violent, uncontrollable rages. In one recent incident it took eight people, - four ambulance crew, two gardai and two male staff workers - at a drug treatment centre in Dublin to hold down one man who had taken one of the new drugs. A garda source told the Sunday Independent: "There were eight of them on him and he still managed to lift one of them up." The ambulance crew injected the man with a sedative, but it had little effect. They then had to seek permission from a medical supervision unit to inject the man with more, and far stronger, sedatives. He was eventually calmed and taken to hospital. In another disturbing incident, a young woman had to be restrained by four gardai after she began sticking a syringe into her head in the middle of a street in south central Dublin. No official information is being made available about what type of drugs are responsible and what kind of threat they pose to the health of users and to the public. Unofficially, gardai say that the country may be entering a new era where highly dangerous drugs are entering the country with consequences for both users and the public that are still unknown. They also believe the drugs are turning up here for "testing" before traffickers sell them to major markets. One experienced drugs officer said that there is "plenty of evidence" that new drugs that cause more violent behaviour in users are becoming increasingly, and more cheaply, available. Garda sources have told of a series of recent highly violent incidents related to the use of a drug which is being sold as 'crack', but which is also believed to contain 'meth' mixed with other chemicals. Crack, a condensed form of cocaine, is expensive, with a small lump or 'rock' usually costing €100 on the streets. However, the new adulterated crack is much cheaper and is becoming popular because of the swift and dramatic 'high' it gives users. Overdose of the drug is believed to be the cause of much of the highly erratic and violent behaviour emergency staff are experiencing on the front line. Gardai admit there is no information to date about who is supplying the drugs, but believe it is associated with foreign gangs who are filling a gap in the market for addicts who previously relied on heroin and cocaine imported by major Irish drug lords. Sunday Independent 
