drugs
{  
    March 30 2018 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/coroners-praise-for-nicole-36754351.html }
A coroner has praised the efforts of a young North Cork woman to try and raise awareness among young people of the dangers of taking synthetic drugs, following the death of her brother from one such drug as he dealt with a second case of a teenage dying in a similar situation. Cork City Coroner Philip Comyn this week recalled the death of 18 year old Alex Ryan from Millstreet, who died after taking the deadly hallucinogenic drug N Bomb at a party in Cork city in 2016 and he commended Alex's sister, Nicole, for highlighting the dangers of such drugs. Nicole Ryan pledged after her brother's death to visit schools to tell Alex's story and to warn young people about the dangers of drug taking as she feared other families might suffer the same as she and her mother have suffered, losing a loved one to drug taking. "I go to schools to educate people about their behaviour and share my story with them - it's sad to think I have to do this and that the government aren't backing me or doing anything in anyway but somebody has to do it and somebody has to teach people that this happens every day," she said. Mr Comyn noted Ms Ryan's work in schools after hearing how 16 year old student Michael Cornacchia  from Deerpark in Cork city died in January 2017 after taking the synthetic opioid U47700 in the mistaken belief he was snorting cocaine, which he had bought from another teenager.  "I have more and more of these types of cases coming before me," said Mr Comyn as he recalled how, this time last year, he held an inquest into the death of Mr Ryan, who died at Cork University Hospital four days after taking the synthetic drug 215 N Bomb - known at N Bomb. Mr Ryan's inquest had heard from Assistant State Pathologist Dr Margaret Bolster that Mr Ryan died from hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy - or global brain damage - due to cardiac arrest after ingesting 251N Bomb at a house party at Greenmount in Cork city on January 19, 2016. This week, Mr Comyn said if any good was to come from the deaths of teenagers such as Alex Ryan and Michael Cornacchia it would  be to highlight the dangers of such drugs and he had written to the Dept of Education after Mr Ryan's death calling for more school education programmes.  He suggested that health professionals along with family members of people who were lost to drug overdoses and those who survived drug overdoses could be brought into schools under a programme to address and educate students in Transition Year on the dangers of drug taking He had also written to the National Association of Secondary School Principals and to teacher unions, making a similar appeal but only the Dept of Education had responded which was disappointing but he would write again now in the wake of the inquest into Mr Cornacchia's death. Speaking at Mr Ryan's inquest last year, Mr Comyn noted that some schools do have such drug education programmes but it was very much down to the individual schools and individual teachers whereas the problem required a more structured and organised approach across all schools. Mr Comyn noted on that occasion that over one third of all 253 inquests that he dealt with in Cork city in 2016 related to people whose deaths were either directly caused by drugs including alcohol or where drugs including alcohol had been a contributory factor. Meanwhile Assistant State Pathologist Dr Bolster told Michael Cornacchia's inquest this week that taking drugs such as U47700 was akin to playing Russian roulette as such drugs were manufactured without any quality control and there was no certainty as to what they contained. Mr Comyn echoed her warning when he urged young people not to take such substances: "The people who make these drugs have no interest in their consumers. They are prepared to put anything into them to maximise their profits - that is all that they are interested in." Corkman 
