drugs
{ SIMON BROUDER 
    January 05 2009 02:34 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/countys-drugs-scourge-worsens-as-heroin-tightens-its-deadly-grip-27379355.html }
DRUGS continue to be a scourge in Kerry and, despite some major successes for the Kerry garda drugs unit over the last 12 months, the use and sale of narcotics in the county shows no signs of slowing. While cannabis, ecstasy and cocaine remain the most common drugs found in the county, frequently associated with all manner of public order offences that come before the courts, it is the continuing growth in the heroin trade that is of the greatest concern. 2008 has seen a marked rise in heroin-related offences in Kerry, be they for use, possession or dealing. Worrying, given the lethal drug was almost unheard of in the county as recently as 2005. Heroin use is becoming much more widespread with the drug, mainly concentrated in and around Tralee. The number of known addicts living in the county has also surged upwards from around 10 in 2005 to over 50 now. One of the most concerning aspects of Kerry's burgeoning drug trade is its link with the notorious feuding gangs of Limerick. Garda and legal sources in Kerry have confirmed that much of the county's drug trade, and especially the heroin market, is controlled by the murderous Limerick gangs who have spent much of the last year expanding their business around Munster. As the credit crunch impacts even on large drug dealers, with consumers slowing their drug intake, Kerry has also experienced an associated spike in minor drug-related crimes. With debts being called in by the Limerick and Cork drug lords, cash-strapped addicts are being forced to rob and steal to come up with cash to cover drug debts. This has manifested itself in a recent sharp rise in robberies and break-ins mainly concentrated around Tralee. While all this sounds extremely negative it's important to recognise the successes of the Kerry drugs unit over the last 12 months. The Kerry divisional drugs unit headquartered in Tralee have had a busy year with several high-profile drug seizures all over the county. 2008's largest seizure came last July when gardaí, acting on intelligence, raided several properties in the Dingle area and seized over €850,000 worth of cannabis. The largest ever seizure of the drug in the county. Other large busts came in Tralee in October when gardaí recovered €170,000 worth of cocaine and cannabis, in Listowel in November when the search of a house in the town turned up €25,000 of cocaine and in Lixnaw in May when €10,000 of heroin was captured. Meanwhile, in August, €60,000 worth of cannabis was recovered in Sneem. The Kerry gardaí have also had a successful year in the court securing jail sentences for several of the county's biggest drug dealers. 
