drugs
{  
    July 05 2009 03:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/woman/celeb-news/king-of-pops-death-set-my-soul-shuddering-26548556.html }
Little more than a week ago, Bryan Dobson interviewed me on the RTE Six One News about the death of Michael Jackson a day earlier. Most people said I looked "really relaxed" for someone who rarely appears on TV. If I did, it was thanks mostly to newsreader Una O' Hagan -- who, after I admitted, "I'm really nervous," told me, "Just look into Bryan's eyes" -- and to Dobson, who truly engaged me in conversation. Nevertheless, I was trembling inside. As I had been, to varying degrees, since 11pm the night before when I saw on Sky News: "Jackson dies of heart attack." Happily, having checked my pulse, I realised it wasn't me they were talking about! But, seriously, as soon as that celebrity gossip website tmz rumour was verified as fact and I learned that Michael Jackson had died from "cardiac arrest" at the age of only 50, I was sent winging back to at least two of the most soul-shuddering nights of my life. The first was August 16, 1977, again around 11pm, when I received a call from my girlfriend who informed me, "I have terrible news, Joe. It's Elvis, he's dead. Your mother phoned to tell me and said she couldn't bear to tell you the news herself because she knows Elvis was your life." How did I respond? I punched the wall and said, "No, he can't be." Then I turned on Radio Luxembourg, heard DJ Tony Prince announce, "Elvis Presley died today from a suspected heart attack ... " and I cried for the rest of the night. But you know what was almost as gutting as losing the original King of Pop, which is what I called Presley in a poem I had published in the Evening Herald when I was a child? The fact that within hours of his death we fans were forced to read banner headlines such as, 'Elvis Was a Junkie -- Says Ex-Wife.' Why was that so upsetting? Because this was the first time the world learned that Presley, who had perpetuated a drug-free image all his life, was heavily addicted to prescription drugs. And if this is all beginning to sound like a cosmic case of déjà vu, that's hardly surprising. Less than a day after Jackson's death, his former wife -- Elvis's daughter, Lisa Marie -- claimed that 14 years ago she and Michael were discussing the circumstances of her dad's death and he said, "I am afraid that I am going to end up like him, the way he did." Now, apparently, he has. However, I hadn't read that quote when I told Bryan Dobson I'd already noted "huge parallels" between Presley's death and Jackson's. I was simply referring to the fact that "cardiac arrhythmia" is said to have killed the former and "cardiac arrest" the latter. It also was rumoured that just before he died Jackson was injected with Demerol, a powerful, morphine-like, synthetic narcotic, which was one of a cocktail of no fewer than 10 prescription drugs found in Presley's body when he died. All of which led me to suggest that when the toxicology reports on Jackson are concluded, we could find that both Presley and Jackson, ultimately, died of drug abuse. In other words, they battered their hearts to death with proscription drugs. Beat It, indeed. But there is a more personal, even primal reason that all this Jackson-Presley-drug-death stuff sets my soul shuddering. It also is the real reason why, during so many of my interviews with celebrities over the past quarter-century, I brought up the subject of drugs. Most especially with rock stars I know who, like Presley, present a drug-free image to the world but secretly are, for example, heavy cocaine users. I did not want to see them end up like Elvis. Or like my dad. You read that right. My father, Joe Jackson Senior, was as addicted to prescription drugs as Presley was, and Jackson seems to have been. That's what I was alluding to during my Sunday Independent interview with Clannad musician Ciaran Brennan a few years ago, when we were discussing alcoholism and I wrote that my dad died "in part" because of a dependency on booze. But I didn't qualify that "in part". The truth is, my father's dependency on alcohol, which developed only during the last six years of his life, was a direct by-product of his use of drugs. Why haven't I told this story before? First, in 2007 I decided to cease interviewing celebrities for at least two years and, in effect, interrogate myself for a memoir about my dad and me. That memoir now is written, and I realise it had to be before I could go public on issues like his addiction. Second, the cumulative effect of Jackson's death, layered on top of memories of Presley's death, which was followed just nine months later by my dad's death, really compels me to remind people, "Never forget that it is not just street drugs that could kill you, prescription drugs can too." Third, I was similarly inspired, while researching a Johnny Cash show for RTE Radio One, to find that Cash regarded Hurt as the best "anti-drug song" he ever heard. And said of its accompanying video, which shows the man himself, ravaged by a lifetime of addiction to prescription drugs, "If it doesn't scare you away from doing drugs, nothing will." I pray my dad's diary entries will have a similar effect. But, first, when did my father start using drugs? Sadly, even his diaries don't give us a clue. Yet, I do remember him saying that when he was living in "Swinging London" in 1967, he tried purple hearts. Yeah, the same drug Jimi Hendrix was singing about in Purple Haze, around the same time, meaning I had a hip daddy. I also remember him showing me dope circa 1970 and saying, "I sometimes use this listening to Sinatra, it makes music sound better. You should try it." But I said, "No thanks, Dad," simply because, as an Elvis fanatic, I reckoned, falsely now, it transpires, "If the king doesn't need drugs, neither do I." But then in late 1972, "all changed, changed utterly", to quote Yeats. That's when my dad, a deeply troubled soul who once told me he'd never recovered from "being born a bastard in a country dominated by the unforgiving Catholic Church", and who, at the age of 11, after "stealing a few rashers", was sent to Glencree Remand School for three years -- where, I learned recently, he was "repeatedly raped'' by Christian Brothers -- and had ECT. As in, Electro Convulsive Therapy, the treatment that my mother insists, "finally led to the break-up of our family" and in the long run helped kill my father. She's probably right. At least in the sense that, as much as we loved -- and still love -- the man, it must be said that the eight sessions of ECT, plus whatever pills he was prescribed at the time; turned him into a monster. Particularly, and inexplicably, when it came to the way he treated me for at least two years. But then, finally, I was forced to leave home. Three years later, my mother followed, leaving only my father and my sister, Audrey, living in our home. However, it wasn't until after my dad's death, when I read his diary from this period, that we discovered he had been not only addicted to pills, but also was keeping a record of his attempt to break that addiction. What follows are some of those, at times unbearably harrowing, diary entries. "Day two: Didn't sleep, went downstairs, lit fire, made tea, back to bed at 4am, withdrawal symptoms bad. Every nerve in my body crying out for pill, sore throat, cold sweating, dry vomiting, want to die but must survive for Audrey's sake. Took 10 anti-depressants, vomiting for two hours on bed ... "Day 5: Sunday morning, 2am, took six Valium, can still feel nerve ends in my brain burning for another barbiturate. "Day Seven: Took three barbs. No reason, yet have not recovered enough to face my problems, or Audrey's, without stupefying numbness barbs induce. "Day 12: When one is on eight barbs a day and you run out of tablets, there is nothing but alcohol. Yet, that's a lethal mix, when your system is wired with barbs. But at this stage of addiction, it is impossible to go without something. "Day 13: On the hellish withdrawal road again, down to two barbs. If only I had someone to talk to. Tried Samaritans, nothing. You need to be drowning to know how I feel, they are not even wet. "Day 14: Pure hell. Needles in my brain and body, couldn't sleep, resorted to lying in bath and praying to the Shroud of Turin, hope I am heard. "Day 17: Dreading the days and hating the nights, what a way to live -- or die. Yet, fell asleep at 1am and awoke at nine! Head fogged. But must fight craving, can't give in. I have gone through too much pain, money, madness, but is this the vital turning point? Tune in again if you can't sleep!" I love that last line of humour. Tragically, my dad never wrote another diary entry, this was not a "vital turning point", and soon afterwards my sister also left home. But that did, at least, lead to my father getting in touch with me, for the first time in four years, to ask me to make sure Audrey was OK. In fact, we had many lengthy phone conversations that were truly redemptive for us both, and even met three times -- on one occasion I took the photo that accompanies this article -- which means my father's prayer for someone to talk with was answered. Not only that. One night on the phone I even told him, "You know I never stopped loving you, Dad." Then, later in the same conversation I suggested, "At least tonight you probably will go to sleep with a wee bit more of a smile on your face than you've had of late, right?" To which he replied, "I will, Joseph, because of you. You really have lifted me out of the f**king gutter." A week later that comment about going to sleep with a smile on his face took on a deeper meaning when I called to the family home and found my father dead. Juiced up on booze and probably dizzy from pills, he'd fallen to the foot of the stairs, where he choked, "simply because no-one was there to lift the man's chin from his chest", as the coroner noted. (He died at the same age Michael Jackson died, 50.) So, obviously, if my father hadn't allowed his addictions to drive my mother, my sister and me from our family home, one of us could have saved his life. I do hope you think of all this before you take that next drink or pill. © Joe Jackson Joe Jackson's 'Vinyl Record Store' is on RTE Radio One, Tuesday at 10pm 
