drugs
{  
    June 28 2013 03:05 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/henry-mcdonald-its-time-to-take-pragmatic-view-on-unwinnable-war-on-drugs-29379303.html }
When it comes to the daily sightings of the capital's army of the living dead, and apologies to that mawkish Cockney ditty, maybe it's because I'm a northerner and I live in Dublin town. Because even though I have lived in this city in different time bursts over the last 30 years, there is still one phenomenon that you never ever get used down south: the physical evidence of the abject failure of drugs prohibition policy. On the pavements, in dank alleyways and on the boardwalk along the river from O'Connell Bridge to Liberty Hall you will inevitably come across the zombified ranks of the heroin hooked as common nowadays and near permanent fixtures as the 'Tart with the Cart' and the 'Dick with the Stick'. They are the city's heroin addicts who congregate together, hanging out in the tourism and commercial centre, either to avail of the methodone clinics located on either side of the river; or to score their next fix. Since I first lived in Dublin during the recession-ravaged early 1980s, 'smack' and 'smackheads' have been a constant presence in and around the central zone. Thirty-plus years later, Ireland's capital per head of population retains one of the highest user populations of the class-A drug in 21st-century Europe. Even the muscle of the now defunct Provisional IRA – in their vigilante campaigns of the 80s, often in the main aimed at small-time dealers funding their own habits by selling to other users – failed to quell the enduring demand for heroin. While modern Ireland has been blighted by drug abuse, nations in Latin America are on the frontline of that great modern misnomer – the war on drugs. One such country is Guatemala, which has received billions in US aid not only to wage a vicious, amoral civil war of the right on the left, but also to engage in the futile struggle against drugs. After decades trying to use security measures to close down the drug cartels and the subsequent, miserable failure of this battle, some of the most senior people in the central American nation are coming round to a different viewpoint. Such as the president of Guatemala, Perez Molina, no less. In an interview with 'The Observer' before the world economic summit in Switzerland, President Molina had a message for the western nations who make up most of the consumer market for drugs like cocaine. "They must think not only of their country, but rather of the context of what is happening in the world, in regions such as Central America, where this destruction, this weakening of democracy, is happening. They must be open to recognising that the struggle against drugs, in the way it has been conducted, has failed. That is a fact, a fact that can be analysed after 40 years," he told the paper. Mr Molina went further than other leaders in the region, arguing for the introduction of a regulated market for drugs. Not full legalisation, but a controlled, regulated market for the production, distribution and sale of narcotics. It seems like a pragmatic and sensible shift in thinking, but so far no major politician in Ireland, the UK or any western democracy is prepared to back Mr Molina's alternative to the unwinnable war on drugs. His call for a paradigm shift in how we view drugs policy came about just a few months after two states in the US, Colorado and Washington, voted to legalise marijuana. The irony of this development will not be lost in, say, Mexico, where the US government funds programmes to keep cannabis out of the United States and constantly busts lorries criss-crossing the border that contain large quantities of marijuana. As with the Chicago of Al Capone, so it is the case with the drug-cartel tortured nations of Latin America. The criminals flourish because the state deems that while one drug is perfectly legal and socially acceptable, another is not. The so-called war on drugs has cost an incalculable amount of money with tens of thousands dying in this pointless struggle. The drug-free world envisioned by the utopians who drew up the 1961 UN Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs has been an utterly unrealisable dream. Irish Independent 
