drugs
{  
    June 09 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/sue-the-dealers-just-like-the-cig-companies-26249071.html }
Joe Mac Anthony on a way to make drug barons pay for their crimes LAST week's award of $3 billion in damages against the Philip Morris tobacco company for causing cancer in 56-year-old Richard Boeken raises the inevitable question. Why can't the same approach be taken and similar damages be sought from our latterday drug dealers? The evidence against them in Ireland is more compelling in the immediate damage than that marshalled against the tobacco companies in the United States. Our drug traders have created over 13,000 heroin addicts in Dublin alone, with up to 1,000 new ones appearing each year. The inner south city has an addiction rate among 15-to-24-year-olds the worst in Europe. Half of the Republic's prison population is addicted to drugs;h over 80 per cent test positive to hepatitis C. The price of dealing with a disaster of this magnitude in remedial health care and increasingly expensive prevention could run as high as £100 million. @@STYL cf,plab Certainly, there is an increasingly organised response by health professionals, social workers and activists to the continuing damage being done. The gardaí, too, appear to be having greater success with interdiction and convictions. And the Criminal Assets Bureau has seized £20m in cash and assets from major crime figures. While this CAB success is clearly welcomed, some realistic points remain to be made. The first is that the £20m yielded after five years of intense activity still only equals the fortune amassed by John Gilligan believed to be over £14m and the suspected £6m assets of one other criminal. Clearly, there are millions still out there which the CAB has neither the time nor resources to follow up on. There also remains the worrying possibility that when the appeals against the CAB seizures go to Europe, @@STYL cf,plab the bureau could be forced to hand back the seized crime-related money to the drug dealers. Informed opinion considers that a valid possibility which undoubtedly would have a devastating effect on the morale of those working in law enforcement and the remedial field. There may be a way to avoid that eventuality. But it would need energetic action from our legislators, if it is to be ready in time to counter a decision from Europe that favoured our drug lords. As with the case pursued against Philip Morris, it would involve suing the drug dealers for civil damages under a law similar to that recently passed by the US House of Representatives. The Drug Dealers Liability Act is designed to allow families, medical facilities treating drug users, employers and even addicts themselves to sue drug dealers because of physical or financial injury suffered @@STYL cf,plab as a result of drug dealers' activities. One advantage the act has that improves on the CAB's powers is that it allows seizure of assets including property, which normally escape confiscation because they cannot be shown to be the proceeds of crime. ALTHOUGH DDLA is in its infancy, one case before the courts has already yielded damages of $268m against a dealer who sold metamphetamines to a driver who subsequently killed a couple in a road accident. In another case, representatives of a baby, Felicia Brown, who was beaten to death with a hammer by her mother after she had used cocaine, sued a dealer with property and a legitimate business along with three others. That case is still before the courts. The Drug Dealers Liability Act, promoted by the actor Carroll O'Connor, whose son, a heroin addict, committed suicide, has its drawbacks, the primary one being that getting a civil damage award out of a dealer would be akin to getting blood out of a stone. But that would not be the case here, with the CAB holding millions of pounds from drug dealers, and likely much more before an appeals decision comes down from a European court. All of which might be handed over in a civil award to treatment clinics or others through the legal process. At present, the depressing news on the drug front is that a smart young non-drug-user has now taken over John Gilligan's territory, spreading the same rotten depredation as he accumulates millions. For all that, we could still, with the will first born from outrage over Veronica Guerin's murder, renew the battle with greater fire and try to give relief to those in the community who remain the drug dealers' principal victims. "Families should not have to solely bear the financial burden resulting from drug-related injuries," Aline Frescia said as her Drug Dealer's Liability measure passed in the New Jersey Assembly last October. "The ability to sue these purveyors of poison will ease the burden by making drug dealers pay." There ought to be enough people in the Dáil to make them pay here too. 
