drugs
{ Rita O'Reilly 
    May 31 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/is-baby-killer-dad-a-murderer-or-just-a-victim-of-drug-effects-26231970.html }
NATHAN ALI had his father's "beautiful, smiling eyes", his mother said. A  happy child, just 20-months old, playing football with his Dad, Yusif Ali Abdi, outside their apartment in The Elms, Clane, Co Kildare. It was Easter Monday, 2001. His mother, 27-year-old Amanda Bailey, looked on from the window upstairs, saw a woman approach,  and thought she had stopped to admire the NATHAN ALI had his father's "beautiful, smiling eyes", his mother said. A happy child, just 20-months old, playing football with his Dad, Yusif Ali Abdi, outside their apartment in The Elms, Clane, Co Kildare. It was Easter Monday, 2001. His mother, 27-year-old Amanda Bailey, looked on from the window upstairs, saw a woman approach, and thought she had stopped to admire the child. Outside, Yusif Ali Abdi was trying to convince the woman he was as much a resident of the place as she claimed to be. She was having none of it - "Clear off, or I'll call the police," she told him. Later, he went to the village to get money for Amanda from the ATM. On the way back, local children followed him, shouting 'nig-nog'. It was the first time it had happened him in Clane, but a daily experience when they lived in Dublin. A course in Finglas became insufferable when, first students and then a tutor, made racist remarks. Encouraged by Amanda's mother, Kay Bailey, Yusif complained to the school, but although an apology was forthcoming, he decided to leave. When she was pregnant with Nathan, Amanda Bailey was spat at while walking on the streets with Yusif. Although she came to believe her husband's persecution complaints were mainly paranoia and delusion, on racism at least, she had seen it herself. But the rest was too much for her. Yusif had taken to accusing her of poisoning him with Stain Devil added to his food. The name 'Red Devil' got to him, because red was "the colour of evil" and "related to blood", he said. He accused her of trying to deport him, although he had refugee status and was safe to stay. He claimed she had phoned the Clonskeagh mosque and told his friends bad things about him. When in early 2001, she finally told him, "Yusif, you're ill", he hit her with a telephone. It was the first time she had ever seen him violent. Normally "quiet", "sensitive" and "gentle", Yusif had turned into a monster. Amanda ran from the house and brought back a local doctor. Yusif claimed later he did not hear the apartment bell. On February 21, she challenged him again, and he pushed her against a wall. She called her parents and left with Nathan. Her husband had taken to locking all internal doors and keeping the curtains closed 24 hours a day. He believed the gardai were following him and that video cameras were trained on the windows. He opened the smoke alarm, believing a camera was concealed inside. He told Amanda to ring Eircom to ask how he would know his phone was being tapped. Her mother, Kay Bailey, and her friend, Niamh O'Connor, later confirmed what they had seen of his strange behaviour. Increasingly, Amanda was spending more nights, and then weeks, at her parents' home in Dundrum, but by no means was the marriage over, she has since made clear. "I was doing it for him, I wanted him to have the space to get better," she told his trial. On April 16, Easter Monday, she took Nathan to visit Yusif. He persuaded her to stay the night. Nathan and Amanda slept in the bedroom, Yusif was sleeping in the living room. At 4am, he awoke automatically. For a former occasional observer of religious routines, he had started to take Islam very seriously. Out went his Bob Marley CDs, to be replaced by the Koran on tape. In came additional prayers, performed nightly in the early hours. That 4am, April 17, on his way to the bathroom to wash, he saw Nathan and Amanda asleep in the bedroom. "All of a sudden I had a feeling, someone came up inside my head and said, 'take him, take him'," he told his trial. He took Nathan, carried him to the living room and locked the door. He was "like a zombie or possessed", he said. Voices told him, "Hit him, hit him." He grabbed his son by the feet and struck him against the kitchen wall. Around three or four times. Nathan died 'rapidly', the State pathologist, Dr John Harbison, later said. His tiny skull was so damaged, his brain could not be removed without post-mortem instruments. Yusif Ali Abdi then washed and took his prayer mat and prayed. He also rang an ambulance, and unlocked the living room door to let Amanda in. And then he lied. He told the ambulance crew and he told gardai that Nathan fell, then he said he couldn't remember, then that he was sleepwalking, and finally, he told doctors at Clover Hill prison that he had heard voices. It was not the first time he had mentioned auditory hallucinations. At appointments in the Mater Psychiatric Unit over a year earlier, he told psychiatrists of hearing "noises inside his head". On Wednesday, 10 jurors believed he was sane at the time of the killing, and convicted him of murder. Two dissented, believing his defence, that he was guilty but insane. At the trial, leading psychiatrists disagreed. Two consultant psychiatrists diagnosed Ali Abdi as schizophrenic, but one from the Central Mental Hospital pronounced him legally sane. All three, however, agreed that the anti-malaria drug Lariam could not be ruled out as a factor in the case. Amanda Bailey traces her husband's increasingly strange behaviour from the time after he returned from a trip to Kenya in November-December 2000. On December 21, he went to his doctor, concerned that he had caught a touch of malaria. His GP prescribed Lariam, 250mg tablets to be taken once a week for five weeks. It was not the first time Ali Abdi had malaria, and apparently not the first time he had taken anti-malaria drugs. But neither was it the first time that the drug traded as Lariam has featured in criminal cases. In a six-week span last summer, four wives of soldiers at Fort Bragg, North Carolina were killed. Two of the four soldiers allegedly responsible then killed themselves. The US Army sent in medical experts to investigate. Three of the four soldiers had reportedly taken Lariam (its generic name is mefloquine) while serving in Afghanistan. Last October, the US Army report said that Lariam was "an unlikely factor" in the deaths, but the investigators were unable to rule it out. In January, another Fort Bragg soldierallegedly tried to strangle his wife after returning from Afghanistan. The United Nations has recommended alternative anti-malaria drugs for soldiers sent to Afghanistan. The British, German and Australian armies all prescribed others, but the US army opted for mefloquine, its malaria drug of choice. Yusif Ali Abdi was 17 when civil war broke out in Somalia, with militia of the dominant clans attacking the Barawa and Bajuni minorities on the east coast. The earliest outbreaks were in the region around Kishmayo, Ali Abdi's hometown. He was taken and tortured. His parents were shot dead, his home burned. Ironically, Canadian peace-keeping troops sent to the region in the early Nineties were prescribed Lariam. In 1993, a group of peace-keeping soldiers tortured and killed a teenage boy who strayed into their compound. The officer leading the group, Col Clayton Matchee, subsequently tried to hang himself. Matchee's wife later alleged that while he was on leave from Somalia she awoke one night to find him trying to strangle her. A Canadian government inquiry found that no link to Lariam could be established "without extensive furtherinvestigation". One Canadian military report stated that peacekeepers aboard a supply ship bound for Somalia reported having hallucinations. One patient developed feelings of paranoia, another reported hearing voices. The ship's doctor suspected a reaction to mefloquine, and prescribed analternative. Lariam was also cited in the recent case of a US marine convicted of the murder of a woman in Charleston, Illinois in 2001. In February this year, defence lawyers argued that Lariam triggered the homicide and that the marine, Anthony Mertz, should be spared the death penalty. In answer to these and other suspected cases linked to Lariam, US manufacturers, Hoffman La Roche, have repeatedly said,"Lariam is not associated with violent, criminal conduct." Speaking to the Sunday Independent, the managing director of Roche Ireland, Mark Rodgers repeated that there was no known causal link with the drug and said, "That remains the company position." He said the company would not comment on specific cases, but he added that following press reports of the Yusif Ali Abdi trial, in compliance with the global drug safety database, Roche Ireland had reported the case "straight away as a suspect adverse event" to the Irish Medicines Board. The head of pharmacology at UCD, Professor Michael Ryan told the Ali Abdi trial that there was "extensive scientific literature" pointing to "a serious incidence" of neuro-psychiatric side effects in 'Normally quiet, sensitive and gentle, Yusif had turned into a monster' some Lariam patients. A 1996 study of travellers in the British Medical Journal found 1 in 140 people suffered side-effects serious enough to stop them carrying out their day-to-day activities. Other studies have added to the concern, with two recent surveys pointing to as high an incidence as one-in-three people suffering psychiatric side-effects. And although Roche Ireland insists it adheres totally to safety timelines, there is reason to be circumspect about Roche's international drug-safety figures. In 1997, the US Food & Drug Administration's New Jersey district office raided the headquarters of Hoffman-La Roche USA and found evidence that Roche had failed to comply with the law requiring it to pass on reported adverse drug reactions within 15 days of receipt of them. In a January 1998 warning letter seen by the Sunday Independent, the FDA told the company that "some reports were not submitted for months, some exceeded years. Some of these late reports were not submitted until after the inspection was concluded." Four examples of Lariam-adverse reactions highlighted in the letter showed that reactions reported to the manufacturer in 1990, 1991 and 1996 were not notified to the FDA until its inspectors moved in 1998. And, as the FDA letter stated, "These are only limited examples" taken from both the US and other countries. The Irish Medicines Board said it had received 48 reports of adverse drug reaction since Lariam was licenced in 1989, of which 35 would be considered serious. The IMB confirmed it had reports of abnormal dreams, paranoia and psychosis. It has also received two reports of suicidal ideation (thoughts) and one report of suicide. The Irish support group for people affected with Lariam has pointed to a 1996 study that showed that as little as 10 per cent of adverse reactions are reported to GPs or manufacturers in Ireland. It says that intending travellers at Irish vaccination clinics should be told about the dangers of Lariam and that 'safer' alternative drugs are on the market. The head of pharmacology at UCD, Professor Michael Ryan, told the Yusif Ali Abdi trial that since July 2002, Roche in the USA warns that Lariam "may cause psychiatric symptoms in a number of patients, ranging from anxiety, paranoia and depression to hallucinations and psychotic behaviour." The Roche USA warning states: "On occasion, these symptoms have been reported to continue long after mefloquine has been stopped." It says that patients with active depression or a recent history of depression, generalised anxiety disorder, psychosis or schizophrenia or major psychiatric disorders should not be prescribed Lariam. Since 1999, Roche USA also warns, "Rare cases of suicidal ideation (thoughts) and suicide have been reported though no relationship to drug administration has been confirmed." In its statement, the Irish Medicines Board said that it is amending the licence for Lariam "following detailed deliberations with Roche". The new patient leaflet information will include that warning about suicide. But Mefloquine Action Ireland said the warnings are weaker than those appearing in the equivalent USA material and that it regretted that more recent research showing that 30 per cent of people who take the drug suffer neuropsychiatric side effects is not included. It said it was "very disappointing" that no additional information is given about psychiatric symptoms which, according to the US warning, "continue long after the drug has been stopped". "Many people who contact the Irish support group have been very sick for months and in some cases years after taking Lariam," the spokesperson said. Yusif Ali Abdi blamed racism for his conviction for murder last Wednesday. His wife Amanda Bailey also turned to anger immediately after the verdict. Turning to the jury, she said, "I hope you're happy with yourselves." There is no way of knowing if prejudice and racism did play a partin the jury's finding, but the trial of Yusif Ali Abdi and the death of baby Nathan leaves more questions than that unanswered. Up until last Wednesday, Ali Abdi was in the Central Mental Hospital and was daily receiving anti-schizophrenic, anti-psychotic drugs. But the Central Mental Hospital said the drugs were prescribed as sedatives, not as treatment for psychosis. As he settles into Mountjoy prison, his lawyers are preparing an appeal. The Irish support group for people affected by Lariam can be contacted at: Mefloquine@ireland.com 
