drugs
{ JEROME O'REILLY 
    June 19 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/viagra-the-hard-sell-26184433.html }
It's the aphrodisiac for the 21st century and already here some business people are preparing to cash in on the extraordinary demand. Even before it's licensed here, Irish people are getting it via the internet for £15 a pill In Waterford city Nick Mangakis, who styles himself as a ``commodities dealer,'' spotted the business potential of Viagra on the Irish market soon after the US launch of the drug on March 27. He found a bonded warehouse in Florida and set the wheels in motion to become `Acting Agent' for a drug which claims to have the power to turn an anxious under-performer into an accomplished lover with stamina to match. His company BSM (Import/Export) would not be physically handling the goods but interested parties were welcome to fly to Miami to inspect the goods on site as long they held a pharmaceutical licence and showed proof of financial capacity. Minimum order was to be 100 cases, as a fax from BSM (Import/Export) reproduced here shows. In each case were 24 packets, each pack containing 30 tablets with a price of just below $10 for each blue, diamond-shaped tablet. But while the world has gone Viagra crazy, Nick's far sighted vision of the business potential of Viagra has so far fallen on less than fertile ground. He says he was unaware when he set up the deal that the drug is still not licensed in Ireland. ``I haven't sold any so far in Ireland. It is not licensed and so I have done nothing with it. I did not advertise it so I didn't get any inquiries anyway. I didn't push it,'' Mr Mangakis said this week. Mr Mangakis admits he will be resurrecting his business idea when the drug is eventually licensed here and is hoping ``to bring it in through the proper channels.'' He is one of a number of people who are positioning themselves in the market place for the time that Viagra is fully licensed not just here but throughout the EU. But that doesn't mean that Viagra isn't already in Ireland in some quantities, and it is safe to predict a lucrative black market will also emerge here. The international trends point towards a burgeoning under-the-counter culture for the love drug. Men and now women from all walks of Irish life who have access to the internet have been buying it via the Cyber shops for £15 a pill four times the US price. We are not alone. The drug intended to cure, or at least treat, male impotence is the talk of the chattering classes from Bombay to Boston. Healthy young men want to experiment. They seek the ultimate sexual thrills of making love longer and up to four or five times a night after a single dose. And it's also emerged that more and more women are also taking the drug, which also increases sexual response in the female. Though it was never intended for such use by healthy individuals, men and women alike are ignoring safety considerations in the feverish quest for sexual highs. It appears that Viagra is no longer a medicine but an aphrodisiac for the 21st century. Recently one internet company which admitted it had received many enquiries from the Republic, was also charging an additional £50 per order for a compulsory but slightly dubious on-line consultation with a `cyber doctor' on the World Wide Web. The same company, based in the UK, then changed its modus operandi following adverse publicity. It began offering a financial inducement of £100 a time to Irish GPs if they gave patients a prescription for Viagra which the individual then used to buy a bulk order of the so-called wonder pills via the net. The Irish College of General Practitioners (ICGP) warned against the growing trend of internet medicine. Dr Michael Coughlan said the offering of inducements was unethical and fraught with danger. ``I believe it very unlikely that any Irish doctor would be party to this type of arrangement which runs directly contrary to the ethos of general medicine'', he said. The company warned potential purchasers that they must obtain a prescription from their doctor. But they added: ``Purchase Viagra and we will pay for your doctor's Prescription.'' Offering bulk orders (90 pills or more at £15 per tablet) the company adds: ``On receipt of your doctor's prescription, we will pay directly to your doctor £100 Sterling towards your medical consultation.'' Dr Coughlan of the ICGP said he was increasingly concerned about the offering of pharmacuticals via the internet. ``A large number of companies are also offering very spurious medical treatments. There is a general lack of regulation on the internet and we have been pressing for some time for individual countries to take a lead in this and look seriously at regulation.'' In the US the little blue pill is setting records. More than 1.7m prescriptions have been filled since March in the States alone. It's also licensed and available in Mexico and Brazil and Morocco. In most EU countries it should be approved by October, while South Africa and Thailand can expect Viagra later this summer.
 Global availability by 2,000 is the target for its manufacturers, Pfizer, who have already seen their share price double on the back of its latest product and who manufacture one of the key active ingredients, though not the actual pills, in Cork. The drug works by improving the flow of blood to the groin and has been highly successful in clinical trials, with 70pc of patients suffering from impotence reporting beneficial results., Pfizer, an ultra conservative company whose brands include TCP antiseptic, have done their best to stop the explosion in underground trafficking but it is now outside their control. They have warned consistently that no-one should take Viagra without proper medical supervision, but those pleas have been ignored. You are now as likely to find Viagra in the international night club scene from the heart of Europe to the Far East, although there is no evidence yet of the drug's infiltration in any great amounts among Dublin clubbers. Women are also on Viagra saying that the improved blood supply can heighten sexual responsiveness, and a specific orgasm pill for women is being researched. Other pharmacutical companies are working round the clock to to bring out their own version, but Pfizer has catapulted itself from relative anonymity to worldwide recognition in just three months look set to dominate the market into the millennium. In Hong Kong black marketeers have found a ready market for the drug at $77 a tablet ten times the going rate at discount drug outlets in the US. Old men, young men and bored housewives seeking multiple orgasms are all anxious to try this supposed elixir of youth, virility and happiness. Underground chemists linked with the Triads are manufacturing their own version making a fortune before the drug is officially licensed at the end of the year. In Europe, Italian police swooped in a bid to stop alleged Viagra trafficking. Two women and a man who are suspected of trying to sell the drug for £150 per pill were arrested in Naples. There is also evidence that much of black market drugs are fakes the ultimate deflating experience. It is available with a specialist's prescription in some European states, notably Andorra and and San Marino, leading to a healthy cross-border trade with the French, Spanish and Italians developing a sudden desire to travel to the postage stamp states. In a bid to beat the worrying underground trade some countries, like Thailand, are rushing through their normal drug-approval procedures to at least ensure that the potency pill is available after medical examination and a prescription, rather than in shops, bars and street corners. Canada has not yet given the drug approved status so Canadians with a prescription are going across the border to Vermont where the Viagra trade is responsible for a minor economic boom. Healthy young Californians with no sexual dysfunction are heading south to Tijuana, and this week Newsweek reported that 24 Japanese men spent a total of about £1,000 each for 30 tablets apiece on a three-day trip which included medical examinations and hotels. Senior psychologists suggest that many healthy men who use the drug for recreational purposes are selfishly feeding their own male egos by acting out juvenile fantasies of being a stud. This week it was also alleged that an 89-year-old man in Orlando, Florida, hit a young woman with a crowbar when she rejected his Viagra-fuelled sex demands. This raises the awful spectre that a drug which has the power to cure the crushing psychological blow of impotence, could also be abused in a deeply damaging way. Can it be too far away before the first reports emerge of Viagra being `an accessory' in sex crimes against women or children? For now, Viagra is putting a smile on the face of the Celtic Tiger here at home. Record sales of the drug contributed to the huge rise in the value of exports in the first quarter. The country's net exports of organic chemicals, where Viagra is classified, increased by a massive 61pc to more than £1bn compared with the same period last year.  It's a huge boost for the workers in Ringaskiddy who, with typical Cork wit, have christened Viagra ``the Pfizer-rizer.'' 
