drugs
{  
    November 04 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/sex-drugs-and-bullets-26103404.html }
Their lifestyles were funded by drug money. Their days were  spent smoking crack cocaine. Their Viagra-fuelled nights  were spent with prostitutes. In many ways, the lives of the three Irishmen who died in a hail of bullets in a squalid apartment near The Hague were headed one direction: to  tragedy. When Dutch firemen broke into the luxury apartment containing three Irish corpses, they came across a scene which bore all the hallmarks of 21st century debauchery. Around the cluttered livingroom were strewn guns, ammunition, cocaine, ecstasy and viagra. The seaside apartment just outside The Hague was well-known for its drugs and sex parties, with dealers, prostitutes and assorted low-life of every kind frequent visitors. Like characters from Pulp Fiction, the three young Irishmen killed there Vincent Costello, Damien Monaghan and Morgan Costello seemed destined for an apocalyptic fate. Their chaotic and squalid lifestyle drew them ever downwards as they attempted to become major players in the international drugs business. In the end, their ambition became their undoing. Embracing the vices tolerated by Dutch society, they moved easily among its netherworld a long way from Tipperary and Clare. Into this life stepped their killers, Mike Braxhoofden and Ronald Van Bommel, two young men whose backgrounds couldn't be more different. As the parties, prostitutes and drugs got more out of control, the costs spiralled apart from the £800 a month they were paying for the apartment, the residents' cocaine habit was a monster that took at least £2,000 a week to feed. For years, the partnership of Vincent Costello and Damien Monahan had built up a drugs smuggling operation between Ireland and the Netherlands. Costello, aged 29 from Bansha, Co Tipperary, handled the Irish side of things. A former Dutch resident, he was now mainly based in Ireland. Costello boasted a wide circle of friends and was part of a close family. None of them knew that he also had a serious heroin problem. Dutch police had forced him to register in Amsterdam for possession of the drug. In Scheveningen, Damien 'Monie' Monahan (24) from Ennis, Co Clare moved among the Dutch criminal classes. A crack cocaine addict, he rarely left his fifth floor apartment, except to visit the local Chinese take-away or a nearby off-licence. His killer, Mike Braxhoofden, described him as his best friend. But the fast pace was spiralling out of control and went really crazy when Braxhoofden (22) moved into the apartment earlier this year. Described by psychiatrists as a deviant thrill-seeker, he comes from a family were his father, uncle and brother-in-law have all died violently. He was also accused of killing his mother's partner when he was 15. Psychiatrists report that the reason he formed such a strong bond with 'Monie' was because they both lost their fathers at a young age. He moved in with Monaghan following a beating at the home of his pregnant girlfriend. His accomplice, Ronald Von Bommel, comes from a family riddled with alcohol abuse. He was totally dominated by Braxhoofden and has low intelligence, according to experts. In court last week, they sat side-by-side, answering questions in a relaxed tone, but were clearly more concerned at their imminent prison sentences than the death of their friends. Among this motley crew, "Monie" was the closest to a leader. It was to him that both Vincent Costello and Mike Braxhoofden turned for guidance. The gang's behaviour was no secret to Dutch or Irish police. Both forces were familiar with the personalities, while at least one mobile phone, belonging to Braxhoofden, was tapped by the Dutch. Nor were their neighbours in the Oranje flats complex in Scheveningen, an upmarket seaside town just outside The Hague, under any illusions. They had seen a flow of human debris disappearing into the noisy apartment on the fifth floor. When they complained, they were told where to go, in no uncertain terms. During their two-day trial in a Hague courtroom this week, Ronald Von Bommel and Mike Braxhoofden tried to shift the blame ironically seeking to portray themselves as victims, sucked into a world already frequented by 'Monie' and Vincent Costello. Braxhoofden described Monahan as his best friend, but insisted this was where he first learned to smoke crack cocaine. "He gave me some drugs, sometimes a base pipe. Then he explained how to do it, but not the consequences, otherwise I wouldn't have started it," he told the court. As Monahan's mother and other relatives sat in the court, she heard an unfamiliar and unwelcome version of her son's lifestyle and friends. To back up his claim that he was corrupted by Monaghan, Braxhoofden's lawyer read statements of former visitors to the flat, including well-known Dutch criminals and prostitutes. "I was there so often, there was always weed and cocaine," said one prostitute. Another described the apartment as a scene of perpetual chaos, while a third recounted having sex there with a dark man named as 'Ali' who accused her of stealing drugs. In his statement, 'Ali' told police the group living in the apartment had just lost about 5,000 guilders or almost £2,000 on drugs. "Monie always had a lot of money, but others related to him were caught in Ireland," he stated. "Monie told me twice about two consignments of pills that were caught and he had a lot of money staked on it," another witness said. Perhaps the most ominous visitor to the flat was well-known Irish criminal John Cunningham. A police report from the detective leading the investigation, Inspector André Teiwes, informed the Court's public prosecutor that Cunningham had been seen visiting the apartment. "According to information from Amsterdam police, they had in the past followed two Irishmen with a consignment to the aforementioned flat in Scheveningen. These people had left material at the address of the victims. One of the men, subsequently held, was John Cunningham." Cunningham is currently facing trial in the Netherlands on separate, drug-related charges. Although his presence in Scheveningen indicates the circles that 'Monie' and Vincent Costello had contact with, police believe Cunningham has no connection with the murder. "This is purely a local story, there is no sign of others involved. We followed that line of inquiry and found nothing," Inspector Teiwes told me. Sadly, Vincent's younger brother, Morgan (21) was also becoming enmeshed in the same world and, although visiting his brother, he was due to carry 10,000 ecstasy tablets back to Ireland. He was also believed to be involved in plans for a furniture deal, planned by the gang. "They were planning to smuggle the drugs back to Ireland and sell them at an upcoming outdoor music event. They also discussed plans for a furniture business, but we suspect that was a cover for further drug deals," said Dutch detectives involved in the investigation. On the night of the murders, the party was in full swing. But Braxhoofden's grip on reality began to fray. Insisting he'd only dabbled in drugs before, his crack habit and his paranoia got of control in the weeks leading up to the triple murder. On one occasion, he was convinced a black plastic bag was someone hiding in the flat's living room. Braxhoofden claims that towards the end of his deadly binge, he was consuming up to 100 grammes of cocaine a day. However, Dutch police privately disputed anyone's ability to use so much and survive. They estimate the flat's residents were consuming at least 100 grammes a week, which at around 50 guilders a gramme, comes to 5000 Dutch guilders, or nearly £1,800 a week. Braxhoofden also told police he took so much crack he often didn't sleep for four or five days at a time and would take four rohypnol tablets just to grab a short nap. Most people are knocked out after a single pill of the drug, notorious for its use in date rapes. He was also a sex addict, taking crack and Viagra to boost his sex drive and then calling up prostitutes to satiate his desire. Guns also loomed large in the their lives. Braxhoofden rarely left the apartment without a firearm, while Monie was also involved in looking after their arsenal. Around five guns were found in the apartment by police, including an array of ammunition that was strewn throughout the flat perhaps by the killers as they later tried to blow up the crime scene with a gas explosion. There are certainly unanswered questions about the drugs, money and possible motive of the killers, but the final moments of Vincent, Morgan and Damien now seem clear. In one bedroom, Damien Monahan was playing on the internet while the Costello brothers sat nearby. In a second bedroom, Braxhoofden was raving deliriously to Von Bommel, claiming he had heard the three Irishmen plotting their murder. He said he overheard Vincent Costello say he would "feed him to the fishes" when they visited Ireland. Although 'Monie' was his best friend, his relations with Vincent Costello were cooler, and he believed Costello had ripped him off in a deal to sell 10,000 ecstasy tablets for 25,000 guilders, or just under £10,000. As his temper flew out of control, he tried to talk to 'Monie' and asked him to come downstairs so they could talk privately in the cellar. But 'Monie', smoking a pipe of crack cocaine, was intent on his computer. "Stay calm, stay calm," he told his Dutch friend. But Braxhoofden thought he was simply buying time for Vincent Costello and stalked from the room. Demanding back-up from his Dutch stooge, Braxhoofden taped a gun to his arm then turned both the TV and the stereo up to full volume in the living room. Like a scene from a Quentin Tarantino movie, he returned and immediately opened fire. The first shot didn't go off, but then he hit first Morgan then Vincent Costello in the head. Damien Monahan lunged for the gun, screaming his final words: "My God, what are you doing?" Braxhoofden shot him, then returned to the other room and took a second gun from Von Bommel. He shot all three again, leaving their bodies shattered with enormous wounds from the high-calibre weapons. "He had just shot his best friend and just stood there laughing about it," Von Bommel said in court. He recalled how after shooting his friend, Braxhoofden finished Monahan's half-smoked cocaine pipe. But the crescendo of bloodshed wasn't over yet. Von Bommel turned on Costello's body and stabbed him through the neck, causing enormous bloodloss, indicating he was still alive. Their attempts to dismember the bodies failed miserably, with Braxhoofden vomiting all over the corpses. Over a further two days the pair thought about how they'd hide the bodies. For stimulation, they turned to even more crack cocaine and prostitutes. While they were having sex, the bodies of the three Irishmen were hidden in the kitchen. Eventually, they decided to burn the bodies and blow up the apartment. They dumped the bodies in the bath, doused them with petrol and cut the gas pipe in the kitchen. They also covered the apartment in fireworks and ammunition to ensure it caught fire. If they had succeeded, hundreds of other residents were at risk. At 4.0am on April 29, the Dutch fire brigade made their grim discovery, at first believing they'd found the remains of just two bodies. It took weeks before their identities were confirmed. Although the thorough and professional job of André Teiwes and his team was praised both by the court and by the Monahan and Costello families, there are still unanswered questions. These are issues the police either can't or are reluctant to resolve, for fear of opening up a Pandora's Box of further conspiracies. Apart from pure paranoia, did Mike Braxhoofden have reason to believe his Irish friends wanted to "feed him to the fishes"? Or was his alleged paranoia merely a cover for other motives behind the shooting? It's clear that sometime last year things started to go wrong. Certainly there was the usual chaos in Scheveningen, but drugs and money were missing in Ireland. One witness told how Monaghan's Irish gang had been arrested while another told of two lost consignments of pills. We also have the unreliable testimony of Braxhoofden and Von Bommel to explain the sequence of events. Since the bodies were so badly burnt, it's difficult for pathologists to be certain, but there appears to be an inconsistency over the death of Vincent Costello. If he died in a hail of gunfire, then why did Von Bommel stab him so viciously, leaving an enormous pool of blood afterwards? Could the stabbing have happened first? And if so,were all three killed together at the same time, as alleged? Sadly, the only people who could tell the truth lie buried in their home towns. It will be another two weeks before the court delivers its verdict, while the appeal process will drag on for years as Braxhoofden and Van Bommel seek to reduce lengthy sentences. Nevertheless the dark underbelly of the Netherlands will continue to consume and destroy thousands of young people from across Europe looking for the new promised land of drugs and money. It's also a country that, so far this year, has claimed the lives of 80 young Irish people in tragic circumstances. For the Monahan and Costello families, the only comfort they can take is that perhaps, their sons' deaths will serve as a warning to others tempted into the lurid world of organised crime and easy money. 
