drugs
{ TV REVIEW by JOHN BOLAND 
    June 22 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/woman/celeb-news/quick-fixes-and-slow-deaths-26084453.html }
Thirty years ago, in a famous essay, Gore Vidal offered a  brisk, no-nonsense solution to the problem of drug  addiction in the United States  make all drugs available  and sell them at cost. This, he argued, would immediately wipe out criminality "because if drugs are sold at cost, there would be no money in it for anyone. If there was no money in it for the Mafia, there would be no friendly playground pushers, and addicts would not commit crimes to pay for the next fix". There would, he conceded, still be users. "Some people will always become drug addicts just as some people will always become alcoholics, and it is just too bad. Every man, however, has the power (and should have the legal right) to kill himself if he chooses. But since most men don't, they won't be mainliners either. Nevertheless, forbidding people things they like or think they might enjoy only makes them want those things all the more. This psychological insight is, for some mysterious reason, perennially denied our governors." I would be surprised if Nick Davies hasn't read Vidal's essay because on Drugs: The Phoney War (Channel 4), he adopted the same argument about criminality and expressed it in terms that were even more trenchant. In an engrossing and provocative film full of startling soundbites, he began with the declaration that "every war has its casualties. Of course, it has often been said that the first casualty of war is the truth, and in the war against drugs, we lost touch with the truth a long time ago". The truth, as perceived and argued by Davies, is that politicians who support and promote the £1.7 billion spent annually in Britain on the prohibition of drugs "have created the very problems they claim to be solving" and that this is because "beneath the military rhetoric and the expense, there's one great big lie". The lie, according to Davies, is the insistence by politicians that drugs are deadly when, in fact, it's the black market's peddling of them that's the killer. And to illustrate his thesis, he didn't bother with softs drugs like cannabis, which many people think should be legalised, but with heroin, whose very name is generally regarded as a synonym for degradation and evil. Backed up by medical research, Davies convincingly argued that heroin in its pure form and in reasonable dosages doesn't damage either the mind or body of its user, that it's less harmful to the body than sugar and that even an overdose of it is less likely to kill you than an overdose of paracetamol. But do addicts usually get heroin in its pure form? No, they don't, and this is because it's been outlawed and is largely unobtainable except through criminals, who cut and dilute it in such a way that the user doesn't know what he's taking. To prove his point, he took the case of Bernard, who for the last five years has been legally prescribed diamorphine (an opiate with the same properties and effects as heroin) to lessen the pain of his bone cancer. "If you believed politicians," Davies said, "he should be a walking zombie," but he isn't. However, since the law was changed in the late 1960s, very few doctors in Britain are allowed to prescribe opiates for their patients, and this, Davies argued, means that what should be monitored has fallen into the hands of gangsters. "There is no drug," he said, "which becomes safer when you hand over its production to criminals". Furthermore, he went on, the official, government-backed war on drugs has been reduced to a war against drug users, and that's a war against a large proportion of the adult population four out of 10 young men, according to statistics and one that's also unwinnable, given that anyone who really wants or needs to acquire drugs will always be able to get them. And with ease, too. "You can get heroin delivered to your door quicker than a pizza," he was told and he proved that by asking an addict to leave his house at 11am and return when he'd arranged and received his fix the addict was back with his heroin in 10 minutes. And, Davies continued, continuing to make drugs illegal only encourages social exclusion, with users so obsessed with chasing their fix that they lose their jobs and their homes and resort to crime, thus harming the general community. He summed up his thesis thus: "With a strategy built on a lie, politicians around the world have denied drug users the safe supply of the drug to which they're addicted. They've created a black market which relentlessly inflicts the kind of damage they say they want to prevent. Their policies have imposed a crime boom on the very communities they claim to be protecting and have attacked and maimed and killed the very people they claim to be helping." His solution was that doctors in general should be legally permitted to prescribe pure heroin to addicts and that this would make the drug much safer and also wipe out criminality. It was a bit simplistic, somewhat misunderstanding the anti-establishment nature of much addiction and oblivious, too, of some basic facts how, for instance, would new users (and there will always be new users) get hold of the drug if doctors could only prescribe it to existing addicts? But there's no doubt that the current official policy towards drugs in most countries of the world is doing nothing to combat an unwinnable war indeed, is exacerbating the problem instead. And Davies's essential points seem to me blindingly true. But will governments, pandering to the prejudices they've fostered, ever choose to see it that way? No, they won't. Two excellent arts documentaries added lustre to the week's viewing. I was in Andalucia when the first part of Picasso: Magic, Sex and Death (Channel 4) was screened and so missed its account of the artist's early years in that province of Spain, but I caught up with it in its second instalment, which detailed his middle years and stormy love life, and was well rewarded. Presented by his long-time friend, John Richardson, it interwove the personal and artistic very persuasively and brought real insights to the paintings it chose to dwell on. Like Madonna, Picasso spent his career constantly reinventing himself, but you were left in no doubt that you were in the presence of a great artist, which is not quite how I regard Madonna, especially in her current Guy Richie phase, though she would have made a flamboyant lover for Picasso. I look forward to tomorrow night's final programme. The Trials of Ulysses, screened by Network 2 on Bloomsday, began in Trieste, the city I'd intended visiting before I somehow got waylaid and found myself in Andalucia instead. I've wanted to go to Trieste ever since reading John McCourt's enthralling book, The Years of Bloom, which was published by Lilliput last year and which persuasively argues the importance of that exotic city in Joyce's artistic development, and I want to go even more after watching the loving evocation of it in The Trials of Ulysses. The rest of the film was absorbing, too, even if it tried to tackle too many aspects of the book and of Joyce's life to be properly focused. But the contributions by John McCourt, Kevin Barry, Fritz Senn, Brenda Maddox, Vivien Igoe and Ken Monaghan were always interesting and the general approach by scriptwriter and narrator Bruce Arnold was both intelligent and accessible. My brain was obviously on the blink last week when I accused Brian Reddin, producer-director of The Selection Box (Network 2), of being the person who had previously brought us Wanderlust. My apologies to him for that dreadful slur and also, I suppose, my apologies to Wanderlust's Brendan Courtney for indirectly suggesting that he might have had some connection with The Selection Box. No space at all left to consider the Panorama film about the 1982 massacres in which Israel's current prime minister, Ariel Sharon, was complicit in two Palestinian refugee camps. In another week, this would have been the main programme under review and perhaps it should be this week, too. Fergal Keane's presentation of the facts was exemplary and the film left you feeling very angry. 
