drugs
{ Simon Barnes 
    December 19 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/soccer/why-ferdinand-must-get-two-year-ban-25919231.html }
DO we want drugs in sport? That is the only question worth asking as the Rio Ferdinand  hearing completes its first day. There will be thousands of other questions asked but that  is the only one that matters. All the others are flumdiddle. Did he forget, or did he do a bunk? Had he been taking a drug and needed time to clear it? Is he a liar or an idiot? Who did he ring on his mobile phone and why? Was it just the pressure of moving house? Or was it something more sinister? All these questions are irrelevant. I can solve this case myself, here and now. I don't need any more evidence. I have all the evidence I need. Rio Ferdinand, I believe you failed to take a drugs test. Quite correct. Then you are banned for two years. Sorry and all that, but that's the rules. Well, that's the rules in athletics, in swimming, in rowing, in judo, in all the heartland Olympic sports. If you are serious about drugs in sport, you have to be serious about drug-testing. Nobody has been serious about drug-testing in this case. Therefore all of those involved deserve punishment. That is to say, Rio Ferdinand, Manchester United, the FA and FIFA. Why did United let Ferdinand get off the premises without checking that he had taken his test? If we are to admit a second question into this case, that is the one. There can be only two possible reasons, since Manchester United knew that the testers were on the premises. Either they let Ferdinand go by mistake or they did it on purpose. If it was a mistake, it was the most appallingly sloppy thing for a vast money-making organisation to do. It was absurdly slipshod, cringe-makingly amateur. Did nobody take responsibility? Who should have done so? Well, who has overall responsibility for the footballers who play for Manchester United? I believe it is a man called Alex Ferguson. If this is really a case about sloppiness, it is sloppiness over an investment of £30m. Sloppiness on that kind of scale is a resignation matter at the very least. In most industries, it is a sackable offence. But perhaps it wasn't criminal sloppiness, perhaps it was conspiracy. Perhaps Manchester United had reasons for wanting to get Ferdinand off the premises before he could pee into a cup. I don't, of course, suggest that this was the case, merely that it is a possibility, on the known facts. It is something that the hearing should sort out. The defence in the case comes to this: gee, sorry guys, I guess we messed up a little, but we really didn't mean it. Well, forgive me for not being impressed. The fact that such a defence is seriously offered is the clearest possible demonstration that professional football has never taken dope-testing with any degree of seriousness whatsoever. Until now. This seems to be a landmark case. That is why it is worth making the effort of getting it right. And it comes down to that single overwhelming question: do we want drugs in sport or not? Far better to hush everything up and pretend there's no problem. Far better to have a half-arsed testing programme carried out in a half-arsed manner. That way you are far less likely to create any scandal. But in time, such a policy will get found out. And now it has happened. Football has not yet signed up with the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). FIFA and WADA are "in negotiation." The only other leading sport not signed up with WADA is cycling, the sport that did for performance-enhancing drugs what Hunter S Thompson did for recreational drugs. The complication here is that football is an Olympic sport and therefore needs to stand alongside sports such as athletics, swimming and rowing as being serious about drugs. This it has manifestly failed to do. Apparently it is all right for millionaires to be cavalier about drugs, particularly if they are worth tens of millions to billionaire organisations. Throw the book at some penniless, sweating weightlifter, sure, but you must take a much gentler line with a poor millionaire such as Ferdinand. And that, you see, is why all these other questions come showering down on us. For the case is not really about drugs at all; it is about a huge investment by a huge organisation, one that can afford the snazziest brand of lawyer. And as the wise man once said: when corporate lawyer come in door, morality jump out window forgetting trousers. The case, as it is tried, is not about drugs. It is about corporate heft and legal feistiness, along with the delaying tactics, the question of appeals and always the threat of taking the case to the civil courts. Every possible complication will be brought in. But you see, all the complications are there to cover up the essential question. And do we want drugs in our sport? Ferdinand's intentions are not an issue, any more than intention is an issue when you clatter someone in the penalty area. Perhaps you meant, in your heart of hearts, to get the ball. So what? You brought him down: penalty. Ferdinand committed an offence by failing to take a drugs test. He should be punished by being banned for two years. He will get away with a fair bit less and will feel aggrieved, victimised. He should drop on his knees and give thanks that he is not a penniless weightlifter or an unknown judo fighter. United need to be punished even more than Ferdinand. Banning Ferdinand for two years will cover that because they lose on their investment as well as missing out on his skills. In my view, Ferguson should be hounded out of his job for this appalling and embarrassing situation. The FA and FIFA deserve to be punished for soft-pedalling the drugs issue for so long. The case itself is punishment enough, because it makes them both look so foolish. Football has lost a great deal of credibility as a result of all this, at local and at international level. It is time that football made a fresh start on the drugs issue. By trying to avoid bad publicity about drugs for so long, the sport can sell itself under a new slogan. No doubt the verdict, expected later today, will add a bit more oomph to this slogan. So, let's hear it for football: the sport that's soft on drugs. © The Times, London 
