drugs
{ Simon Barnes 
    October 23 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/sport/pill-popping-to-win-and-to-go-beyond-human-limitations-25927707.html }
One pill makes you larger And one pill makes you small. And the ones that Mother gives you Don't do anything at all. THIS is from one of the great psychedelic anthems, Grace Slick's White Rabbit. (It ends, as Hunter S Thompson's attorney tells us, on "that fantastic note when the rabbit bites its own head off"). Or, to put it another way, let's all get serious about drugs. As opposed to getting weird, hysterical, or as opposed to convincing ourselves that everybody in sport is frothing at the mouth with designer steroids and, just as soon as the boffins have finished, we'll have a complete Who's Who of sporting junkies. Instead, let us look at two constants in human behaviour. One is the urge to go beyond oneself; the other is a willingness to ingest a substance that gets you there. Vignette: The Matobo Hills in Zimbabwe. Black eagles overhead, naturally. A cleft in the rock. In ruddy, earthy colours, matchstick men leap and dance and around them are eland and rhinoceros, drawn with a fluency of line that Picasso would envy. Some of the men had no heads at all, others had heads that were exploding. Why? The belief is that the dancers were out of their heads, in a trance state. Perhaps they got there by smoking dope or eating fermented fruit. Or perhaps it was starvation, hyperventilation, the self-hypnosis of rhythm and repeated song. No matter. Either way they had sought to go beyond themselves. And as such, five thousand years later, they are kin with Ben Johnson and with those who have taken THG. You didn't think Johnson was just cheating, did you? Not at all. He was trying to go Beyond. He was trying to travel outside his own limits, just like the spirit dancers. He wanted to fulfil his immense physical potential, he wanted to be a champion, he wanted to be the fastest man in history. And he was. There was nothing trivial about the business. Johnson wanted to be the best. He believed that in order to compete - in order to win - at the highest level, drugs were essential. The only way to get the edge over drug-takers is to take drugs, after all. Let us compare the Olympic Games with Transcendental Meditation. The Olympics demand that competitors seek to go citius, altius, fortius: faster, higher, stronger. Many have got there with the help of a drug. The Maharishi Mahesh Yogi only promised altius. His meditation technique would, he promised, get you higher than dope. But plenty found, like Johnson, that certain substances get you higher faster. And so much less effort. The idea of going Beyond seems to be part of the human condition. It seems to be more or less innate. Vignette: A child rolls down a hill. Staggering, deliciously dizzy, he lurches back to the top of the slope for another roll. If you like, another toke. Another vignette: it is the same child's birthday party. There is jelly on the ceiling and the house is trashed as a dozen little pals lose all control. They are on a sugar-high. For a child, sugar is a mind-expanding drug. That's why they crave it: it takes them Beyond. Vignette: Peter and I are in the White Horse, talking village gossip, green politics, sport, stories of our misspent youth. In order to do it better - to go beyond our daily selves - we drink beer. The evening is better so. Vignette: Emboldened by beer, a young man invites a girl to his house for a drink. Inflamed by Glenmorangie, he makes a pass. She, similarly affected, accepts. Talk about going beyond oneself. Reader, I married her. Drugs are part of our lives, and they help us to go beyond our normal limits. Sport is often compared to a drug. Well, why not? The best thing about sport is the powerful emotions it stirs up, the way we forget about the pressing problems of life as we get caught up in the thrilling meaninglessness of sport. Victory takes us beyond ourselves to a delighted state. Losing casts us down but at least the feeling is intense and to be relished. As Albert Camus said: "After all, that was why I loved my team so much, not only for the joy of victory, so wonderful when it is combined with the weariness that follows exertion, but also for the stupid desire to cry on the evenings when we had lost." Taking part in sport makes the going beyond better. This is because of the physical effects of sport: the endorphin rush, or runner's high, and the visceral fear that is an ineluctable part of the more-dangerous-the-better kinds of sport. It follows, then, that drugs will be as much a part of sport as they are every other aspect of life. Victory is the biggest buzz of all, perhaps; and drugs can help to take you there. Drugs, then, are part of the fabric of our lives, and so is sport. Both have at their heart this atavistic human urge to go beyond oneself, to reach beyond the limits and to experience strong sensations and powerful emotions. Drugs are not exceptional, they are not shocking; they are merely inevitable. Steroids are dangerous; alcohol is lethal if taken in quantity on a regular basis. One can help you to go faster; the other can help you to enjoy life more. Both can be wreckers of lives. The breakthrough in THG testing is cheering, even if (or perhaps I mean because) we will have to face some unpalatable facts about people. But let us not go overboard: we are not about to uncover a global omnisport conspiracy of designer drugging. And rest assured that this will not be an end of it. Now that THG can be detected, they will come up with something else, some other cheap-day return to the infinite, some other cut-price ticket to the places that lie Beyond. Let us give up being shocked by drugs. Let us stop going into a swoon every time the word "drug" is mentioned. One man's drug is, after all, another man's half of bitter; any Muslim will tell you that. Let us accept that human beings will always seek to go Beyond. And let us accept that drugs are a way of getting there: sometimes acceptable, pleasant, amusing, life-enhancing; sometimes dangerous, unacceptable, illegal. And always quicker. FOOTNOTE: this column was written under the influence of drugs. The author took two Nurofen tablets and successfully defeated a poisonous headache. He was intending to take more drugs in the course of the day, believing that a bottle of champagne always helps an evening to go Beyond. © The Times, London 
