drugs
{ Tom Brady 
    October 06 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/report-nails-myth-that-drugs-more-accessible-in-jail-26030031.html }
A EUROPEAN report on drugs has nailed the  myth that drugs are more accessible for addicts inside prison than outside. Senior prison officials here say the report confirms their findings based on research carried out in Irish jails last year. The report, produced by the European monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, disclosed that most drug users tended to stop or cut down after being locked up because they could not obtain the drugs. But it admitted that other prisoners continued to use drugs - some to an even greater extent. Drug use inside prison, according to the survey carried out in all EU countries was reported to be up to 54pc of inmates while 36pc of them said they used drugs regularly. The report also indicated that up to 26pc of drug users in prison had their first experience while in custody. There were also greater dangers in jail from sharing drugs and injecting material. And while acknowledging the difficulty in getting drugs inside, it noted that "anything" was available for payment with prices estimated at two to four times higher than on the streets. "This makes drugs for prisoners 10-12 more times more expensive in spending power terms", the report added. "Drug trading within prison is far more distressing than outside, leading to intimidation, bullying and criminality." The prison authorities here have recruited over 60 qualified nurses to administer methadone maintenance programmes in the prisons and monitor any breaches of the programmes. Arrangements are also being finalised to recruit nine addiction counsellors to the Dublin prisons. Other measures include the appointment of a drug service co-ordinator from the Eastern Regional Health Authority while a training officer for drug treatment work for prison staff has also been put in place. The methadone maintenance is available to prisoners in the Dublin area who were on a programme in the community prior to being locked up. Drug free wings in St Patrick's Institution and Wheatfield prison have also been established to complement the original wing at the Mountjoy training unit. 
