drugs
{ RALPH RIEGEL in Cork 
    September 06 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/south-coast-exposed-as-drug-smugglers-gateway-26173345.html }
IRISH anti-drugs agencies were last night celebrating one of the biggest European hauls in modern times. The seizure of over £130m worth of cocaine from a yacht in Kinsale, Co Cork, represents a vastly greater breakthrough than first suspected.The haul, uncovered on the Spanish-registered yacht Gemeos, is the biggest cocaine seizure in Irish history and the much-sought after drug which originated in Columbia had an estimated purity of 80pc. It has also re-focussed the spotlight on a major drugs pipeline and the get-rich-quick mentality which still persuades criminals to deal in narcotics. Garda drug seizures, in terms of street-values, are now running at almost 50pc over 1997 recoveries. However, the reality is Cork and Ireland's southern coastline remains the so-called European Achilles Heel for drug smuggling. It is no coincidence that four of Ireland's six biggest drug hauls were either carried out in Cork or originated in the Munster heartland. Despite the Gemeos success, the grim question facing Customs and Excise, Irish Naval Service personnel and the gardai is how many shipments slip through the detection cordon for every successful arrest? At least gardai now believe they're receiving the support needed to win the war against drug dealers. ``We're getting the resources and equipment we need and co-operation at an international and inter-service level has never been so good,'' said an officer in Kinsale last night. The £130m haul has dwarfed the £47m worth of cocaine seized on board the ship, Sea Mist, on September 29, 1996, and also in Cork. With the majority of drug seizures located in the south-west, few now deny Cork's status as Ireland's drug importation gateway. The question remains will the navy's drug-interdiction role be enhanced and the Cork-based service given the shipping, surveillance and manpower resources to bring the drug-war to the high seas. And the fact that the cocaine was probably destined for Britain, underlined Ireland's importance as Europe's first barrier against drug smugglers. Defence Minister, Michael Smith, is now set to put that argument to good use in seeking extra EU funding for a radically upgraded Irish Naval Service. And while the navy have already performed miracles with existing resources, even an upgraded fleet coupled with hi-tech surveillance resources leaves them with a Herculean task. Few doubt there's bumper-to-bumper traffic along the drug highways off Ireland's coast. The £130m worth of cannabis resin recovered in Urlingford Co Kilkenny in November 1995 was landed in West Cork while £12m worth of cannabis was found 60 miles off the Old Head of Kinsale in November 1993. Record garda drugs hauls to date have also included: * July 1991: £7m worth of cannabis seized on yacht in Courtmacsherry, Co Cork. * June 1993: £5m worth of cannabis found in Tragumna, West Cork. * July 1993: £20m worth of cannabis seized on yacht at Brime, off Loop Head. * July 1994: £10m worth of cannabis seized in Ballyconnelly, Co Galway. * August 1996: 50kg of cocaine found on Swedish boat at Moneypoint, Co Clare. * February 1998: Estimated 50,000 ecstasy tablets recovered in separate raids in east and mid Cork. * September 1998: £14m worth of cocaine found on yacht in Kinsale. Education Minister and Cork TD, Michael Martin, claimed the drug seizures over the past four days stand as a tribute to the dedication of gardai and proof the Government's appointment of Chris Flood as Junior Minister with Special Responsibility for Anti-Drug Measures was a master stroke. ``These garda successes and John O'Donoghue's new anti-drug measures are to be welcomed,'' he declared. ``But we still have a long way to go.''  Ironically, perhaps the ultimate tribute to the garda campaign was that cocaine prices on the street rose by 30pc within hours of the Kinsale seizure. 
