drugs
{  
    May 15 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/cannabis-at-the-wheel-as-drug-driving-numbers-leap-26118122.html }
By EUGENE MOLONEY and AIDEEN SHEEHAN    ONE in four people who tested positive for drugs while driving was found to have taken cannabis or valium  By EUGENE MOLONEY and AIDEEN SHEEHAN ONE in four people who tested positive for drugs while driving was found to have taken cannabis or valium or a similar prescription drug. A new study has found that since 1987 the prevalence of driving under the influence of drugs had more than doubled. The results come from a study of samples taken from people who, although stopped by gardai under suspicion of driving while drunk, were found to be under the legal limit for alcohol. Thirty seven per cent of 338 people tested proved positive for drugs, compared to a 14.6pc result in 1987. The most common drug was cannabis which accounted for 34pc of those who tested positive, with valium, or similar drugs available through prescription accounting for 25pc. Amphetamines accounted for 16pc, opiates such as heroin accounted for 14pc, methadone for seven per cent and cocaine for four per cent. The results which are part of a preliminary study were compiled by the Medical Bureau of Road Safety at UCD which is studying trends in driving while under the influence of drugs. It found almost half (45pc) of those who tested positive for drugs had taken two or more different substances. In the majority of cases drink was also present, although of a quantity below the legal limit. Only 22pc of drivers tested were found to have no alcohol in their blood or urine. Prof Denis Cusack of UCD's Department of Forensic Medicine, which carried out the study, said while the dangers of drink driving were highly publicised more research was needed into drugs involvement. He said a survey to be carried out this year was aimed at identifying in more detail trends in the types of drugs being taken, the extent to which various drugs were taken and the level to which drink and drugs were taken. The National Safety Council said it was ``very concerned'' about the increase in numbers of drivers under the influence of drugs which could be linked to the high level of one-car accidents among young men. The message about drink driving is getting through, but that doesn't seem to be the case with drugs,'' said spokesperson Caroline Spillane. The NSC is planning an advertisement campaign on the dangers of driving while taking prescription drugs, she said. 
