drugs
{  
    December 08 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/get-tough-on-drugs-barons-25950701.html }
Sir - 'Tightening the noose on drug dealers' deadly trade' was the optimistic headline given to Tom Brady's informative article on recent law enforcement successes in the war against the illicit drug trade (News). Despite such successes, however, the reality is that the illicit drug trade will continue to expand, bringing with it more murders and other associated criminal acts Sir - 'Tightening the noose on drug dealers' deadly trade' was the optimistic headline given to Tom Brady's informative article on recent law enforcement successes in the war against the illicit drug trade (News). Despite such successes, however, the reality is that the illicit drug trade will continue to expand, bringing with it more murders and other associated criminal acts. One reason why drug trafficking is so pernicious is that it generates so much harm to our society. Ready availability of drugs leads to more drug addicts and to more crimes, such as thefts and burglaries, as the addict seeks money with which to sustain her/his addiction, not to mention the devastating consequential effects on oneself, one's family and the community. Meanwhile, as is now apparent in Dublin, a burgeoning illicit drugs trade leads to Chicago-style gangs of the Prohibition era, turf wars and daylight murders. Despite these consequences, our Government carries on as if the illegal drugs trade did not pose a serious threat to our society. There is little point in the legislative arm of the state passing laws and prescribing mandatory sentences as a deterrent to drug trafficking when the judiciary, for the most part, seems to spend its time finding reasons why the law of the land should not be upheld. With such an approach over the past decade, is it any wonder that the problem is steadily getting worse, with more and more people willing to take a chance on drug trading, sustained by the thought that they should be so unlucky as to be caught, a big fee for a barrister will almost invariably lead to a light sentence, with much of it 'suspended'. If the Government was serious about facing up to the drugs criminals, they would establish a special drugs court, where those brought before it would be given the sentences which the people, through their elected representatives, have enacted into legislation to stem the progress of drug trafficking. The days when the ordinary courts could be expected to check the progress of the drug barons are long gone. There is no point in saying the CAB is a sufficient response, when one considers the amount of harm and deaths caused during the druglords' rise to financial notice. Liam O'Geibheannaigh, Ath an Ghainimh, Co Atha Cliath 
