drugs
{ Shane Phelan 
    December 28 2009 04:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/shane-phelan-drug-free-jails-impossible-unless-regime-is-inhuman-26594820.html }
BACK in 2004 the then Justice Minister Michael McDowell declared that drugs in prisons would no longer be tolerated. He said drug-free units within jails were not sufficient and that his aim was to take swift action to make prisons completely drug free within 18 months. The former PD leader lashed out at those who criticised the practicality of his plans for what he termed their "moral fuzziness". Five years on, Mr McDowell may have been dumped out of office and his prison plans well behind schedule, but the current Government remains committed to implementing his vision. The Department of Justice said last weekend there had been "no divergence at any level of Government on the commitment to work towards drug-free prisons". However, while the Government position may remain steadfast, at least a dose of realism has been added to the debate by those working on the coalface. As an indicator of the size of the task, Irish Prison Service (IPS) director general Brian Purcell has pointed to research findings which show that 80pc of prisoners who come into the system have a lifetime prevalence of drug-use. He has also spoken of the incredible lengths prisoners will go to so they can secure a supply of drugs, such as secreting heroin and other substances in body cavities. The use of sniffer dogs, airport style security screening and body orifice scanners has made smuggling a lot harder, but nevertheless, a significant amount of drugs are still getting in, albeit in smaller quantities. "So while the aim is to have drug-free prisons, and maybe some day we'll get them, I think it is going to be a long journey. Sometimes progress in this particular area has to be measured in small steps," said Mr Purcell. Comments at a recent Dail committee hearing by the secretary general of the Department of Justice, Sean Aylward, were also instructive of the realities facing prison administrators. Mr Aylward, a former IPS director general, told TDs that a prison system which eliminated any drug use, at any time in any place, would be a cruel system. He made the point that because some prisoners seek out every opportunity to acquire drugs, the only way to totally guarantee drug-free prisons would be to completely isolate prisoners from their fellow inmates and from family and friends. This would be impractical and inhumane, Mr Aylward said. Under the National Drugs Strategy 2010-2016, the IPS is adopting a two-pronged approach to the drugs issue -- cutting supply and increasing treatment and rehabilitation. The increased security measures have been well documented, but less has been said of the medical facilities now open to addicts. The prison system's only full rehabilitation programme is located at Mountjoy's medical unit. It can cater for nine inmates at a time, with just 50 inmates successfully rehabilitated last year. Those working in the area defend the low throughput, stating that the rehabilitation programme is not suitable for all addicts. They also point out that the programme is only a small part of the work being done, with major emphasis being placed on addiction counselling and methadone maintenance. "It is not just 50 patients detoxed in Mountjoy," said Mountjoy clinician Des Crowley. 'There are many routes you can detox (outside of the rehabilitation programme). For example some people come off methadone themselves in prison. There is a combination of routes by which you can become drugs-free." There are now 23 addiction counsellors providing 1,000 hours service each week across the prison system. The numbers on methadone treatment in the prison system has almost doubled since 2004, going from 1,114 to 2,014 last year. While the reliance on methadone has been criticised in some quarters, Dr Siobhan Rooney, a consultant working at Mountjoy, insists it has been hugely beneficial. "Being on methadone maintenance and not using drugs, there is huge safety in that, huge reduction of risk and improved mental health and physical health," she said. Part of the new approach has been linking up with medical facilities on the outside, to ensure that if a prisoner is on methadone maintenance in jail they will be able to immediately continue with the programme once released. Despite these medical advances, significant problems remain. For example, it remains particularly challenging to secure follow-on services for inmates from areas outside of urban centres, where post-release support is harder to come by. Overcrowding has also made the implementation of the security and medical initiatives more difficult to achieve. The diminished supply has also created other problems, such as increased tension between rival drug dealing gangs within Mountjoy and other prisons. Some 429 weapons, such as homemade shivs, have been detected so far this year in Mountjoy compared to just 216 in 2008 -- an indication of how much tensions have increased. Irish Independent 
