drugs
{  
    February 06 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/school-forced-to-give-talks-after-pupil-11-pretends-to-possess-drugs-27105779.html }
A PRIMARY school principal has been forced to give pupils a drugs lecture after one 11-year-old child pretended to have an illegal substance in the classroom.It comes after warnings from gardaí that drugs, particularly cannabis joints, are being used by children as young as seven or eight.As well as growing alcohol use, there is an increasing problem A PRIMARY school principal has been forced to give pupils a drugs lecture after one 11-year-old child pretended to have an illegal substance in the classroom. It comes after warnings from gardaí that drugs, particularly cannabis ‘joints’, are being used by children as young as seven or eight. ‘As well as growing alcohol use, there is an increasing problem of drugs in schools and even primary schools,’ said one garda. ‘The simple fact is that nowadays children are coming into contact with cannabis in a way that previous generations may have come into contact with ordinary cigarettes.’ The latest incident was sparked after a child produced a substance that it was claimed to other classmates to be a drug. However, the substance was discovered and confiscated by a teacher and found to be harmless. After the matter, the school principal went around the classrooms talking to the children and informing them of the dangers of getting involved with drugs. Local INTO representative Peter Darcy said that he has not come across any incidences of drug taking in primary schools in the area but said that schools have procedures in place to deal with any situation that may arise. ‘You get isolated incidents of a kid sniffing glue, petrol or nail varnish and the odd tablet might appear and cause a scare but I have not encountered any illicit drug use in primary schools,’ said Mr Darcy. ‘Schools have a policy of keeping an eye out for everything, even the unlikely event of a child being caught with drugs in the school.’ He went on to say that the number of primary school children smoking is still relatively small. ‘Not that many children are smoking cigarettes and even then it is usually confined to sixth class pupils and I don’t think drugs have found their way into our primary schools yet.’ The local garda revealed that many schools are not keen on getting the gardaí involved in incidents of drug and alcohol use, particularly with younger pupils. ‘We believe that the majority of drug taking is done out of school hours. But when drugs are brought into primary schools the teachers usually prefer to keep the matter between the school and the parents,’ said the local garda. ‘However our schools liaison teams do a lot of work in the schools giving anti-drug talks and educating children about the dangers of drugs. It is an ongoing fight, however, and one the gardaí will be tackling head-on.’ 
