drugs
{  
    January 06 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/drug-barons-who-laugh-at-the-law-from-inside-their-prison-cells-26278831.html }
How are mobile phones and drugs being smuggled into supposedly secure prisons? Why are dealers allowed tocontinue their trade behind bars? And what does theGovernment plan to do about it? RONAN McGREEVY reports Earlier this week prison guards carried out an inspection of the D1 and D2 wings of the Midlands Prison in Portlaoise, which houses some of Ireland's most notorious criminals. In the course of their search of the cells, they recovered seven mobile phones - devices which are strictly forbidden in prisons for obvious reasons. Although the Midlands is the first prison in Ireland to have a sniffer dog both for inmates and guests, hardened criminals have managed to circumvent all the security checks in what is one of the country's newest and most secure jails. The smuggling of drugs and mobile phones is so endemic in prison, and offenders so brazen, that proposals have been drawn up to hold 20 prisoners in isolation from the main prison population at the remand centre in Cloverhill. The Government has proposed the setting up a 'mini-Alcatraz' special isolation ward for hardened drug smugglers who continue to direct their operations from inside the prison walls. A unit has already been identified at Cloverhill and could be in operation as early as next month. Incarceration will be confined to prisoners who are on remand for possession of drugs with intent to supply - an offence which many carry on both within and outside the prison walls. They will not only have their own unit, but also their own exercise yard. This week the Director of the Prison Service, Brian Purcell acknowledged that the use of mobile phones is now an urgent priority and the service is looking at technology that would block the signals going into jails. Along with a sniffer dog which is being used on a pilot basis, new portable cameras have been pioneered in several prisons to look for drugs. However, prison officers, who risk attack every time they search an inmate's cell, believe the problem needs even greater attention. 'If you find seven mobile phones after searching just two landings, what would you find if you searched the whole prison?" said one exasperated officer. "We're concerned about the amount of drugs in the Midlands Prison. That's why management put a sniffer dog in there. And where there are drugs, there are mobile phones. "As prison officers we feel we get no support. If a Garda stops a person on the street and finds drugs, that person gets prosecuted. When was the last time somebody was convicted for smuggling drugs or mobile phones into prison? If drugs are detected on a visitor, all that will happen is that the visitor is offered a screen visit rather than a face-to-face. What kind of a deterrent is that? "It won't be enough to have an isolation unit. The Government has to think this one through properly." Last year the Minister for Justice Michael McDowell published his prison drugs policy which advocated better vigilance and a zero tolerance policy, but the Inspector of Prisons, Mr Justice Dermot Kinlan, says the task is "extremely difficult" and the problem exists in even the best-run institutions. "The Minister wants 'drug-free prisons', not 'drug-free sections' of prisons," the inspector wrote. "In the real world, one has to accept that addicts are extremely adroit in getting a supply of drugs. "They are smuggled into prison in many and varied ways. They can be sent over the wall with a catapult, or they can be stitched into clothes, or fondling an infant and removing the drugs from the nappy or through the mouth while kissing." Some prison reformers believe there is a more than tacit acceptance of drugs by the authorities because the alternative, with addicts bent on a fix running amok, would be even worse. "It suits the Prison Service because it keeps prisoners calm," says Dr Valerie Bresnihan, a former director and chairperson of the Irish Penal Reform Trust. "I'm not saying it's a deliberate plot, far from it, it's just an unconscious survival process that goes on in prisons. "I have seen videos where a visitor, with a tiny bit of heroin wrapped in tinfoil, gave their partner a kiss. In one second that prisoner had it from his mouth and up his backside. They just learn to do these things quickly. "Every governor would say that you are talking cloud cuckoo land to get rid of drugs from prison. You can put in resources to reduce it to about 14% of the population, which would be a huge improvement because the rest of the prison population would be able to get on with their lives." In theory, prisons are places where offenders get over their drug habits in a drug-free environment. In reality, according to a recent study by Trinity College, one in five prisoners begin injecting drugs when they go to prison. Currently, Mountjoy Prison has the largest methadone treatment clinic in the country. It also has a huge illegal drug culture. The perimeter fence is studded with all kinds of bottles, footballs and canisters containing drugs which never made it into the exercise yard. Last year recovering heroin addict Rachel Keogh (26) pleaded with a judge not to be sent there because of the sheer ubiquity of drugs there. "If I went back there, I wouldn't be here today," she says. "I've been in an out of prison since I was 15. I swear to God, prison is not the answer for drug addicts. "I learned how to use drugs properly when I was in jail. Before I went into prison, I had just started smoking heroin. In there I learned how to cook up and they showed me where to inject and how to rob this and rob that. "You can get drugs in prison even quicker than you can in the outside. In there we called them 'dropsies'. People used to send them up to me in my clothes or in shampoo bottles. Most people I know who went to prison ended up worse than they were before." Drugs have exacerbated the Dickensian conditions and chronic overcrowding in Mountjoy. Last summer there was a series of violent incidents there, culminating in the killing of inmate Gary Douch who was beaten to death after telling prison officers that he feared for his life. Father Peter McVerry, who works with drug addicts and prisoners, believes an isolation unit for drug pushers will have no effect on the amount of drugs smuggled into jails, but will change the atmosphere in some prisons. "The drug barons are engaged in a huge amount of intimidation in prisons. Every day there are stabbings and assaults that we don't hear about. If we can take some of these offenders out of circulation and put them on their own, we can take away some of the fear that prisoners feel in prison." 
