drugs
{ Treacy Hogan 
    August 21 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/test-drivers-for-drugs-as-well-as-drink-cullen-urged-26370923.html }
Australia has already been using technology to detect cannabis use ROADSIDE drug testing should be introduced here as a matter of urgency, according to Fine Gael. The party yesterday called on Transport Minister Martin Cullen to introduce the measure in the wake of a new report which revealed that seven-in-10 motorists found driving without due care, were under the influence of both legal and illegal drugs. The Government has been urged to bring in technology already in use in Australia which can instantly check drivers for drugs. Senator Fergal Browne said he was not shocked at surveys which showed that drug driving was widespread and therefore likely to be a factor in many accidents. "Given that drug driving involves such a wide range of substances, it is also very difficult to test for such a wide range of drugs, compared to the simplicity of the alcohol test," he said. "That is why this issue needs to be highlighted, as many users of legal prescription drugs will not be aware of the dangers." Senator Browne said he welcomed proposals by the Road Safety Authority to launch a new strategy to deal with the problem. Australia has begun using new technology to test for cannabis and amphetamines. Using a saliva swab, the technology is accurate enough to identify possible drug users, and to allow them to be brought in for more accurate testing. Cannabis "Given that cannabis is one of the most commonly used drugs, I would urge the Government to immediately consider importing this technology to Ireland," the senator said. The Irish authorities should also liaise with the authorities in the UK who are conducting a pilot test on a wide-ranging drug test for drivers. Fine Gael urged the Government to open discussions with medical experts and representative bodies about the issue of driving on prescription drugs, in order to determine which drugs are high risk and whether certain levels are acceptable. "It's disturbing to think that drug driving has been revealed as a widespread practice, particularly when drink driving has become so unacceptable," said senator Browne. "I understand the Irish authorities will be conducting toxicology tests on road fatalities over the next few months which will reveal the role played by drugs in fatal accidents." Gardai will next year test out new equipment to see if it can be used to check drivers for drugs at the roadside. Supt John Farrelly of the Garda Traffic Corps said the equipment pilot was part of an EU initiative by TISPOL, the European network of police forces. There is currently no roadside test carried out by gardai for the presence of drugs in drivers. 
