drugs
{ Ian O'Doherty 
    October 22 2007 03:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/debate-on-drugs-is-a-load-of-old-smoke-26326499.html }
So, now we're being told that all drugs should be legalised? And this time the call wasn't being made by a rock star or a controversialist, but Richard Brunstrom, Chief Constable of North Wales. Brunstrom is already a controversial character, and is loathed by many for his apparent obsession with speeding drivers, but he's now prepared to allow speed of a different kind to be made widely available after he said last week that: "If policy on drugs is in future to be pragmatic not moralistic, driven by ethics not dogma, then the current prohibitionist stance will have to be swept away as both unworkable and immoral." And, as sure as smoking a load of spliffs is going to give you the munchies, anti-drug campaigners were quick to condemn him, with the ludicrous former "drugs tsar" Keith Hellawell first in line to get the boot in. Of course, his comments were gratefully received by those on the pro-legalisation side. But regardless of where you stand on the issue of drugs and their prohibition -- and prohibition always works, right? -- the most interesting aspects of his speech were his use of the word "moralistic" in relation to the application of the law as it currently stands. He is to be congratulated for making that point, if nothing else, because behind all the anti-drug rhetoric and hype, what motivates many anti-drug campaigners and politicians and even the police force is a sense of moral outrage at those who choose to take drugs. This is evinced in the hysterical tone which colours even the so-called moderate debates, where anyone who suggests that smoking a joint is not the worst thing you can do is immediately denounced as irresponsible and characterised as the type of person who wants to give drugs to children. This pattern of demonising anyone who wants to even have a debate about the issue has lead to a ridiculous polarisation of thought and in the past allowed some to don the pro-drugs mantle and make it seem as if all drug users were as daft. Let's be honest, when I read Sinead O'Connor demanding hash machines be placed on streets everywhere blowing out dope fumes I wanted to ban the stuff myself. O'Connor and many others like her only do the cause immeasurable damage which, thankfully, is also the case for the opposition, where a hysterical attack by the likes of Grainne Kenny of Eurad makes such ridiculous claims that even other prohibitionists roll their eyes. But what the pro-legalisation lobby need to accept is that central to the issue is our lack of real knowledge. We just simply do not know what sort of society we'll have within a decade of decriminalisation. This in itself is not a sufficient reason to keep drugs illegal, of course, and we may find that we have suddenly developed a responsible, Dutch style approach to drugs or, equally, we could end up as a larger version of Brixton, which became a Mecca for thuggery and criminality when the local top cop made it clear he wouldn't bust anyone for having a bit of weed. All we can really deal with it is what we know for a fact. And we know for a fact that prohibition has led to the so-called "war on drugs" which, in essence, is the State waging war on its citizens. And losing. The intellectual, moral and legal gymnastics can best be seen in the absurd claim that if you smoke dope you are contributing to global terrorism and local crime gangs. While the terrorism angle isn't a drum banged loudly on this side of the pond, it has become an effective way of silencing dissenters and branding them unpatriotic. The same fatuous moral blackmail is played out here by the claims made by Michael McDowell and the Sunday Independent -- buying drugs puts money in the pockets of the very people who killed Veronica Guerin. Well, the way out of that is simple -- either allow people to grow their own supply or legalise it. After all, it may be a cliche that the people most opposed to legalisation and regulation are the crime gangs themselves, but like most cliches it is true. Fundamental to the issue, as well, is the simple fact that we have freedom of choice over what we do with our bodies. If Grainne Kenny or a Government minister or a crusading newspaper editor thinks that enjoying drugs is a sign of moral weakness that is their right, just as it is my right to blithely ignore them as I'm skinning up. What we need in the context of this debate is the removal of the shrill prohibitionists and equally the extreme pro-legislation lobby who behave like teenagers after their first toke insisting that everyone else sparks up as well. I smoke dope and I like it and I refuse to apologise for it. But it's of supreme indifference to me whether you smoke, or want to smoke it. These should be personal decisions arrived at responsibly, and not held hostage by two increasingly fractious and extreme sides of the debate. 
