drugs
{ John  Mulligan 
    March 08 2008 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/drug-price-stand-off-is-a-tough-pill-for-consumers-to-swallow-26428666.html }
As much as consumer advocate Dermot Jewell wants to see drug prices reduced, he knows the solution isn't necessarily going to be easy. "For years there's been growing unease amongst consumers in relation to the costs they have to pay for medicines," says the chief executive of the Consumers Association of Ireland. As more than 800 pharmacists from around the country met in Dublin this week to vent their anger over changes to the Health Services Executive's new pricing structure, it's clear that something has to give, and the war of words is undoubtedly far from over. The HSE wants to slash its €1.75bn drugs bill, and says that Irish consumers suffer because the country's pharmacies benefit from the highest average retail margins in Europe, at 33pc. The mark-up on drugs sold to paying members of the public is typically 50pc, and is perceived to be a levy by pharmacies on non-medical card holders. This mark-up also applies to those on the drug payment scheme where they pay the first €90 of drugs dispensed to them during a one-month period, Declan Purcell, director of advocacy at the Competition Authority, has undertaken extensive research into the pharmaceutical retail industry. He has previously stated that consumers have continued to get a raw deal because of the unique and lucrative nature of the pharmaceutical retail sector in Ireland. In an effort to combat rising costs, the HSE has reduced the mark-up it pays to wholesalers for drugs sold to community pharmacies under the General Medical Scheme (GMS), from 17.7pc to 8pc. That, it says, will cut €100m from the HSE's overall annual drug bill. But the wholesalers, despite their vested interest in the high-street pharmacy business (most either own a substantial number of community pharmacies, or like United Drug, have invested heavily in them without taking equity stakes), are protecting their own pockets, and have so far not shouldered any of the cuts. Instead, they've continued to charge an almost 18pc mark-up on factory gate drugs to chemists. Pharmacists, however, are now being reimbursed the factory gate price of drugs they dispense to medical card holders, plus the new, lower 8pc mark-up now being paid by the HSE to wholesalers, and a €3.26 dispensing fee per item. The HSE points out that the old 17.7pc wholesale mark-up on drugs was twice the EU average, and that over half of it was given back by wholesalers to pharmacies by means of discounts. Pharmacists claim they are now paying more for the drugs they sell to medical card holders than they are reimbursed by the HSE. They maintain it's unsustainable and could drive hundreds of them out of business. Wholesalers haven't yet borne some of the hit. Nor have they indicated to the HSE that they will not reduce the almost 18pc mark-up they're charging pharmacies. So, are the country's pharmacists going to be as cash-strapped as they claim? Last December, the British chemist Boots said it plans to double its presence in Ireland to 100 stores within five years. It's little wonder that it's eager to expand. Boots has done extraordinarily well from its Irish operation, having entered the market in 1996. In 2006, the group chalked up a pre-tax profit of €19m, although it's less reliant on prescriptions, making more of its money from so-called front-of-house goods such as perfumes and skincare products. Home-grown pharmacy chains have also been doing well. Uniphar, one of the biggest pharmaceutical retailers and wholesalers in the country which is owned by a group of 400 chemists, posted sales of €705.3m in 2006 and a pre-tax profit of €19.6m. The Wexford-based Sam McCauley chain recorded sales of €70.3m in its 2006 financial year and a pre-tax profit of €1.9m. Unicare, with over 60 outlets, is owned by German group Celesio. In its last financial year Unicare generated revenue of €93m, while Celesio's Irish wholesaling arm, Cahill May Roberts, saw sales grow 10pc to almost €244m. Celesio doesn't divulge profit figures for the Irish operations. "This whole debate between the HSE and pharmacists is a very difficult one to resolve," says Dermot Jewell. "It's clear that the system has to change radically, and pharmacists probably need to begin making their case to their wholesalers rather than just the consumers, since the wholesalers are still charging a higher margin to the pharmacists despite their own being cut by the HSE." As drug wholesalers such as Cahill May Roberts and Uniphar are so integrated into the retail side of the business, they're seen to be reaping the benefits of both high drug prices and government reimbursements. Jewell says the relationship between wholesalers and pharmacists is "far too comfortable" and points out that the issue of drug pricing and margins probably needs to encompass a wider number of stakeholders, including doctors who often prescribe more expensive branded medicines rather than cheaper generic alternatives. "That incestuous relationship between pharmacies and wholesalers should be addressed," said one industry source, who agreed that the wider issue is extremely complex. "There's no other profession that benefits from a guaranteed mark-up," he adds. "Sweetheart deals that can further reduce wholesale prices can make if difficult to ascertain how true it is that a reduction in margins will adversely affect some pharmacies," he said. "And if some pharmacies, particularly in remote areas, are brought to their knees, then the Government can always introduce a public service obligation-type order in specific scenarios to ensure the survival of outlets in areas where there may be no close-at-hand alternative. "The fact is that pharmacies have been getting an awful lot of free money from the state and now they'll just have to tighten their belts. If some of them go out of business, well that's life," he said. Some pharmacists have claimed they will lose up to a third of their income under the new scheme, but that may fail to take account of other non-GMS income they generate. Meanwhile, the IPU has been calling for negotiations with the HSE, which points out that it can't enter such talks as to do so would breach competition law, as the pharmacies are individual businesses. A HSE spokesman said that the body had spent €1.1bn buying drugs from manufacturers last year, but then paid an additional €600m in costs getting them through the distribution chain, into pharmacies, and then into patients' hands. "That's an unsustainable economic model and wouldn't work in any other business," he said. "This debate isn't to do with pharmacists, it's the wholesalers' mark-ups we're cutting." He added that although the IPU has said that it's up to each individual pharmacist if they want to exit the GMS, none has so far applied to do so. "Why would they?" asked one industry source. "It's too lucrative for most of them." Of the fees reimbursed and paid to pharmacies by the HSE last year, about two-thirds of the country's more than 1,400 outlets received less than €300,000 each. A smaller number, 86, received more than €500,000 each. Pharmacists have claimed before that changes, such as the removal of barriers of entry to the profession as in 2005, would result in closures. Since then, the number of pharmacies in the country has increased by about 10pc. "This isn't all doom and gloom," says Dermot Jewell. "It's about what the market can bear and the HSE is probably moving in the right direction. There's an argument that it has used a sledgehammer to crack a nut, though." For consumers, maybe it's a nut worth cracking. 
