drugs
{  
    May 27 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/the-regional-drugs-task-force-hold-public-meeting-26913508.html }
Council members were presented with the National Drug Strategy 2001-2008 Building on Experience by Pat Shields, Chairman of the North East Regional Drugs Task Force, and Lesley OSullivan, Drug Strategy Facilitator, representing the North Eastern Health Board.Ms.OSullivan pointed out that the Louth Community Forum, in conjunction with the Regional Drugs Council members were presented with the National Drug Strategy 2001-2008 ‘Building on Experience’ by Pat Shields, Chairman of the North East Regional Drugs Task Force, and Lesley O’Sullivan, Drug Strategy Facilitator, representing the North Eastern Health Board. Ms.O’Sullivan pointed out that the Louth Community Forum, in conjunction with the Regional Drugs Task Force, were holding a public consultation meeting regarding the Regional Drugs Strategy for the North East on (tonight) Wednesday in the Fairways Hotel. She explained that Cllr. Finnan McCoy represents the County Council on the Task Force, but pointed out that the Fourm were seeking the views of all Council members, and it was hoped they would attend the meeting. This event will build on the work of the Health Boards, other statutory and voluntary agencies and community groups in order to develop an integrated strategy for the future. Giving a brief outline of the Regional Drugs Task Force, Ms. O’Sullivan explained that it was set up to ensure the development of a co-ordinated and integrated response to tackling the drugs problem. In particular the Task Force were concerned with; supply reduction, education and prevention and treatment and research. She pointed out that it was vitally important that councillors feed into the development plan. Cllr. Peter Savage asked how this report was going to be any different from other reports. Ms. O’Sullivan added that the National Drugs Strategy was really behind the development of the regional strategies. Pat Shields pointed out “What will make this report different is what people put into it.” Cllr. Tommy Reilly said that alcohol was a major problem, asking Ms. O’Sullivan if it were to be included in the report. She responded that the Regional Drugs Task Force had decided to include recommendations on the issue or alcohol. Cllr. Sean Collins said that parents have a lot to add, especially if they have been through difficulties such as drugs problems with young people. Both representatives of the Task Force appealed to the Councillors to promote the meeting on the Drugs Strategy whilst they were out canvassing. 
