drugs
{  
    July 07 2017 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/apprentice-plumber-22-found-with-cannabis-herb-35889764.html }
An apprentice plumber caught with nearly €550 worth of cannabis herb claimed he 'got a good deal' on drugs from a woman he met on a train. Ryan Cannon (22) initially denied he had any drugs on him but later handed over the cannabis herb which was concealed in his underwear. He is to be sentenced later at Swords District Court. The defendant admitted being in unlawful possession of the cannabis herb but denied having the drugs for sale or supply. He was in a car which allegedly followed an off-duty garda home from his work.  The off-duty garda reported the alleged incident and the car was stopped by gardai. The defendant, who was with two other males, was a front seat passenger in the car.  Sergeant Niall Phelan gave evidence there was a strong smell of cannabis coming from the car. However, he said the defendant denied having any drugs. The defendant was searched and Sgt Phelan said he noticed 'an unnatural bulge in his underwear.' 'He handed me a large bag of cannabis herb which he had concealed in his underwear under his scrotum,' said Sgt Phelan. He said the defendant said 'I understand. It's mine for my own use.' Sgt Phelan said the cannabis herb amounted to 27.2 grams with a street value of €540. The defendant, of Parkview Apartments, Vauxhall Street in Balbriggan pleaded guilty to unlawful possession of drugs under Section 3 of the Misuse of Drugs Act on August 23rd 2016 at Drogheda Garda Station. He pleaded not guilty to being in unlawful possession of the drugs for sale or supply under Section 15 of the Misuse of Drugs Act on the same date. He has 16 previous convictions. Defence barrister Annette Kealy said the defendant is denying having the drugs for sale or supply as he bought the cannabis herb for €200. 'He took a deal with the reduced value. He always maintained it was for his own use,' said Ms Kealy. 'At the time he was smoking €50 worth of cannabis a day,' she said. However, Sgt Phelan said the quantity of the drugs was causing concern to which Ms Kealy said the 'quantity of the drugs was not enormous and it would be plausible for personal use.' On hearing the evidence, Judge Dermot Dempsey said he is satisfied the defendant has a case to meet for the Section 15 charge as a lack of explanation as to why he had it was given. Taking to the witness box, the defendant claimed he 'met a woman on the train from Balbriggan to Drogheda' and offered him the drugs for €200. 'I thought it was a good deal as I was smoking €50 a day and I expected those drugs to last about two weeks. I wasn't selling to my friends. It was just for myself,' said the defendant. He said he never sold drugs in his life or passed them to his friends. 'I have stopped taking drugs now,' he said, adding he had been smoking cannabis since the age of 17 but gave it up after the day he was caught by gardai. He said he initially told Sgt Phelan he had no drugs in the car as he 'thought I would get away with it.' Judge Dempsey adjourned the case until September 11th for sentencing and ordered a pre-sanction report and urine analysis to see if the defendant is drug-free. He also ordered a Community Service report to see if the defendant is suitable to complete 240 hours work in lieu of four months in prison and ordered the defendant take part in a drug awareness programme. Fingal Independent 
