drugs
{ John Meagher 
    December 01 2007 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/ship-to-shore-the-route-that-feeds-our-deadliest-obsession-26335618.html }
Kevin Doyle had more reason than most to look forward to the birthday party last Saturday night. Just weeks previously, the 21-year-old Waterford man had been given the all-clear in his battle with cancer. He was now approaching life with a renewed vigour and the opportunity to let his hair down at a 21st house party in the city's Ballybeg Square estate had great appeal. His mother, Breda, dropped him into town in the early evening and, together with a bunch of friends, he visited a number of pubs before turning up at the party late on Saturday night. As inhibitions lowered and the drink flowed, cocaine materialised. At 5am, Breda received a call from another son to say Kevin was in a coma in Waterford Regional Hospital. He had suffered seizures and heart palpitations after apparently eating cocaine that had been too damp to snort. The party was held in the family home of Mark Grey and up to 30 young men had attended, including Mark's 23-year-old brother John. Like Kevin Doyle, he too would become a casualty of the cocaine stash that had done the rounds that night. A head and shoulders photo of him in a hospital bed, with a catheter inserted in his nose, would provide a sobering anti-cocaine message in the newspapers this week. "Drugs run this town," his mother, Betty, said two days after the party. "I don't condone drugs. John took them -- that's it. He paid the consequences. But he didn't deserve to be in a coma." In Bolivia, Seberino Marquina is one of the country's 100,000 coca leaf growers. He has 24 acres of land in Capare -- one of Bolivia's top coca growing districts -- and has harvested the crop for the past 30 years. Last year, Bolivian army troops descended on the 55-year-old's farm and set about destroying his crop. One by one, and in view of the New York Times journalist who had come to report on how the country was dealing with the crop that produces cocaine, they ripped his coca bushes from the ground. It was an attempt from Boliva's then government to wage war against the country's cocaine traffickers by destroying the raw material of the drug that's known by a variety of sobriquets in the West. But weeks later, a new Bolivian president and a former coca grower, Evo Morales, was installed and the programme was abandoned. Farmers like Seberino Marquina were permitted to continue growing coca, and the production of this plant is vitally important for rural residents of the poorest country in South America. It is a long way from Waterford to Bolivia and from Kevin Doyle and John Grey to Seberino Marquina -- but the cocaine that has threatened the lives of these two young men is likely to have been culled from crops grown legally by farmers like Marquina in Bolivia. And if not Bolivia, then Colombia or Peru -- the other major coca-growing nations in that corner of South America. Some of the leaves they cultivate are exported legally for bona fide use as a food additive, for the production of herbal teas and as an ingredient in some cosmetics. But the vast bulk of the coca leaves harvested fuel the multi-billion dollar a year cocaine trade. Much of the raw cocaine taken from the leaves is extracted and produced in neighbouring Colombia and shipped worldwide. Smuggling large quantities of cocaine from these countries to Ireland may be a logistical nightmare, but it's done frequently and efficiently. With up to 10 per cent of Irish adults claiming to be cocaine users, demand is high and the profit margins to be made for organised gangs is astronomical. The cocaine trail from Capare, Bolivia, to Ballybeg, Waterford is a lengthy, intricate one involving a series of countries, thousands of miles at sea and possibly air and a great deal of money changing hands between international drug syndicates. President Morales faces an uphill battle if he is to control Bolivia's illegal coca trade. Much of it is controlled by the Bolivian mafia who extract cocaine from the harvest or -- more often -- transport the crop en masse to Colombia where 80 per cent of the world's pure cocaine is produced. Colombia has long been home to the world's largest cocaine smuggling operations and it has been estimated that dealers in the South American country can generate up to $10 billion a year by shipping drugs to the US and Europe. Previously, much of the large consignment of cocaine destined for Europe was routed through the Caribbean before being shipped on to Morocco and finally Europe. But with Caribbean and Moroccan authorities cracking down heavily on the illegal trade, canny traffickers have had to look elsewhere. Earlier this year, a UN report highlighted the use of West African countries such as Senegal as a stopping off point for large quantities of cocaine to be moved to smaller vessels bound for Europe. The International Narcotics Control Board, which polices UN drugs laws, said drug-trafficking networks were using west Africa as a transit area for smuggling South American cocaine. "The trafficking in cocaine in Africa is fuelled by rising demand, and abuse of, cocaine in Europe," according to the report. "Both the number of couriers apprehended and the volume of bulk seizures in Africa has increased significantly." Gardaí and Customs have confirmed that this route has contributed to the massive increase in cocaine seizures in Ireland in the last two years. According to Det Super Colm Fetherstone from the National Drugs Unit, resourceful traffickers are taking advantage of more lax customs controls in west Africa before moving their goods by sea into the lucrative European market. "Once a specific port starts to put more stringent checks in place, the traffickers go somewhere else. West Africa is definitely an option for some of the gangs, but a lot of cocaine that comes into this country is originally shipped from Colombia into Spain. Some is sent via Rotterdam, the biggest, busiest port in the world. Just think of all the cargo that goes through that port every day. It's not surprising that cocaine can get through." Dr Michael Mulqueen, who lectures in UCC's faculty of politics and international relations and who has recently conducted a major study on Irish national security, believes Ireland is especially susceptible to cocaine traffickers. "As an island nation, with thousands of miles of coastline, drugs can be smuggled quite easily into the country," he says. "There are only eight patrol boats in the Irish navy and they have to cover a huge marine area to the south and west of the country. We're talking about an area that's about 250,000 square kilometres in size -- it's not surprising that consignments can get through. And for drug traffickers, maritime channels are far less risky than trying to smuggle cocaine by air." In July, a gang comprising Irish and UK criminals failed in their attempts to smuggle cocaine with a street value of €100 million into Ireland through the west Cork coast after the dinghy they were travelling in capsized. The smugglers had apparently overloaded the boat with packets of cocaine, causing the vessel to sink. It would be the biggest offshore drug haul in Irish history. Irish-born drug trafficker Brian Wright -- known as 'The Milkman' because he has always delivered -- is thought to have been behind the failed operation. A leading figure in the UK cocaine world, he and rival gangs are understood to have used Ireland in the past to smuggle drugs destined for the British market. "Criminals are using the Irish coastline to get into Europe because it is regarded as a soft touch," according to one top-level security expert. "The smugglers see that we have a low density of population compared to other countries, and the security on the coast is sparse. So they land drugs here. "Once drugs are landed ashore in Ireland, it is easy to move them without raising suspicions. They can be put in containers and sent on to Britain. Material coming from Ireland is not usually regarded as high-risk cargo.'' But with Ireland's cocaine use estimated to be the highest per-capita in the world along with that of Colombia, demand is unlikely to die down. "Cocaine really took off in Ireland about seven years ago," says Stephen Rowan or the Dublin-based Rutland Centre, one of the country's leading addiction treatment centres. "And its use is extremely widespread now. As the economy has prospered so has the lot of the drugs gangs who have been very keen to feed a middle class who see it as a glamour drug. The majority of people don't get addicted to it but those that do, will go to extraordinary lengths to feed their habit. They might go through €1,000 of cocaine in a couple of days and to pay for that they will start dealing it. "When people say that cocaine is readily available in all parts of the country, that's why: with more and more dependent on it, greater numbers will feel forced into dealing. It's a vicious circle." And it's one that came to a head last Saturday night in a nondescript Waterford housing estate. 
