drugs
{ Paul Melia 
    December 23 2014 12:27 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/special-reports/revealed-league-table-of-the-worst-counties-for-drink-driving-30858032.html }
One in 10 motorists in some counties has been caught drink driving over the past decade. And the number of drivers getting behind the wheel after drinking or taking illegal drugs is highest in predominantly rural counties. In the first analysis of its kind, the Irish Independent can reveal that on average, one in 20 people holding a driving licence has been recorded as driving under the influence of alcohol between 2004 and this year. Another 4,000 have been detected with illegal drugs in their system. An average of 51.5 motorists per 1,000 of population have been caught by Gardai drink driving – but the figures are far higher in some counties. The highest rate is in Monaghan, at twice the national average. The lowest is in Roscommon. The figures come amid increasing concern about a year-on-year rise in fatalities on our roads, with safety bosses expecting the death toll to increase for the second year in a row. So far this year, 189 people have been killed, up eight on 2013. Data from the Central Statistics Office (CSO) shows more than 134,500 drivers have been recorded across 565 Garda stations since 2004 as being under the influence of alcohol. Gardai will mount mandatory alcohol checkpoints over the Christmas period in an attempt to reduce the carnage, and will also use new powers to test motorists suspected of driving under the influence of drugs. 
Close
 / Transport Minister Paschal Donohoe said that a “small minority” of motorists posed a “catastrophic risk” and that polydrug use – using drugs and alcohol – was on the rise. "There's a very small minority who still don't realise the risk they pose," he said. "Moving to mandatory intoxicate testing (where drink and drugs are tested) is the right thing to do because of the statistics that indicate the extent of drug use. Polydrug use, alcohol and a combination of drugs, is posing a risk, but an important consequence is emphasising yet again the risk of being caught that is out there for all people with any form of intoxicant in their system." The figures, which are based on Garda detection rates from 2004 until June this year, show: 
Close
 / • The highest rate of detections for drink-driving is in Monaghan, where 98 drivers per 1,000 have been caught, which is almost twice the national average. • It is followed by Cavan, where 84 per 1,000 motorists have been detected; Louth (67 per 1,000), Westmeath (66 per 1,000) and Donegal (59 per 1,000). • The lowest rate is in Roscommon, where 32 per 1,000 drivers have been caught. • In terms of overall numbers, most detections have been made in Blanchardstown in Dublin, with 3,013 in the period analysed. Stations in Galway, Louth, Limerick, Waterford, Kerry, Kilkenny and Kildare also feature in the 10 busiest. • For drugs, some 3,915 motorists have been recorded as being under the influence - or 1.5 per 1,000 population. • But the detection rate is highest in Offaly, where 3.6 motorists per 1,000 drivers are recorded. It is followed by Westmeath (3.2), Tipperary (2.7), Laois (2.6) and Limerick (2.6). • The lowest rate of detections for drugs is in Donegal, at 0.27 per 1,000 motorists. • The highest number of detections for drugs is in Ballyfermot in Dublin, with 104. Stations in Limerick, Westmeath and Offaly also feature in the top 10 busiest. The figures outline the extent of the dangers facing law-abiding motorists on the roads, but also the difficulty for gardai in policing some 100,000kms of network. Gardai have carried out 365,000 roadside breath tests so far this year, and mounted 65,000 checkpoints. More than 7,100 motorists have been detected driving while intoxicated. But the problem is believed to be worse than the official figures indicate, as many drivers are never caught. Research from the Road Safety Authority (RSA) and HSE suggests that alcohol plays a part in 37pc of fatal crashes, with drugs believed to be a factor in as many as 10pc. Also, a review of road traffic deaths in Kildare involving drivers of cars, vans and motorcycles between 1998 and 2009 shows that one in 10 drivers (9.8pc) killed had a positive toxicology result for drugs. The analysis was carried out by the Medical Bureau of Road Safety, which analyses blood and urine samples taken from motorists suspected of driving under the influence. The lack of transport in many rural areas is cited as a factor in higher drink and drug driving rates. Spokesman with Irish Rural Link, James Claffey, said local hackney licences should be issued to help provide transport services, along with additional public buses and incentives for publicans who want to invest in transport. "There simply isn't the transport there in terms of taxis. If you're planning on going out, you have to plan days in advance to get home," he said. "We would look for more initiatives like the local hackney licence which gives reduced rates to local people trying to start up, and for more support. "The reason for the statistics is the lack of public transport. There is demand for buses home from pubs, and there probably should be some initiative there to help road safety. "It's at a level now where drink driving is not tolerated, as it shouldn't be, but people are taking a risk and that just cannot continue." Last year, Kerry County Council voted to allow Gardai issue permits to people living in isolated parts of the county so they could drive home after drinking alcohol. The plan, proposed by independent councillor Danny Healy-Rae, was dismissed by the Department of Transport which said stricter limits had led to a reduction in deaths on the roads. The current drink driving limit is 50mg of alcohol per 100ml for blood, which falls to 20mg for learner and professional drivers. Learners and professionals caught over the limit are hit with three penalty points, a €200 fine and a three-month driving ban. Other motorists caught with a blood alcohol reading between 50mgs and 80mgs are hit with three penalty points and a €200 fine. If a driver accumulates 12 points in a three-year period, they are disqualified for 12 months. Drivers above the 80mg are fined €400, and an automatic six-month driving ban is imposed. Those with a reading above 100mgs face an automatic court appearance and a 12-month ban. In addition, fines of up to €5,000 and/or six months in imprisonment can be imposed. THE figures are based on data from the Central Statistics Office (CSO), which was recorded by An Garda Siochana. It compiles information on the number of motorists recorded as driving, or in charge of, a vehicle while over the legal alcohol limit. It also retains data on the numbers recorded as driving, or in charge of, a vehicle while under the influence of drugs. The data dates from January 2004 to June 2014, and is based on information from each garda station in the country. In all, statistics from 565 stations are included today and tomorrow. The information was then used to assess the rate of drink driving and drug driving per county, which is based on the number of driving licences held by motorists in each county as of December 2013. The total number of incidents in each county over the decade was assessed against the number of driving licences in each county, and a rate per 1,000 population was applied. The breakdown shows the number of motorists caught with alcohol or drugs in each Garda station in Leinster. The county by county table details the rate per 1,000 population. Details for Munster, Connacht and Ulster are included in tomorrow's Irish Independent. * Full 10-year station-by-station figures are available for each county under station-level breakdown, click the link for full details.  Irish Independent 
