drugs
{ Deirdre Reynolds 
    March 05 2015 02:44 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/health-wellbeing/is-this-the-jab-to-end-battle-of-the-bulge-31043429.html }
Could this be the jab that revolutionises Ireland's battle of the bulge? An injectable drug previously used to treat diabetes has just been green-lit by the European Medicines Agency for the treatment of obesity. Now the UCD Professor involved in researching the medicine has told how it could help reverse the nation's ballooning waistline when it's expected to become available on prescription here later this year. "This is a really good news story for Ireland," says Professor Carel le Roux of the UCD Diabetes Complication Research Centre (DCRC), who took part in a groundbreaking SCALE Obesity and Pre-diabetes study into the drug. "We have not had a new drug for obesity in the last 10 years, and this is the first time that we have a drug that makes physiological sense. I'm very excited about this drug." Generically known as liraglutide, the once-daily injectable drug is currently used for the treatment of type 2 diabetes under the name Victoza. By almost tripling the dosage however, researchers found that it could affect weight loss too, notably among patients with pre-diabetes. "As a treatment for diabetes, we have been using [liraglutide] for the last five years or more," tells Dr le Roux, who's also a consultant at St Vincent's University Hospital in Dublin, "but actually to use it now for obesity is novel." "When we treat people with diabetes, we give them either 0.6, 1.2 or 1.8mg, but now patients in studies were tried on a higher dose - 3mg - of liraglutide. "Although it's an injection that goes under the skin, it actually has effects inside the brain," he explains. "With the new drug, we replace a natural hormone that may contribute to obesity if it is too low in the gut. "Natural GLP-1 that comes from the gut goes directly to the brain and makes you feel full. People who are obese don't have enough of this natural hormone, so very often they don't feel full when they've eaten. "Basically, the drug mimics a meal so your body is under the impression that you've eaten more than you really did," adds the medic. "Therefore, you feel full and, of course, if you feel full you eat less food, and if you eat less food you lose weight. 'For the first time, we can actually use the natural signals of the body to help the brain -which is really the organ that is struggling with obesity." Stateside, Danish pharmaceutical company Novo Nordisk's obesity therapy has already been approved for use in adults with a body mass index (BMI) of 30 or greater, as well as adults with a BMI of 27 or greater who also have at least one weight-related condition such as high cholesterol. Clinical trials presented at the European Association for the Study of Diabetes, meanwhile, showed how a third of patients shed a tenth of their body weight over the course of a year on the new version of the drug known as Saxenda. "If we line up a hundred people who are all eligible and we give them the drug, about a third of them will lose 10pc of their body weight," tells Dr le Roux, "and that is associated with very impressive improvements in health. "Fifteen per cent of patients will lose 15pc of their weight - but you have to keep taking the drug to maintain the weight loss. "One of the groups that benefits most are people who have pre-diabetes - people who are at risk of developing diabetes - because weight loss can often stop them developing diabetes," he continues. "Prevention is always better than cure. If we can prevent diabetes, we can also prevent the complications of diabetes - that's really where this drug can make a massive difference." Elsewhere at NUI Galway, a three-year component of the SCALE clinical trial into the efficacy of Saxenda for weight management wound down this week. Although it's not yet known whether participants in the double-blind trial were given the drug or placebo, principal investigator Dr Francis Finucane believes: "This is an important development for patients who are affected by obesity - no question about that. It's a drug that's already been in widespread clinical use for several years now. We're just using a slightly different dose in a slightly different group of people. "As investigators, we don't know if [participants in the trial] were on active treatment or placebo - we won't find out until after the analysis of the data in about 50 days. "I think it would be wrong to [say] this drug will replace other strategies for weight loss," he adds. "A lot of patients did very well despite possibly being on placebo because they [also] got intensive lifestyle modification. "The fundamental cornerstone of addressing obesity problems has to be lifestyle modification. This drug augments lifestyle modification - it certainly doesn't replace it. "We have to look at it that way or it's not going to work very well." Nausea, constipation and gallstones caused by rapid weight loss are just some of the possible side effects of the prescription-only drug. With triple the active ingredient, Saxenda could also cost three times as much as Victoza warns Dr le Roux: "Most likely, this is going to be a very expensive drug, and the reason for that is straightforward mathematics. "Like all drugs, it can be effective but it can also have some side effects, so we want to give the drug to people that are eligible and could benefit most from weight loss. "We need to be able to make this drug available in public hospitals, but it has to be done in a sensible way not to bankrupt the entire country; what we don't want is a two-tiered system where the drug only becomes available to private patients. "Our problem with obesity drugs is there have been so many false dawns, where drugs have come on the market and had to be withdrawn two or three years later because of side effects," he adds. "One of the most important things that we need to do is to set up a system where we can initially follow every patient in the country that has been prescribed the drug to make sure they get the benefits with minimal risk, but also for the HSE to know they are getting value for money." In December, Saxenda became the fourth anti-obesity drug cleared by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the US since 2012. Despite being dubbed "a miracle daily diet jab", Professor le Roux insists it's not a 'quick fix' for Ireland's fat fighters: "This is not a 'shoot and forget' drug. It needs to be carefully prescribed and patients need to be carefully followed. Some people may say, 'Oh, this is an easy way out', but it's not an easy way out - it's a harder way out. Nobody wants to take medication and be exposed to potential side effects. "I'm yet to meet anybody that is severely overweight who wants to be severely overweight. I'm probably yet to meet anybody who's severely overweight who hasn't tried to lose weight in the past. "Losing weight is easy, maintaining weight loss is very hard," he adds. "If you start the drug, you have to keep taking it for the rest of your life because the minute you stop taking the drug, all the positive effects that happen in the brain go away." "I guess like any drug there is a potential for it to be used erroneously or over-­enthusiastically," says Dr Finucane, consultant endocrinologist at Galway University Hospital. "I think the challenge is going to be identifying what specific patients will benefit most from this drug, especially in the context of economic consideration." "The first rule is always: 'Do no harm'," agrees Dr le Roux. "I think it's going to be a very good drug for people, but we have a responsibility to get it right from the beginning. "By no means is this the easy way out. It's a harder way, but it is a proven way." Indo Review 
