drugs
{  
    August 03 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/region-has-lowest-illegal-drugs-use-27536583.html }
The North West has been identified as the region with the lowest level of illegal drug use in the country. The country’s first Drug Prevalence Survey found that within both the last twelve months and within the last month, the North Western Health Board area had the lowest rate of illegal drug use, while the lowest rates of recent alcohol use were also recorded in this region. However, recent and current rates of use of sedatives, tranquillisers and anti-depressants were somewhat higher in this region than the national rates. Tobacco prevalence rates in this region were at the lower end of the national rates, in particular among females and young people. Commenting on the findings, Ms. Bernie Hyland of the North Western Health Board said: “For people of the North West to be highlighted as living in the region with the lowest substance use could lead us to a level of complacency concerning substance use in the region.  Challenges “One of the challenges for professionals will be keeping this information in context. Comparisons should not only be with national prevalence rates but also with European rates, especially when we look at where Ireland features on the consumption of alcohol within a European context”. The Drugs Prevalence Survey was commissioned jointly by the National Advisory Committee on Drug in Ireland and the Drug and Alcohol Information and Research Unit in Northern Ireland. A total number of 8,442 people aged 15-64 were surveyed between October 2002 and April 2003. “The publication of this data gives us a regional breakdown of drug prevalence in Ireland, based on health board areas, thus adding significantly to our knowledge and understanding of drug use across the country. The survey confirms the fact that the vast majority of people in Ireland have never used illegal drugs.  Rural “The results also highlight the fact that drug use is not confined to major cities. Drug use is an issue for communities, both urban and rural, throughout the country”, Ms. Hyland said. The key findings of the research showed that cannabis was the most widely used illegal drug. In addition, in almost all health board areas, cannabis use was higher among young adults (15-34) than older adults (35-64). The research also indicated that in general, men reported higher prevalence rates of drug use than women. On a regional basis, drug prevalence rates were higher in the Eastern part of the country. In this region, rates were substantially lower than the corresponding national figures. Apart from cannabis, highest levels of lifetime use were recorded for magic mushrooms (2%), and poppers, solvents and ecstasy (1%). No heroin, cocaine or crack use was reported by those surveyed, and magic mushrooms was the only drug, apart from cannabis, whose use was reported in the past year. Ms. Hyland pointed out that from treatment data, they were aware of opiate and cocaine use in the North West. However, it was at very low levels.  Low She said the survey corroborated the Health Board’s own position that there was drug use in the region, but it was at low levels. “In digesting the information contained in the report, it would be prudent to note the level of disposable income people have in the North West compared to other regions. This, along with factors such as rural area and age population in this region, needs to be considered for future planning of substance use strategies for the region. “The North Western Health Board has advocated a strong philosophy of prevention and education in relation to substance use. This thinking has made a significant contribution in the North West being recorded as the region with the lowest substance use in the country, and it is an achievement the Board and staff working in the substance use area should take pride in”, she concluded 
