drugs
{  
    October 01 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/health-board-appoint-outreach-worker-for-drugs-27449417.html }
The Mid-Western Health Board has stepped up its campaign against drug abuse and has appointed an outreach worker in Tipperary. She will promote awareness of HIV, Drug use, and Sexual Health through education, information and support to local communities and individuals. Deirdre will work with the health board’s three other outreach workers Mark Campbell, who has been assigned to County Clare and Kevin O’Callaghan from Newcastlewest. The three appointments have been made as a result of the National Drug Strategy 2001 – 2008. Outreach Work is a relatively new profession. It was developed in the US in the 1950s as a response to the problems of street gangs. In more recent times Outreach Work has been focussed on contacting drug users who might not otherwise be in contact with services to prevent or reduce the harm caused to the individual and their family as a result of drug use. As the Outreach Worker for North Tipperary, Deirdre Dundon will act as a first point of contact for local people concerned about their drug use or that of a family member or friend. Deirdre will provide information, support and referrals where appropriate for drug users, their families, concerned persons and members of the community. She will also provide drug education and awareness programmes to various community groups in the region. Among the projects Deirdre is currently involved in is a twelve-week programme with young men on drug awareness, which focuses on their attitude and behaviours towards drugs, including alcohol. Deirdre will also work with parents to discuss with them what they should do if they suspect that their child may be involved in drugs. As the local outreach worker, Deirdre works as the link between the individual and the counsellor and her primary role is to provide relevant information and support to the community. After an assessment is carried out by a counsellor the individual may be referred onto other appropriate services that could assist in whatever way is most appropriate. A drop-in centre will be opening in Roscrea 2000 ltd. Every Tuesday 2-5pm commencing October 29th 2002. It is anticipated that this centre will operate for people to come in and have a chat about their own drug use or that of a family or friend and get all the support and information they require. It is hoped that similar services will be set up in other areas in the future. According to Deirdre “younger people in the general age group of 14-15 do not consider alcohol to be a drug. They don’t see any huge issues with cannabis use and generally are aware that harder drugs such as cocaine and heroin could carry serious health risks.” She adds that there is a huge stigma attached to heroin as its considered a ‘dirty drug’ and that all drug users are often reluctant to seek help due to fear of being judged. 
