drugs
{  
    February 14 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/drug-problems-worse-than-ever-27821270.html }
Arklow's drugs problem is worst than it has ever been with the town overrun by heroin cocaine and cannabis as well as prescribed drugs, according to a local councillor. Hardly a week passes without another young person being hooked on heroin and young people have to be rushed by ambulance to hospital on a regular basis for treatment after overdosing. In the last fortnight a young Arklow man very nearly died as a result of his addiction to drugs. His heart had stopped beating and tragedy was only averted by the swift action of the dedicated ambulance crew who got the young man's heart beating again. Cllr. Peter Dempsey, who spearheaded the AAD marches against drugs and drug pushers five years ago, this week said that he hoped that it was not too late 'to turn back the evil tide of drugs that has blighted our town and our youth for far too long. It is up to everyone to play their part in this because as sure as little apples fall off trees, the problem will come to your door' Loving parents 'It is no use pointing the finger at any of these young drug offenders' he said. 'They were raised by loving parents who would do anything to get them off the dreaded drugs. Their biggest regret was learning too late that their son or daughter was on drugs' Cllr. Dempsey said. 'There is someone out there that is making large amounts of money from our kids sickness' Cllr Dempsey added. 'There are people who are aware of who these are and it is up to people to inform the gardai. 'Underage drinking, which is also becoming a serious problem, is going to have to be tackled head on too. 'Anyone found serving underage people drink should lose their licences. We know that there are older people buying the drink for them and these people should be brought before the courts.' According to the councillor, the Gardai in Arklow are understaffed and the members work long hours. And when they bring offenders to court, they find that the magistrate imposes a small fine to go to the Garda Benevolent Fund. The offender does not see this as a deterrent, they are back out getting into more trouble and more addicted to drugs. Cllr. Dempsey says that the law will have to be changed. Instead of jail sentences, the young offenders should be sent to drug free rehabilitation programmes, and given a chance to make a clean break. 'They should not be kept on the long finger, brought back to court every couple of months. That system is failing our young people' he declared. 'After all a crime should be punishable at the time it is committed and not two or three years later. Otherwise the lesson is lost'. 'The amount of times our ambulance has been called out over the last 12 months to young people overdosing on drugs is just shocking' he said. 'We are lucky to have an ambulance in Arklow or there would be many fatalities. I know personally of tragedies being avoided by the swift action of the dedicated ambulance men'. 'It has now got to the stage where the ordinary man and woman is afraid to walk out at night' he said. 'There are parts of Arklow which are fast becoming no go areas'. According to Cllr. Dempsey we need a proper after-care programme for persons after they have gone through the detox programme, otherwide they are wasting the time of the Rehabilitation Centre. Scourge More counsellors are needed and Anon is badly needed in the area. He said he knew of one or two people who have beaten the scourge of drugs and were now trying to give something back to society and he greatly welcomed and encourage such efforts. 'These people have a lot to offer' he said. Aware that he might be accused of scaremongering, Cllr. Dempsey said he was still prepared to take that chance and speak out. 'It is not always the one in the scruffy clothes that is pushing drugs. It is fast becoming a white collar job. It's time the Council and Town Hall officials had the courage to evict from local authority houses people they know are dealing in drugs and engaging in anti-social behaviour. Such an action might be the first step towards winning the battle against the scourge of drugs'. 
