drugs
{  
    March 08 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/town-council-plan-second-meeting-with-drugs-task-force-26904689.html }
The  North East Regional Drugs Task Force, which was set up in 2003, is an inter-agency partnership comprising community, voluntary and statutory representatives who aim to identify and address gaps in addiction service provision in the region. Task Force co-ordinator Andy Ogle was appointed in November, having previously with Community Awareness of Drugs in Dublin, and is th The North East Regional Drugs Task Force, which was set up in 2003, is an inter-agency partnership comprising community, voluntary and statutory representatives who aim to identify and address gaps in addiction service provision in the region. Task Force co-ordinator Andy Ogle was appointed in November, having previously with Community Awareness of Drugs in Dublin, and is the first full-time regional task force co-ordinator to be employed in the country. The Task Force also has a new chairperson, Michael Walsh, a former SIPTU official, and vice-chairperson, Shaun Lynch, a retired farmer, company director and former county councillor from Duleek. Their appointments have been welcomed by Andy who says “both Michael and Shaun, with their experience of working with large inter-agency committees, involving public service agencies and community-based organisations, will enable us to continue to develop and improve the resources this region so badly needs. They will help guide the task force, allowing us to provide a co-ordinated response to the difficulties posed by substance misuse in the region. This work will proceed in consultation with those working in the addictions field, allied professionals and the community”. The objectives of the North East Drugs Task Force echo those of the National Drug Strategy, being based on the four pillars of education and prevention, supply reduction, treatment, and research. In line with this, the Task Force is looking for submissions from community and voluntary organisations to develop project proposals on four prioritised issues:   Treatment for young people, including family therapy and community integration  Substance use education programmes which specifically target parents and carers  Substance use education programmes which specifically target young people in out-of-school settings  Peer support groups for drug service users and those not currently in contact with any addiction service. The task force is currently liaising with a number of community and voluntary organisations in order to help them develop their project proposals in these areas. As co-ordinator of the NE Regional Drugs Task Force, Andy welcomes the opportunity to meet with members of Dundalk Town Council and those involved in the delivery of services to drug users in the Dundalk area. While he accepts that the local councillors would like to see Dundalk having its own local drugs task force, he says that it is unlikely to happen until the current National Drugs Strategy comes to an end in 2008. However, he says that all those involved should come together to see what areas they would like to see being prioritised. While limited funding has been allocated to the Regional Drugs Task Force, he says that there are Rapid Areas in Dundalk could prove another source of funding for projects. “I’m anxious to get out and meet as many groups and individuals as possible to see what’s needed in Dundalk.” Andy feels that facilities for young people and peer-led services for drug users are areas which need to be explored. Noting that while the Gardai have reported a 30 per cent increase in the amount of heroin being seized in the area, he points out that alcohol remains the most commonly abused drug, and not just among young people. He also identified the need for GPs to get involved in the administering of methadone to recovering addicts. 
