drugs
{  
    February 22 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/random-drug-and-alcohol-tests-on-students-proposed-by-kehoe-27434109.html }
WEXFORD Deputy Paul Kehoe has called on the Department of Education to provide resources to schools in County Wexford which want to introduce random drug and alcohol testing. 'Schools who decide, in consultation with parents, to introduce random voluntary drug and alcohol testing to curb drug misuse among their students should be given the necessary resources to help them put this system into practice,' said Deputy Kehoe. He said that young people today have easier access to drugs and alcohol than at any time in our history. 'Sixteen per cent of boys and 12 per cent of girls in the 12 to 14 age group are regular drinkers, while in the 15 to 17 age group half of boys and girls are regular drinkers,' said the Deputy, Fine Gael's Chief Whip. 'In addition, there is documented use of cocaine, cannabis, ecstasy and opiates by 15 year olds, and these drugs are undoubtedly being used by younger children also.' Deputy Kehoe said that in other countries, systems of random voluntary drug and alcohol testing in schools have had some very positive results, acting as a strong deterrent to drug taking and students performing better in their exams. 'The existence of voluntary random drug and alcohol testing schemes in other countries has also counteracted 'peer pressure', with young people being able to refuse to experiment on the basis that there is a very real chance that they might be caught. Therefore, this would give young people, who otherwise would feel pressurised into taking drugs or alcohol, a way to just say no. This is important as 'peer pressure' is the main reason why young people experiment with drugs for the first time.' 'While alcohol has, traditionally, been the drug of choice in Ireland, growing ambivalence towards harder drugs, particularly cocaine, is one of the greatest challenges we now face. 'The lack of facilities in this county for young people adds greatly to this problem. Unless real alternatives, in the form of more youth centres and sports clubs, are put in place our young people who have nothing else to do, but lots of time to do it in, and will find it very hard to resist the allure of the quick hit.' The Deputy said that in addition to supporting the right of schools and parents to introduce random voluntary drug and alcohol testing, Fine Gael's approach to tackling Ireland's drug problem includes that all schools have access to a School Drug Advisor or Community Worker. These people, he said, would be tasked with the responsibility to assist schools in delivering substance abuse education and support services to address pupil's and teacher's needs. 'At a time of unprecedented pressure on our young people, the time has come to empower young people, parents and schools in the fight against drugs and alcohol. Instead of continually applying the same rigid and inflexible policies to all schools,' he said. 
