drugs
{  
    January 08 2008 03:36 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/think-about-the-consequences-before-using-says-councillor-27478759.html }
ONE NEW Ross Town Councillor is calling on all drug users and potential users to think of all the people who have died because of drug use before they reach for their next hit.Fine Gael's Cllr. Victor Furness is urging drug users and potential users to open up and speak out in a bid to crack down on drug use in the town. ONE NEW Ross Town Councillor is calling on all drug users and potential users to think of all the people who have died because of drug use before they reach for their next hit. Fine Gael's Cllr. Victor Furness is urging drug users and potential users to open up and speak out in a bid to crack down on drug use in the town. We have to do something. It is a serious matter. If we could get through to people to think before they try drugs and to think of the people who have died because of it,' said Victor. If we could get people to think before they take a drug, why are they doing this and to get them to realise the deaths that have occurred because of drugs. If people could just think of the lives left behind they may not be so selfish and greedy. Drug users are destroying their whole life and their family's lives,' he said. Obviously people know it is going on. People shouldn't be afraid to talk. It needs to be talked about because the more you talk about it the better it gets. If people speak up others will know who is using drugs,' he added. Cllr. Furness feels that the the problem with drug use and abuse is getting worse in New Ross and although he feels it will never be stopped a huge effort can be put in place to try stop drug abuse. This will never be stopped but we can try our best to stop it. If we can save one life that would be fantastic,' said Victor. There is every sort of drug in the town. It is very prevalent in society and it is getting worse. The Gardaí are doing everything they possibly can to help the situation in town but it is growing so fast that they cannot possibly keep up. It is all over the town. It's in all societies and in all walks of life. The Gardaí need the public's support,' he added. One possible solution to tackling this problem is education at both Primary and Secondary level, according to Victor. I think it is frightening the effect that drugs are having on our young people today. Drug awareness needs to be taught at schools. It needs to be part of the curriculum and the Government must act now and do a programme for schools before it is too late and I don't just mean at Secondary Schools I mean at Primary Schools also,' he said. 
