drugs
{  
    July 05 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/task-force-outlines-strategy-to-tackle-growing-drugs-problems-27527589.html }
By Maria Tracey Ecstasy and cannabis offences are higher in the North West than in the rest of country, it has been revealed. An Garda Siochana statistics released at the launch of the Northwest Regional Drugs Task Force's strategic plan last Wednesday, revealed that cannabis related offences were seven per cent higher in the North West and ecstasy five per cent in comparison to the rest of the country. The launch of the regional task force's strategic plan also revealed that over half of all drug offences in 2003 within the North West were cannabis related with just under a quarter being ecstasy. The study also showed that last year, the region had the highest prevalence of anti depressant and magic mushrooms. However, the North West, which comprises of Sligo, Leitrim and Donegal, had the second lowest rate in terms of underage drinking. Speaking to the Sligo Champion at the launch, NWRDTF's co-ordinator, Sean O'Connor said that the statistics showed how drug usage can reflect the type of area that people live in, Sligo being a prime example with both its rural and urban communities. "There is a possibility that in rural areas, people may cultivate their own cannabis in a local farm," he said. Also Mr O'Connor highlighted that the influx of tourist into the county may also bring additional drugs into the area. Prominent He added that college cities, such as Letterkenny and Sligo could be feeding the ecstasy scene that is now prominent in the North West. "Here young people will be experimenting with life and drugs and if they buy one drug they might get cocaine for free and soon dependency begins." However, as part of the NWRDTF's Strategic Plan, a number of measures are set to be introduced to reduce the negative impact of drug misuse and underage alcohol. These include supply reduction, treatment and education. Mr O'Connor stressed that while large drug seizures have been obtained by the Gardai recently, more needed to be done on the issue. He highlighted the need for a sub committee, made up of representatives from Customs and Excise and the Gardai, with the authority to initiate actions aimed at supply reduction. Lobbying for greater enforcement of existing legislation such as underage drinking laws and consistency of court penalties were also stressed. In terms of education, Mr O'Connor said that some parents were "naive" when it comes to their children, and stressed that drug abuse could be taking place within their own homes. "Young people need role models and if they don't find one at home then they will go outside it for one. "And if there is someone negative in their area, they will then latch on to them," said Mr O'Connor. EDUCATION He added that if both reduction of supply and education were successful this would then limit the need for treatment in the area. "There is a need in Sligo for preventative measures because if we don't tackle these issues now, we will then be just pouring money into treatment instead." Sligo Gaelic Football manager, Tommy Breheny was among those promoting the need for a more proactive approach and highlighted the importance of sport in young people's lives. "Living in a large urban area, one can see the social pressures and temptations for teenagers to experiment in drugs and underage drinking. "I feel more should be done to encourage all children to take part in sports as I believe this is the right environment for these children to be involved and they will have less time to get involved in other social problems," he said. Mr Breheny added that last year's campaign by Tubbercurry GAA Club "Say No to Drugs" proved a great success, and showed young people it was "OK to be different". "We're just urging young people to wait until they turn 18 and make up their mind at that stage." Fr Sean Cassin of the National Drug Strategy Team added that it wasn't "enough to say no to drugs" and harm reduction needed to be instated. Community Forum Representative, Ann Donegan added that the community felt at a "loss of what to do about underage drinking. "We feel unequipped to deal with drug abuse and don't really know where to turn for help," she said. She also highlighted the need for a proactive stance and added that support, information and education needed to be more widely assessable to "direct young people to alternative lifestyles".  PLAN As a result of last week's launch, Chairperson of NWRDTF, Loman Conway called on community groups in Sligo, Donegal and Leitrim to rally together behind the new strategic plan and harness the efforts of those working with drug and underage alcohol awareness projects in the region. Students in the 18 plus age group are also being encouraged to participate. "This plan is a call to action, through partnership and co-operation, for every person in the North West to work together to reduce the impact on individuals, families and the communities of drugs misuse and underage drinking," he said. The committee is hoped to be established within the next two months and those looking for more information can contact Sean O'Connor at 071 9852000. 
