drugs
{ Olivia Ryan 
    March 16 2019 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/families-living-in-fear-are-paying-drug-dealers-up-to-40000-37901025.html }
A local family paid up over €40,000 to clear their daughter's drug debts after facing ongoing intimidation by dealers, a meeting of the Dundalk Joint Policing Committee heard last week. The frightening level of intimidation and fear families face was highlighted, as calls for people to report any threats made to the gardai. Cllr. Ruairi O'Murchu told the meeting that he and other councillors were being contacted by families facing severe intimidation by ruthless dealers. He said he was actively working with families who were paying off thousands of euro in debt. Many endured attacks on their home, and threats, said Cllr O'Murchu. He added that he was aware of one man who had paid out over €40,000 to dealers in an attempt to clear his daughter's drug debts. 'People are afraid, they are embarrassed, they just want it to go away, so they pay.' But he added that paying up often wasn't the end of the problem, as gangs often come back looking for more. He appealed to families who were in situations such as these to report it to the gardai, even if they are intending to pay. He also warned drug users, people who might occasionally take illegal substances, and feel they are not causing harm to 'consider the role they play' in the ongoing issues drugs cause in local communities. 'It is causing huge problems. I would like to highlight this to people who think they are not contributing to it, just because they are buying from a friend, or someone they know.' Louth's Garda Chief Supt. Christy Mangan said they have  figures on the  'threats to kills' being made over drug debts. 'Invariably it starts with a child or young adult not being able to pay their debts, and the cycle of intimidation begins from there.' Supt. Mangan added: 'We really want to engage with families. Drug dealers won't go away, once they know the tap is open, they will keep coming back.' He pointed out that latest crime figures showed there was a significant increase in offences in Louth relating to the 'sale or supply' of drugs, adding that   it impacted 'all walks of life.' 'We need to break the gang culture around drugs. Often, when you have vulnerable families, the easiest way for vulnerable children is with these gangs. It might work for awhile, but eventually they become victims.' He encouraged families who were facing intimidation from dealers to talk to the gardai about their situation, adding 'We want to be a listening ear.' Cllr. Peter Savage added that drugs  were a problem at secondary schools, but it was now an issue that was emerging in national schools. He asked if gardai were repeatedly seeing problems emerge in the same areas. JPC member John Temple suggested  that a dedicated phone number to report drug dealing might be a beneficial way to tackle some of these problems at schools. He added that 'almost every single teenager has a phone' and it was the most common way for them to              communicate.  However, Chief Supt. Mangan said that there were already a number of phonelines available to report all manner of crimes.  He said the confidential telephone number wasn't overly used as it is. But it is available as a means of reporting crimes such as drug dealing. He added that gardai also have a drugs awareness  programme which is run in schools.  Supt. Gerry Curley, who leads the Dundalk District Gardai, explained that a system has been in place for some times, where officers patrol areas of the town where there are a large concentration of schools. He said these patrols would be carried out in the morning times as kids head into school, and when  schools close in the afternoon.   These patrols were aimed at deterring and catching any illegal activity around areas where there are large numbers of children and young people, including  attempts to sell or supply drugs.  The Argus 
