drugs
{ Jimmy Guerin 
    July 27 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/ireland-a-soft-touch-for-drug-traffickers-26242771.html }
Jimmy  Guerin meets the dealers responsible for a surge in cocaine AT A Dublin city-centre hotel, his driver picks me up. We do not travel far, a few minutes of driving, before the dealer joins us. He tells me not to tape-record the conversation, and I agree. It has taken a string of telephone calls and cancelled appointments to get this close to the story. As we drive, I listen to one of Europe's leading cocaine dealers tell me about a surge in the Irish cocaine trade. The man I am listening to is of French origin, a leading light in gangs which operate out of France and Belgium. His overlords, however, are from Colombia, the trigger-happy capital of a deadly trafficking empire. That country now has a direct role in getting cocaine to Irish addicts. While the dealer's car cruises Dublin's streets, he tells me of a new network, and a new menace that gardai will have to fight. The rules of conversation defined, the man discusses details of the drugs trade almost casually. He tells me of imports that arrive almost daily to fuel a growing market. As the use of ecstasy falls in Ireland, cocaine use has risen. My contact reveals the drug gangs' new methods. "We are eliminating the middleman," the dealer says, explaining a plan to cut larger European gangs out of the cocaine trade. "We are forming many local partnerships with drug dealers all over Europe. We have formed many such arrangements in a number of cities in Ireland, and as a result the Colombians are more than doubling their profits." Up to now, most Irish dealers bought their cocaine supplies from Amsterdam, paying in the region of {ðE}25,000 per kilo. Payment was upfront; the cash had to be handed over prior to shipment and if the drugs were seized by customs or police the buyer would suffer the loss. Profits were so large, however, that it was a calculated risk. The huge sums involved meant dealers could afford a number of seizures. The old ways, however, are slowly changing. While a large amount of cocaine still enters Ireland through conventional routes, more now comes in smaller quantities of six kilos or under. The dealer who represents the Colombian cartel explained the logic behind the new methods. He had identified a number of Irish dealers in Dublin, Cork and Limerick, and sold them up to six kilos of cocaine at just {ðE}5,000 a kilo. To make up the margin, the dealers paid back a 50 per cent share of their profits. The new deal carries obvious benefits for pushers. Dealers need only find a {ðE}5,000 initial outlay per kilo, and there is no risk of a large consignment being lost if drugs are discovered. A Garda source confirmed the growth of the cocaine market, saying more and more young people were turning to the drug, once the narcotic of choice only for the super-rich. The source said gardai fear the cartels are discovering new ways of hiding the drugs and bringing them into Ireland. One recent case involved a carrier who admitted he was carrying cocaine inside his packed clothing. The clothes had to be treated in a special way to recover the drugs, a technique currently unavailable to garda forensic specialists. After being held in Mountjoy, the man was released on instructions from the Director of Public Prosecutions. Most of the cocaine that reaches Ireland makes its final journey here from countries such as Spain, where holidaymakers are picked out by drug gangs and offered large sums to carry cocaine. The cost to the local dealer is {ðE}1,500 per kilo, and this amount is paid to the courier. Gangs have identified tourists who would not be suspected of carrying drugs if they happen to be profiled by customs officers. The drugs are vacuum-packed into plastic and then wrapped in pieces of white clothing. They are difficult to detect on X-ray machines. The dealer told me trafficking routes were identified after a number of dummy runs. The drug gangs were satisfied there was little or no scrutiny of holidaymakers returning from package tours. I pressed for details of the financial arrangements with Irish dealers. The cartel dealer said gangs visit Ireland regularly, and make their own arrangements to ship out the money collected here. He added that legitimate investments have been identified to launder the cash. DRUG trafficking has become easier in the EU in the past few years, he said, as border checkpoints have been removed. The introduction of the euro this year has also helped smugglers, as it is no longer necessary to risk unwanted attention by exchanging large sums of money. Cocaine trafficking may be changing, but the nature of a clandestine trade ensures a deadly undercurrent still operates with the new methods. When I asked the dealer what would happen if a pusher refused to hand over his share of the profits, he refused to speculate. It could not happen, he told me. It was pointless to speculate. It simply would not happen. I thought of the three Irishmen who suffered a savage death after falling out with a drug cartel in Amsterdam. The new trafficking methods have done nothing to eliminate the fear that surrounds the drugs trade, and concern seems justified that a new type of violence might yet accompany Ireland's unwanted brush with the drug lords of a distant continent. 
