drugs
{ Kathy Donaghy 
    April 27 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/225bn-in-drugs-flooding-streets-claim-26091645.html }
A SENIOR union leader has attacked the Government over the "lack of resources" committed to agencies fighting  drugs. Only 10pc of drugs destined for the country's streets are detected, John Rossiter, president of the Public Service Executive Union which represents some 17,500 managers in the public sector told its annual conference in Waterford yesterday. While more than £250m worth of illegal drugs had been seized over the last eight years, "simple arithmetic" showed it was possible to estimate at least £2.25bn worth of drugs made it onto the streets, declared Mr Rossiter. "This is a shocking state of affairs, a national scandal." The Coalition had allocated well over £100m for sporting organisations and a further £10m for acquisition of historical artefacts. "Allocation of a small proportion of these amounts to the agencies involved in the fight against drugs would make a big difference to the future of the nation, particularly the children," said the PSEU chief. "It really makes me angry when I see the effects of drugs and lack of resources committed to agencies fighting this cancer on our society. This is surely more important than large stadia, or egos." Mr Rossiter called on Finance Minister Charlie McCreevy and the Revenue Commissioners to "fully accept their responsibilities to all of us and our families" and allocate substantial extra resources to "crack down properly on this nefarious trade." Such a national crisis warranted at least as serious a response by way of resources as the foot-and-mouth crisis, said the union chief, pointing out that since May 1999 one of Dublin's newest Garda drugs units had seized more than £20m worth of drugs. Last night, however, Eoin Ryan, the minister with responsibility for the Government's drugs strategy, said money was not an issue in dealing with the drugs problem. Last year £140m had gone into tackling drugs across all Government departments. Declared Mr Ryan: "£15m has been given to new local drug task forces, £8m for a further 150 locally based projects, £10m for prevention plans and another £10m for plans like after-school projects. "I'm not getting complaints from communities we're failing to give them money to tackle the drugs problem. That's not the reaction I'm getting on the ground. It's a complex area which has suffered neglect over the past 30 years. But we're trying to rebuild services and there's a new holistic approach to tackling drugs. I don't believe money is lacking." A Revenue spokeswoman said drugs and all smuggling operations were under constant review. "A major review carried out last year is now being implemented under a steering group." * Stormont's Assembly now wants drug dealers put on a register like paedophiles. 
