drugs
{ Dan White 
    August 27 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/court-award-casts-doubts-on-drug-firms-26212060.html }
WHILE the Texas jury's award of US $253m (?207m) to the widow of a man who had taken its Vioxx painkiller will almost certainly be reduced on appeal, things don't look good for Merck, the manufacturer of Vioxx. Its shares fell by 8 per cent after the verdict was announced and are down by almost 40 per cent since Merck was forced to take Vioxx off the market last September. Merck isn't the only major pharmaceutical company with problems. All of the major drug manufacturers are battling with lawyers acting for clients claiming to have been injured as a result of using their products. A year ago, a report was published linking GlaxoSmithKline's anti-depressant drug Seroxat with an increased risk of suicide among teenagers. Pfizer has paid out an estimated $1bn (?819m) to settle lawsuits brought by users of its Rezulin diabetes treatment, which was pulled from the market in 2000. Eli Lilly has set aside ?565m to settle legal cases brought by patients being treated with its Zyprexa antipsychotic drug. Johnson & Johnson has already paid out ?106m to settle cases brought by users of its heartburn drug Propulsid, withdrawn in 2000, though analysts reckon that the final cost could hit $1bn (?819m). While these look like big numbers, investors would be delighted if Merck could limit the financial cost of the Vioxx debacle to "only" ?819m. Right now, that doesn't look possible, with estimates of the cost of settling Vioxx-related cases ranging from ?4.1bn to ?41bn. Already there are fears that Vioxx will be the most expensive drug withdrawal ever, exceeding the ?18bn Wyeth is estimated to have paid for claims arising from its hypertension drug Pondomin. If the share price is any guide, then the final cost could come in at the higher end of the range. Since Vioxx was taken off the market 11 months ago Merck's market capitalisation has fallen by ?32.8bn from ?82.8bn to ?50bn. This collapse of confidence in Merck led to the "retirement" of chairman Richard Gilmartin in May, more than a year ahead of schedule. With the benefit of hindsight, it's now clear that Merck made an absolute hames of the Vioxx controversy. Internal company documents and emails unearthed during the Texas case show that the company was aware of potential risks of heart attacks and strokes from using Vioxx since at least 1998 - a year before the drug was launched, and six years before it was pulled from the market. Since Vioxx was first launched in 1999, over 25 million people have used the drug, with estimates of the number of people who have died due to complications running as high as 140,000. Elan's decision to withdraw its MS drug Tysabri from the market immediately when potential problems emerged last February is the only way to maintain investor and patient confidence in these situations. Delay can be fatal - in every sense. It was Merck's delay in withdrawing Vioxx, although it was aware of the dangers it posed to many of its users, that prompted the Texas jury to award ?207m to the widow of Robert Ernst. Ernst was a 59-year-old marathon runner who died in 2001 after taking Vioxx for only eight months to ease the pain caused by an arthritic knee. The award was made despite many pre-trial observers reckoning that the Ernst family had a weak case. While Merck has been worst hit by the fallout from Vioxx, the case also has potentially serious implications for some of the other major drug companies. Particularly vulnerable is Pfizer, whose Bextra and Celbrex painkillers are similar to Vioxx. Indeed, many of Merck's problems with Vioxx were almost certainly due to its desire to beat Pfizer to the market with a new generation of painkillers. While it could take years for the full implications of the Ernst verdict to become clear, the jury's decision is almost certain to hasten the end of the extremely profitable business model upon which the pharmaceutical companies have relied for over a century. Ever since in 1899 when Bayer unveiled Aspirin, the pharmaceutical companies have rolled out one blockbuster drug after another. Protected by patents for their first 15 to 20 years on the market, these blockbuster drugs have generated profit margins that other business can only dream of. In 2003 Merck recorded pre-tax profits of ?7.4bn on sales of ?18.4bn. That's a mouth watering pre-tax margin of 40 per cent. Those margins will almost certainly soon be a thing of the past. The pipeline of new blockbuster drugs that big pharma depends on to maintain its mega-margins is rapidly drying up. At the same time, their existing drugs are facing ever greater competition from much cheaper generic equivalents as their patents expire. The fact that many of the large drug companies are still obscenely profitable is almost certainly due more to accident than design. Pfizer has become the world's largest pharma firm largely due to the runaway success of its male potency drug Viagra. However, Viagra started life as a treatment for angina. It was only when researchers discovered the blue pills' . . . ahem . . . side-effects that the "Pfizer riser" was born. Investors shouldn't bet on this run of good luck continuing. Sell now before prices fall even further. 
