drugs
{ Charlie Weston 
    July 27 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/drugs-mark-up-of-50pc-is-a-bitter-pill-to-swallow-25977515.html }
Private customers are subsidising pharmacists, who earn little from medical card holders, by paying much more for the very same medicines on prescription TWO people walk into a shop. (And this is no joke!) One person has a card granted by the Government which means he or she gets their goods for nothing. The other person does not have such a valuable card and is obliged to pay through the nose for their goods. In fact, they are paying so much that their payment is subsidising the person getting the free goods. Sounds ridiculous? Well, this little sting is the reality every day in the retail pharmacy sector. It happens because the private pharmacy customer, who is not eligible for a medical card, is subsidising the medical card holder. And this is after paying the taxes which funded the medical card or General Medical Services scheme in the first place. In fact, it could be summed up as the great pharmacy rip-off; how the private patient is subsidising the medical card holder, on the double. This cross-subsidisation is caused by what is known as the '50pc mark-up', which is a system which has been in place for around 100 years, although it does not ever seem to have been explicitly agreed between retail pharmacists and the Government. The 50pc mark-up is largely the reason why overall Irish retail margins at 33pc on medicines are the highest in Europe. It is one of the reasons drugs in Ireland are twice the price they are in countries like Spain and Portugal. Some economists has gone so far as to say that the massive mark-up is covering the costs of running pharmacies. The cross-subsidy comes about because pharmacists get paid a small dispensing fee of ?2.98 by the State for providing drugs to a medical card holder and nothing else. Some 30pc of the population have medical cards under the General Medical Services scheme. But when it comes to goods sold privately, and drugs supplied under the Drugs Payment and Long Term Illness Schemes, the pharmacist is allowed to charge a dispensing fee 
and a 50pc mark-up. Pharmacists themselves admit that this mark-up is subsiding their medical card business. It works like this: the wholesale prices of most drugs are fixed by agreement between the Government and the Irish Pharmaceutical Healthcare Association (the manufacturers). The present agreement expires at the end of this month and talks are due to begin on a new deal in September. A further 30pc of the population (around 1.4m people) are members of the Drug Payment Scheme (DPS). Under this scheme all non-medical card holders pay out themselves for prescription drugs up to the value of ?85 a month. Any expenditure over that amount is met by the State, once you've registered with the scheme. But unlike the medical card holder, members of the DP scheme will likely have paid a 50pc mark-up on the drugs up to ?85 a month (although pharmacists are free to charge private patients what they like, a 50pc mark-up here too is the norm). For medicines over the ?85 limit, the agreed 50pc mark-up will be charged by the pharmacist to the Government. In fact, on some prescription creams and ointments, the mark-up is as high as 100pc, according to Goodbody pharmaceutical analyst Dr Ian Hunter. A recent academic study by Director of Advocacy at the Competition Authority Declan Purcell calculated that under the Drug Payment Scheme, the average income per contracted retail pharmacy outlet amounts to ?47,000 a year from the 50pc mark-up. In fact, if the cost of a person's drugs under the DPS scheme is ?1,000 a month, the retail pharmacist will receive a dispensing fee of ?2.59 per item and a mark-up of ?500. Mr Purcell points out that the huge mark-up is the main reason pharmacies are considerably more valuable assets than other business assets. Mr Purcell also questions why this huge mark-up does not appear to have ever been explicitly agreed, altered or challenged. The graphic on this page shows how the mark-up works out on a typical prescription drug. Pfizer sells Accupro (10 mg pack of 28), a common drug for treating high blood pressure, to the wholesaler for ?14.07. This price has been agreed between the manufacturers and the Department of Health and has not changed for years. The wholesaler takes a 15pc mark-up and distributes it to the local chemist for ?16.18. For medical card holders, the pharmacist is only allowed to add in a dispensing fee of ?2.98, to take the total cost (to the State) to ?19.16. But when it comes to drugs paid for by private individuals and drugs funded by the State under the DP scheme and the Long-Term Illness Scheme, the pharmacist can charge the mark-up. This means the end price for Accupro turns into ?26.86 to the private patient, a whopping 40pc higher than the cost to the State for the drug under the medical card scheme. Not surprisingly, abolition of the 50pc mark-up has been called for by the Consumers' Association, the Brennan Commission report into the health service, the Competition Authority and the recent Consumer Strategy Report. In 2001 the Competition Authority said: "The high retail margin is particularly burdensome on those private customers whose income falls just above the threshold for receiving a medical card." The professional association and trade union for Irish pharmacists, the Irish Pharmaceutical Union (IPU), admitted to this newspaper that the 50pc mark-up was effectively a levy on non-medical card holders. Secretary general Seamus Feely admitted: "There is an element of cross-subsidisation." He added: "If it was not for the private business in pharmacies we would have no medical card scheme." But he stressed that the IPU acknowledges it is unfair to private patients and it has been proposing to the department that the mark-up should go for the past two years. Mr Feely insisted that there is effectively no mark-up on 74pc of medicines sold in pharmacies because they are issued to medical card holders. He said the IPU has called for a re-negotiation of the mark-up, but the pharmacists are opposed to proposals to introduce a flat fee across all national drug schemes. Some form of mark-up is warranted because of the professional services supplied by pharmacists, Mr Feely said. Mr Feely also defended discounts given to pharmacists from wholesalers. Critics have said discounts go straight to the bottom line for pharmacists, but Mr Feely said without them customers would pay more for over-the-counter medicines and for private prescriptions. "The 50pc mark-up means there is a cross-subsidy and we have suggested to the department that we sit down and discuss the payment arrangements. "The Tánaiste is positively disposed to doing something." The indications are that the 50pc mark-up is set to go, but it could take a while and in the meantime it is a bitter pill for the private patient to swallow. 
