drugs
{ Siobhan O'Connor 
    May 21 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/we-are-young-and-goodtime-charlie-is-the-drug-of-choice-26208450.html }
'There's only one thing better than a line of coke and that's another one," my friend said. She was being flippant, but let's face it cocaine is everywhere, and if you think people you know don't dabble, think again. It's socially accepted, available everywhere. "Coke", "snow", "coca cola", "gak", but most fondly known as "Charlie", from pubs to clubs, cocaine hydrochloride is 'There's only one thing better than a line of coke and that's another one," my friend said. She was being flippant, but let's face it cocaine is everywhere, and if you think people you know don't dabble, think again. It's socially accepted, available everywhere. "Coke", "snow", "coca cola", "gak", but most fondly known as "Charlie", from pubs to clubs, cocaine hydrochloride is the drug of choice. Even its pseudonym sounds grand. If you were to invite a man called "Charlie" to dinner, he'd most likely be accepted. If I say I have tried cocaine I'll be locked away, and if I say I haven't nobody will believe me, because I'm part of a generation that doesn't believe there is anything wrong with the white powder. I have calculated that I've been offered the drug approximately 205 times. But lately it's getting worse. My friends and I are offered it most weekends. At the grand old age of 26, people presume it's OK to pull out a few grams of the powder, willy-nilly. If that's not peer pressure, then what is? My friend's words merely underline what the National Advisory Committee on Drugs chairman Des Corrigan revealed last week. Five times more young people are using coke than heroin. Yes, young people have always enjoyed experimenting, but this is sinister. The truth hurts, but my friend was telling the truth: one line is never enough. You have to try something twice to know if you like it. Try it a third time and you'll need more and more to achieve a buzz. I'm all for experimenting, but the trouble with cocaine is that I've never heard of anyone who doesn't enjoy it. When you're up, you're up, but when you're down, you're very down. Hence the phrase, blue Tuesday. So why are people doing it? There is a litany of reasons. Cocaine doesn't seem dirty like heroin. It gives you feigned confidence, and obviously it's enjoyable for a while, or why would so many people be doing it? You can continue your career and nobody will notice that you're colouring has turned a whiter shade of pale. You don't become physically addicted to cocaine, but it may produce psychological dependence. Your body doesn't need it but your mind does and therein the problem lies. People who take coke at weekends don't believe they're addicted, they believe the drug is simply helping them to continue the party. People of our generation seek instant gratification Coke fits the bill, giving those who take it an instant hit after just 20 minutes. We fear nothing, bypassing the fact that cocaine can cause seizures, depression, brain haemorrhage and heart attacks. Ecstasy can be far cheaper, but it's not as chic as the glamorous powder. E is associated with clubbing and not pubbing. Popping pills in bars seems cheap and trashy, while snorting a line of coke in the loo is now perfectly normal, trendy and up market. But people who do ecstasy are a lot nicer to be around. Cocaine can make people more aggressive, almost boorish. I've witnessed a girl on coke accusing a friend of stealing her stash. Users start speaking rapidly, ranting and raving about ideas they have which they believe at that moment to be revolutionary. They may even convince you that they have the ability 'Even some toilet valets are in on it. An extra tip ensures privacy, while girls in twos and threes take over the cubicles to snort in peace' to change the world. Although people can feel more confident and superior, the buzz after one line of coke fades away so rapidly that you need another line to keep your mood elevated. Outside a club recently, I saw a girl mugged. She wasn't seriously hurt but her girlfriends were so busy snorting cocaine off their compact mirrors, they failed to notice their friend lying across the road. "There is a perception amongst the middle class that cocaine isn't a dangerous drug. They don't associate cocaine use with things like HIV, homelessness or family break-up. There's a portrayal in the media and films that cocaine is a sexy drug. You see people snorting it through $100 bills, increasing their sex drive and heading to work the next day," says Dr Eamon Keenan of the Drug Treatment Centre Board. But he cautions, "The paraphernalia which people use to snort cocaine, such as shared bank notes or straws can lead to HIV or hepatitis." I was first introduced to cocaine when I was running a karaoke bar in Portugal. I was 19. Two dirty old Englishmen came into the bar each evening. On one occasion they told me they had left a present for me in the ladies toilets under a loo roll. I was curious so naively I headed into the bathroom. Underneath the loo roll were two pristine lines of the white stuff. Thankfully, I knew these men were nothing but scumbags. I didn't want to offend them, as they were customers. Declining their offer, I asked them if they had any daughters of their own and whether or not they would appreciate an older man offering coke to their kids. One answered, "Yes I have two daughters, and I don't mind if they take the odd line of coke from time to time. Everything in moderation," he laughed. The temptations are real, and if everyone's doing it, it's increasingly difficult to say no. Last Saturday night, I was out with the girls. We had dinner and then went on a pub crawl. I knew I would be writing about cocaine this week, so as an experiment I ran my finger across many of the toilet cisterns and lo and behold - white powder. Even some toilet valets are in on it. An extra tip ensures privacy, while girls in twos and threes take over the cubicles to snort in peace. The amount of people sniffling their noses was uncanny as that afternoon was a particularly warm one. Did all of these people develop colds over night? A typical party after a night out clubbing and the stuff is rampant. I've travelled a lot. In Miami, cocaine was rife. People in the hostel I was staying in would snort it off keys, in full view of everyone else. On the tropical island of Guadeloupe it was readily available, but the majority of people were into smoking marijuana, so the cocaine would be shipped out to Europe where its popularity is on the up. My Utopian notion that Dublin is different than any other big city in Europe is rapidly dying. No matter what party I'm at, people are on the hunt for "Charlie". On a typical night out, friends and I begin our night drinking in a bar, end up in a club and invariably head to a party. Girls dressed up to the nines with a certain air of sophistication want to keep the party going. So after a fill of spirits, there is only one thing left to do, and that is to find cocaine to keep them awake. "Do you know anyone who has coke?" is generally the mantra. People don't act clandestine. Friends and foes, people I know and don't know are all in the same boat. After a whole night on the tiles, people want to keep going. People mix drink and cocaine. Rarely do you see people doing one or the other. "People who mix drink with cocaine become disinhibited. Both drugs combine to form another drug called coca ethylene, which is more toxic than either drug taken separately," asserts Dr Eamon Keenan. So what about people who don't take cocaine? If cocaine is around and people chose not to do it, they are fundamentally ostracised. It's similar to people who sit and drink mineral water in a pub, when everyone else is drinking. You're kind of left out of the crowd. You feel boring, as if you're not being let in on a joke or a secret. Those who are caught up in the "coke" scene often refer to the abstainers as NDBs. In other words, "Don't mention drugs in front of her, she's a Non Drug Buddy." Those who use it are automatically assuming that those who don't are going to be closed minded and frown upon what they are doing. That's not necessarily the case. Cocaine has become normalised among our generation. It's almost de rigueur at the moment. But it seems that the drug runs in crowds. Some groups don't do it at all, but for those that do, almost everyone in the group does it, every weekend. Many girls don't buy the stuff themselves but if they fancy some of the glitzy powder later that evening, they'll make damn sure that they are in the vicinity of someone who has some. Yes, these classy middle class girls will use you if you have what they're after. People who carry those little white bags are never difficult to find. While our generation indulges itself in this euphoric powder, we don't worry about the consequences, neither do we care. Street value for the seizures of cocaine in 2004 is put at about ?15m. According to Chief Supt Cormac Gordon of the Garda National Drugs Unit, these seizures reflect the demand for the drug on the streets. "Obviously, cocaine is generally more available. The total for 2004 is quite a rise on 2003. People have a different attitude to cocaine than heroin. It was only a rich man's drug a couple of years ago. Now it's used across the board. It's far cheaper than it was. It's acceptable to people's peers," he says. "There is no sight of syringes or broken skin. But the more you start taking it, the more you need of it as time goes on. Eventually, you become addicted, destroying yourself as a person and your internal organs, by constantly snorting it and rubbing it on your gums." It's no longer just the Eamon Dunphy's or the super models of this world who admit to having bags of the stuff. Cocaine is so socially acceptable that nobody bothers hiding it anymore. 
