drugs
{ Conor Sweeney in Brussels 
    October 03 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/leisure-drug-use-declines-but-still-high-on-eu-table-26029771.html }
RECREATIONAL drug use in Ireland is amongst the  highest in the EU, though it is declining slightly, a detailed  report from a European drugs monitoring agency has  found. It found that when compared, young Irish people are nearly twice as likely to smoke cannabis as the Dutch, where there's a 'coffee shop' on every street corner. The amazing revelation is detailed in a study of drug use across Europe, which shows that in a year, more Irish people are likely to have tried smoking dope than in any other country, even where liberal regimes tolerate it. It also shows more than 90pc of drug-related deaths in Ireland follow users taking a cocktail of substances - usually heroin combined with alcohol, medication or other drugs. The fatality rate in Ireland is way higher than anywhere else, though this could be through better Irish reporting of the causes of deaths, explained one of the report's authors, Julian Vincente. Still, when it comes to overall use, Ireland is behind the UK, which is the number one on the drug use charts although 17.7pc of 18-34 year-olds in Ireland have tried cannabis in the past year. In reality, it's even higher, because Britain and other countries count usage from age 15 or 16, compared to 18 in Ireland. The report warns on the dangers of using more than one drug simultaneously and found the reported figures for deaths from a "drug cocktail" were also the highest for Ireland, at 90pc - for Britain by comparison, the figure is 50pc. "Violent or aggressive behaviour has recently been associated with increased use of alcohol combined with stimulant drugs," warns the report. And despite, the apparently very high drug use in Ireland, there was praise too for many changes in Ireland's drug treatment programmes. While usage of cannabis is at the very top of the EU chart, heavy drug use is not as hig has in Britain. Not only was overall drug use down slightly, but also treatment for heroin addicts had improved substantially since the eighties, said Mr Vincente, an epidemiologist with the Lisbon-based agency. It does not have the power to recommend changes to drug policies amongst the 15 member states, just to report on the figures and emerging trends. "Ireland, like Spain and Portugal has seen a very quick sociological change in the past 30 years," explained Mr Vincente, "and this is reflected in the very high climb of usage in the 80s which is now dropping a little." Still, when it comes to use of other drugs, such as cocaine, Ireland is behind the UK, but still near the top of the ladder. Usage was also much lower in EU candidate countries. They also have much lower infection rates for either HIV or hepatitis than Ireland, but could face huge increases if they don't improve their awareness campaigns, warns the agency. Problem Drug users per thousand people: Luxembourg, 9.3; Portugal, 9; Italy, 7.8; UK, 6.7; Ireland, 5.7; Spain, 5.5; Sweden, 4.3; France, 4.3; Denmark, 4; Finland, 3.6; Germany, 3.2; Austria, 3.2 and The Netherlands, 2.6. Cannabis chart: Ireland, 17.7; Britain, 16.6; France, 17' Germany, 13; Spain, 12.7; The Netherlands, 9.8; Greece; 8.8; Portugal, 6.2 and Finland, 4.9. 
