drugs
{  
    April 03 2008 12:06 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wexfordpeople/news/new-garda-squad-to-tackle-drugs-scourge-27695992.html }
SPIRALLING drug crime has led to the establishment of Wexford's first dedicated drugs unit.Interviews are this week being held by a board of senior Gardaí to select full-time members for the new drugs squad, which will be a large and dedicated unit, focusing solely on local drugs investigations. SPIRALLING drug crime has led to the establishment of Wexford's first dedicated drugs unit. Interviews are this week being held by a board of senior Gardaí to select full-time members for the new drugs squad, which will be a large and dedicated unit, focusing solely on local drugs investigations. Expected to be established within the next two weeks, the drugs squad will be based in Wexford town and operate throughout the county. A Garda spokesman said that he did not want to reveal the exact number of officers involved for operational reasons, but that the number of Gardaí involved in drugs investigations in Wexford will increase 'significantly'. Gardaí in Wexford have been identified as being under-staffed and under-resourced to deal with drug crime for a number of years now, particularly with the recent surge in serious offences. It is also hoped that centralising the new unit in the Wexford Garda Division will make a dramatic impact in the detection of drugs offences as previously a small number of officers focusing on drug crime were spread throughout the fragmented Wexford/Wicklow Division, which is due to be split in two next June. The new specialised unit will seek to make an immediate impact and it will 'target all offences across the board, from simple possession to Section 15 offences (possession of drugs for sale or supply)'. There was an increase of almost 40 per cent in the detection of serious drugs offences in County Wexford last year, with the majority of large seizures made in Wexford town. Garda figures show that there were 370 minor drugs seizures and 76 major hauls in the county last year. 
