drugs
{  
    March 31 2011 09:20 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/wicklowpeople/news/suspended-sentences-for-three-in-drugs-case-27860788.html }
THREE ARKLOW people received suspended prison sentences at last week's sitting of Wicklow Circuit Court. Siobhan O'Reilly (28), with an address at Brook View Gardens, South Quay, Arklow pleaded guilty to the unlawful possession of cannabis resin, allowing Aoife Carroll to use cannabis resin and allowing Mark Byrne and Aoife Carroll to use heroin at her then address of 3 Murrell Drive, Inbhear Mor Park, Arklow on March 6, 2009. She also pleaded guilty to possession of heroin for sale or supply at the Navvy Bridge on March 6. Carmel Rowe (30) whose address was given as 8 The Green, Meadowvale, Arklow and Darren Byrne (31) previously of 8, The Green, Meadowvale, Arklow pleaded guilty to the possession of heroin for sale or supply at The Navvy Bridge, Arklow on March 6, 2009. Aoife Carroll who had been in O'Reilly's home on March 6, 2009 died that weekend in tragic circumstances. Garda Garry Brandon told Judge Michael O'Shea that as a result of a garda investigation into drug dealing he spoke with Siobhan O'Reilly who said she had smoked between four and five joints of cannabis resin with Ms. Carroll on March 6. Later O'Reilly and another person went to buy three bags of heroin with a street value of €50 from Darren Byrne at the Navvy Bridge in Arklow. On arrival they met with Byrne's then partner, Carmel Rowe, who gave them the three bags of heroin and accepted €50 from O'Reilly. O'Reilly told Garda Brandon one of the bags was for her own use, one was for Ms. Carroll and the third was for the other person with her. The bags were brought back to her then home in Murrell Drive and all three smoked the heroin. Garda Brandon said no drugs were recovered by gardai and it was through the defendant's own admissions that the case was before the court. During interview Byrne said he asked his then girlfriend Rowe to meet someone at the Navvy Bridge with the heroin. He said Rowe didn't know what was in the package. He said he took about several bags of heroin a week himself and he also sold some. He said he had been selling drugs for the past number of weeks. Rowe said in her interview that she met O'Reilly at the Navvy Bridge 'and sold her gear and by gear I mean heroin'. She said she knew O'Reilly from school. She said she gave the €50 she received for the heroin to Byrne. The court heard evidence from Siobhan O'Reilly's mother, Mrs. Sorenson. She said O'Reilly grew up in Arklow and was the eldest of her three children. Neither of the other two children has been in trouble. She said her own marriage broke up when O'Reilly was 14 or 15 years and O'Reilly left school without any formal education. She said O'Reilly was involved with drink and drugs from a young age although she said she didn't realise her daughter's involvement with drugs until much later. She said O'Reilly fell pregnant at 16 years and married at 19 years. She had four children in total and her marriage broke up shortly after the birth of her fourth child. O'Reilly ' started using heroin in 2008 which I didn't realise. I thought it was just the drink. She lost a decade to drink and drugs but has started to straighten herself out. I have my child back again - I did lose her for a while but thank God I am getting her back. She is doing whatever she is asked to and is clean from all substances.' She said O'Reilly's appearance and presentation has improved and she is ' taking an interest in things again'. She said O'Reilly sees her children, who live with their father, on a regular basis and also has overnight access with them. Mrs. Sorenson said O'Reilly did her Leaving Cert. in 2004 and is currently doing a FETAC course in office and computer skills. She said O'Reilly is currently in a new relationship and is expecting a child from that relationship. She said she approved of the relationship and it had a ' stabilising influence' on O'Reilly. Acting for O'Reilly Justin McQuade, BL, said O'Reilly was not selling drugs for 'financial profit or gain' and was an addict at the time. He said she had cooperated fully with the investigation and was aware of the seriousness. The court was told heard Darren Byrne was originally from Bray but had lived in Arklow for the past number of years. He was involved in a relationship with Carmel Rowe at the time but this relationship had ended recently. He has 39 previous convictions. The court heard he was using drugs at the time and was a long-term user. The court heard he was selling drugs to feed his habit. Acting for Byrne, Damien Sheridan, BL, said his client had left school at 13 and had limited education. He is currently on disability benefit ' due to mental and physical problems' and suffered from depression and had liver problems. 'He turned to drugs following his father suicide' and has attended the local methadone clinic. He said Byrne had ' managed to detox a number of times but fell off the wagon'. Mr. Sheridan said that although Byrne had sold heroin it ' wasn't a big business'. He said while he had a ' weighty number of previous convictions' the vast majority date back to 2002 and ' in the period since then his level of criminal activity has petered out.' Acting for Carmel Rowe, Mary Honan, BL, said there was ' no suggestion her client was involved with drug dealing or abuse' and her only connection with drugs was through her then partner, Byrne. She said Rowe had not come to any garda attention before or since this incident and she hailed from a respectable family. Ms. Honan said while Rowe accepts her involvement in the crime her involvement was 'somewhat peripheral'. She said Rowe had been in a long-term relationship with Byrne and they had an eight year old daughter. She said Rowe's daughter is currently living with a sister because of domestic difficulties that arose between Byrne and Rowe before they broke up. Rowe, she said, is now back living with her parents. Ms. Honan said Rowe suffered from a brain tumour when she was 18 years old but despite this completed her Junior and Leaving Certificate. She said Rowe's ex partner, Byrne, had a 'very serious addiction problem and she has been a very loyal and supportive partner but the difficulties became insurmountable.' The court heard Rowe's 'greatest objective is to try rebuild a normal life with her daughter'. Sentencing the trio Judge Michael O'Shea said drugs have 'devastating' effects on society. Judge O'Shea said while he was satisfied that all three were 'small players it cannot be overstated that any involvement in drugs even at a minor level plays an important role particularly for the people higher up. It's the people at the lowest level, the people with addiction who directly help sustain the higher up players.' He fined O'Reilly €150 for the unlawful possession of cannabis resin and handed down a two-year suspended prison sentence in respect of possession of heroin for sale or supply. He also handed down two 18-month suspended sentences in respect of each of the charges of allowing her premises to be used for drug taking by others. All sentences are to run concurrently. He sentenced Byrne to three years imprisonment which he suspended for four years and sentenced Rowe to two years imprisonment which he suspended for three years. 
