drugs
{  
    November 27 2008 08:52 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/comment-creating-a-level-playing-field-27067150.html }
THE recent high profile, 'adverse findings' of Salbutamol in Kerry GAA player Aidan O'Mahony's 'A' urine sample, following this year's All-Ireland football final, serve as a timely reminder to all elite athletes that drug treatment, drug testing and drug abuse are part and parcel of the sporting landscape. Drug use and abuse is as old as sport itself. Galen observed Greek athletes in ancient times imbibing wild berries to gain a stimulant effect, while Roman wrestlers used special mixtures of herbs to gain an advantage over fellow competitors. In 1988 Ben Johnson cheated with performance enhancing drugs to win the Olympic gold medal in the 100 metres and, from that moment on, drug abuse and drug cheating became a reality and consistent bedfellow of modern sport the world over. In that regard, in 1999 an independent organisation, the World Anti Doping Agency (WADA), was created on the initiative of the sports movement and governments, to promote the athlete's fundamental right to participate in doping-free sport and thus promote health, fairness and equality for athletes. WADA's major tasks are to harmonise anti-doping rules, regulations and procedures, both at national and international level, and to assist anti-doping organisations worldwide. In this respect, national anti-doping organisations have been created so that an anti-doping programme can be implemented in each country. Since September 2003, WADA has been responsible for the preparation and publication of the 'International Standard', namely identifying substances and methods prohibited both in and out of competition. The International Standard is updated and published annually, with substances both added and occasionally removed from the 'banned list' on a yearly basis. The 2009 list will become effective from January 1 next, with the list available from the Irish Sports Council. The aim of the International Standard is to eradicate both accidental and deliberate doping from competitive sport, by standardising the process through which players apply to use an otherwise prohibited substance for therapeutic purposes. This can be achieved when an athlete with a medical condition — and in conjunction with his team doctor — completes a Therapeutic Use Exemption (TUE) form, which must be submitted on an annual basis to the relevant governing body, for example the GAA or FAI, in addition to the Irish Sports Council. The Irish Sports Council will then either approve or some times reject, a TUE application, depending on the medical evidence submitted. Some 526 abbreviated and 155 standard TUEs were approved in 2007 by the Irish Sports Council, while a small number were rejected. In granting a TUE, the relevant regulatory organisation, for example, The Irish Sports Council, would take cognisance of the fact that the athlete would experience significant health problems without taking the prohibited substance or method, the therapeutic use would not produce an enhancement of performance and, finally, there isn't a reasonable therapeutic alternative to the otherwise prohibited substance or method. According to the WADA guidelines, players and athletes are 100 per cent responsible for all medicinal substances they inhale, ingest or inject from whatever source, and it is incumbent on all athletes, even those with known bona fide medical conditions, such as asthma, to inform their team doctor and the relevant governing bodies of any changes to their drug treatment regimen. This is to eliminate spurious excuses from players and athletes who, once tested positive for a banned substance, claim to have had inadvertently taken a banned substance by various means. Athletes who infringe WADA's guidelines and are subsequently found guilty of substance abuse, fall into three broad general categories: namely those that used agents or methods which improve performance, those that used agents or methods that mask other agents and finally those who took recreational or illegal drugs. The first category would include all forms of stimulants, including amphetamines, anabolic steroids, hormones and blood doping etc and would this probably be the most common category of infringement. Masking agents would not only include pharmacological agents such as diuretics, but also physical and chemical tampering of a sample. A refusal by an athlete to provide a sample or co-operate with the drug test is equated with a positive result. Recreational or illegal drugs, such as cocaine and marijuana for example, are also banned for obvious reasons as they are detrimental to one's general health and wellbeing. So how common is drug abuse in sport? WADA believes that as much as 98 per cent of all athletes do not cheat, while in soccer, 20,000 tests are carried out annually worldwide, of which just 0.4 per cent are positive. Advances in recent years of laboratory detectability of heretofore undetectable prohibited drugs, coupled with stringent anti-doping regulations, now applied worldwide by nearly all sporting organisations, appear to be having the desired effect. The recent Beijing Olympic Games was touted as being the 'cleanest' Olympic Games, ever. Nevertheless, drug use and abuse amongst elite athletes continues to take place and the reasons are many. One should not be fooled that drug abuse is just confined to certain particular types of sports, or to just professional sports, because it simply isn't. Therefore players, athletes, coaches, and health professionals need to keep abreast of the latest developments and be aware of their responsibilities when dealing with all forms of prescribed and over-the-counter drugs and sport's participation. As stated already, the guidelines are updated on an annual basis and are freely available from the regulatory body, namely The Irish Sports Council in this country. It is believed, for example, that new diagnostic guidelines for a Therapeutic Use Exemption for medications in the treatment of asthma, the most common medical condition amongst sports men and women, will be announced in the near future. It is important that stringent application and enforcement of the anti-doping guidelines needs to continue, to ensure a level playing field for all, to protect athletes, and make sport safe for the following generations. —Dr John D Chute MB DCH MICGP MMedSc (Sports Med) Republic of Ireland Under 17 International Team Doctor Medical Officer Tralee RFC First XV Fairies Cross Medical Centre, Oakpark, Tralee, Co Kerry 
