drugs
{ Tom Brady 
    July 02 2007 03:01 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/garda-sting-operation-leads-to-18-drug-arrests-26301700.html }
A GARDA undercover operation swooped on a large drug trafficking network on the streets of Dublin yesterday, arresting 18 people. A series of 'stings' by the plainclothes gardai lead to the seizure of street 'deals', a couple of thousand euro in cash and an air pistol. The operation was launched early yesterday by members of the national drugs unit and the district drugs unit at Tallaght. Codenamed Operation Fossil, it has been under way in south Dublin since early in the year and is part of a crackdown on street dealers, who distribute drugs in housing estates and near shop complexes. Officers went onto the streets in plain clothes and purchased drugs from suspected dealers. Some were sold drugs on a number of occasions. Gardai detained 15 men and three women in raids on a number of addresses, mainly in Tallaght. Those held were aged between 18 and 35. One suspect was a non-national. Most of the seizures were of heroin but a small amount of cannabis was also recovered. Detectives seized 20 street deals of heroin at one address. Those detained were suspected of forming a network of local suppliers which meant they were acting as a vital cog in the drugs business, one officer said. "Without local distributors, the big gangs cannot sell their supplies on to their customers and Fossil was focused on a network based in Tallaght," the officer said. Those arrested were suspected of possessing drugs with intent to supply and were detained at Tallaght, Rathfarnham, Rathmines, Terenure, Sundrive Road and Clondalkin garda stations. under section 2 of the Criminal Justice (drug trafficking) Act, 1996. Last September, gardai mounted a similar operation, codenamed Marigold, concentrating on "mid level" drug dealers operating in west Dublin. That resulted in 30 arrests and the seizure of drugs worth €30,000, a gun, false documentation, €4,000 in cash and drug-related material during a search of 40 premises. The initial 'sting' operation, Cleanstreet, concentrated on districts in the north and south inner city in the earlier part of the decade, but different tactics were deployed then. In Cleanstreet, gardai bought the drugs and then went back within half an hour to arrest the dealers. In Marigold and Fossil, the purchases were made at different times over previous weeks and the suspects were then identified quietly with the result that the alleged dealers did not know which of the stings led to their capture. "These operations are aimed at those dealers making money from selling drugs to a few local housing estates rather than the millionaires or the unfortunate addicts," an officer said. Gardai also hope that building up a profile and information on the "mid level" layer of the drug distribution network will y yield crucial intelligence. 
