drugs
{  
    September 23 2007 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/all-of-his-drug-abuse-is-hidden-and-private-26320201.html }
'I remember the first day I found pages of old scripts in a drawer at home; he had been writing prescriptions for his elderly mother for pethidine and morphine and picking them up in various different chemists around. He was taking them intravenously and orally.' Darcey Clarke is a medical consultant, as is her husband, Matt. (Not their real names) He has been abusing drugs since medical school. Both Darcey and her husband are highly regarded in their respective professional fields. Despite his daily drug use, she has never reported him to the medical council or other regulatory body. She admits that the medical profession is possibly the most closed of all professions with regard to speaking up about addiction and taking action where doctors are known to be abusing substances. Silence and secrecy are the order of the day. "I don't think those in power would thank you for bringing an impaired medic to their attention. They'd be forced to do something about him then," she says. Darcey and Matt are still married. "MATT managed to secure a consultant's post as a relatively young man; he has always performed well at work. The one thing he has always held onto is his ability to be controlled and clever at work despite any inward chaos. I imagine his colleagues perceive him as being short-tempered and abrupt, but very good at what he does. These days, he's a creature of habit and routine. Over the years he started going in to work earlier and earlier, so now he gets to work before 7am and stays until just after lunch. More often than not, his afternoon comprises him injecting himself with drugs and going to bed for a couple of hours. Ordinarily I'm at work at this time, so he gets up later in the evening and, if the boys come around to visit, we all try to play not quite "happy", but "vaguely tolerant", families. I go to bed at around 10pm and he stays up and uses again. He might have a few drinks too. In the morning before he leaves for work, he uses drugs to get him going. I find needles around the house all the time. I think I became emotionally numb about everything except the children a long time ago. I have shut myself off from a lot of stuff. I've gone ahead with my career, where I imagine I am considered tough and not very understanding. I think that's one of the problems that the medical profession suffers from; from the very beginning I think we have set ourselves slightly on a pedestal, and everything in our training reinforces that. It's so competitive to get into medicine, and it's so competitive to stay on top of the job. It's competitive to get the training positions, it's competitive to get a consultant post and so on; so you're watching your back constantly not to make a wrong move. There is no way that you are going to be perceived as weak by looking for help, or in my case admitting either that I had problems at home and was under stress, or that my husband was addicted to pethidine and various other substances. The Matt that I married was a very brilliant medical student. By the time of our wedding, he had just qualified. I didn't realise at that stage that he was helping himself to some of the medical supplies. I was young and innocent, and I suppose we tended to drink relatively heavily, as students do. It wasn't really until a while after we got married that I realised that he would always have a drink or two before we went out. Again the penny didn't drop; in retrospect I don't know why -- denial certainly forms a huge part of the spouse's take on things -- but he became violent soon after our marriage. The violence was intermittent at that time. The drinking continued and then the violence would be sparked off by the smallest thing. For example, I always kept my own name and his friends would tease him from time to time about how I wasn't conforming and did he not have any control over me. He'd be livid with me when he got home. And then we moved abroad for training and that's when he really started to deteriorate. There were needles all over the house and everything was denied and he was drinking more and more heavily. I knew the needles weren't work-related because we were both hospital-based and there was no need for them at home. But, of course, one of the things about medicine is we obviously have access to drugs. When I was heavily pregnant my brother-in-law came to stay with us. Matt was on the floor spaced out on whatever he'd taken. His brother and I had to drag him into a bed and all the while I was pleading with his brother not to tell anybody. So I was on the one hand denying it to myself, and on the other admitting it to myself but not wanting anybody else to know. I was keeping his secret. I had always been very competent and the kind of person who got on with things. So I did everything that needed to be done. All he has ever had to do, basically, is survive his working day. I didn't want to know the details of his substance abuse. And then, when our first son was about eight months old, I have no idea what sparked it off, he became extremely violent. He had been taking drugs and he was out of it. He had some kind of psychotic episode all geared at me and I fought for my life, literally. I still have bite marks on my arms. Eventually he passed out and I left with the baby. I drove like a lunatic to the airport and sat waiting for a flight to Dublin. I arrived into the parental home, babe in arms, early the next day. I sobbed on the plane, and I broke down completely when I arrived home and told my parents part of the story. I didn't mention the drugs -- just the alcohol -- and my father asked if he had been violent and I said: "Yes, that's why I left." At that stage, Matt had awoken from his stupor and was panicking looking for me. As far as I was concerned, that was it. It was over. But my father, whom I loved and greatly respected, said he thought Matt deserved one more chance. So I went back. Defeated. We were very isolated, I suppose, and medical hours were long. I'd be on call and I had a young child, so all of my time was pretty well taken up. I didn't have any time for confiding in friends. Most of my friends were doctors, anyway, so I wouldn't have ever said a word. I'd have been making very serious allegations about another doctor, even though he was my husband. I would also have felt great shame in admitting that I had married a drug abuser. I became pregnant again and over the years there were violent episodes. We were living in the States then. I gave up discussing anything about my marriage or my home life with my parents because I hadn't their support in the way that I would have wished. We both got consultant posts and there were dry periods from time to time, periods where there seemed to be no drugs or alcohol. Those times were OK. I think he has only been publicly seen in a "drunken" state -- far more likely to have been a drugged state -- on two occasions. All of his abuse is hidden and private. And I've helped in this. I've always done all I can to keep it hidden. I didn't, and don't, confide in anyone. I never dared to tell this story. Professionally, there have never been any consequences of his actions. Over his career he must have misinterpreted results or missed diagnoses, surely? Nothing's ever been traced back to him, though. I recall one afternoon, after we returned to live and work in Dublin; he was in a really terrible state, arriving home from work. He passed out shortly after coming through the door and I did feel duty-bound to phone the Medical Council, but then the idea of the fall-out from that for him and for me was too much. I think the level of denial, secrecy and so on that you feel when you're living with that level of addiction is very strong. About eight years ago, I was under a lot of pressure at work myself and I wanted him to move out. I couldn't stand it anymore. His behaviour at home had become utterly unbearable and he was very manipulative and very controlling. I had had enough of walking on eggshells: "I mustn't upset Matt, I mustn't disturb Matt. I won't say anything inflammatory. I'll suppress what I really think about such and such." It was an emotional quagmire, really, in that everything was suppressed. The children were older and they knew to walk on eggshells, too. They'd been doing it all their lives. There were never any moments of honesty between us. Never. Addicted individuals will lie to you about anything and everything. There were periods when he'd promise me he'd never use drugs again. I mean, we'd often have those kinds of conversations. I believed it the first dozen times, but after that I didn't. Sometimes, he'd be so convincing and make all kinds of declarations and I'd be quietly hopeful. But not anymore. He doesn't even bother making those false promises these days. We both know it's nonsense. But eight years ago --when I still had a little bit of fight left in me -- and I'd come to the end of my tet- her, I wanted to get him out. I still hadn't told anybody about it. We would have appeared to be the perfect family; two rather eminent doctors, teenage sons excelling in school. A beautiful house full of beautiful things, and yet at the heart of this life was absolute rot. Rot and distress and pain and fear. I think I was getting to the stage where I was probably clinically depressed. I'd gone to see one of my physician colleagues and said I was feeling rotten and my blood pressure was up. I said I'd been under a lot of stress. I didn't say why. The second time I went to see him, I just burst into tears and I told him I had problems at home. I was just pent up and tense and hyper and I'm sure if you looked into my face, it was distorted with sadness and rage. That day was the closest I've got in our married life to indicating that all was not rosy. I wanted him to move out but he refused. He said he'd done nothing wrong and I couldn't take his sons: "If you take my boys from me, I'll murder you." I still have this letter where he actually wrote that down for me as some kind of warped promise and reminder. I fully believed him. I still do. The boys were getting older. And I worried constantly about how they were being affected by the environment they were growing up in. The manipulation, the control, the tentacles tightening around everything, how he dominated our lives with his ominous, casually delivered threats. It's only now, looking back, that more and more I realise just how controlling he was and it's very difficult to describe. Here I was in a senior position in a hospital, a very pressurised, very challenging and very rewarding job, trying to hold my family together and not talking to anybody. I hosted lots of family events and parties and all sorts of stuff. Everything appeared hunky dory, and if I socialised without Matt I'd make an excuse. My life was one big lie. My eldest son came home one night about four years ago -- at this stage he was in his twenties -- and Matt was out of it downstairs. Rob challenged him, and his father promised he'd never drink or use drugs again. Poor Rob believed him. He felt so betrayed when he found him using again two days later. Things have been pretty rocky for our entire marriage, but now I've cut myself off from him, emotionally. I live here and he lives here, and that's about all we have in common. I don't feel any fear or anger, just immense disappointment at how my life has gone when I think about it. And huge sadness for my children, that they didn't have the stable and loving family upbringing that they deserved. In 2003, he had a major breakdown and went into a treatment centre for six weeks. He came out of it full of hope and all full of evangelical drive for life. Everything was going to be wonderful and I was wonderful and he couldn't believe what he had put me through, blah, blah, blah. I was very hopeful. I have a huge sense of family, even though that night when I took the flight with my baby I would have left him. But just then, I was willing to work with him, so we joined a two-year aftercare programme. At the first meeting, they said that people stop growing up at the time they start abusing substances. It turned out that Matt had started stealing alcohol from his parents' drinks cabinet when he was 12. So I had married an adolescent. I was trying to keep it light, trying to maintain a sense of humour at the meeting, so I said I had married a 12-year-old, was living with a 15-year-old and I was looking forward to him becoming 19 or so. The others laughed but Matt was absolutely livid. I could see him clenching his jaw. That was the end of that. He wouldn't go anymore. And he started drinking and using heavily again -- if he had ever stopped . . . His evangelical glow burnt out that night. One evening, a few weeks later, he was ready to strike out at me and I stood up as straight as I could and went towards him rather than away from him. I confronted him and said, "You've no right to hit me or to push me around," and he didn't. And he never did after that. I think in the early years, I was probably protecting myself as much as I was protecting him by not saying anything. It's very easy to stop somebody's career if there's any little black mark against them. It's not right, but that's the way it works. So you don't show any kind of weakness. I would have perceived it as a weakness that I had married an addict, and I would have been displaying a weakness in looking for any help. Doctors have empathy with patients, we certainly do get affected by some of our patients, but I don't think we have emotional and feeling vocabulary. We've all the scientific evidence-based stuff and I think there is genuine empathy from most of us, but the vocabulary to deal with feelings and real emotion is not there. I'm in an interesting position because I'm a doctor, I'm also a doctor's wife, an abused woman, the wife of an addict, and now I'm also a patient. I experience these things from every angle. Up until last year, Matt went through phases where he'd announce with a flourish that he was finished with all the drugs and the drink. But I didn't care anymore. I've little or no dealings with him and certainly no feelings. Anyway, I knew not to listen. At last. Because it's never been true. He's an extremely intelligent and well-read man with a very powerful mind. I can only assume that's how he still gets through his working days. It's a miracle that he hasn't managed to seriously injure a patient in all the years he's practising. As far as I know, there has never been any sort of investigation into him or his behaviour. Of course, he is brilliant at lying and a master of denial so he'd be hard to pin down and very difficult to challenge. He'd put on his pin-stripe suit and stand upright. I'd guess I'm perceived as successful, domineering and overly assertive by my colleagues. They wouldn't have any idea what goes on in my home and how little control I've had over my personal life. We coexist now, Matt and I. I mean, we eat our dinner in the same room on occasion. Both of my boys are adults now. I think if you spoke to them, you'd find they think their dad has contributed very little to our lives. Certainly very little that's positive. 
