drugs
{ Shane Doran and Geraldine Collins 
    January 27 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/drug-dealers-buy-up-supply-of-vital-dental-anaesthetic-26282469.html }
DRUG dealers are causing a severe shortage of a vital dental drug that they are using to mask impurities in cocaine. Dentists' supplies of lignocaine, the most commonly used local anaesthetic in dental procedures, are at an all-time low because dealers are buying it over the internet. The Irish Dental Association (IDA) expressed serious concerns last night at the dwindling stocks of the drug. Chief executive Ciara Murphy said she did not know how long current stocks would last. But she urged members not to panic by buying up stocks of the drug in bulk as this would only make the problem worse. Stocks "I would not say it is at crisis level yet, but it is a live issue. Dentists are operating out of current supplies. They do not have bulk stocks of the drug," she told the 
Irish Independent. The Department of Health has contacted the manufacturers of the anaesthetic on behalf of the IDA in a bid to bolster the dwindling supply. "The whole thing has become caught up in a bureaucracy," Ms Murphy said. "We did get a response from the department but they said there was little they could do about it." Drug dealers are able to buy the drug, which they use to bulk up packages of impure cocaine, directly over the internet. Virtually all cocaine seized by gardai is heavily diluted. Most of it has a purity of 25pc to 35pc, but in some cases it can be as low as 8pc. Garda raids on cocaine-mixing plants have revealed widespread use of the sedative, which is now almost as valuable as cocaine on the black market. Senior members of the Garda drug unit have called on the Government to introduce strict controls on the sale of the drug. But the IDA says any ban would only exacerbate the problem. "This is certainly not the answer. Dentists would simply not be able to work if the drug was banned," Ms Murphy added. Dentists have also expressed fears that their practices could be targeted by criminals. One dentist, who did not want to be named, said: "We are seriously worried. Supplies are at an all-time low. It is the most busy time for dentists and this drug is an essential anaesthetic for procedures. It cannot be replaced with a lighter anaesthetic." Criminals are able to order vast quantities of the drug online using stolen credit cards. "It is virtually impossible to police," one source said. "Most dealers get it sent to them via the post in small packages." British-based company Deproco UK, a subsidiary of French parent company Septodont, holds the licence to distribute lignocaine throughout Ireland and Britain. Global A spokesman for the company claimed last night that the shortage of the drug was a "global problem" and not confined to Ireland. He claimed this was partly due to the decision of a United States pharmaceutical giant to shut down operations. The spokesman said that Deproco UK would only sell the drug to anyone who held a Product Authority licence. But Ms Murphy said that it was virtually impossible to police the drug over the internet. "These people would not have Product Authority, but anyone can basically get it illegally over the internet," she said. "There are no controls to prevent this from happening." 
