drugs
{  
    April 10 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/cocaine-seizures-up-50pc-in-classless-drug-culture-26389057.html }
Paul Melia SEIZURES of cocaine rose by 50pc last year - and users are as likely to be living in the capital as anywhere else in the country. Unpublished garda figures show that in 2005 there were 1,169 seizures of cocaine nationally, compared with 764 the previous year and 607 in 2003. Of the 1,169 seizures in 2005, almost half (545) were in the greater Dublin area. The figures also show increases in cannabis, heroin and amphetamine seizures, with a slight fall in amount of ecstasy found. Barry O'Brien, from the Garda National Drugs Unit, told a conference yesterday that the geographical spread of illicit drug use showed a "notable increase" in cocaine use. But Det Supt O'Brien said cannabis still accounted for the "vast majority" of seizures. There had been "some seizures" of crack cocaine, and gardai were also concerned about the possibility that methamphetamine - or crystal meth - could make its way to Ireland. The deadly drug, which produces a euphoric high, can cause strokes and respiratory problems. International studies have noted that its psychological effects can lead to suicide or the user becoming involved in irrational behaviour, including out-of-character assaults or even murder. Det Supt O'Brien said studies showed most people were introduced to drugs by a friend or family member. "The idea that drugs are pushed at the school gate is a misnomer," he said. "Drug users come from all walks of life." Help A conference organised by Dublin City Council, 'Drugs: A Classless Problem', also heard that while some parts of the capital had seen falling drug use, a problem was emerging in others. The number of people seeking help for their drug problem (see panel) fell in Ballymun; in communities along the canal; in Ballyfermot; Clondalkin; and in the north inner city. But in the south inner city, the numbers had remained static, with noticeable increases recorded in Finglas/Cabra; Dun Laoghaire-Rathdown; and especially Bray in Co Wicklow, where the numbers had doubled between 1998 and 2002. Drug problems were also beginning to emerge in Athlone in Co Westmeath, Carlow and in Arklow. One mother of a drug addict told the conference: "I live in Ballsbridge in Dublin 4, and my son's dealer is a doctor's son. He owes so much money on the street, he's as dirty as ever. I'll go home today and he'll probably be dead." She added that he had started his drug habit after his leaving cert. "He started smoking dope (cannabis), and said it was a lifestyle that everyone was indulging in. He took ecstasy, heroin and cocaine. He's tried to kill himself twice," she added. Meanwhile, the judge hearing cases in the Drug Treatment Court, Judge Bridget Reilly, said that the court was to be expanded to cover all parts of the capital and would be rolled out to other parts of the country where drugs were deemed to be a major factor in crime levels. Two people will 'graduate' from the court over the coming weeks, while 11 people have already done so. The court currently deals with cases where addicts face a custodial sentence, and only operates in Dublin 1, 3 and 7. Minister for State with responsibility for drugs, Noel Ahern, said the Government had allocated ?43m for new initiatives to tackle addictions. 
