drugs
{  
    December 17 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/ignorance-may-yet-be-defence-in-drug-cases-26419842.html }
CATHY MADDEN SEVERAL alleged drug dealers have had their court cases adjourned at the Circuit Court pending the outcome of a Supreme Court hearing early next year. The accused in each of the cases has been charged with having drugs for sale or supply under section 15(a) of the Misuse of Drugs Act which involves quantities valued at over ?13,000. The charge carries a minimum sentence of 10 years and a maximum of life. The appeal is based on the level of knowledge that an accused has about the value of the drugs in their possession. It's unclear how many cases have been affected, however they include one where the value of the drugs is around ?120,000. Most if not all cases are specific to Dublin, purely because the Circuit Court in the capital sits longer than any other around the country. Judges have adjourned them because of a Supreme Court case being brought by lawyers for a 34-year-old man who received 10 years at Waterford Circuit Court in October 2004 for possessing the drug 'speed' contrary to section 15(a). Ronan Power from Childers Estate in Dungarvan was accused of having two kilos worth of the substance, which had a very low purity, making the drugs worth a maximum of around ?20,000. His lawyers appealed the sentence to the Court of Criminal Appeal last May where it was refused. However, the court did allow his legal team to bring the case forward to the Supreme Court, which will rule on the question of whether a defendant has to know the value of the drugs in order for a section 15(a) charge to be brought against them. When these cases come before the courts, the prosecution establishes what the drugs involved were worth by the investigating garda taking the stand and giving the street value. However, solicitor Peter O'Flynn, who represents Ronan Power, believes a stronger test needs to be set down. "Currently in order to secure a conviction under section 15(a) of the Misuse of Drugs Act, as opposed to section 15 under the Misuse of Drugs Act, the prosecution has merely to prove that the street value of the drugs the person was in possession of were worth ?13,000 or more." Mr O'Flynn says they will be asking the Supreme Court to determine what level of knowledge the accused must have to secure a conviction. "Should it be necessary to prove that the person knew (or should have known) what the drugs were worth? Considering the value of the drugs is a central ingredient of the offence, this matter needs to be clarified," said Mr O'Flynn. If successful, the case is likely to have implications for other section 15(a) cases in the system where the value of the drugs involved is close to the ?13,000 mark. 
