drugs
{  
    March 02 2008 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/doubt-that-destroyed-sufferers-peace-of-mind-26427171.html }
THE drugs don't work. Or at least that's what many people were led to believe by the publication of a report from Professor Irving Kirsch (Hull University), with colleagues in the US and Canada. Last week many newspapers gave front-page coverage to this report, which alleged that some anti-depressant drugs were of no more use than placebos. I'm not sure which was the more irresponsible -- the authors of the report who released it to the press without proper thought for the millions of people who take anti-depressants, or the media which gleefully ran headlines such as: "Prozac, used by 40m people, does not work, say scientists" (Guardian, 26 February). Because this is not what the study proved at all. The study did not show that anti-depressants had no effect on depressed patients. What it actually showed (over a very short six-week period) was that, in cases where people were not severely depressed, anti-depressants were only 20 per cent more beneficial (10-point improvement) than placebos (eight-point improvement). This is quite a different matter indeed. And in the media coverage of Professor Kirsch's report, hidden a few paragraphs down from the sensationalist headlines, is information proving that the drugs analysed show significant effects in severely depressed patients. What's that? The drugs do work? Hopefully, all the severely depressed people on SSRIs (Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors) read all the way down to this vital piece of information before ditching the drugs and putting themselves at risk of mental trauma -- or worse. But, unfortunately, the media have not rushed to publish the various medical commentaries that dispute Kirsch's findings. For example, Dr Walter Brown, of Brown University Medical School, argues (in the same publication as Kirsch) that mild and moderately affected patients that typically participate in trials can exaggerate the plac-ebo response. In his experience, severely depressed patients do not respond nearly as well when treated with placebos. He believes that drugs are more effective in the real world, when they are used to treat a range of people over long periods of time. But this response was not given headline status. Nor was the opinion of Dr Michael Millar of Harvard Medical School, who asserted that, in his experience, those getting a plac- ebo response would soon return to their misery, but those responding to medication would enjoy longer-term benefits. And, up and down the country, one could hear the sound of prescription tablets being unceremoniously dumped into the nearest bin while GPs tore their hair out trying to reassure seriously ill patients that their advice to take medication for their illness was not bogus. The report cited SSRI drugs such as Prozac and Seroxat, both of which I have been prescribed at various times. Seroxat did not improve my mental health in any way either as an anti-depressant or a placebo, and I experienced unpleasant side effects. (But it worked extremely well on a very ill acquaintance.) Prozac I found immensely helpful. Just a small dose gave me the kick I needed to emerge from a paralysing depression and seriously work on my mental health. It doesn't work for everyone, but I found it wonderful -- and, after a few weeks taking the drug, I was able to benefit from cognitive and other therapies. Doctors and psychiatrists are as yet unsure why some anti-depressants work so well for one person but may have little or no effect on the next. It is a case of trial and error, but the results can be life-saving. Recently I read a number of books written by professional Irish medics on the subject of depression. Whereas I found some held rather extreme views which counselled either (but not a combination of) drug, psychoanalytic or alternative therapies, Dr Harry Barry -- a medical doctor with immense interest in, and experience of, mental illness -- has written a book which refreshingly combines all approaches which may be of benefit to the sufferer, without any personal bias to a specific therapy. (Flagging the Problem: A new Approach to Mental Health -- see article by Dr Barry below). When I consulted him on his views about Professor's Kirsch's report, he said: "When assessing the true value of all therapies, we must look beyond the placebo effect and examine their effectiveness over a much longer period of time. "We must also not ignore the true value of drug therapy (and indeed all effective therapies) in the experience of both doctors and, more importantly, those suffering from depression in 'real life' rather than in the cosy world of academic statistics, particularly when the latter is based on six-week trials." The severity of mental illness is constantly being trivialised by intelligent people who -- in my experience -- haven't the faintest idea what they are talking about when they denounce medically assisted remedies. And, unfortunately, the sensationalist reporting of Professor Kirsch's (disputed) findings, have given the "anti-drugs under any circumstance" brigade a new bible from which to quote. (What I always find amazing is that some people who disapprove of anti-depressant medication are great supporters of homoeopathy.) Many people who have never experienced it, and consequently do not understand it, believe that depression is akin to sadness. These are the people who named Prozac the "happy drug". But depression is not ordinary sadness and Prozac does not make you happy. It is natural and healthy to be sad because of the death of a loved one or a traumatic experience. This sadness cannot be cured by drugs -- nor should it be. Similarly, if a person feels unhappy with their lifestyle choices or just disappointed or frustrated with life in general, they will probably not benefit from anti-depressant drugs -- except perhaps as placebos. This is what can be called "dis-ease". (I suspect that some of the "mild to moderate" depressed people in Professor Kirsch's study may fall into this category.) This is why exercise, meditation and change of living conditions are very beneficial to what many call the "reactively depressed" but what I would call plain "unhappy". (As they are also very beneficial to the severely depressed.) Clinical depression -- "disease" as opposed to "dis-ease" -- is a very different experience. It can manifest itself as a full mind and body shut-down (I had days when I could not lift my head off the pillow, despite my best efforts), and can lead to dangerously circuitous thought patterns that, despite one's best efforts, can be broken only with drug treatment. Busy GPs who are not quite sure whether a patient is unhappy or clinically depressed are quite right, in my opinion, to cover their bases and prescribe an anti-depressant rather than take the risk of a patient becoming suicidal if other therapies have not proven effective. (It is not their fault that mental illness is so inadequately funded that they have no choice in many cases but to write a prescription.) Commenting on Professor Kirsh's report, Dr Rodrigo Munoz, past president of the American Psychiatric Association, noted that 15 per cent of people with depression end up killing themselves. "When I see a patient who is suicidal, I use all the artillery. I am not going to say, 'Well, 20 per cent is not good enough for me.'" But ultimately, for millions of people worldwide who believed in the power of anti-depressants and consequently gained peace of mind, the damage has been done. The doubt sowed by Professor Kirsh's report means that belief in the efficacy of these drugs has been destroyed. In destroying the faith that many people placed in these medications, the doctors responsible have acted in a frighteningly irresponsible manner. 
