drugs
{  
    January 12 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/zero-tolerance-approach-to-drugs-27446206.html }
By Cian McCormack Gardai in Nenagh and throughout Tipperary are taking a hardline in the battle against drugs. “Gardai are taking a ‘zero-tolerance’ stance against drugs. No matter what substances (illegal drugs) we find people with we will take action,” said Inspector Tony Cogan, Drugs Co-ordinator for the Tipperary Division which covers all of Tipperary and parts of Waterford, Cork, Offaly and Limerick. Insp Cogan, who co-ordinates and organises operations, both high and low profile, throughout the region told the 
The Guardian that in recent years increased resources have been used for drug detection. “There are drugs available in Nenagh, as there is all over the country. There are covert and overt operations being carried out by Gardai throughout the Tipperary division. We are using a lot of resources to combat the drugs culture and every effort is being made to combat it,” said Insp Cogan. “Over the past number of months, throughout the county, and in Nenagh, raids have been made on establishments where drug activity is suspected. They have been raided for drugs by the Divisional Drugs Squad,” Insp Cogan added. “There is an ongoing battle against drugs and we are encouraging people, as they have done in the past, to come forward with any relevant information “It is very difficult to measure the extent of the problem. We can only assess that through the number of detections that we make, and there are more detections because of increased resources being put into the detection of drugs,” said Insp Cogan. “There are a number of people who are actively in the drugs trade and there is an on-going battle against them,” added the Nenagh-based Divisional Drugs Inspector. Insp Cogan said people, especially parents, can contact their local Garda station, if they are concerned about their children and substance abuse. If a parent finds their child in possession of illegal drugs or substances they can report it to the gardai. “If a parent calls in to their local garda station, we have a special ‘welfare process’ which points in direction of addiction services. We, the Gardai, are there to help people address the situation. Our priority at all times is to help people,” Insp Cogan said. 
