drugs
{  
    January 12 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/top-coke-hits-tipp-streets-but-es-and-hash-are-choice-drugs-27446198.html }
Cocaine has hit the streets of Nenagh in small amounts in recent weeks. The situation is being monitored by Gardai who confirmed to The Guardian that the addictive substance is being used in Nenagh. By Cian McCormack  Cocaine has hit the streets of Nenagh in small amounts in recent weeks. The situation is being monitored by Gardai who confirmed to 
  The Guardian that the addictive substance is being used in Nenagh. ‘TOP COKE’ -- as it is known to its users -- is not the choice drug of users in Tipperary. Ectasy and Cannabis are the most popular unlawful recreational drugs. Heroin, according to garda sources, is not being used widely - if it is at all. “The reality is that there doesn’t seem to be heroin being taken as a choice drug in the greater area of Tipperary. There is evidence of cocaine use however,” said Inspector Tony Cogan. “Cannabis and Ecstasy are the drugs of choice in Nenagh. There has been a big increase in the use of Ecstasy,” said Inspector Cogan. Meanwhile, a community group set up to combat drugs in the town told 
The Guardian that drugs - especially chemicals like: Ecstasy, Cocaine and Speed (Whizz) are top of the illegal drug buyers list in Nenagh. The group also claim there is some, but only a small amount, of Heroin being used in Nenagh. The anti-drugs group told 
The Guardian, although “it is not common, it is being smoked and skin popped but I don’t think that there is anyone shooting it yet”. “The police are more active on the drugs situation but a lot more has to be done. Drugs are a hidden problem, there’s no end game. Society has to try to get on top of drugs. People can’t wipe their hands and walk away,” said a spokesperson for the Nenagh Anti-Drugs Committee. “Growing up, for young people, is hard enough to do without having to tackle drugs as well. Drugs are continuing to be sold and we don’t see any reduction in them,” added the anti-drugs spokesperson. 
