drugs
{  
    September 14 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/dealing-in-death-will-not-be-tolerated-27785679.html }
A MAN found in possession of 100 ecstasy tablets and an amount of cocaine during a drugs investigation by Balbriggan gardaí was jailed for six months and warned by a judge that such a trade was dealing in death and would not be tolerated. Michael Finglas, 19 Ross Street, Phibsborough, Dublin 7, was charged under the Misuse of Drugs Act with possession of the controlled drug MDMA (ecstasy) for sale or supply at the Alverno Hotel, Laytown on August 20 last. He was further charged with simple possession of MDMA under section 3 and section 27 of the Act and with possession of cocaine under the same sections. Garda David Clifford told the court that on Friday, August 20 1999 he was carrying out an investigation into the sale of controlled drugs in the Lusk area. He set up a surveillance operation on a youth from the town. The youth left Lusk and travelled to the Alverno Hotel in Laytown to where he was followed by the garda, Balbriggan court heard. A man whom the garda now knew to be Michael Finglas left the hotel and got into the passenger seat of the car driven by the other individual from Lusk. Garda Clifford said he suspected that a drugs transaction was due to take place and he approached the car. He observed Michael Finglas place a packet under his leg. The garda said he suspected that the substance in the bag was ecstasy and that this was subsequently confirmed. Finglas was arrested and conveyed to Balbriggan garda station where he was searched. A second packet of ecstasy tablets and a small quantity of cocaine was found on his person during the search, the court heard. Finglas was also in possession of £235 in cash. Garda Clifford estimated the street value of the 100 ecstasy tablets to be about £10 each, giving a total value of £1,000. The court heard that the defendant had no previous convictions. Garda Clifford agreed with solicitor Robert Eagar for the defence that Finglas had indicated that the cocaine was for personal use and that this was reflected in the charge. Finglas had made a statement admitting responsibility for the drugs at an early stage after his arrest, the court heard. A copy of his statement was presented to the court but not read into the record. Asked for his view on whether Finglas was the ‘main mover’ in the drug operation, Garda Clifford replied that ‘he had the drugs in his possession’. ‘He was with one other person who remained in the pub,’ Garda Clifford said. The court heard that Finglas was employed by a furniture manufacturing company and that he had a girlfriend and a two-year-old son. Mr Paul Collins, Finglas’s employer, gave evidence on behalf of the defendant. He said that Finglas had been working for him for five or six years and agreed that the defendant had brought the charges to his attention himself. Asked by Mr Eagar whether he had noticed any changes in the defendant’s attitude at work before the events, Mr Collins said that he did not think Finglas had been himself for a while. Finglas later came to him and informed him of the situation. ‘I have to say I was very shocked,’ said Mr Collins. He had known the defendant and his family most of his life and it was ‘completely out of character for him to do something like this’. Asked if Finglas’s work had improved, Mr Collins said he did not believe it had because the matter was ‘on his mind’. Mr Collins agreed that he was ‘very concerned’ about his employee. Asked by the defence solicitor if Finglas had ‘learned his lesson’, Mr Collins replied: ‘Absolutely. Without a doubt.’ The court heard that there was a 12 month maximum sentence that could be imposed for the supply charge. Mr Eagar said he accepted that these were ‘gravely serious matters’ and that his client was ‘under no illusion as to the seriousness and gravity of the offences which he had brought upon himself and his family’. He was particularly conscious that he became involved in this situation at a time when he should have been considering his family. The court could see from Finglas’s statement that he had been involved in ‘some degree of misuse of drugs himself’, Mr Eagar said. It was impressive that his employer was prepared to come and give evidence on behalf of Finglas, said the solicitor. ‘He himself has been gravely worried and concerned about it.’ Mr Eagar asked the judge to take into account how his client had met the case and the evidence given on his behalf and also to have regard for his family responsibilities, particularly towards his two-year-old son. The solicitor noted that the court would say his client should have taken this into account at the time. However it had been brought home to him in very clear detail the sentence that the court could impose. Mr Eagar asked the court to consider putting the case back for a report on Finglas’s suitability for community service so that the court could ‘test him’. Judge Seán MacBride said that the defendant had pleaded guilty to ‘very serious charges’. This had obviously been a ‘substantially commercial enterprise of drug distribution and was not on a minor scale’, said the judge. The distribution and sale of drugs was ‘a serious menace’ in this country and affected not only young people but entire communities. It was clear from Finglas’s statement that there was ‘a lot not said’ about who was supplying him with the drugs and about where this ‘nefarious trade’ was controlled, Judge MacBride said. The judge said he appreciated that the defendant was in gainful employment and that his employer had given evidence on his behalf. The amount of drugs involved indicated that Finglas was ‘clearly involved in selling drugs on behalf of other sinister persons’. This would not be tolerated under any circumstances. The judge would take into account Finglas’s previous record but could not accede to Mr Eagar’s ‘very eloquent’ plea for community service and a fine. ‘The effect of E tablets is horrendous,’ said the judge. ‘A number of people have died from using them. When one talks about dealing in ecstasy tablets, one talks about dealing in death effectively.’ Judge MacBride sentenced Finglas to six months in jail on the supply charge and said he was sending a ‘clear warning’ that anybody who came before the court on charges of selling drugs for profit was going to be jailed. The judge praised the Criminal Assets Bureau for the work it had done in seizing the assets of drug dealers and said that as far as he was concerned ‘drug barons’ should be ‘frozen out’ of this country. The judge set recognisance of the defendant’s own bond of £1,000 plus an independent surety of £1,000 in the event of an appeal. Finglas was also sentenced to a concurrent one month jail sentence on the simple possession of ecstasy. Possession of the cocaine was taken into account in sentencing in view of his plea of guilty. 
