drugs
{  
    November 27 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/news/gardai-say-listowel-drugs-problem-not-out-of-hand-27370794.html }
GARDAÍ in Listowel have denied that there is a growing drugs problem in North Kerry, despite the fact that 16 people were searched during the weekend in the Listowel area and five seizures of cannabis and ecstasy were made.This follows a second drugs haul on the Kerry/Limerick border earlier this month, which resulted in a number of people from the Listowel area being GARDAÍ in Listowel have denied that there is a growing drugs problem in North Kerry, despite the fact that 16 people were searched during the weekend in the Listowel area and five seizures of cannabis and ecstasy were made. This follows a second drugs haul on the Kerry/Limerick border earlier this month, which resulted in a number of people from the Listowel area being arrested. Supt Frank O’Brien of Listowel Gardaí stressed that the two incidents were in no way related, and he insisted that Listowel does not have a growing drugs culture. “The drugs situation in Listowel is no better or no worse than the situation in any other town. It is not out of proportion with a town of its size and it is in no way out of hand,” he told 
The Kerryman this week. “Underage drinking and drugs are constantly being given attention by Gardaí, particularly in the weeks coming up to the holiday period.” Listowel Gardaí operated a number of searches throughout the weekend under the Misuse of Drugs Act, Supt O’Brien continued. He said that a total of 16 people were searched in the Listowel Garda division, which takes in areas such as Ballybunion and Lisselton. A total of five seizures of cannabis and ecstasy were made, with the majority of these being seized in the Listowel area. Those arrested are being charged with possession of drugs under the Misuse of Drugs Act, rather than possession with intent to supply, he said. A large amount of Garda personnel was focused on this operation over the weekend, Supt O’Brien added. During the first week of November, a large quantity of drugs was seized on the Kerry/Limerick border, in a joint operation involving Kerry Gardaí and the National Drugs Bureau in Dublin. A total of four people were arrested, two under Section 2 of the Misuse of Drugs Act. They were initially taken to Tralee Garda Station but were later released without charge. Supt O’Brien commented at the time that Gardaí were sure that a large quantity of the drugs were headed for the Kerry market. Two of the people arrested in connection with this drugs haul were from the North Kerry area. 
