drugs
{ John Manning 
    September 03 2014 10:59 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/tackling-drug-abuse-high-on-guerins-list-of-priorities-30553996.html }
IT was seeing a growing drug problem in Dublin at the tail end of the 1970s that drove Jimmy Guerin into politics and more than 30 years later, tackling drug abuse and locking up the dealers is still at the heart of his political platform. Working for St Vincent De Paul in the 70s, introduced Cllr Guerin to a world where drug abuse was rife and it was an issue he would become passionate about. As far back as 1982, the newly-elected councillor was winning an All-Ireland debating competition where he argued for marches on the home of a noted drug dealer of the time. He joined Fianna Fáil and was a member of the party for decades until disappointment with what he calls 'the banking fiasco' and 'years spent in power where nothing was done about the things I feel passionate about' drove him out of the party, running as an independent for the first time in the 2009 local elections. He missed out on that occasion but took another tilt at the local elections this time around, securing a seat in the Howth/ Malahide ward in the recent local elections. Decades after he first engaged with the issue, the drugs problem in our city and county is 'worse than ever' according to the new councillor, who is calling for a new approach to the problem. Cllr Guerin said: 'If I had to pick one issue to campaign on, then it would be drugs and suicide awareness. This is the real tragedy in our society and I've seen the effects drugs are having in our area today. 'It's changed in so far as it's got worse - there are more people involved and it's leading to more crime and leading to depression and suicide. I don't believe there's enough being done about it.' He added: 'I have been involved in this issue on and off since 1982 and if you ask me, I would say that in 2014, the drugs problem is the worst it has ever been. 'The only thing that has changed, which saddens me in a way, is that there is a greater tolerance for it. I think what we have to do is educate people. We have to educate people then we have to help the users and then we have to punish the dealers, more than they are being punished today.' The evidence of a worsening situation was there on the canvass for the councillor who went back to houses where he knew there had been drug problems in the past. Cllr Guerin said: 'The biggest single shock I got on the canvass this time, is when you call to houses you know where there has been difficulties with drugs in the past and you see that they are no better, and in fact, things have got worse.' Cllr Guerin has also recognised homelessness as a growing issue in Fingal and he has gone as far as to say that council staff dealing with the issue need support and a structure to share the harrowing stories they are hearing every day. He explained: 'I've made representations for several people on housing and two in particular, were very difficult cases and speaking to the staff on the council, you hear them tell you how there are so many people worse off. 'I have written a letter to Paul Reid (County Chief Executive) because so extreme are the cases coming in front of the staff that there should be a structure put in place where staff can be debriefed and supported. 'They need somewhere to share these experiences and get a little bit of help themselves because if you are sitting down and every day people are coming in and you are seeing this hardship, it can't but effect them.' And he sees a link between homelessness and drug abuse. Cllr Guerin said: 'The real crisis is when you see a young mother with three kids living in one room of a house where there's violence and drugs - I've seen so much of that and a lot of those problems go back to drug abuse and we've done nothing about it.' In five years time, Cllr Guerin would like to look back at his time on the council and see that the local authority has got involved in drug awareness and education programmes for young people all over the county and he wants to see drug use as socially unacceptable as drinking and driving has become. Cllr Guerin was late into the race for Fingal County Council seats and ran a three-week campaign, aided by his close-knit family and he acknowledges that part of his name recognition comes from his heroic sister, Veronica Guerin, who was the victim of a gangland murder for her exposes on Ireland's criminal underworld, written for the Irish and Sunday Independent. Asked if that association can sometimes be a double-edged sword, Cllr Guerin said: 'I do get a huge amount of name recognition. Nothing associated with my name is a double-edge sword but I know what you mean. 'There is a huge affection out there for Veronica still. You hear some lovely stories when you are out canvassing and some people are very genuine and they want to tell you stories about Veronica and that's nice and it's touching. 'There certainly is a name recognition factor there but does it get you elected? No, because it didn't the first time. 'We only ran a three and a half week campaign - I was the last to enter. Initially I wasn't going to, then I had a look at the panel and thought, maybe we could do this. 'We ran a clever three week campaign where I combined 30 years of experience in running elections in Fianna Faíl with my sons' knowledge of social media and we packed it into a short punchy campaign.' The new councillor found himself in a rather unique place in the campaign when his day job clashed with his political interests. Before deciding to run, Cllr Guerin, who has a printing business, won the contract for Fine Gael's local election literature in the area and later found himself campaigning against candidates he printed promotional leaflets for. Cllr Guerin has a passionate interest in tackling crime of all kinds and believes that increasing Garda resources is a good place to start. He laments the fact that the Howth/Malahide ward has no 24-hour Garda stations in it and says that crime has risen because of that. He has huge sympathy for the Gardaí, as they struggle to fight crime with dwindling resources. The independent councillor said: 'I have always said that the gardaí are the unspoken victims of crime and they are not given the resources to do the job. 'When Veronica was shot, it was within a couple of weeks of Garda Gerry McCabe being shot dead in Limerick. 'If either of those crimes had been the only major crime within that six month period you would not have had the same reaction. 'People think the reaction to Veronica's death was because it was so horrific and of course it was, but it was also because it came so close to Garda being shot. 'At that stage, the resources that were made available to the Gardaí allowed them to take on the criminals, and they won. 'But since then, the resources have been slowly taken back and crime started rising again. But, it just shows you that when the resources are made available, you can tackle crime.' Fingal Independent 
