drugs
{  
    September 07 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/shocking-rise-in-drug-abuse-in-north-cork-27054746.html }
NORTH Cork has a growing drugs problem and even young teenagers are seeking help from treatment centres for problems with abuse of cannabis and harder drugs.A new study of drug abuse in the HSE Southern Region has revealed a startling increase in drug abuse across all social classes in the area. According to Director of Addiction Services in the Southern Area Willie Collins NORTH Cork has a growing drugs problem and even young teenagers are seeking help from treatment centres for problems with abuse of cannabis and harder drugs. A new study of drug abuse in the HSE Southern Region has revealed a startling increase in drug abuse across all social classes in the area. According to Director of Addiction Services in the Southern Area Willie Collins the rising drug abuse problem throughout the region is mirrored in North Cork. Over 4,000 Cork people have sought treatment for drug addiction over a five-year period and of those over 1,600 relapsed and had to seek further assessment, according to a grim report just released by the Health Research Board (HRB). Cannabis and ecstasy topped the list of drugs for which Cork people sought treatment with 1,601 cannabis users and 393 ecstasy addicts recorded. Speaking to 
The Corkman, Willie Collins, Director of Addiction Services in the Southern Area, said the drugs problem in Cork was, “a very real and very frightening phenomenon.” He revealed that he has seen drug users in Cork as young as 10 and 11 years-old since he became director of services in 1997. He also said there has been a rise in the use of heroin in Cork and it is becoming an increasing concern for medical staff. While the report stated that more males sought treatment for drug addiction, Mr Collins said many of his colleagues have reported equal number of males and females seeking treatment. He added that many patients attended clinics looking for help for both alcohol and drug addiction. Worringly, he said it’s very common among drug users to dabble in more than one drug. The report showed that 571 people used four or more drugs at any one time and that many who used drugs and alcohol would suffer from a relapse at some stage. “Two-thirds or even three-quareters of patients use cannabis and ecstasy and of course alcohol and drugs often go hand in hand. While drug abuse is a very serious problem in this county, it’s alcohol which is the most dangerous,” said Mr Collins. Within the timeframe of the study, which covered the period from 1998 to 2002, some 4,199 Cork people sought help in various treatment centres throughout the county. Mr Collins said many of those who sought treatment were from an under privileged background, but he warned the belief that drug addiction only afflicts the less well off in society is a myth. “I’ve seen third level students attend clinics. I’ve seen professional people from affluent backgrounds come through our doors. Drugs don’t have any social boundaries they afflict the person involved, their family and friends,” said Mr Collins. While numerous reports have been undertaken into alcoholism, it is only in the last few years that the widespread abuse of drugs has been treated as a serious problem. He noted that Dr Jim Jackson undertook numerous alcohol addiction studies in the past, however he is now turning his expertise on drug dependency and drug abuse in Ireland. In the five-year period covered by the study, 2,448 new patients sought help in Cork while 1,655 patients returned to centres seeking further assistance. Mr Collins was strongly criticial of the level of funding provided to treat people in Cork. “We’ve been given ?500,000 to help thousands of people and it just isn’t enough. In the time period from 1998 to 2001 we increased our staff from seven to 22 but the services simply cannot stretch to help people in Kanturk, Mallow or Fermoy. We need more funding,” said Mr Collins. He said that since 2001 the funding has remained static. “While some funding is better than no funding it’s very very difficult to assess the problem and deal with with it head-on. We have a system in place but obviously we would like to see this being developed more. If we had more funding we could increase our services and help more people. It’s really as simple as that.” In total, 33,350 people sought treatment throughout Ireland for drug depency and Mr Collins believes that the number in the Cork region may well rocket as the figures in the report have continuously stated an increase in drug taking in the area. The detailed research, undertaken by Dr Jean Long, senior researcher in the Drug Misuse Research Division of the HRB, uncovered drug abuse by teenagers as young as 15 years old. 
