drugs
{ Aideen Sheehan  Consumer Correspondent 
    October 17 2011 03:49 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/pharmacists-charge-mark-ups-of-354pc-on-prescription-medicines-26782753.html }
PHARMACISTS are charging customers huge mark-ups that can double the price of life-saving medicines. An investigation by the Irish Independent found that pharmacists impose mark-ups of between 73pc and 354pc on the wholesale price of prescription drugs for private customers. And new research comparing international prices found that pharmacy mark-ups here dwarf those in Britain and in Sweden -- a country whose population is closer in size to Ireland's. The Consumers' Association of Ireland last night described the prices being charged here as "outrageously high". The Irish Pharmacy Union (IPU) claims prices are high because manufacturers set higher factory prices for drugs than in other countries. But our research shows that -- with the exception of some overpriced generic drugs -- the mark-ups imposed by pharmacists are largely to blame. For example, the cholesterol-lowering drug Lipitor has a wholesale price in Ireland of €36.06, but costs customers €65.77 -- a mark-up of 82pc. Across the border in Northern Ireland, Lipitor has a wholesale price of €32.36, but costs customers just €48.63 -- a 50pc mark-up for pharmacists.  Exorbitant And in Sweden the same medication has a higher wholesale price of €51.30, but costs customers just €58.57. The pharmacy mark-up is just 14pc. Taking 10 common drugs, the Irish Independent established the wholesale price of each as set by the HSE and then checked the retail price at three pharmacy chains representing 163 chemist shops nationwide. Boots pharmacies had the most exorbitant prices, closely followed by Sam McCauleys and then Unicare. And the amount charged by pharmacists to private customers is far in excess of what pharmacists are paid by the State to provide the same drugs to public patients. This is despite the fact that pharmacists are paid a 20pc retail mark-up and a €5 dispensing fee under the Drug Payment Scheme (DPS) For example, the stomach drug Esomeprazole retails in Boots at €55.33 to private patients. This is 44pc more than the top price of €38.51 pharmacists are paid for issuing it to public patients under the DPS. The HSE condemned the scale of the mark-ups. A spokeswoman said all consumers should benefit from the wholesale lower drug prices and the reduced 20pc retail mark-up enforced in recent years. "The HSE advises members of the public that if they are being charged more than the drug price listed on the HSE website for prescription medicines they should immediately discuss any shortfall with their pharmacy and seek a refund," she said. The IMF made it a condition of their bailout deal that the lower pharmacy mark-ups be enforced. However, pharmacists insist they are free to set their own prices to private patients -- and the HSE appears legally powerless to stop them. IPU president Darragh O'Loughlin said the mark-ups incorporated a dispensing fee for a professional service, which explained why the percentages were higher for cheaper drugs and lower for more expensive ones. It is an accepted feature of the Irish healthcare system that private patients pay more to cross-subsidise lower state prices, he claimed "A large number of pharmacies have gone into liquidation in the last year-and-a-half, which would not be the case if they were making super high profits," he said. Central Statistics Office figures show that despite wholesale price cuts, the price of private prescriptions has fallen by just 9pc since 2009. A Boots spokesperson said pharmacies were justified in charging higher mark-ups than other retailers because they were highly regulated and had to provide patients with expert medical advice on harmful side effects and interactions between drugs. The Consumers' Association of Ireland (CAI) said prescription drug prices in Ireland remained outrageously high. "It's just intolerable how high drug prices remain and pharmacists have to realise they cannot keep charging these excessive mark-ups at a time when all other businesses have cut theirs," said CAI chief executive Dermott Jewell. The decade-old proposal to allow consumers purchase cheaper generic drugs must finally be introduced and pharmacies should also be forced to display the prices of the top-selling medicines to boost competition, he said. However, some generic drugs are massively overpriced in Ireland at manufacturer level -- for example, the migraine drug sumatriptan costs €6.32 in the UK and €36.69 here, with wholesale prices of €1.72 and €21.11 respectively. Irish Independent 
