drugs
{  
    December 19 2014 06:31 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/courts/coroner-warns-of-dr-death-drug-after-it-claims-life-of-26-year-old-woman-at-party-30850786.html }
A coroner has warned of the dangers of a drug known as 'Dr Death' which claimed the life of a 26-year-old woman. The drug, which is also known as 'Super Ecstasy' and 'Green Rolex' due to it's colour, caused the death of the young woman following a party in Tullamore, Co Offaly. Offaly County Coroner's Court heard how the woman had been drinking and taking drugs in an apartment on William Street. A number of people were at the party, including the woman's two sisters, which occurred on April 23rd last. The woman fell ill after consuming the drugs and was rushed to the Midland Regional Hospital in Tullamore. The inquest into her death was told that she suffered a cardiac arrest and passed away shortly afterwards. The court heard she overdosed on 'Dr Death'.  Speaking at the inquest earlier this week, Offaly County Coroner Brian Mahon said the young woman's death served as a stark warning to anybody taking such drugs.  "There is a lesson for all of us. This drug is absolutely lethal," the Tullamore Tribune newspaper reported him as saying. "For other people involved in this let the word go out that this stuff is absolutely lethal for those involved in this type of socialising," he said. The woman's sister gave evidence that a group of people were drinking all day on April 22nd. She later saw her sister taking two "bombs" of MDMA. The deceased was advised not to take anymore and she said she wouldn't. However, when her sister saw her the following morning, her eyes were "rolling" and an ambulance was called. In response to a series of questions posed by the coroner, the witness said a number of people in the apartment consumed the same substance. The other sister told the inquest the victim sounded "fine" the next morning but was "dragging her chest". Her condition worsened and her lips then turned blue.  By the time she was put into an ambulance, she was not moving, the witness said. Another woman, who was not related to the victim, told the inquest they were taking "meths" and drinking alcohol at the same time. She told the inquest the victim had continued consuming drugs until 4am or 5am. Continuing her evidence, she said she had taken the drug before as had the deceased. A post mortem found significant levels of two drugs - PMA and PMMA - in the young woman. Dr Nurual Noor, a consultant pathologist at the Midland Regional Hospital in Tullamore,  said PMMA causes hallucinations and hypothermia. If taken in high doses, it can lead to cardiac arrest. The levels of MDMA were low, he said. Dr Noor's conclusion was that the woman died from an overdose of amphetamine type drugs, particularly PMMA. The pathologist said he expected to see more cases in the future as PMMA has become more prevalent in society. Users got a "quicker" and "longer" high depending on how the drug was consumed, he said. Mr Mahon said the woman's death from the drug was similar to six deaths in Dublin, Northern Ireland and Glasgow. "It's a virulent, unpredictable and lethal variant of ecstasy," he said, adding that those who had taken it would need cold showers to cool down while experiencing a high heart rate and convulsions. He added that he expected a similar case to come before him in the New Year.  Online Editors 
