drugs
{  
    June 22 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/nenagh-district-court-briefs-27453495.html }
Fired Gun In Portroe A 25-year-old man who fired a shotgun in Portroe in the early hours of the morning had his case adjourned to September 21. Kieran McGrath, 2 Cloneybrien, Killaloe, fell asleep in his car after drinking in a local pub on January 30 last. His solicitor, Elizabeth McGrath, added that when her client woke up he automatically got out of the vehicle with the gun and fired a shot into the air. Judge Reilly said the matter was serious. People who had retired in the village might have thought that something serious had happened. Ms McGrath said the defendant had never been in trouble before and Superintendent Jim Fitzgerald said he was satisfied it was an isolated incident.  The judge adjourned the case to allow time to establish if the defendant was suitable to undertake a contract aimed at making him make up for his wrong doing. The contract is to be devised by the group operating the Nenagh Community Reparation Scheme. A Nenagh youth who was caught with £3,500 of unlawful drugs in his possession was given nine months detention in St Patrick’s Institution at Nenagh District Court on Friday last. Superintendent Jim Fitzgerald told the court that gardai found cannabis resin, lysergide and ecstacy on October 1st last year when they searched the house in Derrylavin Heights where the defendant, Michael Darcy was living. Defending solicitor, Tony O’ Malley, said his client, aged 18 and now living at Bellvue, Coolbawn was only 17 when the find was made. He was the eldest of seven children and had left the family home at the age of 16. He obtained a flat in Roscrea and was very quickly introduced to the drugs trade. He then moved back to a flat in Nenagh where the drugs were found. He had since resolved his differences with the rest of his family and was employed by his father who was in the landscaping business. Tests showed that he was not abusing drugs now. “He was a very young and impressionable man who took a walk on the wild side,” said Mr O’ Malley. Noting that the defendant was charged with having drugs for the purposes of sale or supply, Judge Michael Reilly said: “If he had the drugs for his own use I might have taken a certain view. But supplying to others is a very serious matter.” Recognisances were fixed in the event of an appeal. A Nenagh man recently released from custody is now facing another term in detention following a conviction for drugs offences. Patrick Fagan (18), 23 Shamrock Court, got out of custody last week after he served a term for previous offences. However, he was sentenced to a further eight months in Saint Patrick’s Institution last Friday after fresh charges of drug related offences were revealed. Superintendent Jim Fitzgerald said a total of 48 ecstacy tablets were found in the defendant’s possession at Shamrock Court on October 14 last year. Judge Reilly convicted him of possessing the drug and having it for sale or supply. Recognisances were fixed in the event of an appeal. A house swap by two Nenagh mothers landed both of them in court on Friday last. The case was taken by Nenagh Urban District Council against Shona Savage and Geraldine Whelan, both tenants of houses owned by the local authority. David Hodgins, solicitor for the Council, said the two women had effectively swapped the respective houses they occupied. The Council now wanted the defendants’ to return to the dwellings they originally lived in. Mariea Flanagan, solicitor for Ms Savage, said her client, a mother-of-two children, did not want to go against the wishes of the Council. She had been living in Annbrook Heights and had been quite happy to continue living there. However, she had been the subject of a criminal assault and got some annoying phone calls which had upset her. The court heard she moved to Geraldine Whelan’s house in Hamilton Drive and Ms Whelan had moved to her house in Annbrook Heights. By moving to Hamilton Drive, Ms Savage was only two doors away from where her mother lived and she wanted to stay there. Noel O’ Meara, solicitor for Geraldine Whelan, said his client, a divorced mother with young children, wanted to stay in Annbrook Heights. She had spent money on decorating the house. Judge Reilly said he would adjourn the case to July 20 to allow discussions to take place. A Nenagh man who had been caught with a small amount of cannabis resin in his possession had his case struck out because he successfully completed a contract drawn up for him by a group which was established with the aim of reducing crime in Nenagh. The fact that Michael Lynch of 4 Whitewalls Drive, St Conlon’s Road had completed the contract, set for him by the group operating the Nenagh Community Reparation Project, was an indication of the success of the project, said Judge Reilly. The project, set up on a pilot basis in Nenagh after the judge had seen a similar scheme in operation in New Zealand, is aimed at getting offenders to undertake a project aimed at getting them to make up to the community for their crimes and encouraging them to stop re-offending. The judge said he recently had the opportunity to outline the benefits of the project to the attendance at a recent international conference in Dublin after which much interest was expressed in relation to the scheme. He congratulated everyone for giving of their time to run the project in Nenagh. Michael Lynch had been caught with the drug in his possession at Knigh, Ballycommon on April 29 last year. A Nenagh man was warned by Judge Reilly that he will go to jail for ten months unless he completes a term of community service work imposed on him at a previous sitting of the court. The court heard that Anthony Fitzpatrick, 3 Glen House, Bulfin Road, Nenagh, had done 98 hours of his community service, but still had 102 hours left to complete. The Probation Officer, Donal Hurley said a condition in the order made at the previous court was that the defendant was to spend ten months in jail if he failed to do the community service. The defendant’s solicitor, Tom Kelly, said his client could lose his job if he took time off to do the community service. He was prepared to work on his holidays to get the service completed. The judge adjourned the case to July 20 and ordered the defendant to do eight hours service a week up to that date. “If he doesn’t do it he goes to jail.” A Nenagh couple with young children who have been squatting in a house owned by the local Urban District Council must leave the house, Judge Reilly ruled. The judge granted the Council possession of the house at 8 Summerhill, but gave Alan Ray and Lorraine Ryan three months to vacate the premises. Alan Ray told the court that he and Ms Ryan were trying to find alternative accommodation, but couldn’t find any. Nobody wanted to rent a premises to a couple with children, he claimed. A defendant who has been charged with possessing the drug, diazepan, and having it for sale or supply has been deemed suitable to undertake a contract drawn up for him by the group running the Nenagh Community Reparation Project. Damien Muldowney, 19 Yewston, Nenagh, had his case adjourned to October 19 to allow him to undertake the contract. Under the scheme, defendants’ who successfully complete a contract normally have the charges against them struck out. In Damien Muldowney’s case, Judge Reilly gave the gardai liberty to re-enter the case at 24 hours notice in the event of a further offence being committed. The defendant was caught with the drug at Silver Street on June 2 last year. Another defendant had his case adjourned to September 21 after the court was told that he was prepared to enter a contract under the scheme. Gerry O’ Connor, 19 Hamilton Drive, Nenagh, is charged with possessing cannabis resin at Sarsfield Street, Nenagh on November 10 last year. Meanwhile Stephen Ryan, 71 Cormack Drive, Nenagh, had his case adjourned to September 21 after he was charged with failing to comply with the directions of a garda and engaging in threatening abusive words or behaviour at Kickham Street on August 4 last year. His solicitor, Mariea Flanagan said she understood that a contract had been drawn up for him by the Nenagh Community Reparation Project. A Nenagh man who assaulted a garda claimed that his drink had been spiked earlier in the night. Michael Ryan, 71 Cormack Drive, pleaded guilty to assaulting Garda Frank Hynes at Ashe Road on August 4 last year. He also pleaded to failing to comply with a direction of a garda and to engaging in threatening, abusive, insulting words or behaviour. Defending solicitor, Mariea Flanagan, said her client, aged 23, believed that his drink had been spiked. The day after the offence he went to apologise for his behaviour to the gardai. Judge Reilly imposed a six months prison sentence, which he said he would suspend on condition that the defendant did not get in any trouble for two years and paid a fine of £150. A motorist caught driving with excess alcohol was fined £275 and banned from driving for two years. Roy Moran, 25 Annbrook Heights, Nenagh, a 27-year-old blocklayer, was also ordered to pay a total of £144 expenses and had an endorsement imposed on his licence. The driving ban is to take effect from August 1st next. The offence was detected after he was stopped at Ballyhogan on January 8 last. A dispute between two women in Toomevara ended up with one of them getting a black eye, Superintendent Jim Fitzgerald told the court. The incident happened at around 11.30pm on March 2 last at Castlequarter, Toomevara. Before the court was Maureen Mitchell who was charged with and assault on Bridget Casey. “There was no serious injury, a black eye was the only injury,” said the Superintendent. Defending solicitor, Tom Kelly, said the dispute was a minor affair. Judge Reilly marked the case proved and adjourned it to November 23. He gave the gardai liberty to re-enter the case on 24 hours notice if there was any further trouble. “If there is no further trouble I will be lenient,” he said. A Nenagh man who was arrested by gardai after a domestic dispute was given a three month suspended jail sentence after he pleaded guilty to assault and possession of knives. John Gilmartin, Monsea, Ballycommon, had no recollection of the incident which occurred at Monsea on June 12 last year, his solicitor, Noel O’Meara told the court. Mr O’ Meara said his client was seriously intoxicated on the occasion. He was now getting treatment and things with his wife were okay. He had lost his job in which he was employed for 26 years. “I do not think he is going to re-offend,” said Mr O’ Meara. He had pleaded guilty to an assault on John McCarthy and possession of knives and other articles on the date. The jail sentence was suspended on condition that he did not commit any other offence for a period of two years. A Nenagh man who had pleaded guilty at a previous court to drug related offences had his case adjourned to July 27. Judge Reilly said he wanted a probation report on Maurice Aherne of Monaree. The defendant had pleaded guilty to possession of ecstacy on October 5 last year and having it for sale or supply. After reading reports on the defendant, the judge remarked that he seemed to be doing reasonably well. The court heard that the defendant was completely free of drugs. Superintendent Jim Fitzgerald agreed that the defendant was making a genuine effort to give up drugs. In adjourning the case, the judge said he was thinking of imposing 200 hours of community service, or ten months in jail. He ordered that the random drug testing continue on the defendant until the next time he appears in court. A Nenagh man has been ordered to do 100 hours of community service. Robert Ryan, MacDonagh Street, had been convicted at a previous court of being intoxicated and engaging in disorderly conducted in Kenyon Street in the town. The offences took place on March 25 last. “You have a chance now and you should take it,” Judge Reilly told him. A motorist caught driving with excess alcohol in his system was banned from driving for two years and fined £350. Gerry McElwaine, 22 Annbrook Heights, an electrician and father-of-two, was ordered to pay a total of £144 expenses and had an endorsement imposed on his licence for the offence which was detected after he was stopped at Sarsfield Street, Nenagh on February 2 last. The driving ban will take effect from December 1st next. A bench warrant was issued for a Nenagh man who failed to turn up in court to answer four public order charges. Sean Canning, 19 Hamilton Drive, is charged with being intoxicated in a public place, disorderly conduct, engaging in threatening, abusive, insulting words or behaviour and failing to comply with the directions of a garda. The incidents allegedly occurred in the early hours of May 26 last in Pearse Street, Nenagh. A Nenagh man who claimed he had drank eighteen pints of beer came before the court on public order charges. Lalor McGee, 47 Ballygraigue, Nenagh, was charged with being intoxicated, engaging in disorderly conduct, using threatening, abusive, insulting words or behaviour and failing to comply with the directions of a garda. The incidents allegedly occurred in the early hours of June 9 last at Dublin Road Nenagh. Superintendent Jim Fitzgerald said the defendant claimed he had drank eighteen pints of beer, resulting in his offences. His solicitor, Tom Kelly, said his client was 34-years-old and a married man. He suggested that he might be a suitable candidate for the Nenagh Community Reparation Project. He had never been in trouble before. The judge adjourned the case to September. Two brothers from Portroe who appeared on a number of charges under the Public Order Act following an incident in Nenagh had their cases adjourned to September 21. Thomas Quinn, Killoran, Portroe was charged with being intoxicated in a public place, disorderly conduct, engaging in threatening, abusive, insulting words or behaviour and failing to comply with the direction of a garda. Joe Quinn, same address, was charged with using threatening, abusive, insulting words or behaviour and failing to comply with the direction of a garda. The incidents occurred at Pearse Street on June 3 last. Superintendent Jim Fitzgerald said both men became involved in a melee, basically because they had too much drink taken. The offences were committed at 1.50am. Elizabeth McGrath, the solicitor for the two men, said a friend of theirs had being challenged by another person and they became involved. They had never been in trouble before. Judge Reilly adjourned the case to see if the defendants were suitable to participate under the Nenagh Community Reparation Project. An off-duty garda was assaulted by a Nenagh man, Judge Reilly was told. Rory McDonnell, Ballintoher Nenagh pleaded guilty to the assault on Tony Brehon at Dublin Road, Nenagh, in the early hours of August 13 last year. The defendant, along with his cousin, Colm McDonnell, Pallas, Carrigatoher, also pleaded to being intoxicated and to disorderly conduct on the same date. Defending solicitor, Noel O’ Meara, said the defendants were in a nightclub where the off-duty garda was also socialising. An assault took place. The two men were “stoned out of their minds” and unfortunately Rory McDonnell got a wrong impression and accused the off-duty garda of “hanging him out to dry” on a previous occasion “or something like that”. “Garda Brehon was only doing his job and Rory McDonnell was totally out of order and has apologised to the garda,” said Mr O’ Meara. Judge Reilly ordered both defendants to immediately pay £500 to the Garda Benevolent Fund and said he would adjourn the case for twelve months. He gave the gardai liberty to re-enter the case with 24 hours notice if there was any further trouble. A bench warrant was issued for the arrest of a man charged with being intoxicated in a public place and using threatening, abusive, insulting words or behaviour . Gerard Manning (22), Upper Sarsfield Street, Nenagh, failed to turn up to answer the charges in court on Friday last. The alleged offences are said to have taken place in Friar Street, Nenagh on June 14 last. 
