drugs
{ ine Kerr  Political Correspondent 
    February 21 2008 04:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/drug-drivers-go-undetected-due-to-lack-of-roadside-tests-26424873.html }
Just 218 drivers tested positive for drug driving last year due to the absence of a system which will definitively prove the presence of drugs at the roadside. The Road Safety Authority (RSA) said that the absence of one conclusive roadside test was to blame for a failure to undertake rigorous drugs testing, even when the extent of the problem is widely acknowledged. The number of tests undertaken for drug driving compares dismally with the 18,821 incidents of drink driving. Yesterday, Garda Commissioner Fachtna Murphy confirmed that 218 incidents of drug driving occurred last year. "This is in addition to the 18,821 detected intoxicated driving incidents recorded which includes alcohol or drugs or any combination," he said. Responding to opposition criticisms of the low number of drug tests undertaken, chief executive of the RSA, Noel Brett, said drug driving was "an area of significant concern" and a "frightening issue". The first anti-drug television campaign will be launched by the RSA shortly in recognition of the new phenomenon. Yesterday, Mr Brett told the committee that polydrug use whereby people are taking more than one illicit drug combined with alcohol was creating significant problems for gardai conducting tests. However, a widely-used saliva test which takes three minutes to conduct on the roadside is being examined in a bid to confront drug driving. Mr Brett also said there was no single roadside device which will detect drug taking. Instead, blood or urine samples are required at a garda station, placing responsibility on gardai to recognise the symptoms of driving impairment due to drugs. Impairment In other countries, "impairment tests" such as asking drivers to recite the alphabet backwards or walk a straight line are conducted. Mr Brett yesterday suggested such tests should be introduced to the Irish system. At the meeting of the Oireachtas committee on transport yesterday, the RSA also revealed that 3pc of single road deaths countrywide can be linked to suicide. The authority also told TDs and Senators it has written to the Transport Minister seeking an increase in the penalty points for speeding offences from two points to three points and that the option of introducing lower drink levels for young and new drivers is being examined. A decision on whether the legal limit should be reduced, from the current 80mg per 100ml to 50mg per 100ml, will feature in a report to be submitted to Transport Minister Noel Dempsey at the end of March. The RSA is also working with the Irish Pharmaceutical Union about the use of prescription drugs and over-the-counter drugs which can impair driving and cause driver fatigue. Driver fatigue is a contributory factor in up to 20pc of fatal crashes according to the RSA which yesterday contended that "driving when tired is as dangerous as driving while over the drink-drive limit." The Garda Commissioner said 458,504 fixed charge notices were issued last year, 198,820 of which were for speeding. Seat belt offences accounted for 30,413 incidents and mobile phones 32,612. 
