drugs
{ DON LAVERY 
    December 30 2007 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/gift-of-cocaine-amid-the-christmas-cards-26341566.html }
THERE it was beside two Christmas cards in my apartment letterbox: a wrap of cocaine. The drug has defined 2007 in many people's minds, culminating in the senseless death of model Katy French, and many other young people foolish enough to take it. After slitting open the cheap plastic bag to confirm that it was coke, I put the drug and the remains of the bag into two ziplock containers. My reaction was instant. I phoned the garda. Two young uniformed gardai came quickly to my home in Co Dublin and took the evidence, saying the drug would be examined and then destroyed. In all likelihood it was a drugs-drop into the wrong letterbox. But one garda offered the unlikely suggestion that drugs were being dropped free into letterboxes to get the occupants hooked. Unlikely, that is, until I remembered the Bahamas 25 years ago, before heroin devastated inner city Dublin. On the main supply route from South America, the paradise island was flooded with drugs at the time. You were followed into pub toilets or stopped in the street by men who opened large suitcases offering you every kind of drug imaginable. Today drug use is said to be almost as prevalent in Ireland. Enforcement efforts by brave gardai and customs officers are not stopping the tide for which there is huge consumer demand. For those efforts to work, the link has to be made between drug-taking and the gangland murders in Dublin and Limerick over drug turf, and to the killers of Veronica Guerin. Young people have to be educated that it is cool to say no to drugs, that taking even one E tablet could kill you, that drug taking is criminal, selfish and stupid. Criminal because it feeds the lifestyles of the drug dealers; selfish because if you do take drugs and it kills you, do you ever consider your family who are left behind to grieve? And stupid because for a temporary high you are at risk of putting yourself on the road to possible addiction and death. The word "informer" has bad connations in Irish history -- but in present day Ireland everyone should be an informer to help gardai stem the tide of criminality that is destroying our young people. The Government too should take concrete measures to educate people; they should release the hundreds of millions of euros needed to give the resources to the Naval Service and the Air Corps to properly patrol our coasts and airspace; and provide sufficient medical care for addicts. Parents should make no bones about it -- taking drugs is criminal, taking drugs is dangerous and taking drugs is unacceptable. Until these things are done, the dealers will continue to win, and our young people will continue to die in increasing numbers. Analysis, Page 22 
