drugs
{  
    May 25 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/borrisokane-schools-unique-approach-to-drugs-27453130.html }
In May 1999, an idea that came from VEC chairman, Cllr Tony McKenna in relation to drugs education for schools, via a scheme whereby senior students, following th... By Gerry Slevin In May 1999, an idea that came from VEC chairman, Cllr Tony McKenna in relation to drugs education for schools, via a scheme whereby senior students, following their participation in a course, then taught junior students, was launched at Borrisokane Community College by Defence Minister Michael Smith TD. Cllr McKenna, a former member of the teaching staff at the school, brought his idea to the school principal Matthew Carr, who at the graduation ceremony outlined the sequence of events since the launch two years ago. The Health Board, with the assistance of a peer education group, Fast Forward from Scotland were involved in providing training for North Tipperary VEC teachers in January 2000, he said. Marianne Bergin, religion teacher at Borrisokane Community College attended the training session, following which she began work with her 5th Year religion class on setting up this programme. “The 5th year group took part in a number of training sessions with Ms Bergin. Training on drugs education was also provided by the Garda Juvenile Liaison Officer, Deirdre Darcy, and prior to the Easter holidays the delivery of the programme to first year students began. The 5th year students worked in groups of six, each group being responsible for the teaching of one of the four 1st year classes in the school”, said Mr Carr.  PREPARATION WORK He commended the peer educators for taking their work so seriously and putting so much time into the preparation work - organising overhead transparencies, photo-copying, equipment etc. These educators enthusiasm really shone through,when on one occasion, rather than travel to a soccer match, they remained on in the school to prepare and deliver their lesson to the first year students. The topics covered during the six session courses were; alcohol. smoking, solvents, the use and abuse of over-the-counter drugs (cough mixtures etc). Mr Carr complimented Ms Bergin and all the participants in the course. Thanked also were Cllr McKenna, who sowed the seeds of the idea, the VEC, Health Board, and Dan Condren for co-ordinating the programme at VEC level, the school’s teaching staff in general for their co-operation. Cllr McKenna described the occasion as one of the most important he would ever attend at, either in Borrisokane Community College or elsewhere.What distinguished this approach to the drugs problem from any other, he maintained, was that the students themselves had become the programme managers, the actors in the scene. They were not merely sitting there and listening to others, rather were they active participants.  VEC ACTIVITIES Following consultation with the CEO, he said, it was decided to operate it as part of the VEC activities, thus bringing it to centre stage following its piloting in Borrisokane. He thanked each and everyone who had been involved in any way. It was all done on a voluntary basis, no pressure placed on anyone and that was so important. “I am not aware of any other school in any other area that has undertaken a programme like this and I would sincerely hope that arising from what we are celebrating here today, every other second level school will look at the drugs issue in a similar light and take up an initiative like this. The drugs issue is huge, and the people who are going to solve it are you and young people like you. There is far more impetus and influence with young people working together. This is positive peer pressure in action and I know it can work if approached in the right way”, said Cllr McKenna.  STUDENTS REACTION An interesting aspect of the function was the fact that four 5th year students along with two of the 1st year participants outlined what it all had meant to them as both ’teachers’ and ‘pupils’. Peter Joyce spoke about the preparations necessary to set the classes in motion. He said young people were best understood by other young people, hence the value of this peer training. It began, he said, with the ‘teachers’ educating themselves about drugs and this was done through twice weekly meetings with Ms Bergin and a link also with the Garda Juvenile Liaison Officer Deirdre Darcy who highlighted the alcohol situation and the consequences of under-age drinking. They were taught how to prepare lesson plans, getting to realise the importance of time management and ensuring their message was put across The methods best suited to what they were about had to be chosen -- charts, case studies, overhead projectors, slides etc, following which they had to learn how to use them. Nuala McKenna outlined the various lessons undertaken. The students were divided into four groups, each ‘teacher’ responsible for a single 1st year class. With four peer educators, the programme extended over six weeks, twice weekly. The first lesson was an introduction to drugs, with emphasis placed on alternative treatment to simple aches and pains and the realisation that there is an over use of over-the-counter drugs today.  SMOKING Lessons two and three were on smoking, which was seen as a big problem among teen-agers, especially girls. The reasons why people smoke, the harm associated with smoking, push/pull factors, passive smoking and how to change the attitude that smoking was cool, were addressed here. Many aspects of alcohol were dealt with in the following two lessons after which they dealt with solvents which were seen as becoming more common because of their wide availability and relatively cheap cost. The lessons were based on the effects of solvents on the body, the dangers associated with them and how to say ‘no’. At the end of the programme a written test was given, resulting in positive reaction to what had gone on and a realisation that they had been successful in imparting knowledge of drugs in a new and exciting way. As ‘teachers’ they were proud of the opportunity that had presented itself to them with a feel-good factor also there in regard to their role as peer teachers. Andrew Dunne admitted to being nervous initially, becoming more at ease as the classes progressed and actually enjoying the experience! As the classes progressed, he became better able to involve the students. He could see there were different personalities in the class and he had to try to keep them all interested. Some students were more willing to participate than others who were withdrawn. Others seemed to have little interest initially, but gradually all became involved as was proved in the questions asked. Alison Darcy admitted to now having a better understanding of teaching as a career as a result of the programme. She could identify better with the teacher’s role. It varied a lot and could be quite demanding but, at the same time very enjoyable.Sometimes they were faced with difficult questions and had to use different methods to get their message across.  FUTURE BEHAVIOUR Overall, as ‘teachers’ they felt they had played their part in teaching and influencing the future behaviour of young teenagers and on behalf of the ‘teachers’, Alison thanked Ms Bergin for all her assistance during the course of the programme. One of the 1st years who participated in the programme, Thomas Kennedy, said peer education was something new for them. It was also the first time dealing with the subject of drugs and it made them curious. They found the ‘teachers’ easy to talk with because of the small age gap between them, and having a good sense of humour, they were not as cross as the adult teachers were! As well as being helped to understand more the dangers of drugs, the pupils felt more at ease because it was not a regular class situation. Finally, Lorraine Davis, another of the 1st years, commended the ‘teachers’ adding that boredom had not set in in the classes. When one teacher finished a particular issue, another came along to further develop the point, bringing variety into it all. Complimenting the ‘teachers’, Lorraine said they had prepared their work very well. The group had worked very well together helping each other out. It was a great way for them to learn about drugs and she would always remember it. Before presenting the certificates, Luke Murtagh complimented everyone involved in the scheme, especially the students. He said that not alone was the occasion important because of the subject matter, but also, and more importantly, because of the way in which the subject was tackled through the inter-action of the students. In today’s world, the people who were getting a service had to be involved in its planning and development and it was so important that this be the case. Likewise, when dealing with an issue like drugs.  TWENTY YEAR PLAN Mr Murtagh said the VEC was at present preparing a twenty year plan and he could see what they about in this instance as being an important element of that plan. They were always looking at ways to improve the quality of education and he would be asking the school principal to report in detail on it at the next senior management meeting. He would also ask Ms Bergin and all involved to write up very carefully all that happened. It was very important to get the message out to the wider public. Finally, Mr Murtagh said the VEC in consultation with the staff and parents, wanted to see the role of the Borrisokane school expanded. There had already been discussions with the principal and the staff on extending the whole community education dimension, to give parents and others, an opportunity to go back to education. They wanted to locate a literary centre there as well as other elements of community education. Also, in co-operation with the County Council and with B.A.N.D. they wanted to pull all the services together there. There would be a new school built and it was important then, that they take the opportunity to broaden its role.  THE RECIPIENTS Recipients of certificates were, Aisling Barrett, Brian Comerford, Paul Connors, Carol Corbett, Alison Darcy, Linda Darcy, Laura Donnelly, Noreen Duggan, Andrew Dunne, Maria Gleeson, Deirdre Hogan, Peter Joyce, Jennifer Kennedy, Nuala McKenna, Catherine Molloy, Natalie Power, Arlene Quinn, Caroline Toohey, Audrey Torpey, Carol Chadwick, Christopher Spellman, Margaret Stack. 
