drugs
{ Mark O'Regan 
    January 02 2015 10:59 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/fear-as-vicious-new-drug-makes-addicts-crazed-30879122.html }
A NEW "vicious" drug which makes addicts "crazed and incredibly violent" is causing havoc for a growing number of families.   Gardai sources have confirmed that international traffickers are using Ireland as a "sampling area" for new synthesised forms of various drugs. Following a 'trial period' here they plan to offer them for sale in other European countries. The drugs are being sold as crack cocaine but contain chemicals including methamphetamine - also known as 'crystal meth'. Other unidentified chemicals are also included. Brother Kevin Crowley, from Dublin's Capuchin Centre, warned the new drug was making users "extremely aggressive". "There's certainly some sort of new substance out there that wasn't there before, and it's particularly dangerous. It's making abusers very violent. At the centre we have strict security but sometimes the people on this drug slip in. There have been violent instances here which have been particularly vicious," he told the Irish Independent. "I don't know what type of drug it is, but it's definitely new and stronger than what was out there before. It's all very scary and worrying," he added. In a recent incident it took eight people at a drug treatment centre in Dublin to restrain a man who had taken one of the new drugs. He had to be injected with a sedative. In another incident a young woman had to be restrained by gardai after she began sticking a syringe into her head in a Dublin street. Gardai say that the country may be entering a new era where highly dangerous drugs are entering the country with consequences for both users and the public that are still unknown. They also believe the drugs are turning up here for "testing" before traffickers sell them to major markets. One experienced drugs officer said that there is "plenty of evidence" that new drugs that cause more violent behaviour in users are becoming increasingly, and more cheaply, available. Garda sources have told of a series of recent highly violent incidents related to the use of a drug that is being sold as 'crack' but which is also believed to contain 'meth' mixed with other chemicals. Crack, a condensed form of cocaine, is expensive, with a small lump or 'rock' usually costing €100 on the streets. However, the new adulterated crack is much cheaper and is becoming popular because of the swift and dramatic 'high' it gives users. Overdose of the drug is believed to be the cause of much of the highly erratic and violent behaviour emergency staff are experiencing on the front line. Gardai admit there is no information to date about who is supplying the drugs, but believe it is associated with foreign gangs. Irish Independent 
