drugs
{  
    September 04 2004 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/gardai-slam-farcical-anti-drug-plan-26224078.html }
JIM CUSACK GARDAI will this week brand the Government's anti-drugs strategy a spectacular failure with farcical resources. A damning report by the Association of Garda Sergeants and Inspectors says that for the first time in the State's history, hard drugs are now available in "every town"in Ireland. It calls for 300 extra officers to fight drugs and says that most divisions do not even have sniffer dogs to help them find narcotics. The AGSI will also highlight growing abuse of over-the-counter painkillers and a rise in cocaine use which, when mixed with alcohol, is to blame for most urban street violence. Gardai say that addiction to freely available, non-prescription drugs like Solpadeine is an increasing problem. Officers say addicts trawl chemists and supermarkets for these drugs. Solpadeine and a number of other non-prescription pain killers contain codeine which the body converts into morphine. The report says: "There is a need to examine the abuse of non-controlled and prescription drugs. Persons selling such drugs, who are not pharmacists, can only be prosecuted for trading without a licence. "Yet this is a specific offence under the Pharmacy legislation, but the only personwho can be prosecuted is the pharmacist." The report, drawn up as the AGSI's submission to the Government's National Drugs Strategy committee, reveals how Ireland's drug problem has risen inexorably despite all efforts to reduce it. It says: "Hard drugs are now available in every town in Ireland. Towns which a few years ago had no drugs problem to speak of now have a core of drug addicts." "It is extremely difficult to arrest drug dealers unless gardai can catch them in the act or obtain other evidence as addicts are extremely unwilling to come forward to give evidence against drug pushers. As a result some additional police resources must now be devoted exclusively to dealing with the drugs problem." On the issue of sentencing, the report states that the circuit and high courts are ignoring the mandatory 10-year sentences for people in possession of illegal drugs worth over ?12,000. Only 10 per cent of people caught with over ?12,000 worth of drugs received the mandatory sentences. The AGSI will also claim that in some district courts people are not being sentenced at all for drugs possession. The report also reveals how under-resourced the Garda's anti-drugs units are and calls for the recruitment of 336 gardai to provide for a properly resourced drug unitin each of the Garda's28 divisions. It says: "Some rural drug units have no vehicles, breaching, communications or surveillance equipment. Vehicles have to be borrowed from other areas within the force. Drug units should be fully resourced in terms of equipment, walkie talkies, mobile phones etc - theseissues need to be addressed immediately." The report is also critical of the lack of Garda sniffer dogs, the best means of detecting drugs in container trucks. It says: "At present it is extremely difficult to get a dog from the Dog Unit and sometimes up to one week's notice is required - totally impractical from a police response perspective. There are also budgetary restraints in the use of dogs in that the expenses have to come from the Divisional budgets." There should be purpose-built drugs detention centres, suitably located, to deal with individuals with drugs concealed in body orifices. Gardai also say that it is often impossible for anti-drugs units at divisional level, who have made some of the biggest drugs finds in recent years, to find cars and other equipment. Earlier this year, in one of the biggest seizures ever made, a Dublin drugs unit had to enlist the assistance of a traffic unit outside Dublin to help them stop a van containing more than ?10m worth of drugs. The case is before the courts. The AGSI report says the Government's much-vaunted 'inter-agency' drugs strategy is failing to have any impact. It states: "AGSI feels that a more rigorous approach is needed to organising the multi-agency approach and there is a need to establish them on a statutory basis. Many agencies are continuing to work in isolation and 'doing their own thing'. While such work may be useful on a local level, it lacks the impact that a fully co-ordinated approach could bring to the situation." 
