drugs
{  
    November 05 2016 12:00 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/taxi-driving-drugs-courier-is-jailed-for-three-years-35176134.html }
A 54 year old father of four has been jailed for four years for drugs offences by Judge Keenan Johnson who told Sligo Circuit Court that he accepted the defendant was a courier rather  than a dealer or supplier and had got involved to try to clear a drug debt ran up by one of his sons. Tom Gethins of Garavogue Villas was caught with €19,212 worth of cocaine and cannabis after his taxi was stopped by gardaí on October 6th 2015. The drugs were found in his trouser pockets while deals of cocaine were located in the taxi. More drugs were later found at a shed at his house, cannabis worth €656 and cocaine valued at €1,703. Gethins, a former County Council outdoor staff member, who also operated a taxi for 12 years had pleaded guilty to possession for sale or supply and to having drugs worth in excess of €13,000, an offence which can attract a mandatory ten year prison term unless there are exceptional and specific circumstances relating to the offence to make the imposition of such a term unjust. Giving judgement on Tuesday morning last, having remanded Gethins in custody for a week, Judge Johnson said the defendant had made full admissions to Gardaí at Sligo Garda Station after his arrest at Langan Drive and told them there were further drugs at his home and in a van parked outside. However, by the time Gardaí got to the house the van had been broken into and no drugs were found in it. Cash in the amount of €10,300 was found in the house in a number of envelopes which the defendant did not accept was the proceeds of the sale of drugs. Writing on the envelopes indicated that some of the money were from the sale of vehicles while others were saved for different household bills, said the Judge. The defendant also indicated the reason he was in possession of the drugs was because he was put under pressure in respect of a drug debt incurred by his son, Kyle who had emigrated to Australia leaving the debt unpaid and that the owner of this debt had pressurised him into acting as a drug courier. The Judge noted that the primary aggravating factor in the case was the quantity of the drugs which had a combined value of over €22,000. "Allied to this the fact that there were deal bags with cocaine in the taxi has to be viewed as an aggravating factor. It is concerning that a legitimate taxi is being used at its most benign interpretation as a method of transporting cocaine deals," he said. A further aggravating factor was the type of drugs and in particular the fact the bulk of the drugs were cocaine which was a hard drug that had a very corrosive effect on its users and society in general. Mitigating factors included Gethins' early guilty plea and that admissions made during interview were of assistance in the investigation of the case and the successful prosecution. Judge also noted that the defendant had lost the means to earn a living. He had been employed by the Council for 27 years and had a taxi licence for 12 years. He was now unemployed and unemployable which "for a man who had a good work record and work ethic is of itself a significant and substantial punishment." It was also noted in mitigation said the Judge that the defendant was a good family man of four grown up children. His son Kyle had a drug habit and he left for Australia while another son ran his own taxi. One daughter was working and another was in college while his wife was a highly respected in the community. "I have read the numerous testimonials handed in to court and they paint a picture of a man who is a hard worker, a good friend and someone who is very remorseful for having become involved in the transport of illegal drugs, " said Judge Johnson. At 54, prison was clearly going to be difficult for him and he had to bear this in mind. A report stated the defendant was free from any illicit drugs and did not have a drug habit. "While this is a mitigating factor it is also somewhat of a double edged sword from the accused's point iof view in that being somebody who was free from drugs and who had experienced the devastation that drugs can cause through addictions which his son Kyle had, he should have been more aware of the dangers of drugs to society and therefore he should have been less inclined to become involved as a drug courier. "I am accepting for sentencing purposes that when the accused committed these offences he was acting under duress from the owners of his son Kyle's drug debts and I am confirmed in this view by the forthright admissions made by the accused while being interviewed by the Gardaí and also by the fact that the vehicle in which some drugs were stored at his house had been broken into between the time of this arrest and the time Gardaí searched it. "This would indicate that the accused was being observed by other parties and presumably by the mastermind behind the entire drugs operation. "This therefore indicates to me that the accused was a small cog in the wheel of a bigger illicit drug enterprise. "Furthermore, the absence of any drug paraphernalia in his house when searched by Gardaí is again indicative that his role was that of courier as opposed to dealer/supplier," said Judge Johnson. He said the early plea of guilt, admissions, previous good record, loss of employment, value of the drugs which was about €9,000 above the statutory value of €13,000 and the fact that a prison sentence in itself for somebody with such a good work record and no prior convictions of any consequence was going to to be a significant punishment in itself, he was satisfied these factors constituted the exceptional and specific circumstances which allowed him impose a sentence of less than the mandatory minimum term of ten years. He jailed Gethins for three years. "The primary reason why a custodial element had to be imposed in this case is to reflect the gravity of the offence and the culpability of the offender. "The accused made a bad decision when he allowed himself to become involved in the offending and unfortunately he must now suffer the consequences of that bad decision," concluded the Judge. Sligo Champion 
