drugs
{  
    August 18 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/when-the-good-drugs-really-dont-work-26250274.html }
Drug companies, regulatory bodies and the public can all  play a part ensuring our medicine is safe, says Fergal  Bowers. IT NOW costs over £500m for a pharmaceutical company to develop a new drug. Despite years of intensive clinical trials and tests on animals and humans, the real measure of its success and safety is when it becomes available to the public generally. In recent years, some drugs have been withdrawn after a very short time due to serious side effects, unexpected interactions with other drugs and reported deaths. These events have heightened public concern over the quality of testing of medical products before they are available on prescription or indeed, over the counter. In the last five years, 11 drugs have been withdrawn from the Irish market for safety reasons, according to the regulatory body here, the Irish Medicines Board (IMB). Many of these are voluntary withdrawals by the companies after adverse side effects have been reported by doctors. In the vast majority of cases, the development of adverse cardiac effects was the reason given for withdrawal, in some cases due to the drug interacting with other products. Figures now show that over 20 per cent of hospital admissions are due to drug interactions and up to eight per cent of admissions are due to bad reactions to drugs, according to the National Medicines Information Centre at St James's Hospital. Our prescription use is soaring in Ireland, as evidenced by the fact that last year in the medical card scheme, 32 million prescription items were issued for 1.1 million people covered. Heart drugs, asthma drugs and treatments for gastric problems are the most commonly prescribed medicines. In the past fortnight, the cholesterol-lowering drug Lipobay was withdrawn by Bayer after reports that 31 patients had died because it interacted with another drug they were taking called Lopid. Irish people on this product now have to visit their GP, at their own cost if they do not have a medical card, to have the treatment ended and for their condition to be reviewed. At European level, this class of drugs, called statins, used to reduce cholesterol is being reviewed because of the Lipobay problem although there are no reports of difficulties with other products in this area. It's not just medicines that have the public concerned. Last week, some batches of the popular infant powder formula SMA Gold and SMA White were withdrawn here after a case of botulism in England. We have also seen vaccines and blood products at the centre of dramatic withdrawals here in recent times. A drug interaction happens when the effect of one drug is altered by the presence of another drug, food, drink or environmental agent. A complicating factor is that some patients, often those who are taking herbal medicines, do not tell their family doctor about this when the GP is prescribing a drug. Sometimes the mix can be fatal. Some of the blame lies with the patients themselves. All medicines have product information and there are warnings about drug interactions. In the case of Lipobay, patients were already warned against it being used with Lipitor but ignored or were unaware of the danger. Before a drug is allowed on the Irish or other markets, it has to undergo a series of stringent, independent trials. These show whether it is safe and effective and if it is an improvement on existing treatments. An application for a licence to sell the product is then sought from the IMB, which will review the studies and decide whether to provide authorisation. Where, for instance, a new drug to manage hypertension is being developed, the makers will need to have independent studies to demonstrate how the new drug interacts with existing hypertension drugs that may also be prescribed in conjunction with the new product. However, there is no requirement to test the new drug with all others to see whether there is a bad interaction, a requirement that would be unworkable and excessively onerous. After the product gets a licence to be prescribed, post-marketing surveillance monitors any problems in the open market. The pharmaceutical industry spends millions of pounds each year promoting these prescription medicines to doctors here. In Ireland, the IMB operates a system of Adverse Drug Reaction reporting for drug companies and doctors. While drug companies must make such disclosure, doctors are not obliged to make reports if they see a bad reaction in a patient. It's a voluntary system that has its flaws due to underreporting. There are some clear risk factors for drug interactions worth bearing in mind. The elderly are high risk because often they are taking several drugs a day and the potential for a bad interaction is greater. Other people have a genetic characteristic that could mean, for example, that if they take grapefruit juice and a particular drug, they become ill.The area of complementary and herbal medicine is currently under scrutiny by the IMB. It has been asked to report to the Health Minister on a new licensing system for traditional and alternative medical products, of which there are over 3,000. The existing regulations which apply to prescribed drugs do not apply to alternative medicines. Self-medication with herbal medicines is very popular. Indeed, herbs have been used in medicine since the beginning of time and many of the drugs commercially available today are derived from plants. However, some people are reluctant to tell their family doctor that they are taking herbal medicines because of the fear of being criticised. As a result, the risk of drug-herbal interactions may not be spotted in time. According to the National Medicines Information Centre (NMIC), "there is a perception that natural equals safe. This is not necessarily true". It also says there is a perception that more adverse reactions occur with conventional medicines. The NMIC says there is a need for better quality control and labelling of alternative products as well as the type of clinical trials on these products that conventional medicines must undergo. People can also suffer a bad reaction to drugs because they take them with alcohol or certain foods, despite being advised not to. Other problems occur because they imagine the side effects, having read all about them on the drug information leaflet first. Or the person may simply take too many drugs. Having to take a series of drugs in a complicated dose programme is hard, especially for older people and some drugs have similar names adding to the confusion. Of course, some people will not take the drugs because of the taste or smell and end up in hospital again. Drugs help thousands to live better lives and save people from death. It is important that the public can have confidence in a good, independent regulatory system to ensure that all products for human use are safe. In truth, the requirements in place which must be met before a medicine can be put on sale are tough. The trouble is that the clinical trials for a drug may involve several thousands of people, but only when it is used in different countries by hundreds of thousands of patients that a better picture of its profile emerges. For its part, the public should also treat medicines with respect and use them only as directed. Most drugs remain on the market after launch, only a small number of high-profile withdrawals occur. But when deaths result, the reasons must be investigated thoroughly and the public needs to be reassured. * Fergal Bowers is editor of the health website, irishhealth.com 
