drugs
{  
    January 31 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/one-for-the-road-make-mine-a-pill--26022527.html }
Responsible drivers know not to drink and drive but there's a new scourge on our roads, reports  JOHN MEAGHER It is being described as the hidden killer, a rarely talked about phenomenon that claims up to 100 lives every year. It is driving under the influence - but not as we typically know it. Alcohol is the well-documented contributory factor in many road fatalities, but new research shows that drugs could be responsible for almost 25pc of the annual carnage. This week, figures for the UK showed that drugged-up drivers were responsible for one in five fatal crashes. Statistics for Northern Ireland are even more sobering. A quarter of all drivers and motorbike riders killed on the North's roads last year were positive when tested for drugs. Campaigners in the Republic say there is no reason to assume Irish statistics are different, and it is widely thought that as many as four in every 10 fatal road collisions may have been caused by drivers under the influence of drugs. The alarming number of drug-taking motorists was highlighted in 2002, with 37pc of drivers testing positive, according to a study undertaken by the Medical Bureau of Road Safety which analysed 2,000 blood and urine samples. An earlier investigation by the bureau found that many of the drivers were below the legal limit for alcohol but had taken drugs such as cannabis or prescribed tranquillisers. "Even with relatively low doses of cannabis and alcohol, drivers are still at danger of veering across the road and causing a fatal accident," according to the report. The main findings of the tests showed the drivers tried to compensate for their impairment by driving more slowly. Drugs such as cannabis also adversely affected a driver's ability to stay in lane on a bend and that the combined effects of the drink and drugs was greater than with cannabis alone. Other drugs detected were methadone, cocaine, opiates, and amphetamines. The consumption of ecstasy before driving is a particular cause of concern among road safety experts, who say there is a worrying culture of clubbers who don't take alcohol on a night out but feel they can drive home despite consuming ecstasy. "The issue of drugs and driving is a major area where research is required," says the Automobile Association's Conor Faughnan. "We know nothing about the effects of a whole range of drugs, legal and illegal. I don't think there is any point in safety campaigns before we have the research. I would imagine that marijuana in the blood stream would impair someone's ability to drive a car, but the fact is we just don't know. There has been a raft of research on how the mobile phone impairs driving ability, but very little on what drugs do." Prescription drugs, especially if mixed with alcohol, can cause drowsiness. There have been calls for a 'traffic light' warning system on all over-the-counter drugs. Drugs marked green would be okay to drive; amber for drugs that cause minor effects and which may make it advisable not to drive; and red on drugs likely to produce severe adverse effects. But such a labelling system is a long way off yet. The impact on certain prescription drugs was illustrated by the University of Dundee in Scotland, where research showed that if people taking tranquillisers did not drive there would be 110 fewer deaths in the UK and 1,600 fewer accidents. Prof Denis Cusack of the Medical Bureau of Road Safety says it is difficult for the gardai to operate detection because, unlike alcohol, there are no limits set. "It's not so much the presence of the drug as how much it impairs driving and how it affects behaviour. One of the areas we will have to look at is how doctors assess drivers for safety when they are on medication, and how much medication could impair a driver." Gardai say there is provision for a garda who suspects a driver of intoxicated driving, to call in a doctor to test for drugs. But they admit that, in practice, this does not happen. "Most people feel they can get away with taking drugs," says one garda, "because guards only check for people being over the alcohol limit. They may have felt drowsy when driving, but if they are pulled over they can perk up very quickly." John, a 28-year-old occasional cannabis user, says he often drives after smoking a couple of joints. "I know cannabis makes me feel a bit drowsy, but I always think I'm okay to drive," he says. "I'd never drive after having more than a pint of beer, even though I'm probably under the alcohol limit. Like other people, I'm very aware of the dangers of driving after drinking but I never really give drugs a second thought. I remember being on strong antibiotics and driving to Cork and never really feeling I was in danger. I don't recall any drug-driving campaigns and I don't know if gardai can actually test to see if a driver has drugs in their bloodstream." At the moment, the gardai don't have a portable device to do for drugs what the breathalyser has done for alcohol. But that may change. At the moment, police forces in Australia and Italy are conducting trials on a British hand-held product, the Cozart Rapiscan. "We have received a very positive reaction from police officers who have seen the device in action," says Cozart director Norman Brennan. Gertie Shiels, the founder of Mothers Against Drink Drivers, believes action is needed urgently to tackle the growing problem of drug-driving. "The Government are quite rightly more than happy to criminalise those who break the speed limit, so why can't they do the same with drug drivers? It is especially worrying considering the general increase in drug use in society." According to the most recent National Health and Lifestyle Survey, published last April, 12pc of men and 7pc of women smoked cannabis within the past 12 months. Among schoolchildren, usage was almost as common, with 11pc reporting taking the drug at least once over the same time period. The figures for cocaine are also a cause for concern for drugs campaigners. A National Advisory Committee on Drugs found in a 1998 survey that 1.8pc of men said they had tried cocaine; while four years later this figure had nearly doubled, to 3pc. 
