drugs
{  
    March 04 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/was-gaybo-right-to-call-for-drugs-debate-26285254.html }
Sir - Thank you Mr Gay Byrne for your position on the legalising of drugs (SI, 2/25/2007). Permit me to suggest to Mr Noel Ahern that it is not acting irresponsibly to call for a debate across this nation on the present state of the war on drugs in Ireland. It is intellectually correct to follow such a course. Let me suggest to the Minister that the Irish Government and the Irish people must first recognise that drug use and drug abuse is a medical and social problem and that users should be treated with medical and social solutions and not as criminals to be incarcerated. The Irish Government is, with its present drug policies, contributing to the increase in crime, wasting taxpayers' money and doing irreparable harm to Irish families. Let us learn from the American total failure on its war on drugs. Most of the American politicians and much of the American public during the past 40 years believed they could 'incarcerate' their way out of the drug problem. Many politicians followed this course in order to appear tough on crime. I request that the Minister hold a public forum on this issue and let both sides educate each other and the public. Vincent J Lavery, Glasthule, Co Dublin Sir - The call by some people for the resignation of Gay Byrne from the RSA is ludicrous. The legalising or not of certain drugs would have no effect regarding an individual's personal attitude towards road safety. If that was the case, the most insidious drug of them all, namely alcohol, would have been banned after the introduction of the first internal combustion engine. The blame for the appalling road carnage rests with the attitude of society! Keith Nolan, Carrick-on-Shannon, Co Leitrim Sir - 'Legalise drugs'! What an astonishing suggestion from Gay Byrne. Gaybo harmlessly proclaims he was "a drugs innocent who had never smoked a joint". The majority of us might say the same but we would have read enough about them and seen the ravages of drug addiction, broken homes, violence, pain, suffering and even death. New research has shown cannabis - one of the safer drugs - as well as causing confusion, depression and schizophrenia is also addictive, affects fertility and increases the risk of heart disease and lung cancer. Only recently the government of Northern Ireland invested anadditional £5.5m to fight a significant increase in drug induced rapes, a serious problem there over the past year. There are an estimated 15,000 drug addicts in the country. There is now new evidence that drug users are responsible for several fatal road accidents. For Gay Byrne to say jokingly "cigarettes and alcohol has not resulted in any murders" is a silly misleading lie. Alcohol has been a contributing factor to many murders and unnecessary death. James A Gleeson Thurles, Co Tipperary Sir - Gay Byrne recently suggested that drugs should be legalised as this would bring about the demise of the drug criminality culture. A lot of police and other resources are invested in resolving this problem. At a conservative estimate approximately 10 per cent of drugs are seized by police and customs officials. The remaining 90 per cent are successfully distributed by the drug barons. The misery caused to society as a whole remains fairly much untackled. I would suggest, however, that a move towards legalisation should only occur within an international political framework. Should all the developed countries initially agree a strategy I believe that the whiff of sulphur currently associated with drug abuse would be considerably modified. It would be easier to then contain the effect of the remaining drug users through a more effective targeted drug addiction programme. Having control on a political level would of course mean that less crime (petty and major) would ensue. Police resources worldwide could then be deployed into areas like people trafficking and community crime preventative measures. Sean Brophy, Leopardstown, D18 Sir - Has Gay Byrne lost his marbles? Does he realise the damage he is doing by advocating the legalisation of drugs? Does he know how much damage our legal drugs, like alcohol, are doing to society? Gay Byrne answers: I'm fully aware of the damage all drugs, including excessive consumption of alcohol, do. What I said was, we've tried to solve the drug problem in Ireland in a certain way for 40 years. Clearly it hasn't worked. Therefore what I suggested was that we start considering a different approach. 
