drugs
{  
    August 27 2012 11:29 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/fingalindependent/news/horror-of-drug-abuse-27818614.html }
PATRICK Bentley is a survivor. He is many things but survival is the word that defines the extraordinary life of the Skerries author who has just published his second book, a novel called Dark Line, which warns of the dangers of a life in drugs while telling a gripping tale at the same time. ' Abused as a child, locked up in reform schools and prison, the Skerries man turned to drugs for salvation before finding God, losing him, finding Him again and then putting it all down on paper so that others might avoid the cul-de-sacs his extraordinary life led him down from time to time. Much of that story was told in Patrick's first book, an autobiography called ' The Jagged Halo' and now he has turned his attention to his first novel. He sat down with Fingal Independent reporter, John Manning, to talk about the new book and the life that inspired it. What was your motivation for writing your new book, Dark Line? ' The idea for the book came about when a lot of mothers and fathers who are concerned about their kids growing up and surrounded by the drug culture who had read Jagged Halo and felt that I should have emphasised a little more the dangers of drugs. 'It was something I had in mind anyway. As I wrote the last chapter of Jagged Halo, I thought I wanted to have a go at a full-blown novel that would really attack the dangers of the drug culture for young people. 'It was supposed to be called the Dark Side of the White Line but I cut it down to Dark Line. Basically, the aim was instead of just going on about the dangers of drugs, I wanted to get people interested and I wanted to get young people to read the book so there is a love interest in the story that will hopefully captivate young people, and particularly young girls because there are an awful lot of girls getting wrapped up in the drug culture now.' Lisa is the central character of the book, tell us about her. 'She is a Celtic Tiger cub. She's on Facebook and has a group of girlfriends she goes out with and they are all taking cocaine and ecstasy on a regular basis. ' The story goes on until she gets a really bad fright one night and has a night of hallucinations and she begins to think of drugs as something dark and ugly and very, very dangerous while her friends don't and continue to take drugs. 'She stops using and there is a split which takes her down a road where she is isolated and on her own completely.' ' There's a spiritual element to the book too. I think in Ireland with the scandals in the Catholic Church and all the negativity around, people are getting turned away from spirituality and everything that is positive in that. 'I thought it was important to bring in a spiritual aspect into a book but it is done in a strange and mysterious way and readers won't know until the final chapter what it is all about. Why is it important to raise the issues in the book like drug abuse now? ' These issues are too important to sit around for years while young people get drawn deeper and deeper into the world of drugs.' 'I would just like to reach the younger generation. The Celtic Tiger generation grew up with ecstasy and cocaine and it's their kids I am worried about. 'If this helps a few young people stop and think about how evil the nature of drugs is and where it will all lead to, mentally, physically, emotionally and spiritually, then I will be happy. 'I've been five years clean. The last time I took drugs, it nearly killed me, I almost died. It was cocaine. That was it for me, I turned away. 'I bottomed out that night, I had so many problems that just came to a head and I just took too much cocaine and had a terrible experience for two hours and almost died. 'My wife was with me. She was my girlfriend at the time – we're married now. It was the most frightening experience of my life. I heard voices telling me I was going to die and I saw things coming into the room and trying to attack me – it was terrifying. 'I felt I was floating away towards death and God reached in and pulled me out. I was on the brink of death and I was pulled back. Cocaine is the worst because you just keep taking it. It is an evil drug. ' The Phoenix Park was a big reminder and a warning. Young people just don't see any boundaries and keep going and going. ' This book also attacks people who deal drugs and has a very nasty look at those people. It takes a look at gangs, fictional of course, and how they just don't care about anyone and how they are in it just to make money. 'I think people take drugs but they don't think about the innocent lives they may be affecting who are attacked by these criminal drugs. People have been attacked and murdered over drugs.' Were the events in your early life, being abused by Christian Brothers at a reform school in Finglas, a trigger for your later abuse of drugs? 'I ended up in a reform school called St. Lawrence's in Finglas. It was a school for young offenders. The Christian brothers were abusing kids there and myself and my younger brother were victims of that as were a lot of other boys. I was nine. 'But I was abused sexually even before I went in there. A gang attacked us locally. I never wrote about it but we were attacked by a gang who made us do stuff so the sexual abuse was there before I went to St. Lawrence's but because it was people in authority this time who you were supposed to trust, it made an even deeper scar. 'In the earlier attack, it was a gang of young lads who attacked me and another young lad. I was about six or seven, and that was in Skerries. I didn't write about it in Jagged Halo, I didn't want to open that can of worms.' All of that led to a life of petty crime initially? 'I was a petty thief. We came from a very unstable home. Our dad drank a lot and we went to school and were beaten up by teachers so we went off the rails a bit, myself and my brother. 'We started stealing things, mostly food because we were starving. We would rob packs of biscuits and would take money from the church sometimes. Sounds petty now but it was viewed as much more serious then.' 'I got locked up for 12 months in St. Pat's for stealing a pair of jeans off someone's line and a bicycle wheel. I got sent to St. Pat's and ended up in there with hard-core criminals.' 'I got away from it all and away from crime after St. Pat's. I was sick of it all. I started picking winkles, started saving and started looking for love and for a soulmate and that's what part of the book is about.' You left drugs and crime behind you for a long time but then it all caught up with you again around 1995? 'I lost my father and mother within six months and that was the straw that broke that camel's back. I ricocheted out of control completely from 1995 until 2007, until I had that near death experience. 'I got counselling in 2007 after that and began to resolve a lot of issues. I discovered my identity and I moved on.' Meeting your now wife, Sharon, helped a lot too? 'Sharon is the inspiration behind these books. When she met me I was probably at my worst. My first marriage had fallen apart and I was involved in drugs at the time and I was trying to keep it all together. I don't know how we survived it all but somehow we did.' Your life has been punctuated by a search for a relationship with God which you had, then lost, then found again? 'I was always interested in the after life and how can you know where you are going after death. I was never into organised religion but it never put me off having a personal relationship with God and I met a few evangelical Christians who explained to me the relationship I could have. I started to do bible studies in 1991. ' Something happened to me that night (the night of the first bible meeting). I asked Christ into my life. I felt like I had been hit by a bolt of lightning in the back of the head. I experienced God's love for the first time if you want it to put it that way.' But after losing his parents, his faith wavered and Patrick said: ' I lost contact with God – that relationship was gone. I went back to drink and drugs but it was all so hollow. I was trying to fill a hole in my life, it was horrible.' Now, he says, ' the truth of the existence of God came back to haunt me and I have returned to him like the prodigal son'. So if there is somebody out there about to take their fist ecstasy tablet or their first line of cocaine, what would you say to them? 'I would say they are paying to escape. You're paying money to escape but instead you need to find out what it is you are trying to escape from and if you find that out you won't have to pay to escape. 'Drugs are evil and I do believe in evil. I talked to a woman recently whose son was murdered in a gangland crime – beaten to death and tortured. And we talked about the evil behind drugs that people don't realise. ' The more you get into it and steep yourself in it it erodes the person and destroys the person. I think if people realised some of the evil behind drugs they would think twice about doing it.' Could you ever see yourself using drugs again? 'Absolutely no way – it's gone. I hate drugs. I hate what they did to me and I hate what they are doing to young people now.' Patrick's new book, Dark Line is out now and available from a range of local stockists across Fingal. For more details check out Patrick's Facebook page. 
