drugs
{  
    July 17 1998 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/shooting-up-in-rural-ireland-26180849.html }
Dublin's pernicious heroin problem has seeped beyond the capital into idyllic rural Ireland. An anti-drugs group recently revealed that it has received appeals for help from provincial towns suffering the consequences of a concerted drive against pushers in Dublin, while a Home Office report in Britain has shown that the drug problem in rural areas there is as bad, if not worse, than in the cities. Reports by Gemma O'Doherty, Brian McDonald and Ralph Riegel As the battle against Dublin's chronic heroin problem continues in earnest, there is growing evidence that drug dealers are targeting untapped markets beyond the capital in some of the most isolated parts of the country. Healthcare professionals working in the field of drug addiction are concerned that increasing numbers of young people in rural towns are turning to heroin either because they have tired of cannabis or because they are using the drug to `bring them down' after an ecstasy trip. While the latter two drugs are now believed to be widely available in every town in the country, at a time when heroin is believed to be cheaper, purer and in greater supply than it has ever been, there are fears that rural communities, ill-equipped to deal with drug abuse, may be falling prey to the scourge which has ripped so many urban ones apart. While there is little statistical evidence to measure the extent of hard drug supply in rural areas and while the Garda National Drugs Unit has no concrete proof that there is any increase, coastal regions and towns with large concentrations of young people are the most likely targets. The number of heroin addicts in parts of Wicklow has trebled in the last two years. Earlier this week, a 23-year-old drug dealer from Athlone, himself supporting a £400-a-week drug habit, told a court that he could have made as much as £1,500 a week selling heroin. There is also evidence that the drug is widely available in West Cork, Ennis, Letterkenny, Waterford and Carrickmacross. The success of Operation Dochas, which has increased the garda presence on the streets of the capital, and the fact that many Dublin dealers are being driven out of their traditional trading bases by local anti-drugs activists, are among the reasons why the geography of hard drug abuse may be changing. Small-time individual dealers filling the void left by the break-up of the country's major drug gang in the aftermath of the murder of journalist Veronica Guerin are thought to be focussing on smaller towns where there is less surveillance of their activities and where potential victims may be less aware of the dangers of drugs. The severe lack of facilities for young people in rural parts of the country, which has been partly blamed for the soaring levels of underage alcohol abuse, is another factor believed to contribute to their increasing interest in illegal drugs. While their city counterparts have the option of a visit to the local omniplex or bowling alley, with more time on their hands and a greater willingness to experiment brought on by boredom, rural youngsters are prime targets for drug dealers wishing to expand their trade beyond the capital. ``What we are noticing is a trend in the number of young people from outside Dublin who are coming to us at a point where heroin is starting to be a problem for them,'' says Dr Maire Russell, director of the Rutland Centre, Dublin's leading drug addiction treatment centre. ``Previously, they may have been taking ecstasy or cannabis and we would not have come into contact with them, but because of the nature of heroin addiction, they are quickly slipping into crime. At that point they are presenting to us. It is becoming clear that heroin is no longer just available in Dublin's inner city. It is touching all parts of the country and spreads right across the board in terms of class.'' Dr Russell's claims are supported by medical staff in drug abuse treatment centres outside the capital. Jim Donnan, an addiction counsellor based in Limerick, is convinced that growing numbers of young people in rural parts of the country are experimenting with heroin which is being supplied to them by organised sources. ``It isn't widely available on the streets of smaller towns but it is available on demand. You have to be in the know, but if you want it, you can get it without a shadow of a doubt. It used to be the case that people from rural areas were going to Dublin, getting it and coming back but in the last six months it seems that small markets are developing which provide a more regular supply.'' New research in Britain, where drug usage patterns tend to reflect similarities to our own, does not augur well for this country. A Home Office report published last week revealed that drug abuse in rural parts of the UK is as bad if not worse as it is in the cities. One of the most disturbing trends related to an `enormous' rise in heroin abuse in rural areas. Moreover, it showed that middle class children from stable backgrounds are the ones who are most at risk. An anti-drugs strategy to highlight and tackle the rapidly growing problem use of drugs in the countryside has been launched. Meanwhile, as the economy continues to boom here, there are those in Dublin's inner city who believe that the country's new-found prosperity may be another factor adding to the increased dependency on hard drugs. ``The flaunted wealth of the Celtic Tiger is making the most socially excluded feel increasingly frustrated and that might explain why they are turning to drugs,'' argues Seanie Lambe, board member of the Dublin Citywide Drugs Crisis Campaign.  ``Any town that attracts young people will attract heroin. All you need is a couple of people to get a market started. Once it gets a grip on a few, it can spread like wildfire.'' 
