drugs
{ Celine McGillycuddy 
    February 05 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/too-many-kids-are-hooked-on-heroin-26408176.html }
AS KATE Moss returned to London last week to be questioned under caution about her alleged cocaine use, her ex-lover, Pete Doherty had just been remanded in custody by a London court after pleading guilty to possession of heroin. Meanwhile, in Glasgow, an 11-year-old girl was recovering in hospital having collapsed in school due to smoking heroin. Doherty once said, "I had a romantic vision of taking opium. I didn't think of it as smack." As authorities try to get to the root of how an 11-year-old found herself addicted to heroin, I wonder if our 'Class A' celebrities have even heard of this very unromantic horror. A grim reality has emerged where children can now access hard drugs such as cocaine and heroin with relative ease. A 15-year-old girl from a rural community told me that she would have "no problem" getting hash, E or LSD. When I asked her about heroin and cocaine she said, "I don't do them but I know who does and who sells it". Some of her friends were "doing coke" she said but in her opinion heroin was too dangerous. The young girl clearly thought coke was acceptable and was very open to trying it but said that heroin was "for junkies". Is coke dangerous, I ask her, and she explains to me with remarkable insight that all drugs are dangerous - even smoking hash - but that heroin is the "worst one". Asked how she would pay for the drugs she said "they're not that dear" and that her friends would "chip in" or they might "halve an E". For young people, money is not a major issue in the attainment of drugs and this was also the case in Glasgow. According to reports the 11-year-old girl admitted buying £10 bags of heroin from a female dealer at a city shopping centre. When the young girl "fell asleep" in the school classroom, teachers thought it was due to fatigue. They alerted authorities when they realised that she may have inadvertently taken drugs. It was only when doctors resuscitated her that she told them she had been "chasing the dragon" (burning heroin on aluminium foil and inhaling the vapour) for the past two months. Professor Neil McKeganey has conducted research in Glasgow which suggests that heroin use is no longer confined to children in their mid to late teens. "We are seeing a situation now where heroin is also present in the world of pre-teen children. That has to be very worrying," he said. According to Stewart Stevenson, the Scottish National Party's deputy justice spokesman, the case of the 11-year-old girl is not an isolated one. He said that unfortunately the young girl is far from alone and that there are several dozen identified heroin addicts at primary school age in Glasgow. Eamon, 23, lives in Dublin and lost a good friend to heroin four years ago. He said that people should not assume that all young people who get mixed up in heroin come from poor or dysfunctional homes. His friend, who started smoking heroin at 16 came from a middle-class family, was good at school and was a great football player. "Heroin robbed his soul," he says. Together the boys had tried "loads of drugs" but Eamon's friend went that step too far and began injecting heroin, which quickly led to his death. "Some dealers are junkies themselves and they couldn't care less if they're selling to a kid, they just want the money and they usually have bad s**t". It's a tragic cliche, Eamon says, but his friend died of an overdose in a derelict building, on his own. He says that drugs are cheap and that if you have a part-time job or even a baby-sitting gig, it would be fairly easy to have a weekly habit of smoking or taking E. "Once you start doing drugs you think it's fairly easy to handle and that you're in control but all of a sudden you're not." Paul Gilligan, chief executive of the ISPCC, told me that some Irish 14-year-olds are already taking heroin and that children as young as 12 are smoking cannabis. According to Mr Gilligan, these children come from all ends of the social spectrum and no parent should assume that they don't need to be concerned. He said we live in an affluent culture of supply and demand and that more money in kids' pockets equals more choice. Harder drugs have therefore become more accessible to younger children. Where once alcohol was the drug of choice for young people, now smoking hash is just as easy an option. Although young children taking heroin are a minority, he said that if things don't change this could become an even more sinister affair. A lot is happening in terms of support and prevention he said, but there needs to be a comprehensive reassessment of the focus of programmes nationwide. One parent told me that she has four children but it is her youngest, 12-year-old daughter she worries about most. Already, she has moved her daughter from a school in Dublin where drugs were being passed around the playground. She said it was a sad thing that parents are now worrying about children using drugs at primary school level. "In this day and age you're not worrying about your child smoking a cigarette, you're worrying about them smoking hash or getting in with the wrong gang because that's all it takes for them to start." This was echoed by Aoife Griffin, who works on the ISPCC's "4Me" child-mentoring project in Limerick. She said some children "just get in with the wrong crowd" and that from there on, they are easily influenced. She tells me the story of a 16-year-old girl who came to her worried because she had taken heroin. The young girl was told by others in her gang that the white powder, which they took orally, was heroin. It later emerged that the substance was not heroin but was most likely to have been an amphetamine of some type as the girl had experienced "a rush to the head". Ms Griffin said the worrying thing was that the 16-year-old was perfectly willing to take heroin or any other substance in the company of her peers who were also doing it. One teenager reported paying ?25 for cocaine. Hash, she said is "massive" amongst the younger teenagers who choose to smoke in their own gangs and this is the main drug young people admitted to using. Often, she said, a kid who has the money will buy hash from a dealer and then sell it to their mates meaning that, worryingly, young people are essentially becoming dealers very early on in life. Ms Griffin also added that she was very concerned about kids abusing solvents and said that this was something she was encountering with early teens. Sniffing is a hidden issue overshadowed by underage drinking, illegal drugs and smoking but Ms Griffin says children are experimenting with solvents because they're easily accessible. What will become of this decade for young people remains to be seen, retrospectively the Nineties did not bode well. In Europe, adolescent drug misuse doubled during the Nineties and Ireland had one of the highest rates. The European Addiction Research Journal has shown that in the Nineties Ireland's addicts were the youngest in Europe. The report, carried out by Dr Bobby Smyth and Mary O'Brien of the Health Research Board (HRB), showed that between 1990 and 1999 nearly 2,000 children received addiction treatment with an average of 11 children per month presenting for treatment of heroin misuse between 1994 and 1999. Dr Smyth, a child psychiatrist at the Drug Treatment Centre Board in Trinity Court, was shocked by the results. "I was very surprised children accounted for such a high proportion of drug users in Dublin. In the Eighties, heroin had a very bad name because it was mainly injected. But in the Nineties, children started to smoke it as it seemed a much more appealing method," he said. In recent years, Dublin has seen a decline in the number of adolescents reporting heroin usage but according to Dr Smyth, outside the Dublin area the heroin problem is still rife and "people have their head in the sand about this issue". He has dealt with heroin addicts as young as 15 who reported trying the drug for the first time at an even younger age. He said there has been a notable shift from the stereotypical "user" of the Nineties who came from a socio-economically deprived area. Young people from all types of backgrounds now "drift into using heroin". Disturbingly, the number of young girls reporting heroin usage has increased dramatically with 17 of the 19 teenagers attending the Drug Treatment Centre over the past year being female. Most girls were in a relationship with a heroin user who was likely to be older than her and responsible for her initiation into drug use. Cocaine usage amongst young people, he said, will become a more significant problem in the future. He said contemporary role models were sending mixed messages to young people. "Colombiancocaine dealers must be delighted that Kate Moss has been endorsing their product and that the media have singled her out for this". "Kids can get a bag of heroin now for ?10 or ?15 or they'll divide the cost of cocaine at ?40. When I was doing heroin a bag cost as much as 40 punts," said Julie O'Toole. Julie started using heroin in her mid-teens and her book Heroin: A True Story of Drug Addiction, Hope and Triumph chronicles her own harrowing story of addiction, degradation and despair. The author hit her lowest point when her sister found her lying on the street in a coma, having been abandoned and left for dead by the group she was with. The effects of heroin on a young child's body are devastating, she said. "I was only a child, my period stopped, my mind was ripped apart by drugs. I stopped growing and I stopped developing emotionally, I stopped crying and I was hollow." Julie now works as a counsellor for Victory Outreach, a drug treatment centre in Dublin run by former users for current users. She tells me that it is depressing to see the children coming through her doors. "They're definitely getting younger, the drugs are cheaper and there's are more dealers than ever before." Cocaine seizures in Ireland have increased dramatically, from 6kg in 2001 to 17kg in 2003 and an estimated 300kg in 2005. The UN Office of Drugs and Crime (UNODC) World Drug Report 2005 placed Ireland in joint third place for cocaine use, out of 30 European countries. The smallest rural crossroads now have heroin and cocaine in plentiful supply said Julie and this is putting young people at risk as the street price continues to be driven down. Julie O'Toole thanks the support of Victory Outreach for her triumph over heroin. Most notably, in her book, she has been critical of many Irish support services for approaching her in a cold, medicinal fashion. Today, she visits schools as much as possible to tell her story. Her message is delivered most effectively when she shows young people pictures of the effects heroin had on her body. She says: "Serious drug abuse by children is rarely about having a drug problem, it is most probably a symptom that something is going badly in their lives. That little11-year-old girl, that little baby, doesn't need doctors. She needs lots of love." 
