drugs
{  
    September 04 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/anti-drugs-committee-27449062.html }
In response to the editorial An Angry People in last weeks edition, the Nenagh Anti-Drugs Committee, about whose activities, questions were asked in the editorial, has made a lengthy reply, outlining the reasons behind its formation, and spelling out the drug In response to the editorial “An Angry People” in last week’s edition, the Nenagh Anti-Drugs Committee, about whose activities, questions were asked in the editorial, has made a lengthy reply, outlining the reasons behind its formation, and spelling out the drugs situation in Nenagh as it sees it. “Our committee was formed out of pure frustration by the perceived lack of response from those in authority to the growing drug problem that had developed in Nenagh. The people were crying out for something to be done but were only met with a stony silence, followed by a denial that Nenagh had a drug and anti-social problem and that there certainly were no areas in Nenagh where people felt unsafe to walk at night. “Our question to Superintendent Fitzgerald is this: Is he prepared to stand behind those sentiments, given the dramatic rise in both drug dealing and anti-social behaviour that blights our town especially at weekends?  AWARENESS “Our committee was formed to bring awareness to parents and develop some strategy, such as a public forum with input from everyone, including Gardai, UDC, Chamber of Commerce, voluntary bodies, sporting clubs, etc. Our intentions were honourable, positive and forward looking. What we were met with was indifference and scepticism from the Gardai and other public bodies, and even 
The Guardian we feel misrepresented the ideals of our committee at the time. “When we finally got to meet and make our presentation to the UDC, great hope came out of it. After months of waiting, a Public Order Committee was formed under the direction of the UDC with the then chairman, Cllr. Tom Ryan chairing the meetings. “Unfortunately, only two meetings were held and nothing more came of it. “We now call on the new Mayor, Cllr. Tom Moylan, to re-start the Public Order committee and infuse more enthusiasm and vigour so we can start to address some of the problems that beset our town. It must be pointed out that our committee never intended, or pretended to have a solution to the growing problems but we firmly believed then, as we do now, that it is a community problem, one that can only be solved by the community coming together with the help of the Gardai and other bodies. “No one alone; not our committee, Gardai, or anyone else can solve it, but by working together maybe we can.  GARDAI KNOW “Now, in answer to the question about informing the Gardai on known criminal activity, and supplying them with information, our response is as follows: If 90% of teenagers know where to buy drugs in Nenagh, as a survey some time ago showed, surely the Gardai know. As far as we are aware, there is a sizeable amount of people, including ourselves, who know the main culprits of drug pushing and anti-social behaviour, surely the Gardai know. “The people ask: What is being done about it? It’s not good enough to say that evidence is needed, in order to calm the anger that is mounting amongst the decent people of the town. “As the editorial pointed out, known persistent law breakers are walking about without fear and oblivious of the bad feeling generated from the law-abiding citizens of Nenagh. The people are angry and are crying out for some form of response from the authorities, but all seems in vain and meantime the problems just get worse.  EXASPERATION “Many parents have phoned or approached members of our committee to inform them of drug dealing in their area. On every occasion we have told the caller to inform the Gardai immediately. The response to this request is one of exasperation. They repeatedly tell me that the Gardai don’t seem to care and they have informed us that they have previously called the Gardai, but got no positive response to their call. “There is a serious lack of confidence in the Gardai's perceived determination to tackle the drug and anti-social problem at the moment. That’s not coming from us. Just ask the ordinary people on the street how they feel about the Garda's attempts to rid the streets of drugs and there you will find the true answer. It is not up to the Anti-Drug Committee to solve the problem. We would ask the Superintendent if the drug and anti-social problem has been de-prioritised as crime is rising but convictions are almost non-existent. Those who are convicted and given curfews are treating it as a joke. These individuals can be seen roaming the streets long after curfew time but never seem to be arrested for breach of the curfew. Why not? “The judiciary must also take some blame. How many times have we seen repeat offenders go before the courts and get off with probation or a fine only to go back on to the streets and continue to strike fear among the people again. We call for stiffer sentencing or imprisonment for these offenders in order to make a start on making Nenagh a safer place.  SILVER STREET “Silver Street as we know, is a noble street with a proud tradition. Unfortunately, now it is talked about in a different vein. This we must point out is in no way a reflection on the residents and business people in the street. When you hear first hand from people living in Knockanpierce that they have stopped going to Saturday evening Mass because of the fear of going down the street at night, then we must ask ourselves, as a society, what is happening to our town? This, we must emphasise again is not scaremongering, but fact. Again, just ask the people. “As you are probably aware, there have been two very serious assaults on two hard working men recently. Both men were nearly kicked to death. The superintendent in 
The Guardian interview, said that the law must take its course, but our contention is that: if the law had taken its course in the first place, these assaults would not have happened. Sadly, we feel that the superintendent has let the families of these men and the people of Nenagh down by flippantly saying that the assaults were drink related and calling for no retaliation. This we feel is an attempt to deflect the real issue and not focus on the real problem.  RESTORE CONFIDENCE “We say to the superintendent, do your job, and show the people of Nenagh that it’s not okay to push drugs and kick people almost to death without fear of conviction. Restore confidence in the Gardai by bringing the pushers to court and yes, let the law take its course, but do it now before we have deaths from drugs or beatings. “If we don’t stand up for the children, who will? How many families out there are suffering in silence as they watch their children getting caught up in the scourge of drugs and all that goes with it? Who do they turn to? Where is the government strategy? At least we on the Anti-Drug Committee started something. Let’s try to build on it. “Unfortunately, Nenagh Town Council must also take some blame for not taking serious enough the drug and anti-social issue in Nenagh. A headline on last week’s 
Guardian told us: ‘Council gets tough on illegal parking’. We now have two traffic wardens. The irony of it is that you will get a parking fine for staying over the allotted time on our parking card, but yet the drug pusher in the same car park can deal openly without fear of any fine. To put it into context, we have two full time traffic wardens and one part-time Garda drug officer. It seems to us that there is more emphasis on fining people for illegal parking then of pursuing the drug-pusher.  CALL ON COUNCIL “We call on the Town Council to get tough with the pushers. We restate the need to re-double their efforts to make Nenagh a safer place and friendly town by re-starting the Public Order Committee and hopefully together, we can make some inroads into addressing our problems. “Another problem that needs to be referred to is the worrying availability of prescription drugs on the streets of Nenagh. This cannot be overlooked and needs to be addressed as there are a number of teenagers spaced out on these drugs and where they are coming from needs to be investigated. “We end in the hope that this generates some response from the public. So if you are a parent or just concerned, and feel that you have something to add to the debate, please put pen to paper or contact any of the committee members and express your opinion whether you agree or disagree. But let’s keep the subject in the open. We owe it to our children, and the parents, and no one can just sit back and pretend it doesn’t exist. Are we just going to wait for deaths to finally wake up and admit that we have a drug and anti-social problem in Nenagh? If there is a sizable response, we hope to hold an open public meeting, so we can get some fresh ideas and new direction, if needs be and make a determined effort to address the problems on the streets of Nenagh. “Finally, just to show how serious we are of our concerns, a copy of this letter had been sent to the Minister for Justice” Signed: 
Mick Gilmartin, Liam Morrissey, Eddie Sheary, Seamie Morris, secretary, 
Robert Ashman, Matt O’Brien, Kevin Whelan, chairman, Nenagh Anti-Drug Committee. 
