drugs
{ SIMON BROUDER sbrouder@kerryman.ie 
    August 19 2009 08:22 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/kerryman/lifestyle/kerrys-deadly-drugs-spiral-27386281.html }
RECENT years have seen a huge and disturbing surge in the use of hard drugs across the county with more and more people becoming addicted to life destroying drugs like heroin and cocaine. While cannabis, ecstasy and cocaine remain the most common drugs found and used in the county, frequently associated with all manner of public order offences that come before the courts, it is the continuing growth in the heroin trade that is of the greatest concern. Five years ago the use of heroin in Kerry was restricted to a handful of addicts, the majority of whom had come into the county from elsewhere. In 2004 the gardaí acknowledged that there were between 10 and 20 addicts living in the county at any given time. These unfortunate cases were usually addicts from Britain or Ireland's major cities or in some cases Kerry people who had returned home after becoming addicted while abroad. Just five years later the number of heroin addicts in Kerry is now thought to be well over 100. Of more concern is the fact that the majority of these addicts are people from Kerry who had their first encounter with heroin in Kerry itself. Last week the director of Castleisland's Talbot Grove Addiction Centre Con Cremin said the centre is now encountering far more Kerry people seeking assistance. "In the last two or three years we've seen the problem spread to Kerry along the main arteries from Dublin and Limerick where there has been a significant heroin problem for years. Previously most of the addicts in Kerry came from outside the county or were Kerry people who had left the county and become involved with heroin elsewhere," he said. "Heroin is available in most towns now and recently there have been many more people coming to us for help from Kerry whose first experience with heroin was in Kerry," Mr Cremin said. The words of a self confessed heroin addict who recently spoke to The Kerryman support Con Cremin's view. The addict who spoke to this paper on condition of anonymity said there are now at least 100 heroin addicts in the Tralee area alone and addicts can buy the lethal drug freely in the county capital for as little as €50 a deal. He claims that heroin is available from three dealers in the town and securing a hit requires no more than a phone call. The increase in seizures of heroin in Kerry provides further evidence of how prevalent the drug is becoming around the county. In 2005 gardaí made one heroin seizure, a small amount for personal use that was taken from a known addict. Since then the size of the seizures in Kerry has grown yearly from a €4,000 record haul in May 2007 to a €10,000 haul this April. The evidence suggests that the increase in hard drug use in Kerry is being largely fuelled by criminal gangs in Cork and Limerick. The gangs under close scrutiny from law enforcement agencies in their home cities appear to be spreading their business into surrounding counties in a bid to win new business and avoid the attention of gardaí. Several of the larger heroin hauls in Kerry in recent years have been made in conjunction with Gardaí from Limerick and Cork's divisional drug units. Recent court cases have shown that these gangs are using debt ridden Kerry addicts to smuggle the drugs into the county, store them and sell them on. One recent case, that of Killarney based Cocaine dealer Robert Morley, heard that he had been forced into the drugs trade after he became heavily indebted to a Cork based drug gang. Morley, who was sentenced to seven years for possession of over €86,000 worth of cocaine in Killarney in 2007, told gardaí the gang had threatened to murder his infant son if he didn't agree to work for them to pay off a sizeable drug debt. The case included evidence of just how lucrative the drug trade in Kerry has become with the court hearing that Morley was ordered to ferry vast amounts of cash, €70,000 to €90,000 a week, between Killarney, Cork and Dublin. The court heard that the drug gangs habitually target indebted addicts who they force to store, smuggle and supply drugs in order to pay off their debts. According to gardaí the gangs use such methods so they can keep their distance from the local trade and avoid prosecution. Of course evidence of the hard drug abuse is not just coming before the courts in cases involving major players in the Kerry drug trade. Every week in the county's District Courts, which deal with more minor infractions, evidence is heard from addicts who blame their crimes on addiction to drugs ranging from ecstasy, to cocaine and heroin. While the mention of cocaine or heroin in court a few short years ago would have shocked many observers in the chamber it is now a tragic, daily fact of life in our courts. Many of these crimes are simple thefts and burglaries carried out by addicts desperate to feed their habits. Drug dealers are not immune to recession and as the economy worsens debts are being called in by the Limerick and Cork drug lords. Cash-strapped addicts are being forced to rob and steal to come up with cash to cover drug debts. This has manifested itself in a recent sharp rise in robberies and break-ins mainly concentrated around Tralee. Another worrying recent development came just this month when the first ever case came before Kerry's courts for possession of crystal meth. The defendant, a 40-year-old Czech mother, is charged with possession of 183 separate deals of the drug for sale or supply in Tralee. Crystal meth is one of several street names used for home-made methamphetamine. Also known as 'poor man's cocaine', 'ice' or 'crank', it can be made easily in home laboratories with relatively inexpensive over-thecounter ingredients including cough medication and lithium from batteries and is highly addictive with severe side effects. Though cheap, the manufacturing process can be highly dangerous as the chemicals required are highly flammable and in some cases explosive. Crystal meth produces effects like euphoria and stimulation that are much like cocaine, except the effects last much longer leading to a hugely increased risk of mental illness. The drug has ravaged communities across the United States and has only recently become common in Ireland as money becomes increasing scarce. While all this sounds extremely negative it's important to recognise the successes of the Kerry drugs unit. The Kerry divisional drugs unit headquartered in Tralee have had a busy year with several high-profile drug seizures all over the county. The largest recent seizure came in July 2008 when gardaí, acting on intelligence, raided several properties in the Dingle area and seized over €850,000 worth of cannabis. The largest ever seizure of the drug in the county. Other large busts came in Tralee last October when gardaí recovered €170,000 worth of cocaine and cannabis, in Listowel in November when the search of a house in the town turned up €25,000 of cocaine and in Tralee last April when €10,000 of heroin was captured. 
