drugs
{ Willie Kealy 
    January 01 2017 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/twenty-years-on-its-more-clear-than-ever-veronica-died-in-vain-35333011.html }
All wars usually end in defeat for one side and victory for the other, and whatever disagreement started the war is sorted. The war on drugs is not like that. It has been going on for ages with no end in sight. Twenty years after the murder of Veronica Guerin, who campaigned courageously against the scourge of drug dealers in this country, we have made little if any progress in this battle. Worldwide, the picture is no better. The war against drugs today is a world war stretching from Afghanistan to Columbia and all points in between. The problem of drug abuse comes from the naivety of young people and the greed and ruthlessness of their elders. So you are trying to battle what are essentially elements of human nature. And you cannot change human nature. But the fight goes on. The outgoing Obama administration in the US favoured the idea that liberalising legal access to certain illegal drugs might help, on the not unreasonable grounds, given their history, that prohibition doesn't work. But you can only take that so far. Legalising cannabis - by far the most popular illegal drug - may disrupt that trade but cannabis abuse, like alcohol abuse, can lead to physical and mental problems - and making it socially acceptable cannot fix that. Very few would object to making cannabis available under license to those who have serious on-going medical problems that can be alleviated by the drug. But that is being abused by too many people, especially young people in the US where such licences are available, getting certification from doctors for difficult-to-diagnose conditions like "the bad back". Is any government really going to take it so far as to legalise cocaine or ecstasy (the drugs of choice for the nice middle class young and not so young) or heroin for recreational use so that injecting or smoking or snorting these powerful opiates will become "normal", no matter how compelling the argument for clean product and putting the pushers out of business may be? Donald Trump thinks he can keep drugs out of America by building a wall along the Mexican border. It is tempting to think like that. Could we keep our loved ones safe if we all built a wall around ourselves to cut off contact with the evils of the world? That's not the real world we live in. In this country we have to live in that same real world and accept that this involves our children and grandchildren being exposed to lethal temptations over which we have very little control, or even any real understanding of. There is much that parents can do, like keeping them occupied with sport and other healthy activities. Good example is important. Getting drunk in front of the kids on a regular basis suggests to them that some forms of drug taking are all right and they can then assume that it is just a matter of degree. Same goes for chain smoking that other legal drug - tobacco - which, we learned last week killed 5,900 people in Ireland in the past year and costs the State about €1.6m annually in treatment and other costs. Deaths related to illegal drugs, although far fewer, are more dramatically reported. At least the ones that amount to executions, like the 17 gangland-related murders or the murders of the accidental bystander or the mistaken identity victim in 2016. But they are just the visible end of the problem. The purveyors of illegal drugs have introduced a gun and gang culture here because their profits are just so huge that they will risk anything, including their own lives and liberty to protect them. But fatalities in their own feuds are few compared to casualties among their "customers". The latest figures from the Health Research Board (2014) suggest that Ireland has a drug death rate four times that of the EU average and we are only behind Estonia and Norway. The figures show that 70.5 drug abusers per million people annually die in this country from their habit. In the UK, the figure is just over half of that. A more recent qualitative survey by the National Advisory Committee on Drugs and Alcohol carried out in 2014/15 shows that the use of illegal drugs such as cannabis, ecstasy, cocaine and heroin have risen "significantly" since the previous survey in 2011.  So for us, as well as the rest of the world, the war against drugs goes on. And while example and education and compassion and treatment for addicts is important, there will always be what junior minister, Catherine Byrne, called "a continuing need for preventative measures". This means more and better policing and international co-operating and enabling the forces of law and order to compete with the resources of the international cartels. And that applies to the courts, too. One of the best deterrents ever introduced here was the mandatory minimum 10-year sentence for anyone found in possession for sale and supply of drugs to a value of €12,500 or more. Unfortunately that legislation contained a caveat - literally a get-out-of-jail clause - that allowed judges to give lesser sentences if there were exceptional and specific circumstances that would render such a sentence "unjust in all circumstances". The judges do not know defendants that appear before them and the prosecution does not make a plea for leniency. So that information comes from counsel for the accused who will tell the court what their often devious, cunning and plausible client has told them.  The mandatory sentence was introduced as a deterrent so that anyone involved in the drug trade would know what they were risking by trading at this significantly high level. But it hasn't worked. Judges have been persuaded more often than not that one special circumstance or another would make a 10-year sentence - or even larger - unjust.  A study of sentencing over the last five years shows that in only 3pc of these cases was the mandatory sentence imposed. There were 825 such cases but all except 25 of these serious drug dealers escaped the fate the law intended. Some 44pc (363) got between one and five years while 91 were given suspended sentences and five drug dealers found to be in possession of illegal drugs to a value of €12,500 for sale or supply were given community service or a fine.  Undoubtedly there were some among the 825 charged who had genuine hard luck stories - but could there really be so many, or is it more likely that judges are easily fooled because they do not live in the real world? Either way, the message to the drug dealers is clear - don't worry about that old mandatory sentencing - chances are you'll be all right, especially if you get a good brief - most likely on legal aid - and it probably doesn't matter much if you were out on bail for a similar offence at the time.  Plus, you can always rely on our old friend the concurrent sentence, which means even if you get more that one sentence, you'll serve them all at the same time. You might even get a suspended sentence or community service or just a fine. Magic. That's not much of a deterrent. Certainly it does not seem to be the intended weapon in the on-going war. We need to remember how we felt 20 years ago when Veronica was murdered to protect the drug trade, and how we felt every time since when another innocent family had a similar fate visited upon them. We must never forget the direct link between the cash tendered for a bit of weekend recreation and the vicious drug lords behind this "trade", and how any information about what is going on in your locality could be of immense value to the gardai in their unenviable task. For at the heart of all drug dealing is base criminality, and as long as misery and death are dispensed on such an industrial scale, the toughest preventative measures will still have to be applied. Sunday Independent 
