drugs
{  
    June 28 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/irish/state-seeking-to-cut-drugs-bill-but-who-picks-up-the-tab-26381885.html }
The Exchequer, on behalf of taxpayers, is renegotiating its annual drugs bill, which now tops ?1bn. It is in a four-handed poker game between the drug makers, the wholesalers, pharmacists, and taxpayers. The stakes are high and the outcome is unclear WITH negotiations between the Government and pharmaceutical firms over drug prices due to end shortly, it is expected that consumers will be in for a small reduction in their pharmacy bills, but anyone expecting huge discounts will be disappointed. This is largely because the negotiations are designed to reduce the Government's medical bill, currently estimated at over ?1bn per annum, which is coming under increased pressure due to higher drug prices and the growing ageing population. For example, according to recent figures from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the ageing population, or percentage of people over the age of 65, here is growing. Percentage According to the body, in 1995 the percentage was 11.4pc, but this is expected to grow to 13.3pc by 2020, or 26.1pc of the total labour force. The Government pays for up to 85pc of the medicines sold in Ireland through numerous schemes. Of this, 25pc is accounted for by hospital cover, 45pc General Medical Services (GMS) and a further 14pc through the Drugs Payment Scheme, according to the latest available figures from Goodbody Stockbrokers. Only 9pc of the drug bill is footed by private patients. The current negotiations are being conducted by the drug manufacturers, the Health Service Executive (HSE) and the Department of Health and are just phase one in a fourfold round of discussions. Following the discussions with the drug manufacturers, further talks will be held between the HSE and the drug wholesalers like Uniphar and United Drug. Two other sets of negotiations will then take place between generic drug producers and the Irish Pharmaceutical Union (IPU), which represents the pharmacy sector. Phase one of the talks will set the pace of the other negotiations, according to industry sources. It is understood that the Government is most likely to attempt to reduce its drug bill by targeting the off-patent drugs market. It is expected that this could lead to a reduction of up to 15pc in off-patent drugs, according to one drug wholesaler who did not wish to be named. Generally speaking, the patent runs out on these drugs in 10 to 15 years. The talks are as political as they are shrouded in secrecy. Drug manufacture is a very important component of the Irish economy from both a jobs, export and R&D perspective. For example, Irish exports are often discussed in 'ex-pharma' terms because the sector accounts for such a high percentage of our exports. Many of these companies also have R&D facilities at the Irish operations. "This is sensitive stuff," the wholesaler said. "These companies account for a large proportion of Irish exports and thousands of manufacturing jobs. It is not in the Government's interest to upset them too much." Another option would be a reduction of new drug prices, but the off-patent route is seen as the lesser of two evils by the manufacturers because many of these products are older drugs which command good margins anyway. The manufacturers would take less of a hit this way, compared with tackling new drug prices, although this option has not been ruled out altogether. Currently new drug prices, or ex-factory prices, are set using a basket of prices from five countries - Denmark, France, Germany, Netherlands and the UK. Some market watchers say that one route would be to modify the basket to include, for example, two cheaper countries like Spain and Portugal, which would automatically reduce the prices. Another alternative route would be to change the rules on the dispensing of cheaper, generic drugs. Under current rules, generic drugs can only be prescribed at the GP stage. The generic sector is lobbying the Government to have this rule changed, so that the pharmacist could supply a cheaper, generic product, instead of a more expensive patent product at the counter stage - for example, dispensing the generic ulcer treatment Ulcid instead of the patented drug Losec. However, the wholesale sector is likely to object to such a move - if pharmacists deal directly with the generic producers - as the wholesale sector would be cut out completely if such a decision were agreed. The HSE is also due to hold discussions with the IPU, the chemists' union. Discounts Currently pharmacists enjoy discount or bonus structures from the wholesalers for bulk buying, often referred to as 'discounts'. It is not clear yet whether the Government plans to tap into this as part of its attempt to reduce its drug bill. With the bill estimated at over ?1bn, compared with a payment of ?943.21m to pharmacies in 2003 in administering the various medical schemes and ?674.8m in 2001, it is understood the Government is keen to seal a deal. The next few months will be telling for all the elements that make up the Irish pharmaceutical sector - from the pharmaceutical giants down to the pharmacist in your local town or village. 
