drugs
{  
    March 16 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/majority-of-people-do-not-agree-with-gaybo-on-legalising-drugs-27434660.html }
The veteran broadcaster, Gay Byrne recently called for a fresh debate on the use of drugs in Irish society and urged the authorities to examine the possibility of legalising their sale. The chairman of the Road Safety Authority said he didn't come to this view lightly and admitted that it was ' a mightly chasm' for him to leap. He said there had to be another way of approaching the drugs problem in Ireland which is responsible for a rising number of brutal gangland killings. 'Dead bodies are being found every day of the week. All I am saying is maybe there is another way of doing it', he said. 'Do you keep on trying to solve a probelam that has been with us for 40 years or should we be looking at legalising the bloody thing?' 'You do not find people killing each other over a packet of cigarettes or a can of Heineken', he added. 'How long do you keep on repairing a car that is not working before you say maybe there is another way of doing this?' Mr. Byrne said Garda bosses had admitted that only about an estimated 10 per cent of drugs coming into Ireland were being seized- and yet millions of Euro were being spent, both in the battle against drugs and in providing resources for the drugs squad. Last week, during the hearing of a cannabis possession case, the District Court Judge, William Early said he could criminalise two-thirds of the youth of Ireland for possession of small amounts of cannabis. However, responding to Gay Byrne's comments, both the Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern and Deputy Noel Ahern, the Minister of State responsible for drug strategy indicated that legalising drugs was not an option the Government would consider. 'I'm entirely opposed to legalising any drug. At different stages, different people have tried to make an argument for legalising drugs. But it's not a suggestion that can work', said Noel Ahern. 'Drugs are illegal and that's the right way to have them. Any talk about liberalising drugs is irresponsible.'. Kevin Killeen of Killurin who runs a tattoo business in Wexford town is in favour of legalising drugs. 'I agree with Gay Byrne for once', he said. 'I wish I could go and buy my drugs in the chemist rather than from criminals. I would rather go to the chemist and buy good quality cannabis and know what I'm getting'. 'Why should crime bosses get the profits out of it. If it was legalised, the tax from it could be used in a more positive way than gangsters buying guns'. 'They have been trying to fight the drug war for about 45 years. It's a war that they have already lost and they lost it many years ago. There are more people taking drugs and a bigger variety of drugs now than ever before'. 'I've been brought to court over my drug use. I've been through the humiliation of appearing in court, my life brought up in public, all because of my smoking habits'. 'I've been smoking cannabis for a hell of a long time. I like smoking good quality cannabis. It didn't lead me on to heroin. My life is far more important to me than any drug', said Kevin. In relation to the prosecution of young people for the possession of small amounts of cannabis, he commented 'Making enemies out of the gardai is not helpful'. Former garda, Anne Kehoe of Crossabeg is vehemently opposed to Gay Byrne on the legalising or decriminalising of drugs. 'The drug lords who are behind all this are still going to get rich', she said, adding that the gardai need more resources to crack down on drugs criminals. 'The gardai are under-funded and they are not getting the support they need. People are afraid of these guys'. According to Anne, the real problem lies not with the average young drug-user on the street but with the criminal background to the drugs market. 'Another aspect is that people talk about drug-related burglaries. But cocaine use is the biggest problem in Ireland at the moment and the people using it are not breaking into houses', said Anne. Mary Kinch from Gorey doesn't agree with Gay Byrne's suggestions. 'I don't think drugs should be legalised,' she said. 'It leads to too many problems. Gorey is getting very bad with drugs, and we're starting to see all sorts of problems'. Hughie Kennedy from Gorey agrees with Mary, but not with Gay Byrne. 'I don't think they should ever be legalised,' he said. I wouldn't like to see them legalised anyway. If they are legalised, it will escalate more, and people get into drugs more and more'. 'It definitely leads to problems,' he added. 'It's bad enough in the town and it's getting worse and worse all the time. Gay Byrne should come out of his house in Dublin and come down to a little town like this and see what it's like'. Margaret Ellix of The Harrow, Enniscorthy. 'No they should not be legal. I am totally against the use of drugs and making them legal would only cause more problems. 'I'm surprised at what Gay Byrne said. He is the one that said drink and drugs are the cause of many road deaths.' Robert Costen of Fr. Cullen Terrace, Enniscorthy. 'There are to many young people getting involved with drugs. I have ten grandchildren and would not like to see any of them using drugs. 'Gay is on the wrong note, they should not be legal as too many families are being destroyed. 'It's all about the money they don't care about the users. I have three children myself and thank God none of them use drugs. There is mixed opinion in New Ross over the question of legalising drugs. Patrick Traynor from Rosbercon is firmly ofthe opinion that legalising drugs - of any class - is a slippery slope, and should be avoided at all costs. 'I don't think that they should be legalised, not even cannabis. Once it remains illegal it's a deterrent to anyone using it,' he said. He said that if cannabis was legalised it wouldn't be long before higher class and harder drugs would become more freely available. 'I really don't think that it's feasible. If you start legalising one, people will fall into using harder type drugs,' he said. However, Bernie Sweeney from Poulfaille, New Ross is of a differing opinion. 'I think legalising drugs is possibly a good idea, but it would want to be supervised. If they did it they would want to keep an eye on it,' she said. 'If they did legalise drugs they would cut out the dealers, and they are the ones who are responsible for the drug crime,' she said. 
