drugs
{ Mary Kirwan 
    March 23 2009 04:43 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/health-wellbeing/fitness/the-fat-controller-diet-drugs-26523147.html }
THE list of solutions to Ireland's obesity crisis is now growing faster than even our nation's expanding waistline. While diet and exercise are universally recommended as the first line of attack against excess flab, there's also a plethora of over the counter products available to those who want to lose weight. More controversially there are also prescription drugs available to help people trying to shed those excess pounds. According to the Department of Health the two obesity drugs available on prescription here are Reductil and Xenical. These obesity drugs may be only one of the many weapons in the fight against flab, but diet pills have some high profile backers. Before Christmas Gerry Ryan whole-heartedly endorsed one of these prescription-only pills, Reductil, crediting it with helping his weight loss without cramping his style. "Pre-Reductil, I would go to Shanahan's, and I would get an entire T-bone steak into me. Now that doesn't happen. I can only get half the steak into me. And I can only get half the pea soup in," he said The two prescription drugs work in different ways. Reductil enhances the levels of serotonin, which suppresses appetite, thus turning Gerry off the rest of his steak. Xenical (Orlistat) acts locally in the digestive system to prevent fat absorption. We're not alone in using drugs to combat obesity. A recent report in the United Kingdom showed a 16pc increase in drugs being prescribed to treat weight problems in 2007. Obesity is a big problem in Ireland. A HSE statement has revealed €22m was spent on obesity drugs between 2006, 2007 and 2008 under the drugs payment scheme.  Obesity These drugs cost around €7m in 2008 alone, which is close to the figure given by the government for the roll-out of the cervical cancer vaccine. According to the 2005 National Taskforce report on Obesity, 39pc of Irish adults are overweight and 18pc are obese, with a massive 67pc increase in obesity in the 10 years between 1990 and 2000. Against this background there is going to be a major development in obesity drug treatment next month in Ireland. From late April a new anti-obesity drug will be available over the counter at pharmacies. In January 2009 the EU granted Alli (Orlistat) a licence as an over the counter treatment. It is the first time the European Commission has approved a non-prescription product for weight loss. There has been some concern over the obesity drug market from health watchdogs. The United Nations watchdog, the International Narcotics Control Board, has called for tighter controls over the diet-pill market in the past. Alli contains a lower dose of Orlistat, the active ingredient in the prescription only Xenical. Adults with a body mass index of 28 and over can buy the drug from their local pharmacy once the manufacturer GlaxoSmithKline releases it on the Irish market. "We expect it to retail at around €50-€60 for a month's supply," said a GlaxoSmithKlein spokesperson. The recommended dosage for Alli is three times a day for up to six months. The manufacturers claim that using Alli in conjunction with a reduced fat diet could help people lose 50pc more weight than dieting alone. Dr Martin Henman, Senior Pharmacology Lecturer in Trinity College Dublin, spoke of his support for the drug. "Research has shown that consumers are spending their money on products that often have no evidence to back them up, such as fad diets, fat burners and weight-loss supplements. "By making a licensed non-prescription product available, Irish consumers will have the option of a proven therapy, used in conjunction with a balanced, low-fat diet, which can support them with their struggle to achieve sustained weight loss," he said. "For many losing weight can become the catalyst to improvements in their overall health and self-esteem," added Dr Henman. A recent editorial in the medical journal The Lancet warned that the over the counter drug could lead to the false idea that taking a pill can solve weight problems. It also held that the drug in fact only leads to weight loss of around 5.5lb a year. Professor Niall Moyna, Senior Lecturer in Exercise Physiology in Dublin City University, is not surprised Alli is soon to be available over the counter: "People want something that is easy. "The advantage of the drug is that the person using it must adopt a low-fat diet and incorporate exercise into their daily routine for it to work,'' he said.  Change "I can see that it can have a role to play in severely overweight people under the supervision of a doctor. It can help bring about a positive change.'' However Professor Moyna doesn't think the drug is the answer to the nation's obesity problem. "In the past Xenical didn't prove to be the wonder drug it was expected to be. People who have been overweight tend to put the weight back on again and so there must be long-term behavioural changes. "The longer you take to lose weight, the less likely you are to put it back on. "You have to reduce calorific intake. Even if we were still eating a 1940s diet we would be gaining weight as a nation because of a lack of physical activity,'' said Professor Moyna. "The advice that I often give is to cut out around 250 calories which could be as simple as a soft drink and a walk a day. This alone can give a daily 500 calorie deficit.'' Another problem he sees with the drug is that it does not sort out the root of the problem. "It is only available to adults. If a child is obese they have a 80-90pc chance of being an obese adult, 10, 15 years down the line. "At least when it was only available on prescription you had to come face to face with your doctor. You were only given a prescription for a certain length of time and your progress could be monitored," Professor Moyna said. "But what happens if someone starts to double or even treble the dosage? Then you have the same strength drug as Xenical, which is prescription only." The Irish Medicines Board has released details of the common side effects of Alli, including anxiety and gastrointestinal complaints like spontaneous fatty diarrhoea and oily discharges. Treatment with Alli may also impair the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E and K and it's recommended that patients using it take a multivitamin at night. The Department of Health, in a statement, sought to reassure consumers about Alli. "Alli is a very low dose weight-loss drug which has been approved by the European Medicines Agency EMEA. While this drug is non-prescription only there are very clear labelling and instructions for use requirements and the product can only be sold through pharmacies." Both the government and the manufacturer are placing heavy responsibility on the pharmacies to regulate the sale of Alli. GlaxoSmithKline head of regulatory and external affairs Niall O'Shea says: "The pharmacies will check the individual is over 18, has a BMI of 28 or over and ask further questions." He also said that a decision about whether there will be a central database to track customers' usage and possible misuse of the drug will be for the pharmacies to decide. "It's not a magic pill. If you want to lose weight you will need to exercise and change your diet too," he said. 
