drugs
{  
    June 16 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/argus/news/growing-cocaine-use-is-deeply-worrying-trend-26900502.html }
By Kevin MulliganIllicit drug use in the Dundalk area is no better or no worse than in any other region of the country, according to Brian Mohan head of the town’s drug unit. But in common with the rest of the country Dundalk is experiencing an explosion in the use of cocaine which is deeply worrying since the drug, which is regarded as one of the more fashionable and addictive of the illicit substances, is surfacing at more and more social occasions in the town. Currently there is a National Drugs Strategy 2001-2008 titled “Building on Experience” which has been developed with various state agencies and seeks to tackle four crucial areas (1) reduction in the supply of drugs (2) Prevention in drug use, including education and awareness (3) Drug treatment, including rehabilitation and risk reduction and (4) research. Is this strategy working in the Dundalk area? Reducing the supply of drugs to the area is like trying to plug a hole in a dyke with a straw. Just impossible. “There are too many people and too much movement of traffic into the country on a daily basis to stop the supply” said Det. Sergt. Mohan who revealed that there are a number of major importers of drugs in this area who are constantly under scrutiny. This however has failed to stop the flow. “Drugs such as cocaine and marijuana can be compressed into small blocks and hidden in very small panels in trucks, cars, or containers where it is virtually impossible to detect without searching every vehicle and grinding the economy of the country to a halt” said Det. Sergt. Mohan. The compressed drugs are then mixed with other substances some of them unsafe for human use and distributed. “We have found a number of locations in this region where the drugs were being mixed, but as soon as we close one, another is opened”. The drugs are then freely distributed through a network of dealers and users many of whom have devised very sophisticated methods for distribution as Det. Sergt. Mohan explained. “The principal players never carry drugs when they are selling them to a dealer or a user for they usually use a drop point, perhaps a lonely country road and with the use of a phone can guide the buyer to the location to pick up the drugs or to collect the money”. Nor is it difficult to suck in people to sell and distribute the drug. “Once someone is hooked on drugs they are immediately vulnerable for they need to feed their own habit by generating the money through distribution and securing new customers” said Det. Sergt. Mohan. Once sucked into the web the users find it hard to break free as one such user freely admitted to Gardai. He was aware he was under observation but nonetheless was found in possession, arrested and subsequently sentenced after conviction. When questioned as to why he was carrying when he knew he was under observation he admitted that when he was caught the phone calls stopped, he served his time, kicked the habit and has now rehabilitated his life. “The big players know how to manipulate people, especially users and they exploit this to their advantage” said the detective sergeant who revealed that drugs are not freely abused or distributed either inside or outside the school gate as some in the town have been suggesting. “There is little doubt that drugs such as marijuana and cocaine are available in social outlets, as well as a certain amount of ecstasy which is not as fashionable as it once was, but we have come across only a handful of incidents in which school children were involved”. Age and use statistics indicate that young people typically first experiment with tabacco and alcohol. “I have never met a drug user yet who has not started with alcohol, usually starting to drink with friends in a field or down an alley and they then move on to use inhalants and marijuana” said Set. Sergt. Mohan who supports the view recently expressed by psychiatrist, Dr. Teresa Carey former member of the North Eastern Health Board that the single biggest drug of abuse is alcohol. “Interestingly when we hold meetings or seminars for young people they will identify alcohol as the drug that is most abused while adults identify drugs” said Det. Sergt. Mohan. He believes that is because almost everything in this country from the christening to the funeral starts and ends with alcohol and that as a society we have failed to recognise the bad example we are giving to our children. “Most people enjoy a social drink” said Det. Sergt. Mohan “but our whole culture is built around drink, we have failed to acknowledge this and as parents we do not fully accept that alcohol abuse is a major problem in our society”. How then should we meet the second of the challenges set down in the National Drugs Strategy, prevention of drug abuse. “Education and awareness are the only creditable means” according to Det. Sergt. Mohan who puts forward as a possible solution a programme that is meeting with great success in America and which he saw at first hand himself. It is the Drug Abuse Resistance Education (D.A.R.E). “The Americans have accepted that after spending billions of dollars trying to stop the flow of illicit drugs into their country by taking on the drug suppliers in South America and elsewhere that it was an impossible task. They have now started to pump more and more of their resources into education and are seeing the benefits”. Some of that money is going into D.A.R.E. for the movement which started in Los Angeles gives kids the skills they need to avoid involvement in drugs, gangs and violence. It is now implemented in 80% of schools in America and in more than 60 countries round the world. The programme works on a police officer-led series of classroom lessons that teaches children through from infants to leaving primary school how to resist peer pressure and live productive drug and violence free lives. “Most young people in Dundalk and elsewhere are introduced to drugs by a friend or a member of their family” said the detective sergeant. “This is one of the aspects that has to be highlighted by any educational programme, but while it essential to try and highlight the issues to children it is equally important that parents must also be educated to recognise vital tell tale signs of drug abuse and how to react. Det. Sergt. Mohan regularly gets reformed drug abusers to talk to young groups and parents and he feels that it is beneficial to expose such groups to the difficulty in breaking the vicious cycle of drug abuse, the lengths to which abusers will go to feed their habit and the damage it can cause to their family and social status as well as their health. “From the moment that a constant drug abuser feeds his or her habit they are thinking of how they are going to get the money to feed their next fix” said Det. Sergt. Mohan and they do not care where they get that money. But the most recent statistics reveal the magnitude of the problem we are facing for of the 1,426 adolescents randomly selected in second level schools in the north-east area, 41% responded that they have taken an illicit drug at least once. “Thankfully only about 10 to 15% progress to having a problem with drug abuse” said Det. Sergt. Mohan “but that is still a very high number of young people whose lives are blighted”. Is there sufficient treatments and a rehabilitation network available as the National Drugs Strategy demands for constant abusers in this region ? Unfortunately not. “I have met parents who just do not where to turn to for help” said Det. Sergt. Mohan adding “they have tried everything to stop their children abusing drugs, and their lives and those of the other members of their families are in turmoil”. Indeed some parents encounter such despair that while they would not want to see their own children go to prison they realise that in some cases the only specialised help is available through the criminal justice system. “I understand that and have experienced this cry for help from parents and my heart goes out to them for those who have not experienced drug addiction at first hand fail to realise the extent of the heartbreak that it can cause”. More resources are undoubtedly needed in provincial towns such as Dundalk for while Dublin is relatively well serviced in this regard, the drug problem is not confined to the city and is just as real on the streets and social outlets of Dundalk as anywhere else. 
