drugs
{ Shane Phelan, Investigative Correspondent 
    December 26 2009 04:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/drugs-clampdown-failing-prisons-boss-says-26594382.html }
THE head of Ireland's prisons has admitted that it is unlikely our jails will ever be free of drugs. In an exclusive interview with the Irish Independent, Irish Prison Service Director General Brian Purcell also revealed overcrowding was making it more difficult to tackle the issue -- both in terms of detecting drugs and providing treatment. His frank admission will come as a sobering wake-up call to the Government five years after it first outlined plans for drugs-free prisons. Former Justice Minister Michael McDowell vowed in 2004 to make jails drug-free within 18 months. This pledge failed to materialise, with new figures revealing the level of drug seizures at the country's largest prison, Mountjoy, remains high despite the unprecedented crackdown. There have been 505 seizures in Mountjoy this year, compared with 573 throughout 2008.  Commitment Drugs Minister John Curran last night reiterated the Government's commitment to pushing for drug-free jails. But he conceded there were "difficulties and practicalities" with doing so. Asked if the concept of drug-free prisons was realistic, Mr Purcell told the Irish Independent: "To be perfectly honest, while that's the aim of the drugs policy in the prisons, I think you'd have to say the day we have a drug-free society, that's going to be the day we have a drug-free prison. "By their nature quite a significant number of people who come into custody would have issues with drug use and drug abuse. "So, if it is a problem on the outside, it's going to be a problem on the inside." Mr Purcell added that "maybe someday" prisons might be drug-free, but that it would be "a long journey". Opposition TDs said the lack of drug-free jails represented "a major policy failure" for the Government. Fine Gael justice spokesman Charlie Flanagan said: "As things stand there are people entering our prisons clean and coming out with drug problems. It makes a mockery of the Government's stated aim to take drugs out of prisons." Mr Purcell played down the level of drug-dealing in prisons, stating: "Studies have shown that drugs are not half as freely available in a prison setting as some reports would have you believe." However, he conceded that despite a range of tough new security measures, some inmates were coming up with "ingenious" ways to smuggle drugs in. He added increases in inmate numbers had also made it more difficult to detect drugs and treat addicts. "The single biggest issue is the pressure it puts on resources," he said. Nine of the country's prisons operated at or above full inmate capacity last year, when prison committals jumped to 13,557 compared with just 11,934 in 2007. Mountjoy has the only full drug rehabilitation programme in the country, taking nine inmates at a time, and is also the country's largest methadone clinic, providing substitution therapy to up to 260 prisoners a day. Des Crowley, a clinician working with drug addicts at Mountjoy, said the overcrowded conditions were having a significant impact on the treatment of addicts.  Agitated "Patients get a lot more agitated. They get more aggressive. They have a lot more issues. They have more availability of drugs, so it does compound on our work," said Mr Crowley. Mr Purcell said the completion of the delayed Thornton Hall prison facility was critical to eliminating overcrowding. The new prison, which is set to replace Mountjoy, suffered a major setback in the past year when negotiations with a consortium to build the facility broke down. The Government has only committed funds for the coming year for the construction of a dedicated access route to the proposed north Co Dublin complex. Construction may also begin on the security and perimeter wall for the complex towards the end of 2010. "It is critical for us that the capital programme will continue," said Mr Purcell. Analysis Irish Independent 
