drugs
{ Edel Kennedy 
    November 18 2006 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/experts-under-fire-over-recreational-drug-claims-26356021.html }
A SO-CALLED expert group has been branded "irresponsible" after it suggested drug use in Ireland was recreational and therefore harmless. The Drug Policy Action Group made the claims in a report yesterday. A SO-CALLED expert group has been branded "irresponsible" after it suggested that most drug use in Ireland was recreational and therefore harmless. The Drug Policy Action Group (DPAG) made the claims in a report yesterday and said that government policy needed to be changed to reflect this. The conclusion was in stark contrast to recent comments by Justice Minister Michael McDowell, who made a direct link between recreational drug use and organised crime. Ireland has witnessed an explosion in cocaine use and in recent years a growing number of gang murders linked to the huge profits generated by the drug. Mr McDowell said: "If you do a line of cocaine in Foxrock, you are personally responsible for the murder of somebody in Clondalkin or Coolock." The Department of Justice refused to comment last night on the DPAG findings, but Minister of State Noel Ahern, who is involved in formulating drug policy, was furious. "All drugs are illegal, whether they are deemed recreational or not. All drug use starts out recreational but people get sucked in," he said. The DPAG also said that the Government's policy on drugs did more harm than good, but Mr Ahern rejected this statement, saying that the DPAG had been involved in its recent detailed review of the Drugs Strategy. "If they are coming out and criticising it now, it's a criticism of themselves because many of them were involved with it on the ground. "On the street and even in the legislation, cannabis is not seen as the same as coke. Gardai on the ground are not treating someone with a joint of cannabis as the same as the big fish who is importing drugs. "But to start formalising that sees the State saying one drug is not so serious as another, and we don't want that," Mr Ahern said. In the new paper into drug use in Ireland, the DPAG called on the Government to introduce a drug classification system similar to that in the UK, where drugs like heroin and cocaine are dealt with more seriously than others, such as cannabis. The experts called for penalties to be more proportionate to the harm caused by the drugs. "The majority of drug users in Ireland are recreational drug users," said Sean Cassin, chair of the group. "The smallest minority are problem drug users who contribute to the majority of the economic compulsive crimes. Yet official policy makes no distinction between the two groups. "Our current criminal drug laws increase rather than reduce harm." He said the entire criminal justice drug policy needed a radical overhaul to become more similar to the British system. However, Mr Ahern said that after the UK reclassified cannabis to make the penalties less severe, they did a U-turn a number of months later. Meanwhile, a report from the Drug Treatment Centre Board has found that heroin users accessing treatment in Dublin are extremely young by international standards. They usually first took drugs at 12 and heroin before they were 15. 30pc of young users were found to be homeless, with half living in hostels. Almost half had been homeless, while 27pc had spent time in care. 
