drugs
{  
    September 15 2012 03:44 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/i-had-a-good-degree-and-a-great-job-and-still-nearly-killed-myself-with-drugs-26898167.html }
It was three weeks ago when Adam stared death in the face. His recovery from addiction to a cocktail of drugs had been going well -- then he relapsed. He took cocaine and experienced once more that fleeting high that had made him so dependent on the drug for most of his life. Then, his body effectively went into shutdown mode and he wound up in hospital suffering from cardiac arrest. Today, Adam -- not his real name -- is relieved to still be alive. "I thought I was a goner," he says. "I'm in my early 40s and show little outward sign of being an addict. But my body simply can't take it any more. If I relapse again, I'll die. I'm certain of it." Articulate, well-spoken and a former financial services executive, Adam does not conform to the stereotype of a drug addict. But he has been battling an addiction to mood-altering substances since the age of 16, when he managed to gain entry to a now-defunct Dublin dance club and took ecstasy for the first time. And his battles with addiction have torn his world apart. He is estranged from the mother of his children, his friendships have petered out and his family, to all intents and purposes, shun him. "When I was in hospital three weeks ago, I was acutely aware that I was going to have to get through this alone. People just don't want to know -- and after what I've put them through, I don't blame them." The Coolmine Therapeutic Community, which is based in west Dublin, put Weekend Review in touch with Adam. He credits this facility -- established in 1973 -- with the progress he has made to date. "I'd heard horror stories about Coolmine," he says, "about what a tough regime it is. The reality is different, although nobody should be under any illusion as to how difficult it is to come off drugs." The spectre of middle-class drug-taking was thrown into sharp relief this week when a pair of friends, 22-year-old Waterford students Michael Coleman and Liam Coffey, were found dead in a house in Kinsale, west Cork. They had taken a toxic drug known as 'Mandy' -- a brown powder containing MDMA and PMMA -- that has claimed the lives of several people on the Continent this year. With a street price of €80 per gramme -- or 'bomb' -- gardaí suspect the victims may have thought they had acquired pure MDMA. The addition of the PMMA is what makes the drug so lethal. Adam is saddened, but not surprised by the story. "When you consider the number of people who take drugs all over the country and from all walks of life, something like this was bound to happen. It's very hard to know the purity of what you're taking. It's a lottery -- and it's a risk that people are willing to take. I know I did." It is a view shared by Paul Conlon, Coolmine chief executive. "With illegal drug use, you simply have no idea what you're buying. And if you're not a regular user, you just don't know what your tolerance is. The combination of both factors is especially dangerous." Although many of those who seek help at Coolmine hail from traditional poverty-stricken drug blackspots and have criminal records, increasing numbers are from the professional classes. "We've had people from medical professions -- who, of course, have easy access to prescription drugs. We've had media people, civil servants. People, basically, who never thought they would need to get treatment for drug addiction." That a quiet, residential street in Kinsale would be the location for the drug deaths of two students has surprised many, but not those who work in the field of drug treatment. "It's all about availability," Conlon says. "And there is plenty of availability in rural Ireland. I'm from Wexford and a young man died of an overdose in a nearby village, so nobody in that part of the country is under any illusion about the reach of drugs." Data from the Health Research Board showed that one in five people presenting for alcohol treatment in Ireland has reported abusing at least one other substance -- with cannabis, cocaine, benzodiazepines (sleeping tablets) and ecstasy the most common. Furthermore, the number of people reporting for drug treatment has increased substantially. In 2005, there were 12,010 cases nationwide. Five years later, that figure had risen to 16,429. And these figures, Conlon says, only provide a snapshot of the situation in Ireland today, as occasional and recreational drug users -- whose numbers are difficult to quantify -- rarely seek treatment. Drug treatment specialists believe the recession has had a two-fold impact. On the one hand, there is anecdotal evidence that people are opting for cheaper drugs. On the other, it seems that financial stresses are encouraging drug-taking as a means of temporary escape from life's tribulations. Adam agrees: "Stress plays a huge part, but so does a feeling of emptiness in your life. The escapist quality of drugs is what's so appealing. Don't forget that the reason people get hooked on drugs is because they feel so good when you're first doing them. "Life's worries disappear -- if only for a few hours. My use really went up after my father's death in 2006 and during a period where I owed some dodgy people a lot of money." Adam, who despite his addiction still manages to hold down a job, believes that to understand the appeal of drugs for Ireland's middle classes, it's essential to consider the country's "abusive" relationship with alcohol. "The two go hand-in-hand," he says. "People talk about getting wasted when they go out drinking, that a night out just isn't what it could be unless they get absolutely hammered. It doesn't take a genius to work out that the next obvious step is to try something harder. "Looking back, I moved from taking one ecstasy tablet a night to 10 Es over the course of a 24-hour bender. Then it was cocaine -- which I reckon I've spent at least 100 grand on -- and then, when that started to lose its attraction, I moved on to crack. And that, let me tell you, is just about the nastiest drug you can do." Indo Review 
