{ By David Wilcock, Whitehall Correspondent For Mailonline   Published:  13:14, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8029151/Tantric-sexual-massage-business-discovered-running-parlours-BASEMENT-Rory-Stewarts-home.html }
Former Tory minister Rory Stewart was left shocked after discovering a business running tantric massage parlours offering sexual therapy was being run from the basement of his family home. The London mayoral hopeful discovered he had been living about the headquarters of Eva's Tantric Massages when he was told by letting agents who managed the flat  on his behalf. The firm, which is due to be wound up later this month, offered £120-per-hour sessions with women that would provide 'deep, inner orgasmic movement of energy, with waves of bliss spreading throughout the entire body'. The operated at locations in central and east London but used the flat as an office premises without Mr Stewart's knowledge. A spokesman for the former justice minister said: 'The Stewarts have rented the basement of their house for many years.  'This has always been managed through a letting agency, and the terms of the rental agreements have always stipulated that there can be no business activity in the flat.  'As soon as the letting agency became aware that the tenant had acted in contravention of her rental agreement by registering the address as a business address, she was asked t o vacate immediately - and the agency apologised to the Stewarts for the breach of the agreement.' According to online documents the company is no longer run by 'Eva' and it due to be struck off the business register later this month.   Its website says its services will leave customers feeling 're-energised and healed in mind and body'. Mr Stewart is hoping to oust incumbent Sadiq Khan when London goes to the polls in May this year and he is pulling out all of the stops to try to make an impression on the race.  The former MP and Cabinet minister was stripped of the Tory whip last year after rebelling over Brexit.  He then opted not to stand at the 2019 general election, deciding instead to throw his hat in the ring in the race for City Hall.  Last week he launched a bizarre bid to boost his campaign as he asked voters to invite him to stay at their homes.  The independent candidate has launched a new initiative called 'Come Kip With Me' so that he can be shown the capital through the eyes of ordinary Londoners.  He pledged to arrive with a 'sleeping bag and a box of chocolates' as the announcement instantly sparked online mockery and suggestions that it is 'a tad creepy'.      
