brexit
{ By Baz Bamigboye for the Daily Mail   Published:  01:05, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8026455/BAZ-BAMIGBOYE-Anne-Marie-Duff-gets-tough-central-matriarchal-role-new-play.html }
Anne-Marie Duff is going ‘home’ to the stage, to play the central role in an epic play which covers five decades of a working-class family’s struggle to stay together. Duff, who stars in the second season of the Netflix smash hit Sex Education, told me she’ll be playing Constance, a matriarchal figure in the Webster household in Nottingham, in Beth Steel’s new play The House Of Shades. The award-winning actress said that after reading the first 20 pages she knew she had to do it.  ‘I thought Omigod! It’s sexy, funny — and important.’ Duff said the play is about the Websters’ political, environmental and climate beliefs — and how they can tear a family apart.  ‘You’ve got the rise of Mrs Thatcher, and that sends a massive splinter through the family.’ The play reminded her of the 1960 Albert Finney film Saturday Night And Sunday Morning, about a hard-living factory worker.  ‘The family is connected to factory work,’ she said of the play.  ‘The miners’ strike is in there. As a child I remember us lighting candles because of the power cuts.’ She noted that we’re living through a period where many families are divided over Brexit, and how the country is run. Steel’s play, Duff said, connects ‘the political and social divide of the Sixties and Seventies’ with the current social climate. Constance is ‘one of those women thwarted by circumstance’.  ‘She could have been something else,’ she said.  ‘Perhaps a singer. So what did that do to her?’ Blanche McIntyre will direct House Of Shades at the Almeida Theatre from May 18. Duff said she returns to the stage as often as she can because it’s like ‘going home after being away for a long time, and getting back to your books and records and loved ones’. The actress can be seen in Sex Education playing Erin Wiley, drug-addicted mother of so-called ‘bad girl’ Maeve, played by Emma Mackey.  ‘I’ve never been stopped by so many millennials,’ she told me, bursting into giggles. ‘It’s hilarious!’ She also appears in BBC mini-series Salisbury as Tracy Daszkiewicz, public health chief for Wiltshire Council during the 2018 Novichok poisonings. 
