{ By Jane Denton For Thisismoney   Published:  11:49, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8024105/Can-Laura-Ashley-survive-Stricken-retailer-sees-losses-swell-4m-sales-sink.html }
Concerns for Laura Ashley's future are growing after it unveiled widening losses and a further drop in sales today.  The retailer's losses have swelled from £1.5million to £4million, while like-for-like sales fell by over 10 per cent during the period.     Alongside its interim results, the group also revealed it has hired Katherine Poulter, its chief operating officer, as its new chief executive with immediate effect, while Kwan Cheong Ng will retire.  On Wednesday, Laura Ashley revealed it had secured a loan to fund its day-to-day operations following speculation about its survival. The home and fashion group had been in talks with US bank Wells Fargo about terms for drawing on a £20million loan facility. Earlier this week the retailer's share price slumped by nearly 40 per cent after its Malaysian owners confirmed it was seeking an emergency injection of funds.    The latest interim results spell more bad news for investors, as the group's board is not recommending the payment of any interim dividend.  This morning, Laura Ashley's share price has risen sharply and is currently up 18.42 per cent or 0.35p to 2.25p.    Laura Ashley's chairman, Andrew Khoo, said: 'Over the past year there have been well documented market challenges facing the retail sector.  'Similarly at Laura Ashley, we have seen a combination of factors impact our results, ranging from higher costs largely driven by the Brexit uncertainty, minimum wages and business rates increases.'  He added: 'We are focused on developing Laura Ashley as a true lifestyle brand that embraces and reconnects with our traditional values and our strong British heritage. 'We are already making changes to our product range, which will not only be recognisable as iconic, exclusive Laura Ashley designs and prints, but also products that are desirable today and represent timeless quality.' For the first half of its financial year, Laura Ashley reported total group sales of £109.6million, down from £122.9million a year earlier. The drop in revenue stemmed from the closure of three stores and weaker consumer confidence, with a like-for-like retail sales down of 10.4 per cent. Laura Ashley attributed its £4million loss to lower home furnishings sales and revenue disruption caused by a change in its Japanese franchise partner. New boss Katherine Poulter faces an uphill struggle to turnaround the business, implement its recent 'strategic review' and start making a profit again.  The strategic review identified six key areas the group thinks it needs to work on, including boosting digital operations, improving the Laura Ashley brand and the products it sells.   The retailer is also working on new international partnerships, with a particular focus on the Asian market. Laura Ashley recently concluded a new master licence agreement with Itochu Corporation for the Japan territory.  Poulter has 25 years of retail experience with companies including Marks & Spencer, Habitat and Wilko.  Founded in 1953 by Welsh fashion designer Laura Ashley and her husband Bernard, the retailer became a middle-class favourite in the 1970s and 1980s with its floral prints, and Princess Diana was among a legion of well-heeled fans. But it has since struggled to attract younger buyers, with a slump in demand for its chintz furniture in particular leading to multi-million-pound losses in recent years. After a mini-revival in the late 1990s under new owners MUI – backed by Malaysian tycoon Khoo Kay Peng – Laura Ashley has battled to compete with more modern, cheaper rivals like Zara.  In December 2018, Laura Ashley announced it would close 40 stores across the country.  
