brexit
{ By Jane Denton For Thisismoney   Published:  10:25, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8023893/Lloyds-profits-drop-quarter-lender-forks-2-4BILLION-PPI-payouts.html }
Lloyds Banking Group saw its annual pre-tax profit drop by 26 per cent to £4.4billion, as the fallout from the national payment protection insurance mis-selling scandal continued. The bank, which incorporates Lloyds, Halifax and Bank of Scotland, said it had to set aside a further £2.45billion to cover PPI claim costs, bringing the total it has forked out on the saga up to £21.9billion. The group said it received around five million PPI information requests in the run up to the deadline on 29 August last year, and claims it has reached a settlement with the Official Receiver on the matter, but did not go into details about the settlement. The group's total annual revenue fell by 4 per cent to £17.1billion, while underlying pre-tax profit slipped 7 per cent to £7.5billion.  The group said it did not set aside any further PPI charges in the fourth quarter, after a mammoth £1.8billion bill in the third quarter amid a rush of claims ahead of the August deadline.  The drop in annual profits prompted the staff bonus pool to be cut by around a third to £310.1million. Chief executive Antonio Horta-Osorio's pay was also cut by 28 per cent to £4.73million for the year.  In a boost for shareholders, however, the group's total ordinary dividend was hiked by 5 per cent to 3.37p a share.    Horta-Osorio insisted the lender's results for 2019 were 'resilient'.  He added: 'Given our clear UK focus, our performance is inextricably linked to the health of the UK economy.  'Throughout 2019, UK economic performance has remained resilient in the face of significant political and economic uncertainty, supported by record employment, low interest rates and rising real wages.  'Although uncertainty remains given the ongoing negotiation of international trade agreements, there is now a clearer sense of direction and some signs of an improving outlook.' The FTSE-100 listed group has seen its share price rise over 3 per cent this morning to around the 57.60p mark. A year ago, the lender's share price was hovering around the 60.33p mark.  The group's share price took a major hit as the heat of the financial crisis took it toll. In January 2009, in the midst of a global financial crisis, Lloyds TSB took over HBOS, which itself stemmed from a merger between Halifax and Bank of Scotland.  The share price took a further hit late in 2011 when the bank's financial troubles were stark, triggering boss Horta-Osorio to take a leave of absence for stress-induced insomnia.  After a slight bounce back, the group's share price has failed to shift markedly for a decade. It has, however, had lots of ups and downs along the way, and investors are now being paid a chunky dividend yield of 5.8 per cent.      According to recent research by Interactive Investor, Lloyd's Banking Group is the most popular single stock held in its self-invested personal pension scheme.  Looking ahead to the next year, Lloyds Banking Group said it expects to report a return on tangible equity, which is a measure of its profitability, of between 12 and 13 per cent, against previous forecasts of 14 to 15 per cent.  Looking ahead, the FTSE 100 group said that although uncertainty persists and outlook remains challenging, there was now a 'clearer sense of direction' and the group 'faces the future with confidence.' Rising competition in the mortgage market has been putting pressure on banks and building societies across the country on the profit margin front. Michael Hewson, chief market analyst at CMC Markets UK, said: 'Since 2015 Lloyds Bank share price performance has been nothing short of disappointing at a time when overall its total loans and deposits has remained fairly steady, with a market capitalisation that has fallen from £52bn to around £39bn now. 'In the last 12 months the company has added to its mortgage portfolio, adding Tesco’s mortgage book for £3.7bn, bringing total assets up to £858.5bn. 'The bank has had to deal with its fair share of problems in that time from the fallout over the 2016 Brexit vote, lower interest rates, as well as more provisions in respect of PPI, however these problems don’t fully explain why the share price has underperformed compared to its peers. 'Not only have profits improved since 2015, but the dividend has been restored and the government stake was finally offloaded in May 2017, removing once and for all the dead hand of political interference that helped shape the recovery of the bank from one of the darkest chapters in its history.'  
