{ By Jonathan Chadwick For Mailonline    Published:  02:37, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-8023047/Google-plans-UK-users-accounts-outside-EU-jurisdiction.html }
Google is planning to move its British users' accounts out of the control of European Union privacy regulators, the tech giant has confirmed.  The company will be moving its British users out of Irish jurisdiction and placing them under US jurisdiction instead.  The decision, confirmed by Google and first reported by Reuters based on 'people familiar with the plans', has been prompted by Britain's exit from the EU.  The shift will leave the sensitive personal information of tens of millions of Brits with less protection and within easier reach of British law enforcement.  But data privacy campaigners said the move risks making protection rights 'more fragile' by handing them over to the US.  The US has among the weakest privacy protections of any major economy, with no broad law despite years of advocacy by consumer protection groups.  'Moving people's personal information to the USA makes it easier for mass surveillance programmes to access it," said Jim Killock, executive director of Open Rights Group. 'We have no reason to trust a Donald Trump government with information about UK citizens.  'The possibilities for abuse are enormous, from US immigration programmes through to attempts to politically and racially profile people for alleged extremist links.   'The UK must commit to European data protection standards, or we are likely to see our rights being swiftly undermined by 'anything goes' US privacy practices.'  The EU has one of the world's most aggressive data protection rules, the General Data Protection Regulation. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is a data protection law that entered into force on May 25, 2018. It aims to strengthen and unify data protection for all individuals within the European Union (EU). This means cracking down on how companies like Google and Facebook use and sell the data they collect on their users.  Under GDPR, companies are required to report data breaches within 72 hours, as well as to allow customers to export their data and delete it. Google and other US tech companies have their European headquarters in Ireland and the Irish Data Protection Commissioner is the lead regulator of the search giant in Europe.   Google has decided to move its British users out of Irish jurisdiction because it is unclear whether Britain will follow GDPR or adopt other rules that could affect the handling of user data, Reuters' source said.  The tech giant will shift control of UK data from Google Ireland to its US-based parent Google LLC.   Google intends to require its British users to acknowledge new terms of service including the new jurisdiction, according to people familiar with the plans. 'Like many companies, we have to prepare for Brexit,' Google said in an emailed statement to MailOnline.   'Nothing about our services or our approach to privacy will change, including how we collect or process data, and how we respond to law enforcement demands for users' information,'  There will be no change to privacy settings, the way Google processes user data or the way it treats user information, Google said.  'However, our data protection standards remain in place for UK users – same as under GDPR.  'The protections of the UK GDPR will still apply to these users.' Google could have had British accounts answer to a British subsidiary, but has opted not to.  If British Google users have their data kept in Ireland, it would be more difficult for British authorities to recover it in criminal investigations. The recent Cloud Act in the United States, however, is expected to make it easier for British authorities to obtain data from US companies.  Britain and the US are also on track to negotiate a broader trade agreement. UK data watchdog the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) said it is in contact with Google over protecting British privacy rights.  'Any organisation dealing with UK users' personal data should do so in line with the UK Data Protection Act 2018 and the GDPR which will continue to be the law unless otherwise stated by UK Government,' a spokesperson at ICO said.   Google has amassed one of the largest stores of information about people on the planet, using the data to tailor services and sell advertising. Lea Kissner, Google's former lead for global privacy technology, said she would have been surprised if the company had kept British accounts controlled in an EU country with the UK no longer a member. 'There's a bunch of noise about the UK government possibly trading away enough data protection to lose adequacy under GDPR, at which point having them in Google Ireland's scope sounds super-messy,' Kissner said. 'Never discount the desire of tech companies not be caught in between two different governments.' In coming months, other US tech companies will have to make similar choices, according to people involved in internal discussions elsewhere. Ireland's Data Protection Commissioner launched its first privacy probe last May over how Google handles data for advertising.   The probe was the result of a number of submissions against the company, the Irish Data Protection Commissioner said, including one from privacy-focused web browser Brave.  March 2019: Google refused to scrap a Saudi government app which lets men track and control women. The tech giant says that software allowing men to keep tabs on women meets all of its terms and conditions.  October 2018: A software bug in Google+ meant that the personal information of 'hundreds of thousands' of users was exposed. The issue reportedly affected users on the site between 2015 and March 2018. The bug allowed app developers to access information like names, email addresses, occupation, gender and more. Google announced it would be shutting down the Google+ social network permanently, partly as a result of the bug.  It also announced other security features that meant apps would be required to inform users what data they will have access to. Users have to provide 'explicit permission' in order for them to gain access to it.   August 2018: A new investigation led by the Associated Press found that some Google apps automatically store time-stamped location data without asking - even when Location History has been paused. The investigation found that the following functions were enabled by default:  This information was all logged as part of the 'Web and App Activity feature, which does not specifically reference location information in its description.     July 2018: The EU fined Google $5 Billion in for shutting-out competitors by forcing major phone manufacturers including South Korea's Samsung and China's Huawei to pre-install its search engine and Google Chrome browser by default.  July 2018: The Wall Street Journal revealed that data privacy practices of Gmail means that it was common for third-party developers to read the contents of users' Gmail messages.  
