{ By Reuters   Published:  14:37, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/reuters/article-8020789/No-special-treatment-City--EU-advisor.html }
By Huw Jones LONDON, Feb 19 (Reuters) - The European Union will determine Britain's access to the bloc's financial markets in the same way it has for Japan and the United States and won't give special treatment, a senior EU advisor said on Wednesday. Brussels grants direct access from abroad if it assesses that financial rules in a non-EU "third country" are as robust as those in the bloc, seeking to protect investors and financial stability. However this falls far short of the unfettered access UK firms still enjoy under the business-as-usual transition deal that followed Brexit last month and ends in December. The EU is the City of London financial sector's biggest customer and British regulators say the existing equivalence system is unreliable as access can be ended within a month. They want changes to introduce longer-term predictability. "For sure the EU will apply the existing equivalence framework to the UK in much the same way we apply to other third countries," said Stefaan de Rynck, an advisor to Michel Barnier, the bloc's chief negotiator in trade talks with Britain. The EU is committed to completing its assessments on UK equivalence in financial services by June. "That, of course, is not the same as giving equivalence," de Rynck told an audience at the London School of Economics, where he flagged up the EU's broader desire for any free trade deal to come with a commitment from London to uphold fair competition. "We also need to take into account the overall picture of the future relationship and be mindful of our support in the European Union to develop a strong capital markets union," he said. Highlighting the significance of the issue in any future trade deal, Andrew Bailey, due to become Bank of England governor next month, has said a framework was needed to avoid "punch ups" over equivalence. A large proportion of share and derivatives trade in Europe take place in London and the EU wants to build up its own capacity, which could influence to what extent equivalence will be granted. Britain has told the EU it won't be a "rule taker" by continuing to automatically replicate the bloc's financial rules after January. There are around 40 provisions for equivalence in EU financial laws, but they do not cover all activities. Uncertainty over access has led more than 300 banks, insurers and asset managers in Britain to open hubs in the EU to avoid potential disruption to clients. (Reporting by Huw Jones) 
