{ By Jane Denton For Thisismoney   Published:  14:11, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/mortgageshome/article-8020021/ONS-House-prices-rise-UK-market-picked-election.html }
A slight revival in the property market before the election saw house prices rise in every region of the UK for almost two years, new official data shows. House prices rose by 2.2 per cent in 2019, ONS figures for December revealed, up from the 1.7 per cent recorded in November. With a new record high price tag of £235,000, the average property ended 2019 £5,000 more expensive than a year earlier, despite political turmoil. While some property commentators were keen to claim the ONS figures as a further sign of a so-called Boris Bounce, the data is based on Land Registry sold prices and is unlikely to have been affected by any sales agreed after the election result in 13 December. Yorkshire and the Humber was the region with the highest annual house price inflation, with prices increasing by 3.9 per cent in the year to December. It was followed by the East Midlands with 2.8 per cent inflation and the East with 2.4 per cent inflation. House prices picked up in London, which saw an annual rise of 2.3 per cent but the South East saw the lowest gain last year of 1.2 per cent. House price inflation has tailed off since the EU referendum in June 2016, with London suffering the most. In recent months, the market appears to have picked up slightly, as uncertainty surrounding Brexit began to clear up.  Since the election estate agents and property listing sites Rightmove and Zoopla have reported an increase in activity, although agents have warned sellers against getting overconfident and hiking prices. While rising prices may cheer some sellers, many will see it as a problem as it makes it harder to get onto the property ladder or move up it. House prices are already near record levels when compared to wages, according to Nationwide Building Society figures. Northern Ireland saw the biggest national annual house price growth in 2019, at 2.5 per cent, but homes in the region remain among the cheapest in the country, at around the £140,000 mark.  In England, Wales and Scotland, house prices rose by 2.2 per cent last year, with the average standing at £252,000, £166,000 and £152,000, respectively. On a seasonally adjusted basis, average house prices across the country rose by 0.4 per cent monthly between November and December.  Delving deeper into the latest ONS figures, London property prices increased by 2.3 per cent last month to an average of £484,000.  This marks an increase from the 0.4 per cent growth seen in the capital in November and a bounce back from the 1.2 per cent drop in the year to October.  Jamie Durham, an economist at PwC, said: 'Price growth in London in particular has rebounded. 'This may suggest an end to North-South divide in house price growth that has been evident over the last couple of years.'  The North East of England continues to have the lowest average house prices in the country, at around £131,000, and is the only English region yet to surpass its pre-economic downturn peak of July 2007.           Between November 2019 and December 2019, the number of residential property transactions increased by 6.2 per cent, the Land Registry said.  The cost of detached and semi-detached homes has risen by 3.2 and 2.4 per cent respectively in the last year, while average prices for flats and terraced properties climbed by 0.6 per cent and 2.1 per cent.    Howard Archer, chief economic advisor to the EY Item Club, said: 'It needs to be noted that the ONS’ measure of house price inflation lags many of the other measures as it is based on mortgage completions.' He added: 'While we suspect that the housing market may get a further near-term boost from reduced uncertainties, we remain relatively cautious over housing market prospects over the whole of 2020 and suspect that the upside will likely be limited. 'Nevertheless, EY ITEM Club has modestly raised our forecast for house price gains over 2020 to 2.8 per cent from 2.0 per cent and there is clearly a possibility that they could rise more than this.  'This partly reflects the fact that we have also modestly raised our UK GDP growth forecast for 2020 to 1.2 per cent from 1.0 per cent.' Meanwhile, David Westgate, chief executive at Andrews Property Group said: 'For all regions to have delivered positive annual growth for the first time in nearly two years highlights just how resilient the UK property market has been against a backdrop of extreme political uncertainty.' 'There's a definite sense that the property market has turned a corner and is shaking off its post-EU referendum anxieties.'    With the new Chancellor's Budget on the cards in a matter of weeks, it remains unclear whether the Government will shake up the country's controversial stamp duty regime in a bid to inject more life into the housing market.   
