{ By Jack Elsom For Mailonline   Published:  15:13, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8009829/Man-52-arrested-crowdfunding-campaign-hire-hitman-murder-Gina-Miller.html }
A 52-year-old man has been arrested after launching a 'horrifying' crowdfunding campaign to pay a hitman to assassinate anti-Brexit activist Gina Miller. The man, who launched the donation drive under the name Jeff Blogger, has been detained by Northumbria Police.  He was arrested on suspicion of making malicious communications after expressing his aim to raise £10,000 to 'hire a contract killer to kill Gina Miller: The Traitor of Democracy'. He has been released pending investigation and the GoFundMe page has been deleted, according to the Sunday Mirror.  The page had been live for six months before it was wiped from the internet in October last year.  Ms Miller, 54, at the time told the newspaper: 'This is horrifying. It beggars belief that this can have been allowed to have been put up on this site and stayed there for so long.' And the high profile Remainer, who has spoken out about social media bullying, tweeted: 'We need to heal our nation and my view is that the only way of doing that is to remember true British values of tolerance, decency, reason, civic duty, common sense and above all else honesty and kindness.' The case was initially picked up by Scotland Yard, before seemingly being passed to the Newcastle-based force after identifying the man. A Met Police spokesman in October said: 'Officers from the Met's southwest CID team are currently investigating a report of threats to kill that was reported to them on 23 October.' A GoFundMe spokesman said in October: 'This campaign has been removed. 'We are sorry it got through our otherwise robust procedures. We are particularly sorry for any distress this caused Gina Miller.'  Ms Miller shot on to the political landscape in 2016 when she challenged the government in the courts, forcing Theresa May to put the Brexit withdrawal deal to a Commons vote. Since then, she continued to bang the drum for Remain and threw her weight behind a second referendum.  
