brexit
{ By Harry Cole For The Mail On Sunday   Published:  01:48, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8008883/HARRY-COLE-Tory-grandee-Sir-Bill-Cashs-son-embroiled-legal-fight-media-boss.html }
Fighting for journalism – that’s the proud slogan of the media magazine Press Gazette. But I hear its multi-millionaire owner Mike Danson is fighting for journalism in a rather unusual way at the moment. The publishing mogul, who also owns the Leftie New Statesman and bankers’ bible Spear’s, is threatening to haul Westminster’s newest magazine, The Mace, to the High Court in an extraordinary row with its founder, William Cash. Man-about-town Cash, the son of Tory Brexit grandee Sir Bill, sold a majority stake in Spear’s to Danson in 2010 and agreed to steer well clear of the wealth management and financial sector in a ‘non-compete’ clause as part of the deal. Although softly spoken in person, it seems that Danson carries a very big stick. Lawyers for Spear’s have sent threatening letters to Cash demanding that he close The Mace after just one issue – despite its focus on politics rather than finance – claiming it is a rival, amid a slew of other complaints. Mr Cash declined to comment, but I hear that his fledgling magazine is now on ice for the foreseeable future. Lindsay loses his loyal aide It's not only ex-Chancellor Sajid Javid’s dog Bailey who is leaving Westminster. Sad news reaches me that Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle’s rottweiler Gordon – named after the former Labour PM and nicknamed the ‘big clunking paw’ – has gone to the great kennels in the sky. Sir Lindsay says: ‘He was the most loyal family member one could have.’ Gordon, left with Sir Lindsay and wife Catherine, is survived by Maggie the tortoise, Patrick the cat, Boris the parrot and Betty the terrier, all shown here. There was an outbreak of unity in telly land after Downing Street officials blocked a Sky News journalist they do not like from conducting a pooled interview with Priti Patel on behalf of Sky, ITN and the BBC.  When Sky refused to send a replacement, No 10 offered the sit-down chat with the Home Secretary as an exclusive to the BBC without realising that Beeb staff knew what was going on.  When ITN said ‘No thank you’ too, a TV blackout ensued. Priti eventually surfaced… on LBC radio. After The Mail on Sunday revealed Cabinet Secretary Sir Mark Sedwill’s rather large expenses bill, including his penchant for using a chauffeur-driven limo, I hear the usually combative mandarin has been keeping a low profile.  He was supposed to be a guest at the star-studded Baftas a couple of weeks ago but pulled out when his £175,000 cost to the public purse was exposed.  There has been plenty of talk about Downing Street control-freakery of late, but Tory MPs are bristling at the latest wheeze by party whips.  Backbenchers are being ticked off on a register to make sure they turn up to cheer their Dear Leader at the weekly Prime Minister’s Questions sessions.  After quitting ahead of the last Election following accusations that he groped a male Labour MP – which he denies – I hear ex-Scottish Tory MP Ross Thomson, 32, has his eye on a comeback.  Apparently he has asked former colleagues to back his bid to become a peer. God loves a trier…  
