brexit
{ By Daily Mail Reporter   Published:  10:19, 15 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//travel/travel_news/article-8006999/The-Holiday-Guru-answers-traveller-queries-Louisiana-swamp-tours-post-Brexit-passport-rules.html }
The Holiday Guru is always on call to answer your questions. This week passport expiry rules after Brexit and the benefits of a foreign currency card are also on the agenda... Q. My husband, son and I want to visit Edinburgh by train with our dog and then tour Scotland. Are dogs allowed on trains? Do you know a dog-friendly hotel in Edinburgh and are dogs allowed on ferries to the Western Isles? Linda McGrath, via email. A. Yes, up to two dogs per passenger are allowed on UK trains for free as long as they are kept on leads. In Edinburgh, try Motel One Edinburgh-Royal, a five-minute walk from Edinburgh Waverley Station, with rooms from £69 (motel-one.com), and see the Pet Friendly section of lodging-world.com/pets-welcome. The Caledonian MacBrayne ferry allows pets on board for free (calmac.co.uk). Q. I am due to visit Croatia. Should I put money on a foreign currency card or take cash? What would happen if the card was stolen? Nora Merritt, via email. A. Foreign currency cards are useful as you avoid costly international transaction charges. The Post Office Travel Money Card can be frozen via a phone app if lost or stolen (postoffice.co.uk/travel-money/card). Q. My husband’s passport expires in October 2021. After the Brexit transition period can we visit the EU until the renewal date? Jean Cordukes, Yorkshire. A. It seems, but is not certain, that passports will require six months’ validity in the EU from 2021. See gov.uk/visit-europe-1-january-2021. Q. Do you know of a guided tour of Cajun country and the Louisiana swamps? Michael Dixon, via email. A. Try Cajun Country Swamp Tours run near Lafayette (cajuncountryswamptours.com). You cross swampland on a ‘crawfish skiff’ and may spot alligators. Direct return flights to New Orleans are from £615 (ba.com). See louisianatravel.com. Q. We wish to take trains in Italy and Germany on a complicated route. Can you help us? Hazel, via email. A. You will need to see various websites for connections and prices. Try raileurope.co.uk and check what you find with omio.com. Also, triple-check with trenitalia.com and bahn.com. WE’RE HERE TO HELP Please send holiday questions to holidayplanner@dailymail.co.uk or write to Daily Mail Travel, Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT with contact details. 
