brexit
{ By James Mills for MailOnline   Published:  15:48, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8037837/Legs-Boris-Johnsons-EU-socks-run-away-Brexit-lampooned-annual-German-carnival.html }
A street carnival in Germany today featured a series of satirical floats lampooning political leaders from around the world including Boris Johnson and Donald Trump. The annual Rose Monday parade attracted thousands of spectators who came to see the hotly-anticipated floats designed each year by Jacques Tilly, Germany's leading carnival float designer.  Tilly, 56, admits that his countrymen are not known for their grasp of humour and says his main influences are classic British comedies including Spitting Image, Monty Python and Little Britain. He keeps his designs a closely guarded secret each year until they are unveiled at the famous carnival in Dusseldorf, an annual event that coincides with parades held in towns and cities across Germany to mark the end of 'carnival season' which runs from November 11 until Ash Wednesday. This year's events were overshadowed today when at least 15 people were injured after a car ploughed into crowds at a parade in the town of Volkmarsen. Witnesses said the Mercedes swerved around safety barriers before driving 'full speed' into the crowd. The driver was arrested at the scene. Thousands of spectators gathered to watch the Dusseldorf parade with its satirical floats which included a figure of Prime Minister Boris Johnson with kilt-clad legs and EU socks marching away from him. Another depicted US President Donald Trump snuggling up with Iran's Ayatollah Sayyid Ali Hosseini Khamenei with the slogan: 'Make love, not war.' Facebook, German far right politicians and Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg were also the butt of jokes. Tilly said: 'Germany and humour, it's complicated. We have always been very obedient to authority. Humour is always also criticism, and criticism has always been regarded here as corrosive to the state.  'You were always labelled as a social pest when you criticised anyone like the Kaiser or the Führer.' He told The Times: 'The Germans have only just learnt that criticism is a crucial part of forging public opinion. That's new and it's only happened in the past few decades.  'The Brits have always been ahead of us there. I try to go in the direction of British humour to bring in a hardness, an uncompromising quality, a courage that you hardly ever get here. Things are always a bit tamer in Germany.'    
