brexit
{ By David Wilcock, Whitehall Correspondent For Mailonline   Published:  12:02, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7999805/You-tanked-economy-Labour-leadership-rivals-blasted-TV-election-manifesto.html }
Labour's leadership rivals were eviscerated live on television today over the party's 'joke' election manifesto, as a former voter told them: 'You would have tanked the economy.' Sir Keir Starmer, Rebecca Long-Bailey, Lisa Nandy and Emily Thornberry took part in a live hustings on the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme this morning. And they were taken to task by 'Jay', a former Labour voter who backed Boris Johnson's Tories fore the first time in December. He tore into Jeremy Corbyn's manifesto and also caused front-runner Sir Keir to squirm as he said he backed the shadow Brexit secretary because he was the most like Tony Blair. Sir Keir, who has veered his campaign to the left in recent days in an apparent bid to keep Corbynistas on side with his campaign, looked less than happy at the comparison. On the programme, Jay told the quartet he had voted Tory for the first time in December. When asked by Ms Derbyshire what had driven his decision he told the MPs: 'Your manifesto was an absolute joke. An absolute disgrace. 'If they had just put a manifesto that we would have reversed Tory cuts, you would have done so much better 'You were (offering) free internet, you're nationalising everything - you would have tanked the economy.  'I have no trust in Jeremy Corbyn, I have no trust in Corbynism, the party is so far to the left now that is falling off the scale now. 'Tony Blair would have won that election and that is why I back Sir Keir because I think you are the only one who can put the party back in the centre and unite the left and the right.' It came after Ms Nandy said the party under Mr Corbyn had become disconnected from its voters on issues including tackling crime. She used a radio interview to say the 'top of the party' had become 'deeply disconnected' from the grassroots. Ms Nandy said Labour had to be 'loud and clear' in showing that it understood the issues that 'really matter to people'. She also defended her stance on trans rights, backing a 'tough pledge' which calls on the party to expel 'transphobic' members and describes campaigns including Woman's Place UK as 'trans-exclusionist hate groups'. The Wigan MP said Labour had largely ignored the issue of crime beyond talking about the scale of cuts to the police. 'We just barely talked about crime over the last few years and particularly during the general election, and it was extraordinary because in every part of this country this is the thing that is keeping people awake at night, that is destroying lives and destroying communities,' she told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. She accused Home Secretary Priti Patel of 'chasing headlines' by advocating ever-tougher sentences without reforming prisons and said the issue of the criminal justice system should be natural territory for Labour. 'The fact that we weren't talking about it I think shows how deeply disconnected the top of the party has become from our grassroots,' she said. 'Labour has to become that party again that understands the issues that really matter to people and is speaking about them loud and clear.'     
