brexit
{ By Jason Groves Political Editor For The Daily Mail   Published:  01:03, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7997977/Anne-Marie-Trevelyan-lead-raft-new-female-ministers-lined-jobs.html }
Brexiteer Anne-Marie Trevelyan will lead a wave of new female ministers as Boris Johnson shuffles his team. Mrs Trevelyan, a junior defence minister, will be promoted to the Cabinet as the Prime Minister tries to maintain the number of women at the top table. Last night she was tipped for a possible move to become international development secretary or even to replace her boss, Ben Wallace, whose style as Defence Secretary has irritated some of the PM’s most senior aides. Mr Wallace, the PM’s long-time friend, is battling to save his job.  Speaking at a Nato meeting in Brussels, he admitted reshuffles could be ‘brutal’ but said he hoped his military experience and the fact he is a northern MP would help keep him in post. Mr Wallace will not attend the Munich Security Conference tomorrow.  But one Whitehall source dismissed speculation this meant he was going to be sacked, saying: ‘Quite the opposite.’  Reports last month suggested the PM was willing to jettison as many as six female Cabinet ministers. But he appears to have backed away to avoid allegations of sexism.  A Government source also said the PM was aiming to have a ‘50/50 gender balance’ among the 26 most junior ministerial positions. Culture Secretary Nicky Morgan is standing down and both Business Secretary Andrea Leadsom and Work and Pensions Secretary Therese Coffey appear vulnerable.  Mr Johnson will begin firing unwanted ministers at 8am. Prisons minister Lucy Frazer is expected to get a Cabinet call-up, possibly to replace the Attorney General Geoffrey Cox.  Former ministers Maria Miller and Penny Mordaunt have been tipped for recalls while International Development Secretary Alok Sharma is set for promotion.  Cabinet Office minister Oliver Dowden will also get a full Cabinet post.  Former Brexit minister Suella Braverman will return to Government, as will Remainer Gillian Keegan. Dominic Cummings wanted to slash the size of the Cabinet and axe a series of Whitehall departments. But his advice appears to have been rejected.  
