{ By Danyal Hussain For Mailonline   Published:  20:18, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7996599/Home-Office-tells-Italian-man-101-parents-confirm-identity.html }
A 101-year-old Italian man was told by the Home Office that his parents had to confirm his identity if he wanted to stay in the country, despite living in London since 1966.    Giovanni Palmeiro applied for the EU settlement scheme at an advice centre in Islington, north London but was told by the volunteer helping him that he needed to provide details about his parents.   The Home Office's computer system appeared to mistakenly take the great-grandfather's birth year as being 2019 - rather than 1919.   The volunteer, Dimitri Scarlato, scanned Mr Palmeiro's passport into the EU settled status app to share the biometric data with the Home Office, which led to the computer glitch.  Mr Scarlato, an activist who works with campaign groups that help people of Italian descent, told the Guardian: 'I phoned the Home Office and it took two calls and a half an hour for them to understand it was the app's fault not mine.' The Home Office accepted the mistake and took Mr Palmiero's actual identity details over the phone.   Last Thursday, he was told he could resume his application as a 101-year-old and not as a one-year-old. However, he was then asked to prove that he'd been a resident in the country for five years - even though he'd been living in the UK since 1966. The Home Office is thought to have access to national insurance and tax records, which means it can resolve issues of residency itself. Mr Palmiero is believed to have worked at a restaurant in Piccadilly after coming to the UK and, up until the age of 94, in a fish and chip shop every day 'until 11pm at night'. He has been married to his wife Lucia, 92, for 75 years and they have four children, eight grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren. His son Assuntino said: 'It's like a humiliation, you've been here so long and then all of a sudden this happens.  'He is not going to be chucked out, but people of his age should not have to go through this process. 'They say you have to prove you have been here that long, but come on, they have HMRC records, council tax records. My parents are being sent their pensions, so how come they can't find him on the system? If they wanted to check, they could easily.' Mr Scarlato later told an online newspaper Londra Italia the family had subsequently received an apology 'for the inconvenience' from the Home Office.  However, they are still waiting for Palmiero's settled status to be approved. The Home Office said: 'When Mr Palmiero's case was raised our dedicated EU settlement scheme team contacted him and those supporting him to assist with his application,' it said.  
