{ By Matt Hughes For The Daily Mail   Published:  22:30, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyunion/article-7992889/Brexit-puts-Premiership-Rugby-Kolpak-players-risk-clubs-look-increase-overseas-player-quota.html }
Premiership clubs are seeking to increase the overseas player quota next season to offset the loss of Kolpak stars after Brexit.  From December 31 a number of players from South Africa, Fiji, Tonga and Samoa will lose their right to work in the UK as the 2003 EU Association Agreement will not apply at the end of the post-Brexit transition period. Worcester have 12 Kolpak players in their squad this season, and London Irish and Sale are not far behind with 10 and nine each respectively.  Under the existing rules Premiership clubs are limited to having two overseas players in their 23-man match-day squads, and over the course of the 22-match campaign they must have an average of at least 15 English qualified players in their squad to qualify for a bonus paid by the RFU as part of the Professional Game Agreement. A number of clubs are understood to have lobbied Premiership Rugby Limited for the right to play more foreign stars next season, and they have passed on their request to the RFU, who control player registration.  The issue of post-Brexit immigration is acute for rugby due to the high numbers of Kolpak players and the fact that the end of the transition period comes in the middle of the season.  The clubs are confident of receiving a sympathetic hearing from the RFU, who are liaising with the Government and have written into their rulebook that Kolpak players will retain their status for the rest of this season.  Although the RFU's priority is to ensure a large number of England-qualified players are available to national coach Eddie Jones, they also need to preserve the Premiership's value. 'Player registration rules sit with the RFU and we have confirmed that there will be no changes this season,' an RFU spokesperson said.  'We are working with key stakeholders to understand what the transition arrangements and new processes will be. We will have time to work through any implications for next season.'  The RFU's response to Brexit is likely to differ significantly from that of the FA, who are seeking to use the country's departure from the EU to increase the quota of home-grown players in each 25-man Premier League squad from eight to 12.  Unlike in football there is no shortage of England-qualified players in rugby, with 70 per cent of Premiership players eligible, in contrast to 30 per cent of the Premier League available to Gareth Southgate.  The ECB are also planning to increase the overseas player quota in county cricket from one to two. 
