{ By Adrian Kajumba and Sami Mokbel for the Daily Mail    Published:  22:30, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7992703/Premier-League-clubs-target-English-Football-League-talent-Brexit.html }
Football League clubs fear being stripped of their best young talent due to post-Brexit homegrown quota restriction proposals. Premier League clubs are bracing themselves for changes to the current quota regulations that state at least eight players in the first team's 25-man squad must be classed as homegrown following the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union. Clubs, as a general rule, will be prevented from signing overseas players under the age of 18 once the Brexit transition period elapses on December 31. In the pre-Brexit era, clubs were permitted to sign under 18 players from other EU countries, despite FIFA rules prohibiting such international transfers. However, Sportsmail understands that even once the transition period is over, certain trade agreements could still permit the arrival of under 18s from certain European countries. Those regulations will have a significant impact on the way a number of top-flight clubs, who have used the EU countenance to circumvent the world governing body's regulations, operate in the transfer market. Beyond the regulations affecting the signing of under-18 players, a number of other possible solutions have also been discussed. As reported by Sportsmail last month, the FA, whose focus is to ensure more playing time for English talent, want to reduce the number of non-homegrown players in Premier League club's 25-man squads by four, from 17 to 13 in a bid to make space for more domestic talent. Brexit could result in more players needing work permits to play in English football. Another suggestion has been to scrap the criteria required to qualify for one, which include the percentage of games a player has played for their national team in the previous two years, but also, again, lower the number of non-homegrown players clubs are allowed to register. The idea of introducing a cap on foreign players allowed on a club's books across all of their squads has even been mooted. But Sportsmail understands the prospect of restricting foreign transfers among English football's elite has sparked concern towards the lower echelons of the football pyramid and at academy level. EFL clubs and those with lower category academies fear the Premier League's bigger sides will merely switch focus to the best domestic talent outside the top-flight and at youth level if such restrictions are imposed. Given the financial might of England's top level clubs, there are understandable concerns that they will be powerless to stop their best youngsters from leaving. Discussions between the FA and the Premier League about how to implement new quota rules following Brexit are ongoing and, so far, nothing has been agreed. Despite that, sources claim there is a willingness from all parties to make the process as smooth as possible, despite the obvious reluctance from clubs to agree to stricter quota restrictions. Sportsmail understands the changes introduced that affect first-team quotas are likely to be introduced on a staggered basis, giving clubs time to comply with new guidelines, though clubs' efforts to be as prepared as possible by finding out what changes could be on the way have intensified since the UK left the EU on January 31. However, there are particular concerns about the impact the introduction of regulations that are too strict could have on the Premier League both in terms of quality and financial, if any Brexit-enforced changes lead to fewer of the world's biggest names plying their trade in England's top flight. One source said: 'They have to be very careful they don't just destroy what the Premier League is. Everybody wants to see homegrown players in the team but they also want to see the top players playing here.' 
