{ By Jack Maidment, Deputy Political Editor For Mailonline   Published:  10:02, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7990567/EU-chief-Ursula-von-der-Leyen-takes-swipe-Boris-Johnsons-Brexit-plans.html }
Ursula von der Leyen today mocked Boris Johnson's claim the UK could opt for an Australia-style trading arrangement with the EU as she said even Australia does not like the deal it currently has with the bloc. Mr Johnson has told Brussels that post-Brexit Britain would prosper with either a Canada-style free trade agreement or a much looser relationship with the EU like Australia's.  Many in the EU believe an 'Australia-style' agreement is simply 'code for no deal'.  Ms von der Leyen said the EU 'does not have a trade agreement with Australia' and the two sides are exploring how to improve their relationship.  She insisted that if the UK wants similar trading terms to what Australia has now 'we are fine with that'.  However, the president of the European Commission urged Mr Johnson not to 'settle for less' during talks and insisted the EU wants a deal which is as 'ambitious' as possible.  Michel Barnier, the EU's chief Brexit negotiator, today warned that business between the UK and the continent will not be status quo after the transition period ends if the two sides fail to agree a trade deal.  Mr Barnier suggested that tariffs and quotas would be immediately imposed on all British products. He said: 'The opening of our markets, access to data and equivalence for financial services will be proportional to the commitments made to respect a true level playing field, regulatory coherence, protection of citizens and financial stability.'  Mr Barnier said that 'if we fail to reach agreement' by the end of the year then 'there will be quotas and tariffs on all British produce'.   He predicted trade talks will be 'difficult, very difficult' and that both sides should be 'ready for every option, including the one without a basic deal before December 31'.   Addressing the European Parliament, Ms von der Leyen noted that the UK had suggested it would be willing to trade with the EU on basic World Trade Organisation terms.  But she warned: 'I was a little bit surprised to hear the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom speak about the Australian model. 'But the European Union does not have a trade agreement with Australia. We are currently trading on WTO terms. 'And if this is the British choice, well, we are fine with that without any question. 'But in fact, we just are in the moment where we [are] agreeing with Australia that we must end this situation and we are working on a trade deal with them. 'Of course the UK can decide to settle for less but I personally believe that we should be way more ambitious.'  The UK left the EU at the end of January with the two sides entering into a standstill transition period during which they will try to hammer out the terms of their future partnership.  That transition period will end in December this year and Mr Johnson has made clear he will not agree to any extension.   He has stressed that the end of 2020 should be viewed as a hard deadline for talks and he used a big speech last week to repeat his stance that the UK will be willing to walk away without a deal. He said: 'The question is whether we agree a trading relationship with the EU comparable to Canada's – or more like Australia's. And I have no doubt that in either case the UK will prosper.'  Mr Johnson's preference is for a Canada-style deal but if that proves impossible then he would settle for something akin to Australia's.   Officials in Brussels do not believe there is enough time before the end of the year to finalise a comprehensive trade deal.  Senior figures have suggested prioritising some issues and leaving others to be resolved after transition has ended. This approach has been rejected by the UK. Britain is hoping to negotiate new trade deals with the United States, Japan, Australia and other nations alongside an agreement with the EU. Ms von der Leyen's intervention came as Chancellor Sajid Javid set out his vision for UK-EU financial services cooperation for the years ahead.  Writing in the City AM newspaper, Mr Javid said the Treasury 'will come forward with a white paper in the spring on the future of the UK financial sector'.  Mr Javid repeated the government's desire to achieve 'equivalence' with the EU in the financial sector.  This would mean UK rules are considered sufficiently compatible with EU rules in order to maintain current access to the EU market. However, the EU has ruled out 'equivalence'. The bloc is adamant that non-members of the bloc cannot enjoy the same access to the single market as members.  Michel Barnier, the EU's chief Brexit negotiator, told the European Parliament today: 'There must be no illusion on this issue: there will be no general, global or permanent equivalence on financial services.' This afternoon, the Prime Minister's official spokesman said: 'We are seeking a trade agreement with the EU which is a Canada style free trade agreement.'   
