{ By Sebastian Shakespeare for the Daily Mail   Published:  00:55, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7989235/SEBASTIAN-SHAKESPEARE-Amber-Rudds-book-set-reveal-no-love-lost-Boris-Johnson.html }
Tin hats on! It promises to be the first revelatory memoir of the Boris Johnson premiership. Former Home Secretary Amber Rudd is writing a book which will lift the lid on sexism in politics, Brexit rows and how MPs work together. Provisionally entitled Don't Be Put Off, it will also be a call to arms for young people to get more engaged in politics. 'It's a blast at the snowflake generation for not getting more involved,' I'm told. There is certainly no love lost between Remainer Rudd and Brexiteer Boris. She campaigned for Remain in the 2016 EU referendum, famously telling a live TV debate that Johnson 'is the life and soul of the party, but he isn't the man you want driving you home at the end of the evening'. Rudd quit Boris's cabinet as Work And Pensions Secretary last September and resigned the Conservative whip in protest against his decision to expel 21 Tory MPs for rebelling against the prospect of a no-deal Brexit.  Last October she announced that she would be standing down as MP for Hastings and Rye at the General Election. Rudd's literary agent, Caroline Michel, says the book will be a humdinger. 'It will surprise people,' she tells me. It's not what they will expect and it will be a brilliant book.' Rudd, 56, was once married to the writer and critic, the late AA Gill, and has already shown some literary prowess herself. In 2008, two years before she entered Parliament, she entered a sexual health poetry competition. Her ode to safe sex — Loving You Is So Exciting — was such a hit with the judges that she won joint first prize in the over-25s category: a £50 voucher donated by the local chlamydia screening clinic. She is so well-connected that back in the Nineties, film director and producer Richard Curtis recruited her to supply extras when he was making the Four Weddings And A Funeral classic. Rudd arranged for posh friends to be paid £100 a day to mill around in 'smart wedding outfits' during film shoots. Besides re-inventing herself as a writer, former investment banker Rudd is also following her brother into PR. She has been hired as a senior adviser by Teneo — a global consulting, strategy and communications firm — to offer 'strategic advice'. Brother Roland founded PR company Finsbury in 1994. She's got the hair, she's got the dress Emma Corrin was almost entirely unknown until it was announced that she would portray Diana, Princess of Wales, in the fourth season of The Crown. But the ingénue actress, 24, perfectly recreated the moment when Diana, wearing a Victor Edelstein gown, dazzled New Yorkers at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 1989 (with scenes filmed in Manchester standing in for the Big Apple). The blonde, who attended Woldingham, the £37,000-a-year Catholic girls' school in Surrey, has always seemed pre-destined for the part: even before landing the role, she named her dog, a cockapoo, 'Spencer'. Bill back on Susanna's sofa When Bill Turnbull appeared on Good Morning Britain last autumn to talk about his prostate cancer, he joked that he would like to replace Piers Morgan on the ITV sofa. Some executive on the channel must have taken him seriously, for I can disclose that former Strictly contestant Bill is to stand in for Piers when the outspoken presenter goes on a week's holiday later this month. It will be the first time that Bill has hosted a programme alongside Susanna Reid since she left BBC Breakfast for ITV in 2014. They had co-presented the show for two years. 'I think Susanna's trying to make me jealous,' Piers tells me. Bill, who left BBC Breakfast in 2016 after 15 years, was spotted in the GMB studios yesterday, learning the ropes. Victoria won't be needled over those tattoos Heavily tattooed Olympic gold medallist Victoria Pendleton admits her love of body art isn't to everyone's taste. 'I was stopped by a older lovely lady at a horse-racing event, who pleaded with me to stop getting tattoos,' admits the 39-year-old cyclist and equestrian.  'They are not ladylike . . . what will they look like when you're 80?' she said. 'Well, if I reach 80, I'm pretty sure I won't give a damn about what anyone thinks about the ink. I'll be too busy making the most of life. 'I don't think having tattoos makes me any less respectable, or any less thoughtful or conscientious or kind. I'm still the same outrageously normal girl from Stotfold in Beds who looks up to the kind and generous qualities of her mum.' If he's hoping to keep the chances of his peerage alive, it was not the most opportune time for John Bercow to confess his shortcomings.  But the former Speaker has never been a stickler for tact. Bercow was giving the keynote address at Funds Congress, a conference for asset managers, at Westminster's QEII Centre late last week, where he admitted: 'I was never a great team player because I always wanted to be team leader.'  He also confessed that he 'would have made a lousy Prime Minister'. How magnanimous. Bad nerves? Perry has a tipple for it Cross-dressing ceramicist Grayson Perry admits he's broken his long-held habit of ditching booze as the year starts, because alcohol soothes his nerves. 'I used to give up alcohol for three months of the year, from New Year to my birthday,' he tells me at the Marc Jacobs and Magda Archer collaboration launch party. 'I did it for 20 years. But I'm not doing it this year because I found it was too much. My anxiety got too bad. Drinking helps. I'm a six till nine alcoholic.'  TV presenter Alan Titchmarsh is a king in his own household.  'They are starting to know I am famous,' he says of his four grandchildren.  'The eldest, the seven-year-old, came up to me a few weeks ago and said curiously: "Grandpa, you're Alan Titchmarsh, aren't you?! and I replied: !Yes, I am,! and then he went away. I thought that was marvellous.' 
