{ By Caitlyn Becker For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:06, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7988165/Brad-Pitt-reveals-real-work-acceptance-speeches-tapped-David-Fincher-help.html }
Even a star as big as Brad Pitt gets 'nervous' when it comes to acceptance speeches.  The 56-year-old has swept award's season with his critically acclaimed role in Once Upon a Time In Hollywood and his speeches have lauded nearly as much praise as his acting. Brad revealed that he puts 'real work' into what he says on stage when he wins and even utilized his famous friends, including Fight Club director David Fincher for help.  'Historically, I've always been really tentative about speeches. They make me nervous,' Brad said in the press room after his big win on Sunday night. 'I know that sounds antithetical, given the profession I've chosen, but that's not necessarily my thing,' he added.  'So this round, I figured if we were going to do this, I'd put some real work into it and try to get comfortable, and this is a result of that. I'm definitely writing.'  Pitt explained that the speeches needed to be written 'from the heart' and he used some of his 'very funny friends' to help.  When he spoke with Variety on the red carpet, the star revealed that comedians Jim Jefferies and Bob Oschack helped him with some of the funnier bits but so did David Fincher. 'My man Fincher, we trade barbs every week,' Brad told Variety.  On Sunday, Pitt took home the Best Supporting Actor Oscar at the 92nd Academy Awards and came through with a sweet speech that he dedicated to his children - Maddox, 18, Pax, 16, Zahara, 15, Shiloh, 13, Vivienne and Knox, 11. Brad got political at the beginning of his speech, joking that he was told he had 45 seconds to speak on speech, which was more than 'the Senate gave [former national security adviser] John Bolton this week.' The joke drew cheers and laughter from the audience.  'I'm thinking maybe Quentin does a movie about it, and in the end, the adults do the right thing.' The camera cut to the director, who flashed a smile. Pitt called the director an 'original' and 'one of a kind', as he thanked him for creating his character Cliff Booth the way he did. 'I'm not one to look back but this has made me do so and I think of my folks taking me to the drive-in to see Butch and Sundance, and loading up my car and moving out here... 'Geena and Ridley giving me my first shot, to all the wonderful people I've met along the way to stand here now. Once upon a time in Hollywood, ain't that the truth!'  'This is for my kids, who color everything I do. I adore you!' the actor said, blowing a kiss and heading off stage. Prior to the Oscars, the Hollywood heartthrob sparked speculation that he had hired help to craft his speeches after delivering a widely-lauded address at the Golden Globes on January 5.  Vulture reported that one speechwriting agency has confirmed that the actor's reps reached out about 'engaging their services' prior to the awards season.  The agency - who wished to remain anonymous - did not reveal whether they reached a deal with star.  At the Globes, his humorous speech made headlines after he specifically thanked his Once Upon A Time co-star Leonard DiCaprio, before making a witty reference to the end of DiCaprio's most famous film - Titanic. 'I would have shared the raft with you,' Pitt quipped. He also joked about his life in the tabloids, stating: 'I wanted to bring my mom, but any woman I stand next to they say I'm dating. It'd just be awkward!' At the SAG Awards, Brad was once again in fine form as he collected an award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role. Looking lovingly at the award, he wisecracked: 'I've got to add this to my Tinder profile'. He then went on to poke fun at director Quentin Tarantino's penchant for filming the bare feet of famous actresses. 'Quentin has separated more women from their shoes than the TSA,' Pitt joked. Meanwhile, the actor managed to leave crowds laughing even when he wasn't available to accept one award in person. The star was absent from the BAFTAs where he won a gong for his role in Once Upon A Time. Co-star Margot Robbie accepted the statuette on his behalf, and read out a humorous speech purported to have been written by Pitt. The timely address referenced both Brexit and Megxit and went down well with the British audience.  'Hey Britain – I heard you just became single, welcome to the club,' Robbie read from Pitt's note.  The actor also couldn't resist also getting in a quip about Meghan Markle and Prince Harry, who had recently fled the United Kingdom for North America. Robbie explained: 'Brad's going to name this award 'Harry' because he's really excited about bringing it back to the States with him.' Prince William and wife Kate Middleton were seen cackling at the joke from their seats in the theater.   
