{ By David Wilcock, Whitehall Correspondent For Mailonline   Published:  15:00, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7987345/Nicola-Sturgeon-defends-SNP-Brexit-love-heart-stunt-Brussels-EU-calls-POLICE.html }
Scottish First Minister defended a Brexit Day stunt carried out by the SNP today - after it was revealed the party has been reported to Belgian police by the EU. The Scottish nationalists projected what Ms Sturgeon said was 'a really positive show of love and solidarity from Scotland to Europe' on the side of the European Commission's Berlaymont headquarters on January 31. But the Commission confirmed this morning that it had not given permission for the love heart to be beamed onto the face to the office and had therefore informed Brussels' city police. It was an embarrassing situation for Ms Sturgeon, who was in the Belgian capital today to woo EU leaders and discuss her plans for Scotland's future. Speaking at the European Policy Centre think tank she said: 'I have not met anybody here today who has been particularly upset or at all upset by it.   'It's not there first time a message has been projected onto the Berleymont and I'm sure it won't be the last. 'Whether it is the commission building or House of Commons and Big Ben in London or the Scottish Parliamenty in Edinburgh, it is quite a common and well-tried way of sending a message and making a point. 'It was a very strong point of solitary from Scotland  to the European Union.'  It came after an SNP MP who won a landmark legal case against Boris Johnson's prorogation of Parliament warned he faces legal action if he blocks a new vote on Scottish independence. The (SNP) wants a second referendum to be held now that Britain has left the European Union, as a majority north of the border with England wanted to stay in the bloc. The Prime Minister has refused to transfer powers from London to the devolved government in Edinburgh under the Scotland Act for a new vote to be held. But home affairs spokeswoman Joanna Cherry suggested the Scottish Parliament should support a non-binding consultative referendum, then let judges decide if it had the power to do so under the legislation. 'Boris Johnson should be put on notice that we have options and we are not afraid to push forward,' She wrote on Twitter on Sunday. 'The balance of legal opinion is that we might well win any court challenge & I don't believe that losing would set us back any further than where we are just now.'  Some 55 percent of Scots voted to remain part of the United Kingdom in 2014, seemingly taking the issue off the table in what was described as a 'once-in-a-generation' decision. But nationalists argue Brexit represents a material change in Scotland's constitutional arrangements with the UK government in London.   
