{ By David Wilcock, Whitehall Correspondent For Mailonline   Published:  10:08, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7986529/Keir-Starmer-supporters-attack-Labour-gangsters-trying-help-Rebecca-Long-Bailey-leader.html }
Supporters of Sir Keir Starmer launched a furious attack on the Labour Party machine today, accusing it of a 'stitch-up' designed to help his Corbynista rival Rebecca-Long Bailey.  They lashed out at 'gangsters' in the party trying to influence the vote after the shadow Brexit secretary's team was accused of hacking data on the day his mother-in-law died. Two of the front-runner's staff were reported to the Information Commissioner for allegedly infiltrating the party's membership data yesterday, during a weekend when he halted campaigning as he supported his family. Sir Keir's team said the claims from party officials relating to its Dialogue 'phone-banking' system were 'utter nonsense'. Separately, a Labour MP who is not part of his campaign said it was 'the stitch-up we always knew was coming.'  'They are trying to use the full force and weight of the party machine to skew the result,' they told Politico. 'Only under the toxic culture of this regime could serious allegations against RLB mean the whistleblowers are the ones reported, while there is no response to the original complaint.  'These people are gangsters and they're actively trying to favor one candidate over all others.'  Labour's general secretary Jennie Formby has written to all candidates following the reports about alleged misuse of membership data and party systems. It is understood Labour is conducting 'a thorough investigation' into the claims. It has reported allegations of data breaches in the party's leadership election to the Information Commissioner. A party spokesman said: 'The Labour Party takes its legal responsibilities for data protection - and the security and integrity of its data and systems - extremely seriously. 'We have written to all leadership candidates to remind them of their obligations under the law and to seek assurances that membership data will not be misused.' Sir Keir's campaign has said it is 'scurrilous' to suggest they breached data rules. Campaign vice-chairman David Lammy told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: 'It didn't happen. There was no data-scraping. I can say categorically that this did not happen and it's denied fundamentally. 'There was no attempt by the campaign to do this - it's scurrilous to suggest so and I'm quite sure that the Information Commissioner will find the allegations completely untrue.' The Tottenham MP did not link the allegation to the rival campaign of Rebecca Long-Bailey when asked but said the report was 'disappointing'. 'I hope this isn't now a scramble to the bottom of the barrel because there's not been any scraping of data, it feels more about the barrel really,' he said. 'As I say there's no substance at all to these allegations.'  A spokesman for Ms Long-Bailey attacked suggestions they were involved efforts to smear Sir Keir and said she was 'running a totally clean campaign'. He added: 'The investigation into Keir Starmer’s campaign over an alleged data breach should not be allowed to distract from a moment of significant importance in determining the future direction of our party.  'As Rebecca’s campaign has said previously, the accessibility of members’ data stemmed from a failure to close Dialogue at the end of the general election campaign.' 
