{ By James Tapsfield, Political Editor For Mailonline and Jack Maidment, Deputy Political Editor For Mailonline   Published:  08:35, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8037113/Priti-Patel-allies-rage-sexist-spiteful-Home-Office-briefings.html }
Boris Johnson voiced 'full confidence' in Priti Patel today as her allies launched a furious counter-offensive at a wave of hostile briefing. The PM strongly backed the Home Secretary in the wake of claims that security chiefs do not trust her with some intelligence, and that she has created an 'atmosphere of fear' among officials. Tories also praised Ms Patel for doing a 'brilliant job' as she came to the Commons to spell out the government's post-Brexit immigration plans. She defiantly insisted her focus was to 'deliver on the people's priorities'. Meanwhile, the UK's most senior civil servant, Sir Mark Sedwill, has read the riot act to those attacking the minister anonymously. He warned that the briefings 'besmirch this country’s hard-won reputation for good governance'.   Ms Patel has been facing a backlash after allegations emerged that she tried to oust her department's most senior civil servant, permanent secretary, Sir Philip Rutnam.  No10 said Ms Patel's relationship with MI5 - which has dismissed the rumours - was 'strong and close' and 'baseless claims to the contrary are wrong' - although it does not appear there will be a leak inquiry.  'The Prime Minister has full confidence in the Home Secretary and the vital work she is doing,' the spokesman added.  Asked if Mr Johnson had confidence in Sir Philip, the spokesman said: ‘The Prime Minister has full confidence in the civil service which is working very hard to deliver on the government’s priorities.’   The Home Office tried to defuse the row yesterday by issuing a joint statement from Ms Patel and Sir Philip.   It said: 'The Home Secretary and permanent secretary are deeply concerned about the number of false allegations appearing in the media. 'They are focused on delivering on the Home Office's hugely important agenda, which includes creating an immigration system that works for the UK, putting more police on the streets and keeping the public safe from terrorism.'  Dear Colleagues, You will have seen recent stories of tensions within Whitehall, sparked by unattributable briefings and leaks to the media. This besmirches this country’s hard-won reputation for good governance and is a distraction from the vital work of the thousands of civil servants delivering the Government’s agenda and the public services on which our citizens rely. Candour, confidentiality and courtesy between Ministers, special advisers and civil servants are crucial to the trust and confidence on which good governance depends. Civil servants should at all times be confident they can give honest, impartial and objective advice on which Ministers can rely. Both should be confident that this advice, and any debate that surrounds it, will remain private and that everyone will at all times adhere to the high standards set out in the Civil Service, Special Adviser and Ministerial Codes. I know that the whole Civil Service is committed to delivering the Government’s agenda and to our enduring work to protect and promote the interests of our citizens, communities and country. Mark Sedwill  In the Commons this evening, Ms Patel updated MPs on the immigration proposals, which were formally published during the parliamentary recess. Without referring to the ongoing row, she said: 'We are a government that will deliver on the people's priorities.' Former Cabinet ministers David David and Iain Duncan Smith heaped praise on her in the chamber. Mr Davis said she was 'excellent', while Mr Duncan Smith said she was performing 'brilliantly'.  In a letter circulated to all civil servants today, Cabinet Secretary Sir Mark said: 'You will have seen recent stories of tensions within Whitehall, sparked by unattributable briefings and leaks to the media. 'This besmirches this country’s hard-won reputation for good governance and is a distraction from the vital work of the thousands of civil servants delivering the Government’s agenda and the public services on which our citizens rely. 'Candour, confidentiality and courtesy between Ministers, special advisers and civil servants are crucial to the trust and confidence on which good governance depends. 'Civil servants should at all times be confident they can give honest, impartial and objective advice on which Ministers can rely. 'Both should be confident that this advice, and any debate that surrounds it, will remain private and that everyone will at all times adhere to the high standards set out in the Civil Service, Special Adviser and Ministerial Codes.'  Earlier, a series of Ms Patel's supporters took to the airwaves to deny the stinging claims. Former Cabinet minister Theresa Villiers said she believed Ms Patel was the victim of 'misogyny'. 'I'm sick of spiteful briefings against women in high public office. It happens again and again,' she said. Home Office minister James Brokenshire said Ms Patel is 'demanding' but dismissed the idea she was a bully. 'Yes, she is demanding, but in that role you have to be because you are dealing with some of the most sensitive, some of the most challenging things that you have to deal with across Government,' he told Sky News.   The latest escalation in briefings yesterday prompted the security services to take the highly unusual move of denying that it was freezing out Ms Patel. Despite this public show of support, sources close to the furious Cabinet minister said she had instructed the Cabinet Office to launch a leak probe to unearth the sources. The Cabinet Office is seeking a new civil servant to oversee human resources policy for ministerial special advisers.  A job advert placed on the Government's website calls for an 'HR policy lead' who will play a 'key role in establishing the cross-government special adviser HR function'.  The 'high-profile and stretching role' - with a salary of up to £60,635 - would see the successful candidate being asked to 'revise and embed a full suite of HR policies, processes and principles ensuring they are fit for purpose'.  It follows a series of concerns about the treatment of special advisers - known as spads - after an adviser to former chancellor Sajid Javid, Sonia Khan, was escorted out of Downing Street by police officers after being sacked by Dominic Cummings.  The PM's chief adviser was challenged at an internal meeting of aides in No10 earlier this month, with one Spad saying it was 'unkind' of him to say half of them would be fired.  According to The Times, Helen MacNamara, the government's director of propriety and ethics, rejected the request. However, in a fresh sign of tensions, Cabinet Office sources were adamant that a request had not been received either formally or informally. Ms Patel has faced a wave of negative briefings after allegations that she had tried to remove her most senior civil servant – permanent secretary Sir Philip – following a series of rows. Allies of the Home Secretary were forced to deny claims that she had 'bullied and belittled' officials, made unreasonable demands or created an 'atmosphere of fear'. According to The Times, Sir Philip has raised concerns with the Cabinet Office about the minister.  But friends of Ms Patel are thought to have regarded the clashes as about nothing out of the ordinary.  Ms Villiers told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: 'I don't believe these allegations against Priti Patel. I think she is a highly effective Home Secretary. 'I think whoever is making these briefings should stop it.' Asked if she thought the attacks were based on misogyny, Ms Villiers said: 'Yes I do. I think that there are clearly people who are out to damage the Home Secretary.  'I think that is unjustified. I'm absolutely certain she is probably tough and demanding on her civil servants, but I don't believe for a moment that anything inappropriate or anything resembling bullying would have taken place.'  Mr Brokenshire told Sky News' Kay Burley show: 'I think the Home Secretary is absolutely focused on the public good, the agenda that we've set around policing, on immigration and indeed around counter-terrorism and security.'  He described the reports as 'absolute nonsense', but conceded that there is 'huge frustration' across the Home Office around some of the 'false assertions that have been made publicly'.  Another ally said: 'Priti is absolutely livid. The blob is trying to kill her. She's determined to get to the bottom of it.' Spy chiefs rebutted allegations made over the weekend that they do not trust the Home Secretary. The whispering campaign against Ms Patel stepped up a gear at the weekend as anonymous sources reportedly claimed she was being kept out of the loop by intelligence officials. In a poisonous briefing, one official claimed: 'The spooks find her extremely difficult to deal with. She doesn't grasp the subtleties of intelligence. 'It's not black and white. They don't have confidence in her abilities.'  Sir Philip Rutnam is one of the most senior civil servants in Whitehall.  He joined the Home Office as permanent secretary - the top civil servant role in each department - in April 2017 having previously done the same job at the Department for Transport for five years. However, his time at the Home Office has proved to be controversial because he was in post during the Windrush scandal.  He faced calls in November 2018 to resign over it with Tory London mayor candidate Shaun Bailey claiming the mandarin needed to step down to 'restore confidence' in the Home Office.   Amber Rudd resigned as home secretary in April 2018 because of the controversy which saw some migrants from Commonwealth countries who came to the UK from the late 1970s to 1973 being wrongly declared illegal immigrants.  An official report examining what went wrong found that Ms Rudd had been let down by her officials.  However, it stopped short of criticising Sir Philip. A second source told The Sunday Times that the senior Cabinet minister receives less classified information than her predecessors. 'They [the intelligence services] have to decide how much to share, and they share less. The source added: 'She is also informed about things later in the decision-making process than before. Some things the security services do have legal implications, but she tends not to want to hear that.' But MI5 last night moved to quash the claims, as it warned that the 'untrue' accusations do 'not serve the public interest'. A security source said: 'Reports suggesting that the Home Secretary and MI5 do not have a strong working relationship are simply untrue.  The Home Secretary is briefed daily on intelligence matters in exactly the same way as any previous post holder. No information is being withheld.  'Any report suggesting otherwise is simply wrong and does not serve the public interest.'  An ally of Ms Patel last night said: 'Someone is clearly out to get Priti. The made-up briefing about our intelligence services has crossed the line.' A source said they 'strongly refute' accusations of bullying or belittling and had never seen any evidence of this, instead describing her as 'demanding but kind', adding: 'But it is a demanding job, that's the nature of the job.' The Home Office said 'no formal complaints' had been made. The Daily Mail revealed last week how Ms Patel fell out with Home Office officials after she accused them of dragging their feet over tougher action against eco-warriors.  She wanted them to look into ways to change police powers to stop protesters bringing cities to a standstill, a Government source said. But the Home Secretary felt they were raising objections to reforms which could have helped the police tackle organisations such as Extinction Rebellion. It is thought that Ms Patel wants to include the new measures in the Police Powers and Protection Bill expected to be submitted in the summer. Measures would not include the use of force but would be designed to ensure individuals can get to work or avoid seeing their businesses forced to shut. 
