brexit
{ By Luke Andrews For Mailonline   Published:  17:13, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7984143/London-council-insists-fly-EU-flag-outside-town-hall-despite-Brexit.html }
A London council has said it will still fly the EU flag even though Britain has quit the 27-member union. Hounslow council, in London, said it would keep the flag up as 'a symbol that we remain an internationalist borough' and a place which 'embraces diversity and which EU citizens can call home'. However, the decision has led to a raft of angry comments online as social media users demanded the council 'take it down', 'listen to voters' and accuse the council of 'pointless virtue signalling'.  Hounslow voted to remain by 51.1 per cent to 48.9 per cent in the 2017 referendum on EU membership.  Council leader Steve Curran announced the decision the day Britain left the European Union at a meeting attended by staff from Poland, Croatia, Germany, Norway, Romania and other EU countries. 'Although the decision to leave the EU has been made, we know there is still a lot of uncertainty and concern among our EU citizens, their families and employers, as well as local businesses and organisations,' he said in a statement. 'We want to make sure they continue to feel welcome as valued members of our communities. 'We're going to keep flying the EU flag as a symbol that we remain an internationalist borough, a gateway to London for people and business, and a place which embraces diversity and which EU citizens can call home.' Their decision has sparked a wave of angry comments online. One poster wrote, 'What a waste of a post, a waste of energy and a pointless virtue signal', while a second said, 'Typical Hounslow, do your own thing, don't listen to voters'. 'Way to go, accusing everyone who voted to leave of racism/xenophobia,' said a third. And a Remainer even branded it a 'ludicrous decision'. 'I'm a remainer, but this selfish decision is based on personal preferences of the so-called leader of Hounslow council,' they said.  'Whether you agree with Brexit or not we are now out of the EU and democracy only works with the losers consent... so do our elected representatives no longer believe in the democracy that put them in their positions?', posted one. 'If you want to show yourselves as an "internationalist borough" why not fly individual flags for all the different nationalities that call Hounslow home?', said another.  Others, however, were thrilled with the council's decision. 'Well done Hounslow. Good decision.' said one, while a second added, 'proud to live in Hounslow.' The flag will continue to fly at Hounslow House, which the council moved into in April last year following two years of building work. 
