brexit
{ By Andrew Bullock For Mailonline   Published:  11:05, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7983641/Love-Island-viewers-brand-contestants-stupid-Demi-thinks-language-Holland-Hollanadise.html }
Fans of Love Island branded the current stars 'stupid' during Saturday night's 'Unseen Bits' episode, as Demi struggled to understand that those from Holland speak Dutch. Enjoying a relaxing chat in the shade on the day bed, the now-former-contestant Biggs revealed he was raised in Holland until he was 12. Demi asked, flippantly: 'So can you speak a little bit in Hollandaise?' 'Hollandaise? Hollandaise? It's Dutch man!' was Biggs' reply An embarrassed Demi tittered at this as the others burst into laughter at her gaffe. 'It's bloody scary how stupid some of the #loveisland people are,' one fan took to Twitter to post.  Followed by a second: 'Demi thinking the language of Netherlands was hollandaise and being so sure about it is me when I'm wrong but want everyone to agree with me.'  Penned a third: 'How can Demi say hollandaise is the language spoken in Holland? Nah I'm done with this show.' Other apparent issues with the intelligence of the Islanders cropped up when they were tasked with counting to eight. They were learning how to salsa  and appeared to struggle with the basic exercise. Other chats turned to gravity and what would happen should it cease to exist. Contestant Callum has been particularly susceptible to airhead moments - asking whether twins Jess and Eve were the same age and wondering if Priscilla's sudden blonde hair was a wig. Back in 2018, Piers Morgan referred to people who go on Love Island as the 'most stupid people in the world'. The outspoken TV host made the remark when referencing a clip of the girls discussing Brexit with then-star Hayley Hughes interject: 'What's that? I seriously don't have a clue.' Before showing the moment, Piers told viewers: ‘We have had a debate about the mental abilities of those on Love Island. ‘I think they’re the most stupid people in the world. Susanna thinks they’re moral guardians of the nation and we should all be watching.’ Susanna then hit back: 'I think they represent real life and you shouldn’t be snobby about whether someone went to university or not.’  Introducing a clip of their Brexit chat, Piers said: ‘Here’s why I’m snobby, they are even more stupid than I thought they were...' The short video showed contestant Georgia Steel ask her fellow female Islanders what they thought of Brexit, saying: 'It's where we're leaving the European Union.' 'So does that mean we won't have any trees?' a worried Hayley then asked. Kendall Rae-Knight then assured her: 'No, we're just not in the European Union.' Georgia then quizzed: 'Doesn't it mean it'd be harder to, like, go to, like, Spain and stuff?' 'So it'd be harder to go on holidays?' Hayley retorted. 'Oh, I love my holidays.' 
