{ By James Tapsfield, Political Editor For Mailonline   Published:  10:36, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7983579/Labours-Dawn-Butler-accuses-Boris-Johnson-bullying-John-Bercow.html }
John Bercow today raged at a 'conspiracy' to block him from the House of Lords - but insisted he had not given up on becoming a peer. The former Speaker said it was 'blindingly obvious' there was an 'organised effort' to stop him being elevated to the Upper House.  The defiant stance came as Labour's Dawn Butler accused Boris Johnson of 'bullying' Mr Bercow - even though he is the one facing claims he abused Parliamentary staff.  The frontbencher said she believed the ex-MP was being denied a place in the House of Lords because he had frustrated the PM's Brexit policy   Mr Bercow stood down as Speaker at the end of October after a controversial decade in chair.  Despite the Tories making clear he will not be elevated to the Lords, outgoing Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn has nominated him for the honour. However, Mr Bercow has faced renewed allegations about his conduct, including from former Commons Clerk Lord Lisvane and former Black Rod David Leakey. Mr Bercow has always flatly denied any wrongdoing. But Lt Gen Leakey said giving him a peerage would be a 'scandal' due to his behaviour.  Meanwhile, the House of Commons has rebuked the ex-Speaker for naming officials in his autobiography, published last week.  Interviewed on BBC Radio 4's Broadcasting House, Mr Bercow admitted he was not automatically entitled to a peerage even though 'every Speaker for the last couple of hundred years' had received one. Asked whether he accepted his chances of becoming a Lord had gone, he replied: 'I didn't say that. You asked me whether there was a concerted campaign, whether there was a conspiracy, whether there was an organised effort and I said it is blindingly obvious that that is so.'    Ms Butler, who is standing for the Labour deputy leadership, mounted a strong defence of Mr Bercow today. She told Sky News' Sophy Ridge On Sunday programme: 'It is the norm that the Speaker of the House is always given a peerage so I think the first question for me is why hasn't he been given a peerage from the Conservatives?'  She added: 'I would like to know the reason why he wasn't given a peerage. I suspect it's actually do to with Brexit rather than anything else.  'The other thing is due process has to happen so if you accuse somebody of bullying there has to be due process.'  Ms Butler said: 'If John Bercow's been accused of bullying then there needs to be due process and has he been found guilty or is it just an accusation? And I think those are the things that we have to go through.  'We really do need to ask the Conservatives why is it that you haven't like everybody else ensured that the Speaker of the House is given a peerage? Otherwise I think that is a form of bullying too.'   
