brexit
{ By James Tapsfield, Political Editor For Mailonline   Published:  10:05, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7983517/Labour-reports-Keir-Starmer-aides-information-watchdog.html }
Labour is embroiled in a 'dirty tricks' row after the party reported Keir Starmer's leadership campaign to the information watchdog over claims details of members were hacked. The party confirmed it has notified the independent Information Commissioner after allegations were made about abuse of official databases.  According to the BBC, some of Sir Keir's aides have been accused of 'data-scraping' to identify potential supporters to target in the contest.  But a spokesman for Sir Keir dismissed the accusations as 'nonsense' and said the campaign categorically denied any wrongdoing.  Allies of the shadow Brexit secretary - who this weekend pulled out of hustings events after his mother-in-law died - suggested he was the victim of a dirty tricks campaign.  The spat emerged following claims that rival Rebecca Long-Bailey's team had used details held by the party as part of efforts to contact members.   Access to such information is meant to be tightly controlled until February 14, to avoid giving any candidate an unfair advantage. Ms Long-Bailey and Sir Keir are the two frontrunners in the battle to succeed Jeremy Corbyn. The winner is due to be declared on April 4.   A Labour Party spokesman said: 'The Labour Party takes its legal responsibilities for data protection - and the security and integrity of its data and systems - extremely seriously.  'We have written to all leadership candidates to remind them of their obligations under the law and to seek assurances that membership data will not be misused.'   Labour's general secretary Jennie Formby has ordered a 'thorough investigation' of all the claims.  It is understood the party has not yet identified evidence to substantiate the allegations about Ms Long-Bailey's campaign - which has denied any deliberate breach - but is investigating 'separate matters' that emerged as a result.   A spokesman for Sir Keir said: 'We categorically reject these nonsensical allegations and are incredibly disappointed that they have been leaked to the media.  'We are still awaiting the party's formal response to the serious concerns we and others had about access to Labour Party membership data.'  Starmer campaign chairwoman Jenny Chapman said the leadership contest was 'supposed to be a clean fight'. She said: 'I think this is the sort of thing, it doesn't do the Labour Party any favours. 'Whoever decided to send these sort of threatening letters to people on the Keir Starmer campaign and then to leak it to the BBC really isn't doing the Labour Party or their preferred candidate any favours here.'  Ms Chapman added that she is 'completely confident' that their campaign has done 'absolutely nothing wrong' and said she is 'very happy to answer any questions on this'.  She said: 'There is nothing that has gone wrong in terms of data in Keir's campaign and there won't be either.  'The only people that we are contacting at the moment are people who have registered to support Keir Starmer and we don't need to engage in this kind of thing, it would be craziness and we're just not going to do it.'  Labour MP Steve McCabe tweeted: This is very disappointing but highlights just how much change will be necessary to restore the party to health & make us electable once more.  'Keir can win despite unelected apparatchiks plotting against him because ordinary members have had enough.'  
