{ By Andrew Court For Dailymail.com   Published:  07:25, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7983249/Brad-Pitt-sparks-rumors-hes-hired-GHOSTWRITER-craft-hilarious-awards-speeches.html }
Brad Pitt is the hot favorite to win the Best Supporting Actor Oscar at the Academy Awards on Sunday night.   And it's likely the 56-year-old's acceptance speech will be chock full of zingers amid rumors he's hired a ghostwriter to craft his words for the current awards show season.  Pitt has recently collected gongs at the Golden Globes, the BAFTAs and the SAG Awards for his performance in Once Upon A Time In Hollywood, and audiences have noted that his speeches are brimming with wit.  While Pitt is already known for his keen sense of humor, Vulture reports that one speechwriting agency has confirmed that the actor's reps reached out about 'engaging their services' prior to the awards season. The agency - who wishes to remain anonymous - did not reveal whether they reached a deal with star.  DailyMail.com has reached out to Pitt's management for comment.   On his co-star Leonardo DiCaprio: 'I would have shared the raft with you' On his status as a Hollywood heartthrob: 'I wanted to bring my mom, but any woman I stand next to they say I'm dating. It'd just be awkward!' On Quentin Tarantino's foot fetish: 'Quentin has separated more women from their shoes than the TSA'  On the SAG Award statue of a sculpted man: 'I've got to add this to my Tinder profile!' On Brexit: 'Hey Britain – I heard you just became single, welcome to the club' On Megxit: 'I'm going to name this award 'Harry' because I'm really excited about bringing it back to the States with me'  The Hollywood heartthrob first sparked speculation that he had hired help to craft his speeches after delivering a widely-lauded address at the Golden Globes on January 5.  His humorous speech made headlines after he specifically thanked his Once Upon A Time co-star Leonard DiCaprio, before making a witty reference to the end of DiCaprio's most famous film - Titanic. 'I would have shared the raft with you,' Pitt quipped, referring to the end of the film where DiCaprio's character freezes to death in the icy water after there were not enough life rafts.  He also joked about his life in the tabloids, stating: 'I wanted to bring my mom, but any woman I stand next to they say I'm dating. It'd just be awkward!' At the SAG Awards a fortnight later, Pitt was once again in fine form as he collected an award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role.  Looking lovingly at the award, he wisecracked: 'I've got to add this to my Tinder profile'. He then went on to poke fun at director Quentin Tarantino's penchant for filming the bare feet of famous actresses.  'Quentin has separated more women from their shoes than the TSA,' Pitt joked.  Meanwhile, the actor managed to leave crowds laughing even when he wasn't available to accept one award in person.   Last week, Pitt was absent from the BAFTAs where he won a gong for his role in Once Upon A Time.  Co-star Margot Robbie accepted the statuette on his behalf, and read out a humorous speech purported to have been written by Pitt.  The timely address referenced both Brexit and Megxit and went down well with the British audience.  'Hey Britain – I heard you just became single, welcome to the club,' Robbie read from Pitt's note.  The actor also couldn't resist also getting in a quip about Meghan Markle and Prince Harry, who had recently fled the United Kingdom for North America.  Robbie explained: 'Brad's going to name this award 'Harry' because he's really excited about bringing it back to the States with him.' Prince William and wife Kate Middleton were seen cackling at the joke from their seats in the theater.   
