{ By Charlotte Griffiths for The Mail on Sunday   Published:  01:00, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7982627/Victoria-Beckham-secret-personal-stylist-says-fashion-guru-Susannah-Constantine.html }
Victoria Beckham may have built her own fashion empire, but Susannah Constantine suspects she has a secret personal stylist. Susannah, who made her name on TV fashion show What Not To Wear, let slip her conspiracy theory while describing David Beckham’s wife as a ‘try-hard’. ‘I admire Victoria’s ability to walk in high heels. But I feel her style is not innate – it’s too manufactured and I feel she has a stylist,’ she said. ‘Someone like Tilda Swinton is a true style icon because she’s done it all herself'.  Speaking to Tan France on the My Wardrobe Malfunction podcast she added: 'Victoria Beckham is just a cliche to me. It’s so try-hard.’ With her estimated fortune of £240 million, I don’t imagine Posh Spice will lose too much sleep over this. Dominic Cummings hates ‘inane questions’ about Brexit, as we learned from his frosty exchange with an ITV News reporter last week.  But I know a subject that does get the PM’s scruffy aide talking… Otto von Bismarck.  My Downing Street spy was enjoying a discussion about the 19th Century German statesman when Dom jumped in to ask, ‘Did someone say Bismarck?’, before explaining that he was fascinated by him.  I wonder what attracts Dom to the power-crazed arch-manipulator? Despite reports that life behind the scenes at This Morning is toxic, presenter Phillip Schofield finds a way to cheer up staff.  I’m told he hands bottles of Moet to researchers who discover interesting nuggets of information about guests.  My source says: ‘If the interviewee responds with something like, “Wow, hardly anyone knew that,” it makes Phil very happy indeed.  'He will then find the researcher who put that anecdote on his notes and give them a bottle of champagne.’ Celebs spouting nonsense It was only a matter of time before a member of the woke brigade chimed in with a quack approach to the coronavirus crisis.  Step forward socialite Sabrina Percy, who thinks the epidemic can be warded off… with lashings of green tea!  Sabrina, 29, who is engaged to restaurateur Phineas Page, has been gulping down a combination of garlic, oregano oil and dandelion with the tea in the hope that it will protect her. ‘I am taking measures to prepare my immune system as best I can – just in case,’ says the model.  Good luck with that, Sabrina! 
