{ By Caroline Graham In Los Angeles For The Mail On Sunday   Published:  22:58, 8 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7982295/Why-British-writer-Two-Popes-erased-Oscars.html }
Based on Vatican discussions on the state of the Catholic Church, The Two Popes might initially seem a little short of Hollywood drama. But behind the scenes, intrigue stalks the movie, which has been shortlisted for three Oscars tonight. Its stars, Jonathan Pryce and Sir Anthony Hopkins, are up for best actor and best supporting actor respectively. But it is the nomination for best adapted screenplay which is causing consternation – as missing from the citation is British writer Frank Cottrell-Boyce, despite his substantial contribution to the script. He was called in to help Anthony McCarten adapt his 2017 play The Pope for the screen, drawing on his detailed knowledge of Catholicism. Yet his name does not appear on the film’s official credits, apparently at the behest of producers Netflix, which means he will not be invited to the podium if the film wins. Last night the Writers Guild of America confirmed Cottrell-Boyce was eligible for a co-writing credit. But senior director of credits, Lesley Mackey, said: ‘[Netflix] determines what they believe is a good-faith credit based on how the film was written. In this case they believed the credit was solely due to Mr McCarten. ‘Mr Cottrell-Boyce could have chosen to protest that and ask us to arbitrate. That didn’t happened. Mr Cottrell-Boyce was eligible but there was no protest.’ Cottrell-Boyce, who also worked with Danny Boyle on the opening celebrations of the 2012 London Olympics, was not available for comment yesterday, but a friend of the writer told The Mail on Sunday: ‘It’s all a bit confusing and rather disappointing. ‘It doesn’t seem that credit has been given where credit’s due.’ Tonight’s awards are expected to be dominated by the epic war movie 1917, which is hot favourite to win best picture. Its British director Sam Mendes, who based the film on his grandfather’s experiences in the trenches, is tipped to take the best director prize. Joker star Joaquin Phoenix is favourite to win best actor while Brad Pitt is expected to pick up the best supporting actor gong for Once Upon A Time In Hollywood. British newcomer Florence Pugh is up for best supporting actress for her role in Little Women, although it is expected to go to Laura Dern for Marriage Story. Renee Zellweger is expected to win best actress for playing Judy Garland. Last night Oscar insiders revealed the Duke and Duchess of Sussex had been invited to present an award but had ‘respectfully declined’. They had been approached about presenting the best documentary Oscar, expected to be won by American Factory, a film about a Chinese-owned US car plant made by Michelle and Barack Obama’s production company. A source said: ‘They had been expected to attend but then the Obamas announced they weren’t coming because of security concerns so Meghan and Harry backed out too.’ He was the toast of last weekend’s Baftas with an hilarious acceptance speech that brought the house down – even though he wasn’t there to deliver it. But there is now speculation that Brad Pitt, not normally known for his quick wit, has hired a professional writer to craft his words. At the Baftas, co-star Margot Robbie read out his speech, saying he was naming his best supporting actor prize Harry ‘because it is coming back to America with me’. The speech also included a joke that made reference to both Brexit and his love life, when he said: ‘Hey Britain, heard you just became single, welcome to the club.’ It is not the first witticism he has made on the podium this awards season. At the Golden Globes, he quipped that he would have ‘shared the raft’ with his Once Upon A Time In Hollywood co-star Leonardo DiCaprio – a dig at the star’s fate at the end of Titanic. He also made a self-deprecating joke at the Screen Actors Guild Awards that he would put the statuette ‘on my Tinder profile’. While Pitt’s representatives declined to comment, a source who has worked with the star told The Mail on Sunday: ‘Brad’s a nice guy but not the sharpest tool in the woodshed. ‘When he started coming out with these slick acceptance speeches and great one-liners it was obvious to me someone else was probably writing the words. Good for him. ‘Who wouldn’t want to look and sound their best when they are up there getting an award? Brad can handle the looking good part so kudos to him if he has hired someone to help him sound witty and intelligent.’ Hopefully he has something prepared for tonight, when he is the clear favourite to win yet another best supporting actor gong at the Oscars. 
