brexit
{ By Matt Porter For Mailonline   Published:  23:37, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/sportsnews/article-8033443/Man-Citys-ban-appeal-revive-allegations-Liverpool-hacking.html }
Manchester City say they will leave 'nothing off the table' when it comes to the appeal against their European ban, and it could land Liverpool in trouble, according to The Mirror.  The Premier League champions have received a £25million fine and a two-year suspension from UEFA competitions due to Financial Fair Play violations. However, it may reopen allegations against Liverpool over the hacking of their scouting database in 2013.  Liverpool's sporting director and two of the club's scouts who had joined from City were the ones accused of involvement, and the two clubs settled a £1million compensation package and signed a confidentiality agreement.  The matter came back to light last year, but the FA ended their investigation earlier this month, with a spokesperson saying: 'The FA has carefully considered the evidence it received in this matter, including information provided by both clubs involved, and has decided not to progress the investigation. 'This is due to a number of factors including the age of the alleged concerns and the settlement agreed by the two clubs involved. 'As per standard protocol, should The FA receive further information or evidence, the decision not to progress the investigation may be reviewed.' However, now it seems Manchester City may be willing to provide new evidence in order to reopen the investigation as they try and make their case to have their European ban revoked.  They will claim that the evidence against them is based on emails which were illegally obtained and taken out of context.  City have appointed an intimidating legal team to plead their case, with QC David Pannick being drafted in to help.  Pannick is a £20,000-a-day lawyer, considered one of Britain's best, and twice represented Gina Miller when she challenged Boris Johnson and Theresa May on issues relating to Brexit.  City's legal team also includes representatives from Freshfields, Bruckhaus Deringer, Pinsent Masons, and Monkton Chambers. If the case is taken to Swiss Federal Court, they will also have Kellerhals Carrard on side.  City are expected to fight hard as they are reportedly unwilling to accept any financial sanction this time around after being fined £49million for violations in 2014.   
