brexit
{ By Harry Wise For This Is Money    Published:  12:47, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8041659/Bank-England-currency-printer-La-Rue-heighten-cost-cutting-programme-ahead-bicentenary.html }
Currency and former UK passport printer De la Rue has said it plans to make savings of £35million to improve financial performance, £15million more than its previous target.  The Basingstoke-based firm says the cost-cutting will 'enable it to compete more strongly across all its market segments' and improve profitability at its flagship currency division. It also wants to 'improve efficiencies' across its manufacturing bases and to boost capabilities at the sites to allow it to be more flexible to adapt to market conditions.  De La Rue is targeting a return to margin growth within its currency division in 2020-21 to coincide with its 200th anniversary helped by the cost savings and investment in polymer notes.   The efficiency savings will form part of a plan to turn around its fortunes, and included the £42million sale of its International Identity Solutions business to focus on its currency and authentication divisions. CEO Clive Vacher said the firm was 'on track with the turnaround plan, which will deliver significant improvement in the operational and financial performance of the Company.  'The plan drives extensive cost reduction and, in parallel, offers a substantial investment opportunity for growth.'  De La Rue's value took a major blow when it lost the £490million government contract to design the post-Brexit blue passports in May last year. Controversial chief executive Martin Sutherland subsequently announced his departure.  He earned nearly £5million in the five years he oversaw De La Rue, despite overseeing thousands of job cuts and failing to win the blue passport tender.  It has already warned over profits twice in recent months and its half-year results in November showed £12.1million of losses against profits of £7.1million a year earlier. But on Tuesday it confirmed the group is in line for adjusted operating profit of between £20million and £25million for the year to the end of March, with trading in both its currency and its authentication divisions "satisfactory" so far in the second half of the year. Since May, its share price has been cut by two-thirds and its debts have risen to £170million. The Georgian-era firm warned in November that if the turnaround plan fails, it would go under.  However, the company says the growth of currencies being made with polymer will help it to turn around its fortunes.  Last week, the Bank of England released the new £20 note, which comes coated with the Safeguard's polymer substrate.  Next year will see the new £50 sterling polymer note designed by De La Rue is due to come out.  It will feature the face of pioneering computer scientist Alan Turing, who was infamously persecuted for his sexuality in the 1950s.  The launch will take place 200 years after its founding by Guernsey-born printer Thomas De La Rue, who started out making straw hats before securing a Royal Warrant from King William IV to produce playing cards with 'certain improvements.' These included making cards with enamel paper, designing colourful court cards of Kings and Queens, and better glazing technology.  His younger brother Paul managed to convince the Tsarist Court in Russia, which was the only body licensed to produce playing cards in the country, to let them manufacture playing cards. Within a short time, De La Rue's Russian plant was making four million packs of playing cards every year and was the biggest playing card factory in the world. De La Rue then moved into train tickets, stamps, before the British colony of Mauritius commissioned them to create the five pound, pound and ten shilling notes in 1860, the company's first banknotes. They later made Christmas cards, developed the Onoto fountain pen, and until recently, was contracted to make UK passports. Currency manufacturing has remained their trademark brand though.  It printed cash for exiled Allied governments during World War II and for Iraq after the toppling of its dictator Saddam Hussein in 2003.  The same year, the struggling firm won the right to run the Bank of England's printing plant. Today it works with over 140 countries on banknote production, but is also involved in product authentication to stop the illicit goods trade and makes identity cards. Shares in De La Rue performed strongly this morning, jumping 18.9 per cent to 145.3p. 
