business
{ By Cassie Carpenter For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:45, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8043075/Tyra-Banks-flaunts-cleavage-bustier-promote-theme-park-ModelLand-Late-NYC.html }
Supermodel-turned-CEO Tyra Banks glammed up for an upcoming appearance on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert in Midtown Manhattan on Monday night. The 46-year-old LA native slipped her curvaceous 5ft10in figure into ultra-tight blue pants, and she wore a cleavage-boosting bustier top beneath a navy-plaid blazer and sparkly pumps selected by stylist J.Bolin. Tyra's curly wig was coiffed by hairstylist Brandi Frye-Odom and she topped it with a black ModelLand beret.   Make-up artist Mallory Jo Hunter applied Banks' fully-contoured complexion, defined brows, and false lashes for the pre-taped talk show appearance.  On Tuesday, the two-time Daytime Emmy winner braved the rain in the Big Apple with help from her very own dapper umbrella handler. This time, Tyra was decked out in Tyra merchandise - a black 'smize' beanie and a 'make it fashion' hoodie. Banks has spent the last week in New York promoting her mysterious theme park ModelLand, which was 12 years in the making.  'Imagine Harry Potter's Hogwarts mixed with America's Next Top Model...It's a story-driven experience where everyone is the star,' the brunette beauty explained on Build Series. 'I do know I was an early voice where a lot of people in the fashion industry weren’t happy that I was doing this. They weren't happy I had girls on Top Model that were shorter. They weren't happy I had girls on Top Model that were thicker.' Tyra's 21K-square Glamour Shots-style attraction promises to elevate your 'selfie esteem' and opens May 1 inside Macerich's Santa Monica Place. Tickets/packages start at $39 for child entry and $59 for adult entry, but then immediately spike to $549 for a 'fantascene photoshoot' or $1,495 for a 'fantascene dream.'   'The "fantascene" is like the fanciest spa you've ever gone to,' Banks described during Good Morning America on Monday. 'Except for instead of a massage, you get couture hair, make-up, styling, photos to take home that are so amazing. Everybody that comes to ModelLand gets a lookbook. 'Every time you come back you get a lookbook that you update. It is fantastic and the themes constantly change so you can get a membership and come back all the time because we change that theme, honey.' The SI Swimsuit stunner originally came up with the name ModelLand as the title of the young adult novel she penned back in 2011.  Tyra also chatted about her trilingual three-year-old son York with Norwegian photographer Erik Asla, whom she split with in 2017 after five years of dating. 'My little boy is amazing. Oh my gosh he has changed me,' Banks - who's dating Canadian businessman Louis Bélanger-Martin - explained. 'First of all, he's a hot mess. He just understands psychology already. I'll tell him, "If you do that, you can't play with that car." He'll reply, "Mommy, I don't want that car anymore." 'I'm like, "You're 4. How do you know how to do this already?" It's insane. It's crazy. Oh he knows how to "smize" and I'm teaching my son to like all body types.'   After 15 years on The CW and VH1, the pretty presenter's original series America's Next Top Model has been off the air since April 10, 2018. And though he'd never admit it, RuPaul Charles has Tyra to thank for the overall format of his hit VH1 competition RuPaul's Drag Race, which debuts its 12th season this Friday. The Stanford School of Business lecturer next serves keynote speaker duties at Bay Path University's Women Leadership Conference on March 27 at the MassMutual Center in Springfield, MA. 
