business
{ By Alisha Buaya and Kristy Johnson For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  07:34, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8040953/Steve-Irwins-hot-niece-Rebecca-Lobie-flaunts-ample-cleavage-hot-pink-swimsuit.html }
Her late uncle Steve Irwin often set hearts racing when he jumped in front of crocodiles. And while she may not be following in his footsteps, Steve's niece Rebecca Lobie sure knows how to make hearts skip a beat on Instagram.  On Tuesday, the 32-year-old shared a photo of herself posing on her back wearing a hot pink swimsuit. Her racy, figure-hugging ensemble featured a very deep neckline that drew attention to her ample assets. She let her raunchy picture do all the talking, only adding heart emojis to the caption. The blonde beauty glammed up her saucy look with false lashes and a slick of pink gloss on her pout.  Since going viral with her risqué photos, Rebecca has racked up over 114,000 followers on Instagram. Last Wednesday, she left very little to the imagination in a mirror selfie that drew attention to her tiny blue bikini top and G-string briefs. In the picture, she perched her frame on the edge of a bathroom sink and showed off her derrière in the mirror's reflection. Rebecca added a delicate gold initial pendant to the look, also drawing attention to her ample bust in the barely-there bikini top. The hospitality professional swept her blonde locks back off her face, and gazed intently at the camera.  Rebecca is the daughter of Frank Muscillo, who is married to Steve Irwin's sister Joy.  According to her LinkedIn, she was previously managing director of the Irwin family business, Australia Zoo, but left in December 2015. During her tenure, Rebecca oversaw 'multiple food outlets' at the Sunshine Coast tourist attraction, as well as 'catering and functions'.  In 2016, The Courier Mail reported that Rebecca, who is now working as a restaurant manager near her home in Mooloolaba, had cut all ties with Australia Zoo.  She is also no longer following her 21-year-old cousin, Bindi Irwin, on Instagram - despite the fact the pair were once close. 
