business
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  05:05, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8040865/Bushfire-hit-NSW-towns-wait-clean-up.html }
Charred rubble remains untouched in the streets for many fire-stricken NSW communities, with tension between the federal and state government slowing clean-up efforts. In the NSW South Coast town of Mogo, fire destroyed a third of the town in late December, claiming the home and business of Peter Williams. Mr Williams says the debris of his old converted church serves as a painstaking reminder of everything lost. "This place is still a mess," he told AAP. "It's taking a very long time to clear and we just want to start getting back to normal." Sky News reported over the weekend the federal government's bushfire royal commission announcement had stoked confusion regarding who would collect the tab for waste disposal. In question time on Monday, opposition leader Anthony Albanese asked Prime Minister Scott Morrison whether he was attempting to reduce the federal government's funding commitment by not including disposal costs. Mr Morrison said the proposal was an arrangement between the federal treasurer, state treasurer and the National Bushfire Recovery Agency. "What we proposed is what was announced," Mr Morrison said on Monday. The disposal is split between the two governments, which has led to slow clean-up efforts. Mr Williams described the federal government's work as "fairly disappointing", with state efforts slightly better. Glen Innes Severn Council mayor Carol Sparks said her local government area in the NSW northern tablelands is still waiting for clean-up efforts after fires passed through Wytaliba and Torrington in November last year. Although the majority of the shire is green, she said the clean-up is now more difficult after recent rain caused flooding. "They (government) didn't really get onto the job soon enough, I guess it wasn't a priority but people are frustrated, that's for sure," Ms Sparks told AAP. Ms Sparks said the army is currently in the area but heavy rain has halted real progress, in particular the redevelopment of the Old Grafton Road Mann River crossing bridge. This has hindered the Wytaliba community from accessing other towns and stopped children from attending school. "Bureaucracy has caused all sorts of hold-ups, but people are being resilient," she said. 
