{ By Alisha Buaya For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  04:52, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8040547/Married-Sights-Michael-Goonan-believes-lot-people-working-paps.html }
Unlike many of his Married At First Sight co-stars Michael Goonan has shunned the limelight since filming wrapped last month.  And the 28-year-old business owner has now criticised some of his co-stars for working with paparazzi to maximise their fame.  Speaking to Hit105's Stav, Abby and Matt on Tuesday, Michael said that several participants have been contacting paparazzi and tipping them off on their whereabouts. 'I think a lot of people in the show are working closely with the media and paps,' his said.  'Nine times out of ten they're getting papped because they are telling them where they are and things like that. I just think that's how the industry works,' he said.  Michael, who has managed to dodge the paparazzi more than most of his co-stars, insisted that he prefers to 'stay well out of it' and 'hide under his rock'.   A slew of Michael's co-stars have been photographed out-and-about including Natasha Herz, Natasha Spencer, Mikey Pembroke, Mishel Karen and Vanessa Romito. Hayley Vernon, with whom Michael is rumoured to have had an 'affair' on the show, has also been photograph going topless at a Sydney beach. It comes after Michael admitted his involvement in a cheating scandal that halted production for two weeks back in October.  Speaking to Nova 100's Chrissie, Sam & Browny on Tuesday, the single father denied being solely responsible for the temporary shut-down. 'Production halted for two weeks, because, I believe, so much stuff happened off camera that wasn't captured in the moment.  'Production had to have multiple meetings and work out where everyone's storyline was at, because a lot of storylines had obviously deviated or gone off the rails. 'It would have been a hard job for them [producers]. If you've got stuff going on off camera, you've still got to be able to tell the story. Married At First Sight continues Tuesday at 7:30pm on Channel Nine   
