{ By Chloe-lee Longhetti For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  04:45, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8040685/Kyly-Clarke-flaunts-trim-figure-white-dress-split-cricket-star-husband-Michael.html }
They announced their shock split earlier this month.  And on Monday, Kyly Clarke showed estranged husband Michael, 38, what he's missing, stunning in a white lacy dress ahead of a TV interview.  The 38-year-old showed off her trim figure and bronzed complexion in the frock by Australian fashion label, Mossman.   'That dress,' Kyly captioned the image.  'Thanks Mossman Clothing for creating such stunning and unique pieces that are comfy to wear.' Kyly teamed the look with black Jimmy Choo heels and a Hermes bracelet and wore a full face of makeup. The throwback photograph is believed to have been taken as she waited backstage ahead of appearing on The Daily Edition on Seven recently, where she revealed she had a skin cancer scare.  Earlier this month, Michael and Kyly announced their shock split after seven years of marriage, following a quiet separation five months ago.  In a joint statement, Kyly and Michael said it was 'amicable' decision and 'the best course' for their four-year-old daughter, Kelsey Lee. The news came as a surprise to many, as Kyly had told Daily Mail Australia in January 2019: 'We're not, never were and never will be splitting.' Just eight months later, Michael reportedly moved out of their $12million marital home in Vaucluse, Sydney. He is now living at his apartment in Bondi Beach. The Clarkes have already agreed terms on their divorce, as well as arrangements to co-parent their daughter, Kelsey Lee, four. Meanwhile, P.E Nation co-founder Pip Edwards denied romance rumours with Michael over the weekend, after he was seen last week leaving her home in Sydney's Bondi last Thursday morning.   Pip told The Sunday Telegraph that she has been supporting her friend and business associate 'through a rough time'. She told the publication that she has been friends with Michael for 12 years, and that they simply have a business association.  
