business
{ By Charlie Coë For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:04, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8039555/Mack-Hortons-old-Melbourne-school-backflips-scrapping-using-new-aquatic-centre.html }
Mack Horton's old school may still name a $25million aquatic centre after him after it emerged they had shelved the plans because of his rivalry with Chinese drug-cheat swimmer Sun Yang. Melbourne's exclusive Caulfield Grammar School reportedly chose not to name the newly-opened centre after Horton to protect its business interests in China following his refusal to share the podium with Sun at the world championships last year. The school had used their former student's profile to gather donations for the complex and held talks with Horton's coach to train at the pool. Scroll down for video  Those discussions ended last year though after Horton refused to stand on the podium or shake hands with Sun in July, The Age reported.  Caulfield Grammar opened a boarding house in Nanjing, China in 1998 and sends Year Nine students on a language and cultural immersion program to the country every year.  Principal Ashleigh Martin denied the claims that the school had ditched plans to name the pool after Horton. 'The naming of buildings at Caulfield Grammar School is a school council decision and discussions relating to the naming of the Caulfield Aquatic Centre have not commenced,' he said. 'Caulfield Grammar School and its community have great pride, respect and admiration for Mack Horton, as an Olympic swimmer and a Caulfield Grammarian.' Parents have threatened to pull their children out of the school in the wake of the report. Appearing on Sunrise on Tuesday morning, Australian Olympic swimming coach Lawrie Lawrence said his family were behind Horton on the naming issue. 'He is an inspiration to young and old Australians and it's a disservice to not recognise his contribution to swimming,' he said quoting his daughter.  Horton is Caulfield Grammar's only Olympic champion.  The Australian swimmer copped backlash from Sun's fans following their feud and was slammed on social media, with his family, partner and sponsors also being attacked by the Chinese swimmer's supporters. Sources close to the matter said the school intended to name its pool after Horton prior to his snub.   The 23-year-old is an advocate for clean sport and believed Sun should not have been able to swim at the 2019 World Championships due to his impending doping trial. Sun was convicted of doping in 2014 and was accused of destroying vials of his blood with a hammer during a clash with testers in 2018.   If Sun is found guilty, he will receive a lifetime ban from the sport. It is not yet known when his trial in the Court of Arbitration for Sport will finish.  Horton will be looking to defend his 400 metre freestyle gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics in 2020 and will swim in the Australian Olympic qualifiers in June. Australia's Mack Horton protested controversial Chinese star Sun Yang's 400m freestyle victory at the world titles in South Korea in July, 2019. Sun pipped Olympic champion Horton by 0.73 of a second to claim his fourth-straight 400m freestyle world title at the opening night of the eight-day championships. But Horton made it clear he was not happy Sun had been allowed to compete at the titles, refusing to stand on the medal podium with the three-time Olympic champion. Horton collected his silver medal but then stood back and refused to acknowledge Sun who stood with bronze medallist Gabrielle Detti of Italy on the podium.  
