{ By Terri-ann Williams For Mailonline   Published:  22:39, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8039815/Britains-worst-female-paedophile-Vanessa-George-seen-shopping.html }
Britain's worst female paedophile Vanessa George has dyed her hair so she isn't recognised after being released from prison. George, 49, was seen out and about doing some shopping with a new dark brown look this week. The convicted child abuser, who now goes by the name Hazel, is believed to have dyed her hair black in prison to 'give herself some anonymity'.  She was seen walking with shopping bags near her West Midlands home and using her phone while sporting a darker hair colour. But on her release from HMP Send in Surrey last year she went back to her signature blonde - only for people to start recognising her again. A source told the newspaper yesterday: 'She clearly thinks her new hairdo will mean she's not recognised but she's not fooling anyone.' The 49-year-old, who is forbidden from returning to Devon or Cornwall where she committed her horrendous crimes, is believed to be still living somewhere in the Midlands, the Daily Record reported.  September 2006: Vanessa George starts working at Little Ted's nursery in Plymouth. Autumn 2008: IT worker Colin Blanchard, previously caught with child sex abuse images, makes contact with George. Late 2008/early 2009: George, Blanchard and other woman, Angela Allen, exchange child abuse images online. Detectives believe they may have been involved in a three-way contest to take the most depraved pictures. June 6, 2009: Blanchard is arrested at Manchester Airport after his business partner discovers indecent images on his computer June 8, 2009: George is arrested, her computer and mobile seized. She is identified from Blanchard's computers and interviews. June 9, 2009: Little Ted's nursery is shut.  June 11, 2009: George first appears in court, sexual assault and making, possessing and distributing indecent images of children. Members of the public shout at her and spit from public gallery. October 1, 2009: George, Allen and Blanchard plead guilty to various charges at Bristol Crown Court. January 10, 2011: Blanchard is jailed for at least nine years following long-running legal proceedings. Two other members of his paedophile ring Tracy Dawber and Tracy Lyons, are also jailed. July 11, 2019: It emerges that the parole board have approved George's release. September 18, 2019: Vanessa George is freed from prison. She is struggling with life on the outside, living in a halfway house where she is shunned by other residents.   George was jailed for a minimum of seven years in 2009 after she sexually assaulted up to 64 children as young as two before filming the abuse and sending it to other paedophiles.  In July, despite outrage from her victims' parents and MPs, the Parole Board ordered her release after she served 10 years. . George, who lost three of her 19 stone in prison, convinced the board to release her after having treatment to boost her 'self-esteem'.  Following her release, a father who had a child at the nursery, told the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme that he was 'disgusted'. 'I knew this was coming, but to find out on the day it's already happened has made it worse,' he said. 'Again, no consideration for the victims. He previously told the programme: 'Our sentence is still carrying on. The only time she's feigned remorse is in her first interview. 'I believe that woman is still a danger to children. She's had those urges before. I don't think they will ever go away. I think there's a very, very strong possibility she could do it again.' A father of another potential victim claimed he would kill her if he ever saw her out on the street.  Child protection officers have visited 180 children thought to have had contact with George, and 21 families have taken up an offer of support. George's co defendant Angela Allen, who raped a girl of three, has already served the five-year minimum of her sentence imposed at the same time. The ringleader of the paedophile gang, Colin Blanchard, will be eligible for parole next year after being jailed in 2011 for a minimum of nine years.     
