business
{ By MailOnline Reporter   Published:  20:10, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//galleries/article-8039361/UKs-iconic-abandoned-spaces-brought-life-creative-imagining.html }
A collection of iconic abandoned buildings from across the UK including a crumbling lighthouse and deserted tube station have been re-imagined into luxury open spaces. The impressive renovations were designed by Barratt Homes to offer a glimpse into the potential of the neglected sites, which include bomb shelters, former World War Two coastal defences and Victorian-era business premises. One such image depicts Aldwych tube station, located in the City of Westminster, London , which was opened in 1907 with the name Strand, after the street it is situated on. The station was the terminus of the short Piccadilly Line branch and operated as a shuttle train during peak hours from 1962 and the service closed in 1994.... ....The tube station has been re-imagined as an exclusive underground speakeasy bar and restaurant, inspired by the likes of the Le Wagon Blue restaurant in Paris. The Art Deco design features copper and electric blue tones in what was previously a dust-covered carriage with snug seating and dimmed lighting. Another picture shows Point of Ayr Lighthouse at Talacre, Flintshire - a Grade II listed building situated on the north coast of Wales. Standing at 60ft tall with an 18ft diameter, the lighthouse is only accessible at low tide with the view from the top overlooking Liverpool Bay and Dee estuary. On the balcony of the crumbling white structure stands a 7ft tall sculpture of a lighthouse keeper made from polished steel.... ...But with some clever architectural planning, the picture-postcard lighthouse could be transformed into a remote wellness spa. An image depicts how the lighthouse could be extended to include a secluded pool while the original structure is fitted with solar panels to allow the spa to be off-grid and encourage guests to enjoy a digital detox. On the other side of the country are the Maunsell Forts - armed towers built in the Thames and Mersey estuaries to help defend Kent from German troops in World War Two. Only two of the three forts remain today - The Shivering Sands Fort and the Redsands Fort. Efforts had been made to preserve the forts in 2005, and in 2015 there were plans to turn them into luxury getaways, but each of these amounted to nothing.... ...But the creative new images from Barratt Homes show how such a getaway might look, with the seven forts accommodating bars, restaurants, retail, banqueting rooms and rooftop terraces. Inverclyde's air raid shelter - Britain's largest purpose-build World War Two shelter - protected more than 1,000 people during the Luftwaffe's bombing of the country. Its tunnels were built in a cliffside in Port Glasgow and now remain a dark, rusty relic of a bygone age.... ...They have now been re-imagined as an underground sustainable vegetable farm, exploring the suggestion that we should we building downwards instead of upwards, and using existing tunnel systems to create agriculture. The Victoria Arches - also knows as Cathedral Steps - are a set of bricked-up arches at an embankment on the River Irwell, Manchester. The arches had served as business premises in Victorian times, and were landing stages for riverboat trips to Manchester Docks from 1895. They had been used as air-raid shelters in World War Two, accessed through wooden staircases from Victoria Street.... ...Now they have been reinvented as small city centre homes, with a staircase leading down to the main living area and secondary levels and a mezzanine-style bedroom accessible by a ladder. 
