business
{ By David Wilcock, Whitehall Correspondent For Mailonline   Published:  18:35, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8039031/Labour-accuse-Priti-Patel-dog-whistle-politics-demand-migrants-speak-English.html }
Priti Patel rode roughshod over businesses demands for greater flexibility in the post-Brexit immigration system today, saying the Government would not allow 'endless exemptions' to tough new rules.  The Home Secretary said the Tories had ended EU freedom of movement only for it to return 'through other routes', in a bad-tempered clash in the House of Commons. She faced accusations of 'dog whistle politics' from Labour after insisting migrants who are allowed in should speak English, with the opposition saying many of them already do. It came after hospitality and farming firms warned of business failures and inflated food prices if they cannot hire enough staff immediately after Brexit. Plans have been put in place for thousands of seasonal workers to come to the UK this year but the Home Secretary today warned that exemptions would not go on forever.  In a Commons statement, Ms Patel said: 'We will continue to refine our immigration system and build on flexibility where it is needed. 'Over time more attributes for which points can be earned may be added, such as previous experience and additional qualifications, allowing us to respond effectively to the needs of the labour market and the economy. 'But to be effective it must be simple so there will not be the endless exemptions for low paid, lower-skilled workers. 'And we are not going to end free movement only to recreate (it) through other routes in name only.' It came after leaders in agriculture, hospitality and the care system last week were among those who warned of a staffing crisis under proposals for a points-based system that would block migration for low paid and low skilled jobs. The number of temporary workers farms can recruit from outside the EU under the seasonal workers scheme has been increased to 10,000 for the coming season, up from 2,500, which the National Farmers' Union (NFU) said would ease some of the pressure this year. But the NFU urged the Government to commit to a full scheme for 2021, so growers can recruit the 70,000 seasonal workers needed on British fruit, vegetable and flower farms.   Shadow Home Office minister Bell Ribeiro-Addy accused the Government of 'dog-whistle politics' with its requirements for migrants to speak English as part of the new system as she said most already have such skills. She told MPs: 'It's very difficult to function in the labour market without English at all which is why they already do speak English when they come here.' She added: 'There is no such thing as low-skilled work, just low-paid work. All work is skilled when it is done well.' Responding, Ms Patel accused the shadow minister of having not read the policy paper, which led to angry murmurs from the Labour benches. Ms Patel replied: 'Actually, no, I wasn't putting her down. She's obviously - if you would like to listen - conflating a number of issues with a new immigration system.' 
