business
{ By Charlie Lankston For Dailymail.com    Published:  17:52, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8038657/Jessica-Mulroney-smiles-arrives-GMA-studios.html }
There were no Monday morning blues for Jessica Mulroney, who certainly had a pep in her step as she arrived at the Good Morning America studios, beaming happily for the cameras as she made her way inside.  The 40-year-old looked every inch the fashionista as she strutted her stuff along the New York City sidewalk wearing a blue plaid Zara suit over a blue tank top, which she accessorized with a blue suede belt and blue suede shows.  Jessica topped the look off with a pair of silver hoop earrings, while her long brunette locks were worn in a half up style, pulled back from her face, with loose waves left to hang over her shoulders.    The fashion stylist went without a purse or handbag, but she carried her iPhone in her right hand, while holding her left in the pocket of her suit trousers, which retail for a budget-friendly $35.90, while her blazer is priced at $49.90. A few chunky silver bangles were seen adorning her wrist above the pocket.  According to a spokesperson for GMA, Jessica was filming for GMA3: Strahan, Sara and Keke; the fashion contributor is helping to plan a wedding for a couple who will tie the knot during Friday's broadcast.   After filming for the show, Jessica was later seen leaving the studios in a completely different ensemble, having changed out of her power suit in favor of a more fun and flirty look.  In place of the suit, Jessica opted for a thigh-skimming $89 English Factory shirt dress, which comes complete with an oversized cream sweater, and a black ribbon neck tie.  She then paired the high hemline with a pair of blue thigh-high Stuart Weitzman boots, and added a pair of sunglasses, while modeling the same half-up hairstyle and silver hoop earrings she was pictured with earlier in the day.  To complete the look, Jessica carried a large briefcase-style Louis Vuitton bag.    Jessica has been working as a fashion contributor for GMA since early 2019, and has teamed up with the show on a series of challenges and specials, including planning a dream destination wedding for one lucky couple.   That then set the scene for Jessica to announce that she had secured her own Netflix series, I Do, Redo, in which she helps couples who move on from their disastrous weddings by planning the perfect ceremony for them.  The show is set to premiere on March 22, however the first trailer was shown during the Oscars earlier this month.  'Your wedding day should be one of the highlights of your life,' Jessica narrates at the start of the preview clip. 'But sometimes, things don’t go as planned.'  The video then cuts to footage of a storm brewing on the day of a wedding. 'That's where I come in,' Jessica continues. 'Helping couples and families redo that special day they’ve always dreamt of.'  The trailer goes on to show clips of couples exchanging vows, brides trying on dresses, and Jessica tearing up while attending one of the weddings she helped plan.  However on-air wedding planning is not the only thing that has occupied Jessica's time of late. On Saturday it was revealed that the mother-of-three has begun making plans for a series of international charities in the Duke and Duchess of Sussex's name. The stylist, whose children were pageboys and a flower girl at the Duke and Duchess's wedding in 2018, registered the website sussexglobalcharities.com last Wednesday through her own charity the Shoebox Project Foundation, which supports vulnerable women.  It comes after the Duke and Duchess were told they would no longer be able to use their Sussex Royal brand when they officially quit the monarchy next month.  Earlier this year, The Mail on Sunday revealed how Andrew Meyer, the Duchess's US business manager, registered two websites, archefoundation.com and archefoundation.org, on October 23, 2018 – just eight days after Meghan revealed she was pregnant. In September, he renewed the trademark for The Tig, her lifestyle blog which was shut down in 2017.   
