{ By Sophie Law For Mailonline   Published:  15:36, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8038251/Two-Romanian-burglars-tunnelled-Fleet-Street-jewellers-William-Hill.html }
Two Romanian burglars who stole £300,000 in gems from a Fleet Street jewellers drilled through the wrong wall and accidentally tunnelled into a William Hill betting shop moments before raid, a court heard.  Florin-Cristin Neagu, 46, and Sorin Munteanu, 44, allegedly dug into the basement of George Attenborough & Son on London's Fleet Street before fleeing the country. The men committed a 'sophisticated and daring' burglary over the span of a weekend, using the crowds cheering on the London Landmarks Half Marathon as cover, Southwark Crown Court heard.  But the Romanian nationals are accused of making a drastic mistake when they allegedly accidentally drilled into the neighbouring William Hill betting shop.  They are accused of drilling into secure areas of the store through an adjoining wall in a William Hill betting shop stairwell and painting security cameras with white paint.   They were arrested in their native Romania in July and flown back to the UK the following month to go on trial accused of plotting the audacious raid. A third man, Nicolae Sisca, 46, was arrested before he could escape and has already been sentenced for his involvement, jurors heard.  They allegedly spent the weekend in March 2019 breaking through solid masonry into the secure store before stealing approximately £300,000 worth of jewellery. They then both left the country within 48 hours.  Southwark Crown Court heard three men, including Nicolae Sisca who has already pleaded guilty to burglary and destruction of property, were tracked on CCTV. Footage in court showed a man realising his mistake after making a hole in the wrong shop. Prosecutor Philip Stott showed video which was recorded at 7.20pm on 23 March 2019. He said: 'You can see the panel move and come away. The man crawls out of the hole, moves the bin out of the way, and you'll see he turns around. 'You will see a pair of distinctive red shoes. It's Mr Sisca. He climbs back in through the hole once he realises his mistake. 'Nothing was stolen and there was no other intrusion into William Hill. 'Despite all the reconnaissance and all of the planning, they made a hole in the wrong wall. 'After having climbed back through into the basement stairway, they went to the wall and drilled southwards.' Southwark Crown Court also heard the three men had attempted to conceal their tracks by smearing white paint on security cameras they had scoped out in the two weeks before the burglary. CCTV captured Sisca and Munteanu entering a branch of William Hill, located in the basement of the adjoining building of the jewellers, on 11 March, looking around at cameras and doors. Phillip Stott, prosecuting, said the defendant targeted the luxury high-end jeweller, located on Fleet Street and Chancery Lane.  'The other man, Nicolae Sisca, was arrested close to the time of the offence before he could leave the country and has already pleaded guilty to burglary. That is why he is not before you today,' he told the court. 'George Attenborough & Sons is not the only business in the building. Immediately to the north of 193 Fleet Street is 126 Chancery Lane. That building has a branch of William Hill bookmakers located in the basement. 'The stairs leading down to William Hill immediately adjoin the northern wall of George Attenborough & Sons. 'The wall between 126 Chancery Lane and 193 Fleet Street is solid masonry. As you will see, it was through that wall, from the stairwell leading to William Hill, that access was eventually gained to GA&S.' The prosecutor said there was an added attempt to break into the safe, which contained a further £400,000 of items, but was unsuccessful. A further £16,000 of damage was caused to the shop, the court heard. Mr Stott said Neagu fled the UK by driving the car through the Eurotunnel while Sisca and Munteanu attempted to board a plane from Birmingham International Airport to Bucharest. He said: 'However, due to the existence of an outstanding European Arrest Warrant for an unrelated matter in Italy, Mr Sisca was arrested before he boarded the plane. 'As there was no EAW in respect of Mr Munteanu in existence, he was not stopped. 'While Mr Sisca was detained, DNA was taken from him. It matched a profile obtained from a dry swab that was taken at the top of the stairs of William Hill.' Neagu and Munteanu was extradited from Romania to the UK on 29 August and 22 October, respectively, according to the prosecutor. Mr Stott added: 'Sorin-Marian Munteanu's DNA was taken and it was found to be contained within in a swab taken from a mark on a black plastic earring display stand inside a smashed display case by the entrance to the silver gifts room inside George Attenborough & Sons.' Neagu and Munteanu, who sat in the dock listening to a Romanian interpreter, deny burglary and conspiracy to commit burglary. George Attenborough and Son Jewellers was founded in 1843. It refers to itself as 'one of the United Kingdom's most iconic, traditional jewellers' and 'one of the final vestiges of Victorian England'.  
