business
{ By Jemma Carr For Mailonline   Published:  15:04, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8037601/Residents-Ashford-Kent-say-town-overrun-hairdressers.html }
A town with 28 hairdressers within a mile of each other has been slammed as overrun - while others praised the salons for keeping busy with so much competition.  There are eight hairdressers on a single 200-metre stretch of road in Ashford, Kent, leading some residents to wonder whether locals 'just have good hair'.  Last month - when HD Barbers moved in - the total was brought up to 28 in a town with a population of around 74,000. Resident Angela Lines said the numbers make the town boring. She added: 'There are too many - same as cafes. Bring back shops we can browse around. It will keep the high street alive and browsing leads to sales.   'We've certainly lost our nice market town we used to have.' Not all residents agreed. Ashley Close told KentOnline: 'People should be applauded for starting their own business and making their own money, not whinged at.' NAT'ural Hair, Christophe, Gentlemans Barber, Edge, Master Cutters, Dyson Brown Barbers, Tommy's Barbers, House of Hair, Papa G's Barber, Razor Room, Dyson Brown, HD Barbers, Celly's, Sweeneys, Namuna, AT Barbers, Charisma, Angels, Lounge Hair, KOKO for Men, Man Cave, Spencers Barbers, Melvin & Westleigh Brooks Barbers, Buzz Hair Design for Men, Riz Barber 3, Blossoms Hair and Beauty, Kings Barber and Trend Hair. The high street is crammed with hairdressers all within a few yards of each other, namely: Celly's, Sweeneys, AT, Charisma and Namuna. In Park Street there is NAT'ural Hair, while Christophe, Kings Barber, Gentleman's Barber and Master Cutters are a stone's throw away. There is also Edge - a vegan salon - in Castle Street, run by Janet Maria Clare, 48.  In Bank Street, almost every other shop caters for people's barnets, with Dyson Brown, Tommy's Barbers, House of Hair, The Old English Barber Shop, Papa G's Barber and the Razor Room a minute's walk from each other. There are two hairdressers in the town's Park Mall while County Square shopping centre has a barber - Man Cave - too.  The average age of people in the town is 40 and it has an almost even split between women (51 per cent) and men (49 per cent). Another resident, Louise Day, 39, said the numbers weren't a problem. She said: 'Ideally we'd like a bit more variety but I guess if they're doing well it's hard to complain about it. 'Do people here just have good hair? Maybe.' A staff member at one of the women's salons said: 'At the end of the day they are all busy and they're all making money - maybe that's what High Streets should be like?' There are an estimated 35,000 hairdressers in England, with almost 15 per cent in the south east, according to figures released by the Hair and Beauty Industry Authority. A spokesman for Ashford Borough Council said as long as businesses were opening up, it was a positive sign. He added: 'We support business in the town centre and a varied offer is critical to continue to grow the town centre.' 
