business
{ By Harry Wise For This Is Money    Published:  14:54, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8037757/Digital-ads-help-Daily-Express-owner-Reach-plc-swing-profit.html }
Higher digital advertising revenue and tight cost control helped the Daily Mirror owner Reach plc to swing back into profit last year.   Stronger digital revenue also allowed them to offset a moderate loss in income last year. Revenues at the company, which also owns the Daily Express, fell 3 per cent to £702.5million in 2019 from £723.9million a year earlier. The fall was largely down to a decline in print revenue, which dropped by 7.9 per cent on a like-for-like basis, as the long-term fall in print circulation continued. Decreases in health lottery advertising and the lack of a FIFA World Cup have been blamed by the business for a drop in advertising revenue.  Digital revenue growth helped to mediate this revenue decline though, climbing 13.2 per cent, helping the company swing back into the black, recording a £120.9million pre-tax profit in 2019 as it bounced back from a £119million loss in the previous year.  Chief executive Jim Mullen, who joined the company in August, said that last year was characterised by 'solid financial progress with record growth in audience numbers, consistently good cash generation and a strong balance sheet.' Reach, which also owns a raft of regional titles, also announced a new growth strategy to increase its number of registered customers from under one million to seven million by the end of 2022. It said it plans to increase customer engagement and will look to improve customer experience across its digital titles as it looks to grow membership numbers. Mullen said: 'With our strong balance sheet, cost control and disciplined internal investment, and a print business that is highly cash generative, we have the capability and opportunity to create further value from our trusted reader and customer relationships and thereby further diversify our revenue base.' The figures come days after the News Group Newspapers reported a £68million loss in its latest financial year, as it felt the impact of dwindling print sales. The company's famous titles include newspapers such as the Daily Star and Wales's Western Mail, celebrity magazine OK!, and major regional tabloids such as the Liverpool Echo and Manchester Evening News. They claim to have sold 620 million newspapers last year and to have a bigger monthly online audience than News UK.  High profile campaigns fronted by Reach plc titles last year include the Scottish Daily Record's calls to decriminalise drug use.  The tabloid called on politicians in a highly-publicised front page headline last July to 'stop treating vulnerable citizens as criminals' and to deal with drug addiction as a health problem rather than a criminal justice issue.  Scotland has the most drug deaths of any European country on a per capita basis and has more than doubled from 527 in 2013 to 1,187 in 2018.  The rate of drug-related deaths was also over triple the rate for the UK as a whole. Since the Daily Record headline, the Scottish National Party backed support for the policy at its annual party conference, while Westminster's Scottish Affairs Committee called for decriminalisation in a report the following month. Other campaigns run by Reach plc titles include the Manchester Evening News's 'Power up the North' campaign to reduce the north-south divide, and WalesOnline's crusade against plastics. Both issues surrounding plastics and the north-south divide played prominent roles in the general election campaign.      
