business
{ By Louise Ayling For Daily Mail Australia and Australian Associated Press   Published:  14:48, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8042367/Water-bursts-ceiling-Woolworths-supermarket-monster-storm-batters-Perth-downing-trees-cars.html }
A brief but ferocious storm has flooded shops, uprooted trees and sparked fires after smashing Perth on Tuesday afternoon. The Bureau of Meteorology issued a severe thunderstorm alert for the greater Perth area on Tuesday afternoon as wind speeds of up to 126km/h were recorded at Kalannie at 4.17pm.  The Department of Fire and Emergency Services said the State Emergency Service received more than 120 requests for help, including reports of trees falling on cars.  The Morley Galleria shopping centre was flooded, with water seen gushing through the ceiling, while the roof of Ocean Reef Shopping Centre was also damaged.   A lightning strike was believed to have caused a fire near the Kwinana Freeway in Baldivis, 40km north of Perth.   Power poles and trees were downed across the city, causing widespread outages for more than 18,000 customers across the metropolitan areas. Another 4000 homes and business outside of the metropolitan area were also impacted.  More than 14 millimeters of rain fell on the city in just half-an-hour. 'The storm cell has brought heavy rains and lightning that has damaged poles and in some cases brought down powerlines," a Western Power spokesman said. Trees smashed through the windshield of cars, while a car was seen floating in rapidly rising floodwaters around the suburb of Mindarie, reports ABC news.  Uber driver Tanya Shields narrowly avoided being crushed after a tree came down on her car while she was driving along Abernathy Road in Lathlain.  The car had been ripped out of the median strip in the middle of the road by the strong winds.  A passerby freed her from the written off car using an axe. Several primary schools were also impacted by the weather, with closures slated for Wednesday to conduct repairs.   Somerly Primary School suffered significant damage after a number of classrooms were flooded, while fallen trees damaged buildings at the Lathlain Primary School and West Leederville Primary School.   The storm quickly passed, but the Department of Fire and Emergency Services is urging residents to stay away from flooded waterways and take care around fallen trees and power lines.   
