{ By Heather Waugh For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:52, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8038263/Jessica-Simpson-reveals-daughter-Maxwell-seven-designs-dresses-stuffed-Animals.html }
Jessica Simpson has revealed her eldest daughter Maxwell could be following in her fashion designer footsteps. The 39-year-old author spoke at the Create & Cultivate event in Los Angeles and opened up about how motherhood has impacted her clothing empire. 'My oldest daughter is seven and she’s very into sketching,' she said while adding that Maxwell assumes Jessica can take the sketch into her office and create the design for her in a day. 'But it’s actually a really beautiful and adorable thing,' Jessica explained. 'Like right now, she’s really into her stuffed animals and dressing her stuffed animals. So we have to have like a wedding coming up for her stuffed animals that are puppies. A fake puppy wedding with all gowns that she designed. It’s really pretty cute. So now maybe we need to go into some dog business or something.' The mother-of-three revealed it's how a lot of her ideas come about. 'That is how stuff happens with us. When I was pregnant I was like, "Oh my gosh, there is nothing out there that is comfortable and cute." Like why in the world can’t I find a pair of jeans that I can be in all day long that are still fashion?' the singer said. 'I mean this last pregnancy I couldn’t put a pair of jeans on or if I tried,' she added. 'But that’s the thing. Through your experiences, through your life experiences, you can know what you have, you want to expand and I’m always brand thinking.' Meanwhile the star has said she 'can't believe' the response to her recently released memoir, Open Book, as she admits it was very 'liberating' to write. She said: 'It's unbelievable - I can't even believe it. I seriously have been in complete shock. I don't even understand. I'm appreciative for sure. Honestly, I think people ... really just want to know why, when, how.  'I have really been quiet for the past 10 years ... It was time to really understand my entire life. The way people have been reacting to it is exactly how I would want my best friends to read it. It's very liberating to be open. With my openness comes confidence.' Jessica knows she has 'flaws' and has made 'mistakes' but she sees that as a very 'humbling experience' rather than negatively. She added: 'We all have our flaws. We all have made mistakes. Leading with those mistakes and owning those flaws, is a very humbling experience. It puts you out there where you have nothing to hide ... There is so much life to live with clarity that is so much more impactful than to hide behind the darkness. I'm really just a normal, everyday girl that goes through the exact same things as everyone else. It's giving people courage themselves to open up.' The mother-of-three - who has Birdie, 11 months, Ace, six, and Maxwell, seven with her husband Eric Johnson - loves to empower women and says it is one of the 'most important things in her life'. Speaking to Extra TV, she shared: 'I am here to celebrate all women and all people that are trying to understand the world of business. Empowering women is probably one of the most important things in my life, because I have lived my life being empowered by my mother.'   
