business
{ By Heidi Parker For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:36, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8038261/Playboy-model-Heather-Elizabeth-Parkhurst-asks-Lisa-Vanderpump-pitbull-puppy.html }
Playboy model Heather Elizabeth Parkhurst almost lost one of her arms when her two pitbulls attacked her at home in a frightening incident over the weekend. Now she is asking Lisa Vanderpump of Real Housewives Of Beverly Hills and Vanderpump Rules fame, to help her find a home for her younger pitbull Shorty, aged nine months. The puppy was one of the animals that repeatedly bit her arm when fighting with her older dog. Her finace also complained the canine barked too much in their apartment. Elizabeth has reached out to Lisa's doggy shop Vanderpump Dogs in LA. And the blonde has also called the Blair Foundation and Pit Bulls for Parolees. She does not want the pitbull put down, because she is an animal advocate, but according to TMZ, there is some worry for her safety. It is not clear if she will find a new home for her older dog as well.  The 52-year-old blonde beauty - who has appeared in the films Beverly Hills Cop III and Alpha Dog - was petting one of her pitbulls last week when the other one became jealous. Parkhurst was unfortunately stuck in the middle of their fight. And the pinup shared several bloody Images of her dog bites taken from her hospital bed. Her injuries were so bad she required surgery.  The attack happened on Friday night at her home in West Hollywood. The Beverly Hills, 90210 guest star was petting her young pitbull named Baby. But then her older pitbull Buddha, who is eight years old, started to feel jealous and started growling.  The tension grew between Baby and Buddha and they started attacking each other in a scary brawl. WARNING - GRAPHIC PICTURES BELOW!  Heather tried to stop the dogs and that is when her right hand and arm got bitten and scratched, as the images show. The star was taken to the hospital to treat the serious injuries, according to TMZ. After she was admitted, the doctor told her she had 'crushed bones in her hand, torn ligaments and other deep cuts throughout her arm,' the site added. Her fiance, Mark Nason, spoke to the site, adding that 'doctors inserted pins and stitched up her arm but she remains hospitalized.' And he also said that she will 'require nearly a year of therapy to recover.'  The dogs will not be taken away as they the site said they are 'huge pit bull advocates.' This comes five years after her breasts are destroyed by a flesh-eating virus.   In a 2015 report, she said she lost both of her breasts to a flesh-eating disease, after a procedure to reduce the size of her implants went terribly wrong. She went under the knife again in the hopes of reinvigorating her career and snagging 'boobilicous roles'. On the E! reality series Botched, Heather asked Los Angeles-based surgeons Paul Nassif and Terry Dubrow to reconstruct her shriveled breasts, which she referred to as 'zombie boobs'. 'My whole career has been based around my breasts and when that was taken away from me my career was taken away from me,' she explained to the cameras. Heather, who was grew up in San Francisco, moved to Los Angeles to become an actress, where started to feel the industry pressure to change her body. She decided to get breast implants and go from an A cup to a DD cup to give herself a leg up on her competition. Her large breasts helped her land bit roles playing beautiful women on popular television shows, including Married... With Children. 'My number one competitor was Pamela Anderson,' Heather said of the former Baywatch star for roles, who is also known for her ample bosoms. Despite her success, Heather began to second guess her decision when she realized she wanted to audition for more serious roles like 'secretary to the president'. 'When you are in this entertainment business, you never think you are good enough. That really messed with my head,' she noted. Heather decided she wanted a smaller chest, but after her reduction, her breasts were lopsided and there was rippling on her skin. Her surgeon has promised her that his new procedure, in which he put screws in her rib cage, would give her the breasts she wanted. After the surgery, her breasts looked great, but she felt deathly ill and her temperature began to spike. Her doctor immediately sent her to the hospital where she was diagnosed with a flesh-eating disease caused by Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Heather came very close to dying and had to have her implants taken out. It took her a full year and half to recover, however, there was nothing left to her breasts except shriveled skin. 'Now that my breasts are out, I am not who I used to be at all,' she said. 'I feel like I lost my whole career.' With the support of her friend Felix, Heather met with Dr Dubrow and Dr Nassif for a consultation, sharing her traumatic story. 'That's when plastic surgery can kill,' Dr Dubrow said of her infection. Dr Dubrow noticed that she was wearing breast prosthesis that appeared to be a size D, causing him to initially worry that Heather would want a voluptuous chest that was not possible. However, Heather candidly explained: 'I am just locked into having breasts.' 'It's so rare to have a patient be so realistic about the outcome,' Dr Dubrow said of Heather's expectations for surgery. Dr Dubrow agreed to take on her case, although Heather had feared that he was going to be sent away like other doctors had done to her before.         
