business
{ By Jack Elsom and Ross Ibbetson and Tim Stickings and Rita Sobot For Mailonline and Afp   Published:  14:28, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8038243/Italian-bus-driver-sparks-coronavirus-panic-France.html }
The European Union is under mounting pressure to suspend the passport-free Schengen travel zone to stop coronavirus spreading across the continent. Seven deaths and 229 infections in Italy has fanned panic in neighbouring countries and sparked a clamour for governments to clamp down on border checks. But despite warning of a 'moderate to high risk' of more clusters sprouting up on European soil, Brussels today confirmed it would not be freezing Schengen arrangements 'for the moment'. The 26 Schengen states - including Italy - have abolished border controls, meaning people can pass seamlessly from country to country.  Italy's northern regions of Lombardy and Veneto have suffered the brunt of the nation's outbreak, and have been added to a global list with China, Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore and South Korea as coronavirus hotbeds. Some 55,000 residents have been placed under lockdown, with internal police checkpoints, schools shut and public events axed, including the popular Venice carnival.  As officials in Rome firefight the country's epidemic, a former minister has urged the European Commission to temporarily scrap Schengen. Former trade minister Michele Geraci told the BBC Italy should 'reintroduce passport checks, so go out of Schengen for the time being' while screening people at the border.  Annalisa Tardino MEP of the Northern League, one of Italy's largest parties, echoed this call for passport-free travel to be halted.  A risk assessment by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control noted that 'the virus causing COVID-19 can transmit rapidly'.  The coronavirus cases in Italy - the first major outbreak in Europe - has seen neighbouring countries take drastic action to leap on suspected infected. In France today, an unwell coach driver sparked panic at a Lyon bus station after arriving with virus symptoms from Italy.   French police impounded the FlixBus coach after it arrived from Milan with the driver reportedly suffering a bad cough and he was rushed to quarantine.    Fearing the infection could have breached the border, officials in Paris have ordered French citizens returning from Lombardy and Veneto to self-isolate.  And in Mauritius, dozens of airline passengers from Lombardy and Veneto who had just landed were told to return home or face quarantine.    Three deaths were confirmed in Lombardy today after three men aged 80, 84 and 88 died from the virus, bringing Italy's death toll to six. At least one was already in hospital while another had recently suffered a heart attack.   Local media reported that another woman had died at a Brescia hospital, but this has not been confirmed by Lombardy health authorities.     But only 10 extra diagnoses were today announced by health officials in Rome, who appealed for calm.  The outbreak rocked Italy's financial markets and by close saw 5.4 per cent wiped off the country's stock exchange.  Top-flight football matches will also be played in empty stadiums after sports minister Vincenzo Spadafora announced fans will be banned from attending matches.  It comes as governments around the globe crank up efforts to prevent the spread of the highly contagious bug which has infected 79,000 and killed over 2,600 worldwide.  The head of the World Health Organisation today warned of a 'potential pandemic', but still refused to rank coronavirus above epidemic levels. The chief of the World Health Organization today warned the planet must prepare in case the coronavirus crisis becomes a pandemic.  Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus admitted the sudden spike of COVID-19 cases in Iran, Italy and South Korea in the past 24 hours is 'deeply concerning'.  'We must focus on containing while doing everything we can to prepare for a potential pandemic,' he said.  The WHO had earlier maintained that the outbreak would not officially be declared a pandemic. The body, headquartered in Geneva in Switzerland, argues a pathogen must spread easily between humans across the world before it is called a pandemic.   The WHO said the current crisis is a cluster of cases in 36 countries and territories, which can be traced back to Asia. Instead, the UN-body said the crisis has already been a public health emergency of international concern – the highest warning level – for a month.  Nonetheless, fears of a pandemic have mounted with experts warning that the world is reaching a coronavirus 'tipping point' with nearly 80,000 confirmed cases and 2,600 deaths.  At the Lyon bus station, French health officials said they were 'evaluating the situation' of the passengers barricaded there, who had come from Milan and stopped in Turin and Grenoble.  One couple said they were kept on board the bus for more than two hours before being issued with face masks and allowed to disembark after they were checked by doctors.  The couple were told they would be contacted again if the driver, who was taken to hospital for tests, turned out to be carrying the virus.  'A bus is undergoing an inspection. Our teams are at the scene and an assessment is underway,' a spokeswoman for the regional health agency said.  Police put up a security cordon around the bus and moved the passengers into an area of the Lyon Perrache bus station where they would not come into contact with other travellers. The driver was taken to hospital, security sources said, while the LyonMag news site reported that the driver was an Italian who was taken to hospital for tests because he had a bad cough.  In a sign of the nervousness triggered by the global spread of the virus, a Paris police station was closed to the public for several hours Monday after a Chinese woman became unwell on the premises.  In the separate scare in Mauritius, the 224 passengers and crew on an Alitalia flight from Rome were held up at the airport after arriving in the Indian Ocean country today.  The people on board the plane were allowed to disembark the aircraft over more than an hour after their landing and faced rigorous screening, Mauritian media reported.  Passengers from Lombardy and Veneto were told they would have to go into quarantine if they stayed in Mauritius, Italian media said.  The stand-off ended when 40 people from the two northern regions decided to return home to Italy, the airline said in a statement. The others were allowed into Mauritius.  A flight was being organised back to Italy 'although nobody declared symptoms of illness', the Alitalia statement said.    Alitalia added that the decisions by the Mauritian authorities had not been disclosed to the carrier before landing and that it had alerted authorities.  One British Airways flight to Milan was delayed this morning after a passenger left the plane shortly before take-off at Heathrow, allegedly because they feared they would catch the virus.  BA said it was 'reviewing the situation' today, with many Britons returning to school or work after half-term holidays abroad, but the UK government insisted that 'the threat to the British public is currently low'.   One man who returned to the UK from Codogno - one of the towns in lockdown - said he called the NHS today but was told to 'continue as usual'.  Diego Gullo has placed himself in a voluntary quarantine and voiced doubts about the UK's response after the NHS suggested his wife and children should go to a walk-in centre.    Back in Italy, armed personnel were today guarding the closed Duomo cathedral in Milan and stopping drivers at roadblocks in Lombardy, including near the town of Casalpusterlengo where one of the virus victims died.  Supermarket shelves and train carriages were empty this morning as panic-buying Italians prepared to stay at home to fend off the virus.  The wealthy Lombardy region which includes Milan is the worst-affected area, while 25 people have been infected in neighbouring Veneto which includes Venice - where health workers were disinfecting the city today.   In Venice, health workers were today spraying streets, swimming pools, plazas, pavements and bridges in what the local council describes as 'exceptional measures'.  Moscow has ordered police to raid hotels, dorms, apartment buildings and businesses in search of Chinese people as Russia attempts to stem the spread of coronavirus. Officials also authorized the use of facial recognition technology to find those suspected of evading a 14-day self-quarantine period upon their arrival in Russia.  'Conducting raids is an unpleasant task, but it is necessary, for the potential carriers of the virus as well,' Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin said in a statement.  Metro workers have been instructed to stop passengers from China and ask them to fill out questionnaires asking why they were in Russia, reports say.  The forms also ask passengers whether they observed a two-week quarantine, where they are staying and what their current health condition is.  An email that leaked over the weekend suggested that police would also be alerted to Chinese nationals on public transport, though authorities claimed it was a fake.  Human rights advocates have condemned the targeting of Chinese nationals as racial profiling, not an effective epidemic control strategy.    Russia has reported two cases. Both patients, Chinese nationals hospitalized in Siberia, recovered quickly.  Weeks before, Russia shut down the country's long land border with China, suspended all trains and most flights between the two countries.  The cleaning is expected to take in gondolas and other forms of public transport. One by one, ferry services to the lagoon city are also being cancelled, following the closure of museums and schools with immediate effect. City leaders say they will be announcing more measures later today.   As the panic spread last night, Austria halted trains from crossing the Alps into Italy after two German women reported a fever on board, although they later tested negative.  The outbreak has also forced the stoppage of high-profile events including the Venice Carnival, Milan Fashion Week and Serie A football fixtures.  Four top-flight matches were called off on Sunday, with plans being made to play future games behind closed doors if the crisis does not ease.   One of the new deaths announced today was an 84-year-old man who died in a Bergamo hospital after being admitted for a different illness but then discovering he had the virus.  The second was an 88-year-old man from Caselle Landi, in Lombardy. It was not immediately clear whether he had any previous health problems.  The third was described in Italian media as an 80-year-old man who had recently had a heart attack and died in hospital in Milan.   Lombardy, the worst-hit region of Italy, announced 53 new cases of coronavirus overnight, bringing the total there to 165 in just four days.  Some 25 people had the virus in Veneto, while a handful of infections were also recorded in the adjacent regions of Piedmont and Emilia Romagna.  The three other people who have died of the illness were also elderly and at least two of them had serious underlying health problems.  'To be honest, nobody thought the spread would be so aggressive. The illness is not serious, but it must not be underestimated,' Attilio Fontana, the regional governor of Lombardy, told RTL radio.  Authorities across the north have shut schools, universities, museums and cinemas for at least a week in the most drastic quarantine measures that any country has taken outside Asia.  Italian shares fell 4.2 per cent on Monday morning, with businesses, with Banco BPM which has its roots in Lombardy plunging nearly seven per cent.  Analysts say the outbreak could shunt Italy's fragile economy into its fourth recession in 12 years, with government bonds also taking a swift hit.   Italy became the first European country to report one of its nationals died from the virus on Friday. Two more fatalities came over the weekend but Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte urged people 'not to give in to panic', and asked them to follow the advice of health authorities.     Conte has said that residents in 11 quarantined towns could face weeks of lockdown in an effort to sit out the virus.    Schools have been closed as a precaution in Lombardy, Veneto, Piedmont, Emilia Romagna and Friuli Venezia Giulia.  Piedmont shares a border with France, but French authorities have said there is no need to close borders in response to the spread of virus in Italy.  Slovenia, which also borders Italy, has asked vacationers returning from ski resorts in northern Italy to be particularly vigilant for symptoms.  In the UK, British Airways said today it was 'reviewing the situation' while a Number 10 spokesman offered no update on Italy but said the threat to the British public was low.  Diego Gullo, who flew from Milan to London Gatwick on Thursday after visiting his mother in hospital in Codogno at the centre of the crisis, said the NHS had not recommended any quarantine measures.  Speaking from his home in north London, he told Sky News that he and his family had nonetheless placed themselves in quarantine.  'I haven't had any specific advice, there is no check in the UK,' he said.   'We did call 111 and we were not told anything in particular, they didn't suggest to do anything special, they suggested to just continue as usual despite my details being very explicit that I was coming back from that area. 'I also booked a visit for the children and the wife and they were suggested to go to a walk-in centre tomorrow, which I don't think is probably the best move.'  Describing conditions in Codogno, he said: 'Everything is closed. My nephew is not going to school, he's staying home for 14 days. My brother is not taking public transport if he has to go to work.  'My mother, my sister-in-law, they're all staying in the house. At the hospital there was no specific warning in relation to the coronavirus, it was just business as usual.'  The Foreign Office's advice to British travellers is to 'follow the instructions of local authorities' in affected areas, but there is no general warning not to travel.  Ireland has gone further, advising its citizens 'not to travel to affected areas'. British Airways, easyJet and Ryanair said their flights were operating as normal today.  Meanwhile, Israel has added travellers from Italy to a list of people who may need to go into quarantine if they arrive in Israel with possible virus symptoms.   Last night Austria held up a train carrying around 300 people in the Brenner Pass, which crosses the Alps from Austria to Italy.  The train was halted amid panic over two German women who had flu-like symptoms, but was later given the all-clear after they tested negative.      Experts have warned of an 'uncontrollable spread' of the virus.   'Over the weekend we've seen new cases of coronavirus infection across Asia and now in Europe,' said Dr Simon Clarke, a microbiology expert at the University of Reading.  'Worryingly, it seems that the virus can pass from person-to-person without symptoms, making it extremely difficult track, regardless of what health authorities do.  'While it remains the case that most people who become infected will have light symptoms or none at all, such uncontrollable spread would present a serious risk to vulnerable individuals.'     Meanwhile, a virus expert from the World Health Organization said the coronavirus could be the 'Disease X' which experts have warned about. The name is given to a future disease which could break out among humans and wreak havoc across the world. 'Dr Marion Koopmans, a virologist for the WHO, said: 'Whether it will be contained or not, this outbreak is rapidly becoming the first true pandemic challenge that fits the disease X category.'   After Italy recorded its first death on Friday, the director general of the World Health Organisation Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus spoke of a narrowing 'window of opportunity.'  Sharp rises in Italy, Iran and South Korea have brought this window into stark focus as the global infection toll soared to 79,565 today, including more than 2,600 deaths.     Most of the cases in Italy can be traced back to a 38-year-old man in the town of Codogno whom authorities have called 'patient one'. Investigators are reconstructing minute by minute the man's movements over the past few weeks - where he slept, ate, walked - in a bid to trace everyone he could have come into contact with. 'We had the most unfortunate situation possible; the outbreak of an epidemic in a hospital,' infectious disease expert Massimo Galli told the Corriere della Sera daily. 'Unfortunately, in these cases, a hospital can turn into a frightening amplifier of contagion,' he said..  The 38-year old had not travelled to China and doctors failed to treat him with the necessary precautions. The man initially believed to have given him the virus after returning from Shanghai later tested negative. 'We still do not know who brought the coronavirus to Codogno,' Galli said.     China has today declared a ban on eating wild animals, a practice believed to be responsible for the outbreak.  The immediate and 'comprehensive' ban was approved by the country's top legislative committee today.   The ban is aimed at 'prohibiting the illegal wildlife trade, abolishing the bad habit of overconsumption of wildlife, and effectively protecting the lives and health of the people,' state television said. Previous temporary bans have been put in place, including after the SARS virus killed hundreds of people in China and Hong Kong in 2002-03 and was also traced to wild animal consumption. However, that ban was short-lived and conservationists have long accused China of allowing a cruel trade in wild animals as exotic menu items or for use in dubious medicines. Today's decision was made by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC), which oversees the country's rubber-stamp legislature. Chinese health officials have said the virus likely emerged from a market in the central city of Wuhan that sold wild animals as food. The coronavirus has killed 2,592 people in China, infected some 77,000 others and paralysed the country's economy.  Elsewhere, Afghanistan, Kuwait and Bahrain have today confirmed their first virus cases, with all three countries saying their first patients had recently returned from Iran.    On Saturday night, four Britons evacuated from the coronavirus-stricken Diamond Princess tested positive for the illness after 32 passengers from the cruise liner held in Japan arrived for quarantine at Arrowe Park Hospital on the Wirral. Two of the patients are in the Royal Hallamshire Hospital in Sheffield, one is in the Royal Liverpool University Hospital and a fourth was taken to the Royal Victoria Infirmary in Newcastle.  While the European Union urged there was 'no need to panic', health experts warned that in the last 24 hours the world has been brought to the brink. Paul Hunter, professor in medicine at the University of East Anglia, said: 'The director general of the WHO has recently spoken of a narrowing of the window of opportunity to control the current epidemic.  'The tipping point after which our ability to prevent a global pandemic ends seems a lot closer after the past 24 hours.' He noted that despite numbers declining in China, where the outbreak began in December, the weekend's developments were 'extremely concerning.'    Dr Robin Thompson, junior research fellow in mathematical epidemiology at the University of Oxford, told The Guardian: 'This is an important stage of the coronavirus outbreak ...  Fast isolation of even mild cases in affected areas is important for preventing substantial person-to-person transmission in Europe. 'It is critical that public health guidelines are followed.'   Fifty people have died of coronavirus in the Iranian city of Qom, a lawmaker has said - despite official regime figures showing only 12 deaths in all of Iran.  Ahmad Amiriabadi Farahani told a session of Parliament in Tehran that 50 people had died in Qom in the last 11 days.  'I think the performance of the administration in controlling the virus has not been successful,' he said.  'None of the nurses have access to proper protective gears,' Farahani said, adding that some health care specialists had left the city.  'So far, I have not seen any particular action to confront corona by the administration.'   Health ministry spokesman Iraj Harirchi rejected the Qom lawmaker's claims, insisting the death toll from the virus remains at 12. However, he raised the number of confirmed cases from the virus to 61. Some 900 other suspected cases are being tested, he said. 'No one is qualified to discuss this sort of news at all,' Haririchi said, adding that lawmakers have no access to coronavirus statistics.   South Korea today reported another surge in cases, with another 161 patients diagnosed - most of them linked to the secretive religious sect at the centre of the outbreak - bringing the total to 763 of whom seven have died.  The country has also postponed the start of the new football season, with all K-League fixtures pushed back after officials said the outbreak had 'entered a serious phase'.      Of South Korea's 161 new cases, 129 were related to the Shincheonji Church of Jesus, a secretive sect based in Daegu which is widely regarded as a cult.  Officials are also investigating a possible link between churchgoers and a spike in infections at a hospital in nearby Cheongdo. Five of South Korea's seven virus deaths have been linked to the hospital in Cheongdo, where a slew of infections were confirmed among patients in a mental ward.  Officials have voiced hope that they they can contain the outbreak in Daegu, but there are also signs of the virus spreading across the country, including a number of cases in the capital Seoul.   Health minister Kim Gang-lip said that health officials plan to test all of Daegu's residents exhibiting cold-like symptoms, which he said would be about 28,000 people.  'In Daegu, the number of new cases that are being confirmed by tests is quite large, and if we fail to effectively stem community transmissions in this area, there would be a large possibility [that it] spreads nationwide,' he said. The national government has shuttered schools, cancelled events, and asked companies to scatter working hours and keep employees at home if they experience coughs or other respiratory symptoms.   Seoul's mayor Park Won-soon has also scattered the working hours of some 40,000 city employees to ease transit congestion and warned of sterner action against protesters who defied a ban on rallies.    Iran's confirmed death toll yesterday rose to eight, prompting travel bans from neighbouring countries.  Bahrain and Kuwait both revealed their first cases of the virus today, with both countries saying that the patients had recently entered from Iran.   Along with Italy, Iran has begun introducing the sort of containment measures previously seen only in China, which has put tens of millions of people under lockdown in Hubei province, the outbreak's epicentre.  On Sunday, China's President Xi Jinping called the epidemic the 'largest public health emergency' in the country's history.   'This is a crisis for us and it is a big test,' Xi said during remarks carried by state television. In a rare admission, at a meeting to coordinate the fight against the virus, Xi added that China must learn from 'obvious shortcomings exposed' during its response. The WHO has praised Beijing for its handling of the epidemic, but China has been criticised at home for silencing early warnings from a whistleblower doctor who later died from the virus.  'The rapid increase in reported cases in Italy over the past two days is of concern,' World Health Organization spokesperson Tarik Jasarevic said. Not all reported cases seem to have clear epidemiological links, such as travel history to China or contact with a confirmed case, Jasarevic added. 'At this stage, we need to focus on limiting further human to human transmission.' Iran ordered the closure of schools, universities and cultural centres across 14 provinces following eight deaths - the most outside East Asia. The outbreak in the Islamic Republic surfaced Wednesday and quickly grew to 43 confirmed infections, a sudden rise that prompted regional travel restrictions. Armenia's Prime Minister Nikol Pachinian said his country will close its border with Iran and suspend flights. East Anglia Prof. Hunter said the situation in Iran has 'major implications' for the Middle East. 'It is unlikely that Iran will have the resources and facilities to adequately identify cases and adequately manage them if case numbers are large,' Prof. Hunter said. Pakistan and Turkey announced the closure of land crossings with Iran while Afghanistan said it was suspending travel to the country.  The outbreak in China remains concentrated in the city of Wuhan - locked down one month ago - where the virus is believed to have emanated from a live animal market in December. China's infection rate has slowed, but flip-flopping over counting methods has sown confusion over its data. There also was growing concern over the difficulty of detecting the virus.  Japan on Sunday confirmed a woman who tested negative and disembarked from the virus-stricken Diamond Princess cruise ship later tested positive. Similarly in Israel, authorities confirmed that a second Israeli citizen who returned from the ship had tested positive. They were among 11 Israelis allowed off the ship and flown home after initially testing negative. Japan has been criticised over its handling of cases aboard the vessel quarantined off Yokohama. A third passenger died Sunday, Japan's health ministry said, without specifying if it was as a result of the virus.   
