business
{ By Latoya Gayle For Mailonline   Published:  12:35, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8037509/Wealth-expert-reveals-Harry-Meghan-join-Rich-List-DECADE.html }
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are certainly have plenty of money in the bank, but an expert has predicted the couple could reach the wealthiest echelon's of UK society after Megxit.   Robert Watts who is the compiler of The Sunday Times Rich List, has examined the Duke, 35, and Duchess, 38, of Sussex's potential to join the listing, which features those who have an extensive fortunes made up of property, finances, land, shares and publicly quoted companies. 'You can't underestimate the international appeal of being a royal - and the appeal is even bigger in the US, Canada and the rest of the world,' the London-based financial journalist told Hello! magazine. 'The couple already have an eight-figure fortune - perhaps one as large as £20m - but I think it's possible that in ten years' time, Prince Harry and Meghan could make it on to the Sunday Times Rich List with £500 million and £1 billion in the longer term.'  The Duke and Duchess, while incredibly well off, are not yet at Rich List level, which last year required contenders to have a fortune of at least £120 million.   Robert compared the couple's commercial power and relatability to the Beckhams, who appeared on last year's Rich List with £355 million. He said Harry and Meghan's 'first years will be pivotal' for their earnings, but they must carefully consider the public when choosing which opportunities to embrace. The wealth expert predicts that the Duchess could 'quadruple' the estimated £37,000 she earned while starring in Suits, if she goes back to acting. However, he added it would be wise for the pair to spend time carefully developing their brand instead of accepting every opportunity that arises.  Robert describes the union of a British Prince and a Hollywood actress as 'something special', that could open up the world to them.  Since the Duke and Duchess of Sussex announced that they will be revising their roles to live a more independent family life earlier this year, how they will brand themselves has attracted much speculation. In a recent statement on their website, the couple revealed they will stop using the term 'royal' from spring - but insist they will continue to have HRH titles although they aren't 'actively using' them. A number of trademark applications that the pair had made for items including stationery, books and clothing have been withdrawn, after the agreed not to use Sussex Royal in their business endeavours.   They will stop receiving funds from the sovereign grant on 31st March, in addition to having their office at Buckingham Palace closed when they stop carrying out official engagements on behalf of the Queen. However, the couple still have a few official engagements in their diaries before Megxit is complete.   The couple are set to fly from Canada to the UK to carry out a number of engagements towards the end of February, before joining the Royal Family at the Commonwealth Day service at Westminster Abbey on March 9.   
