business
{ By Camilla Canocchi and Simon Lambert For This Is Money   Published:  14:46, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8042681/Tesco-puts-1-800-jobs-risk-Britain-buys-bread.html }
Tesco has revealed 1,800 jobs could be cut in an overhaul of its bakeries as Britain buys less bread. The supermarket giant said that customers are buying fewer traditional loaves of bread and turning to wraps, bagels and flatbread instead, denting its traditional in-store bakeries. Tesco announced today that it will change its bakery space and range from May to meet changing demand - including less fresh bread baking from scratch in-store - and up to 1,816 workers could lose their jobs. Jason Tarry, UK & ROI CEO of Tesco, said: ‘We need to adapt to changing customer demand and tastes for bakery products so that we continue to offer customers a market-leading bakery range in store. ‘We know this will be very difficult for colleagues who are impacted, and our priority is to support them through this process. We hope that many will choose to stay with us in alternative roles.’ Shoppers in Britain have been buying less bread in recent years as they switch to lower carbohydrate diets. Meanwhile, changing tastes mean others are choosing to shun the traditional white or wholemeal sliced loaf and opt for sourdough and artisan breads, or flatbreads, wraps and bagels. Tesco said that the impact of this was significant enough to need to revamp its traditional shop bakeries.  Tesco will put less traditional loaves of bread on its shelves and dedicate more space to more popular baked goods, including bigger regional bakery ranges in partnership with small local suppliers. It will continue to bake from scratch in 257 Tesco stores, but in 201 other stores only the most popular products will be baked fresh with other items part-baked. A further 58 stores will switch to ‘full bake-off’, where all bakery products are delivered pre-prepared and then baked and finished in-store. In a statement, the supermarket said: 'Due to some stores doing less scratch baking, as well as the simplified routines these changes will bring, we will unfortunately need fewer colleagues to work in these areas.  'As a result, there are 1,816 bakery colleagues being put at risk of redundancy.  'At this difficult time, our priority will be to support those colleagues impacted, including finding an alternative role from the many thousands of vacancies we will have available across our store networks between now and May, for those who wish to stay with us.' The news emerged on the same day that Tesco waved goodbye to its China business as it offloaded its remaining stake to its joint venture partner for £275million.  The UK's biggest supermarket, which has been diminishing its presence in Asia, has struggled to crack the Chinese market. Today it said it has agreed to sell its 20 per cent stake in the Gain Land joint venture to a unit of its state-run partner China Resources Holdings.    'The disposal allows Tesco to further simplify and focus the business on its core operations,' it said in a short statement. Tesco combined its 131 stores Chinese stores with partner CRH's almost 3,000 sites in 2014.   The exit from China follows that from South Korea in 2015, when it sold the business for £4billion to help shore up the balance sheet following an accounting scandal.  In December last year, it said it was considering to sell its Thai and Malaysian businesses after an approach by an unnamed buyer, although those businesses still remain unsold.  Now that the supermarket has exited China too, a possible exit from Thailand and Malaysia would reduce Tesco's non-UK operations to central Europe and Ireland.  Tesco has 1,967 stores in Thailand and 74 stores in Malaysia and has been operating in Asia for over 20 years.   The disposal of sites in Asia comes as chief executive Dave Lewis winds down his tenure at the retail firm, before new chief Ken Murphy takes over in the summer.  Tesco shares were down 1.6 per cent at 245.3p in afternoon trading 
