business
{ By James Tapsfield, Political Editor For Mailonline and Jack Maidment, Deputy Political Editor For Mailonline   Published:  11:41, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8037633/France-accuses-Boris-Johnson-trying-BLACKMAIL-EU-trade.html }
France lashed out at Boris Johnson's 'blackmail' tactics today as it warned the EU will not be bounced into a bad trade deal. As the two sides gear up for a bitter battle over post-Brexit terms, the French minister for Europe, Amelie de Montchalin, said the PM could not force the bloc to accept an agreement 'at any cost' by imposing a hard deadline for the talks to be completed. But Mr Johnson reiterated his determination to be free of Brussels' control by the end of the year, saying 'the UK will not extend the transition period or accept any arrangements which subordinate us to EU rules'.  The clashes came ahead of ministers from the remaining 27 EU states meeting in Brussels tomorrow to agree the negotiating mandate for Michel Barnier. They are preparing to take a tough line, with fears that opening up a debate on Gibraltar's sovereignty and the return of the Elgin Marbles could be among the demands.   Ms de Montchalin insisted that her country's farmers, fishermen and businesses would not pay the price for a trade deal to be in place by the end of the year. February 2020: Having left the EU on January 31, the UK is now free to pursue trade deals with whoever it wants. Japan and the US are expected to be Britain's top targets with initial talks likely to start in March. The UK will publish its negotiating mandate for trade talks with the EU on Thursday this week. The EU is expected to publish its own mandate tomorrow. Early March 2020: With the EU's and UK's respective mandates finalised, the two sides should begin trade talks. Britain will also publish a mandate for trade talks with the US in the week beginning March 2. Downing Street hopes this will put the pressure on the EU and force Brussels to work quickly.  March 2020: A group of 40 officials called 'Taskforce Europe' and based out of the Cabinet Office will lead negotiations for the UK. The taskforce will be headed up by David Frost, a diplomat and one-time business lobbyist who was appointed Mr Johnson's Europe adviser last year. Mr Frost is expected to negotiate directly with the EU's chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier.    April/May 2020: Trade talks between the UK and EU - as well as talks with other nations - will intensify. If major progress has not been made with Brussels then there is likely to be increasing pressure on Mr Johnson to agree to extend the transition period. The terms of Britain's divorce from the bloc state that the standstill will finish on December 31 and the PM has been adamant he will not agree to an extension. But the Withdrawal Agreement does include a pressure valve mechanism which states that the transition can be prolonged by one or two years if both sides agree. The EU has already said it does not believe the transition period is long enough to finalise a comprehensive agreement.  June/July 2020: The Withdrawal Agreement states that a decision to extend the transition period must be agreed by both sides before July 1, 2020 if it is to go ahead. The PM is expected to stick to his guns and refuse to agree to a delay, setting the stage for transition to end in December - with or without a full deal in place.  July to November 2020: Assuming no transition extension has been agreed, the second half of the year will be fraught with activity as the UK and EU rush to get everything decided. The UK will also be hoping that by this time agreements with Japan and the US will be taking shape. September/October 2020: Downing Street is thought to want to have a trade deal with Japan in the books. November 3, 2020: The date of the US presidential election. The White House has said it wants a trade agreement with the UK in place before the end of the year and will not want talks to clash with Donald Trump's bid for re-election. That means a US-UK trade deal could be done and dusted before November.  December 2020: The UK and EU will either be on course to end the transition period with a full agreement in place or just a partial agreement. EU bosses have suggested that a lack of time will mean having to prioritise certain issues during talks, potentially leaving others to be resolved at a later date. The UK believes it is possible to get everything done. If no extension has been agreed then the two sides will be going their separate ways regardless. December 31, 2020: The point at which the Brexit transition period will come to an end and EU rules will cease to apply to the UK. January 1, 2021: EU freedom of movement will be brought to an end and the UK's new post-Brexit immigration system will be rolled out.   Tweeting a video of an interview on France 2, she said: 'Just because Boris Johnson wants an agreement at any cost doesn't mean we will sign a bad deal for the French, under pressure of blackmail or the timetable.'  Downing Street dismissed the claim that the end of 2020 deadline was an attempt to 'blackmail' the EU and force the bloc to do a deal quickly. Number 10 also repeated that there will 'absolutely' not be any extension of the 'standstill' transition period beyond the current expiry date of the end of December. The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: 'The UK's primary objective in the negotiations is to ensure that we restore our economic and political independence on January 1 2021.'  That comment will be seen as a clear message to the EU that the UK views splitting from Brussels rules as more important than striking a trade deal.  Meanwhile, in a meeting with Croatian counterpart Andrej Plenkovic - who currently holds the rolling EU presidency - this afternoon, Mr Johnson 'set out the UK's vision based on friendly cooperation between sovereign equals and centred on free trade'. 'The Prime Minister highlighted that we are not seeking a special or bespoke agreement, but rather one like those the EU has already struck with other friendly countries like Canada,' Downing Street said.  'He emphasised that the UK will not extend the transition period or accept any arrangements which subordinate us to EU rules.'  Unless a deal is agreed, the UK will do business with the EU on World Trade Organisation (WTO) terms from January 1 2021. In a further indication that access to UK fishing grounds will be one of the main flashpoints in the talks, the French minister said: 'The fishermen have the right to be protected, they know very well that if we sign a bad deal they will lose enormously.' The UK government is expected to commit to seeking a Canada-style agreement with zero tariffs when its negotiating mandate is published on Thursday. But that could set up a clash with the EU after its chief negotiator Mr Barnier ruled out the possibility that the UK can have the same sort of deal as the North American nation. The Brexit inner cabinet will meet tomorrow morning to sign off on the UK's mandate before it is then published online and laid before Parliament on Thursday. The PM's Europe adviser David Frost and his team are then expected to head to Brussels for the first round of negotiations on March 2. Downing Street insiders have accused the EU of being 'hamstrung by indecision and delay due to the competing interests of different member states' ahead of Tuesday's meeting. The Government is expected to up the pressure on Brussels by publishing its negotiating mandate for a free trade agreement with the US the following week.  Environment Secretary George Eustice drew criticism on Sunday after repeatedly refusing to rule out chlorinated chicken and hormone-treated beef being imported from the States in the deal. Access to the UK market for US agriculture is likely to be one of the White House's key demands during talks.  Ireland and Brussels have warned Boris Johnson not to attempt to dodge the terms of the Brexit divorce deal. There are claims that the PM has ordered his team to find ways to 'get around' the provisions in the Northern Ireland protocol that could mean checks on trade with the mainland UK. No10 insisted today that the government will 'comply with our obligations' under the deal struck with Brussels. Speaking in Dublin, Taoiseach Leo Varadkar said the Withdrawal Agreement was an international treaty and he expected the UK to 'honour that in full'. He said there can be 'no backsliding'.  Businesses have urged Mr Johnson to drive down post-Brexit red tape in a trade deal with the EU as the UK prepares to sign off on its own negotiating demands. A Confederation of British Industry (CBI) report on Monday called on the Prime Minister to ensure a deal with Brussels minimises bureaucracy to ensure a strong economy.  CBI director-general Dame Carolyn Fairbairn said: 'With talks now in touching distance, the CBI has asked employers across the country what practical outcomes they need from the future EU relationship so they can concentrate on what they do best: investing, innovating, creating jobs and supporting a strong economy. 'The message is clear: keep trade easy and minimise red tape.  'For this reason, British firms back many of the Government's objectives set out in the negotiating mandate, such as on zero tariffs and data.'  
