business
{ By Carly Bass For Mailonline   Published:  10:36, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8037323/Bella-Thorne-puts-colourful-display-poses-selfie-bright-green-crop-top.html }
She was seen sporting a nun's habit as she got to work shooting her latest movie project in Los Angeles last week.  But Bella Thorne was back to her edgy best as she took to Instagram to pose for a new bold snap on Sunday evening.  The actress, 22, pouted into the mirror as she slipped into a bright green plunging crop top, teamed with mustard yellow trousers.   The former child star matched her blue streaks to similarly bold eyeshadow as she worked her magic in front of the camera. Bella wore a gold crucifix around her neck for the gallery of images. Alongside the two snaps, she wrote: 'Should I delete this pic?'   By contrast, the former Disney star was spotted on set last Monday while filming for her new role in Habit.  The actress was wearing a nun's habit as she stood in front of a classic car while the cameras rolled. Bella paired the religious attire with some classic Converse sneakers and carried a handbell and a bucket which was decorated with a cross. Bella later took to Instagram to share a selfie in costume, which she captioned: 'Nun -ya-business. New week new movie'.  While there isn't much information on her new role in Habit, Bella is said to have a number of projects in the works.  The star is currently filming the Malin Akerman-fronted action comedy Chick Fight, in addition to the thriller Masquerade. Meanwhile, Bella has four different film projects in the post-production stage: Leave Not One Alive, Southland, Girl, and The Babysitter 2. The actress will also soon return to TV with the upcoming series Paradise City. The show, which is based off the world of the 2017 supernatural thriller American Satan, will also feature the talents of Olivia Culpo, Fairuza Balk, Drea de Matteo and Brittany Furlan. Paradise City, which is set for a 2020 release, also marks one of late actor Cameron Boyce's final roles. 
