business
{ By Kristy Johnson For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  09:29, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8037087/Michael-Clarke-ICC-Womens-T20-World-Cup-match-amid-divorce.html }
Michael Clarke prepared for commentating duties at the ICC Women's T20 World Cup match between Australia and Sri Lanka, at Perth's WACA stadium on Monday. The 38-year-old looked polished on the cricket pitch in a crisp white dress shirt, black trousers, brown suede boots and a pale blue suit jacket.  It comes after Michael announced his $40million divorce with Kyly Clarke, also 38, on February 12 after seven years of marriage. Michael was joined by production crew members and at times concealed his gaze behind tinted sunglasses.   The father-of-one's personal life has made headlines this month, since announcing his split from wife Kyly.  It is understood there was no third party involved in Michael's shock split from the former model and TV presenter. They have been separated for five months, but only revealed their split in a surprise announcement on February 12.    The Clarkes, who were high-school sweethearts, have said the 'amicable' decision to separate was 'the best course' for their four-year-old daughter Kelsey Lee. Michael and Kyly have reportedly already agreed terms on their divorce - as well as arrangements to co-parent their daughter - without going through the courts. Meanwhile, Pip Edwards has denied romance rumours with Michael, after he was seen leaving her home in Sydney's Bondi on Thursday morning.   Michael left the luxury apartment block in his $54,000 BMW just before 9am, with Pip leaving moments later in her $73,000 black Mercedes. Michael had parked his SUV in Pip's underground garage during the visit to her coastal home.  The P.E Nation co-founder told The Sunday Telegraph's Confidential that she has been supporting her friend and business associate 'through a rough time'.  The 40-year-old, who shares a son with ex-partner Dan Single, went on to reveal that she's been supporting Michael in the wake of his high-profile split from wife Kyly.    'Michael and I over the past month have spent more personal time together. I have been supporting Michael through what has been a rough time with the public view on his divorce. 'As I have been through this before, I understand what a stressful situation this can be when you are in the media storm of a break-up and feel you have no privacy.'    Michael's personal assistant Sasha Armstrong also played down the romance rumours when approached by Daily Mail Australia last week. 'Michael has known Pip for over a decade and is currently working with both Pip and Claire [Tregoning] on a special project with P.E Nation,' she said.   
