business
{ By Dailymail.com Reporter   Published:  09:10, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8036313/Real-Housewives-Atlanta-Marc-Daly-refers-wife-Kenya-Moore-Ken-cracks-marriage.html }
Kenya Moore's problems with husband Marc Daly came to the forefront on Sunday's episode of The Real Housewives Of Atlanta. The couple filed for divorce last September, though Kenya, 49, recently suggested they might be trying to work things out. But the issues behind their split were apparent as the two of them hosted a bowling night and party for Marc's charity, Black Man Lab, on the episode entitled Kenya vs. Ken. Marc's nickname for his wife, 'Ken,' seemed to reflect their differences just as much as their feeling about whether NeNe Leakes, 52, should be invited to the event. Despite not wanting her there, Kenya publicly agreed with Marc, and let him take the lead. As a result, NeNe was loving Kenya's new nickname, which she felt reflected a more subservient version of the haircare mogul than she'd known. 'Kenya plays all kinds of games,' NeNe pointed out. 'Curses like a sailor. But 'Ken' can't do none of that s*** if Marc is around. I love it when she's 'Ken.' 'Cause 'Ken' shuts the f*** up.' 'I'm not sure if he has a real idea of how she can be,' Kandi Burruss, 43, said of Marc. 'When she's with him, she becomes an angel. When she's with us, she's hell on wheels.' As the season 12 episode opened, Kenya and Kandi were planning a kickball event, which NeNe declined to attend, texting Kandi that 'Unfortunately, I don't even have 7 minutes to spare.' Her message was a reference to her recent brunch, which Kenya left after just seven minutes. When Kenya called, Kandi let her know, saying, 'NeNe didn't wanna come, because she heard it was your event.' 'Well, then she doesn't have to come,' Kenya rejoined. 'I will actually be happy if she didn't.' Over at her house, NeNe learned that her husband Gregg had been texting with Marc about his charity event, which had her shaking her head. 'I don't know,' she said. 'His partner-for-life, it ain't… it ain't the business.' Marc invited Gregg and NeNe to his event, but Kenya posted the same invite on social media, and tagged everyone in the RHOA cast but NeNe. 'It's like petty on a whole new level,' she said in a confessional. NeNe did not make it to kickball, though Eva Marcille, 35, who was heavily pregnant with her third child and on modified bedrest, did. Kenya's Team Twirl scored 10 points against Kandi's Team Hurricane, which earned just three. The women sat in a circle and wrapped their arms around each other, swaying to and fro. 'This little kickball game was a test of how we could all get along, 'cause Kenya and I have a little something up our sleeve,' said Kandi to the cameras. Kandi and Kenya then announced they would be taking the whole cast to Athens, Greece, which everyone loved, though Kenya privately noted she would never have invited NeNe. 'Let me think,' she mused. 'Would I invite a treacherous, nasty, hypocritical bully on a Greece trip if Kandi was not co-hosting? Yeah, no.' Days after the game, Kenya and Marc took their one-year-old daughter Brooklyn to swimming lessons together. It was a fun activity for the duo, who often found their jobs kept them apart in New York and Atlanta. 'Sometimes, it's difficult when you are living apart in two different cities, and trying to make it work,' Kenya shared in a voiceover. 'Right now, we're trying to figure out ''What is the long-term goal in terms of our living arrangement?'' That decision needs to be made.' At the pool, the two of them discussed their bowling night, with Marc offering to reach out to Gregg, and Kenya saying 'I'm not in a good place with NeNe. I prefer they not come.' In her confessional, she said that she had failed to tag NeNe on this event, too, which led a producer to ask her why she tagged Gregg but not his wife. 'I know how nasty she has been to me for no reason,' Kenya replied. 'And I'm not going to invite NeNe.' Marc pressed forward on inviting Gregg, saying, 'I do want him to be part of the event. It's for a cause that's bigger than any of the petty stuff.' Kenya stated her position again, saying, 'I feel very uncomfortable being in an intimate setting with her when she has not addressed the fact that she has tried to fight me, call me names, she has cursed me out on…' 'She tried to fight you?' Marc said incredulously. 'Yes, she got in my face pointing, and people had to hold her back,' Kenya retorted. 'A lot of people get in people's face,' Marc said. 'That don't mean they wanna fight.' To the cameras, Kenya observed, 'I'm your wife, and if I have a problem with someone, that means you have a problem with someone. Get it?' Marc joked with the baby, 'Next aqua time, Mommy's going in, and she ain't coming out. You and I are going to this event alone. We don't need anybody else.' At the bowling night, Kenya tried to get Marc to be romantic, saying, 'You know, this is like a little date night for us. We have the nanny, and we can sneak in, not let her know that we're back.' 'That, yeah, I love it,' Mike said, looking uncomfortable. Kenya referred to their 'sexy time,' then joked that Marc would normally say, 'Me. You. Together. Makee the sex.' 'You. Too much. Too hard. You makee too much rough sex,' Marc returned. 'You. Be Quiet. Turn around,' Kenya added. When Porsha Williams, 38, and her fiancé, Dennis McKinley, showed up, Dennis offered to give Marc advice on how to 'deal with a Detroit woman,' which both Kenya and Porsha were. 'I needed you two years ago,' Marc responded, referring to the time of his wedding. 'Detroit women are tough, though,' Dennis opined. 'Yeah, they are,' Marc said. 'I'm gonna handle her, though. That's okay.' Kenya later told Porsha that friend of the cast Tanya Sam wasn't coming because her fiancé Paul Judge couldn't make it, and 'it was a couples thing.' 'You're the one that said it's couples,' Marc told Kenya. 'I said everyone could show up.' He reiterated that to anyone who would listen, also adding that he'd invited Gregg to come to the charity event, and that everyone should be able to come. 'I don't understand how Marc expects everyone to put their differences to the side, when his own wife isn't putting her differences to the side,' Kandi said privately. The cast secretly gossiped about the dynamic between Kenya and Marc while the couple bowled, with several women saying that Kenya 'falls back' around her husband. 'Marc does not play, honey,' Kandi agreed. 'He's not with the shenanigans that she be pulling.' Porsha told Kenya she should have invited Tanya, especially after she called her a 'c***' in a previous argument, though Kenya wasn't having it. Marc said he'd wanted to get everyone together ahead of the charity event, and Kandi asked if Gregg was going to be there. 'Gregg is definitely going to be there,' Marc answered, which had Kandi suggesting that Kenya reach out to NeNe and invite her. 'Marc can reach out to her and invite her,' Kenya said, noting that they'd already discussed the 'Leakes couple' earlier that day. 'Ken, let's reign it in,' Marc interrupted, making Porsha ask, 'Who's Ken?' 'Let's put all this 'Me, you, I'—let's put that away,' Marc went on. 'I agree with you, because at the end of the day, it's not about us. We gotta look beyond ourselves.' The women started giving Kenya a hard time, and she said, 'Are we gonna talk about me, or are we gonna talk about the event?' 'It's our event,' Porsha pointed out in a confessional. 'You are married. You don't have an event on your own. This is the wife now; we're not tallking a girlfriend. She's the neck, he's the head. She makes it go likes this, but apparently he's the whole mother***ing body.' 'Wait a second, Kenya,' Marc barked at her, saying, 'We'll get it done.' Just then, NeNe showed up and cordially greeted Kenya, who refused to engage. Marc went to talk to Gregg about the charity event, and Gregg said he couldn't go anywhere his wife couldn't go. 'I'll say it in front of everyone, so we don't have any miscommunication,' Marc said. 'We're gonna shelve all nonsense for [the charity event].' 'I would never divide a couple, so I want you guys both there. Um, Ken agrees.'  'For me, it's nonsense, at the end of the day,' Marc opined. 'Let's put the evil away and do some good stuff.' 'Oh yeah, without question,' NeNe said. 'Maybe same thing?' Marc asked Kenya. 'Oh yes of course,' 'Ken' replied, as NeNe went to hug her. 'Is there an issue though?' NeNe asked her, to which Kenya replied, 'We'll talk another time.' Elsewhere on the show, Cynthia Bailey, 52, confronted her fiancé Mike Hill about the book he'd written, Open Mike, which detailed the ways he'd cheated on women in other relationships. The Fox Sports broadcaster, 49, sought to reassure her, saying, 'I'm not glorifying anything that I've done in the past. I've had infidelities. I've had marriages that failed. All I know is that I have somebody in my life that gives me everything that I want, and everything that I desire.' 'Why do you think you were not faithful?' Cynthia asked him. 'And do you really think you are ready to start a faithful journey with me?' 'If I mess this up, that is entirely on me,' Mike admitted, as Cynthia suggested they seek therapy and 'work out our stuff' before they get married. 'I've seen what therapy has done for Dennis and Porsha,' she later explained. 'That makes me optimistic that this therapy session will give me some clarity in terms of how we communicate with each other. How we argue with each other. How to make it work.' The Real Housewives Of Atlanta will return next week on Bravo.  
