business
{ By Paul Chavez For Dailymail.com   Published:  08:27, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8036357/Shahs-Sunset-Golnesa-GG-Gharachedaghi-prepares-stop-smoking-pot-pregnancy-gets-closer.html }
Golnesa 'GG' Gharachedaghi prepared to stop smoking pot as her pregnancy journey was about to begin in earnest on Sunday's episode of Shahs Of Sunset. The 38-year-old reality star admitted during the season eight episode to her friend Yasmin that she had been experiencing a 'bumpy ride' with her IVF treatments. GG shared that she did not undergo egg retrieval until she was age 37 and she needed to thicken her uterine lining 'to put the embryo inside'. She had been using patches, pills and suppositories to no effect. GG and Yasmin met up at a herbal juice bar where she hoped to improve her condition. Yasmin noted that GG must really want to be pregnant since she was making such a concerted effort. 'I want it so bad, babe,' GG told her friend. GG in a confessional said she was a 'little worried' about getting pregnant after being 'irresponsible' growing up and having multiple pregnancies. 'I'm lucky to live in California and figure a way out of that,' said GG, who noted that it was easy to be irresponsible and get pregnant. 'Now I'm trying and trying and trying and my body's not responding,' she said. She had two herbal drinks at the shop and vowed to be stop smoking weed 'I want to be sure this pregnancy will happen and it will be healthy. The day the embryo is placed inside of me, that's the day I'm not having anymore pot,' GG said. GG later was shown driving to her doctor's office to see if her uterine lining had thickened enough for her to carry her own child. She appeared upset afterward as she drove away and cursed twice. 'Oh, god. Last few days to smoke pot,' GG sighed. GG called her mother Fati and told her they would be doing the baby transfer soon. 'I'm finally going to be pregnant,' GG said. The episode titled I Want You To Be My Muddy Buddy also showed Reza Farahan, 46, gathering his friends for a mud run event. GG came over to help make T-shirts for the event and Reza commented on her pot smoking. 'GG smokes more weed than Snoop Dogg,' Reza declared. Destiney Rose was invited to the mud run by Reza who was still angry with her but willing to co-exist. She arrived at Reza's house before the mud run and admitted that she messed up. Reza accepted her apology as authentic and they hugged it out. The mud run brought the group together as GG and Destiney decided to cheat and skipped part of the course. Reza noted that they were helping each other with obstacles on the course, but not so much in real life. Mike Shouhed skipped the run due to sciatica pain, but he was shown working with his family on a redevelopment project. His father Shawn warned Mike that he had to 'be on top of everything' and that if he failed, there would be no second chance. 'I'm trying to keep my composure,' said Mike who looked a bit overwhelmed. The episode openened with Reza and GG jogging in preparation for the mud run. GG mentioned her doctor advising her to start doing light cardio, but didn't tell Reza about trying to have a baby. 'It's a little bit of a secret for now,' GG said. Shahs Of Sunset will return next week on Bravo.x   
