{ By Claire Toureille For Mailonline   Published:  07:41, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8034623/Wealthy-son-refuses-help-parents-financially-didnt-invest-100-company.html }
A millionaire has revealed he refuses to help his struggling parents pay off their mortgage so they can retire because they wouldn't invest in his fledgling company five years ago.  The unnamed son, believed to be from the UK, explained on Reddit that he started a business in 2015, and his parents refused to invest £100 because they thought it would fail.  However in the last couple of years it's boomed - but the son, who earns 'borderline seven figures a year', remains bitter about his parents' lack of support. He insisted he won't help them pay off their £200,000 mortgage because they only have themselves and their spending habits to blame for not having enough savings to retire on.  Redditors were split over the issue, with some calling the son 'ungrateful' for refusing to help his parents with the mortgage, and others agreeing they are not entitled to his money.   The son explained he quit his office job, which paid £26,000 a year, in order to start his business in 2015 - when his parents and siblings earned twice or triple what he made.   'When I opened my business, I asked if they wanted to invest as little as £100 in it, no one did... My entire family thought that my business was going to fail, just like I failed my sixth form,' he wrote.   However, the company turned out to be a success and the business boomed in 2018 and 2019.   The son wrote: 'My parents still have around £200,000 in mortgage payments left and are about to retire. Yesterday at a family reunion, my aunt asked why I don't help them out financially considering I make more in a year than they make in a decade.' He said he told his aunt he did not want to help because his parents had shown no belief in his venture. 'I also told her that my parents made more than enough to put aside some money each month towards retirement, but due to their unorganised spending habits they were living pay cheque to pay cheque every month. They were making TRIPLE what I was making when I was an office boy [sic],' he explained.  'My aunt called me an a***** for not helping them out and spending my wealth on "lavish" things. I told her I earned my s*** through hard work, sleepless nights and dedication.'  On Reddit the story was met by a divided reception, with some siding with the son, and others calling him ungrateful.  'Just because they are your parents, doesn't mean you have to forget their behaviour and not supporting you. Especially since they can put some money aside and they don't because they cannot organise where they spend their money,' one wrote.  'Isn't it interesting how people suddenly feel entitled to your money simply because you have it?' pondered another.  'I don't owe my parents for raising me. I didn't have a choice to be born. It's literally their job to feed and clothe me. You don't get to be a parent if you don't do that,' one remarked.  But some felt the man still owed his parents some form of help after being looked after by them during his upbringing.  'Yeah. My parents weren't the greatest but not the worst either. They are also horrible with money. I still help them out and don't make anything above a normal salary. I can't imagine making seven figures in a year, having decent parents, and not helping them out. I would consider that a selfish person. Now if the parents were horrible that's a whole other story,' one Reddit user argued. 'Yeah I feel like OP is ungrateful, and quite frankly chintzy. He hasn't provided info about the dynamics of his family, and has only provided income info - which sounds like all he cares about is money,' said another.  And one wrote: 'I don't know what your relationship with your parents is like, but I'd give my parents anything and everything, simply because I owe both more than I could ever give.'  
