{ By Lara Keay For Mailonline   Published:  07:33, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8036921/Steve-Chandler-gets-free-Virgin-Atlantic-Voyages-cruise-Richard-Branson-lift-M40.html }
A businessman could not believe his luck when Richard Branson offered him a free holiday - for giving him a lift when the motorway was closed 10 years ago. Steve Chandler spotted Sir Richard, 69, wandering by the side of the road after a crash closed the M40 around a decade ago.  The entrepreneur was desperately trying to get to an important meeting in London and had abandoned his driver in search of a quicker option. Last month Mr Chandler tweeted the Virgin founder to ask him to confirm his story because friends and family had never believed him. But to his shock, he got a reply  and a free holiday to repay his kindness.  Mr Chandler had tweeted: 'I've always regaled friends and family with a story about the time I picked u up when you were trying to get to London after being stuck in on the M40, this was about 10 years ago. No-one believes me, please tell it was really you #fingerscrossed.'  And Branson replied: 'Hi Steve. Yes it was me. Appreciate the lift! Was really late for a critical meeting. Would like to return the favour - want a lift with @VirginAtlantic to Miami, then a cruise with @VirginVoyages to say thank you?'  Mr Chandler, who works as a logistics driver for TV and film, was elated.  He replied: 'A massive thank u to @VirginAtlantic and @VirginVoyages for helping me to arrange my trip so very kindly offered by @richardbranson. 'I can't see how I'm ever going to repay this but to say I will support the Virgin Group whenever possible. Been a @virginmedia customer from day 1.'  He later told The Sun: The M40 was shut because of a crash and traffic was chaos, but I'm local so was able to navigate the back roads through little villages.' Sir Richard only wanted a lift as far as the service station at Beaconsfield, where he got out and attempted to hitch hike the rest of the way. He added: 'He was so grateful we stopped for him, and was really nice and chatty with my son. 'I've been telling this story since it happened in 2010 and a lot of people didn't believe me so I thought I'd tweet him and ask him to confirm it.' And sure enough, two weeks later, he replied.     Sir Richard, who started out in the music industry, but has since branched out to air travel, mobile broadband and much more, unveiled his first ever cruise ship last week. The luxury 17-deck ship - Scarlet Lady - was unveiled in Dover on Friday and is the first of four Virgin Voyages ships that will come into service each year for the next four years.  The adult-only ship has swapped traditional buffets for a wide selection of swanky eateries and includes 'rockstar suites' and an outdoor running track.  Mr Chandler will be flown on a Virgin Atlantic plane from London to Miami where he will embark the Scarlet Lady and cruise around the Caribbean in May.  Its maiden voyage is due to take place in April, with routes on offer including a five-day sailing to Costa Maya in Mexico, Puerto Plata in the Dominican Republic, and a quick getaway to Key West and the Bahamas.  Speaking at the launch last week, Sir Richard said: 'I have dreamed of starting my own cruise line since I was in my 20s and I'm thrilled that moment has arrived.  'The Scarlet Lady is truly special and we've worked with some of the world's most sought-after designers, artists and architects to craft an extraordinary experience.  'The benefit of our five decades in business in so many industries is that we can offer a voyage like no other.'  
