business
{ By Ali Daher For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:49, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8036681/Kyly-Clarke-puts-brave-face-baggy-clothes-Michaels-rumoured-new-romance-revealed.html }
She confirmed her upcoming divorce from her husband of seven years, Michael  Clarke, earlier this month.  And on Monday, Kyly Clarke put on a brave face as she stepped out to run errands in Sydney.  The 38-year-old appeared to be in good spirits during the outing, despite the recent headlines about her love life.   The newly single former model wore a pair of baggy jeans and a loose fitting navy top as she clutched onto her iPhone and keys and carried a Louis Vuitton handbag on her shoulder.  Her caramel hair sat in waves around her face and she wore minimal makeup. She completed her look with white strappy sneakers and a Gucci belt.  The sighting comes after former Australian cricket captain Michael, 38, was seen leaving fashion designer Pip Edwards' home last week, following rumours of a romance between the two.  However the P.E Nation co-founder, 39, has insisted Michael is just a 'friend and business associate'. She went on to say that she has been supporting Michael 'through a rough time'. Pip told The Sunday Telegraph that she has been friends with Michael for 12 years, and that they simply have a business association.  'Michael and I over the past month have spent more personal time together. I have been supporting Michael through what has been a rough time with the public view on his divorce,' she said.  'As I have been through this before, I understand what a stressful situation this can be when you are in the media storm of a break-up and feel you have no privacy.'   Michael and Kyly announced they were divorcing on February 12, after seven years of marriage. They have been separated for five months, but only revealed their split in a surprise announcement. The Clarkes, who were high-school sweethearts, said the 'amicable' decision to separate was 'the best course' for their four-year-old daughter Kelsey Lee.  Michael and Kyly have reportedly already agreed terms on their divorce - as well as arrangements to co-parent their daughter - without going through the courts.  It is understood there was no third party involved in relation to their split.  
