{ By Caleb Taylor For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:08, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8036565/Olivia-Newton-Johns-daughter-Chloe-Lattanzi-34-talks-pressures-growing-Hollywood.html }
 Olivia Newton-John's daughter Chloe Lattanzi has spoken candidly about the pressures of growing up in Hollywood. The 34-year-old singer, who is currently competing on Dancing With The Stars in Australia, discussed her battle with anorexia and depression during a lengthy interview with Studio Ten on Monday. Chloe struggled with depression for 15 years, and also had issues with anorexia, body dysmorphia, drug addiction and alcohol dependency.   'I think growing up in LA, growing up in the limelight, and growing up around people who have had plastic surgery, and who are all thin. It happens,' she said.  'So many kids that I know of have struggled with body dysmorphia or eating disorders,' she added.  'I mean, it's a common thing in Hollywood.'  Chloe reiterated that these problems affect 'nine out of ten girls' in the entertainment industry.  She went on to say she struggled with feeling like she wasn't 'quite enough' and it became a 'way of being.'  'I was just a child going through a physiological illness and I kind of self-sabotaged because internally I was not well,' she explained.  'I didn't know up from down. [I thought] How am I going to be a celebrity and be able to handle all the pressures.'  Chloe has described being on the Australia version of Dancing With The Stars this year as starting a 'new chapter' in her life.  Speaking to Stellar magazine, she said people often forget about her career as a entertainer due to her past personal problems.    'People forget that I'm a legitimate singer and musician because my depression andf anxiety have overshadowed that part of me,' Chloe told the publication during a rehearsal with her dance partner, Gustavo Viglio. 'I want people to see me for who I am, not an illness I overcame.' While she's keen to regain her identity, Chloe said she hoped to be a source of support for those going through a 'dark place' or struggling with mental health issues. 'I hit rock bottom, so I want to be a beacon for anyone watching the show who is suffering. I want them to see that you can recover,' she said.   Chloe struggled with depression for 15 years, and also had issues with anorexia, body dysmorphia, drug addiction and alcohol dependency. In an interview with The Mail on Sunday in 2013, Chloe revealed she had been abusing cocaine, alcohol and antidepressants prior to a stint in rehab. 'Fame totally messes you up. I don't blame my mother for my problems, but I would never want to be famous or raise a child of my own around the cult of celebrity. It ruins lives,' she said at the time.   'If there's one thing I've learned, it is that you can't be fragile in this business, or else you end up like Lindsay Lohan. 'That's not meant as an insult: I know she - and a lot of celebrities and celebrities' kids - are struggling with demons and addictions, just like me, and not all of them are brave enough to address them.'  
