business
{ By Emily Goodin, Senior U.s. Political Reporter In New Delhi For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:08, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8042287/We-dont-Americans-dying-coronavirus-says-Donald-Trump.html }
President Donald Trump tried to calm public fears and panicked markets amid concerns of a massive coronavirus outbreak when he said the situation 'is very well under control' in United States and folks who had it were recovering.  'We've had very few people with it. The people that have it,' he said a press conference in Delhi, 'The people are getting better - they're all getting better.' 'There's a very good chance you're not going to die,' he said of those infected. There are 53 cases of the virus in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control.  The president also responded to criticism from Democrats that his administration wasn't asking for enough to fight the disease when it requested $2.5 billion. Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer called  'too little too late.' 'I see that Chuck Schumer criticized that he thought it should be more. And if I gave more, he would say it should be less,' Trump said at this press conference. 'These characters, they are just not good for our country. I gave more he would say it should be less. That's what they do. In the meantime, that's all they can do. They are not getting anything done.' He later took to Twitter to double down on his Schumer criticism. 'Cryin' Chuck Schumer is complaining, for publicity purposes only, that I should be asking for more money than $2.5 Billion to prepare for Coronavirus. If I asked for more he would say it is too much. He didn't like my early travel closings. I was right. He is incompetent!,' the president wrote.   President Trump is wrapping up a two-day trip to India. He spent 45 minutes taking questions from reporters on a variety of topics.   Earlier the president assured business leaders the U.S. was in 'very good shape' in regards to the coronavirus. 'We think we're in very good shape in the United States,' Trump said at a business roundtable meeting at the U.S. Embassy in Delhi. Trump is wrapping up a two-day state visit to India. Trump, speaking to American and Indian business leaders, joked that their investments in the US.. have made them a lot of money 'except for yesterday,' noting the market drop. The Dow plunged 1,000 points on Monday, posting its worse day in two years, amid fears of a spike in cases of the coronavirus.  'I think it's going to be under control,' the president said of the outbreak and lamented the market drop as being out of his or anyone else's control.    The Trump administration is asking Congress for $2.5 billion to fight the fast-spreading coronavirus, including more than $1 billion for vaccines, the White House said on Monday. The White House budget office said the funds are for vaccines, treatment and protective equipment.  But the request was immediately slammed by Democrats as insufficient with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi calling it 'completely inadequate' to the scale of the emergency.      
