{ By Monique Friedlander For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  03:49, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8036495/Goops-chief-content-officer-Elise-Leohnen-defends-amazing-boss-Gwyneth-Paltrow.html }
Gwyneth Paltrow's new Netflix docu-series, The Goop Lab, features everything from an exorcism to orgasm workshops. And while the show has been panned due to its wacky take on wellness, Goop's chief content officer Elise Loehnen says her boss is simply misunderstood. Speaking to the Today show's Brooke Boney on Monday, Elise described Gwyneth as an 'amazing' person to work for.  'She's unlike most bosses in that she didn't grow up in the traditional corporate culture. She does things in her own way, as you can imagine,' Elise said.  She went on to describe Goop as a 'deeply polarising brand', and blamed the media for publishing sensational stories about its business practices.   When asked to describe Netflix's The Goop Lab, Elise said: 'Some of the episodes are deeply grounded in science and research, and others are far more exploratory.' 'We're essentially saying, "This is happening and it's real but we have no idea what's happening, and that's okay too,"' she added.  The Goop Lab focuses on the boundary-pushing, and sometimes dangerous, wellness treatments featured on Gwyneth's famous lifestyle website.  In a statement about the show, the Hollywood actress said: 'The Goop Lab explores the universal questions we're inherently curious about. 'We took the open-minded approach that we've cultivated at Goop and applied a different, visual lens with Netflix. In the process, we found new ways to answer this: How do we make the most of our lives?'  Gwyneth has come under fire over the years for touting eccentric and expensive health fads on Goop, including vaginal steams, a 'psychic vampire repellent' and detoxes. In September 2018, Goop paid $145,000 to settle a lawsuit accusing it of making unsubstantiated claims about the health benefits of vaginal eggs and a flower essence that 'could help prevent depression'. Goop has been barred from making any claims regarding the health benefits of its products 'without possessing competent and reliable scientific evidence', and from manufacturing or selling any falsely advertised medical devices. 
