{ By Brian Marks For Dailymail.com   Published:  03:47, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8036505/Lisa-Rinna-husband-Harry-Hamlin-attend-screening-Hollywood-Rumer-Willis.html }
They've been Hollywood fixtures for decades. Lisa Rinna, 56, looked cool and collected on Sunday as she attended a screening of the highly anticipated Netflix miniseries Hollywood with her husband Harry Hamlin, 68. The loved-up couple cut casual figures at the screening in LA at the San Vicente Bungalows with Rumer Willis, 31. Lisa was ready for business in a sleek gray blazer, which she wore over a shallow V-neck top. The Real Housewives Of Beverly Hills star paired her top with simple black slacks and lustrous black boots.  Harry affected a more casual look with a black wool sweater, black jeans and rugged hiking boots. Rumer was there representing Hollywood royalty, and she shared a lovely smile while draped in an eye-catching burgundy overcoat with red and blue floral stitching and a lustrous green dress underneath. Mira Sorvino, one of the stars of Hollywood, looked effortlessly elegant in a low-cut black dress that highlighted her cleavage. She covered up with a stylish black overcoat with peaked lapels and rows of rhinestones running down her sleeves, while her blonde tresses rested gently over her shoulders in loose curls. Hollywood was only recently announced, and it's not set to premiere on Netflix until May 1. According to Netflix, the Ryan Murphy and Ian Brennan–created miniseries will follow 'a group of aspiring actors and filmmakers in post-World War II Hollywood as they try to make it in Tinseltown.' The characters will explore the way people of different races, genders and sexual orientations made their way in the WWII-era movie industry, while also focusing on the kinds of discrimination they faced. Adding a splash of color to the event was one of Hollywood's stars, Laura Harrier. The 29-year-old BlacKkKlansman actress looked resplendent in a patterned blazer with gorgeous blue and white designs are thick orange floral patterns. She matched the look with an eye-catching set of white slacks with hypnotizing red and blue patterns, as well as black open-toe heels that elevated her 5ft9in stature. TV host and transgender rights activist Janet Mock stunned in a low-cut figure-hugging burgundy dress. The look featured a tightly pleated skirt, and she had her dark locks pulled back in a loose ponytail.  Orange Is The New Black's Laverne Cox looked fierce in a low-cut brown top with sharp black stripes over her midriff and a pair of black vinyl pants.  Comedian, writer and director Judd Apatow looked every inch the proud papa as he arrived at the event with his daughter Maude Apatow, one of the stars of the show. He had on a plaid charcoal blazer with a lustrous gray–blue shirt and dark jeans with black sneakers. Maude stunned in a pale pink blazer atop a sheer pink dress with a red and white short skirt with leaf patterns. She matched her red heels to her lipstick and carried along a golden clutch.  Ryan Murphy regular Dylan McDermott, who's also featured in the show, rocked some bad boy style with a black leather biker jacket over a black shirt. He posed with actor David Corenswet, looking dapper in a black turtleneck and a gray suit. Michelle Krusiec had on a lacy black top that covered one shoulder and reached down to the ground, as well as black pants and studded black heels. EJ Johnson stood out in a satin cream blazer with a tied-off blouse and a short black skirt with pointy black boots. Musician Margie Plus put on a colorful display in a purple suit with peaked lapels, matching thin purple sunglasses, a bright green fedora and highlighter yellow hair. The attending castmembers assembled for a group photo on the red carpet before the screening. Jeremy Pope looked cool in a burnt sienna suit paired with a white tank top. Jake PIcking matched Dylan with his black leather jacket. Alexis Martin Woodall flashed an infectious smile while draped in a maroon dress. Series co-creator Ian Brennan rocked a 1970s-inspired brown patterned shirt with white jeans. 
