{ By Brian Marks For Dailymail.com   Published:  02:41, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8036381/Kylie-Jenner-Travis-Scott-fun-family-day-trampoline-warehouse-Stormi.html }
They spent much of their daughter's massive second birthday party hanging out with each other. Kylie Jenner and Travis Scott were getting along well as they ventured out for some family fun with their daughter Stormi on Sunday, according to TMZ. The 22-year-old Keeping Up With The Kardashians star and the 27-year-old rapper treated their daughter to a high-flying day at the Sky High Sports trampoline warehouse in Los Angeles' Woodland Hills neighborhood   The two parents seemed to be pretty close to each other while bouncing about. Though they've primarily been hanging out when together with their younger daughter, Kylie and Travis appear to be enjoying each other's company.  TMZ previously reported that the ex couple seemed 'inseparable' at the second StormiWorld party, though they didn't display any PDA. Though Kylie and Travis often have large entourages with them, they kept things relatively low key while bouncing on trampolines. Rather than renting the place out, they simple arrived like any other paying couple. However, they did take advantage of the business' VIP area. Afterward, the threesome dropped by a nearby mall for some tasty frozen treats at the popular ice cream store Afters. Recently, Kylie has been filing trademarks left and right to secure her businesses, but she's started moving closer to home. The 'self-made' billionaire got some pushback on her decision to trademark her daughter Stormi's name when the New Orleans–based clothing company Stormi Couture filed an opposition to her claim, according to Page Six. The brand claimed Kylie's trademark would confuse its customers, and it claimed that she had 'no bona fide intent to use mark in commerce for identified goods or services,' meaning the brand doubted she actually intended to use the trademark. Last month, the reality star trademarked 'Kylie Con,' 'Kylie Kon' and 'Kylie Museum,' indicating that she might have plans to built a large convention around her billion-dollar Kylie Cosmetics empire. The whole family appeared to be in high spirits for their trip to the trampoline factory, a far cry from their mood only days earlier in the wake of the murder of Travis' friend Pop Smoke. The 20-year-old rapper was killed when a group of armed men broke into his Hollywood Hills home in the early morning hours of February 19 and shot and killed him. Travis paid tribute to the rising star by sharing snippets of an unreleased collaboration between the two, while Kylie sounded more downbeat in a Twitter post. 'Rest in peace pop smoke,' she wrote, adding a minute later, 'i've had enough of 2020.' The two celebrities first began spending time together back in April 2017, when they were spotted at Coachella and later attended a basketball game together. They kept their burgeoning romance relatively low key, though an ebullient Twitter post from Travis in June was later assumed to mark when he first learned that Kylie was pregnant with their daughter. 'Legit happiest day of my life,' he wrote on June 12, 2017, minus any other context. The pregnancy was first reported in September of that year, though the couple stayed mum right up until Stormi was born on February 1, 2018. The cosmetics mogul addressed her pregnancy's secrecy days later on Instagram.  'I’m sorry for keeping you in the dark through all the assumptions. I understand you’re used to me bringing you along on all my journeys. My pregnancy was one I chose not to do in front of the world. I knew for myself I needed to prepare for this role of a lifetime in the most positive, stress-free, and healthy way I knew how,' she wrote.  'There was no gotcha moment, no big paid reveal I had planned. I knew my baby would feel every stress and every emotion so I chose to do it this way for my little life and our happiness.' The couple seemed to be closer than ever, but Travis was dogged by rumors of infidelities in early 2019, and on October 1, TMZ reported that the couple had broken up sometime after August 27. Since then, they've managed to be committed co-parents to their adorable daughter. Earlier this month, Travis had a jealous reaction to reports that Kylie might be rekindling a romance with rapper Drake. 'Travis was obviously never thrilled that Kylie hung out with other guys. He is very protective of Kylie,' a source to People. 
