{ By Rachel Mcgrath For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:51, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8036389/Tori-Spelling-reveals-son-Liam-12-daughter-Stella-11-bullying.html }
She's a mother of five children ranging in age from 12 to two. And on Saturday, Tori Spelling spoke out via Instagram on the bullying her two eldest kids have been subjected to.  Sharing a throwback photo of son Liam, now 12, and daughter Stella, now 11, as toddlers, the daughter of the late TV mogul Aaron Spelling explained: 'My two 1st born... they have been thru so much bullying I can no longer not share and express ourselves.' Starting with Stella, whom she described at age one as an 'innocent little being that only knew unconditional love', Tori revealed: 'Between her last year at her elementary school or the 1st year at her middle school this human has endured enough bullying for a lifetime.' The Beverly Hills 90210 star, 46, claimed that Stella had been bullied by a boy at her school and that school officials accused her of 'playing the victim'. 'Never any consequences for his actions towards my daughter and other kids. This child’s parents are on the board of the school. They give a lot of money to this school. Financially, we aren’t able too. So, they won,' she wrote. She said they moved her to another school but she was bullied again, only this time the boy in question was expelled, she wrote 'But the damage had been done,' Tori shared. 'She now associates her education with boys that have been so horrific to her. She wanted to empower others girls and be a business leader. She now has panic attacks and doesn’t want to return to school.' As for Liam, Tori alleged that the principal of his school told her and her husband Dean McDermott that their eldest 'was “unmotivated“ & lazy. Poor guy thought from way he was treated by her that he was “stupid”. Beyond not the case. He is a hilarious, smart, outgoing, and a creative kind guy!' Liam started at the same middle school as his sister Stella but also ended up being bullied there.  Tori wrote in her Instagram caption: 'He was bullied to the point that he developed severe emotional based headaches and stomach aches. This school ( who did help with Stella’s situation) did not help with Liams. He continued to be bullied so bad we had to leave.' She finished her post: 'Was hesitant to post this bc as celebs we are sometimes judged for having problems others have.' In addition to Liam and Stella, Tori and Dean, who married in 2006, are also parents to Hattie, eight, Finn, seven, and Beau, two.   Dean also has a son Jack, 21, from his first marriage. Following the death of her father, Tori, and her brother Randy, received just $800,000 each from his estate reported to be worth $500 million, with the bulk of it going to their mother Candy Spelling. In order to make ends meet, Tori has embarked on a string of reality shows and TV appearances and published several books including a 2013 memoir Spelling It Like It Is. Most recently she appeared as the Unicorn on Fox's reality show The Masked Singer and starred in Fox's BH90210 revival that aired last year and was canceled after one season.      
