business
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  01:44, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8036417/Pawnbroker-buying-pokie-users-valuables.html }
An Adelaide jeweller has been accused of preying on the vulnerable by offering to buy valuables, including gold teeth, at gambling venues where punters play the pokies. Hallmark Jewellers released an advertisement for its events, including one at a hotel and pokie venue, where it sought to buy "on the spot" gold jewellery, watches, gold nuggets, gold coins and even gold teeth. South Australian Opposition Leader Peter Malinauskas described the practice as "reprehensible" and "predatory behaviour" seeking to take advantage of those already in a vulnerable situation, which must be outlawed. But Hallmark director Arthur Perelman has hit back at the claims, saying items are only purchased by cheque and never cash. "The Labor Party didn't do their homework ... we are a legitimate business," Mr Perelman said. "We do not loan, we do not lend, we do not pawn, we do not trade, we buy and we do not pay cash." Hallmark held one event in January at the Village Tavern at suburban Golden Grove, which was investigated by liquor and gambling authorities. Attorney-General Vickie Chapman said the investigation into the tavern event found it was held in a private room and not near the gaming area. "The Village Tavern does not appear to be in breach of its obligations under the codes of practice," Ms Chapman said in response to opposition concerns. The tavern declined to comment. Mr Perelman was adamant his company had a clean slate and operated under a duty of care to staff and customers by not carrying large amounts of cash into venues. "We are not guilty of anything. We have been doing this for 30 years and nobody said a word. It's disappointing the Labor Party got it so wrong," he said. He said his company did not single out poker machine venues and conducted similar events wherever they could find space, including town halls and other community centres. However, Mr Perelman conceded a line in Hallmark's advertising, which offered "cash for gold jewellery", was misleading. Hallmark is intending to run similar events this week but details were taken down from its Facebook page following negative comments. Mr Malinauskas said the opposition had drafted legislation to ban the sale of second-hand goods at licensed gaming venues. It will introduce the private member's bill, which includes fines of up to $35,000 for venues, to parliament next week. 
