business
{ By Ciara Farmer For Mailonline   Published:  13:56, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8042447/Kim-Kardashian-39-Cher-73-Naomi-Campbell-49-collaborate-incredible-60s-inspired-shoot.html }
They are icons of their respective eras. So it was quite the epic collaboration when Kim Kardashian, 39, Cher, 73, and Naomi Campbell, 49, came together for Carine Roitfeld's CR Fashion Book's new POWER issue produced by CR Studio and modelled by the stunners. Posing in a series of smouldering black and white snaps, the trio played out a retro 60s-inspired story, shot by Mert & Marcus, in which they stormed the streets of LA and brought awareness to the causes close to their hearts. Kim looked breathtaking in the snaps, in which her staggering beehive sat high on her head and fell loose over her shoulders while she wore a tight black look.  She was seen straddling a motorbike alongside Cher, who she has often cited as a hero due to their shared Armenian heritage.  Kim is currently plugging her upcoming documentary Kim Kardashian West: The Justice Project, which documents her criminal justice journey.  On how being a mom inspired her prison reform work, she said: 'My evolution on this is probably some combination of growing up, getting married, having kids, and my life being so different than what it was when I was starting out... 'Now, I feel like I have a duty to myself and to my children more than the public and I want to be a good role model for my kids. I'm raising four black kids in this society and our system is so discriminatory against black and brown people...  'I want to do as much as I can to make their lives easier…I never knew much about the system until I started to dig in, and once I learned and saw how many things were wrong, I really couldn't stop.' On finding balance in her manic life, she said: 'I think that if you really stay focused you can do it all, and I don't ever plan on slowing down. I don't want to! I love running my business and doing everything I'm doing, but I love this the most.'  Meanwhile, in the accompanying interview with the shoot, Cher said of her ongoing fame: 'But somehow at this age, I'm still really famous... 'I never expected it, really. Now when I go on stage, I see such different groupings: really old people beside really young children. That's something really special. I know that I still make people happy, and that's my gift.' Naomi meanwhile was chatting about her 'ride or die' attitude, as she said: ''I'm not the type of person to disappear when someone's down.. 'That's when I'm there the most. Anyone who knows me knows that. Back then Joe [McDevitt] would do my makeup for all my shoots. One day I heard he needed creams for his sick body and help paying his hospital care... 'I wasn't making any money at the time. I had just gotten my own apartment with Christy [Turlington]. I knew that if I gave my rent check to Joe that God would take care of me and I'd find that money again.' Discussing her efforts supporting AIDs research and diversity, she said: 'Ray [Petri] was one of the first people I knew with AIDS. What struck me the most about his sickness, especially the end of it, was how poorly others treated him... 'Since then, I've been a supporter of AIDS research and finding a cure. It's something I'm still fight for today. It's been nearly two and a half decades. I do believe that there is a cure.' 
