{ By Florence Scordoulis For The Daily Mail   Published:  23:21, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8035985/This-70-looks-like-Fashion-designer-says-eyeshadow-primer-keeps-looking-best.html }
Sally Allen lives in Devon with her husband, Norman. She has run her own e-commerce business, sallyallenfashion.co.uk, since 2002.  EYESHADOW PRIMER Recently, my eyelids have got more crinkly and I’ve found eyeshadow looks too streaky. So now I always apply Urban Decay Eyeshadow Primer Potion (£19.50, urbandecay.co.uk) first. It helps my Chanel Ombre Premiere Cream Eyeshadow (£26, johnlewis.com) stay in place. I don’t wear much other make-up — I find that it looks great in photos but not so good up close. ‘SUN’ MANTRA In my work as a fashion designer, my aim is to create clothes that make women over 40 look good and feel confident. I think women shouldn’t dress to suit their age, but rather their body shape. For example, if you still have great legs, don’t be afraid to show them off. However, there is one rule I do stick to: I call it ‘Sun’ — which stands for stomach, upper arms and neck. The key is to disguise these areas as they’re the ones that go first. COMMUNITY DANCE CLASS Once a week, I go to a dance class at my local church. It keeps me fit and I have to learn four new sequences each session, which is good for my brain, too. A friend recommended it and we go in a group. I think friends become more important as you get older, so I throw regular parties, including a 70th bash last year. WINTER SPRAY TAN In winter, I treat myself to a spray tan for special occasions — especially if I’m wearing something strappy or a skirt. I can’t stand white, pasty legs. I go to a salon in Torquay that uses Bondi Sands products, which smell of coconut. It costs only £24 and lasts for more than a week. KEEP WORKING I’m the only one of my friends who still works, but I remember my mum saying I’d always feel 20 on the inside — and it’s true. I still find my job so exciting, especially those ‘punch the sky’ moments, when you create something new. So I won’t be retiring any time soon.  
