business
{ By Harry Wise For This Is Money    Published:  16:25, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8042081/Global-engineering-firm-Meggitt-sees-revenues-fly-higher-despite-grounding-Boeing-737-Max-planes.html }
Higher numbers of jet aircraft orders helped engineering firm Meggitt to record higher revenues and profits in 2019.  The Bournemouth-based aerospace and defence company saw the value of orders rise by 10 per cent to £2.47billion while statutory pre-tax profits jumped by a third to £286.7million with regional and business jets boosting the company.  Sales were ahead in all three of its major markets - with 8 per cent growth in civil aerospace, 11 per cent in defence and 10 per cent in energy.  But the firm warned that the Boeing 737 Max scandal and the coronavirus outbreak are expected to impact on its sales in the coming year. It also expects organic revenue growth to be up to 4 per cent this year, against 8 per cent in 2019. The announcement caused the air parts maker's share price to fall the highest of any firm on the FTSE 100 Index, dropping 4.85 per cent by mid-afternoon to 565.50p. Meggitt said the Covid-19 outbreak will likely weaken global air traffic growth in the coming year while the grounding of Boeing's 737 Max and its uncertain future are expected to dilute expansion in original equipment (OE) orders. 'Sector-specific factors including the production halt of the 737 Max and supply chain disruption, as well as the wider macroeconomic impact of Covid-19, are expected to hold back margin progression in the short term.' The company is the latest to flag up coronavirus concerns as firms worry that the outbreak will lead to a sharp reduction in global economic growth and a knock-on effect on demand.  The overall environment for the global aerospace industry continues to be supportive, with new aircraft deliveries and air traffic both expected to continue to grow and robust defence spending over the medium term.'  Chief executive Tony Wood hailed a better-than-expected set of results and said Meggitt is now a 'more focused, higher-quality and more resilient business'. 'We delivered good progress on our strategic initiatives, helping offset the investment made at our fast-growing advanced engine composites sites and headwinds caused by adverse mix, supply and trading environment conditions and the grounding of the Boeing 737 Max,' he said. Meggitt also separately announced that chairman Sir Nigel Rudd will step down by 2021, but remain in post until a successor is appointed.  Boeing's troubles over its 737 Max aircraft began after 189 people died in a Lion Air 737 Max crash in Indonesia. The disaster was blamed on Indonesian investigators on the plane's faulty MCAS system. Five months later, an Ethiopian Airlines 737 Max flight crashed, killing everyone on board, just like in the Lion Air disaster. The plane was grounded a few days later by Boeing, and has remained on the ground ever since. Issues with the 737 Max led to Boeing registering its first annual loss in two decades in 2019, of $636million. It estimates the fallout will end up costing them $18billion (£13billion). Meggitt also advised that the coronavirus epidemic could damage its number of aircraft deliveries in the first quarter of the year.  Aircraft manufacturers and airlines are expected to be one of the biggest financial casualties of the coronavirus outbreak. Yesterday, the biggest three falling stocks on the FTSE 100 were EasyJet, TUI and British Airways parent group IAG. Qantas and Air-France-KLM have said the virus could cost them £99million and £168million respectively.  
