{ By Ryan Smith for MailOnline   Published:  22:27, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8035863/Love-Island-Laura-Whitmore-confirms-return-summer-following-Caroline-Flacks-death.html }
Laura Whitmore has confirmed that Love Island will return to screens in the summer, following speculation over the future of the show in light of Caroline Flack's death. It had previously been reported that bosses of the ITV2 show were locked in crisis talks in the days following Flack's shocking February 15 suicide, as they discussed whether to continue with the series or axe it altogether. But during Sunday night's live finale of the show's first ever winter series, Laura confirmed to viewers that the team was in the hunt for new recruits as she said: 'Love Island will be back in Majorca this Summer – head to the website for audition details.' Erstwhile host Caroline, 40, was found dead at her east London home hours before February 15th's episode was set to air, prompting bosses to cancel airing the show both on that day and on the 16th.  Executives were subsequently said to be working to hammer out a definitive plan on how to handle the ratings juggernaut going forward.  Financial Times' Mark Di Stefano took to Twitter last Sunday to report that bosses at ITV were locked in meetings to discuss how best to respond to the TV personality's tragic death. He wrote: 'ITV execs and programme makers are meeting now to discuss how to respond to Caroline Flack's death. Told to expect more information this afternoon on tonight's episode of Love Island and the long-term.' MailOnline has also learned that contestants on the show were not informed by show executives of Flack's tragic death until the hours leading up to Sunday's finale. Following a two-day hiatus, bosses continued airing the season's remaining episodes, with Paige Turley and Finn Tapp being crowned the eventual victors on Sunday night, followed by runners-up Siânnise Fudge and Luke Trotman.   The contestants are the first to take part in the show's winter series in South Africa, which has been presented by Whitmore after Flack stepped down following her arrest on suspicion of assaulting her boyfriend Lewis Burton, 27. Her next court date regarding the charges was scheduled for March 4. Flack tragically took her own life at her north London home while the friend who was staying with her 'popped out' to the shops.  It came just hours after she found out she would face trial next month, despite Mr Burton claiming he wanted to drop the charges.  A Love Island source last week told MailOnline was 'business as usual' in the villa, with contestants completely unaware the former host took her own life.  A spokesman for the show said on Saturday: 'Everybody at Love Island and ITV is shocked and saddened by this desperately sad news.'  The 40-year-old is the third person involved with the hit series to kill themselves. Sophie Gradon was found dead at the age of 32 in 2018, while the body of Mike Thalassitis, 26, was discovered near his home in 2019.  On Sunday, the hashtag #cancelloveisland was trending on Twitter, with several calling for the programme to be taken off air as The Jeremy Kyle Show was following the death of a guest.  Another show Flack recorded for Channel 4, The Surjury, has been cancelled as a mark of respect.  The new series, which was set to see participants go under the knife if they were given the thumbs-up by a 12-strong jury, was set to air later in 2020. A spokesperson for Channel 4 told Metro: 'We are shocked and saddened to hear the tragic news about Caroline Flack.  'Our deepest sympathies go out to Caroline's family and friends. Under the circumstances, we have decided not to broadcast The Surjury.'    ITV and Love Island producers have already come under scrutiny for prompting that decision, with many questioning what support they gave her.  Reality shows have been warned by Ofcom that they have a duty of care towards their stars.  Speaking on Sky News's Sophy Ridge on Sunday, Transport Secretary Grant Shapps echoed the TV regulator, saying 'the duty of care should be considered' over Flack's death.  But he warned: 'Clearly people making these programmes do have a duty of care, not just to contestants but to presenters as well. 'But I don't want to jump to conclusions. We know there were circumstances involved here.'  The former presenter has been described by friends as feeling 'on her own' and that she 'couldn't see a way out'.  They claim she was struggling with her mental health and using anti-depressants before her death.  Among Flack's final Twitter likes was a post advertising suicide prevention services at Christmas, which read: 'Hard time of year for a lot of folks. 'Suicide Hotline 116 123 (Samaritans) A simple copy and paste might save someone's life. If you are struggling, please please talk to someone. XXX'  MailOnline has contacted ITV for comment. If you have been affected by this story, you can call the Samaritans on 116 123 or visit www.samaritans.org    
