business
{ By Leah Simpson For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:56, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8035257/Homeless-people-pictured-sleeping-New-Yorks-overrun-Penn-Grand-Central-train-stations.html }
The scenes at Grand Central Terminal and Penn Station in New York have been pictured amid an apparent homeless crisis that is reportedly making the lives of commuters and tourists a misery. Images show displaced Americans trying to sleep on floors and even trash cans as travelers and business people go about their daily lives, while other photographs captured this weekend show them tucked up discreetly on benches and at food hall dining tables. But some pictures show panhandlers begging for money as people run to catch trains or stop to grab refreshments, and it has reportedly made people dread using the stations in Midtown Manhattan.   CBS previously reported by that at 5.30pm the Grand Central station 'becomes a homeless shelter' and potential customers are afraid to visit businesses.  The scene on Saturday showed people without a home using parts of the dining areas to rest with their belongings. A sign reads 'grab a seat and enjoy'. Others were seen around an area with a sink and drinking fountain for water or walking by the lost and found area with items of clothing. On Saturday, numerous police officers were seen moving people along. Those in need were pictured resting on garbage cans while others appeared to be in trouble with authorities. It's after it was reported the Bowery Residents Committee temporarily closed its outreach office at Penn Station after even members of the group hired to work with the homeless, couldn't handle it anymore.   Members said they had received a threat from one well-known homeless man who is believed to have threatened staffers at the office when he was told to leave. Eugene Watts allegedly responded by saying: 'I will leave, but I'm going to come back with a gun and shoot you'.  Watts denied he made the threat.  A spokesperson for Amtrak, which contracts with the BRC for its outreach services, said the office has since reopened, but did not have additional information.  The station, meanwhile, is increasingly becoming overrun by homeless people. One outside the station held a sign that read 'I might as well be invisible'.  'You see people who are barefoot. People throw ice in here. I've seen people literally defecate right here in front of the store,' said Cesar Rodriguez, who manages a Verizon store at the terminal, reports the New York Post.  Even former New York City Police Commissioner Bill Bratton took to Twitter to point out the rising problem within the terminal, noting it was already happening before the outreach program closed its doors. 'People always sleeping on the floor, all over the station,' he wrote in the social media post.   A July 2019 audit by the New York State Comptroller's office found that the nonprofit BRC had not been fulfilling its requirements under its contract. The report noted that staffers spent 26 per cent of their time doing actual outreach, and the rest inside the office, the New York Post reports. Rosenblatt said the BRC faces difficulties in carrying out its mission at the station. 'Homelessness is challenging for the person experiencing it,' he said. 'It's challenging for those of us trying to help people. It's challenging for the people who are using Penn Station to travel and shop'.  Homeless people, however, complained the BRC wasn't doing a good enough job providing them support.  The program is supported by funding from Amtrak and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, or MTA, which operates New York's local and express bus, subway and commuter rail services.      MTA Chief Safety Officer Patrick Warren says the agency 'fully expect our partners to meet the standards set forth in their contracts, and if those terms are not met appropriate actions will be taken'. Jean Rice, aged 80, said from the food terminal of Grand Central Terminal that he comes to Grand Central to monitor the police and service agencies treatment of the other homeless persons.  Jean is homeless but says that he can always call on a friend or family for a place to sleep and helps with the group Picture the Homeless.    A 65-year-old homeless woman named Dixie, from New York, said she has been without a place to live for 30 years and looks for food in Grand Central Terminal daily to survive. 
