{ By Australian Associated Press And Jackson Barron For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  16:27, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8034767/Eddie-McGuire-slammed-DEFENDING-Sam-Newmans-black-face-stunt.html }
Viewers of a documentary featuring AFL great Adam Goodes have slammed Eddie McGuire for defending Sam Newman's infamous Footy Show blackface stunt.   The Australian Dream, which had its television premiere on the ABC on Sunday night, focused on Goodes, who turned his back on the game after he retired in 2015 in the wake of an ugly racism row and years of booing from opposition fans.  The film includes a clip from a 1999 episode of the AFL Footy Show showing Newman with his face painted black as he imitated St Kilda champion Nicky Winmar, who had failed to turn up for a guest slot.  In the documentary, McGuire defended his long-time friend and colleague, who was born in 1945. 'He [Newman] didn't understand the nuance. He was a product of those times,' he said. 'He was a 60s 70s vaudevillian who was sending up Nicky Winmar because he didn't turn up on the show that night.' Winmar was targeted by racists throughout his playing career, including once being called a 'black c***' by Collingwood fans at Victoria Park in 1993.  2010 -  Made allusions about the sexuality of male figure skaters during the Winter Olympics  2013 - Made comments suggesting footballer Adam Goodes should be used to promote a King Kong musical  2015 - Called sports minister John Eren a 'soccer-loving, Turkish-born Mussie' 2016 - Joked about drowning journalist  Caroline Wilson at the Big Freeze (an event to raise money for motor neurone disease) 2019 - Scolded a double amputee who lost her legs in a plane crash for 'not tossing the coin properly' before an AFL match   After that game, he defiantly lifted his jersey and pointed to his skin in what became an iconic image in Australia's sporting history.  McGuire's defense of Newman was criticised by some viewers on Sunday night.  'Sam Newman is disgusting, but Eddie McGuire is equally vile. Making excuses for his behaviour creates space for it to exist. Gutless to the end,' Seb Conway said on Twitter. 'F*** off Eddie McGuire, making excuses for Sam Newman's blackface. They all knew it was racist and did nothing in the moment to address it,' Scott Trindall wrote. A third said of the footage: 'I can't actually get past Sam Newman and Eddie McGuire giggling like pathetic juveniles. Makes me sick.'    The documentary was praised by some social media users who described it as 'compelling viewing'. 'So important for everyone to watch The Australian Dream. Thank you Stan Grant, Adam Goodes and everyone involved,' Olympian turned politician Zali Steggall said.  'The Australian Dream should be compulsory viewing in all Australian schools,' another said.   But others objected to claims the booing of Goodes was racist. One Nation's New South Wales leader Mark Latham posted two tweets on Sunday night where he said the crowd behaviour during Goodes' games was not racially motivated. 'It's all blah, blah, blah, in the absence of any evidence whatsoever that the booing of Goodes was about his race,' Mr Latham tweeted. 'Just because the elites, from the comfort of clink-clink corporate boxes, think footy fans in the outer are racist deplorables, does not make it true. 'Fast Forward to 2045 at the ABC: 'Today we are launching our 39th film on the Booing of Adam Goodes, who retired 30 years ago, sure, but this time we have really nailed it, showing the racism our 38 earlier films didn't quite prove'. Always Biased C**p.'  The Australian Dream shows Goodes' rise from a talented schoolboy to a celebrated player before his career came to an end amid race-based controversies.  In 2013, a 13-year-old Collingwood supporter called Goodes an 'ape' and she was removed from the stadium by security. The incident sparked a national conversation about racism and plunged Goodes into a tumultuous final two years of his career, where he was relentlessly targeted by football fans. Many believed the subsequent booing of Goodes was simply racist, others said it was in response to his treatment of the young Collingwood fan and other controversies, such as when he ran toward a group of Carlton supporters with a war dance that included a spear-throwing motion.  The booing took a toll on Goodes, whose football career came to a halt when he retired from the game aged 35 in 2015.   'It [the football field] actually became a place I hated to walk out on to,' Goodes said in the film. Both McGuire and Newman sparked controversy towards the end of Goodes' career.  In the wake of the 'ape' incident, McGuire referenced Goodes and said he would be a good figure to promote a 'King Kong' musical, while Newman claimed fans weren't booing because Goodes was indigenous, but because he was 'being a jerk'.   Former Swans teammate and Goodes' best friend Michael O'Loughlin said parts of Goodes' film tipped him 'over the edge'. 'Listening to what Goodes' mum, who was part of the Stolen Generation, had gone through was particularly hard,' O'Loughlin said. 'Then she had to watch her boy play a game of football, imagine walking into an arena with 50,000 people booing your son or daughter. 'It's a really hard thing to take.'   Stan Grant, the film's writer, said that Aboriginal voices need to be listened to. He hopes the confronting subject matter of the film will start a conversation on constitutional recognition for indigenous people.  'Australia needs to get past the idea that because you speak up and you speak against the idea of what other people may think Australia is, it doesn't mean that you don't also love your country and want the best for your country,' Grant said. Grant hopes the confronting film can be an inspiring tale for viewers. 'It's a very challenging thing. Ultimately, for me, it can be a story of redemption and it can be a story of hope.'  Goodes said the response to the documentaries has been positive, with people coming up to him on the street and apologising for being part of the crowd that booed him.   This is Goodes' second film on the subject, with earlier feature The Final Quarter released in September 2019 and available to watch now on Stan. Booing and racist taunts forced dual Brownlow medallist Adam Goodes off the footy field he loved. Instead of feeling accepted and safe on the field, he hated it because of the booing he endured during his final years as a Swans player. 'It (the football field) actually became a place I hated to walk out on to,' Goodes says in documentary The Australian Dream. The film, directed by Daniel Gordon, premiered at the Melbourne International Film Festival and features candid interviews with the former AFL player. It shows his rise from a talented schoolboy to a celebrated player and finally a passionate advocate for indigenous Australians. Despite the confronting subject matter, the film is ultimately a story of hope, the film's writer Stan Grant said at the premiere. 'It's a very confronting, it's a very challenging thing. Ultimately, for me, it can be a story of redemption and it can be a story of hope,' Grant said. Aboriginal voices and experiences had to be listened to, he said. 'Australia needs to get past the idea that because you speak up and you speak against the idea of what other people may think Australia is, it doesn't mean that you don't also love your country and want the best for your country.' He called for the constitutional recognition of indigenous people and said treaties need to be negotiated. 'We need to deal with what Aboriginal people call the 'unfinished business of Australia', what is left over from our settlement. We are the only Commonwealth country not to have a treaty with our first peoples. The only one,' Grant said. Former Swans player and Goodes' best friend Michael O'Loughlin said parts of the film tipped him 'over the edge'. Listening to what Goodes' mum, who was part of the Stolen Generation, had gone through was particularly hard, he said. 'Then she had to watch her boy play a game of football, imagine walking into an arena with 50,000 people booing your son or daughter, it's a really hard thing to take,' he said. But he said it had prompted important conversations with his children, who also found the film confronting. NBA basketballer Ben Simmons, who is listed as an executive producer of the documentary, also attended the premiere but did not speak to media. Some commentators said opposition supporters booed Goodes because he was staging for free kicks in his latter years. In 2013, Goodes provoked a national conversation about racism when he demanded a 13-year-old Collingwood supporter who had called him an 'ape' be removed from the ground. He described the girl as the face of racism in Australia.    
