{ By Sean O'grady For Mailonline   Published:  15:57, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8034943/David-Gandy-joins-model-Bianca-Balti-Dolce-Gabbana-Milan-Fashion-Week.html }
He's one of the fashion industry's leading male models, known for his frequent collaborations with Dolce & Gabbana. And David Gandy looked dapper as he posed alongside Italian model Bianca Balti at the Dolce & Gabbana fashion show in Milan on Sunday. David, 40, cut a suave figure for the show, donning a black pinstripe blazer with matching trousers along with a crisp open-buttoned white shirt. At one point, the model also sported a pair of designer sunglasses as he posed for the cameras at the swanky event. Bianca, 35, looked glamorous as ever as she posed alongside David, donning a black long-sleeved crop top with a scoop neckline.  Displaying her lithe physique, the style maven also wore a matching black miniskirt while she added height to her frame with a pair of heels. Styling her brunette locks into an elegant updo, Bianca completed her look for the day with a pair of gold earrings. David entered the modelling industry when his friend, unbeknownst to him, entered him into a modelling competition on ITV's This Morning. The Essex native, who was 21 at the time, won the competition and a prize with Select Model Management in London. David became the industry's most successful male model and previously pinned his success down to his business mindedness. While other male models used the industry as a 'stepping stone' to another career in the public eye, David told how he learned how to achieve success from seeking advice from female supermodels. He told YOU magazine: 'I spoke to Gisele, I looked at the platforms of Christy Turlington, Cindy Crawford and I went, "How have you done this? How have you got to where you are?" ' David added that being a model sometimes makes him feel like he has something to prove when he walks into a room. He said: 'It's tough, sometimes, to walk into a meeting and feel you have to get past some barriers because you're a model – you have to constantly prove yourself. Then again, in life, when do you not have to prove yourself?'    
