business
{ By Luke Andrews For Mailonline   Published:  14:39, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8034825/HSBC-graduate-trainee-26-fell-love-manager-56-bombarding-89-messages.html }
An HSBC graduate trainee had an affair with her 56-year-old manager before bombarding him with 89 messages in four weeks and threatening to 'destroy your daughter and your career' after they broke up. Emily Salt, 26, who has a degree in International Business, Finance and Economics, met the manager during a six-month internship at the bank. But, after their relationship fell apart, she hounded him with angry messages and told his 16-year-old daughter: 'You look like a slut, your eyebrows are halfway up your head. Your dad makes enough money to get a nose job for you.' Salt pleaded guilty to causing her former partner harassment between April 15 and May 19 last year, and causing his daughter harassment between 1 November, 2018 and 1 August 2019 during a hearing at Croydon Magistrates' court, London.  She was sentenced to an 18-month restraining order, prohibiting her from contacting the two victims, 25 days of rehabilitation, 100 hours community service and ordered to pay £85 costs. Salt, who was hauled to court when she continued the harassment after moving from her home in Stockport, Greater Manchester, had attended Poynton High School and Alliance Manchester Business School. She had also sent insults aimed at the girl's mother. District Judge Nigel McLean told the trainee that her offences 'clearly crossed the custody threshold' as he handed down her sentence. 'The young victim was forced to endure nearly a year of your sustained abuse and harassment,' he said. 'It was designed to cause her maximum distress at a time she was sitting exams. 'Your actions in relation to the father were designed to cause him distress by subjecting him to harassment and abusing his daughter as well. The abuse they are subject to was sinister.' Prosecutor Julie Idowu said the former partner had told Salt 'not to contact him or his family' and had threatened to report her to the police. 'Facebook and Instagram accounts were set up in the name of the male complainant and friends and family of his received requests,' she said, 'but the accounts belonged to this defendant'. 'There was also an attempt to hack into the ISA account of the daughter. He received a text from the defendant notifying him of an attempt to liquidate the investment in his daughter's Junior ISA account.' Salt was initially charged with a £9,000 fraud regarding the ISA, but this was dropped at Inner London Crown Court.  Salt's lawyer Marina Williamson told the court: 'She met the victim during a six-month internship at the bank and little did she know it would end up in the terrible ordeal that has ended here. 'He was senior at the bank, thirty years older than her and she was quite vulnerable, quite young. She fell deeply in love with him and that is part of the reason she behaved so badly at the end. 'She was a victim of psychological manipulation, domestic violence at the hands of the complainant who lied and made false promises.'  
