business
{ By Stephen Gibbs for Daily Mail Australia   Published:  13:37, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8040631/How-life-Crinitis-founder-unravelled-restaurant-chain-fell-apart.html }
The founder of the famed Criniti's chain of Italian restaurants assaulted his ex-wife and injured another family member within weeks of the family business's failure. Frank Criniti was charged with two counts of assault occasioning actual bodily harm and one of common assault barely a month after five Criniti's outlets were closed. Before Criniti's was put into voluntary administration on November 19, 40-year-old Sydneysider Frank had no criminal record.  He is now facing five charges and is the subject of five apprehended violence order applications taken out by police to protect various family members. Parramatta Local Court heard this week Frank will seek to have the charges dealt with under Section 32 of the Mental Health (Forensic Provisions) Act rather than the criminal law. His solicitor Paul Crean told a magistrate on Monday: 'There's significant mental health issues with Mr Criniti.'  Scroll down for video  November 19, 2019: The Criniti chain  of restaurants begun by husband and wife Frank and Rima Criniti, goes into voluntary administration. November 25, 2019: Frank Criniti is pulled over at Northmead driving an Audi SQ7 without a licence. December 21, 2019: Frank is charged with the assault occasioning actual bodily harm of two relatives at Auburn. He pleads guilty to one charge. December 29, 2019: Frank kicks his ex-wife Rima at Castle Towers shopping centre.  January 7, 2020: Frank faces Parramatta Local Court where police seek an AVO protecting Rima.  February 13, 2020: Frank appears in Burwood Local Court where police apply for an AVO to protect his sister-in-law Lourdes. He is charged with breaching that order.   February 19, 2020: Frank faces Downing Centre Local Court where police seek an AVO protecting his brother Dominic, who is married to Lourdes. February 24, 2020: Frank pleads guilty at Parramatta to assaulting Rima. The AVO protecting her is confirmed. The court hears Frank wants his charges dealt with as mental health matters. Six days after Criniti's went into administration Frank was pulled over driving his Audio SQ7 at Northmead while his licence was suspended.  On December 21 he was arrested near his city address and charged with the assault occasioning actual bodily harm of two relatives at Auburn that afternoon. Eight days later he assaulted his ex-wife Rima during a confrontation at a Castle Hill shopping centre.  A statement of facts tendered to court revealed Frank kicked his ex-wife in the leg at Castle Towers after he warned her, 'Shut your mouth, I'm going to smack you across the head.' Frank was described in court papers as the operator of a cafe at The Big Flower nursery at Glenhaven, a semi-rural Sydney suburb where he once lived in a $9million mansion with his wife and their three children.  He is now the subject of a two-year AVO protecting Rima as well as interim AVOs protecting his younger brother Dominic, Dominic's wife Lourdes and two other relatives.  Frank has pleaded guilty to one of the assaults occasioning actual bodily harm and been charged with breaching the AVO which is supposed to protect his sister-in-law Lourdes.  Rima, 40, Dominic, 38, and Lourdes, 34, have all been heavily involved in the Criniti Group which includes the Frankie's Food Factory cafes.  Mr Crean said on Monday all his client's alleged criminal behaviour related to the collapse of the Criniti's empire. 'They are related offending,' he told magistrate Tim Keady. 'They're all involving family members since the demise of the family business.' Mr Crean described Frank as someone who had no previous criminal convictions before allegedly 'committing a number of offences in a short period of time.'  The allegations against Frank come as Criniti's restaurants in two states have been closed and new investors are being sought to take over what is left of the chain. Frank, Rima and Dominic are currently parties to several civil actions involving Criniti Group companies being heard in the equity division of the NSW Supreme Court. Rima, who launched the first Criniti's with her then husband Frank in Sydney in 2003, has described the eating empire's failure as preventable.   She did not wish to discuss Criniti's, the AVO or assault by her ex-husband when contacted by Daily Mail Australia. Frank also declined to comment on Monday. Rima and her then brother-in-law Dominic were the public faces of Criniti's in its heyday, while the now heavilly-tattooed Frank remained largely in the background.  Dominic's Linkedin profile still lists him as general manager at the Criniti Group, while his wife Lourdes says on social media she works at Frankie's Food Factory.  Criniti's was founded at Parramatta in Sydney's western suburbs in 2003 by Frank Criniti and his wife Rima. They were both just 23 The menu was designed to combine traditional Southern Italian food and contemporary Australian cuisine.  The Crinitis opened their second eatery at Darling Harbour in 2009, the year Rima left the business. The business became their flagship outlet. Criniti's became famous for their flashy fit-outs featuring Italian motorcycles and sports cars.  More NSW outlets followed at Woolloomooloo Wharf, Kirrawee and Manly in Sydney, Wollongong, and Kotara in Newcastle. Criniti's spread interstate to Chermside in Brisbane, Cannington in Perth, and Southbank and Carlton in Melbourne.  Some customers have complained the quality of food and service went down while prices continued to go up as the business expanded.  On 19 November, 2019 the chain went into voluntary administration and five of its 13 restaurants were closed. Criniti's, famous for its two and three metre long pizzas, once boasted 13 eateries across Australia. At the Woolloomooloo Wharf celebrity hangout two Ducati motorcycles were hung from the ceiling and diners were chauffeured in a Rolls Royce Phantom to the door. While eight of the Criniti's outlets are still trading the entrepreneurial world of its founder has unravelled and the family company's halcyon days are over.  Frank, whose parents immigrated from Italy in the 1960s, was disqualified from managing companies for five years in 2018 due to his involvement in seven other failed businesses. The Australian Securities and Investments Commission found he had used his position to gain advantage for himself and others and provided false information to authorities. He also acted as a de facto director while not appointed as a director and failed to pay $3.5million in taxes. A year earlier Frank told the New South Wales Supreme Court some of his financial backers had used Comanchero bikies to threaten to shoot up his restaurants.  The first Crinti's was opened by Frank and Rima in Church Street, Parramatta, 17 years ago when they were both just 23.  The original restaurant proved hugely popular and six years later the couple launched a venue at Darling Harbour which was also an immediate hit and became the company's flagship. At its peak there were nine Criniti's restaurants in New South Wales, two in Victoria and one each in Queensland and Western Australia.  Rima quit Criniti's in 2009 to raise the couple's children and start a fashion business, leaving Frank and other members of the family in charge of the restaurants.  The couple divorced but briefly reconciled in 2017. Rima, who has claimed Criniti's expanded too quickly and was poorly managed in later years, has had nothing to do with the business since then.  When it was announced Criniti's was being put into voluntary administration five of its restaurants were closed and scores of staff sacked without notice.  The directors of Criniti Restaurant Group, which comprises 38 companies involved in operating the restaurants, appointed Worrells Solvency and Forensic Accountants.  Outlets in Manly, Kirrawee and Wollongong in New South Wales, Cannington in Perth and Chermside in Brisbane were shut. Restaurants in Parramatta, Wetherill Park, Castle Hill, Darling Harbour and Woolloomooloo in Sydney, as well as Kotara in Newcastle and Southbank and Carlton in Melbourne remain open. Rima blamed the collapse in part on accumulated debt and the chain's rapid expansion.  'While I left the business almost a decade ago, I have continued to dine at Criniti's with my children, and have always loved the food and the experience,' she told Daily Mail Australia in November. 'However, it takes more than fantastic food and hospitality to make a restaurant group a success.' 'It also requires smart management. There are very high costs involved in the hospitality industry, and if this is met with poor business decisions, then the business, its staff, and customers, will all suffer - as we now see with Criniti's.' Criniti's 'specialises' in wood fired pizza, fresh pasta, steaks and ribs, seafood, desserts and pastries. Critics have claimed its menu is overloaded.  After the failure of the chain was announced customers turned to social media to complain prices had continued to go up while the quality of food and service had gone down. Criniti's administrator Graeme Beattie has said high overheads and low consumer spending had contributed to the financial distress of the 'well-known, well-liked' restaurant chain.  'There is some magic in the Criniti's name, with the early locations in particular achieving near-iconic status in the minds of many Australians,' Mr Beattie said in November. 'The level of brand recognition and affinity is extraordinary for a small business of this size and we're confident that shrewd investors will want to take the name forward.'  Mr Beattie said it was still not clear exactly what led to Criniti's downfall. 'At this early stage, we've yet to fully discern all of the factors leading to Criniti's financial problems,' he said. 'Third-party commentary about these factors or the performance of current management, whether from arms' length critics or people previously associated with the company, should be regarded as speculation or uninformed opinion.' This is the full statement Worrells Solvency and Forensic Accountants made about Criniti's on November 27:  The Administrators of the companies comprising the well-known restaurant group are preparing a leaner and hungrier Criniti's for sale as a going concern, with the hunt for a new owner likely to commence next week. Worrells Solvency and Forensic Accountants NSW & ACT partner Mr Graeme Beattie said: 'There is some magic in the Criniti's name, with the early locations in particular achieving near-iconic status in the minds of many Australians. The level of brand recognition and affinity is extraordinary for a small business of this size and we're confident that shrewd investors will want to take the name forward. 'For the last week it has been business as usual for the majority of Criniti's Italian restaurants, which we expect to trade strongly through the Christmas and New Year period.' Very soon after their appointment by Criniti Group directors on 18 November 2019, the Worrells team made the difficult but necessary decision to immediately close 5 of the 13 restaurants: Manly, Wollongong and Kirrawee in Sydney, Chermside in Brisbane and Cannington in Perth. 'Criniti's is famed for raising the bar with respect to interior fit-outs. From Monday 25 November we've been taking offers for plant and equipment from those locations unable to maintain ordinary operations,' said Mr Beattie. 'The slimmed-down Crinitis is refocussed on its Sydney roots. At the original restaurant in Parramatta and the flagship Darling Harbour location, trade has remained seasonally brisk throughout this difficult week. Woolloomooloo, Wetherill Park and Castle Hill are open and performing to plan, while Kotara in Newcastle and the popular Southbank and Carlton locations in Melbourne are doing well too. 'The ability to rapidly streamline Criniti's and put it on the path to sustainability speaks to the variability across our fragile retail economy,' said Mr Beattie. 'A streamlined, re-focussed Criniti's will be well-placed to trade profitably throughout the peak hospitality season, so we may run competing processes to maximise returns to creditors; outright sale of the business as a going concern, and negotiation of a Deed of Company Arrangement.' In response to questions about the cause of Criniti's financial distress, Mr Beattie said: 'At this early stage, we've yet to fully discern all of the factors leading to Criniti's financial problems. Third-party commentary about these factors or the performance of current management, whether from arms' length critics or people previously associated with the company, should be regarded as speculation or uninformed opinion.'   
