{ By Ellie May Donohoe For Mailonline   Published:  11:41, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8034577/Anya-Taylor-Joy-usual-gorgeous-self-quirky-slogan-t-shirt-pin-striped-coat.html }
She shot to fame when appearing in 2015's scariest film, The Witch, and is now wowing audiences as the starring role in period drama Emma.  And Anya Taylor-Joy, 23, was every bit the leading lady when she stepped out in New York on Saturday night in a cutting edge ensemble.   The stunning actress cut a quirky figure in a fun slogan t-shirt paired with tight PVC leggings in a burgundy shade as well as toughening things up in army boots. Anya looked sensational as she stepped out in the edgy ensemble which combined a mishmash of styles with a perfect finish.  The Witch star wore a pinstriped over coat and matched her ensemble with burgundy Dr. Martens. The natural beauty highlighted her porcelain complexion and angular features with a pop of blush and a scarlet pout.  She pushed back her bright blonde locks with black sunglasses and wore a couple of silver chains around her neck.  Emma is the latest adaptation of the iconic Jane Austen novel. It tells the story of the 'handsome, clever and rich' Emma Woodhouse who spends her time meddling in the love lives of her friends and those around her. The film also stars Bill Nighy, Miranda Hart and Mia Goth, and is the directorial debut for fashion photographer Autumn de Wilde. Anya has spoken openly about the film's level of male nudity, and recently said that they 'weren't shy' about including such racy scenes in the picture.  Speaking on the UK chat show Lorraine, she explained that there is a scene in the film when Lovesick star Johnny Flynn - who plays George Knightley - rips off his clothes in a nod to the famous Colin Firth scene in Pride and Prejudice. She said: 'We weren't shy about [male nudity] in the film. We thought it was about time that we utilise the female gaze! It was time for that.' Of the period drama and the choice for the male costumes, Anya went on: 'It was also interesting, because no one really knows how the men got dressed... 'You see a lot of scenes of women pulling the corsets and all of that, but the whole production of men getting dressed too, you couldn't do it by yourself if you were wealthy, and so it was interesting.' Anya's rise to fame began when she was 16 on a shopping trip to Harrods, when she was spotted by Sarah Doukas, the founder of Storm Models – and the woman who similarly discovered Kate Moss. After embarking on a catwalk career, ambitious Anya broke into the film business in 2015 in the horror movie The Witch.  
