{ By Sean O'grady For Mailonline   Published:  09:01, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8034373/Nicole-Scherzinger-joins-Pussycat-Dolls-stage-G-Y-London-reunion-tour-show.html }
They put on a showstopping performance during their recent appearance on Ant and Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway.   And The Pussycat Dolls ensured all eyes were on them as they kicked off their reunion tour with a gig at London's famous G-A-Y bar on Saturday evening. Thousands of fans queued outside the venue hoping to catch a glimpse of who went onstage at 2.00am, with the award-winning group belting out their favourite hits to a sold out crowd.  Nicole cut a sultry figure as she took to the stage in a white leotard with a matching train while she cinched her waist with a black corset. The lead singer singer, 41, also donned a pair of fishnet tights and added height to her frame with black ankle boots. Letting her brunette locks fall loose down her shoulders, Nicole completed her look for the gig with a black choker with a silver chain. The other Dolls all wore similar garments, with Carmit, 45, sporting a silver shimmering cropped hoodie along with eye-catching black tights. Strictly star Ashley, 38, went for a daring look for the show in a white bralet with matching bottoms and sheer shorts. Got To Dance judge Kimberly Wyatt, 38, looked radiant in a white cropped shirt with a frilled neckline along with a black corset and dark tights. Rounding out the group was Jessica Sutta, 37, who looked sensational in a white top and black corset which she wore with a silver floral wrapping.  Backstage the girls hung out with The Greatest Dancer judge Todrick Hall and G-A-Y owner Jeremy Joseph.  The Pussycat Dolls announced they were reuniting for a tour last November after an almost ten year hiatus. The girl group was formed as a burlesque troupe in 1995 by choreographer Robin Antin, going on to release hits such as Don't Cha, Buttons and Stickwitu.  Sharing the details about their reunion last year, the X Factor judge said she is 'so excited' about getting back together with the Don't Cha hitmakers - and hopes they will 'push each other'.   Their reunion was partly inspired by the Spice Girls successful tour over the summer, as the women claimed they felt the series of performances were 'inspiring'.  The tour will kick off in April 2020 amid rumours of a rift over Nicole's dominant role in both the recording studio and on stage.     It comes after Ant and Dec finished off a star-studded comeback episode of Saturday Night Takeaway by stripping off during The Pussycat Dolls' performance. The girlband were on the primetime ITV show to sing a medley of hits during the 'end of the show show' but the hosts were concerned about the raunchiness of their routine. The hilarious skit was in reference to the 419 complaints the group's December X-Factor appearance received, after viewers say the act looked like a 'strip show'. Taking to the stage on Saturday night, the Dolls wowed in scantily-clad ensembles as they sung a range of their hits. But throughout the show Ant and Dec had joked that their performance would be 'family friendly', so when the racy routine kicked off their sprinted down to the stage with a huge mock censor buttons. Lead singer Nicole enjoyed the funny gag, before saying 'Ant and Dec, excuse me' as she continued to belt out Don't Cha. The duo then held up a huge ITV 'disruption' sign to cover the screen, only for the girls to burst through it with the use of their hands and heels.  As the girls moved across the studio, Ant and Dec removed their suit jackets and tried to place them on Nicole and Kimberly. When that failed, the cheeky hosts started taking off their shirts as the audience cheered, before Dec got down on the floor so Ant could pull his trousers off over his shoes. Both presenters were left wearing white vests and striped boxer shorts, with sock garters on their calves as the number came to an end. Earlier in the show, Ant and Dec chatted to the entertainment act where they referenced their recent racy X Factor performance. Dec said: 'They were practically in their underwear, it was raunchy, this is a family show - I'm worried about the kids, and the dads! Two were hospitalised last time.' 'Simon Cowell hasn't recovered, he looks shocked all the time!'  Viewers were left very impressed with the show's return following a two-year hiatus, with one viewer writing: 'I am so happy #SaturdayNightTakeaway is back!' Another said: 'I am sitting here crying with laughter... so fabulous having @antanddec back on top form on #SaturdayNightTakeaway #themeninbrown.' A third said: 'Wow I've missed #SaturdayNightTakeaway so so happy to see @antanddec back on my TV @itvtakeaway.' Another confessed: 'All my family don't really watch Saturday night takeaway but it's honestly my favourite show and makes me so happy so I'm currently watching it alone but low key don't even care. @antanddec #SaturdayNightTakeaway.'  Ant's return to Saturday Night Takeaway had been much anticipated after the show took a hiatus last year in the wake of his drink-drive arrest. The presenter took a break from presenting duties after he was arrested for drink-driving in March 2018, while he and Dec were still hosting Saturday Night Takeaway. McPartlin told police he was 'ashamed and mortified' after crashing his car while drink-driving with his mother in the passenger seat. His new licence was issued in July 2019, MailOnline understands. Ant's £86,000 fine eclipsed the £54,000 imposed on footballer Yaya Toure for the same offence in 2016, reported at the time to be the biggest sanction of its kind in the UK. The 20-month ban always had the option of a five-month reduction if Ant completed the referral programme, which he has now completed. 
