business
{ By Ciara Farmer For Mailonline   Published:  08:51, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8034407/Lauren-Goodger-mixes-business-pleasure-Essex-night-out.html }
Her wardrobe choices are seldom demure.а So it was little surprise when Lauren Goodger hit the town on Saturday night while sporting a sizzling ensemble which showcased all her best assets.а The former TOWIE star, 33, flaunted her sartorial prowess in a plunging lace bodysuit worn underneath a chic pink suit, comprising of a blazer and flares.а Lauren looked stunning for the evening on the town as she highlighted her deeply tanned skin with the help of the blush pink suit.а Her surgically-enhanced assets were taking centre stage as she sported the deeply plunging black top with the racy lace trim. She added some designer touches to the ensemble by holding on to herаг835 Eye Trunk Louis Vuitton phone case and sported an Yves Saint Lauren bag.а Earlier this month, Lauren finally divulged details of why she was left in hospital over Christmas, after a mystery illness left fans fearing for her.а Speaking to new! magazine, the Celebs Go Dating star admitted she was taken to hospital on Boxing Day after she defied doctors' orders and took herself off antidepressants, which left her with heart palpitations and suffering a panic attack. While she admits her blood has come back normal and she should be on the mend, Lauren revealed she 'feels ill everyday'. Elsewhere, she also denied that she has had surgery, including implants or fat transfer to enhance the look of her derriere. Lauren told the publication: 'I've always been thick set and I've always had a big bum. That's the way it is. Feel it if you want! I've not had implants.' She also insisted she would allow anyone to do a Kim Kardashian-inspired X-ray on her bottom to make sure that it was real. In 2011, reality TV star Kim, 39, had a scan to show critics that she has not had silicone implants in her cheeks after reading stories about her curves. Denying any type of surgery, she said: 'No, I've just got a big a**e! Feel free to do any X-rays or scans or whatever you need to do to prove it. Fat transfers don't last. 'You need to keep getting them redone and I'd be forever under the knife if that were the case!' Lauren went on to reveal that although she had lipo and sculpting three years ago she hasn't had any since and any fluctuation is down to weight gain or loss. а 
