business
{ By Sophie Law For Mailonline   Published:  08:50, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8034361/Police-watchdog-delays-decision-investigate-Boris-Johnsons-relationship-Jennifer-Arcuri.html }
The police watchdog has delayed its decision to investigate Boris Johnson's relationship with American businesswoman Jennifer Arcuri as it hunts witnesses. The Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) has been evaluating whether to investigate the Prime Minister for possible criminal offence of misconduct in public office since September. But the decision has been pushed back until after the general election in December.  The watchdog confirmed it was doing a 'scoping exercise' to track down witnesses globally, and said that it had 'never put a timescale on how long this process would take', according to the Observer.   This move means that possible damaging headlines won't come to light until after Mr Johnson's campaign.  London assembly members  said it 'beggars belief' that the watchdog would take this long to investigate after they were told it would be 'done and dusted' by November, the publication reports..  In a statement, the IPOC said that the allegation date back 'eight years' and they have to 'locate and speak with a number of potential witnesses both in the country and abroad'. Mr Johnson has consistently denied any wrongdoing in relation to his friendship with Ms Arcuri. It follows a report by The Sunday Times that Ms Arcuri, an American who moved to London seven years ago, was given £126,000 in public money and was treated to privileged access to three foreign trade missions led by Mr Johnson while he was mayor. The Government has since frozen a £100,000 grant to Ms Arcuri's company, Hacker House, pending a review. It is facing embarrassing questions about the verification process carried out before awarding the money. Digital Minister Matt Warman told the Commons that his department had done the 'usual due diligence' and that the company had a British phone number. However, numerous reports said calls to the number were directed to an office in California, where Ms Arcuri, 34, is said to now be based. 
