business
{ By Jackson Barron For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  07:43, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8034235/School-wont-swimming-pool-Mack-Horton-threaten-interests-China.html }
An exclusive Melbourne school won't name its new aquatic centre after Mack Horton because it could threaten its business interests with China. Caulfield Grammar School has abandoned plans to name its new $25million swimming facility after the Olympic champion following his snub of Chinese rival Sun Yang. Horton refused to join Sun on the podium at the swimming world championships in South Korea last year, and previously labelled him a 'drug cheat' at the 2016 Rio Olympic Games. Horton is Caulfield Grammar's only Olympic champion. Its plans to name the pool after him were withdrawn to keep their Chinese business interests on side. Caulfield Grammar opened a boarding house in Nanjing in mainland China in 1998 and send Year Nine students on a language and cultural immersion program every year.  A spokeswoman for the school refused to comment on Horton's snub and told The Sydney Morning Herald the pool has not been named. 'Mack and his family have a strong relationship with the school. They continue to be valued and integral members of our school community,' the spokeswoman said. Horton copped backlash from Sun's fans following their feud and was slammed on social media, with his family, partner and sponsors also being attacked by the Chinese swimmer's supporters. Sources close to the matter told the Herald the school intended to name its pool after Horton prior to his snub.   The 23-year-old is an advocate for clean sport and believed Sun should not have been able to swim at the 2019 World Championships due to his impending doping trial. Sun was convicted of doping in 2014 and was accused of destroying vials of his blood with a hammer during a clash with testers in 2018.   If Sun is found guilty, he will receive a lifetime ban from the sport. It is not yet known when his trial in the Court of Arbitration for Sport will finish.  Horton will be looking to defend his 400 metre freestyle gold medal at the Tokyo Olympics in 2020 and will swim in the Australian Olympic qualifiers in June. 
