{ By Brian Marks and Deirdre Simonds For Dailymail.com   Published:  06:00, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8034151/Jessica-Alba-Eva-Mendes-lovely-looks-Create-Cultivate-conference.html }
They were gathered to help women to 'create and cultivate the career of their dreams.' Jessica Alba looked chic yet ready for business as she attended the Create & Cultivate Conference at the Rolling Greens home decor store in Los Angeles. The 38-year-old actress' look was matched by 45-year-old Eva Mendes' lovely floral dress, and the event was also attended by a bevy of celebrities including Jessica Simpson, Lauren Conrad and Tia Mowry. Jessica's smart suit featured a dark olive jacket with wide lapels that was belted around her waist to highlight her hourglass figure. She wore a matching pair of pants and a dark green blouse underneath. The L.A.'s Finest star elevated her 5ft7in stature with a pair of pointy leopard print heels, and her caramel-colored tresses cascaded over her shoulders in gentle waves.  Eva stunned in a cream-colored dress covered in elegant purple and gold floral designs. She had her auburn tresses tied up in a matching hair wrap, with her bangs peaking out over one eye. The wife of Ryan Gosling wore a thin black belt around her midriff, and she accessorized with a cream clutch and large tear drop–shaped pearl earrings.  Lauren Conrad opted for a simple white ribbed sweater with floppy short sleeves. She beamed on the red carpet and wore a chic pair of baggy burgundy slacks with a bow tied down her front. Tia Mowry spiced up the event with her long peach jacket with rolled up sleeves and a matching satin dress. Culinary TV host Elizabeth Chambers, who's married to Armie Hammer, looked sleek in a pale yellow dress with long sleeves. The outfit featured lustrous diagonal stripes, and she wore pointy white open-toe heels. Alyson Stoner was also in attendance, sporting a saucy khaki and gold look. Vanderpump Rules' Stassi Schroeder went classic in a black sweater, layered over a white button-down shirt.  Jessica Simpson had all eyes on her in her hot pink suit and sultry sheer black turtleneck, which revealed a hint of her cleavage. She was joined by Queer Eye's Antoni Porowski, who looked cool in a leather bomber jacket, great sweater and dark jeans. Jaclyn Johnson, founder of Create & Cultivate, displayed an infectious smile while wearing a belted lilac dress with a frayed hem and matching open-toe heels. Jessica Simpson was on hand at the event to deliver it's keynote address.  The 39-year-old singer and actress took the opportunity to also promote her new memoir Open Book. The mother-of-three gave a first look of her trendy ensemble to her 5.2 million Instagram followers while posing in front of a rainbow with one hand on her hip before addressing the crowd. 'I can't wait to see all of you for my keynote!' the star captioned the picture of herself  holding a black leather black. While speaking to a packed house, the Hallelujah singer took off her over-sized black shades and shared a powerful message of perseverance and strength.  'We are all figuring it out and that's okay. Figuring it out is the fun part,' she told the audience. 'It is through the mistakes that we can find the leader within us.'  While speaking Simpson showed off her natural beauty with a glossy pout and kept her long tresses down. Simpson during her keynote also touched on the importance of size inclusivity and said, 'I don't ever want to exclude a customer. I've been every size there is, and in those moments, I felt I deserved a nice outfit.'  Simpson appeared comfortable and laid-back, as the event's founder Jaclyn Johnson interviewed her at Rolling Greens ahead of a book signing.   While Simpson appeared radiant and beaming, she covered a number of difficult chapters, in addition to sharing advice to other aspiring entrepreneurs.   After suffering from the trauma of being sexually abused as a child, the blonde bombshell admitted to using alcohol and pills as an escape in her emotional memoir. Her candid book, which came out earlier this month, tackles the events that pushed her to sobriety and realizing she need to make a change.  In one excerpt, Jessica Simpson revealed that she started drinking at 7:30 in the morning on Halloween 2017, which became her rock bottom. The performer revealed that she was 'terrified of letting' her kids see her in that state, adding that she is 'ashamed to say' that she didn't know who got them in their costumes that night, via People.  Jessica said that on Halloween morning, she and husband Eric Johnson were on their way to a school assembly for daughter Maxwell with Jessica in the passenger seat.  Thee star, who also runs a billion dollar clothing/lifestyle brand, recalled that 'It was 7:30 in the morning and I'd already had a drink.'   Afterwards, they headed and prepped for a Halloween party they were hosting; Jessica's costume was of her pal country singer Willie Nelson. While she was getting ready for the party with her team gluing on her fake beard and helping her with her wig, she had 'zoned out.   Soon after, Eric asked her if she wanted to get the kids ready for the bash but realized that she wasn't in a state to do so: 'I was terrified of letting them see me in that shape.'  Jessica married Eric, 40, in 2014 after dating for four years; they have three children together: daughters Maxwell, seven, and Birdie, 10 months, and son Ace, six.    After she hit rock bottom on Halloween, Jessica faced her emotional pain and anxiety with the support of her parents and friends, a team of doctors and therapy twice a week. Most of her emotional pained stemmed from her childhood sexual abuse, which often led her to pour a drink; Jessica said: 'The fear of being alone and scared in the dark was one I'd had since I was abused as a child.' The star said that her sobriety 'was a long, hard emotional journey,' but her experience led her to write her book and also six new songs she release with her audio book.   After she got sober at the age of 37, the singer sat down and started writing her story, initially thinking she was too young to have a memoir. However, once she started writing it out, she said she 'didn't realize all the stuff I had to say until I was actually connected to it through music and writing. So when I started to go through all the depth of the pain that I was experiencing, I realized I was pretty rock bottom.' 
