business
{ By Caleb Taylor For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:29, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8034041/Michael-Clarke-hits-gym-sweat-session-amid-split-wife-Kyly-Clarke.html }
Cricketer Michael Clarke announced his split from his lifestyle guru wife Kyly, earlier this month.  And the 38-year-old hit the gym for an intense sweat session on Sunday, amid the intense public interest of the break-up. Michael documented his workout on Instagram Stories, uploading a snap of himself honing his post-breakup physique on a weights bench.   'Love a Sunday morning session,' Michael wrote as he showed off his muscle-bound arms in the mirror.  He also shared a snap of himself standing on a scale showing his weight to be 82.4kg.   'Extra cardio paying off,' the proud sportsman wrote next to the image.  Later, he shared a video of himself spending time with daughter Kelsey-Lee, four, who was filmed riding her bike on the Bondi Beach promenade.  'Not sure about you but my legs are cooked,' he captioned the clip.  Michael shares Kelsey-Lee with his ex-wife Kyly.   It comes after P.E. Nation founder Pip Edwards was forced to deny romance rumours between herself and Michael.  Speaking to The Sunday Telegraph this week, Pip said she had been supporting her friend and business associate 'through a rough time'. Pip told the publication that she has been friends with Michael for 12 years, and that they simply have a business association. The 40-year-old, who shares a son with ex-partner Dan Single, went on to reveal that she's been supporting Michael in the wake of his high-profile split from wife Kyly.   'Michael and I over the past month have spent more personal time together,' she said.  'I have been supporting Michael through what has been a rough time with the public view on his divorce.' 'As I have been through this before, I understand what a stressful situation this can be when you are in the media storm of a break-up and feel you have no privacy.'    The statement comes after Michael was spotted leaving Pip's Bondi home in Sydney from an underground car park early Thursday morning.  The father-of-one left the luxury apartment block in his $54,000 BMW just before 9am, with Pip leaving moments later in her black Mercedes. Michael had parked his SUV in Pip's underground garage during the visit to her coastal home.   Rumours had circulated through Sydney's eastern suburbs about the pair's friendship, but both have said previously that they are not romantically involved. Both Michael and Pip confirmed to Daily Mail Australia last week that the two have been close friends for 12 years and are now collaborating on work.   It is understood there was no third party involved in Michael's shock split from his wife, Kyly. They have been separated for five months, but only revealed their split in a surprise announcement on February 12. The Clarkes, who were high-school sweethearts, have said the 'amicable' decision to separate was 'the best course' for their four-year-old daughter Kelsey Lee. Michael and Kyly have reportedly already agreed terms on their divorce - as well as arrangements to co-parent their daughter - without going through the courts. 
