{ By Kylie Stevens For Daily Mail Australia and Australian Associated Press   Published:  02:06, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8033839/June-Dally-Watkins-dies-aged-92.html }
Australia's first supermodel, style icon and etiquette queen June Dally-Watkins has died at the age of 92. Her family announced she died peacefully on Saturday night with her loved ones by her side.  Born near Tamworth in country New South Wales in 1927, she became Australia's first supermodel and was crowned the nation's Model of the Year in 1949. In 1950, she established the June Dally-Watkins School, which trained hundreds of Australian women in deportment and etiquette and soon became the country's best known expert. She established the nation's first modelling agency the following year and later opened business college.  Ms Dally-Watkins spent her final years teaching etiquette to young women in China. She established a school in Sydney and later one in Brisbane. In 2017, modelling agency Chic Management bought the Brisbane school, now known as JDW Education and Training. The Sydney school has closed. 'Terrible news to hear today but Miss Dally will be remembered by so many as an inspiration to always be 'The Best That You Can Be' no matter where you come from. Rest in peace Miss Dally,' JDW Education and Training posted on its Facebook page on Sunday.  Former students took to social media to pay tribute to the teacher known Miss Dally who transformed their lives forever. 'She had a great impact on me personally in regards to generosity of spirit. I still use so many things she taught me in my life so many years later. She was an inspiration to so many. A teacher, a friend, a detective, a leader and a truly great lady in so many other ways,' one woman commented. Another added: 'Miss Dally, I came to you as a loud-mouthed 18 year old, and you shaped me into the woman I am today - putting kindness and compassion above all. Each time I walk down a staircase, each time I pick up a fork, each time a waiter pours my wine, each time I have a manicure I think of you. You lived for everything that is beautiful in this world. Your memory will be eternal.' Celebrities have also taken to social media to express their sadness about the loss of a fashion icon and national treasure. 'This is so sad. What a wonderful woman. She was so kind to my son Leo. He hasn’t on her lap and she tried to teach him table manners at the age of 3. All class,' singer and Today Extra co-host David Campbell tweeted. She was awarded the Medal of the Order of Australia in 1993 for services to business, and was named as one of the 100 Australian Legends and a National Treasure. Ms Dally-Watkins is survived by four children, seven grandchildren and one great-grandchild. The family requested their privacy be respected during this difficult time. Funeral details will be released at a later time.  In her last ever television interview on Sky News last July, Ms Dally-Watkins  expressed her amazement about that the world was getting worse in regard to proper manners. 'I would like to see them speak correctly, the way they speak and what they say,' she said. 'I would love to see young people with good manners, be very aware of other people and be kind, thoughtful and caring to other people.' She also urged everyone to have respect. 'Respect yourself first. If you have respect and good manners and you conduct yourself in a way which is very acceptable, then that's so important.' In her 2002 autobiography In The Secrets Behind My Smile, Ms Dally-Watkins recalled how most of Australian society disapproved when she returned to work after the birth of each of her four children. 'I was made to feel a failure as a wife and mother, but I resolved to never give up the right to live my own life. Had I bowed to the status quo and stayed at home it would have destroyed me,' she wrote. Ms Dally-Watkins threw herself into her work after her 15-year marriage to navy lieutenant John Clifford ended in 1968. 'The business was my first baby and my children's oldest sibling,' she wrote.   
