business
{ By Sameer Suri For Dailymail.com   Published:  02:04, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8033505/Cardi-B-defends-Gabrielle-Union-Dwyane-Wade-criticism-trans-daughter-Zaya-12.html }
Cardi B has spoken out to defend Gabrielle Union's husband Dwyane Wade for supporting his 12-year-old's gender transition.  Gabrielle, 47, and her husband have received both praise and backlash for supporting Zaya, formerly named Zion. On Friday Cardi, 27, went Live on Instagram and told her fans: 'People are born like that, like that Lady Gaga song: 'I was born this way.' That s*** is f***ing real.'' Cardi, who has been publicly supportive of her bisexual sister Hennessy Carolina, was addressing the argument that Zaya is 'too young to transition.' The Bodak Yellow rapper mused: 'But it's like, how old is too young? If you were born thinking that you are a girl in a boy's body, how old do you have to be to keep knowing that that's who you are?' She argued: 'That's who you are. That's your identity. If that's who you feel that you are, how old - what is the age limit for you to know that that's what you want to be?' Cardi then compared Zaya's situation to her own, saying: 'There's certain things that I always wanted to do when I was younger, right? And I'd be – and I started to do now, now that I have money, I be like: "Wow, I wish I woulda been learning how to do this. I wish I woulda been knowing this and that. I woulda been happy."' She explained her point: 'What's the point of you being older and then transitioning and being like: 'Damn, I shoulda been do this. I coulda been found my happiness if I woulda been doing.' Let people find they happiness, especially kids. Let them feel comfortable doing what they want to be.' Cardi shared that 'A lot of trans that I know around me, and when I ask them like: 'When did you knew that you wanted, you know, to change?' And they said: 'I always felt like I was a girl. I always felt like I was a girl. Like I was born like this.' The Bronx-born celebrity allowed: 'Some people are old school because the parents, the grandparents that raised them, or the area that they grew up in. A lot of people don't grow up with trans, gay people, this and that. They just don't, so you know, I understand that they just don't be understanding certain s***.' She said: 'But please, try to understand. 'Cause sometimes you'll be wanting people to understand you, so try to understand somebody else, especially when it's a child.' Zaya is Dwayne's daughter from his previous marriage to Siohvaughn Funches, with whom he also shares 18-year-old son Zaire Blessing. He also has a six-year-old son, Xavier Zechariah, with Aja Metoyer. Dwayne and Gabrielle, who've been married since 2014, have a daughter together named Kaavia James, who is one year old. Cardi said she disagreed with the line of thinking that Dwyane and Gabrielle should not have gone public about Zaya if they did not want criticism. 'Before he even came out, I used to see people saying: "Oh, I think is son is kinda, you know, zesty, this, this and that." Why keep a secret and feel like a burden and feel like: 'Oh, my gosh, what's gonna happen if somebody find out?'' she said. 'Somebody is going to find out. And then somebody's going to put the business out there, and y'all gonna be laughing. Speak your truth. Speak it.' The Be Careful rapper shares her one-year-old daughter Kulture with her husband Offset of Migos fame, whom she married in 2017. Cardi, who famously once threw a shoe at Nicki Minaj during New York Fashion Week in 2018, is now being sued for assault by a security guard. The guard in question is a woman called Emani Ellis who alleges that Cardi spit on her and repeatedly hit her in February 2018, TMZ reports citing court documents.  Witnesses told the website that Emani was trying to either photograph or film Cardi at a doctor's office and the rapper objected because of where they were. At that point Cardi was approximately four months along in her pregnancy, which she had yet to announce to the public.  
