{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  01:54, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8033815/Parliament-faces-stoush-climate.html }
As politicians return to Canberra the focus will once again be more on what's going on in parliament's corridors than its chambers. The response to climate change is again likely to dominate political debate this week after Labor announced its long-term, uncosted emissions target. And just when the Morrison government might have hoped the sports rorts scandal had faded from the news cycle, there are new claims that funding for urban infrastructure spending was being used as an election rort. After a decade of skirmishes, the battle over climate change has again heated up, with the government expected to pressure Labor over its recommitment to make Australia carbon neutral by 2050. Finance Minister Mathias Cormann said it was a "reckless and irresponsible" approach without any costing or assessment of its impact on the economy. At the same time, Prime Minister Scott Morrison is facing criticism over his government's inaction, including from the Greens and environmental groups annoyed the bushfires royal commission will be examining adaptation to a changing climate but not what needs to be done to mitigate it. The Senate is expected to debate a Greens bill to ban coal mining in Queensland's Galilee Basin - where Adani plans to start operations - and another that would introduce civil and criminal penalties for mining, drilling and land clearing that damages the environment. And the lower house will consider a bill from Greens leader Adam Bandt that would make polluters pay, and one from independent MP Andrew Wilkie related to the reporting of emissions. On the eve of a new sitting fortnight, a News Corp newspaper article claimed the government poured billions of dollars into infrastructure projects from its $4 billion Urban Congestion Fund in coalition-held seats before the election. Coming after two sports funding scandals, Opposition Leader Anthony Albanese described the latest revelation as "nuclear" rorting. The Nationals have continued to cause headaches for the prime minister in the weeks since their leadership ructions, with several among their ranks advocating for new coal-fired power. Would-be leader Barnaby Joyce will on Monday set the ball rolling on another of his pet causes by introducing legislation to overhaul the Senate by dividing the states into six regions with two senators per zone. Labor's Andrew Leigh will also have a bid at getting the ACT's new integrity commission powers to cover policing in the territory. Government business on the books for the week includes drought assistance, banning academic cheating services and cracking down on counterfeit wines. 
