{ By Harry Cole For The Mail On Sunday   Published:  01:42, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8033643/Boris-Johnson-clashes-Whitehalls-powerful-civil-servant.html }
Boris Johnson is at loggerheads with Whitehall's most powerful mandarin over a top-secret £5 billion spy satellite project. The Prime Minister announced his vision of a post-Brexit independent British space presence in his first speech on the steps of Downing Street last year. But Mr Johnson and his closest aide Dominic Cummings were furious when Sir Mark Sedwill branded the project 'unrealistic and unaffordable' and revealed his officials were working on a cheaper alternative. At a tense meeting in No 10, a 'visibly angry' Mr Johnson put his head in his hands and berated the head of the Civil Service for putting dampers on the highly classified project. When he was met with a slew of negative comments about the space programme that is months behind schedule, the PM snapped: 'Why am I only hearing about this now?' Sir Mark's response that he was 'going to tell you about it after this meeting' was met with short shrift by the angry Prime Minister. He said he had already announced the project and demanded that Sir Mark get it back on track. The UK currently relies on an American satellite system for navigational guidance of our drones, missiles, ships and other espionage projects. Britain was leading the way in an EU system called Galileo but was ousted from the project in a Brexit spat with Brussels. In one of his first acts in office, Mr Johnson gave a British alternative the green light. He said: 'Let's get going now on our own position navigation and timing satellite and earth observation systems – UK assets orbiting in space with all the long-term strategic and commercial benefits for this country.' But it is understood that officials led by Sir Mark want a cheaper system that would not be purely independent and sovereign. The row comes amid claims Mr Cummings is trying to wrestle control of space policies from the Business Department. In the Cabinet reshuffle, Business Secretary Andrea Leadsom and Space Minister Chris Skidmore were sacked. It is understood Mr Cummings blamed them for agreeing to give the European Space Agency a further £1.8 billion in funding last year – money he believed should have been spent on the new UK-only capabilities. Last year, Mr Skidmore said more than 50 companies were involved in the secret project. 'The UK Space Agency won't let me go into detail about the specific companies, but next year, around March time, there will be a £5 billion programme announced,' he added. 'We would want it fully delivered by 2030 but the first satellites would go up by 2025.' 
