business
{ By Harriet Dennys For The Mail On Sunday   Published:  23:46, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/news/article-8032785/Goodbye-Frankie-Bennys-quits-ailing-retail-parks.html }
Former bank chief Andy Hornby will this week speed up drastic cuts to The Restaurant Group's struggling casual dining brands – with Frankie & Benny's and Chiquito in the new boss's firing line. In his first major strategy update since joining in August last year, the one-time HBOS chief executive is expected to announce further disposals of restaurant sites that are underperforming in a tough period for the casual dining sector.  Many are in out-of-town retail parks that are struggling to attract visitors. Other options include converting them to Wagamama, the star performer for The Restaurant Group (TRG), or simply ending the leases as they come up for renewal. Hornby will also announce plans for the US, where Wagamama has five sites. Investors are expecting potential expansion after a strategic review of its business there. One analyst said of TR's British 'leisure' portfolio, which also includes Garfunkel's and Coast to Coast: 'It is the wrong product, at the wrong price, in the wrong place.'  TRG's three other divisions are pubs, airport outlets and Wagamama.  TRG shares are down 40 per cent since the start of 2018, closing at £1.29 on Friday. The group has already cut its leisure dining sites from 368 to 352 as its battles for customers in a saturated market. It has set targets to leave half the remaining sites when leases come up for renewal or have a break clause. A third of its leisure portfolio – primarily Frankie & Benny's sites – have been identified as 'structurally unattractive' and are earmarked for closure. This week's update from Hornby is expected to accelerate the process of slimming down its dining brands as he battles to return the group to profit. The company racked up a pre-tax loss of £88million for the first six months of 2019, compared with a £12million profit a year earlier, after taking a huge writedown on its leisure estate.  Analysts expect full-year 2019 profits before tax of £74.7million but after exceptional costs it will post an overall loss. Stock broker Peel Hunt said this year's trading would be 'tough' and the best way to unlock value would be by 'accelerating an orderly exit from the leisure estate'. Hornby joined TRG from gambling giant GVC, his first time leading a public company after leaving HBOS after the taxpayer-backed bailout of the financial crisis. At GVC – the owner of Ladbrokes Coral – Hornby was joint chief operating officer but did not hold a position on the board.  He could earn up to £3.9million for his first year at TRG. This month Hornby appointed his former colleague Mark Chambers, managing director of GVC's retail business, as head of TRG's leisure operation.  Frankie & Benny's managing director Ollie Humphries is leaving the business. Across all four divisions, TRG has more than 650 sites in the UK, including pubs under the Brunning & Price brand. It bought Wagamama from its private equity owner Duke Street Capital in late 2018 for £559million.  However, only 60 per cent of shareholders backed the takeover, due to anger at being forced to either participate in a deeply discounted rights issue or face steep losses on their investment. 
