business
{ By Ali Daher For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:59, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8033153/Wallabies-star-George-Gregan-splits-wife-Erica-22-years-marriage.html }
Retired Wallabies captain George Gregan and his long-time wife and business partner Erica have reportedly called it quits after 22 years of marriage. According to The Sunday Telegraph the couple split before Christmas, with the former Australian rugby union star also having moved out of their Beauty Point, Mosman home. Together they built a multi-million dollar restaurant empire, The Gregan Group,  which consists of 24 cafes, bars and restaurants, all of which now remains up in the air. It is understood that Erica's position as the company's managing director will remain.  The couple own multiple restaurants across Australia including various GG espresso cafes, George Bar & Bistro Kingsgate in Fortitude Valley, Queensland and Grab and Go Café on Castlereagh St, Sydney. George, 46, met Erica in Melbourne in 1994 after he celebrated a second Test win over Italy with the Wallabies, before moving in together in 1996. They married in 1998 in a private ceremony hosted on Fiji’s Turtle Island.  The couple also share three children together, son Max, 18, and daughters, Charlie, 17, and Jazz, 15. After Max was diagnosed with epilepsy in 2004, the couple set up the George Gregan Foundation in 2005 to raise funds for sick children. After building playgrounds in NSW, ACT and QLD hospitals, the foundation is slated to close down in 2021. Meanwhile in December, George made headlines was hit with several lawsuits claiming he 'muscled out' the founder of sports startup PTP fitness. PTP fitness founder Alexander Goldberg claimed George and former Waratahs' player Matthew Dixon had 'changed access' to their MYOB account, locking him out of financial records. The claim is now before the court.   It comes after a court last year found against Goldberg in an earlier matter after he questioned the company shareholders’ agreement.  
