business
{ By Kristy Johnson and Alisha Rouse For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  13:57, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8032119/Pip-Edwards-shuts-romance-rumours-Michael-Clarke.html }
Pip Edwards has denied romance rumours with Michael Clarke, after the cricketer was seen leaving her home in Sydney's Bondi on Thursday morning. The P.E Nation co-founder told The Sunday Telegraph's Confidential that she has been supporting her friend and business associate 'through a rough time'.  Michael, 38, announced his $40 million divorce with Kyly, also 38, on February 12 after seven years of marriage.    Pip told the publication that she has been friends with Michael for 12 years, and that they simply have a business association.    The 40-year-old, who shares a son with ex-partner Dan Single, went on to reveal that she's been supporting Michael in the wake of his high-profile split from wife Kyly. 'Michael and I over the past month have spent more personal time together. I have been supporting Michael through what has been a rough time with the public view on his divorce. 'As I have been through this before, I understand what a stressful situation this can be when you are in the media storm of a break-up and feel you have no privacy.'   The statement comes after Michael was spotted leaving Pip's Bondi home in Sydney from an underground car park early Thursday morning, days after announcing his divorce. The father-of-one left the luxury apartment block in his $54,000 BMW just before 9am, with Pip leaving moments later in her $73,000 black Mercedes.    Michael had parked his SUV in Pip's underground garage during the visit to her coastal home.    Rumours had circulated through Sydney's eastern suburbs about the pair's friendship, but both have said previously that they are not romantically involved.  Both Michael and Pip confirmed to Daily Mail Australia last week that the two have been close friends for 12 years and are now collaborating on work.  Pip also told Daily Mail Australia that the romance rumours were untrue: 'Absolutely unfounded and untrue. That's all I have to say. Thank you.'  Michael's personal assistant Sasha Armstrong also played down the romance rumours. 'Michael has known Pip for over a decade and is currently working with both Pip and Claire on a special project with P.E Nation,' she said.  It is understood there was no third party involved in Michael's shock split from his wife. They have been separated for five months, but only revealed their split in a surprise announcement on February 12.  The Clarkes, who were high-school sweethearts, have said the 'amicable' decision to separate was 'the best course' for their four-year-old daughter Kelsey Lee.  Michael and Kyly have reportedly already agreed terms on their divorce - as well as arrangements to co-parent their daughter - without going through the courts.  
