{ By Niomi Harris For Mailonline   Published:  12:54, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8032041/Lil-Kim-45-shows-smooth-complexion-Floyd-Mayweathers-star-studded-birthday-party.html }
She's no stranger to putting on a showstopping display at many a showbiz event. And it was business as usual for Lil Kim as she made a glamorous arrival at Floyd Mayweather's star-studded birthday party at the Boulevard 3 in Hollywood, California on Friday. The musician, 45, showcased a very smooth complexion as she slipped into a figure-hugging monochrome jumpsuit while arriving at the swanky bash. Lil Kim was effortlessly glam as she displayed her curves in the black one-piece which featured a high-neck white top half. The cut-out feature showcased a hint of the star's décolletage while a silver and black belt cinched her in at the waist. The Crush On You hitmaker boosted her petite frame with a pair of towering silver platform sandals, while carrying her essentials in a white and nude handbag.  Completing her look, Lil Kim coated her face in a heavy layer of glam make-up, while her raven tresses were worn poker straight down her back.   The New Yorker is always one to make a style statement and has been known over the years for her statement looks. In 1999, the music sensation took a risk by wearing a one-shouldered lilac number at the MTV Video Music Awards. The flesh flashing ensemble scooped below her bust and the star ensured to cover her modesty by wearing a purple nipple cover. She continued the look with a wig that perfectly colour matched her daring dress making sure all eyes were on her. Four years later at The 3rd Annual BET Awards, the beauty once again stole the spotlight in a green patterned bikini which she teamed with a flowing kaftan. In a 2005 interview with popular radio host Angie Martinez, Lil' Kim, born Kimberly Denise Jones, revealed that she went under the knife after an abusive boyfriend broke her nose - and insisted that she was unfazed about the speculation over her changing looks. She said: 'It don't bother because I'm beautiful. I love myself! There's certain things that I think I was obsessive with that I think I'll always have time to fix, or whatever. 'But the thing is, people think I did it because I had low self esteem but that wasn't the case. I think I did it because I was a little too vain, trying to be perfect. I'm a perfectionist... It teaches you a lesson, too. You've got to pull back from certain things.' Lil Kim was in good company at the bash as a host of A-listers stepped out to join boxer Floyd celebrate his upcoming 42nd birthday (his actual birthday is on the 24th February). Snoop Dogg cut a suave figure in a black satin three-piece suit, complete with black sunglasses and monochrome shoes.  Rapper Quavo donned a black leather jacket, while French Montana went all out in an orange shirt.  Upping the glam was American actress Porscha Coleman, who dared to bare in a plunging silver cut-out gown which featured an intricate lace pattern.  Not ones to be outdone, other ladies pulled out all the stops with Torrei Hart, Nikki and Floyd's daughter Iyanna 'Yaya' Mayweather looking fabulous in their ensembles.  Elsewhere, the couples also dressed to impress as Omar Bolden and Candice Bolden complimented each other in monochrome ensembles. While Reggie Bush and Lilit Avagyan dazzled in their stylish outfits. Last but not least, the birthday boy himself ensured all eyes were on him as he rocked an extravagant mirrored mosaic blazer which shimmered in the light.  The sports star teamed his eye-catching number with a black jumper and jeans, finishing of his look with tinted shades.  Floyd looked in good spirits as he led the pack into his party, which was no doubt a luxurious and fun-filled affair.  As expected, the bash was an elaborate one, as TMZ reported that there were strippers riding on planes emblazoned with the words 'Air Mayweather'.  However, surprisingly, guests had to dig deep in their pockets as there was only a cash bar and there was apparently no food. But there was still a large budget as there were reportedly $100 bills that were adorned with the boxer's face.  
