{ By Jemma Carr For Mailonline   Published:  12:25, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8032039/What-does-paragraph-Harry-Meghans-statement-really-mean.html }
The Duke and Duchess of Sussex released an extraordinary statement on their website after they were forced to drop their 'Sussex Royal' brand last night. In the sour-sounding statement Meghan and Harry claimed the Queen does not have 'jurisdiction' over the lucrative term 'royal' overseas.  They also appeared to complain that the palace is treating them differently to other family members.  Here, MailOnline decodes what each carefully-chosen phrase means. There is 'not any jurisdiction by The Monarchy or Cabinet Office over the use of the word "Royal" overseas':  Harry and Meghan make it perfectly clear that they could use the term 'Royal' as part of their branding overseas if they wanted to. However, following their transition this Spring, they will drop the term on request of the Queen. The Daily Mail first reported that the Queen had asked Harry and Meghan not to employ the 'Sussex Royal' name when they are no longer working royals. It is a significant blow for the couple, who have spent tens of thousands of pounds building the Sussex Royal-branded website and creating a hugely popular Instagram feed. In an unprecedented legal move, the queen has drafted in top lawyers in a bid to enforce the ban. A string of trademark applications, covering items from clothing and books to stationery and bandanas, were withdrawn. It comes after MailOnline yesterday revealed that Meghan has told friends there is nothing 'legally stopping' her and Harry from using their Sussex Royal name.  Meghan complained to her inner circle that using the name 'shouldn't even be an issue in the first place and it's not like they want to be in the business of selling T-shirts and pencils,' the insider said.  They added: 'Meghan said she's done with the drama and has no room in her life for naysayers, and the same goes for Harry.' The friend added: 'Meghan said the global projects they are working on speak for themselves and they chose that name to protect the royal name, not profit off of it.' But, the insider added: 'Meghan has told her inner circle that their success is inevitable with or without their current brand name. 'She said regardless of the name, Harry and Archie have royal blood and no one can take that away. And that as a family, they will always be considered royalty.' 'There is precedent for other titled members of the Royal Family to seek employment outside of the institution': Harry and Meghan imply that they are being treated differently to other members of the royal family who can 'seek employment outside of the institution'. They say the guidelines are different for them as a 12-month review period has been put in place. They do insist, however, that it is their 'preference' to 'continue to represent and support Her Majesty The Queen albeit in a more limited capacity, while not drawing on the Sovereign Grant'. 'The Duke and Duchess of Sussex will continue to require effective security to protect them and their son':   The couple also insisted that security 'to protect them and their son' is required amid controversy surrounding protection costs. Protection for Meghan and Harry is estimated to cost taxpayers in Canada and the UK between £3million and £6million a year, as staff work round the clock two weeks at a time.  The statement read: 'It is agreed that The Duke and Duchess of Sussex will continue to require effective security to protect them and their son.  'This is based on The Duke’s public profile by virtue of being born into The Royal Family, his military service, the Duchess’ own independent profile, and the shared threat and risk level documented specifically over the last few years. 'No further details can be shared as this is classified information for safety reasons.' The couple boldly insist that security is necessary, putting a swift and sudden stop to the naysayers. However, they refuse to provide details about what forms this security will take, claiming doing so would be a breach of 'safety'. By saying that no more details 'can' be shared, the couple imply that they want to give more information but are unable to. 'The Duke and Duchess of Sussex will become privately funded members of The Royal Family with permission to earn their own income and the ability to pursue their own private charitable interests': Remaining financially independent has been a key Megxit focal point.   The couple plan to relaunch their careers – potentially earning millions of pounds a year - in a bid to 'become financially independent'. This will allow them to give up funding from the Sovereign Grant – the money taxpayers give to the Queen every year – and launch themselves onto the international celebrity circuit. Earlier this year they said they had 'made the choice' to 'no longer receive funding' from the Sovereign Grant, adding: 'Their Royal Highnesses prefer to release this financial tie.' Harry and Meghan's first post-Megxit appearance earlier this month was at an event held by US banking giant JP Morgan in Miami - an organisation which has been embroiled in a succession of controversies. Harry is still 'sixth in line to the throne': The statement spells out the fact that Harry is still sixth in line to the throne. The line of the succession to the monarchy is: Prince of Wales followed by Prince William, then Prince George, Princess Charlotte, Prince Louis finally followed by Prince Harry. The statement reads: 'As the grandson of Her Majesty and second son of The Prince of Wales, Prince Harry, The Duke of Sussex remains sixth in line to the throne of The British Monarchy and the Order of Precedence is unchanged.' They will 'be allowed to maintain their patronages': The statement states that the couple will be allowed to keep their patronages even though they won't be allowed to carry out ‘official duties’ for the Queen. By using the word 'allowed' they put the onus on the Queen, who the couple make clear has given her express permission.  It comes after Meghan was given until Easter to prove her mettle as Royal Patron of the National Theatre, according to a top West End producer. She was gifted the honour last January by the Queen, who had been the National's patron for 45 years.   Nica Burns - who co-owns The Nimax Group, which comprises six London West End theatres including The Palace, the Apollo and the Vaudeville - has said that the Duchess should not hold the position indefinitely. Ms Burns said: 'I think we should give Meghan until Easter to say what she thinks is possible with her patronage.'  'We have to give her a chance, forget who she is and give her some space. 'If she is not going to be doing any work with the National, then she should step down. But as she is a role model, we would rather she didn't.' The Duke and Duchess's statement read: 'It was agreed that The Duke and Duchess will no longer be able to formally carry out "official duties" for The Queen or represent The Commonwealth, but they will, however, be allowed to maintain their patronages (including those that are classified as ‘royal’ patronages).' Harry 'will retain the rank of Major, and honorary ranks of Lieutenant Commander, and Squadron Leader'  The statement makes it clear that Harry will maintain military titles including: the rank of Major, and honorary ranks of Lieutenant Commander, and Squadron Leader.  It was earlier revealed that Harry is being stripped of a number of military roles including Captain General of the Royal Marines, the ceremonial head of the Corps. He will also lose Honorary Air Commandant of Royal Air Force Base Honington, and Honorary Commodore-in-Chief of Small Ships and Diving, Royal Naval Command. Harry will also be barred from wearing his military uniform after stepping back from Armed Forces appointments, although he can still wear his medals at engagements. The couple's statement read: 'In relation to the military, The Duke of Sussex will retain the rank of Major, and honorary ranks of Lieutenant Commander, and Squadron Leader.  'During this 12-month period of review, The Duke’s official military appointments will not be used as they are in the gift of the Sovereign. No new appointments will be made to fill these roles before the 12-month review of the new arrangements is completed.  'While per the agreement, The Duke will not perform any official duties associated with these roles, given his dedication to the military community and ten years of service he will of course continue his unwavering support to the military community in a non-official capacity.  'As founder of the Invictus Games, The Duke will proudly continue supporting the military community around the world through the Invictus Games Foundation and The Endeavour Fund.'   AS AGREED AND SET OUT IN JANUARY 2020:  ADDITIONAL DETAILS:       
