{ By Christine Rendon For Dailymail.com   Published:  06:12, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8031429/Tamera-Mowry-dazzles-sexy-smart-ensemble-heads-51st-NAACP-Image-Awards-Dinner.html }
The hosts of The Real put on an ultra stylish display at the 51st NAACP Image Awards Dinner on Friday night.  Tamera Mowry, 41, Amanda Seales, 38, Adrienne Houghton, 36, and Jeannie Mai, 41, worked their magic on the red carpet as they headed to the non-televised event in Hollywood. The former Sister, Sister actress put a sexy twist onto business chic in a plunging black lace top with matching suit. She dazzled the outfit up with silver choker necklaces and a pair of dangling earrings. Raven tresses were worn down in glossy, straight style that cascaded behind her shoulders.  Adrienne flashed some cleavage in a sexy halter jumpsuit with low-cut keyhole.   Amanda, meanwhile, stood out in a vibrant black-and-white dress with a low-cut yellow neckline and flirty skirt.  She rocked a coordinating pair of heels in addition to silver hoop earrings and red lipstick.  Jeannie exuded elegance in a romantic black-and-white floral gown with dramatic train and low-cut neckline. The TV star swept her tresses up into a chic bun with several loose strands of hair cascading beside her face.  The Real was one of several big names nominated at this year's NAACP Image Awards.  A multicultural awards show from an African American perspective, the NAACP Image Awards honors the accomplishments of people of color in film, television, music and literature.  The show was up for Outstanding Talk Series, but lost to Red Table Talk.    The NAACP Image Awards will air live on BET February 22 8/7c, but awards were already presented on Friday.   Nominees for Entertainer of the Year are Angela Basset, Billy Porter, Lizzo, Regina King and Tyler Perry.  Outstanding Motion Picture nominees are Dolemite is My Name, Harriet, Just Mercy, Queen & Slim, and Us.   Categories also include Outstanding Actor in a Motion Picture, Outstanding Actress in a Motion Picture, and Outstanding Comedy Series.  A host of stars came in style for the dinner, which leads up to the awards show on Saturday night. Francia Raisa dazzled in a satiny gold gown that clung to her physique.  Justina Machado looked like a ray of sunshine in a canary yellow dress with head full of ringlets.  Niecy Nash wowed in a gorgeous dress with elaborate sleeves and a silver clutch.    
