business
{ By James Gordon For Dailymail.com    Published:  05:22, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8031385/Nightclub-manager-arrested-Valentines-Day-Kama-Sutra-party-revelers-sex-dancefloor.html }
The manager of a Georgia nightclub has been arrested and fired after the venue allegedly held a party where revelers were encouraged to perform sex acts on a bed that had been placed in the middle of the dancefloor. The Chiquititas Lounge in Norcross, near Atlanta, held the x-rated event on Valentine's Day.   Gwinnett County police are conducting an investigation into the alleged 'inappropriate activity' inside of the venue. Cops said that 'extremely graphic' videos of the night had been circulating on social media. The local police spoke to Channel 2 and have detailed how the manager of the club set up a bed in the center of the dancefloor before inviting customers to perform sex acts on it.  According to the police report, Lizette Loechle admitted she ran a 'Kama Sutra Valentine's Day party and contest'  The stunt was part of a Valentine's Day night event hosted by the lounge, which offered a cash prize of $500, according to the club's Facebook page with the words 'Evening of Love' written in Spanish.  The club had been decorated with Valentine's decorations which included the bed. It led to couples taking off their clothes during the contest and the manager admitted that at one point she also participated. Loechle was cited for promoting prohibited conduct and providing live entertainment that featured nude acts and was booked into the Gwinnett County Adult Detention Center.  'The business brought in women into the business,' Gwinnett County police Cpl. Collin Flynn said. 'At some point during the night, they did bring this bed in and members, patrons of the business, were the ones who actually took their clothes off and simulated sex acts with these females.'  'In the video, you can see a number of people in a state of undress, simulating sexual acts. The people were surrounded by other patrons who were filming this incident and encouraging the people to participate,' Flynn said.  'I was shocked when I saw the video,' he continued. 'It's not something that you would ever expect to see inside a legitimate business.'  The current general manager of Chiquititas Lounge, Mike Kelly released a statement:  'We immediately notified authorities. We have terminated the manager on duty at the time, and we are fully prepared to reprimand any additional employees in connection with this unfortunate incident.' Bar patrons also appeared to encourage the men and women as they undressed in the middle of the nightclub and performed sex acts on the bed. Several guests recorded the sex acts on their cellphones before uploading the videos to social media,  Investigators are asking people with any further video footage to get in touch.    
