{ By Cassie Carpenter For Dailymail.com   Published:  04:43, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8031383/Tamra-Judge-sells-six-bedroom-Coto-Caza-home-2-295M-quitting-RHOC.html }
A month after quitting her gig on The Real Housewives of Orange County, Tamra Judge is considering returning to real estate after making a $200K profit off the sale of her $2.095M home in Coto De Caza. Realtor Shelley Black confirmed on Thursday that she sold the six-bedroom, 4.5-bathroom property in January, which the 52-year-old grandmother-of-one originally bought back in 2018. 'Everybody's going to be like, "Oh my god she can't afford her house!"' Tamra laughed on Jeff Lewis' SiriusXM Radio show Thursday.   'Our house wasn't even on the market [before Shelley found a buyer]...We're going to start [house] flipping. I love it. I really miss real estate.' Judge and her third husband Eddie Judge also run CBD business Vena Wellness as well as a gym in Rancho Santa Margarita called CUT Fitness. There are 'virtually no neighbors' around the Bravo-lebrity's 9,989-square-foot private lot surrounded by oak trees. Tamra's lush backyard boasts a swimming pool, spa area, and patio with a BBQ and a grassy lawn.   Other amenities include a Housewife-worthy custom closet, wine refrigerator, open-floor plan, oversized windows, Restoration Hardware lighting/fixtures, dark hardwood flooring, and Carrara marble countertops. Last month, Judge turned down Bravo's 'humiliating' offer to return to the 15th season at a $200K 'friend' rate for just three appearances - rather than her usual $900K per season as a full Housewife. This, 12 years after the Glendale-born socialite starred in the reality show, which she originally joined in season three in 2007.  Tamra was also influenced to step away from RHOC after she discovered her ex-husband #2 Simon Barney was diagnosed with stage 3 throat cancer in November. 'It made me reevaluate my life,' Judge (born Waddle) told People. 'The reality of it is, after Eddie's heart condition and now Simon with cancer, it's just very hard for me to want to go on a show where people are screaming and yelling and arguing about things that don't even matter. They've taught me that life is precious, and you don't get that time back.' The Botox-loving blonde and the 52-year-old businessman had three children - Sidney, 21; Spencer, 19; and Sophia, 14 - over their 13-year marriage, which ended in 2011. Tamra also has a 34-year-old son Ryan with ex-husband #1 Darren Vieth. 
