business
{ By Kevin Kayhart For Dailymail.com   Published:  02:19, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8031153/Tim-McGraw-announces-return-Big-Machine-Records-Country-Radio-Seminar-Nashville.html }
Tim McGraw has signed-on to return to Big Machine Records, where the country music star previously had a successful run of three hit albums during his first stint with the company beginning in 2012.   'I am so proud to welcome Tim McGraw back home to Big Machine Records,' CEO/president and founder Scott Borchetta told Billboard on Friday. 'We can't wait to jump back into the mix with Tim and his great team and get his incredible new music out to the world.' The big news of his switch back to Big Machine was made during a surprise appearance at a Country Radio Seminar luncheon hosted by the label group on Friday in Nashville, Tennessee, as reported by Variety. 'Uh, Tim, I missed you!' a smiling Borchetta announced as McGraw came from behind a curtain, which the Grammy winner quickly shot back, 'I messed you too, obviously.' McGraw, 52, got a bit sentimental when describing his relationship with Borchetta. 'I mean, Scott and I go back a long way. We go back 25 years in this business,' he explained.  'His dad signed me to Curb Records a long time ago, so I have a special place in my heart for the Borchetta family. So it's good to be back with Scott. I know we've got a lot of work to do, and we can do that work.' The record label recently made headlines after being acquired by a media holding company led by Scooter Braun. Taylor Swift publicly slammed the purchase, citing her long-running feud with Braun and the fact the acquisition meant the music manager would own the masters for her first six records.    McGraw released 11 albums for Curb Records beginning with his self-titled record in 1993 through until 2012's Emotional Traffic.  His first run with Big Machine resulted in thee successful albums: Two Lanes Of Freedom (2013), Sundown Heaven Town (2014), which both hit number one on Billboard's Top Album chart, and Damn Country Music (2015), that peaked at number three. By 2017, McGraw and wife Faith Hill inked a deal with Sony Music Nashville's parent company, Sony Music Entertainment. It only spawned a duets album, The Rest Of Our Life, which debuted at number one of Billboard's Top Country Albums chart. The Louisiana native never released a solo album during his time on Sony, with the exception of two singles: Neon Church and Thought About You. At this point it's unclear whether those two new songs will be on his first album back with Big Machine. Just last month, McGraw announced his upcoming 30 date trek, Here On Earth Tour, kicks off July 10.  
