{ By Cindy Tran for Daily Mail Australia    Published:  12:35, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8040497/Entrepreneur-Eli-Dangerfield-built-multi-million-dollar-business-Elmore-Lewis-selling-watches.html }
A young entrepreneur has revealed how he went from being relentlessly bullied in school for having big business dreams to building a multi-million dollar watch empire. Eli Dangerfield, from Adelaide, said he was just an average schoolboy from an ordinary middle class home but growing up, he found himself struggling to 'fit in'. At the age of 17, the teenager launched his own eCommerce business selling watches online while he was still at school after his timepiece obsession led him to finding a niche in the market. Fast forward, the now 21-year-old self-made millionaire has been living a life of luxury - as his company now makes up to $320,000 in revenue per month. 1. Find a winning product to sell based on what's already selling online 2. Source an overseas supplier to get it cheaper at cost price 3. Create a simple online store website (only takes a few hours of work when you understand what you're doing) 4. Run simple targeted ads on social media to people likely passionate about the product 5. People come to your website and buy from you 6. You lock in profits first with no risk, because the supplier ships each product to your customer after you make the sale 7. Supplier sends product to your customer after you make your profit 8. Rinse and repeat multiple times every day, make good money, and scale it up Eli said his 'wild' business idea all started when he was just a 14-year-old boy who was 'always the outsider' growing up. He explained how he didn't want what everyone else planned on having because he refused to settle for anything 'normal'. 'I knew since the age of 14 that I was different. I didn't want to work a nine to five job I disliked for the rest of my life. I wanted to be rich and successful, and live the laptop lifestyle that I saw others living,' Eli told Daily Mail Australia. 'I had no idea at the time how I was going to build my own business though. No one in my family had ever managed or run a business. I had no role models. No mentors. No path to follow. I just knew I wasn't going to give up until I achieved my goals.'  His father worked as a carpenter while his mother who was a schoolteacher suffered a horrific car accident when he was just four years old, still in daycare. Eli said his mother nearly died from her injuries but she miraculously survived. However, she was unable to work again. 'This placed a lot of pressure on our family finances while growing up. There was a lot of stress around money in my family... They had to sacrifice a lot for us kids to just get by,' Eli said. And so he was determined to find the business success he craved. Eli began reading and studying stories of successful people making money online. The young boy always loved watches - and so he decided selling them was what his brand was going to be. From there, he researched the top competitors that were making millions, tens of millions, and hundreds of millions of dollars a year with online shopping. 'That made me think to myself, "Well, if I could just be one per cent as good as them, that's going to totally change my life". And it's true,' he recalled. 'If you find a business in a particular niche doing like $100,000,000 a year in sales, all you have to do is be 99 per cent dumber than them, and you're basically a millionaire. Just being one per cent as smart as someone else can change your life.' Eli barely finished school but he refused to study at university. 'Why would I want to spend the next four years of my life gaining a piece of paper learning pretty much just theory... when I could spend it actually making money and building something for myself,' he said. The young man said he believed he could make more money before his classmates graduated than any of them were ever going to make in their regular jobs. While jugging high school, Eli launched his eCommerce business called Elmore Lewis selling simple watches online. Despite the success, he experienced a series of setbacks. 'I had tons of these. But you learn by making mistakes and I figured out what was going wrong, then worked out how to do things the right way,' he said. Since selling thousands of watches worldwide, his business now has a multi-million dollar income per year. 'My biggest day in business since starting was making $24,348 online. My biggest month to date in online business was making over $320,000 in revenue.' he said. As his business became more apparent over the course of two years, Eli started getting questions on how he was achieving amazing results at such a young age. He began mentoring people who wanted to start making money online using only their laptops. This sparked his new online business after he saw an opening in the market for teaching people how to be a successful online entrepreneur. The young man started his own step-by-step training program so young people can follow in his footsteps. 'I wanted to bring the elevator back down to help the people who need it most get started, because I wish that I had access to this invaluable information and these powerful strategies when I started,' he said. 'If I knew what I knew now, from day one, I'd have made millions more.' He has since helped hundreds of people start and grow their own online businesses from the comfort of their homes, even without having any experience. One of his most successful 'students' is former Love Island star Teddy Briggs, 26, who went from drowning in thousands of dollars of credit card debt to making more than $76,000 last month. 'All within his first year, from scratch, following the advice and training that I showed him,' Eli said.  'Teddy just bought a new Mercedes Benz C63s AMG sports car from profits made from eCommerce since becoming a student.' 
