business
{ By Jackson Barron For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  11:47, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8041063/Shocking-photograph-shows-mountain-clothes-dumped-ground-outside-charity-donation-bins.html }
A shocking photograph has emerged of a mountain of second-hand clothes dumped outside charity donation bins because people are too lazy to put them inside. Plastic bags and cardboard boxes are littered in front of the five donation bins in Sydney's inner west, along with loose items of clothing and footwear. 'I'm not sure how it got this bad however I have reported it to the Smith Family for urgent pick up!' a post on a local Facebook page read. Commenters reacted with outrage, slamming lazy donors as 'appalling' for cluttering the footpath.  'That is absolutely disgraceful and I'm embarrassed our community would dump clothing like that,' one comment reads. 'It's pretty simple. If the bin is full, pit your donations back in the boot of your car, call to let the charity bin provider know, and come back another day.' 'This is not a "charitable donation" ... it's fly tipping,' another post reads. 'It's literally like a truck dumped it all there,' another comment says. 'Because people are pigs. They've used this as a dumping ground. So now it's a problem fort someone else to solve,' another post reads.  As of January 2020, The Smith Family no longer accepts clothing donations and encourage donors to give clothing to other charities such as the Salvation Army, the St Vincent de Paul Society and the Australian Red Cross. A spokesperson from The Smith Family told Daily Mail Australia that the company were transitioning out of the clothing recycling business and squarely focusing on providing educational support for Australian children in need.  'There are 1.2million Australian children living in poverty and our work to support these children is needed more than ever,' the spokesperson said. 'We regret the build up of items at the Rozelle bins and will arrange for collection as soon as possible.' 
