{ By Connie Rusk For Mailonline   Published:  12:06, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8041723/AJ-Pritchards-girlfriend-Abbie-Quinnen-shows-toned-abs-flexibility.html }
They are busy rehearsing for the AJ live tour.  And AJ Pritchard, 25, and his girlfriend Abbie Quinnen put on their dancing shoes as they practiced their action-packed routines at Dance Attic Studios in London on Monday. West End star Abbie, 23, showed off her toned abs in a black Gym Shark crop top and matching leggings as they joined Curtis, 24.    Abbie showcased her extreme flexibility as AJ threw her around the dancefloor.  After doing a backbend, Abbie went into a standing split, while Strictly star AJ showed off his prestigious skill and strength by lifting her up off of her feet.  While Abbie was clad in all-black, AJ cut a brighter figure in a salmon pink Nike T-shirt and navy joggers.   The Strictly star was full of compliments for his partner when he gave an exclusive interview to the MailOnline. AJ said: 'It's crazy as it's our one year anniversary coming up. We get on so well because we both work just as hard as each other.  'She's actually annoying because she can literally do everything.' The star continued: 'Even when I was on Strictly last, she helped with the routines I had to choreograph for me and Saffron [Barker].'  The pair have been throwing themselves into rehearsals for AJ's upcoming tour, which will also star his younger brother Curtis.    AJ told MailOnline: 'Curtis will be involved. He'll be sweating his a*s off. I'm making him dance just as much as me. 'People always fall in love with his personality and the audience will see our cheeky side, once we have the mics in our hands.' he said. And the pair certainly put on an energetic display during Monday's rehearsals.  Curtis and AJ threw their legs around before joining a slew of backing dancers for the show's big number.  During the routine, the pair wound white rope around themselves while creating strong lines.  The trio made the dance look effortlessly as AJ lifted up Abbie, who did the splits in the air.  AJ told MailOnline earlier this year that he'll make sure to give Curtis' fans what they want by getting him to recreate the lap dance he performed while he was on the 2019 season of Love Island for his now-girlfriend Maura Higgins.  AJ admitted that including Curtis - also a pro dancer - in his 2020 show will bring together 'two audiences' in the form of Love Island and Strictly fans, and a 'new dynamic' to things.  AJ is producing the show himself this time, giving him more control than he had in 2019. He said of the show: 'The great thing about this is it’s me. It's madness. It's a bit of what I do on Strictly and a bit of me as a kid – it's all I have wanted to do. 'And no-one has seen Curtis do his dancing to the masses so this is a very family-oriented show. It'll be like the dance shows we'd put on in our house when we were 14. It's like that but 2.0. 'I’m deciding the music, the video wall, the dancers, the whole shebang. The last tour wasn’t produced by me but this time I want G flames, streamers, more dancers.'  AJ is enjoying the freedom, explaining: 'Sometimes I haven’t been able to do stuff I want on Strictly, so this is like taking the best parts of what I do there and adding more to it.' AJ even believes he's 'overdone' it - but that bigger is better. 'I've overdone it - but that's so we can create the best show. I feel like I am taking a million business calls at the same time - this is why I can’t do the Strictly pro tour later in the year, because I won't have the time to rest and recover. 'I have to put all my time into this show. Otherwise it would affect me mentally. I'd implode or explode!'    
