{ By Camilla Canocchi for Thisismoney.co.uk   Published:  11:40, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8041877/Hotel-Chocolat-hails-success-new-products-store-openings-sales-jump.html }
Premium chocolatier Hotel Chocolat once again bucked the wider decline on the High Street with double-digit sales growth and rising profits as it continued to open stores at home and abroad.  The upmarket chocolate retailer said new openings and the success of new products like a hot chocolate making machine helped sales soar 14 per cent to £91.7million in the last half of 2019. Pre-tax profits also rose 7 per cent to £14.9million. The results sent shares in the company rising 9 per cent in morning trading, to then closed 5 per cent higher at 405p on Tuesday.  Shares in the retailer jumped 8 per cent to 415p following the news.  'Double-digit sales and earnings per share growth suggest the company's investment in bringing out new products and the enduring strength of its brands is being met with a healthy appetite by consumers,' said Russ Mould at AJ Bell.  Hotel Chocolat boss and co-founder Angus Thirlwell said the company's expansion into the US and Japan was still in the early stages but response from consumers was 'encouraging'.   'Sales are growing, and we believe we have a deliverable plan to achieve attractive returns,' Thirlwell added.   The retailer opened two new stores in the US and three in Japan, and said it saw strong Valentine's Day sales in the two growing markets. In the UK, it opened nine new store during the half year, taking its total portfolio in its home market to 125 sites.  Hotel Chocolat said innovation helped boost sales, for example thanks to rising demand for its new 'Velvetiser' hot chocolate machine. It was also boosted by significant growth in its direct-to-consumer business, as it saw membership of its VIP service increase by 120 per cent to 1.1million active members.  Zoe Mills, a retail analyst at GlobalData, noted how Hotel Chocolat saw strong growth not only over the Christmas period, but also over the summer months.   She said this demonstrated that the chocolatier has established itself 'not only as a gifting retailer but also an all-year round affordable luxury treat for consumers'.  Thirlwell said: 'This was another strong period for Hotel Chocolat. We are now making good progress with investments and upgrades in our supply chain which will fully address these inefficiencies and increase our international and multi-channel supply capability, ensuring we continue to deliver profitable growth.'  
