business
{ By Chris Dyer For Dailymail.com   Published:  11:14, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8041873/How-Harvey-Weinsteins-ex-wife-Georgina-Chapman-moved-leaving-disgraced-movie-mogul.html }
When sexual misconduct allegations against Harvey Weinstein first emerged, his wife of a decade was swift to leave him. Not only had Georgina Chapman been betrayed by her husband, but his behavior also threatened the survival of her business, the fashion brand Marchesa. Chapman, the British-born designer, filed for divorce in 2017 citing his 'unforgivable actions' for the reason for their break-up. She then set about rebuilding her life, and securing her company. The 43-year-old has kept a relatively low-profile during Weinstein's rape and sexual assault trial in New York, that concluded with guilty verdicts of sexual assault and rape, but not guilty on predatory sexual assault. And as the verdicts were declared at New York City Supreme Court on Monday, Chapman was not present. Chapman is now said to be 'smitten' in a new relationship with Oscar-winning actor Adrien Brody, two years after she divorced Weinstein. Brody and Chapman, who initially met through Weinstein, were introduced 'properly' at a swimwear launch in Puerto Rico, where they reportedly 'bonded over cocktails'.  Brody, who was formerly a friend of Weinstein, has appeared in two productions made by the producer's company, Miramax. In 1994 he starred in Jail Breakers and in 2005 the Oscar-winning actor featured in Hollywoodland alongside Ben Affleck and Bob Hoskins. As accusations against Weinstein began piling up, revelations that the mogul once bullied stars into wearing his wife's designs also emerged. The Daily Beast claimed to have found a series of connections between Marchesa and a company linked to Weinstein listed as 'doing business as' Marchesa.  Weinstein went to his then-wife's Marchesa fashion show after the New York Times published their sexual misconduct expose in 2017.  It was feared the brand, which had dominated the red carpet for years, may have suffered irreparable damage to its reputation as Hollywood stars distanced themselves from the label. At the 2018 Golden Globes Chapman's high-end brand failed to make an appearance with not one single star choosing to wear one of her designs. The Globes the previous year, Marchesa dressed the likes of Chrissy Teigen and Heidi Klum and in 2016, Zendaya, Viola Davis and Lily James.    In January 2018, Chapman canceled a runway show for Marchesa's collection, which fueled rumors the brand sh co-founded with Keren Craig was in trouble.  Last June Craig left the luxury fashion label to pursue new 'creative opportunities'.  Marchesa has regularly been worn on the red carpet by A-listers such as Jennifer Lopez, Sandra Bullock, Scarlett Johansson, Kate Hudson, Priyanka Chopra Jonas, Blake Lively and the Duchess of Cambridge.  But nearly three years since the scandal first rocked Hollywood, stars have begun to return to the clothing line.  Many celebrities have offered support to Chapman in the wake of her ex-husband's court case, with Johansson picking a Marchesa gown to wear to the Met Gala ball in 2018. She said at the time defending her decision: 'I wore Marchesa because their clothes make women feel confident and beautiful and it is my pleasure to support a brand created by two incredibly talented and important female designers.' Vanessa Hudgens followed Johansson's lead and wore a Marchesa gown to the premiere of her film Dog Days in August of that year. Chopra also rallied behind her friend, saying it was unfair to punish Chapman over something her husband was alleged to have done. She told WWD in 2018: 'Georgina's a friend of mine, and it's not her fault. I don't think it's right to take it out on a self-made woman what somebody in her life did.  'That's the wrong attitude. I've known her for years, and that was a beautiful gown and deserved to be worn by a bride-to-be. And it made me feel like a princess. It was the right choice. Women supporting women: that's what we're all about.' At the Met Gala last year Chapman made her first red carpet appearance since the Weinstein scandal. At the event actress Constance Wu wore a silver Marchesa gown.  Appearing on The Late Show in May 2018, the Vogue editor-in-chief Anna Wintour told Stephen Colbert: 'Georgina is a brilliant designer, and I don't think that she should be blamed for her husband's behavior.'  Chapman married Weinstein in 2007 and they have two young children, India, nine, and Dashiell, six.  The British designer announced their split in 2017, saying: 'My heart breaks for all the women who have suffered tremendous pain because of these unforgivable actions.' Following the break-up, she took their children from their Los Angeles home and sold the property.  Weinstein will reportedly pay Chapman a divorce agreement worth roughly $15million to $20million. The pair began dating in 2004 and married in Connecticut in December 2007, before she filed for divorce following allegations by at least 80 women against the producer for sexual misconduct, harassment, and sexual assault.  When asked by Vogue in 2018 if she was ever suspicious about her husband's behavior, she replied: 'Absolutely not, never.' Chapman told Vogue how she felt 'naive' when the allegations first broke.  She added: 'There was a part of me that was terribly naive - clearly, so naive. I have moments of rage, I have moments of confusion, I have moments of disbelief.'  The London-born clothing designer went on to describe how 'caring for my young children is my first priority'. She said: 'And I have moments when I just cry for my children. What are their lives going to be? What are people going to say to them? It's like, they love their dad. They love him. I just can't bear it for them.'   Weinstein was convicted on Monday by a New York jury of sexually assaulting former production assistant Mimi Haleyi in his apartment in 2006 and raping aspiring actress Jessica Mann in a hotel room in 2013.  He was acquitted of the two most serious counts of predatory sexual assault, which each carried a potential life sentence. He was also found not guilty of first degree rape in relation to Mann.   Weinstein, who arrived at court using a walker for much of the trial, now faces a 29-year prison sentence. He was due to be sent immediately to Rikers Island prison following the jury's verdict but was rushed to hospital with chest pains and heart palpitations.  At the start of the case in January, Weinstein's legal team objected to which jurors were chosen and what evidence the jury was allowed to hear. He also faces a trial in Los Angeles later this year on similar allegations.  In total, Weinstein was charged with five counts including first and third degree rape for Mann and a criminal sexual act for Haleyi's forcibly oral sex allegation. He was also charged with predatory sexual assault for both women. The predatory sexual assault charge, which is the most serious, incorporated Sopranos actress Anabella Sciorra's allegation that she was raped by Weinstein in the mid-1990s.  Sciorra's allegation was too old to be charged on its own because of the statute of limitations, but jurors had to consider it as the basis of the two counts of predatory sexual assault.  To convict Weinstein of that charge, jurors had to agree on two things: That Weinstein raped Sciorra and that he committed one of the other charged offenses related to Mann or Haleyi. Weinstein appeared stunned in the immediate aftermath of the verdict and did not move when approached by court officers. He was then handcuffed before being led out of the courtroom via a side door without the use of the walker he relied on for much for much of the trial. Weinstein was taken away from the courthouse by an ambulance with its emergency lights and sirens on. Outside court, Weinstein's lawyer Donna Rotunno said he took the verdict 'like a man' and that they were 'absolutely appealing' the conviction. Weinstein is expected to be transferred to the prison once he is released from hospital. It is not yet clear when that will be. Harvey Weinstein victim Mimi Haleyi says she was 'relieved' the jury believed her at 'terrifying' rape trial and convicted him of sex assault as lawyer Gloria Allred urges women to come forward ahead L.A. case By JENNIFER SMITH FOR DAILYMAIL.COM One of the women Harvey Weinstein was found guilty of sexually assaulting at his historic rape trial on Monday has said she is 'relieved' the jury believed her. Mimi Haleyi courageously testified at Weinstein's trial about how he forcibly performed oral sex on her in 2006. The jury convicted him of criminal sexual act in the first degree for it. It carries a potential sentence of up to 25 years behind bars. On Tuesday, as Weinsten dodged jail in a hospital bed after spending the night there for 'chest pains' and 'heart palpitations', Mimi appeared on Good Morning America and CBS This Morning.  'There was a huge sense of relief that the jury believed me and I was heard. I was just grateful that they got it. 'It was terrifying. Terrifying. But after a lot of thought i just felt it was the right thing to do and something I wanted to follow through with so that's why I did it,' she said of her decision to speak at the trial. She added that she thinks the entire trial and the verdict gives her 'hope'. 'I just feel like we're being educated about the reality of sexual assault and sexual assault victims. A lot know their attacker and they have some sort of relation to that person and that brings with it a whole layer of emotional confusion that you need to process through. 'That's what we need to realize,' she said. Later, on CBS This Morning, she revealed she did not know which way the verdict would go. 'I mean, I am still processing I think, but [it's] just a relief.  'I wasn't sure what was going to be happen to be honest.  'The statistics say most rapists walk, so I didn't know which way it would go.  'I'm just very relieved and grateful and happy that it feels like we're making progress,' she said. She was joined by her lawyer, Gloria Allred, who commended her for her bravery.  'Mimi had to face very intense cross-examination on the stand.  'Hours and hours of cross-examination.  'I want to say how proud I am of her and of Lauren Marie Young, who was one of the Molineux witnesses who also testified, and Annabella Sciorra who is really a role model in courage and very inspiring.  'She did what she did... she testified, she made many sacrifices because it was in the interest of justice to do so,' she said.  The jury was not asked to charge on Annabella's story - that Weinstein raped her in the 1990s.  Instead, she had been called on to testify about it to demonstrate a pattern of predatory behavior to convict on a more serious charge, predatory sexual assault, which can carry a life sentence.  The jury acquitted Weinstein on two counts of predatory sexual assault but Allred said it was not a 'reflection' on Annabella or her story.  'It's a very high burden of proof. She told her truth. She refused to be intimidated and she was very authentic. Many people said she was an exceptional witness.  'This is about the empowerment of women. Women refusing to stand silent when they have been the victims of violence.  'Because of Mimi's courage, he may never come out of prison,' she said.  Rowena Chu, another Weinstein accuser who has spoken in the past about him allegedly assaulting her but whose claims have not been taken to court, told Today that she was 'overwhelmed' by the verdict and that she felt 'incredibly sad' for the women he has abused.  There are now 90 women who have accused him of misconduct.  Monday's verdict represents only two of them.  Mimi said she intends to give a victim impact statement at his sentencing on March 11 but that she has not decided what she wants to say to him.  In the meantime, Gloria is urging any women who believe they are victims of Weinstein to come forward in order to testify at his L.A. trial.  'It's not over until it's over. And it's not over yet,' she said.  Weinstein's attorney said on Monday that he took the verdict 'like a man' and that he would continue to fight it. They immediately filed an appeal.  Within a few hours, he had been taken to a hospital in the city - instead of Rikers Island - and his other attorney revealed he'd cried out: 'I'm innocent! I'm innocent! How can this happen in America?'   He will return to court on March 11 for his New York sentencing.  Now, attention is turning to the Los Angeles trial which may have a wider scope of women. 
