{ By Jack Newman For Mailonline   Published:  11:07, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8041737/George-Clooney-lining-sensational-bid-Malaga-American-consortium.html }
George Clooney is part of a consortium lining up a sensational bid to save Malaga from their financial disarray, with plans to film a 24-hour fly-on-the-wall documentary at the club, according to reports. The Hollywood star is said to be part of a group of American investors hoping to turn around the fortunes of the Andalusian side languishing in Spain's Segunda Division. Malaga were Champions League quarter-finalists as recently as 2013 and their club president Sheikh Abdullah Al-Thani has been suspended over accusations of improper management. But the Qatari businessman is still demanding £86million for the sale of the club, according to Canal Malaga, as quoted by Spanish news outlet AS. But the US investors hope a deal can be agreed for considerably less than the Sheikh's asking price, the report says. They then hope to profit from the popular Costa del Sol port city by filming a documentary at the club with plans to turn it into a 'European Hollywood'. There are even sensational suggestions the show could be a 24-hour Truman Show-style documentary.  Small Shareholders Association president Antonio Aguilera said: 'There is a powerful production company here in Malaga, they want to turn Malaga into the "European Hollywood" and they are filming series here on the south coast for Amazon and are already negotiating with the club. 'A fortnight ago, he was asking 100million euros for Malaga. What they are prepared to offer is much more than the amount he paid for the club (36million euros) and talks are ongoing.  'On Friday, they called the Americans to say they were willing to negotiate.' Clooney, 58, has a number of business ventures outside of acting, co-founding a tequila company which later sold for $1billion, and is an ambassador for Nespresso coffee. Since Malaga's Champions League run in 2013, the club has been sliding into ruin with a number of penalties for their financial mismanagement. They were banned by UEFA for its debts which meant the club could not feature in the 2013-14 Europa League. This led to a number of its stars, including Isco, Joaquin and Jeremy Toulalan being sold, as well as Manuel Pellegrini leaving as manager. Their decline continued and they were finally relegated after 10 consecutive seasons in La Liga. There are now suggestions Malaga could be forcibly relegated if they cannot fulfil certain financial commitments this season. If the US consortium succeed in their buyout, they will have to pay an additional £5million bond in place on Al-Thani.  
