business
{ By Becky Freeth   Published:  10:39, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7977845/The-story-two-brothers-money-passion-one-known-website.html }
Every year in the UK, we throw away £140 million pounds’ worth of fast-fashion*. That’s a shocking 350,000 tonnes of clothes that could be heading for landfill after only a few turns out of the closet. Although our clothes don’t always go to waste. Sometimes our castoffs get donated to charity or recycled for the materials. Meanwhile, the entrepreneurial spirits among us might even sell our stuff second-hand on eBay, just like Birmingham brothers Sean, 29, and Liam Sheahan, 24, who created a six-figure business out of turning one person’s trends into another one’s treasure. In the last 12 months alone, shoppers in the UK have spent a whopping £187million on pre-owned clothes on eBay, with searches for ‘sustainable’ fashion soaring 600 per cent since 2016. It was four years ago that Liam and Sean established their own eBay storefront for second-hand designer clothes, called Sheanies Vintage, shortly after a family tragedy motivated them to launch the small business they’d always talked about. ‘It all started with one box of second-hand clothes,’ says Sheanies co-founder Liam, who was 19 when he put just £100 into the business back in January 2016, and now watches it brings in over £100,000 in annual sales. ‘I was newly-qualified as a civil engineer, backpacking across Europe while I considered what to do next, and Sean had just left his retail job to join me abroad, when our dad sadly passed away.’ Sean adds: ‘It set us on a very different path and made us really re-evaluate things. We didn’t want to waste any more time in jobs we didn’t like and we definitely didn’t want to be away from family, so we moved back home with our mum, jobless and unhappy, knowing that we wanted to do something more meaningful.’ That’s when fashion fan Liam suggested the idea of a thrift store on eBay, the UK’s biggest selling platform, where buyers could track down specific styles of pre-owned streetwear, workwear and designer staples that the boys had purchased wholesale, then prepared or repaired for resale. Sean says: ‘Liam had an awareness of trends and I had the business head. I think at first, our mum thought it was some sort of “side hustle” - a nice way to make a bit of pocket money online - but by the time we’d filled her entire house with second-hand clothes, boxes and mailbags we knew it was big business.’ Currently the second biggest online retailer in the UK, eBay is home to 300,000 small businesses, offering them a shop window to 179million people worldwide. Sean says that even though he had experimented with selling clothes on eBay before, the key to success with Sheanies Vintage was taking the time to learn about the platform itself. ‘Anyone can list items to sell on eBay because it’s such an easy platform to use,’ says Sean. ‘But there are some amazing tools available for turning these stores into full-time businesses. ‘Such as eBay Webinars about International Shipping, which unlocked a global market for our pieces. It gave us insight into selling techniques and presets that have now helped us to sell on every continent and scale our business to a whole new level. ‘It also taught us clever ways to list our items. For example, one of most popular items we sell is silk shirts but we learned that you can upload “Variations” of the same item (such as differences in colour, size, sleeve style) to save time and efficiency of listing each individually. Since then, we have sold hundreds, if not thousands of silk shirts.’ Just nine months after launching their online store, the business partners and brothers were able to take a full-time salary out of the business, and shortly after their first anniversary, they opened the doors to their first physical store in student hotspot Selly Oak, near Birmingham University.  ‘Opening the shop was one of our proudest moments,’ says Liam. ‘It was so rewarding to see the enjoyment customers have been getting out of our eBay sales all this time.’ To this day, the Sheahan brothers are yet to throw away a single item of clothing that’s come their way; an eco-mission that won them The Sustainability Seller prize at 2019’s eBay Business Awards. And they’re only just getting started. Sean says: ‘Unfortunately, clothes on the market today are built to wear out pretty fast to encourage us to buy more. One day, we want to make our own upcycled fashion line using more sustainable materials.’ He adds: ‘Even with the Sheanies Vintage shop in Birmingham, the eBay store is the driving force behind our brand. Everything we have on the shop floor is also listed on eBay, though online sales still account for around two thirds of our overall turnover. ‘Financially, this business model has completely changed our lives, giving us material things like our shop and a house, but it’s things like the freedom, independence and confidence we’ve gained through small business ownership that have helped us to grow as people.’    Explore Sheanies Vintage at ebay.co.uk/sheaniesvintage  Visit sellercentre.ebay.co.uk now to see how easy it is to create a business that could change your life forever. 1. https://www.wrap.org.uk/content/textiles-overview  
