{ By Ciara Farmer For Mailonline   Published:  09:57, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8041437/Brigitte-Nielsen-56-larks-baby-Frida-8-months.html }
She welcomed her fifth child in June 2018 after a decade-long IVF battle, and has since spoken of the relief at falling pregnant after such a lengthy ordeal. And Brigitte Nielsen certainly looked to be enjoying life as mum to daughter Frida, 20 months, as they enjoyed a trip to the park in Studio City, LA, on Monday. The Danish actress, model and singer, 56, looked stylish in leather trousers and a sporty top as she hit the swings in style with the adorable tot.   Brigitte was every inch the yummy mummy in the stylish ensemble, comprising of leather trousers and a varsity style jacket with slip-on pumps.  She carried all her belongings in a navy rucksack while rocking her trademark bleached crop, which she has sported for most of her time in the spotlight.  The blonde beauty is married to her Mattia Dessì - her fifth husband - who she originally met on the set of Strange Love in 2004 and wed two years later. She welcomed baby Frida in June after a decade-long battle with IVF, and has spoke candidly about the relief she felt from falling pregnant at last. Brigitte has four adult sons - Julian, 34, from her first husband Kasper Winding; Killian, 28, with ex-fiancé Mark Gastineau,; and Aaron, 26; & Raoul Jr., 23, with her fourth husband Raoul Meyer.  Speaking to the Guardian last year she explained that having Mattia completely on-board with her journey, meant that she was able to endure all she had to go through. She said: 'You're on a lot of medication. It is very expensive. Hormones will do different things to different women. You always think you are going to get pregnant, but most of the time, the phone call comes and it's "I'm sorry". It's devastating.'  Brigitte was advised by her doctor not to tell anyone when she did fall pregnant, until she was 27 weeks along, so she didn't even tell her own mother. She admits to having to fight against some of the criticism she has faced after becoming a mother later in life. She said: 'Some find it ridiculous, some find it awful and some love it. I don't think it's anyone's business. It's my husband and my life and we love what we do.'   
