{ By Camilla Canocchi for Thisismoney.co.uk   Published:  09:50, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8041557/Hammerson-slashes-2020-dividend-half-retail-crisis-sends-rental-income-diving.html }
Hammerson, the owner of Birmingham's shopping centre Bullring, has warned it will slash its 2020 dividend as the collapse of a raft of retailers has dented its rental income.  The retail landlord, which last week sold another nine retail parks in a bid to reduce its debts, said net rental income fell 11.2 per cent to £308.5million last year. The decline prompted it to 'rebase' its dividend for the current year to a 'sustainable level', slashing it by 46 per cent to 14p - a more drastic cut than expected by city analysts. It has kept its 2019 dividend unchanged at 25.9p.  'Tenant restructuring, in the form of company voluntary agreements and administrations, has been the largest single factor reducing income,' it said.    Hammerson, like its rival Intu, has been hit by the retail crisis. It said 33 of its retailer partners entered administrations or went for so-called Company's Voluntary Arrangements, which usually entail drastic cuts to rents. Hammerson said CVAs affected 94 units across its shopping centres. Like-for-like net rental income from UK retailers fell 6.7 per cent, only partially offset by an increase of 2.1 per cent in France.  'Tenant restructuring made the single largest impact in the year, reducing total NRI by £6million,' Hammerson said. Lower rental income means it dived to a £573.8million pre-tax loss in the year to December 31, widening from a £173.3million loss in 2018.  Net asset value per share - a key measure - fell by 18.6 per cent to 601p a share, down from 738p last year.  Struggling under a mountain of debt, which Hammerson said it reduced to £2.4billion last year, the company offloaded several sites over the past couple of years.  Last week it said it will exit from the retail park sector, having agreed a £455million sale of nine of its retail parks. In total in 2019, it t sold £542million worth of assets, ahead of its £500million target. David Atkins, chief executive of Hammerson, said: 'Against a challenged retail and investment backdrop, we have exceeded our 2019 disposal target, exited the retail parks sector as we said we would and reduced debt by a third. This delivered nearly £1billion of transactions in the process. 'In strengthening our balance sheet further, we will create a more resilient business and also generate significant liquidity which could, at the appropriate time, be deployed to create enhanced returns for shareholders.' Hammerson shares closed 2.4 per cent higher at 227.50p on Tuesday.   Rival Intu this month said it was in talks with its largest shareholder John Whittaker's Peel Group and new investors to raise funds to shore up its balance sheet.    Russ Mould at AJ Bell said shareholders have seen a 'disastrous few years', as Hammerson shares have fallen 60 per cent since May 2018.   'Hammerson is taking important steps to protect its business, which includes last week's news that it will exit from the retail park sector,' he said. 'There are some bright spots such as the scale of debt reduction and an encouraging performance from its premium outlets.  'However, the structural changes in the retail sector mean that Hammerson will still have to keep adapting to be match fit for the future.'     
