{ By Brittany Chain For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  09:00, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8040641/Perth-cafe-owner-refused-let-disabled-woman-service-dog-sit-inside-health-concerns.html }
Customers are vowing to boycott a cafe after the owner refused to let a disabled woman and her service dog sit indoors due to health hazards. Lesley Frost, who suffers epilepsy and diabetes, claimed she and her Shih Tzu Lexi were ordered to sit outdoors on a hot day when they visited The Colony Coffee House of Midland, in Perth. She posted a complaint on the business Facebook page, which was met with equally outraged responses - many of which said they, too, would no longer dine at the cafe. 'I reckon they've just lost a lot of customers by this move, including myself,' former customer Gwen left on the business page.  The entire account has since been deleted amid the controversy. Prior to deactivating the account, a woman claiming to be the owner of the business stood by the decision to offer Ms Frost outdoor seating, The West reported. 'I have fans circulating the air in the dining room,' she explained. 'What's to stop the air flow from blowing a dog hair into the next person's food?' She said she never refused Ms Frost service, and doesn't discriminate against people with disabilities but personally believes animals don't ever belong in the dining room.  'I suppose it's like the next time a Muslim comes into my establishment I will tell them they have to eat bacon because it's on my menu and disrespect their beliefs... I don't think so,' she said.  That belief, she said, is why she created 'ample outdoor seating' with a dog water bowl to begin with.   The owner went on to say other customers commended her for standing her ground after Ms Frost left, and admitted they weren't too keen on eating near a dog.   'So tell me... should I lose my regulars who love my establishment to follow a law I don't agree with?   Ms Frost said she'd never experienced the same treatment anywhere else in her travels. Others agreed, saying the decision was rude. 'This is intolerable. Will not frequent this business ever again,' one woman wrote on the webpage.  The Commonwealth Disability Discrimination Act of 1992 prohibits owners from refusing access for assistance dogs in most circumstances. Animals are not permitted where they pose a public health risk.  Daily Mail Australia has contacted the cafe for further comment.   
