climate change
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  13:09, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8042335/Infrastructure-adviser-wants-water-plan.html }
Australia should have a national water strategy and a plan to protect coastal cities as rising sea levels threaten homes and businesses, the nation's independent infrastructure adviser believes. Infrastructure Australia has listed both initiatives among its top priorities for 2020. The adviser's annual assessment has also stressed the need for infrastructure to be built in a way that ensures it can be resilient to the "unprecedented risks" posed by climate change. "Climate change brings with it higher temperatures, unpredictable seasonal rainfall and water availability, more extreme winds, more extreme weather events and bushfire seasons the likes of which Australia has never seen," Infrastructure Australia chair Julieanne Alroe said in the report, released on Wednesday. "We must plan for resilience in our infrastructure networks based on a stronger understanding of these risks." The priority list has been developed using more than 200 submissions from state and territory governments, industries and the community, along with the latest infrastructure audit data. It lays out six high priority projects and 17 priority projects, all of which have a full business case, worth a combined $58 billion, and a swag of other initiatives. Among the adviser's proposals is creating a national water strategy which could help guide governments, the private sector and everyday Australians on efficiently capturing and using water. Demand for water across many Australian systems is increasing due to population growth and relocation, rising agricultural demands and environmental and cultural needs. The changing climate is also altering the water cycle, while land and forest management are leading to changes to run-off and evaporation. "Without appropriate planning for these challenges, there could be severe water shortages or restrictions in many parts of the country," the report reads. Infrastructure Australia has also suggested a coastal inundation protection strategy, with sea levels tipped to rise. "The strategy will need to consider which areas should be protected for continued use, modified to accommodate floods, or withdrawn altogether," the report said. It also recommends a national approach to waste and recycling management, with recycling rates standing at 55 per cent, well below its 70 per cent target. The approach would involve governments and the market working together to identify new investments in waste recovery and reprocessing. Other suggested initiatives include a national program of indigenous art and cultural centres and improving the availability and quality of mobile services in certain regional and remote areas. 
