{ By Nicole Lampert For Weekend Magazine   Published:  22:31, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8016849/Astonishingly-new-TV-adaptation-HG-Wells-War-Worlds-start.html }
You wait aeons for a new TV adaptation of HG Wells’ classic sci-fi novel The War Of The Worlds, and then two come along almost at once.  But then great literature is always being re-imagined for new audiences, mined for a deeper meaning about the human condition.  And after years of Brexit division, climate change fears and a general pessimistic narrative that the whole world is going to pot, perhaps it’s unsurprising that a second version of the apocalyptic thriller, to air on cable channel Fox, is being unveiled just a few months after a BBC1 series, as Nicole Lampert reveals... A STORY THAT TAPS INTO OUR FEARS The War Of The Worlds has always channelled the cultural unease of the day.  HG Wells had colonialism on his mind when he wrote it in 1897, saying the idea of a Martian invasion came from a discussion about the catastrophic effect of British rule on indigenous Australians.  It made him wonder, ‘What if Martians did to Britain what Britain has done to the Australians?’ When Orson Welles performed it as a radio play in 1938 – famously causing mass panic across America, with listeners believing there was a genuine Martian invasion – the backdrop was the fear of another war in Europe, while Steven Spielberg’s 2005 film used images that evoked 9/11. ‘I wanted to explore the idea that just like Wells’ aliens, mankind has an almost limitless capacity to destroy those it views as inferior or different,’ says Howard Overman, creator of the new series.  ‘When I was writing it we were a very divided country.  'So I was interested in this idea of difference, and we will learn that maybe we’re not so different from the aliens.  'The heightened circumstances of a planet under attack also lends itself to exploring the universal themes of love, hope, courage, prejudice, blame and accountability.’ SO WHO’S WHO? In London there’s neuroscientist Bill Ward (Gabriel Byrne), who’s still in love with his estranged wife Helen Brown (Elizabeth McGovern).  ‘His journey is twofold,’ says Gabriel.  ‘From a scientific point of view it’s to try to decipher these signals, while his emotional journey is to try to reconcile with his wife.’ As Bill and Helen search for their son, they meet hospital worker Ash Daniel (Aaron Hefferman) and team up to survive. Then there’s Sarah Gresham (Natasha Little) and her children Emily (Daisy Edgar-Jones) and Tom (David Tennant’s adopted son Ty).  ‘If it wasn’t for her children, Sarah would give up,’ says Natasha, who first found fame in This Life.  ‘But the lioness in her has to rise up and she finds these wells of strength.’ Sarah’s daughter Emily (pictured above, with Sarah) has Stargadt’s Disease, which means she only has peripheral vision.  But her other senses compensate, and she finds that she can feel and hear the aliens before anyone else. The computer-generated aliens resemble dog-like metal structures, and are unlike any aliens we’ve seen before.  ‘They’re beautiful,’ says Stéphanie Caillard.  ‘They’ve gone for a nice aesthetic.’  Not that the actors got much chance to admire them as they were created after filming had finished with the help of green screens and the magic of CGI. ‘I have a new respect for all those actors who do Marvel movies,’ says Natasha Little.  ‘You really have to use your imagination. Although we’d been shown models, we didn’t know what the aliens would look like so we usually had to work with a tennis ball on a stick.’  ‘Emily experiences the world slightly differently to others,’ says Daisy. ‘She has to rely on others, but because she has to trust people she can get to the heart of whether someone is good or not quite quickly.’ They befriend refugee Kariem (Bayo Gbadamosi). ‘He’s someone they may not have talked to before, but he’s much more equipped to survive,’ says Natasha.  ‘He also shows more compassion than Sarah.  'The social structures we’re used to disappear in this world. We all think we’re decent but new things can bring out the best and worst of human nature.’ In France, astronomer Catherine Durand (Léa Drucker) and the military unit with her, led by Colonel Mustafa Mokrani (Adel Bencherif), are trying to work out what the aliens want and how to destroy them.  ‘Catherine is a loner who’s not very open to her emotions and is suddenly overwhelmed by this situation,’ says Léa.  ‘She has to navigate difficult relationships as life becomes extremely tense – and extremely passionate.’ We also meet Chloe Dumont (Stéphanie Caillard) and her brother Noah (Guillaume Gouix).  ‘I think people will be surprised by the realism in the show,’ says Stéphanie. ‘It’s about people and loneliness.'  TWO VERY DIFFERENT LOCATIONS Like last year’s BBC version, this Fox series takes the basic premise of the novel and rockets off with it.  It uses no original characters nor much of the plot, but the heart of it remains: against a superior alien force, humans must unite to survive. ‘Ours is a unique version,’ says Elizabeth McGovern.  ‘This needed to be made – it helps us look at the time we’re living in. With the climate crisis, we’re facing the end of life as we know it.  'A more powerful enemy reminds us we’re all on one planet. The things dividing us are irrelevant.’ Unlike the BBC version, which was set in HG Wells’ Edwardian England, this one takes place in modern-day Britain and France. After signs of alien activity are detected in the Alps, within hours Earth’s communication systems have been wiped out and most of the population killed by a magnetic signal.  Only those encased in metal or underground survive. ‘This is a story about real people with real problems who just happen to be contending with aliens,’ adds Elizabeth.  ‘That throws their problems into a glaring light.’ There were two separate production teams working on the British and French storylines.  The British team filmed in a disused Tube station near Charing Cross, as well as in Bristol and Cardiff town centres, while the French were based in the Alps. ‘The French cast definitely had a better deal,’ says Natasha Little.  ‘We had a lot of car parks and underground bunkers to film in, they got the Alps. We had cold dark stuff while they had ski lifts and mountains!’ The two units came together for the interiors scenes, however, which were mostly filmed at a former Carlsberg warehouse in Newport, Wales. ‘It was winter when we were in Wales so we had to battle the weather, the cold and the rain,’ says Gabriel Byrne.  ‘The studios were cold, but then that suits the story because all the electrical power has gone. It helped to be in an environment that’s not conducive to comfort.’ Although in the same location, the two casts would only meet in the catering hall, where they’d wind each other up.  ‘We’d hear things from the director like, “The French cast are perfect, nailing every scene,” to push us along,’ recalls Natasha Little.  War Of The Worlds, Thursday 5 March, 9pm, Fox. 
