climate change
{ By Tom Bedford For Mailonline   Published:  20:00, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8030145/Prince-Charles-climbs-water-logged-cellar-devastation-caused-Storm-Dennis.html }
Prince Charles has been praised for bravely climbing into a water-logged cellar to see the devastation caused by Storm Dennis. The Prince of Wales was in storm-hit Pontypridd in the Welsh valleys to meet and console victims who have lost their homes and businesses. Restaurant owner Joe Gambarini, 65, said: 'He didn't just want to hear about the damage he asked to see it with his own eyes. 'The Prince asked if he could go down into the cellar, I warned him it was very slippery and I don't like going down there myself. 'Sometimes in Wales we feel like the forgotten people so his visit means a lot.' The Prince was in Pontypridd at the end of an action-packed day in South Wales which included a visit to a British Airways engineering base, a new Aston Martin plant and a hospice where he touchingly held the hand of a 97-year-old patient. Businessman Joe and his staff battled in vain to save thousands of pounds of baking machinery in the basement of his Prince's Restaurant in the town's Taff Street. They set up a pump but even that became swamped as the basement filled up with seven feet of water. Joe said: 'The Prince said he was sorry this has happened to us and asked if we were insured which we are. 'I told him we would get over it but I am fearful for the future and whether we can get insurance now. 'Prince Charles reminded me that he was an advocate of global climate change - I told him he was ahead of his time and he'd been proven right.' The Prince was welcomed by a crowd of 300 people as he walked down the town's main street which earlier this week was under three feet of water. He met staff from the dog rescue charity Hoperescue whose shop was wrecked by the force of the flood water. Volunteer Tom Humphreys, who also lost his home in the deluge, said: 'Prince Charles offered his sympathies and gave me some kind words at the end of a very difficult week. 'It's my 28th birthday today so his visit put a smile back on my face.' Labour leaders Jeremy Corbyn saw the flood damage in the Welsh Valleys earlier this week and Prince Charles added Pontypridd to a scheduled visit to South Wales. But locals said there was to sign of Boris Johnson and if he turns up now he won't be welcome. Builder Steve Jones, 55, said: 'Boris has missed the boat - he's been beaten to it by Corbyn and Charlie Boy. 'It's going to take a long time for Pontypridd to recover so we need all the help we can get.' Earlier the Prince was shown how British Airways is flying high in the world of aviation sustainability. He was shown around a Boeing 787-9, one of the world's most efficient aircraft, with the airline investing in a further 73 fuel-efficient and quieter aircraft before 2024. The Prince heard that duvets for First Class passengers are made of recycled plastic bottles and bedding is now wrapped in paper avoiding the use of 19 million sheets of plastic each year. The airline is cutting its carbon footprint by fitting lighter seats, using lighter cabin trolleys, retracting landing lights earlier and taxi-ing to take off using a single engine on some flights. Prince Charles unveiled a plaque made of recycled aircraft parts at the Cardiff base which he opened 26 years ago and now employs 400 staff. British Airways' Chairman and Chief Executive, Alex Cruz, who took the Prince on a tour of the base said: 'It has been an honour to showcase our work in this area to His Royal Highness today. 'Every decision we make at British Airways now starts with a simple question: what does that mean for our sustainability aspiration? 'We're now offsetting carbon emissions on all our flights within the UK, and were the first airline group to commit to achieving net zero carbon emissions by 2050.' Earlier Prince Charles visited the new Aston Martin Lagonda factory in St Athan and visited the CAF train factory of South Wales to officially open the facility. But in a day of trains, planes and automobiles the Prince showed his compassionate side consoling flood victims and patients at a Marie Curie Hospice in the Welsh Capital. The heir to the throne shared a joke and held the hand of Maureen Russell, 97, bringing a smile to her face.   
