{ By Brett Lackey For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  15:17, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8029275/Kevin-Rudd-calls-Morrison-Scotty-Marketing-says-PM-unfit-office.html }
Former Australian prime minister Kevin Rudd has given an explosive interview in which he claims Scott Morrison is 'unfit for office'.  In the interview uploaded on Thursday, the 62-year-old sat down in Sydney with YouTuber Friendlyjordies, who donned a 'Kevin07' t-shirt.  Mr Rudd argued that after the 'summer apocalypse' bushfire crisis, even the most ardent right-wing commentators might be questioning whether absolute climate change denialism is sustainable.  'Scotty from Marketing has been demonstrated by his response to the fires, and their long term cause, to be unfit for office,' Mr Rudd said.  'I think that is now a deep ingrained learning in the Australian community.'  'The political polling to reflect that will bounce around a little bit - but there is this deep learning about this guy - which is that he is paper thin.'  The former Labor PM said the Australian public, in his view, looks at two things when they see a politician talking, those are; 'Do they know what they're talking about?'  And: 'Do they believe what they're talking about?'  'Now with Scotty from Marketing I'm not sure he does know what he's talking about and I have no idea what this guy actually believes about climate change. 'His views and beliefs are deeply grounded in Pentecostal Christianity which is ultimately anchored in what I would describe as the health and wealth gospel.'  'If you look at the televangelists that operate in Pentecostal land they've all got pearly white teeth and they're all driving three cars at once. That's my calculation of his world view.'  After winning the 2007 federal election one of the Rudd government's first actions was to sign the Kyoto Protocol on climate change policy.  After retiring from politics following the 2013 federal election Mr Rudd has held a number of academic and humanitarian organisation roles.    
