climate change
{ By Latoya Gayle For Mailonline   Published:  08:57, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8025621/Can-remember-taught-school-10-questions-knowledge-test.html }
It's a question guaranteed to strike fear into the heart of numerous parents - 'Can you help me with my homework?' No matter how diligently you studied during your own school days, 84 per cent of parents admit they struggle to keep up with their kids’ homework, according to a recent study from TalkTalk. Maths was found to be the subject that left the majority baffled, with most parents admitting they have forgotten the basic formulas that they learnt in school.  People felt they were most clued up on questions relating to historical figures, with spelling and grammar close behind.    So can you answer the ten toughest homework questions without the help of technology?  Scroll down for the answers 1. What is Pythagoras' Theorem?  2. What is an isosceles triangle?  3. Is Uranus still a planet?  4. What is the subjunctive tense?  5. How do you know if you have an iambic pentameter?  6. What is the difference between there and their?  7. What is the difference between Mitosis and Meiosis?  8. How does the Greenhouse effect work?  9. What are the noble gases?  10. How many countries fought in World War I? ANSWERS  1. A maths formula used to calculate the length of a third side of a triangle. When you know the length of two sides of a triangle and want to find the third side, this theorem to use 2. An isosceles triangle is a triangle that has two sides of equal length 3. Yes. There are eight planets in the solar system, starting nearest the sun and working outward the order is the following: Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune and then the possible Planet Nine. Pluto had its planet status removed but if you were to include, it would come after Neptune on the list 4. The subjunctive is a verb form or mood used to express things that could or should happen. They are typically used to express various states of unreality such as wish, emotion, possibility, judgement or opinion 5. Iambic pentameter isn't a condition, it is a rhythmic pattern comprising five iambs in each line, like five heartbeats.  It's is one of the most commonly used meters in English poetry 6. There indicates a place, so 'I live here not there.' Their is the possessive of they, so 'They live there but it isn't their house.' 7. Both relate to cell division. Most of the time when people refer to 'cell division,' they mean mitosis, which is the process of making new body cells 8. Greenhouse gases including CO2, methane, nitrous oxide absorb heat from the Sun, bouncing some back to the Earth's surface and releasing some into the atmosphere.  Modern climate change is caused by an excess of greenhouse gases which over-insulates the planet. As a result, temperatures rise 9. The noble gases are the chemical elements in group 18 of the periodic table.  They are the most stable due to having the maximum number of valence electrons their outer shell can hold. Therefore, they rarely react with other elements since they are already stable 10. It grew into a war involving 32 countries. The Allies included Britain, France, Russia, Italy and the United States.  These countries fought against the Central Powers which included Germany, Austria-Hungary, Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria   
