climate change
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  16:34, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8025609/Bushfires-probe-climate-opportunity.html }
The royal commission into Australia's deadly bushfires season is a "window of opportunity" for climate change policy, environmentalists say. Prime Minister Scott Morrison released the inquiry's terms of reference on Thursday. It will focus on which levels of government are responsible for preparedness, response, resilience and recovery from fires, and how this can be better coordinated. The role of climate change has also been acknowledged, with the probe to consider Australia's approach to resilience and adaptation to climate change. Australian Conservation Foundation chief Kelly O'Shanassy says this part of the inquiry must be taken seriously. "We have a window of opportunity to not simply adapt, but to reduce, the impacts of climate change on future bushfire seasons and the threat it represents to life, property and our natural world," she said. "No amount of resilience building or adaptation will prepare Australia for the full force of global warming of 3C or more, which is the path we are all on right now." Oxfam Australia chief Lyn Morgain had hoped for the terms of inquiry to look more at the causes of climate change, saying it doesn't go far enough. "This could have helped reset Australia's climate policy debate," she said. "Once again, the focus is on the symptoms and not the causes." Former Defence Force chief Mark Binskin will lead the inquiry, along with former Federal Court judge Annabelle Bennett and climate professor Andrew Macintosh. They have been asked to keep in mind land management and hazard reduction, wildlife management and planning and development approvals. It will also look at traditional land management practices. The commission has been asked to finish by the end of August and collaborate with state inquiries, with the federal government keen to receive recommendations ahead of the next fire season. More than 30 people died and thousands of homes were destroyed in horrific blazes that burned across Australia over the past spring and summer. 
