climate change
{ By Lara Keay For Mailonline   Published:  10:41, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8041509/Conservative-councillors-Slough-slammed-plans-build-artificial-trees.html }
Conservative councillors have been slammed over plans to install artificial trees in their town centre - instead of planting real ones.  Opposition members on Slough Borough Council put forward plans to spend £170,000 on 10 special fake trees at a meeting last Thursday.  The futuristic trees would cost £17,000 each and have air filters that reduce carbon dioxide while producing oxygen to improve air quality, they said.  They would also boast free Wi-Fi and mobile phone charging points as well as digital advertising boards to promote local businesses. But the proposals were laughed down by ruling Labour councillors who quickly rejected them.  The Conservative councillors claimed each of the artificial trees would be as good as 275 real ones for tackling air pollution.  They are produced by a company called CityTrees and have been dubbed the 'world's first biotech pollution filter'.  The green structures use living plants to filter pollution from the air for the benefit of nearby residents and pedestrians.      Each CityTree contains a water tank, irrigation systems and sensors to monitor plant growth — all powered by a combination of on-board solar panels and internal batteries. By fostering different types of moss, the structures are able to remove various pollutants from the air — including particulate matter and nitrogen oxides — all whilst producing oxygen.  The CityTrees can even provide the local council with detailed information on their air-filtering performance, present status and environmental data on its immediate surroundings. They have already been introduced across pollution hot spots in London and have previously been employed in other cities, including Berlin and Hong Kong.   Local Tory leader Cllr Wayne Strutton, who proposed the idea, said the trees would also be self-funding because of corporate sponsorship. The motion read: 'This Council should look at the imminent threats posed by climate change and pollution and do its bit to help by looking at greener, more sustainable methods.  'We propose to install 10 City 'Trees' across the borough as a step towards a cleaner, greener town.'  But Labour council leader Cllr James Swindlehurst voted down the proposals. He said: 'It's the question whether you want to have 10,000 real trees to improve your environment or ten metal ones. 'I think I will stay on the real tree front and leave the Conservatives to put up metal ones, frankly.' Local Dave McDermott joked: 'Artificial trees for an artificial council. Very apt.' Another called Jon said: 'How would these things filter CO2? Where would the carbon end up?' CityTrees - also known as artificial trees - use living plants and different types of mosses to capture toxins and remove pollutants from the surrounding environment to produce clean air. Mosses, despite being a more primitive lifeform than most trees and flowers, conduct photosynthesis.  This allows them to soak up carbon dioxide - a greenhouse gas - from the atmosphere and produce oxygen.   They can also harbour friendly bacteria which further helps trap pollutants.  By keeping mosses in a container, such as those built by CityTrees, the conditions can be carefully controlled to ensure the plant is always thriving and therefore performing at optimum air filtration.  Each self-sustaining CityTree contains a water tank, irrigation systems and sensors to monitor plant growth and ensure they are healthy. The technology is powered by a combination of on-board solar panels and internal batteries.  Each CityTree which has the pollution-reduction benefits of 275 normal trees. Similar structures have previously been employed in other cities — including Berlin and Hong Kong — along with temporary trials across London.  Plants also help soak up air pollutants directly. Studies have found that the worst offending air pollution for human health is PM2.5 or airborne fine particulate matter.  These particulates are dangerous because they can get deep into your lungs, or even pass into your bloodstream.  Particulates are found in higher concentrations in urban areas, particularly along main roads.  One study from researchers at Beijing Forestry University in 2017 found 'foliage acts as a bio-filter of air pollution and improves air quality due to the leaves’ rough texture and large contact area'.  But the issue with relying on regular trees and plants to filter the air and remove carbon dioxide and pollutants is that they themselves are highly dependent on the environment. If they are not thriving due to disease, drought or vandalism, they will fail to clean the air effectively.    
