climate change
{ By Sahar Mourad For Daily Mail Australia and Australian Associated Press   Published:  00:08, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8022227/Mike-Cannon-Brookes-slams-Scott-Morrisons-plan-invest-technology-not-climate-change.html }
An Australian billionaire has slammed Prime Minister Scott Morrison's plan to invest in technology as 'completely backwards'.  Mike Cannon-Brookes, co-founder and co-CEO of the software company Atlassian, has called on the government to set a zero emissions target.  The 40-year-old said Mr Morrison's announcement to invest in technology without also focusing on fighting climate change 'doesn't make any sense'.  'From a business context, it's completely backwards,' Mr Cannon-Brookes told The Sydney Morning Herald. 'It's like, ''Let's start making some plans. Where are trying to get to? Well, we'll figure that out along the way''.'  The tech executive, who is worth an estimated $15b, said the resources are there to tackle climate change but Mr Morrison is not willing to shut down the fossil fuel industry.  'You're just not having the honesty to admit where we need to get to,' he said. He explained to avoid 'dangerous climate change' the use of renewables would achieve about 70 per cent of the emissions reduction target needed.    In January, Mr Morrison said coal was worth $70 billion to the Australian economy. 'It is important to communities across the country,' he told reporters in Canberra. 'Our government's plan is to meet and beat emissions reductions targets, without putting taxes on people, putting up electricity prices and pulling out the rug from regional communities who depend on the sector for their livelihoods. 'We will continue to maintain a balanced approach to make sure it is in Australia's interest.' Earlier this week, Mr Morrison announced that the technology target was just 'speculative' and wouldn't sign an agreement that would hike electricity prices and causes job losses.  'Currently no-one can tell me that going down that path won't cost jobs, won't put up your electricity prices and won't impact negatively on jobs in the economies of rural and regional Australia,' he told reporters. 'What is the impact on jobs, what is the impact on electricity prices, what is the impact on rural and regional Australia.'   On Wednesday, Mr Cannon-Brookes and wife Annie announced that they are funding a $12million resilient energy collective to rapidly install solar and battery off-grid set-ups that will power critical services across NSW, Victoria and South Australia.   Prime Minister Scott Morrison revealed plans he may adopt in technology rather than climate change. He described the plan as just 'speculative' and told reporters he would not sign an international agreement without knowing the cost. In January, Mr Morrison said coal was worth $70 billion to the Australian economy. 'It is important to communities across the country,' he told reporters in Canberra. 'Our government's plan is to meet and beat emissions reductions targets, without putting taxes on people, putting up electricity prices and pulling out the rug from regional communities who depend on the sector for their livelihoods. 'We will continue to maintain a balanced approach to make sure it is in Australia's interest.'  The Guardian reported that the investment in technology is to avoid signing up to a commitment of zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.    
