{ By Mark Duell and Amie Gordon For Mailonline   Published:  07:36, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8019507/Flood-ravaged-Britons-brace-drenching-today.html }
River levels continued to threaten to breach barriers across Britain today as parts of the country braced for a month's worth of rain to fall - along with further hail, thunder, gales and snow this week. It came as a missing 87-year-old woman thought to have fallen into a flooded river was feared to become the sixth death from Storm Dennis in five days, as flood-hit communities endured further downpours. Police continued to search for Jean Disney, of Tiverton, Devon, who is thought to have fallen into the River Exe early on Monday morning, and urged local residents trying to help out to not approach any flooded areas.  Dozens of towns and villages across Britain have been menaced by the floods more than 48 hours after Storm Dennis hit, and Prime Minister Boris Johnson came under pressure to call an emergency Cobra meeting. Rail passengers are being warned to expect further disruption due to more heavy rain, with speed restrictions being introduced in Cumbria and Lancashire as the conditions create an increased risk of landslips and flooding. Nearly 1,500 properties have been flooded and thousands more evacuated, with more rain building up in the West throughout this morning and up to 4in (100mm) of rain in North Wales over the next few days.   The rain will then move north, with Cumbria and Yorkshire likely to be most affected by the weekend. Both the Rivers Wye and Severn will remain especially high into the weekend, after both broke records this week. Emergency services are searching for an elderly woman who is believed to have fallen into a river. Jean Disney, 87, was last seen in the Johns Way area of Tiverton at 3am on Monday. She was wearing a dark coloured jacket over a dressing gown at the time. A spokesman for Devon and Cornwall Police said: 'These searches are currently confined to the River Exe, as evidence at this time has strongly indicated that Jean fell into the water in the early hours of Monday 17 February. 'Police are aware that local residents and concerned members of the public have been organising their own searches. Officers strongly urge anyone wishing to assist not to approach any areas immediately adjacent to the river, or any other flooded areas.' Anyone with information is asked to call police on 999, quoting log number 63 of February 17. More than 300 flood warnings or alerts were in place for England, including six severe 'danger to life' warnings, with the worst affected areas of the UK being South Wales, Herefordshire, Worcestershire and Shropshire. About 800 homes in Wales have been flooded, along with nearly 600 in England – including almost 400 in the West Mercia Police area – and about four miles of temporary flood barriers have been erected across the UK.  Defences in a flood-threatened Worcestershire town are 'holding up' - but more rain is on the way. In Bewdley, which straddles the River Severn north of Worcester, the barriers that protect businesses and homes on either bank were enough to keep the water at bay on Wednesday. The river had been expected to peak of about 17ft (5.2 metres) - well above normal levels. The Environment Agency is keeping a close eye on the defences there and in other places along the Severn, including Ironbridge upstream and Upton-upon-Severn downstream. The barriers in Bewdley have been doing their job, despite a 'remarkable' amount of water still working its way down the river channel. A steady stream of curious onlookers have been drawn to the historic town's main bridge - currently closed - to see how close the water has come to topping the barriers. However, Hereford and Worcester Fire and Rescue Service has warned people against taking the risk of getting too close to floodwaters simply to get pictures. 'Stay away from flood areas if you don't have a genuine reason to be there,' the brigade said. Residents are carrying on as normal despite the water rushing past a few yards away, with businesses open as normal. STORM CIARA (2) STORM DENNIS (5) The closure of the main road has seen community members setting up a free bus route, with a vintage double-decker taking people from one side of the town. The water is at its highest level in the town for 20 years, according to the Environment Agency, which is preparing for more rain. Dave Throup, Environment Agency manager for Herefordshire and Worcestershire, said: 'As it stands, our defences are all holding up. 'There's huge amount of water against them so we're monitoring that very closely at the moment. But at the moment things are okay at Bewdley.' Attention is starting to turn to the situation down-river, where levels in Worcester - which had dropped back in the last two days - are expected to rise again. Mr Throup said: 'Further down towards Upton-upon-Severn, we still have severe flood warnings in place there and that's because we do expect levels to rise again slightly and they are already exceptionally high. 'So we will be monitoring that again very closely through today with staff at Upton.' As time goes on the water will feed down into Gloucestershire, where 'some big levels' are expected later. 'The only saving factor there is there's not much water coming down the River Avon,' Mr Throup said. 'So that may allow things to spread out a little bit. 'Unfortunately it's not out of the woods, even then, because we're looking at rainfall for today, tomorrow and right through the weekend, which potentially could affect the tops of the catchments, which is just not where we want to be at all. 'But we will be prepared, so we're working with our forecasters on that for scenarios going through the weekend.' Kate Marks of the Environment Agency (EA) said while Storm Dennis had passed, 'we'll be feeling the impacts for a few more days'.  'There's a lot more water in the river systems. In particular we are worried about the Rivers Severn, Teme and Wye,' Dr Marks said. Residents in the Shropshire towns of Ironbridge and Bridgnorth were urged to evacuate their properties, while residents in Bewdley near Kidderminster were warned flood barriers at Beales Corner might not be able to withstand the rising water levels.  Deputy Chief Constable Julian Moss said: 'Water levels have been unprecedented in many places and the impact of such high-levels of flooding has been substantial across all the agencies, but more significantly to members of the public affected in any way.' The Environment Agency has 250 high volume pumps available as well as 6,500 staff across Britain to respond to flooding - including 314 flood support officers. The pumps are stored around the UK, weighing up to 15 tonnes, with most stored in the EA's principal depots. A range of pump sizes are located across the country to be transported as needed as quickly as possible. The EA can deliver temporary barriers anywhere in Britain within 12 hours and has a contract with Stobart Group which provides logistics support to help with this. The EA said 599 properties had been flooded across England as of Tuesday afternoon. Some 800 homes in Wales have been directly affected by flooding, First Minister Mark Drakeford told the BBC. More than 6km (3.7miles) of temporary flood barriers have been erected across the country and flood defences have protected nearly 25,000 properties from the impacts of the storm, the EA said. But record-breaking river levels and continued rainfall means further flooding is possible across much of the country, said EA executive director of flood and coastal risk management John Curtin. 'We expect further disruptive weather into tomorrow and Thursday, bringing a significant flood risk to the West Midlands, and there are flood warnings in place across much of England,' he said. The Met Office has issued yellow weather warnings for persistent rain in Wales and north-west England for today and tomorrow, and the North of England on Friday into Saturday. EA manager for Herefordshire and Worcestershire Dave Throup said the level of flooding had left affected parts in 'uncharted territory'. Storm Dennis claimed the life of Yvonne Booth, from the Great Barr area of Birmingham, who was swept away by floodwater near Tenbury in Worcestershire on Sunday. Six severe flood warnings remained in place today for the River Severn at New Street and Waterside, Upton on Severn, the River Wye and the River Lugg at Hampton Bishop, and the River Severn at Ironbridge and Uckinghall. In Wales, two severe warnings in place on the River Wye at Monmouth were downgraded by Natural Resources Wales, although the Wye bridge in the town remained closed. Hundreds of residential and commercial properties have been flooded and several hundred people have either moved upstairs or found alternative accommodation. Mountain rescue teams evacuated an elderly man from his home on a flooded road by breaking down his back door with a sledgehammer and taking him to safety on a raft.  Other neighbours on the A466 ventured to a nearby Lidl supermarket on canoes to pick up their food shopping. And drinking water supplies were hit after a treatment works in Monmouthshire flooded.  Fraudsters are posing as highways workers and offering to repair damage to homes caused by storms Ciara and Dennis, it was revealed today. Trading Standards chiefs are warning members of the public after reports of crooks saying they will remove fallen trees and do repairs for cash. The con artists have been targeting homeowners in East Sussex, which saw around 130 trees knocked down and numerous roads flooded as the bad weather battered the country. Experts also say there tends to be a hike in cold-calling after spells of bad weather. East Sussex Trading Standards team manager Richard Strawson said: 'Many residents will be surveying storm damage on their home and will be needing traders to help remove fallen trees, repair fencing or undertake roof repairs. Experience has shown that rogue traders will often visit areas hit by storms and go door to door offering to undertake such work.  'Prices can start cheap but soon escalate with work being done of poor quality or unnecessarily - with residents then unable to contact the trader when things go wrong.'  Welsh Water asked people in Monmouth to reduce their usage. Over the weekend, the River Taff in Pontypridd reached its highest level in more than 40 years and the River Usk reached the highest level since 1979. The River Trent, which had prompted a severe flood warning for Burton-on-Trent, also peaked at record levels of just below four metres (13ft) yesterday. MPs have questioned why Boris Johnson has chosen to remain holed up at the Government's Chevening grace-and-favour mansion in Kent while the crisis unfolds and asked why he had not called a meeting of the Cobra emergency committee to handle the official response. Craig Whittaker, Tory MP for Calder Valley, said his constituency had been 'really badly' affected, with 1,187 properties flooded. He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: 'But, amazingly, it's the third time in seven-and-a-half years that this has happened to us.' On the emergency funding scheme announced by Government yesterday night, he said: 'It will make a huge difference, but the problem is we've had to wait so long for it to be triggered. 'It's nine days since the floods in the Calder Valley and I can tell you I've been hammering on doors in Whitehall every day since, trying to get this funding triggered. 'The problem is, what happened last time in 2015, Cobra was called because it was very widespread. This time, because it was much more isolated to the Calder Valley, Cobra wasn't called, so all the ministers weren't in one room to agree a funding package. 'The sad thing is all this funding package that was announced last night comes from about seven different departments, and when you don't have a situation where you've got all ministers in one room, getting them to sign off is just incredibly difficult.' Owners of flood-hit homes will be able to apply for a £500 emergency grant and exemption from paying council tax, the Communities Secretary has confirmed. Both homeowners and businesses will be able to seek 100 per cent relief from council tax and business rates respectively as they start to salvage their properties after suffering the impact of storms Dennis and Ciara.  On top of the £500 hardship relief for individual households, the Government is also fronting up £2,500 to each business hit by flooding. And grants worth up to £5,000 will be made available to both businesses and households impacted by the floods to allow them to pay for changes that could help make their properties more resilient in the future. Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick said: 'Storms Dennis and Ciara have severely impacted a large number of households and businesses - and I recognise how destabilising this can be. 'This extra support, including new funding, will help people in the worst-hit areas to recover and get back on their feet as soon as possible. 'I'd like to thank the emergency services and key agencies on the ground for their dedication and tireless work to help everyone affected in extremely challenging circumstances.' The Cabinet minister also announced that the cross-Whitehall Flood Recovery Taskforce would convene this week, bringing together environment, businesses and transport ministers to provide flood-stricken areas with support and guidance. The financial measures announced apply to those affected in district or unitary authorities that have 25 or more flooded households as a result of storms Ciara and Dennis. Asked if it would have helped if the emergency funding had come earlier than last night, Mark Garnier, Tory MP for Wyre Forest, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: 'Yeah, look - if they're running an overdraft and it gets paid off in a week's time then I can live with that.' He added: 'Yes, absolutely, but, look, I think, as long as the money comes, that's what's really important to me.  'What I don't want to find is my local authority has had to run up some overdraft or, actually, just as importantly is not delivering the emergency responses that we need because of funding, but I don't get any sense that that's happening.' He went on: 'Being a humble backbencher I can't guarantee anything but I can absolutely guarantee I will be banging on people's door to make sure they do get that money.' And Daniel Kawczynski, Tory MP for Shrewsbury, said yesterday: 'Given the flooding crisis in our constituencies why has Commons not been recalled?'  He said that more Government funding and flood defence schemes were needed in the Shropshire town, where flood waters blocked main roads yesterday. Labour MP for Halifax, Holly Lynch, said: 'His refusal to call a Cobra meeting has really hampered the recovery of lots of different communities.' However, last night Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick announced he would trigger the Flood Recovery Framework, releasing thousands of pounds of aid for flooded homes and businesses. It means flood-hit homes and businesses can apply for up to £5,000 to help make them more resilient against future flooding. Households can also apply for up to £500 in financial hardship payments and 100 per cent council tax relief, while flooded businesses can apply for up to £2,500 and 100 per cent business rates relief. The Environment Agency claims that existing defences have protected at least 20,000 properties while the Government has promised to invest £4billion in flood defences over the next five years.  Rail passengers are being warned to expect further disruption due to more heavy rain. Speed restrictions for trains are being introduced in Cumbria and north Lancashire as further downpours create an increased risk of landslips and flooding. Delays of up to 30 minutes are expected as trains will be limited to 50mph between 5pm on Wednesday until 10am on Thursday on some routes. This includes a section of the West Coast Main Line between Lancaster and Penrith, where Avanti West Coast trains normally run at up to 125mph. Phil James, managing director of Network Rail's North West route, said: "The railway has taken a sustained battering from both Storm Ciara and Storm Dennis this month, so we have to take the threat of more heavy rain really seriously. "While I appreciate the speed restrictions will be frustrating for people, our number one priority has to be keeping passengers and our staff safe. "We have extra teams on the ground at various locations across the region to deal with any disruption. "Our temporary speed restrictions are a necessary safety precaution." Network Rail said it is working hard to repair and reopen lines affected by flooding in Wales, but some closures and disruption to Transport for Wales services remains. Lines which remain closed include: Treherbert, Ebbw Vale, Abergavenny - Hereford, Aberdare Line and Conwy Valley. Passengers are advised to check www.nationalrail.co.uk before travelling. Network Rail's route director for Wales and Borders Bill Kelly said: "We are continuing to work around the clock following the impact of the recent storms. "Even in the current spell of significant rainfall, our teams will be doing all they can to reopen affected lines as soon and as safely as they can. "I would like to thank passengers for their patience and understanding as we work to get the network back to capacity." Residents in Tewkesbury nervously wait to see whether their homes will flood with roads closed and an emergency shelter set up Residents in Tewkesbury are nervously waiting to see whether their homes will flood as Gloucestershire braces itself for the worst flooding since 2014. There are almost a dozen flood warnings in place along stretches of the River Severn between Tewkesbury and Gloucester in the aftermath of Storm Dennis. Some roads have been closed due to flooding and an emergency shelter has been set up at a leisure centre in Gloucester for residents living in high risk areas of the city. In Tewkesbury, many residents remember the floods of 2007, 2012 and 2014 and are prepared for what could happen. Retired headteacher John Badham, 71, has removable barriers protecting the front and rear of his home from the water which has flooded his street and garden. He also has a pump removing water from his garden patio. 'The experience is closer to 2014 than 2007 where the water is coming down more slowly, rather than sudden,' he said. 'In some ways it is quite anxious. 'We have been waiting since Sunday with the water getting closer and coming in. There are millions of people in England with similar problems. We have to keep telling ourselves it's only things.' Mr Badham, a former mayor of Tewkesbury, has lived in the town since 2001 and the last time his house flooded was 2007. He and his wife Marion, 69, also a retired teacher, have considered moving but have been unable to find a house they like in the local area. They pay around £800 a year for insurance and for a few years after 2007 they could not get any at all. 'When we bought this house in 2001 the only time it flooded before was in 1947, so it seemed a good risk. 'It didn't seem like a big risk but it obviously was,' Mr Badham said. 'The problem with Tewkesbury is there are five rivers coming into the same place. 'The only thing you can probably do is replace the bridge on Gloucester Road, which would be particularly expensive. The bridge acts as a barrier to water getting out to the Severn. There is a limit to what people can do.' Mrs Badham said: 'It hasn't been as close as this for nearly 10 years.' The couple have moved anything of value from the ground floor to upstairs in case the flood defences are unable to keep back the water. Speaking from his kitchen, he said: 'I have never lived anywhere quite like this - there is an extraordinary community. People coming together to help each other out. The police have been particularly outstanding. 'People are now talking about Storm Ellen and that is a bit worrying with the water coming down the Severn and flooding. I imagine the water levels will go up a bit and if we are saved we will have been very lucky.' Mark Sitton-Kent, director of operations at the Environment Agency, warned river levels may continue to rise in the coming days with more rain on the way. 'It is very difficult to predict what the rain forecast over the next few days will do but I can reassure people that we are absolutely on our toes and doing everything we can,' he said. 'Nationally around 700 properties have flooded and that compares to something like 25,000 properties that have been protected by defences.' Mr Sitton-Kent said incidents of flooding were becoming much more common and attributed this to climate change. 'I have been working in the water industry for 25 years and when I started floods like this were virtually unheard of and occurred once in a career,' he said. 'I've had more of these than I care to remember. 'They are becoming much more frequent and I think that can be a sign of the shift in the climate and the climate emergency. 'And I think we really do need to think long and hard about what we are doing and how we're addressing the climate emergency. 'Sadly, I think it's inevitable that we will see more of this and we need to prepare for it and our infrastructure needs to be better at coping.' These are the amazing scenes as a farmer risks her life by entering freezing Storm Dennis flood water to rescue some lambs.  Faye Russell, 26, tied a rope around her waist and handed the end to a neighbour and members of her team before entering the flood water.  The farmer from Derbyshire was one of a number of people who rescued animals caught out by last weekend's deluge, including a staff and a veterinary surgery who had to rescue pets at risk inside their rapidly flooding building.     Ms Russell was forced to act after the torrential rains brought by Storm Dennis started flooding her fields which had already been soaked by Storm Ciara.  She told The Metro: 'I said I'm going to have to go first. I didn't fancy filling out the accident book for anybody else.  If I got in a bit of danger they could pull me out. There were two people on the end of the rope because the current was so strong. It was fierce. 'It got quite choppy. I was swimming and had lambs under my arms trying to keep them above water. I had clothes and wellingtons on and they were full of water.'  On Saturday, Ms Russell and her border collie Tom moved her 300-strong flock to higher ground but she did not anticipate the sudden deterioration in the weather.  She said: 'The water came at such a force. At 8am we were fine. The sheep had plenty of high ground. But it was really driving rain. The wind and the rain cut me in two. So the sheep took themselves behind the floodbank and effectively watched the tide come in around them.'  At its height, the flood waters reached more than seven feet in height and presented a major danger to the sheep.  She continued: 'You just do it, don't you. I said to somebody 'duty calls'. You put your life on the line for your animals, you really do. They come first in any farmer's life. Any farmer will agree they come above yourself and above anything.' Ms Dennis said she and her team had just completed the busy lambing season and said farmers haven a close relationship with their animals.  She said: 'We know them by name. One of them is actually called Pebbles but she was like a big hippopotamus as she swam beside me. They will follow their lambs but you have to give them the confidence to get going. Sheep aren't very good in water but they were pleased to see me when I got across to them.'  Ms Dennis said she would especially like to praise her neighbours and the team on her farm for helping her save the lambs.    In Gwaelod y Garth, Wales, the Valley Veterinary Hospital was hit by five-foot deep flood waters after the River Taff burst its banks.  The £2 million animal hospital - which had recently been completed - was destroyed by the floods.  The state-of-the-art veterinary hospital is the most high-tech facility of its kind in Wales and opened just seven months ago, with hundreds of thousands of pounds worth of equipment - including a CT scanner, digital x-ray machines and ultrasounds - all destroyed when a month's worth of rain fell in less than 48 hours. All pets were moved to the building's first floor by staff once river levels rose but soon had to be rescued by firefighters - with one photo showing Border Collie Shadow being floated out of the practice on a sofa cushion. Mark Evans, VetPartners Business Development Director for South Wales, said: 'The crew from South Wales Fire and Rescue Service that attended were incredible. 'They had to smash their way through glass panels at the front of the building to gain access. 'The team was evacuated on boats and dogs were floated out of the building on cushions. 'Our out-of-hours team reacted very quickly, moving patients upstairs as soon as they were aware the river was rising. 'They also moved equipment onto work surfaces, but such was the speed of the flooding that the counter tops were eventually submerged as the whole hospital was under 5ft of water in less than an hour. 'This was a disaster but we will bounce back strongly. It has been harrowing for everyone involved, but the morale of the team has been incredible.' No one was hurt, and all staff and pets are now recovering from the ordeal with the animal patients being cared for at one of four branch surgeries elsewhere in Wales. The damage is currently being assessed and the two-storey hospital, which was opened in an empty warehouse in July, will not be fully functional again for six months. Valley Vets is part of UK veterinary group, VetPartners. VetPartners CEO Jo Malone said: 'The team at Valley Vets have shown such bravery and commitment in the last few days. 'They are determined to continue providing outstanding care to their patients and that is and always has been their primary focus. 'They have been through a harrowing time over the past few days, and the entire VetPartners family will help them in any way we can.'  Emergency inspections for more than 20 former coal tips in the Welsh valleys over fears Storm Dennis could cause another Aberfan-style disaster More than 20 former coal tips in the Welsh valleys are having emergency inspections over fears Storm Dennis could cause another Aberfan-style disaster. One huge landslide at a former tip-site was caught on video as thousands of tonnes of coal fell from the mountainside drenched by heavy rain. Experts fear dangerous landslides could cause another tragedy like Aberfan - where 144 people were killed when a coal tip fell on a village school. An enormous landslide in Tylorstown in the neighbouring Rhondda valley happened on Sunday - just 10 miles from the 1966 disaster in Aberfan where 116 children died. Further landslides have taken place across South Wales over the past few days - with falling debris closing roads and causing havoc. The coal authority says 24 emergency inspections are now being carried out on former industrial sites to ensure a tragedy is avoided. Mining historian Dr Ben Curtis said the Tylerstown landlslide 'evokes memories' of Aberfan. He said: 'The Aberfan disaster was such an unspeakably horrific thing that cast a deep shadow over popular memory in the area,' he said. 'So whenever we see anything like this, which is distressing in itself, it evokes images of Aberfan. 'Work was done after that disaster to deal with a lot of the tips with an emphasis on the tips that posed the greatest risk. However there was another slide in 1973 above Cwmavon, which caused an evacuation of the village. 'But events over the last few days show landslides are something we still can't disregard.' Former miner Cliff Durham watched the Tylorstown landslide as it happened on Sunday. He said: 'As soon as I saw this, I thought of Aberfan straight away. Believe me - you don't want to see that again. 'There's tonnes and tonnes of coal still around. The authorities should drill it so the water could go down but they can't leave it like that. 'They've got to take it away because it could come again.' But Lisa Pinney, chief executive of the Coal Authority, said inspections were being carried out to keep communities safe. She said: 'We haven't seen any major issues at any of these sites but we are ensuring that all drainage channels and trash screens are free from debris so they perform as they should. 'We regularly inspect our sites and remotely monitor key sites so we're alerted to any movement.' Experts at the British Geological Society said South Wales is prone to landslides. Engineering geologist Ashley Patton said: 'Landslides are caused by a combination of geology, the shape and steepness of the slopes and some sort of trigger, which in this case was the heavy rainfall. 'Wales is prone to landslides because it often has that mix. 'Wales also has sites where there is a lot of loose material left by man which have changed what nature put there. 'Wherever you have this material it can have an impact on the likelihood of landslides, even when it has been stable for years. 'These landslides can be very dangerous. At the moment we have saturated slopes and if we see more rain, it is only going to exacerbate the situation.' Meanwhile flooded families are bracing themselves for more rain as further weather warnings have been issued for South Wales. Another huge downpour is due to hit areas that have already been beset by bad weather - and five flood warnings are in place. The warnings come as council leaders said families could be left homeless as their houses are condemned by environmental health officials. Rhondda Cynon Taf council leader Andrew Morgan said 800 homes had been hit in his area alone. He said: 'We have to consider homelessness because some houses will not be able to be lived in for some time.' The Welsh Government has promised £10million for councils to spend on flood relief, but Mr Morgan says the bill is likely to be much higher. He said: 'That £10m is the initial amount for householders and businesses and we have released £1m from our own reserves. No doubt we will have to release more in the coming weeks. 'But the repair bill is going to run into millions and millions of pounds.' He said the Labour-run council had been 'simply overwhelmed' by the flooding. He added: 'We've done as much as we possibly could, but we need to look at it again as these storms seem to be happening more frequently.' In Monmouth, South Wales, utilities officials have delivered 40 huge tankers of water after a treatment centre was washed out by rain and residents were told to ration their use. Dwr Cymru Welsh Water said: 'Reducing water use now will ensure that we can restore full supplies as quickly as possible once we can access our site.' Flood-hit residents and workers praised the 'Dunkirk spirit' in Britain following Storm Dennis as communities rallied to help those worst affected today. Among the worst hit areas was Ironbridge in Shropshire where residents are beginning the clear up after the River Severn peaked last night, with the town's flood defences holding firm against the onslaught Up to 1,500 properties have been flooded in the past few days with thousands more evacuated – but spirits were high in the former industrial town near Telford today with the river level expected to go down. Mike Perks, manager of Cleo's wine and cocktail bar said: 'We got told we would have to be here all through the night. Then we were told that the water had dropped. 'Yesterday we were full of people and the council workers who were here seemed relieved that the water was going down. The community has really pulled together. 'It would have been awful if it had been a tragedy. The next step is the clear up. We just hope everyone is alright.' Mr Perks has had as many as 40 people in at the busiest point to take shelter and refuel with complimentary teas and coffees.  He said yesterday: 'We've got people drinking teas and coffees and having bacon sandwiches and everything else - the old Dunkirk spirit.' Dr Ann Henshaw, 73, lives in a cottage directly next to the River Severn by the eponymous Ironbridge. She said today: 'We've been fine. I've had lots and lots of calls and offers of help from friends. It was touch and go last night. 'I had to disable all the downstairs electrics which meant it was a bit cold. It hasn't been great, it's been the worst it's been since 2000. 'I'm just relieved the water has gone down. My garden is flooded. The water isn't bad for it at all, in fact it's probably good for it with all those minerals.' Residents in Ladywood which is directly next to River Severn and the iconic Ironbridge are beginning the clear up after their homes flooded. Pete Andrews, 50, said: 'It was a lot better last night. We weren't scared at all.' Residents in the area hit out at the council for not installing flood defences on their side of the river. Vic Haddock, 60, said: 'I've lived here for 17 years and this has been the worst it's ever been. Nobody can control the weather and if you live by a river then you can expect to get wet.' He added that despite the flood barriers put in by the council on the nearby Wharfage, residents in Ladywood had been given no such protection. He said: 'Over here were not told anything. We don't have flood barriers over here. I had to spend last night with my family in Wolverhampton. Right now we have no gas, no electricity and no amentities. It's going to cost thousands to put it right.' Robert Price, 53, faces a bill of thousands after his grade two 15th century cottage was flooded. He claimed that the water had peaked higher than the Environment Agency had predicted at 6.52 metres and that the flood would cost him thousands of pounds in damage. He said: 'This is the worst it's ever been without a doubt. I feel like we've been let down. The frustrating thing is that this is a grade 2 listed building and we have to go through hoops to get anything done. 'Since we've lived here we knew that something like this would happen. The council put up flood defences on the other side of the river, not here. It's going to cost us thousands to repair.' Debbie Kane said: 'Last night was OK. Monday night was terrible. We were up all night manning the pumps. We're a nice little community down here, we look after ourselves. 'We were told it was be five metres high and we were updated by text and checked hourly. We had sandbags and pumps ready.'  Some 30 properties were evacuated on the Wharfage in Ironbridge yesterday morning as a danger to life warning was issued. Elsewhere in the country, Pontypridd in Wales was battered by Storm Dennis over the weekend, but as families were left without homes, strangers were quick to offer their help, and a small community centre was overwhelmed with donations to help those affected. A small group at Treforest Community Centre, dubbed the 'unsung heroes', put together plans to get people aid.   Secretary of the centre, Cheryl Jarman, 58, explained they decided to ask people who were willing to donate unwanted items to help those who had lost everything in the floods. A post was published on social media and the centre has had thousands of donations including household items, food, toiletries, and stuffed toys for displaced children.    Mrs Jarman said: 'We have had a back up of bags this week as donations keep coming through the door. 'I've never seen anything like this at all. We've had things for babies, prams, clothes, toiletries - anything you can think of. 'We have been overwhelmed by the reaction here.' People have even donated beds, TVs, and Sky boxes. Transit vans were delivering toiletries and baby supplies, along with boxes of fresh fruit and daffodils. On Monday Mrs Jarman opened up at around 9am thinking she'd be there for 10 minutes to speak to an electrician. She didn't leave until 10.20pm because people kept arriving bringing donated goods through the door. The centre has received so much it's sending some to other venues like Trallwn Community Centre and Hapi Hub in Rhydyfelin to make sure all communities have enough to go around. 'We just want to say how thankful we are,' said Mrs Jarman. 'Can we just say how grateful we are for the generosity of others. 'There was a two-year-old here this morning and it broke her little heart - she has nothing. 'We are trying to help people and they're saying 'give it to someone who needs it', and they have nothing. 'People are proud and they don't want to take anything.'   Churches in Pontypridd also opened their doors to offer refuge to those left stranded by the deluge.  Families living along the River Severn were evacuated from their homes as a city braced itself for its highest flood levels since 2014. Residents in Hempsted and Alney Island, Gloucester, were told they were 'at risk' from the rising river levels, with some choosing to pack up and spend the night in a rest centre. Red flood warnings remain in place along the Severn with new predictions that water levels could top 4.5m in Gloucester, just 42cm shy of the 2007 peak. In 2014, the last time homes were evacuated, flood defences held and the area on the far side of Westgate Bridge was not flooded. Councillor Dawn Melvin has spent part of the evening in her ward as residents prepare for high tide at 3am. She said the people of Alney Island have either 'hunkered down' or evacuated their homes. Cllr Melvin said: 'People were evacuating, but all I will say is many of those people are the salt of the earth. They are so resilient, it's frightening. 'Even ones with small babies have been putting their furniture on anything they could to get it off the ground or moving everything to the first floor.' Gloucestershire Police said officers had been out in at risk areas offering advice to residents. A force spokesperson said: 'People have been advised that they are at risk of flooding. 'The neighbourhood team have been around advising and have told them they can go to the rescue centre at the GL1 Leisure Centre.' Cllr Melvin added that 'en masse people have been hunkering down' and the community have been helping each other to move furniture and the like. She went on to commend the 'level of community in that area' while the Environment Agency were pumping water out of the River Severn. Cllr Melvin, who represents Westgate on Gloucester City Council, said: 'People have been bringing out cups of tea and checking the Environment Agency have sandwiches. 'Some of these people, God-willing, they will have lost nothing but they might and they probably all know that they might.' Red flood warnings were issued for Alney Island, Gloucester, Hempsted, Minsterworth and Stonebench, Sandhurst and Maisemore, and Trigworth and Longford. 
