{ By Jim Odling and Andrew Levy and Jim Norton for the Daily Mail   Published:  22:15, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8018001/Police-fire-failing-stop-Extinction-Rebellion-activists-ripping-Cambridge-lawn.html }
Police came under fire yesterday for failing to stop a group of eco-warriors as they ripped up the lawn outside one of Cambridge’s most famous colleges. That officers let the protest continue undisrupted without making arrests was described as ‘an affront not only to the law-abiding public but to democracy itself’. The damaged lawn, outside Trinity College, surrounds an apple tree said to be descended from the one that inspired Sir Isaac Newton’s discovery of gravity. Tory MP Anthony Browne said he was ‘horrified’ by police inaction, adding: ‘The role of the police is to uphold the law.’ No arrests were made on the day of the protest, although police later accepted that ‘a crime has been recorded for criminal damage’. Yesterday, as protests by activists Extinction Rebellion continued across the city, two women – an artist and her former flatmate – were led away by police. Caitlin Fay, 19, was arrested on suspicion of criminal damage. She was also arrested during the group’s protests in London in October, when she wrote on social media: ‘Many people say our actions are inconvenient. Boris Johnson has called us “uncooperative crusties”. We are doing this for everyone, the planet, the children, the animals.’ Freelance animator Gabriella Ditton, 26, was arrested for allegedly spraying graffiti. Police could not say whether there had been other arrests. Extinction Rebellion, whose street protests last year shut down large swathes of London, are targeting the university over its investments in fossil fuels and plans to turn a Suffolk farm into a business park. They threaten to continue their disruption all week. Mr Browne, MP for South Cambridgeshire, was among those to criticise Cambridgeshire Constabulary for failing to curb the chaos and halt the criminal damage. ‘I am horrified at Extinction Rebellion causing criminal damage to the Trinity College lawn and illegally blockading the roads,’ he said. ‘I also find it concerning that the police have taken the stance they have – I understand the difficult position they are in, but the role of the police is to uphold the law and they should do so.’ In a letter to the force’s acting Police and Crime Commissioner Ray Bisby, he added: ‘Extinction Rebellion are flagrantly breaking the law, yet so far Cambridgeshire Constabulary has taken no action to intervene. ‘I am aware of the need to balance the rights of peaceful protest with the rights of individuals to go about their lawful business, but in this case it is the overwhelming response of the public that the police have got the balance wrong. ‘This type of protest is an affront not only to the law-abiding public, but to democracy itself.’ By causing criminal damage to the university turf, the activists were undermining their own cause, he said. Superintendent James Sutherland defended the force’s response to the damage – and roadblocks set up by protesters which resulted in ambulances being diverted. ‘The law requires us to protect people’s right to peaceful assembly,’ he said, citing the 1988 Human Rights Act. ‘Simply a road being blocked does not make a protest itself unlawful.’ Trinity College said it ‘regrets the criminal damage done to its property beside Great Gate’, adding: ‘The college respects the right to freedom of speech and non-violent protest but draws the line at criminal damage. Academics at Trinity are actively engaged in research to understand and develop solutions to climate change.’ The expert at digging: Amelia Halls With her distinctive smile and blue dye in her hair, she stood out in the group photo taken in front of the freshly vandalised lawn. Ironically the 21-year-old is an expert in digging as a former trainee site assistant at the Cambridge Archaeological Unit at the university. The Manchester University archaeology graduate said: ‘I am part of XR because I am terrified. ‘Everything we do is because we have read the science and we are scared.’ ‘Proving a point’: Colin Rodgers The support worker from Ipswich, 59, said he has been a member of the Green Party for years and written to the Government many times but ‘nothing changed’. He decided to take drastic action in pushing politicians to act and joined Extinction Rebellion in 2018. ‘I was a law-abiding citizen but I joined the XR protests in London last April and ended up getting arrested,’ he said. ‘It’s something I’m passionate about and I needed to do something. I’ve been taught how to deal with the police so that made me more confident. We had to dig up the lawn to prove a point.’ Glued to police van: Donald Bell The former soldier, 64, was one of the protesters digging up the lawn. He was arrested yesterday after supergluing himself to a police van.  The grandfather-of-one from Cambridge said he had been writing letters to the Government for nearly 50 years but was always ignored. He said: ‘We had to be more disruptive. I just felt compelled to do something for my children and grandchildren. ‘I wouldn’t be able to sleep peacefully knowing I hadn’t done anything.’ Graffiti vandal: Derek Langley Aged 64, he has been involved in a number of XR protests including daubing graffiti of the Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in 2018. The retired photographer, from Cambridge, painted ‘climate change equals starvation’ on the building before being arrested. He said on Monday: ‘Nature is not just beautiful to look at, it is vital in sustaining a functioning biosphere. Biodiversity loss is just as bad a problem as climate breakdown and the world simply cannot sustain further damage to our ecosystems.’ Led away by officers: Gabby Ditton The freelance animator, 26, from Norwich, was led away by police yesterday after allegedly spray-painting the Schlumberger research building with the XR logo and the word ‘ecocide.’  Her arrest comes the day after she is said to have helped rip up the Trinity College lawn. The University for the Creative Arts graduate has worked for the Radisson hotel chain, the BFI and Channel 4. She offers reduced rates to clients who prove their environmental credentials. Helped set up the tents: Tilly Porter The philosophy student at King’s College is from Devon and among the most committed of the XR Cambridge members. She spent her 21st birthday on Sunday in the wind and rain after setting up the XR camp in the city centre for the start of this week’s protests. Yesterday, she glued herself to a building in the city where oil industry research is carried out. Last week she was among those who occupied Cambridge City Council’s chamber overnight. In October, she was arrested after taking part in the so-called International Rebellion, which she said made her parents proud. Ex-student on payroll: Annie Rose A vocal member of XR Cambridge Youth, Annie Rose accused the university of being ‘exploitative’ but admits it ‘changed my life’. The 26-year-old, who was home-schooled in Suffolk before being reading theology at Cambridge, juggles activism with her day job helping the university’s outreach initiative.  She said: ‘It’s difficult to be in this position. I believe in the University of Cambridge – it changed my life... But when I see them being exploitative I can’t stand it.’ 
