climate change
{ By Jack Maidment, Deputy Political Editor For Mailonline   Published:  14:15, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8016365/Boris-Johnson-FINALLY-talks-Chinese-President-Xi-Jinping-coronavirus.html }
Boris Johnson has finally spoken to President Xi Jinping about the spread of the deadly coronavirus almost two weeks after China accused the UK of 'over-reacting' to the crisis.  Downing Street confirmed this afternoon that the two world leaders had spoken this morning.  Mr Johnson 'offered his sympathies' to those affected by the outbreak while President Xi thanked the UK 'for its support' in responding to the disease.  It is believed to be the first time the two men have spoken about the epidemic since it began at the start of this year.  The phone call comes almost two weeks after China's ambassador to the UK, Liu Xiaoming, issued a stinging rebuke to the British government over its handling of the outbreak.   Mr Liu claimed ministers had unnecessarily sparked a public 'panic' after the government suggested all 30,000 UK nationals in China should leave the country if they are able to.  A Number 10 summary of the call between Mr Johnson and Mr Xi stated: 'The Prime Minister spoke to President Xi of China this morning. 'He offered his sympathies for those affected by the outbreak of coronavirus in China.  'President Xi thanked the UK for its support and in particular welcomed the donation of vital medical equipment to China. 'The Prime Minister and President agreed on the importance of the UK-China relationship and resolved to work together across a range of issues including strengthening the economic partnership, to benefit the people of both China and the UK.' The two men also discussed the COP26 UN summit on climate change which is due to take place in Glasgow in November this year.  Number 10 said the leaders had 'resolved to work closely together on the issue of climate change'.  'They agreed that biodiversity and climate change are two sides of the same coin and must be addressed in tandem if we’re to protect the planet for future generations,' a spokesman said.  Speaking today Mr Liu said Mr Johnson and Mr Xi had a 'very good conversation' and that the PM had expressed 'high appreciation of the efforts made by China' to combat coronavirus.  Mr Liu also said Mr Johnson had told Mr Xi that he 'loves China and he wants to work with China'.  The call came after Stanley Johnson, the Prime Minister's father, discussed environmental issues with Mr Liu two weeks ago in an unofficial capacity.  He reported back to ministers that Chinese officials were concerned that Mr Johnson had not sent a personal message of support to China's leaders. Mr Liu told a press conference earlier this month that Beijing believed many countries had 'over-reacted' to coronavirus as he took aim at the UK's response. He also appeared to confirm that Mr Johnson and Mr Xi were yet to speak on the issue.  He said since the outbreak the two governments had maintained 'very close contact' before mentioning interactions between Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab and Cabinet Secretary Mark Sedwill and their Chinese counterparts.  However, Mr Liu made no mention of Mr Johnson.   As of yesterday afternoon, 4,501 people in total had been tested for Covid-19 in the UK, of which nine had come back positive. The death toll in mainland China rose by 98 to 1,868, in figures announced early this morning while the number of people infected globally stands at 72,436, according to the country's National Health Commission.  
