climate change
{ By Harriet Johnston For Mailonline   Published:  13:35, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8015715/Edward-Enninful-announces-British-Vogue-Forces-Change-event-Salma-Hayek-March.html }
Edward Enninful has announced the first 'Forces For Change' event in London, which will take place days before Meghan Markle is set to return to the UK to wrap up royal duties.  The editor-in-chief of British Vogue, 47, and the Duchess of Sussex, 38, collaborated on September's special 'Forces for Change' edition, which featured a grid of 15 'incredible' women on the cover with articles commissioned by the royal inside.    Edward took to Instagram last night to announce the 'Change-Maker Talks', an evening of 'intimate discussions' in London, with actress Salma Hayek acting as a 'keynote speaker'. It is not known whether the Duchess of Sussex will attend the event on March 7, with Prince Harry, 35, and Meghan believed to be returning to the UK for the Commonwealth Service on March 9.   Taking to Instagram to announce the event last night, Edward shared a snap of Salma, writing: 'I'm so pleased to present the very first @BritishVogue Forces For Change event, the Change-Maker Talks, as part of the 10th anniversary @WOWGlobal Festival in @SouthbankCentre's Queen Elizabeth Hall.  'Join me and a host of my dear friends, including the formidable @SalmaHayek, on Saturday 7th March for an evening of intimate discussion and inspiration.' Other women who will appear at the event include Pakistani writer Fatima Bhutto and British-Iranian journalist Christiane Amanpour.  It is not known whether the Duchess will be in attendance at the special evening event in London, which takes place early in March.  Meghan and Prince Harry quit as senior members of the Royal Family in January and are currently residing in Canada, planning to split their time between British and the US.  However, it is widely believed they will return to the UK for the annual Commonwealth Service on March 9 with the rest of the royals. It was reported last week that the Queen had appealed to the couple to attend the service next month.   For the Duke and Duchess, it will be wrapped into a wider whistle stop schedule which will mark their final duties on The Firm's frontline.  The Forces For Change event will coincide with their return to the UK for their final royal engagements before they make their final transition to non-royal life.  Last week, it was announced the September issue of the magazine sold out in 10 days and was the biggest selling issue of the past decade. Meghan selected 15 'trailblazers' and 'changemakers' to appear on her front cover. The line-up of women she admires included celebrities, politicians and activists known for championing issues such as diversity, body positivity, transgender rights and climate change. And Edward spoke of the success of the issue earlier this year, branding the Duchess of Sussex's Forces For Change initiative 'not a moment, but a movement.'  He described the response to the September edition, which was released on August 2, as 'phenomenal,' before declaring the idea would be continued in every issue.  Meghan's role as guest editor represents one of the most radical moves in Vogue's 100-year history, with the magazine saying it considers the new September issue to be its most important edition of its year.  
