climate change
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  04:34, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8040763/Israeli-president-Rivlin-lauds-Aust-spirit.html }
The president of Israel has lauded the Australian spirit after the country's unprecedented bushfire season, saying the durability of its communities bears a "striking similarity" to those in his own country. He also said the bushfires could lead to greater bilateral cooperation on ways to adapt to climate change and water scarcity. Reuven Rivlin arrived in Australia on Friday for a week-long visit and on Tuesday addressed the Australia-Israel Chamber of Commerce in Sydney. He is the first serving Israeli president - a largely ceremonial role - to visit Australia in 15 years. Executive power is vested in the prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, who next week will go to the polls for the third time in 12 months. Mr Rivlin on Tuesday said Israelis had prayed for an end to the Australian bushfire crisis and hoped the tragedy could encourage closer ties. "That tragedy, that terrible disaster, is an example of a crisis that might lead to real breakthroughs in the way we cooperate with our challenges, your challenges, caused by climate change," Mr Rivlin said. "Both of our nations are familiar with the complex craft of turning harsh conditions into remarkable success." Spruiking his country as a "start-up" and "innovation" nation, Mr Rivlin said he saw similarities in the Israeli and Australian mindsets. Two-way trade between the countries in 2018 was worth almost $1.3 billion. "The strong friendship between Australia and Israel is built on shared values and a long history," the former Speaker of the Israeli Knesset said. "But it's also based on the striking similarity between our spirits." Mr Rivlin did not address the media nor make reference in his speech to the Israeli-Palestine conflict. Gaza militants on Monday fired rockets towards Israel - which responded with air strikes - for the second consecutive day. 
