climate change
{ By Harry Wise For This Is Money    Published:  09:31, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8013039/Oil-giant-Chevron-invests-carbon-capture-firm-manufacture-glass-coal-waste.html }
Oil giant Chevron has taken a major step into decarbonisation technology by investing in a British carbon capture, utilisation and storage (CCUS) firm. Carbon Clean Solutions Limited (CSSL) has received $16million from a consortium which includes Chevron Technology Ventures, along with WAVE Equity Partners and the Marubeni Corporation, to enhance its carbon capture technology. The money will go towards its 'existing pipeline of global projects' and to developing 'containerised' solutions which can capture CO2 at $30 (£23) per ton by 2021. Aniruddha Sharma, CEO of CCSL, said: 'This investment demonstrates the confidence our new investors have in our technology and its commercial scalability.  'We can now grow our company to a size that can help deliver projects to make a 'net zero' emissions world possible and expand our modularised CO2 capture technology to heavy industry.'  Carbon capture is a process designed to prevent carbon dioxide emissions being emitted into the atmosphere from major industrial sites. The 'captured' carbon is then transported to a storage site. There are three methods of carbon capture: post-combustion ­carbon capture, which catches CO2 after it burns; pre-combustion carbon capture, which grabs CO2 before it burns; and oxy-fuel combustion, where oxygen burns the fossil fuel. CSSL has received financial support from the UK government to develop a new chemical which Sharma says is easier to handle and recycle for carbon capture.  The British Government awarded a grant to the company in 2012, which has helped it to compress the equipment down 10 times so it could fit in a container. This allowed the firm to ship containers to industrial customers. CSSL has multiple carbon capture projects, including in the USA, Norway, the Netherlands, and Indonesia.  Their project in Tuticorin in India helps trap 60,000 tons of CO2 emissions per year from a coal plant, converts this into soda ash and uses that to make glass at a local factory. It remains an expensive technology to produce, requiring huge upfront costs in order to create the economies of scale needed to reduce prices.  There is also evidence from Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology that they can increase the energy consumption of coal and gas power stations by between 11 per cent and 40 per cent. A parliamentary report written by the Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee stated last year though that the technology is necessary if the UK is to achieve its emissions targets. It said: 'We encourage the Government to view CCUS primarily as a tool for decarbonisation, rather than as an extra cost on power generation. 'Deployment should be prioritised because CCUS presents an opportunity to reduce the overall cost of meeting the UK's emissions reduction targets.'  Critics of carbon capture technology say it allows companies and countries to continue to burn fossil fuels, hoping that a miracle cure will arrive to solve the problems later. However, in areas such as heavy industry, which is responsible for around a quarter of global emissions, there are few other options. There has been no major success in making steel, which is needed to produce wind turbines, using renewable electricity. Business Secretary Alok Sharma said: 'I'm so pleased to see Carbon Clean Solutions receive this new investment to supercharge its growth and clean up our carbon emissions.' 'The Committee on Climate Change, whose net zero recommendation was adopted by the Government last year, has said carbon capture and storage will be an important part of reaching the goal by 2050.' 
