climate change
{ By Dailymail.com Reporter   Published:  05:25, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8015001/John-Legend-tries-wife-Chrissy-Teigens-clip-hair-extension-silly-Super-Bowl-snap.html }
People's Sexiest Man Alive John Legend tried on his wife Chrissy Teigen's clip-on hair extension in a silly Super Bowl snap she posted Monday for the amusement of her 40.7M social media following. Celebrity commenters included American Ballet Theatre principal dancer Misty Copeland and Milk Model Tess Holliday, who remarked: 'Something about John looks a little different... can't quite figure it out...' The 34-year-old wisecracking presenter also Insta-storied a cute video of their three-year-old daughter Luna Simone playing with rescue puppy Petey.   Chrissy and the 41-year-old EGOT champ adopted their precious poodle on January 5 from The Wagmor Pet Hotel & Spa, which was recommended by talk show host Ellen DeGeneres. Teigen also tweeted a video on Monday of the fashionable family hamster Peanut Butter, whom she and little Luna bought back on March 10.  The Simpsons guest stars raised eyebrows on Friday for hiring a private jet to shuttle them to and from the Napa Valley (500 miles away) for Valentine's Day dinner date at Chef Thomas Keller's restaurant French Laundry.  John - who supports presidential Democratic candidate Elizabeth Warren - has previously spoken out about climate change and rising sea levels.  Legend (born Stephens) and the Cravings author are also proud parents of 21-month-old son Miles Theodore. The power couple celebrated six years of marriage on September 14.  The Ohio-born R&B belter and the half-Thai Utah native originally met on the 2007 set of his Stereo music video. Chrissy is next scheduled to appear on this Thursday's episode of GMA3: Strahan, Sara & Keke alongside A Soldier's Play thespian Blair Underwood. John will 'return to the red chair' as coach in the 18th season of The Voice - premiering February 24 on NBC - alongside Blake Shelton, Kelly Clarkson, Nick Jonas, and host Carson Daly. 
