{ By Cindy Tran for Daily Mail Australia    Published:  00:38, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8014023/Xiaxue-sparks-online-war-plus-size-model-LaShaunae-Steward-morbidly-obese-people.html }
A controversial beauty influencer has sparked an online war with a plus-size model after claiming 'morbidly' obese people are 'disgusting', 'irresponsible' and 'don't live past 40'. Singaporean blogger Xiaxue, whose real name is Wendy Cheng, said US size-24 model La'Shaunae Steward, 23, should not be regarded as 'attractive'. The 35-year-old YouTube star said morbidly obese people should 'never be seen as attractive because death and disease isn't attractive full stop'. 'It's one thing to be chubby or fat but this is way past that. Most morbidly obese people don't live past 40,' Xiaxue said on her Instagram stories on February 14. 'They gorge themselves with 30 burgers a day and when they inevitably get a clogged artery or diabetes, taxpayers have to help foot their medical bills when their health conditions are entirely caused by their irresponsible behaviour. 'The morbidly obese (like La'Shaunae Steward) should never been seen as attractive... Irresponsibility isn't attractive. Even when they die [they] need three people to carry the corpse please.' Her strongly-worded views came after Instagram posted a photo of La'Shaunae on its wall on January 14 to promote body positivity. 'F***ing stop glorifying this s*** @Instagram. Shame on you,' Xiaxue said. But Xiaxue's posts were taken down by Instagram after other users reported her for harassment.  La'Shaunae hit back at Xiaxue, saying: 'Why are thin people this obsessed with letting me know indirectly they think I'm unattractive to them therefore I'm not worthy of love, a career, being visible, and literally telling me the age I'm going to die? Ok miss cleo.  'I don't owe weight loss to anyone. I don't owe anyone an explanation for why I'm fat or don't exercise. I don't have to prove my health.' In response, Xiaxue shared a picture of herself after she Photoshopped her face, body, arms and legs to appear 'bigger' - and she did not back down on her views. 'Don't gimme the whole "you are not beautiful because you ugly on the inside" bulls***. There is already a word for beautiful on the inside and it's called 'kind'. Beautiful refers to the outside unless otherwise specified,' Xiaxue said in her caption on February 17. 'PPS: Never did fat shame. All my comments were reserved for the morbidly obese only, and yes people with BMI 50 and above shouldn't be romanticised or glorified in the media.  'I maintain my stance. Morbid obesity isn't attractive because it leads to death and disease. This isn't personal against anyone so it isn't fat-shaming. And I did not ever talk about chubby or regular fat people. Stay triggered snowflakes.' Some Twitter users accused her of 'spouting hate against plus size women' - and called for her Instagram account to be suspended.  'Let's all go report this evil fatphobic person and protect/support La’shaunae,' one woman tweeted.  Another said: 'Her whole demeanor is repulsing honestly and it's even sadder that shes an influencer and spewing this garbage. Her words have impact and I'm sure she's fully aware of that and doesn’t care because she's too dense to see how wrong she is.' And one man said: 'Dear @Instagram, a user by the name of @Xiaxue is deliberately spouting hate against plus size women, encouraging bully and discrimination. Many have reported but her account is yet to be suspended. Do your freaking job.'  It isn't the first time Xiaxue sparked controversy. In September last year, she called Greta Thunberg's UN speech 'so damn cringe' and branded climate activists 'starry-eyed idiots'. In a series of Instagram stories, Xiaxue said Greta was '(one of) these young kids who are so freaking passionate over issues that they view so one-dimensionally. 'And who cares what children think seriously. When I was a kid I was an idiot and all these kids are starry-eyed idiots who say simplistic things like "why can't we just not have wars". Is climate change gonna stop coz (sic) of her crying? Let me know.' 
