climate change
{ By Cassie Carpenter For Dailymail.com   Published:  23:45, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8014323/John-Legend-brings-daughter-Luna-3-recording-studio-LA.html }
People's Sexiest Man Alive John Legend brought his daughter Luna Simone with him to the recording studio in Los Angeles on Monday. The three-year-old girl clung to the 41-year-old EGOT champ's leg before they headed inside with a group. Little Luna looked cute in her frilly-sleeved b&w dress and matching hair bow, while Legend (born Stephens) rocked a green letterman jacket and blue jeans.   Earlier this month, John tweeted: 'Luna is now at the age where she can reliably run and go grab something for Mommy and Daddy in another room. I'm looking forward to exploiting this.' Meanwhile, his wife Chrissy Teigen confessed Monday that she's 'lucky' she 'hadn't been arrested' for any of her past 'reckless' behavior as she participated in a game of 'never have I ever' on Twitter. The 34-year-old wisecracking presenter - who boasts 40.7M social media followers - mysteriously tweeted: 'I forgot to attach the pic and I just give up. no context is fine.'  The photo she was referring to (and failed to attach) was the 'never have I ever' list that has been going around on the microblogging site which includes things like 'skipped school,' 'been on TV', and 'had a 1 night stand.'  The Simpsons guest stars raised eyebrows on Friday for hiring a private jet to shuttle them to and from the Napa Valley (500 miles away) for Valentine's Day dinner date at Chef Thomas Keller's restaurant French Laundry. John - who support presidential Democratic candidate Elizabeth Warren - has previously spoken out about climate change and rising sea levels. Legend and Teigen are also proud parents of 21-month-old son Miles Theodore, and they celebrated six years of marriage on September 14.  The University of Pennsylvania grad originally met his Preach muse on the 2007 set of his Stereo music video. Chrissy is next scheduled to appear on this Thursday's episode of GMA3: Strahan, Sara & Keke alongside A Soldier's Play thespian Blair Underwood. The Ohio-born R&B belter will 'return to the red chair' as coach in the 18th season of The Voice - premiering February 24 on NBC - alongside Blake Shelton, Kelly Clarkson, Nick Jonas, and host Carson Daly. 
