climate change
{ By Heidi Parker For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:14, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8013579/Bella-Hadid-prepared-London-Fashion-Week-getting-24k-gold-face-treatment.html }
Bella Hadid prepared for London Fashion Week by getting a 24k-gold face treatment. The 23-year-old model visited Mimi Luzon, a celebrity aesthetician, in order to undergo the unusual treatment, which other celebrities, such as Kaia Gerbe, Irina Shayk and Alessandra Ambrosio, are well-known advocates of. Mimi posted a behind-the-scenes video of the brunette beauty undergoing the treatment on her Instagram page. She captioned the short, eye-catching clip: 'Angelic @bellahadid dripping in gold with 24K Pure Gold Mask Treatment #glowbymimiluzon (sic)' The innovative treatment is designed to instantly boost glow and restore hydration, especially after long flights. Last year, meanwhile, Bella revealed she was donating 600 trees to be planted in order to offset her carbon footprint. The American star - who is the younger sister of fellow model Gigi Hadid - admitted it 'makes [her] sad' that her job requires so much travel by plane, so she wants to do what she can to help the planet. She wrote on Instagram: 'Donating 600 trees to be planted , 20 for each flight I took these past 3 months and probably will continue for the rest of the year. 'It makes me sad how much my job effects my carbon footprint and of how brutally climate change is obviously effecting the world. Mother Nature needs some love. (sic)' At the time, Bella explained that the trees would be planted in her home state of California, to make up for those lost in wildfires, and she also asked fans for suggestions as to where else she should 'show some love'. She continued: 'This is so exciting and interesting to me, that even though I'm not physically there, trees are being brought to life in the most incredible places that are in demand of them! it's the air we breathe, the water we drink, the biodiversity and animal life we need.' This comes after her on/off beau Weeknd has confirmed his new album is called After Hours. The Canadian star took to Instagram to share a video which sees him driving through a tunnel in the city at nighttime before the title is revealed letter by letter on the social media app this week. The record will be the 'I Feel It Coming' hitmaker's first since 2016's Starboy and follows his 2018 EP My Dear Melancholy. The upcoming album - due out this year - follows a bunch of singles, including last year's 'Lost in the Fire' with French DJ Gesaffelstein, 'Power Is Power' with SZA and Travis Scott for the 'For The Throne (Music Inspired by the HBO Series Game of Thrones)' LP, plus recent singles, 'Heartless' and 'Blinding Lights'. The album title comes after the star's track inspired by his relationship with ex-girlfriend Selena Gomez, 'Like Selena, which was registered online with ASCAP, was scrapped. The Weeknd - who dated the Lose You To Love Me hitmaker between January and October 2017 - is believed to have penned the title track on My Dear Melancholy'about his split from Selena. The 'Earned It' hitmaker's next studio effort could also be set to feature some more break-up ballads, as he broke up with on/off girlfriend Hadid in August 2019. However, the model's mother Yolanda Hadid previously predicted that the musician - whose real name is Abel Tesfaye - could get back together again, because Abel is 'still close to the family'. She said: 'I mean obviously Abel has been with our family since what, Bella's 17 years old. 'You know what I mean? They're still friends. 'He's still close to the family and we don't know what's going to happen in 10 years from now. 'Now everybody has to focus on their career and try to, you know, do what they have to do and everybody's friends!'     
