climate change
{ By Wendy Douglas   Published:  09:29, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/the-instant-edit/article-7973749/Half-term-heaven-8-brilliant-activities-days-youll-enjoy.html }
We're not sure how we got here, but it's February half term... We struggled through the dark and gloomy days of January thinking they would never end, but before we knew it, school was out and we realised we hadn't made any plans for the week long holiday... Sound familiar? Well don't worry, we've rounded up some of the best activities and days out around the UK so keeping the kids entertained will be a breeze. From bike rides to treasure trails, there's something to keep you all happy. 1. Go into the deep The creatures of our oceans are endlessly fascinating and there's nothing like seeing the eyes of your little ones light up as they see something awe-inspiring. So a trip to Hull's 'The Deep' aquarium will be sure to impress. See sharks, rays and brightly coloured tropical fish and watch penguins at feeding time, but make sure you check out the new Changing Seas exhibition too where you'll learn how climate change is affecting the oceans and what that means for the animals who live there.    2. Get on two wheels Grab your bikes and head out for a ride with in your local area. And if you're in the Peak District then try the Fallowfield Loopline. It's a great route for a mix of ages and abilities and it passes by three parks so you can stop off for a play or a picnic on the way too. This railway path starts at Chorlton-cum-Hardy and ends in Debdale and is largely traffic free so while it's urban, it is peaceful.  3. Set out on a mission Children love doing scavenger hunts and Treasure Trails takes the hard work out of it for you. For a small cost you can download treasure trail maps for areas all over the UK. Crack codes, solve clues and learn amazing stories about the place you live. Or pick a different location and you can get to know new towns and cities all while spending quality time together. 4. Walk and wander Getting little ones to go for a walk can be like pulling teeth. But with a few clever stop offs for hot chocolate or a picnic, they'll enjoy it just as much as the grown ups. And if you pick a route that's full of interesting wildlife or has a few fantastic play areas for them to burn off their energy on, you may find they actually ask to go on a walk in the future. If you don't have a regular walk then finding one that's suitable for children in your area is easy. Just a quick internet search will provide all the details including start and end points as well as any interesting attractions along the way. 5. Book an experience they'll never forget If you want to do something a little more memorable or leftfield then how about booking an experience day for your kids? There are all kinds of things they can do from indoor skydiving to a junior driving lesson and a zookeeper day to having a tour of their football team's stadium; think outside the box and it'll be a half term they'll never forget.   6. Fire their imaginations Head down to the Southbank Centre in London for the Imagine Children’s Festival where you can feed and interact with dinosaurs, celebrate the Harry Potter books and go on adventures with Pippi Longstocking. It's a brilliant festival of culture, art and music and there are live performances, parties and all sorts of ways to get creative. 7. Become code breakers A visit to Bletchley Park this half term will not only be fun but educational too. There are loads of drop in activities aimed at children aged five to 14, with games, challenges and craft workshops all exploring how to use and break codes. Plus, there are exhibitions to see including a brilliant presentation with personal stories from 24 veterans of Bletchley Park, from cooks to code breakers.  8. Get crafty All kids love a bit of crafting but there's no need to create a mess in your kitchen, when there are stately homes willing to take on the mess for you! If you're in Cheshire head to Beeston Castle and Woodland Park where little ones can get sticky and glittery to their heart's content. Plus, inspired by history they'll make their own bronze-age roundhouse, cave painting and stone necklace. And when they've had enough of that there's the 40 acre woodland park to run around in.      Practical coats Wet weather wellies Brilliant backpacks  
