{ By Kate Finnigan and Kath Brown and Tess Cunningham For The Daily Mail   Published:  22:03, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8010183/Meet-females-fashion-taking-guilt-shopping.html }
No matter how often it’s repeated, it’s still astonishing. The global fashion industry —specifically, textile production — contributes more to climate change than international aviation and shipping combined, producing an estimated 1.2 billion tons of CO2 a year. That was the shocking conclusion of a UK parliamentary report into fashion’s giant carbon footprint last year. As models sashay down the catwalks this week and champagne corks pop, you might think the fashion world has its head in the sand. In fact, it is gripped by a sense of crisis and guilt. And while London plays host to fashion’s big party, its leading lights are working hard behind the scenes to clean up the industry’s act. They face an obvious dilemma. The industry is worth £32 billion to the UK economy and employs 890,000 people. It clearly needs to change its ways — but it also needs us to carry on spending. How can fashion go green without putting itself out of business? And, given the changes we all need to make, is the industry even sustainable? We asked some of its leaders to gaze into their crystal balls. From buy-back schemes at John Lewis to eco-friendly subsidies at City Hall, meet the women planning a revolution... AT VOGUE WE’RE WALKING THE WALK Vanessa Kingori MBE, publisher of British Vogue Last month, Vogue magazine put Taylor Swift on the cover wearing vintage Chanel rather than a dress from a new collection. It was, says Vanessa Kingori, ‘a statement to the industry’. ‘Sustainability is the ultimate sign of luxury,’ she says. ‘Buy well and you’ll need less and send less to landfill. Stylish, well-made pieces have never gone out of fashion and never will.’ Vanessa became the first female publishing director of Vogue in 2017 and, together with editor-in-chief Edward Enninful, she is determined to turn fashion’s bible green. ‘We are using our influence to make sustainability fashionable at a consumer level, with coverage of sustainable brands, innovative materials and working conditions,’ she says. Last month, she spoke on the fashion and sustainability panel at the World Economic Forum in Davos and she admits the industry still has a long way to go. ‘We aren’t there yet by any means, but we’re making bold steps. Last year, for instance, we finally did away with plastic subscriber bags [in which the magazine is wrapped] and now use compostable film made from potato starch instead.’ Under Edward and Vanessa’s tenure, British Vogue has featured more black, Asian and ethnic minority faces, with pop star Rihanna the first woman of colour to be on the coveted September cover in 2018. ‘We’re focusing on really walking the walk,’ says Vanessa. ‘It’s been great seeing other brands I work with saying, “If it’s worked for Vogue, we should do it”.’ A former model and new mother to nine-month-old Charlie (Enninful is his godfather), Vanessa was born in Kenya and raised on the Caribbean island of St Kitts. She moved to London aged seven. ‘I was shell-shocked. Life in St Kitts is simple — we wore flip-flops or went barefoot. London was the first time I wore a coat. ‘But my mum was always very glamorous. She was a nurse and after a long shift, nice clothes and lipstick would help her feel refreshed. She used to tell me: “The way you dress is like smiling at someone —they can’t help but smile back.” ’ WHAT TO WEAR TO SAVE THE PLANET: ‘I don’t buy many clothes. But I love accessories — shoes, belts and bags — because they can put a different spin on an outfit. Maybe slightly controversially, I’m not someone who follows fashion. I’m more into finding my own style.’ ONLINE SHOPPING MUST CHANGE, TOO Mandy Watkins, 51, founder of online retailer Hush, which has an annual turnover of £40 million. Change is inevitable, says Mandy — it’s happening from within. ‘These days, whenever we interview someone for a job they ask about our sustainability credentials. No one wants to work for someone who’s doing bad business.’ Earlier this year, Hush appointed a sustainability co-ordinator to help it toe the line. The company also works with the London College of Fashion’s centre for sustainability to tackle what Mandy admits are often complex problems. ‘You think you’re doing the right thing with a catalogue made from recycled paper, for example, but then discover the ink may mean it isn’t actually recyclable.’ Mandy adds: ‘All our packaging will be made of recycled material from the middle of the year, even down to the plastic that secures the swing tag to the garment. ‘We are also giving some of our unsold denim new life as denim shorts, and we’ll be starting a takeback programme [buying back and upcycling old garments] soon.’ But the whole supply chain needs to change, Mandy says. ‘You can only be more sustainable if you have the right suppliers. So now we work with them and tell them what they need to change. ‘We don’t want working in fashion to be the equivalent of the tobacco industry — something you wouldn’t feel proud of.’ Mandy claims ‘the internet changed everything for fashion’ — yet many would argue that it brought with it a multitude of problems, not least by creating an environment in which ultra-cheap, disposable fashion can flourish. But Mandy is determined to prove online shopping can be eco-friendly. ‘Fast fashion is the real problem,’ she says, ‘so the best way to minimise the environmental impact is to create or buy clothes that last — good-quality pieces, fairly priced and not so trend-led that you won’t want to be seen dead in them in six months’ time. ‘Of course, there’s no substitute for being able to try something on before you buy, but there is a lot we can do to give customers a real idea of what will work for them prior to purchase.’ WHAT TO WEAR TO SAVE THE PLANET: ‘Buy clothes you will wear a lot. If you don’t wear an item, give it, or sell it, to someone who will.’ THE FUTURE IS WITH ECO-DESIGNERS Justine Simons, 49, London’s Deputy Mayor for Culture and the Creative industries Very few politicians are invited to show off their personal style in Vogue, but Justine Simons was one of them, appearing in the January 2020 issue talking about her role in the fashion industry and her colourful wardrobe of vintage finds. When we meet, she is wearing a 1980s black Versace silk shirt. ‘I love the character of vintage pieces — and it’s also a sustainable way of dressing,’ she says. ‘There is a big shift towards resale, vintage and renting.’ Her own favourites include a 1970s dress that she shortened and trimmed with black velvet. ‘My mum is a self-taught dressmaker and I watched her making dresses from Vogue patterns. ‘My feeling is that sustainability in fashion has gone from a niche to a mainstream thing. If you talk to designers in college now, it’s at the core of what they’re doing. And consumers are asking where things are made, what the working conditions are, is the fabric recycled?’ Justine has worked as London’s Head of Culture under mayors Ken Livingstone, Boris Johnson and now Sadiq Khan, who promoted her to be his deputy. It’s the Mayor who funds the British Fashion Council, which puts on London Fashion Week twice a year — and that makes Justine a key player. ‘We did one recent sustainability project with Vivienne Westwood — a big push to get brands to switch to green energy, supported by very big names like Selfridges and Harvey Nichols,’ she says. But she is most enthusiastic about young designers — Bethany Williams, for example — who are building solutions to fashion’s sustainability crisis into design itself. Last year the mayor’s office helped Williams to put on her LFW show. WHAT TO WEAR TO SAVE THE PLANET: ‘If everyone changes their behaviour, it will add up to change. Personally, I love vintage pieces. Resale is getting better all the time.’ FAST FASHION IS THE BIGGEST CRIME Farrah Storr, 41, editor of UK Elle magazine Farrah is convinced ‘fast fashion’ is a blip. ‘We need to get away from the mindset of buying something new for the weekend and never wearing it again,’ she says. Instead, we need to return to the timeless, classic fashion ethos embraced by women in the Sixties, Seventies and even Eighties. ‘My mum Linda was my biggest influence. She taught me to buy ‘forever’ clothes — I remember her buying this pair of gorgeous brown Ferragamo pumps in the January sales that lasted for 20 years.’ Farrah still wears a pair of suede Dior shoes she bought in a sample sale 19 years ago. ‘I love resale sites and I buy on eBay,’ she says. ‘I also look after my clothes. I wrap everything in tissue paper and I have clothes repaired. When they are eventually too old to be worn, they end up in the dog bed.’ Elle devoted an issue to sustainable fashion last year and Farrah is determined to keep promoting the message. ‘We’re flagging ethical brands like Stella McCartney and smaller ones like the Australian company Bassick,’ she says. ‘Like them, the American-based company Allbirds uses sustainable fabrics. And there’s an online company, DL1961, whose jeans are made from renewable wood.’ WHAT TO WEAR TO SAVE THE PLANET: ‘Only buy something you really love, which you are confident has been made ethically.’ THERE'S TOO MUCH PRESSURE TO BE ON TREND Jo Bennett, 41, Head of Womenswear Buying at John Lewis & Partners You may not have heard Jo’s name, but she is quite likely to have picked out some of the pieces in your wardrobe. As head of womenswear at John Lewis, she is perhaps the most influential woman in High Street fashion, with the power to make or break labels. And today, she says, sustainability is a key part of what attracts her to a range. ‘Customers want to know more about where their clothes are from. We’ve started this with our cashmere, for example — the details are on the tags and our website.’ John Lewis has signed up to the Sustainable Fibre Alliance (SFA), a British non-profit organisation that monitors the cashmere supply chain all the way from goat herders to retailers. It has also been trialling a buyback scheme in its store in Oxford, where customers are paid £3 in vouchers for worn clothes bought from the shop (up to a maximum of three items). Jo hopes to extend the scheme with a pop-up at the flagship Oxford Street branch on Earth Day in April. ‘Earth Day will also see the launch of our collaboration with eco-conscious brand Mother of Pearl,’ says Jo. The range will be available in 14 stores and online. Yet we need to buy less as well as buy better — and as the High Street battles the increasing might of online retail, that is a potential problem for stores like John Lewis. ‘There’s no denying that department store retailing is having a challenging time,’ Jo admits. ‘But we are fighting back with innovation.’ Would she consider introducing a rental service? ‘Oh, absolutely. We’re working on some plans for that at the moment. The way women look after and manage their wardrobes will be completely different. From rental to buy-back — it’s getting that circular economy going.’ Most of all, Jo believes women should find joy in their wardrobes. ‘My own go-to is my tux suit from Modern Rarity,’ she says. ‘I love fashion but there is too much pressure on women to keep up with trends. You should wear what suits you — outfits you will want to wear again and again.’ WHAT TO WEAR TO SAVE THE PLANET: ‘John Lewis’s And/Or denim jeans, made from organic cotton and recyled polyester.’  
