climate change
{ By Marta Jary For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  12:26, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8009619/Adam-Lambert-Queen-perform-Fire-Fight-Australia-bushfire-relief-concert-Sydney.html }
When Adam Lambert and Queen took to the stage at ANZ Stadium in Sydney on Sunday evening, it was an extra special event.    The band wowed the crowd at the Fire Fight Australia bushfire relief concert by reprising the band's iconic 1985 Live Aid set.   Originally performed by Freddie Mercury, Brian May, Roger Taylor and John Deacon nearly 35 years ago at London's Wembley Stadium, it was regarded as one of the greatest live performances of all time.  Fans had a unique chance to share in a piece of rock history revisited when Brian May and Roger Taylor, and the band's permanent singer Adam Lambert, took to the stage to recreate the band's original 22 minute Live Aid set.  The six-song set is made up of Bohemian Rhapsody, Radio Ga Ga, Hammer To Fall, Crazy Little Thing Called Love, We Will Rock You and We Are The Champions. 'We're very happy to be able to do our bit to help Australia to fight back against the terrible fires,' guitarist Brian said of the event.  'This is Australia's pain but it's humanity's problem. My heart has broken seeing the plight of the animals. I hope the concert will help them too. We all need this tragedy to never happen again. ' Drummer Roger Taylor added: 'This would seem to be not only Australia's problem but a climate change problem that affects the whole world.  'We are here right now and anything we can do to help in finding Australia a way to recover is the least we can do as musicians. We are all in trouble.'  Singer Adam Lambert chimed in: 'It's terrifying to see what is happening to our world, and we need to take responsibility now.  'To be able to be part of Fire Fight which is doing just that, is a real honour' the American star said.    The event featured artists including 5 Seconds of Summer, Olivia Newton-John, Michael Buble, Conrad Sewell, Daryl Braithwaite, Delta Goodrem, Illy, Grinspoon, Guy Sebastian, Hilltop Hoods and k.d. lang.  Ticket profits will go to several organisations assisting those affected by the recent bushfires including fire services, Red Cross Disaster Relief and Recovery, and the RSPCA Bushfire Appeal.  
