climate change
{ By Jemma Carr For Mailonline   Published:  10:26, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8009459/Meghan-Markles-homeless-brother-says-spent-time-looking-family.html }
Meghan Markle's homeless half-brother has slammed the royal couple for helping good causes and not their own family. Tom Markle, 53 - son of Meghan's father Thomas Sr - was left homeless after he lost jobs and his relationship ended. He claims his surname has prevented him being hired and added: 'Being associated with Meghan has nearly destroyed me.' He has now moved to his elderly mother's home in New Mexico but says the process has been a 'f***ing nightmare'. Mr Markle told The Sun: 'I am homeless and could have been under a bridge with a cardboard sign begging for money.' He added: 'For her to sit there on her royal pedestal and watch this happening to her family — she should have done her humanitarian work for us.' Since beginning a transition phase of living in Canada and the UK with Prince Harry and nine-month-old son Archie, Meghan has been photographed visiting two Vancouver charities: climate change group 'Justice for Girls' and Downtown Eastside Women's Center. It comes as the Duke and Duchess of Sussex were spotted together for the first time since Megxit as they stepped off a plane in Canada on Valentine's Day. The couple were presumed to be in the States for business meetings as they look to start making money independent of the crown.  Talking about the couple's decision to step back as senior royals, Meghan's brother previously said he didn't 'necessarily support' his sister's move, but believes it comes down to 'two people in love wanting to live their lives.' He said: 'I think that's (royal title) probably one of the biggest achievements you can ever get in life and to be on that pedestal and that position is a major honour for anybody in the entire world. 'It would just have to be a simple explanation that they want to live their lives the way they want to live it and I guess they wanna do it in private,' he told Australian morning show Sunrise.  Mr Markle admitted he was surprised to learn Meghan was disrupting years of tradition which he called 'a little bit insulting.' 'It can be one thing, it could be Meghan wanting her way and not wanting to live under anybody's control, and then it could be her and Harry wanting to go off and be private and not be bothered by any responsibilities except for their own.' 
