{ By Event Critics   Published:  22:02, 15 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//home/event/article-7999731/From-Al-Pacino-Hunters-Taylor-Swift-doc-Outlander-best-demand-TV-week.html }
AMAZON  Hunters It’s 1977 and high-ranking Nazi officials have infiltrated New York City, conspiring to create a Fourth Reich in the US. A team of vigilantes sets out on a bloody quest to thwart their evil plans and save America from genocide.  A superhero Nazi-hunter mash-up, this ten-part series stars Al Pacino in a rare small-screen role as Meyer Offerman, a Holocaust survivor and leader of the ragtag group, which includes a locksmith, spy, soldier, weapons experts and master of disguise.  Executive produced by Get Out writer Jordan Peele, it’s a long, long way from Simon Wiesenthal. From Friday   Outlander  As series five of the century-hopping romance opens, Claire and Jamie (Caitriona Balfe and Sam Heughan) are continuing to thrive in the New World, but time-traveller Claire is burdened by what she knows of the impending American Revolution.  Will the couple decide to use their knowledge to change the course of history? Any Poldark fans who have yet to find a suitable replacement to fill the void left by Captain Ross’s departure will find their period-set, romance-filled, pecs-a-plenty needs well met by this hugely enjoyable romp based on Diana Gabaldon’s novels. From Monday   All Or Nothing: The Philadelphia Eagles The All Or Nothing series has raised the bar for sports documentaries with its in-depth glimpses into the inner workings of sports giants.  This eight-part series, narrated by Jon Hamm, opens with American football team the Eagles’ 2018 Super Bowl victory parade and the team’s sky-high expectations for the season ahead.  What follows is a classic case of sporting disappointment. Available now   Little Women You may have seen Greta Gerwig’s movie, which won an Oscar for best costume design. Now watch a more in-depth adaptation of Louisa M Alcott’s US Civil War novel.  First shown in 2017, this mini-series stars Maya Hawke – daughter of Uma Thurman and Ethan Hawke – as Jo March, with Emily Watson and Angela Lansbury. StarzPlay, available now   NETFLIX  Miss Americana This year’s Glastonbury headliner, Taylor Swift, is the latest high-profile celebrity to subject herself to an access-all-areas documentary.  Revealing the pain behind the picture-perfect image (50 million albums sold, personal fortune of £275 million), she discusses an eating disorder, feuding with rapper Kanye West and wife Kim Kardashian, and the feeling that everything she had worked for (home-movie footage shows she’s someone who truly grew up on stage) was no longer enough.  This all prompted a year when she disappeared from the spotlight, and this fascinating doc shows what happened next. Available now   Occupied Supporters of the so-called ‘Norway model’ should look away now. In a fictional near future, Norway’s ruling Green Party stops oil and gas production, just as the pipelines run dry across Europe.  The EU, no friend after all to the Scandinavian country, backs a Russian ‘soft invasion’ of the land to restore its energy production. Bitter underground resistance and a fast-flowing, gripping, three-season drama follows.  From an idea by best-selling novelist Jo Nesbo, Occupied tackles very modern neuroses such as climate change while raising uncomfortable memories of Norway’s Quisling government under Nazi rule. Available now   Gentefied This new bilingual Spanglish sitcom centres on the Morales cousins, three young Latinos who are chasing the American Dream while striving to save their immigrant grandfather’s taco shop from the rampant gentrification threatening to shake up their Los Angeles ’hood.  Executive-produced by America Ferrera (Ugly Betty), it’s a love letter to Latino culture and, if nothing else, will teach you to swear well next time you visit your local Mexican. From Friday   The Last Thing He Wanted With a cast including Anne Hathaway, Willem Dafoe, Toby Jones and Ben Affleck, it can’t go wrong, right? Actually, the film received only lukewarm reviews at Robert Redford’s Sundance film festival last month, but the stellar cast – and the fact the film is based on a Joan Didion novel – still makes it worth a look.  Hathaway plays a journalist who, while carrying out an errand for her ailing arms-dealer father, unwittingly becomes the subject of a major story tied up with the Iran-Contras affair of the Eighties. From Monday Contagion (Amazon) What could be propelling a 2011 Steven Soderbergh film up the movie rental charts now? It’s clearly not just Contagion’s stellar cast, which includes Matt Damon, Laurence Fishburne, Marion Cotillard and Jude Law. The first sound we hear, before there’s even a picture on the screen, is of someone coughing. Gwyneth Paltrow – now the high priestess of ‘wellness’ – is distinctly unwell.  Terminally so, in fact. She is one of the first victims of a pandemic that begins in Hong Kong and rapidly infects millions across the world, leading to a collapse of the social order within only a couple of weeks. Can a vaccine be developed? And if so, who should get it first?  The fictional MEV-1 virus is spread by touch – ‘The average person touches their face two or three thousand times a day,’ says Dr Erin Mears (Kate Winslet) – and it seems much deadlier than the strain of coronavirus that we’re currently battling. But that doesn’t make this fast-paced, chilling film any less plausible. Don’t forget to wash your hands. Amazon Video, £3.49 Neil Armstrong  BBC iPLAYER, ALL 4 & ITV The Truth Will Out Robert Gustafsson, the lead actor in this tense Swedish thriller, is a comedy star in his native country. But he’s a pretty impressive dramatic actor too.  Gustafsson plays detective Peter Wendel, who turns a mismatched group of police officers into a cold-case team to re-investigate a series of murders. Intriguingly, it’s inspired by a real-life miscarriage of justice. All 4/Walter Presents, available now   Fenix A violent turf war breaks out between rival drug gangs on the streets of a quiet Dutch town, and it’s up to the estranged offspring of their leaders to work together to bring peace to the area.  It’s a task that re-introduces them to aspects of their lives they’d rather forget – and it isn’t long before they remember why they were so desperate to leave their pasts behind them in the first place. All 4/Walter Presents, from Friday   Get Even A ten-part mystery thriller based on Gretchen McNeil’s novel about four teenage girls at an elite private school. Kitty, Margot, Bree and Olivia appear to have nothing in common, but they’re bound together by a common cause – to expose bullies.  Unfortunately, when one of their targets is found dead, the quartet realise they’re being framed for a crime they didn’t commit by somebody they’ve crossed in the past. But who? BBC iPlayer, available now   Fight Dirty Two Belfast households, total strangers to hygiene, take on the challenge of cleaning up each other’s grimy gaffs in this prank-laden pilot.  The Party Boys take on a mountain of rotting takeaways in a fly-infested kitchen and ‘the most disgusting underpants in Northern Ireland’, while The Partners In Grime must tackle a toilet that has been blocked for weeks.  With hacks such as harnessing the power of slugs to clean mould, this should appeal to everyone’s inner student. BBC iPlayer, available now   Stacey Dooley: On The Psych Ward The investigative reporter spends three weeks with the staff and patients at Springfield Hospital in London.  She aims to learn more about the pressures facing those on the frontline of mental-health services, and is thrown in at the deep end when confronted by just how difficult it is to make potentially life-changing decisions on behalf of young people struggling to cope. BBC iPlayer, from Wednesday   Seinfeld It was a huge hit in America, but this sitcom struggled to find an audience when it was first shown in Britain. But now there’s a chance to catch up with the self-styled ‘show about nothing’.  Stand-up comedian Jerry Seinfeld, who created the series with Curb Your Enthusiasm star Larry David, plays a fictionalised version of himself, while Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Jason Alexander are superb as his friends. All 4, seasons 1-4 available now (subsequent five seasons drop each Friday) on on Stan in Australia.   White House Farm The six-part drama has just ended on ITV, but here’s a chance to catch the entire series. Freddie Fox is chillingly believable as Jeremy Bamber, who was convicted of killing five members of his family.  Much attention is paid to the botched police investigation, with Stephen Graham playing the detective in charge of the case and the wonderful Mark Addy as the veteran copper determined to see justice done. ITV Hub, available now   SKY/NOW & BRITBOX Ray Donovan In the seventh and final series of the cult hit we see Donovan (Liev Schreiber) struggling more than ever to balance his job – fixing wealthy clients’ problems – with the needs of his family. He also has to contend with manipulative father Mickey, a role played by Jon Voight, who deservedly picked up a Golden Globe and an Emmy for his brilliant portrayal of the unscrupulous gangster. NOW TV/Sky On Demand, from Friday, or on Stan in Australia.   Three Girls Africa With Ade Adepitan The Lagos-born Paralympian makes for an engaging travel companion on this four-part voyage: from a former slave-trade post in Senegal to booming Addis Ababa, he’s never far from a memorable and often moving experience on the road. BBC iPlayer, ends Tuesday  In this age of The Masked Singer it’s easy to forget that TV can be a medium for important issues – until such a gut-wrenching series as this comes along.  Moving, disturbing and utterly compelling, it’s told through the eyes of three victims of the Rochdale child-abuse sex ring, paying attention to how they and the sexual-health worker fighting for them were ignored by the authorities.  Molly Windsor won a Bafta for her performance as one of the trio; Maxine Peake, Ria Zmitrowicz and Liv Hill co-star. BritBox, from Thursday   Tracey Ullman’s Show Ullman returned to the BBC more than 30 years after breakout hits A Kick Up The Eighties (with Rik Mayall) and Three Of A Kind (with Lenny Henry) for three sketch series from 2016-18.  Series two, in particular, showcased her satirical bent, including a singing Angela Merkel and a megalomaniac Nicola Sturgeon, while not forgetting the star of series one, a delinquent Dame Judi Dench.  With a huge prosthetics budget, a team of writers from Veep and The League Of Gentlemen and quality guest spots, this packed quite a punch. BritBox, from Thursday, or on Stan in Australia.   Sacred Lies Among the best of Facebook’s dramas is the first series of Sacred Lies, still available, which focuses on a teenager raised in a cult. The second run, subtitled The Singing Bones, tells the story of a young woman’s attempts to locate her family. Juliette Lewis, Ryan Kwanten and Jordan Alexander head the cast. Facebook Watch, from Friday   FILMS  Terminator: Dark Fate Well, he said he’d be back. But it’s not Arnold Schwarzenegger as the Terminator who utters the famous line here but Linda Hamilton as Sarah Connor, the focus of this return to the sci-fi franchise, which picks up where Judgment Day left off.  A future war between machines and men is still raging. From that future comes Gabriel Luna as robot Rev-9, out to liquidate young Natalia Reyes and bionic fighter Grace (Mackenzie Davis), who teams up with Connor.  Cue explosive action, pithy one-liners, relentless fight sequences and, eventually, a grizzled-looking Arnie. Sky Store/Rakuten, from Monday   Doctor Sleep As a boy, Dan Torrance (Ewan McGregor) was traumatised by events at the Overlook Hotel as depicted in The Shining. Now, his peaceful life is shattered when he’s contacted by fellow psychic Abra (Kyliegh Curran), a teenager who has attracted the attention of a band of vampires led by Rose the Hat (Rebecca Ferguson). The showdown takes place at the demonic Overlook. Rakuten, from Monday  Black And Blue British actress and sometime Miss Moneypenny Naomie Harris dominates this corrupt-cops thriller as Alicia West, a principled rookie policewoman who’s forced to go on the run when her body cam captures the killing of a drug dealer by a fellow officer.  Amid the shoot-outs and car chases, a stream of racial tension runs through the film: West and the community she hides out in are black, but when the dead drug dealer’s boss, also black, puts a bounty on her head, West quickly runs out of friends. Rakuten, from Monday    Not sure how to watch on demand TV? Read our ultimate guide here 
