climate change
{ By Claire Allfree For The Daily Mail   Published:  22:02, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//home/books/article-8001277/LITERARY-FICTION.html }
WEATHER  by Jenny Offill (Granta £12.99, 224 pp) Feeling worried about climate change has now been recognised as a legitimate mental health issue. If you suffer from it, you might find Jenny Offill's excellent third novel tips you over the edge. It's narrated, if that's the word for a novel as fragmented as this, by Lizzie Benson, a Brooklyn-based librarian and mother of one whose former college professor, Sylvia, is behind a series of popular podcasts preoccupied with the coming apocalypse. 'But hasn't the world always been going to hell in a handbasket?' Lizzie asks her, and is not reassured at all by Sylvia's reply. Lizzie also has her husband and son to worry about, her drug addict brother who has rashly embarked on a new family, nagging concerns about the health of her teeth and the horror of a newly elected maniac in the White House. Using her characteristic, epigrammatic prose style that's both jittery and deadpan at the same time, Offill presents us with a wryly funny state-of-the-nation novel wired to the hilt with a dread that'll infect your dreams. ACTRESS  by Anne Enright (Cape £16.99, 272 pp) Booker-winning Anne Enright excels at parsing the hidden fibres of family life but she comes a cropper with this frustrating biography of fictional famous Irish actress Katherine O'Dell, narrated by her daughter, Norah. Except, as Norah pointedly tells us early on, her mother was born in London and acquired the apostrophe in her surname in America; even the red of her hair was fake. Yet Ireland enthusiastically claimed her as its own and dazzling Katherine happily allowed herself to be claimed, in a career that began as a child star in 1940s Dublin before slowly fading away as age, alcohol and men's treachery caught up with her. The real story trying to be heard, however, is that of Norah herself who, left in the slipstream of her mother's fame and, later on, her madness, never knew her father and who, for all their evident closeness, never really knew her mother, either. Enright writes with insight and compassion on an industry that loves to chew up and spit out the female body, but Norah's loving act of testimony to her mother's life struggles to acquire its own power. AMNESTY  by Aravind Adiga (Picador £16.99, 272 pp) Danny is an illegal immigrant from Sri Lanka working as a cleaner and living in the back room of a grocery store in Sydney when he hears on the radio that one of his former clients, Radha, has been found murdered beside a creek. Immediately he suspects his client's lover might be behind the crime, and so begins an unusual game of cat-and-mouse over the course of a single day in which both men, each in possession of potentially incriminating knowledge about the other, threaten, taunt and try to outwit each other as the police close in on their suspect. Slipping between flashbacks of Danny's past life in Sri Lanka and his four fugitive years in Australia, Adiga, author of Booker-winning The White Tiger, depicts extremely well his haunted, determined state of mind as an ambitious young man desperate to stand up and be counted and, at the same time, not be noticed at all. The plot is digressive, sometimes frustratingly so, and there's an implied epic grandeur to the men's relationship that never feels fully justified, but Danny's voice, in its sheer everyday ordinariness, will stay with you a long time. To buy any book reviewed here, visit mailshop.co.uk or call 01603 648155  
