climate change
{ By Hayley Richardson For Mailonline and Monica Greep For Mailonline   Published:  20:21, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8001579/Meghan-Markle-gives-British-Vogues-Edward-Enninful-surprise-unseen-video.html }
Meghan Markle is seen in fits of giggles in a candid snap shared by British Vogue editor Edward Enninful from behind-the-scenes of their Forces for Change issue last year. The Duchess of Sussex, 38, 'surprised' Enninful with an impromptu celebration to mark their collaboration on the September edition in an unseen video shared last night. She handed the fashion designer a sparkly party hat and horns as a thank you for agreeing to let her be the first ever guest editor of the magazine. In the two-and-a-half minute clip posted to the Sussex Royal Instagram page, the duo called up the women Meghan selected to be on her front cover. Enninful also praised the duchess for her 'editor's eye', claiming: 'I've never seen anything like it. You were so thorough from beginning to end.' The video, which was filmed in London in August last year, begins with Enninful revealing he received a text from Meghan asking him to help her with her Smart Works project. He recalled being 'so excited' as he walked into Kensington Palace, to which Meghan replied: 'Oh my gosh.' Enninful said: 'I was like, "Lovely to meet you, Duchess." And you were like... "Call me Meghan!" After he agreed to work with her on her charity project, Meghan told how she decided to see if she could 'push it just a little bit more' and ask him if he was willing to let her guest edit an edition of Vogue.  Enninful praised the duchess for her attention to detail, gushing: 'You have an editor's eye, I've never seen anything like it. You were so thorough from beginning to end.' Meghan admitted that she left the fashion element 'to the professionals', adding: 'I did say, "Can you do Commonwealth fashion?" "Can you do sustainability?" "Can we make sure the point of view is really in the right ethos?" And then I'll leave it to the experts.' Enninful replied: 'You wanted to focus on women who are changing the world, women who are doing incredible things, which really is in line with what we do at British Vogue.' The duchess told how one of the elements of the September edition of British Vogue, which sold out in 10 days and was the biggest selling issue of the past decade, was its eye-catching mirror front cover. 'Having the mirror - anyone, no matter who they are, picking up this issue, should be able to see themself in it, and that's what I feel really proud that we've accomplished,' Meghan said. At that point, the former actress revealed she had a 'surprise' for Enninful, to congratulate him for bringing her vision to life. She then handed him a bright red glittering had before placing a silver mini top hat on her own head. The duo then blew their party horns before collapsing into giggles. Meghan selected 15 'trailblazers' and 'changemakers' to appear on her front cover. The line-up of women she admires included celebrities, politicians and activists known for championing issues such as diversity, body positivity, transgender rights and climate change. In the video, the duo call up several women - with Meghan admitting her first choice was Yara Shahidi. 'I kid you not the very first name that I said I wanted on the cover was you,' she told the 19-year-old US actor and model who launched Eighteenx18, a movement to encourage voter turnout. Meghan and Enninful also called up Laverne Cox, Sinead Burke, Francesca Hayward, Adut Akech and Adwoa Aboah, who exclaimed: 'What a f*****g great project!' Meghan told Adut: 'Just know that we are so so proud to have you on the cover.' Meanwhile Jane Fonda had some kind words for the duchess, exclaiming: 'Meghan I'm so proud of you for using your amazing platform and your strong voice, and I'm so honoured to be a part of it with those other amazing women, thank you so much for including me.' Earlier this year Meghan and Prince Harry, 35, quit as senior members of the Royal Family and are currently residing in Canada, planning to split their time between British and the US.  Meghan's role as guest editor represents one of the most radical moves in Vogue's 100-year history, with the magazine saying it considers the new September issue to be its most important edition of its year. The cover of the magazine showed various inspirational women, but left one box blank, with only a mirror, showing readers that they too can make a difference in the world.    The duchess, a former actress and avowed feminist, had initially been asked to appear on the cover herself. But Vogue's editor-in-chief Edward Enninful said Meghan refused as she thought it would appear too 'boastful'. Instead the duchess wanted to focus on the 'women she admires' from the 'frontline of fashion, film, tech and wellness'.  In a statement, Meghan said: 'Through this lens I hope you'll feel the strength of the collective in the diverse selection of women chosen for the cover as well as the team of support I called upon within the issue to help bring this to light. 'I hope readers feel as inspired as I do, by the forces for change they'll find within these pages.'  Meghan also selected content for the issue which, according to Enninful, shows she is willing to wade into issues of 'female empowerment, mental health, race or privilege'.  Enninful, who has been the editor-in-chief of the magazine for the last two years, told in July how he has always had 'profound respect' for the duchess - before discussing why he thinks she is the ultimate force for change. Speaking on a personal note, he wrote: 'I can't overstate how much it meant to me to see HRH The Duke of Sussex marry this brilliant, bi-racial, American powerhouse.' 'I simply never imagined that, in my lifetime, someone of my colour would – or could – enter the highest echelons of our Royal Family.'  While many royal watchers at the time thought the decision was too political for a then member of the Royal Family, who are supposed to stay politically neutral, Meghan revealed it was her who reached out to Enninful.  Meghan, who at the time was five months' pregnant with son Archie, said: 'So I asked the question. Actually, I typed and deleted the question several times until I built up the courage to ask the question in question: "Instead of doing the cover, would you be open to me guest editing your September issue?"' Enninful replied that he would 'love' for Meghan to be his guest editor, she said.  The Duchess of Sussex said she has 'no fear of depths but a great fear of shallow living' after it was announced she is to guest edit an edition of British Vogue. In a letter to readers posted on the magazine's website, Meghan said she hopes she has created a magazine of 'positivity, kindness, humour and inclusivity'. She claims in the missive that she set out to produce a publication of 'both substance and levity' with its editor in chief Edward Enninful, who revealed the duchess thought it would be 'boastful' to be the magazine's cover star herself. The Duchess also warned that although her guiding hand will be felt on most pages of next month's edition, it will contain traditional elements like adverts. She writes in her guest editor's letter how just a few hours after meeting Enninful she summoned up the nerve to quiz him about taking on the September edition - an important issue as it is published just before the autumn/winter fashion season. Meghan, who at the time was five months' pregnant with son Archie, said: 'So I asked the question. Actually, I typed and deleted the question several times until I built up the courage to ask the question in question: 'Edward... instead of doing the cover, would you be open to me guest editing your September issue?' The editor's reply that he would 'love' for Meghan to be his guest editor set her on a journey where she said she immersed herself in magazine life, from learning technical terms like FoB - front of book - to holding regular meetings with staff to plan the issue. The former actress said about her edition: 'The overall sentiment I hope you'll find, however, will be one of positivity, kindness, humour and inclusivity.' And she describes her interview with the 'extraordinary' former US first lady Michelle Obama as 'a candid and heartfelt conversation'. Fifteen women who inspire the duchess were chosen as cover stars in a 16-photo grid, with a small mirror also featured on the front so each reader could be included in the tagline Forces For Change. Baroness Doreen Lawrence, the mother of murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence, is not on the front cover, but appears in a picture that accompanies Meghan's letter. Another picture features the Duke of Sussex sitting with chimpanzee expert Dr Jane Goodall after Meghan commissioned her husband to interview the ethologist and primatologist for her issue. The duchess goes on to say: 'But more than anything, this issue is about the power of the collective. 'In identifying our personal strengths, it is anchored in the knowledge that we are even stronger together. You will find that spirit of inclusivity on the cover: diverse portraiture of women of varying age, colour, creed, nationality and life experience, and of unquestionable inspiration. 'Some, I've had the pleasure of meeting and enlisted personally for this issue, others I've admired from afar for their commitment to a cause, their fearlessness in breaking barriers, or what they represent simply by being. 'These are our forces for change. And among all of these strong women on the cover, a mirror - a space for you, the reader, to see yourself. Because you, too, are part of this collective.' Meghan revealed the philosophy that guided her guest editorship of the fashion bible Vogue was a quote from the book The Four-Chambered Heart by Anais Nin, based on the author's relationship with a lover. The female protagonist Djuna tells her partner Rango, the duchess writes: 'I must be a mermaid, Rango. I have no fear of depths and a great fear of shallow living.' Meghan writes: 'For this issue, I imagined, 'why would we swim in the shallow end of the pool when we could go to the deep end?' A metaphor for life, as well as for this issue. Let's be braver. Let's go a bit deeper. 'That's what Edward and I have aimed to achieve. An issue of both substance and levity.'     Meghan Markle is using her time away from life as a senior royal to go back to college - and she's taking Prince Harry with her. According to royal sources, the couple paid a visit to the prestigious Stanford University in Palo Alto, California, on Tuesday, having taken a commercial flight from Canada, where they are currently living with their son Archie. As reported by the Today show, Harry, 35, and Meghan, 38, are said to have attended 'brainstorming sessions' with several 'professors and academics' from the university, who have been helping them to work on the concept and creation of their new charitable organization. On Wednesday, DailyMail.com exclusively reported that Harry and Meghan are still weighing up their options as far as their decision to settle down, with Malibu, New York City, and Vancouver all in the running as potential home bases. However, this is understood to be the first visit to California that the couple has made together in some time, although it is not known whether the couple took baby Archie with them on the trip, or whether they chose to stay on the West Coast in order to spend time with Meghan's mother Doria, who lives in Los Angeles - a six-hour drive away from Stanford. Upon their arrival at the campus, Harry and Meghan 'were personally greeted by Marc Tessier-Lavigne, the university's president', before attending 'brainstorming sessions' with staff members who are helping them 'with their ongoing work to establish a new charitable organization'. When the couple first announced their plans to step back from senior royal life they made mention of their plans to launch a new charity, writing on their website that their decision to split their time between North America and the UK would help them in this endeavor. 'This geographic balance will enable us to raise our son with an appreciation for the royal tradition into which he was born, while also providing our family with the space to focus on the next chapter, including the launch of our new charitable entity,' they wrote. It is unclear what role the Stanford professors and academics have within this new entity, nor have Harry and Meghan made clear exactly what cause, or causes, the organization will focus on. DailyMail.com has reached out to Stanford University for comment. Interestingly, Meghan did not choose to visit her alma mater - Northwestern University in Illinois - for the brainstorming session, which raises further questions about whether the couple's visit to California saw them sewing seeds for a more permanent set-up on the West Coast. Prince Harry did not attend a university in the UK, but instead went to the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, where he began his military career in 2005.  The news comes just after it was reported that Prince Harry has been much happier since stepping down from his duties as as senior royal and moving to Canada. 'Harry's much happier in Canada and feels a lot more relaxed. So far he doesn't regret the move' a source told Us Weekly. They added that protecting his wife and young son was Harry's 'number one priority', and that he's happy that he's followed through. 
