climate change
{ By Chris Dyer For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:36, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8000785/James-Murdoch-goes-green-investing-proceeds-Disney-deal-biodegradable-container-business.html }
James Murdoch has used some of the $2 billion he netted from the sale of Fox to Disney to invest in green start up companies. Disney acquired 21st Century Fox and its various entertainment subsidiaries in a historic deal with the Murdoch family last March. After the sale, James Murdoch had initially been rumored for a position at Disney but now runs an investment firm and retains a board seat at the company. Now the majority of his family Fox empire has been sold to Disney, he has largely moved away from areas they still control. It emerged yesterday that Murdoch plans to invest in three climate initiatives, including two that develop non-plastic containers. The third is a climate-focused partnership involving the French and German governments that is overseen by BlackRock - the world's largest fund managing firm. One of the start-ups, called Notpla, produces dissolvable packaging used to give water pods to marathon runners. The company also makes dissoluble Scotch whisky pods. The other new environmental venture, called Cove, makes biodegradable water bottles.  Last October a video by whisky-makers Glenlivet, showing drinkers trying the new pods, was ridiculed on Twitter. Bizarre YouTube videos compared the new capsules to laundry Tide Pods and they were described as a 'parody' online.  Murdoch, son of media mogul Rupert, told the New York Times in a statement that he intends to go into green ventures after leaving his Fox days behind him. In 2006, Murdoch said he wanted to make Sky carbon neutral and championed sustainability projects.  During his time as deputy chief operating officer, the 47-year-old also helped pour hundreds of millions of dollars into the National Geographic Society's endowment.  Despite remaining on the board of Fox, Murdoch and and his activist wife Kathryn said last month they were 'disappointed' by the coverage of the Australian bush fires by Fox News and other News Corporation outlets.  They told The Daily Beast: 'Kathryn and James' views on climate are well established and their frustration with some of the News Corp and Fox coverage of the topic is also well known.  'They are particularly disappointed with the ongoing denial among the news outlets in Australia given obvious evidence to the contrary.'  This 'denial' refers to allegations that arson and not climate change are to blame for the bush fires, which have killed 27 people. The Murdochs' Australian newspapers and TV networks have been criticized for publishing stories and columns dismissing scientific opinion on climate change.  It is feared an estimated one billion animals are dead since the the raging blazes took hold across large swathes of the Murdoch family's homeland of Australia last year.  Kathryn, who grew up in Oregon, married into the Murdoch clan in 2000, and has three children with James. She served as Director of Strategy and Communications for the Clinton Climate Initiative from 2007 to 2011. 
