climate change
{ By Annabel Grossman For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:58, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8029899/Travel-skincare-essentials-Dermatologist-reveals-products-never-gets-plane-without.html }
Traveling can be a real nightmare for your skin.  Whether it's a dry complexion from stale plane air, an acne flare-up caused by cheap hotel products, or a bout of Rosacea triggered by the sun, skincare woes have a habit of rearing their ugly head once you leave home.  Which is why dermatologist Dr Marnie Nussbaum says it is so important to be properly prepared before you board a plane, no matter where you're headed off to.   'Traveling can wreak havoc on your skin if you are not properly prepared,' she tells DailyMail.com. 'An abrupt variation in your core skin care regimen can sometimes lead to breakouts, skin inflammation or even rashes.  'For example, when traveling, many patients forget their acne medications, change their routines as they decide to use miniature free samples they saved that have never been tried, or forgo any routine as their daily schedule is shifted.' Although it can be tempting to try out new products in miniature, your vacation is not the time to do this. In fact, the exact opposite is true as this is one of the times than consistency is crucial for skincare. Dr Nussbaum, who is a board-certified dermatologist based in New York City, stresses the importance of adhering to your skincare regimen as much as possible.   She says: 'Always look for travel size versions of tried and true daily products. If there are no travel sizes, transfer small amounts of product into travel containers that they sell at the drugstore or even contact lens cases.' Although Dr Nussbaum says that you don't need to feel guilty about forgoing essences, toners, and neck creams for a few days if you have limited space, there are certain products that you shouldn't leave behind.  Below she shares the key essentials, and reveals which products she personally uses when traveling. But as Dr Nussbaum points out, if you are going to switch up your routine and try new products it's best to test them out before you travel rather than risk unexpected flare-ups or unwanted reactions.  A gentle daily cleanser Dr Nussbaum cautions against using a hotel bar soap on your face as these are typically very alkaline, which can be extremely drying and strips the skin of its natural oils. Instead she recommends that you bring your own cleanser, such as Neutrogena's Ultra Gentle Daily Cleanser. She says: 'This gentle cleanser does not strip my skin of its natural oils yet gently cleanses and removes the day's grime as well as make up. I use it morning and night.' The  affordable cleanser is available at a number of major retailers including Amazon, Ulta and Target, as well as on Neutrogena's site.  An appropriate moisturizer  'Always take into account where you are traveling to,' Dr Nussbaum says. 'For instance, if traveling to a cold weather ski resort you may want to bring a thick moisturizer with you as well as lip balm and hand cream to protect your skin from the elements versus a beach vacation which would require lighter hydration in the form of a lotion or serum.' She personally likes CeraVe PM Moisturizing Lotion, which contains ceramides, hyaluronic acid and niacinamide, as it hydrates and minimizes redness without causing breakouts.   A hydrating sheet mask for the plane  'Planes can cause significant skin dehydration and dryness,' says Dr Nussbaum. 'Apply either a thick moisturizer prior to takeoff or a hydrating sheet mask.' The dermatologist suggests the SK-II Facial Treatment Mask. 'These masks contain PITERA, a yeast derived essence which provides intense hydration and a dewy glow,' she explains. A set of six masks costs $95 and they're available at a range of retailers including Sephora, Amazon and Nordstrom, as well as on SK-II's site. Under Eye gel patches and eye cream 'I have also been known to use hydrating undereye patches, undereye gels and facial mists throughout the flight to maintain hydration,' Dr Nussbaum says. She recommends Patchology: Under Eye gel patches, which provide intense hydration for the thin skin around the eyes and also depuff after a long plane ride or a bad night of sleep. If she has room for an eye cream, the dermatologist says she uses PCA Skin Ideal Complex Revitalizing Eye Gel. Travel-size vitamin C serum and a retinoid  Dr Nussbaum says she carries travel size samples of Skinceuticals Phloretin vitamin C serum, which she uses every morning to combat free radical damage and protect her skin. For a retinoid she uses travel size samples of SkinBetter AlphaRet Overnight Cream to reduce fine lines and provide gentle exfoliation. Elizabeth Arden 8 Hour Cream Elizabeth Arden 8 Hour Cream is a classic all-rounder that can be used for a range of skincare needs, from chapped lipped and dry cuticles to eyebrows and grazed knees. Dr Nussbaum says: 'I use this on my lips, hands and cuticles for dry skin as well as dry patches on my body and in a pinch around my eyes if I can't fit an eye cream.'  Sunscreen with broad spectrum SPF Whether you are in a hot or cold climate, sunscreen is essential. Dr Nussbaum likes Supergoop's ZincScreen 100% Mineral Lotion, which has a zinc oxide formula to help protect skin from UV rays, blue light, infrared radiation, and pollution. She adds: 'It's also slightly tinted with a skin-brightening pigment that masks the mineral sunscreen actives so there is no white residue upon application.' Dr Nussbaum is also a fan of Sun Bum's SPF 30 Sunscreen Face Stick, which contains broad spectrum SPF with Vitamin E 'for when you need a quick swipe of sunscreen across your face'. Dry Shampoo  'You never know if you won't have time to wash your hair due to flight delays or travel itinerary,' says Dr Nussbaum. Certain dry shampoos can leave your hair feeling dusty and brittle, but Dr Nussbaum recommends trying The One by Frederic Fekkai One More Day Dry Shampoo. '[It] leaves my hair feeling fresh and never heavy,' she adds. Hand Sanitizer  'When traveling you must sanitize!' says Dr Nussbaum. 'Especially on the plane, which can be a hotbed of bacteria and germs.' She suggests using EO Lavender Hand Sanitizer, which is available in a variety of sizes and you can find both on the brand's website and on Amazon. The dermatologist explains: '[It's] less drying than traditional alcohol-based sanitizers and is a beautiful scent if someone is eating something unpleasant next to you on the plane!'  Pack a spare old T-shirt: 'Many people develop rashes or acne on their face from sleeping on hotel pillow cases,' Dr Nussbaum says. 'This may be the result of an allergic or irritant contact dermatitis from the laundry detergent.' She suggests using a T-shirt to cover the pillowcase to reduce inflammation. Invest in a personal humidifier: This may sound excessive, but Dr Nussbaum says these devices can be a lifesaver for dry skin. 'Airplanes and hotel rooms tend to have dry air which will dehydrate skin while sleeping,' she explains. 'Plug in a personal humidifier to rehydrate and maintain hydration. Remember emergency essentials: Alongside your beauty products, Dr Nussbaum suggest adding a few extras to your makeup bag: an antibiotic cream for minor cuts and scrapes, a topical steroid for bug bites or sunburns and an acne spot treatment for the unwanted occasional acne cyst.  DailyMail.com may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.       
