{ By Harriet Johnston For Mailonline   Published:  12:58, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7999775/Boris-Johnsons-father-Stanley-says-hopes-brilliant-Camilla-doesnt-change-Megxit.html }
Boris Johnson's father Stanley has said he hopes the Duchess of Cornwall doesn't change her 'brilliant personality' as she comes under pressure to step up her royal role after Megxit. The I'm A Celebrity star, 79, from London, appeared on This Morning to discuss news stories from the past few days, when he heaped praise on the 'wonderful' Camilla, 72.   When Phillip Schofield questioned if Camilla, Prince Charles, 71, Kate Middleton, 38, and Prince William, 37, were the new 'Fab Four' after Megxit, Stanley said: 'I don't think I would want Camilla to change very much, I think her personality is wonderful.' The nickname was originally used to describe the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry, 35, and Meghan Markle, 38, before their respective households divided.  Stanley joined Holly and Phil, as well as actress Nicola Thorp, to discuss Camilla's work in domestic abuse following the royal's Clarence House charity reception last night. Introducing the topic, Phil said: 'The Duchess of Cornwall has said she has friends who are victims of violence and coercive control. She has said, "No one knows what goes on behind closed doors, it affects everybody, no matter who you are." 'For her to say, "I know people" in the circles she mixes in, it goes to show it could be anybody.'   Nicola said: 'It absolutely could be anybody. It's not just women who are victims of domestic violence. It's amazing she is putting her voice to this and breaking down that stigma.'  Stanley explained: 'I think it's brilliant. I think Camilla is actually a brilliant lady. 'She can come across tremendously well, and when she gets hold of a subject like that, it really brings attention to it.' Phillip asked: 'They have always been very active, obviously, in the work that they do for charities.  'But in the past few days, with Megxit, we've seen the Prince of Wales and the Duchess and the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge come together as a new "Fab Four".'  But while Stanley called it 'an interesting idea', he explained: 'I don't think I would want Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall, to change very much, I think her personality is wonderful.' He went on to explain that he had met the Duchess in the past, saying: 'She came in, and she said, "Oh I so much enjoyed your book", can you imagine?' 'I just thought she must have been heavily briefed. I just thought it was absolutely wonderful. It was a book I'd just written called Stanley, I presume.' He went on to say the Duchess had asked him to 'send another' and he had later sent her his second memoir 'Stanley I resume'.   He added: 'On the Fab Four, they do everything right. Prince Charles has been 40 years ahead of his time on architecture, climate change. Look at the others, following in their footsteps.'  Stanley's comments come as Prince Charles and Camilla joined Prince William and Kate in their first joint appearance in nine years earlier this week.  The royals visited the new Defence Medical Rehabilitation Centre (DMRC) in Loughborough, with some suggestions the group had become a new 'Fab Four'. The name was originally used to describe Prince William, Kate Middleton, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle before a rift developed between the two couples. Harry and Meghan split from the Cambridges' Kensington Palace household, setting up their own at Buckingham Palace in the spring, with a separate head of communications and SussexRoyal Instagram account. And just 15 months after Harry and Meghan made their first appearance to promote the Royal Foundation charity with the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge they decided to break away.  They are currently holed up with their nine-month-old son Archie at a $14 million waterfront Vancouver Island mansion after announcing their bombshell news that they would be 'stepping back' as 'senior royals' in early January.  
