climate change
{ By James Tapsfield, Political Editor For Mailonline and Jack Maidment, Deputy Political Editor For Mailonline and David Wilcock, Whitehall Correspondent For Mailonline   Published:  08:57, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7999095/Boris-Johnson-vows-bring-new-generation-reshuffle.html }
Chancellor: Rishi Sunak  Foreign Secretary: Dominic Raab  Home Secretary: Priti Patel  Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster: Michael Gove  Justice Secretary: Robert Buckland  Defence Secretary: Ben Wallace  Health Secretary: Matt Hancock  Business Secretary: Alok Sharma  Trade Secretary: Liz Truss  Work and Pensions Secretary: Therese Coffey  Education Secretary: Gavin Williamson  Environment Secretary: George Eustice  Housing Secretary: Robert Jenrick  Transport Secretary: Grant Shapps  Culture Secretary: Oliver Dowden  International Development Secretary: Anne-Marie Trevelyan  Leader of the House of Lords: Baroness Evans of Bowes Park  Northern Ireland Secretary: Brandon Lewis  Scottish Secretary: Alister Jack  Welsh Secretary: Simon Hart   Attorney General: Suella Braverman Chief Secretary to the Treasury: Stephen Barclay  Minister without Portfolio: Amanda Milling  Paymaster General: Penny Mordaunt  Chief Whip: Mark Spencer  Furious Sajid Javid today insisted no 'self-respecting' minister would have obeyed Dominic Cummings' order to sack his aides - after he quit as Chancellor throwing the reshuffle into chaos. Mr Javid broke cover after sending shockwaves through Westminster by falling on his sword over Mr Cummings' plot for a 'bonfire' of all special advisers who will not meekly fall into line. Speaking to reporters outside his London home tonight, Mr Javid said Boris Johnson had told him that to stay in government he must accept the replacement of all his five-strong team. At that point he said he had no choice but to resign: 'I don't believe any self-respecting minister would accept those conditions.'  In a letter to the PM setting out his reasons, Mr Javid said it was 'crucial' for leaders to have people around who would give them 'candid advice, as I have always sought to do'. 'I also believe that it is important as leaders to have trusted teams that reflect the character and integriity that you would wish to be associated with,' he added in a stinging rebuke.  Despite smiling broadly for the cameras as he walked into Downing Street at 10.30am, Mr Javid was then blindsided by Mr Johnson with the ultimatum during a private meeting. An incensed Mr Javid responded that would make him 'Chancellor in name only'. Although Mr Cummings was not in the room during fraught discussions with Mr Johnson, sources said it was 'obvious' who was behind the move. Following more than an hour of frantic wrangling behind closed doors, Mr Javid finally quit in protest, derailing what had appeared to be a smooth overhaul of ministers. Within minutes, Chief Secretary to the Treasury Rishi Sunak had entered No10 to be installed in Mr Javid's place, marking another step in a very rapid rise through the ranks.  The new Chancellor paid tribute to Mr Javid tonight, tweeting: 'My predecessor and good friend Saj did a fantastic job in his time at the Treasury.  'He was a pleasure to work with and I hope to be able to build on his great work going forward.' Downing Street sources suggested they were 'surprised and disappointed' by the resignation. The PM's spokesman said: 'The Prime Minister thanks Sajid Javid for his work as Chancellor of the Exchequer... Rishi Sunak will take forward preparations for the Budget as the new Chancellor of the Exchequer... 'The reshuffle is about setting the foundations for government now and in the future.'  But the extraordinary spat - less than a month before the crucial Budget - is a huge blow for the PM, who was not plotting any changes at the very top of government today, despite wielding the knife on a host of veteran Cabinet ministers. It follows a wave of vicious briefing that had thrown relations between No10 and No11 into the deep freeze, and increasing alarm even from allies of Mr Cummings that his war on the system has gone too far and could destabilise the government.   Anne-Marie Trevelyan - International Development Secretary Anne-Marie Trevelyan was widely tipped for a promotion to the Cabinet long before today's reshuffle. She was made a junior defence minister at the end of July last year when Boris Johnson became PM but was always expected to eventually be elevated to the Tory top team. Her profile in Parliament was boosted in 2018 and 2019 as she helped lead the Tory Eurosceptic attack on Theresa May's Brexit deal. She quit a junior role in Mrs May's government in November 2018 in protest over the withdrawal agreement struck with Brussels. And the 50-year-old went onto become a senior member of the European Research Group of anti-EU Conservative MPs.  Oliver Dowden - Culture Secretary Nicknamed 'Olive', Oliver Dowden was plucked from relative political obscurity and elevated to the Cabinet by Boris Johnson last year as he was made Paymaster General. He got the moniker when he worked as a fixer for David Cameron when the latter was in Number 10. The 40-year-old father of two represents the Hurtsmere seat in Herfordshire, the area where he was born and raised. He was state educated before winning a place at Cambridge to study law. Mr Dowden worked for the Conservative Party and then in public relations before returning to become a special adviser and then Mr Cameron's deputy chief of staff.  Suella Braverman - Attorney General Suella Braverman's elevation to the Cabinet at just 39 will strengthen pro-Brexit voices at the top table. Before entering parliament Ms Braverman was a barrister. She has been the Tory MP for Fareham in Hampshire since 2015.  She served as the chair of the European Research Group of Eurosceptic Tory MPs between June 2017 and January 2018. Ms Braverman joined Theresa May's government first as a junior treasury aide and then as a Brexit minister in January 2018. However, she opposed Mrs May's EU divorce deal and quit in protest at the agreement in November 2018. Alok Sharma - Business Secretary and COP26 president An ardent and long-time supporter of Boris Johnson, Alok Sharma has enjoyed growing prominence in Westminster ever since the former took power.   He was initially elevated to the Cabinet last year when Mr Johnson became PM as he was handed the International Development brief.  But today's move represents a significant step up the pecking order for Mr Sharma who was frequently sent out to bat for Mr Johnson during the Tory leadership campaign.  The 52 year-old only started his ministerial career in July 2016. He had a relatively low profile in Theresa May's government but did hit the headlines when he was housing minister in the wake of the Grenfell Tower fire.  Steve Barclay - Chief Secretary to the Treasury Mr Barclay rose to prominence as the Brexit Secretary but saw that job abolished on January 31 when the UK finally left the EU.  He was widely expected to return to the Cabinet in the reshuffle but the fact he has come back as a high ranking minister rather than as a secretary of state does represent a demotion and will raise eyebrows.  He was relatively unknown when he originally took the Brexit Secretary role but he grew into the role and has been one of Mr Johnson's most loyal supporters.  Brandon Lewis - Northern Ireland Secretary The 48-year-old father of two was handed a promotion today as he went from Security Minister to Northern Ireland Secretary.  A former policing, housing and immigration minister he was privately educated and became a barrister before becoming MP for Great Yarmouth in 2010. He notably oversaw the Tories' disastrous 2017 general election campaign while he served as Conservative Party chairman.  He was moved as party chairman at the reshuffle last July when Mr Johnson took power. George Eustice - Environment Secretary  George Eustice moves up to take the top job in the Department for the Environment, Farming and Rural Affairs after serving as its number two minister since last year. The 48-year-old Brexiteers has been the Tory MP for Camborne and Redruth since 2010 and was appointed Food Minister by David Cameron in 2015. Before entering politics he previously worked for his family's strawberry farming business in Cornwall, and says his family has lived and worked in the area of his constituency for 400 years. A keen Brexiteer who supported the Vote Leave campaign, he previously campaigned against joining the Euro before becoming an MP. He stood as a Ukip European election candidate in 1999 before switching parties and was the Conservatives' head of press under Michael Howard.  There had been clashes over claims the Chancellor had tried to 'bounce' Mr Johnson into giving the go-ahead for HS2, and complaints that the PM's aides were trying to take over writing the Budget.  Mr Javid was also accused of resisting Mr Cummings' push for a huge infrastructure splurge, insisting on tougher spending controls. The Pound rose sharply after the resignation today, as markets concluded that the purse strings are likely to be loosened. Mr Cummings previously infuriated Mr Javid last summer by summarily firing one of his advisers and having her frogmarched out of Downing Street.  In contrast to the resistance from the former Chancellor, Justice Secretary Robert Buckland accepted his special adviser Peter Cardwell being axed. Others are also being 'repurposed' to other departments, away from their previous ministers. A Spad meeting has been called for 8.30am tomorrow, with fears that many more could be culled. 'Nothing is impossible with this No10,' one adviser told MailOnline. Mr Javid becomes the shortest-serving Chancellor in 50 years, at just 204 days. The son of Pakistani immigrants, he was the first holder of the office to come from a muslim background.  Mr Sunak is the first Hindu to serve as Chancellor and one of the youngest holders of the post in modern politics. Earlier, Andrea Leadsom, Esther McVey and Theresa Villiers lost their seats around the top table in a quick-fire series of sackings, with the PM vowing to bring through a new generation. Northern Ireland Secretary Julian Smith was also ousted - just weeks after a breakthrough that saw powersharing restored in the province - along with Attorney General Geoffrey Cox.  Mr Smith confirmed his departure on Twitter saying serving in the job had been the 'biggest privilege'.   His fate is believed to be linked to his chilling warnings about the consequences of No Deal Brexit last Autumn. Mrs Leadsom, who insiders claim irritated No10 aides by arguing at Cabinet, said she was proud to have been in government for six years, and would now 'focus on my constituents'.  She took her staff out for a champagne lunch to thank them for their hard work after learning that her time in government had ended.  Ms McVey said she was 'very sorry' to have been relieved of her duties as housing minister.  Ms Villiers made light of her fate on Facebook, joking that 'what the PM giveth the PM taketh away'.  Meanwhile, Mr Cox delivered a thinly-veiled rebuke, pointing out that he had introduced Mr Johnson at his Tory leadership launch and been a loyal Brexiteer.  However, until the bombshell news from Mr Javid, the cull had not been as bloody as initially suggested. Defence Secretary Ben Wallace appears to have saved his skin despite speculation he could be departing. Bad news was handed out to ministers behind closed doors this morning, in a series of one-on-one meetings in the PM's Commons office. The next phase was meant to be the triumphant procession of ministers in Downing Street who were either being kept in post or promoted. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, Home Secretary Priti Patel and Brexit minister Michael Gove are staying in their previous jobs. But the confrontation with Mr Javid threw the process into turmoil.  Mr Javid's five-strong team of advisers have automatically been sacked, as their jobs are tied to his. The Chancellor's team includes Mats Persson, a former head of the Open Europe think-tank and adviser to David Cameron - the ex-PM who once described Mr Cummings as 'career psychopath'.  Other aides include Samuel Coates, who previously worked at ConservativeHome, and media adviser Tim Sculthorpe.  A meal from Five Guys was delivered to Mr Javid's house as they mulled their response to the furore today. There is speculation Mr Javid could do a interview spelling out his views on the No10 operation.  Today's ultimatum to Mr Javid to sack his closest team and accept aides answering to Mr Cummings is the culmination of a naked power grab by the maverick strategy chief. Special advisers - known as Spads - have long acted as the voice of their ministers, representing their interests and determined to protect them and foster their careers. But No10 is determined that the loyalty of Spads should be to Mr Johnson alone.  Mr Cummings has been especially furious at the Treasury over a serious of briefings and leaks he blamed on 'rogue' operatives in No11. Flashpoints have included the Budget in March, a 'mansion tax' and Mr Javid's determination to push ahead with the HS2 rail link. It follows the unsavoury incident last year when his adviser Sonia Khan was summarily fired by Mr Cummings and frogmarched out of Downing Street for allegedly being in contact with friends of former Chancellor Philip Hammond.  The move left Mr Javid 'absolutely furious' but No10 tried to defuse the row by insisting that reports of a rift between him and Mr Johnson were 'grossly exaggerated'.   Mr Buckland's adviser Peter Cardwell - who previously worked for James Brokenshire and Amber Rudd - also emerged as a casualty of the 'bonfire of Spads'.  'Sadly, in reshuffles Special Advisers sometimes do not survive, and after three-and-a-half wonderful years I am leaving Government,' he tweeted.  'I wish the Johnson administration and everyone in it all the very best.'  Mr Javid and his successor Mr Sunak developed something of a 'bromance' at the Treasury Only in December, Mr Sunak - a big Star Wars fan - tweeted about their outing to see The Rise of Skywalker.  'Great night out with the boss - Jedi Master @sajidjavid,' he tweeted alongside a picture of them arm-in-arm.  No10 hoped the new Cabinet line-up would be largely complete by this afternoon.   There had been rumours that Anne-Marie Trevelyan could replace her current boss Mr Wallace, but she has been made International Development Secretary. Alok Sharma vacated that role to become Business Secretary, He has also been made minister for the COP26 UN climate change summit which is due to be held in Glasgow in November but has descended into a state of shambles in recent weeks following the sacking of ex-Tory minister Claire Perry O'Neill as its president.  Oliver Dowden has taken over as Culture Secretary from Baroness Morgan, who stood down to spend more time with her family, and George Eustice is the new Environment Secretary. Brexiteer Suella Braverman has succeeded Mr Cox as Attorney General.  MPs believe Steve Barclay, whose Cabinet job was abruptly abolished along with the Brexit department when the UK left the EU last month, will make a comeback.  Julian Smith said on Twitter: 'Serving the people of Northern Ireland has been the biggest privilege.  I am extremely grateful to @BorisJohnson for giving me the chance to serve this amazing part of our country. The warmth & support from people across NI has been incredible.  Thank you so much.'  DUP leader Arlene Foster paid tribute to Mr Smith for his 'incredible' contribution to restoring devolution in Northern Ireland.  She tweeted: 'Spoke with @JulianSmithUK a short time ago to thank him for his help in getting devolution restored. Sajid Javid has quit as chancellor little more than six months into the role and just under a month before he was to deliver his first Budget. His shock decision came after he refused to sack his advisers, a source close to the former home secretary said. Tensions between Number 10 and Number 11 had been simmering since Mr Javid's adviser Sonia Khan was escorted out of Downing Street by police officers after being sacked by Boris Johnson's closest aide Dominic Cummings in August last year. Appointed in July to Mr Johnson's first Cabinet, his first planned Budget in November was cancelled as the Prime Minister pursued a snap election and Mr Javid would have been preparing for the parliamentary set-piece scheduled for March 11. He is the shortest-serving chancellor since Iain Macleod, who died shortly after taking office in 1970, according to the Institute for Government. In public, he identifies as the son of a bus driver, whose father arrived in England from Pakistan in the 1960s with just a pound in his pocket, and to colleagues, he is The Saj. He was a tough-talking home secretary whose hard stance on jihadi bride Shamima Begum's pleas to be allowed back in the UK boosted his popularity among some Tories, but horrified others - particularly after Ms Begum's newborn son later died in a Syrian refugee camp. Mr Javid made it to the final four in the race to replace Theresa May as Tory leader last year, but dropped out and subsequently endorsed Mr Johnson. Born in Rochdale and raised in Bristol, he went to a state school and studied economics and politics at Exeter University. He became MP for Bromsgrove in 2010, leaving behind a career in finance that put him on the trajectory to Number 11. According to his website, Mr Javid was a vice president at the US bank Chase Manhattan at the age of 25 and later moved to Deutsche Bank, rising to senior managing director before he left in 2009. He held roles in the Treasury from 2012 until he was made culture secretary in April 2014, later going on to be business secretary in May 2015 and housing secretary in July 2016. After being named home secretary in April 2018, Mr Javid talked openly about how he experienced racism at an early age and 'could have had a life of crime' after growing up on 'Britain's most dangerous street'. During his stunted leadership campaign, Mr Javid played on his humble beginnings, saying his holidays were spent in Rochdale pretending he was somewhere else. After being knocked out of the leadership race, Mr Javid said: 'Work hard, have faith in your abilities, and don't let anyone try and cut you down to size or say you aren't a big enough figure to aim high. 'You have as much right as anyone to a seat at the top table, to be ambitious for yourself, and to make your voice heard.' Mr Javid, 49, is married to Laura, and has four children and a dog called Bailey. We may not have always agreed (we did sometimes) but his dedication to the role was incredible. Best wishes to him and his family.  Always welcome in Fermanagh.' Ireland's deputy prime minister Simon Coveney sent a message to Mr Smith saying: 'U have been such an effective SOS for NI at a time of real challenge & risk.    'Without your leadership I don't believe NI would have a Govt today. Thank you @JulianSmithUK for your trust, friendship and courage; UK & #Ireland can look to future with more confidence because of it.'  Ms McVey tweeted: 'I'm very sorry to be relieved of my duties as Housing Minister I wish my successor the very best & every success I'm very grateful to the Prime Minister for having given me the opportunity to serve in his government & he will continue to have my support from the back benches.'   Mr Cox, who was subject to hostile briefings from No10 that he was not a 'team player', said he was proud to have been part of government in 'turbulent political times'. In his resignation letter, the QC stressed his credentials as a loyalist, saying he had always backed Mr Johnson to 'see off the twin threats of Jeremy Corbyn and Nigel Farage'.  He pointed out that he told MPs last year they risked 'incurring the wrath of the British people by continually frustrating the result of the referendum'.  'I have been truly privileged to have served as Attorney General during the recent turbulent political times. I am now leaving the Government at the PM's request.  I shall continue to represent and stand up strongly for the interests of Torridge and West Devon,' he said.  Ms Villiers posted ruefully on Facebook: 'What the Prime Minister giveth, the Prime Minister taketh away: just over six months ago, I was delighted to be invited by the Prime Minister to return to government after three years on the backbenches.  This morning he told me that I need to make way for someone new. 'I am deeply grateful for having been given the opportunity to serve twice at the highest level of Government, first as Northern Ireland Secretary and then as Secretary of State for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. I tackled both roles with passion, commitment, and huge amounts of hard work.'  Outside the Cabinet, universities minister Chris Skidmore revealed today he was out of government, joking that he had been freed to 'be a better dad'.  Transport ministers George Freeman and Nusrat Ghani have also been given the bullet - although their boss Grant Shapps is set to stay in post.  The PM's maverick aide Dominic Cummings had initially wanted to slash the size of the Cabinet and axe a series of Whitehall departments.  But his advice appears to have been rejected for now, with ministers saying there is little sign of big changes to the machinery of government.  However, one current Cabinet minister cautioned that 'you never know what they are dreaming up in secret'.  A Government source said the PM was aiming to have a '50/50 gender balance' among the 26 most junior ministerial positions.  Julian Smith: Out as Northern Ireland Secretary Julian Smith's removal as Northern Ireland Secretary represents a crushing blow for the man who successfully helped restore powersharing at Stormont after three years of deadlock. Mr Smith did what his predecessors failed to do when he steered the devolved assembly back on track in January but it was not enough to keep him in the Cabinet. He has been booted out by Boris Johnson with critics speculating he was relieved of his duties due to clashes last year over the PM's Brexit policy. An MP for Skipton and Ripon since 2010, he previously held the role of parliamentary secretary to the treasury and chief whip. As chief whip he was tasked with trying - and failing - three times to help pass Theresa May's withdrawal agreement and many were surprised that he was kept in the Cabinet when Mr Johnson took power in July last year. The married 48-year-old was educated at the University of Birmingham, and Balfron High School before going on to have a successful career as an entrepreneur after setting up Arq International, an executive recruiting firm, in 1999. In Parliament since 2010, Mr Smith served on the Scottish Affairs Committee briefly before he became Parliamentary Private Secretary to Minister of State for International Development Sir Alan Duncan MP between September 2010 and 2012. He then became Parliamentary Private Secretary to Justine Greening MP, Secretary of State for International Development, between 2012 and May 2015, before he was appointed an Assistant Government Whip in David Cameron's Government. After the 2016 EU referendum, Mr Smith became one of six MPs who led Mrs May's leadership campaign, and after the campaign's success he was appointed Vice-Chamberlain of the Household - a senior position within the whips' office. Mr Smith attended the DUP annual conference in 2017 after the confidence-and-supply agreement between the Conservatives and the Democratic Unionists was brokered in the wake of the election, and was welcomed as a 'friend' of the party. He backed Remain in the 2016 Brexit referendum and served as chief whip under Mrs May between November 2017 and July 2019 before surprisingly being made Northern Ireland Secretary by Boris Johnson - a role he held for 204 days. He sparked controversy when he was critical of Mrs May's approach, claiming that the government should have made it clear after the 2017 election that it would have to accept a closer relationship with the European Union following Brexit. In a BBC documentary he also criticised ministers, accusing them of trying to undermine Mrs May, claiming their behaviour was the 'worst example of ill-discipline in cabinet in British political history'. In October 2013 The Guardian had claimed that Smith may have breached national security by posting an image of himself alongside military personnel at a high-security US base on his website. Mr Smith says his interests include 'violin and piano' and was a junior international squash player. Geoffrey Cox: Out as Attorney General Relatively unknown in Westminster before becoming Attorney General in 2018, Geoffrey Cox became a key player in Theresa May's government in the run up to the original March 29, 2019 Brexit deadline. He announced himself on the national political scene with a barnstorming speech as the warm up act for Mrs May at Conservative Party conference in October 2018. With his booming voice and soaring rhetoric he left many in the conference hall wondering why he wasn't the prime minister. His professional opinion would later have a major impact on Britain's departure from the EU. MPs wrestled with the government as they demanded Mr Cox's Brexit legal advice be published with the Commons eventually victorious in the contest. The publication of the legal advice in December 2018 torpedoed Mrs May's hopes of getting her Brexit deal through parliament because in it Mr Cox said the UK could not unilaterally leave the Irish border backstop protocol if it was ever implemented. He wrote: 'In the absence of a right of termination, there is a legal risk that the United Kingdom might become subject to protracted and repeating rounds of negotiations.' The 59-year-old QC was chosen to stay in the role as the government's top legal adviser by Boris Johnson when the latter took power in July last year. He first became an MP in 2005 and has represented the seat of Torridge and West Devon ever since. Before his political career he was a barrister, having first been called to the Bar in 1982. He is married and has three children. He has been tipped to chair a democracy commission being planned by the government to examine the relationship between Parliament and the courts.   Andrea Leadsom: Out as Business Secretary A former Tory leadership contender who was forced to apologise to Theresa May for suggesting being a parent made her a better leadership candidate than the childless ex-PM, Ms Leadsom leaves the government after six years on the front bench. Ms Leadsom was appointed Business Secretary by Boris Johnson when he took office in July last year. The Leave supporter, a mother of three, resigned as leader of the House of Commons in May last year amid a backlash against Mrs May's Brexit plan. Mrs Leadsom was hardly a household name when she first entered the fray to succeed David Cameron as leader of the Conservative Party in the wake of the EU referendum in 2016. Her plans to cross the threshold of Number 10 were thwarted when comments which appeared to suggest being a mother gave her an advantage as a potential prime minister over Mrs May saw the then-energy minister's hopes of winning evaporate. In an interview she said: 'I feel that being a mum means you have a real stake in the future of our country, a tangible stake.' Her departure from the leadership race in 2016 resulted in her being appointed environment secretary when Mrs May became premier. After the 2017 general election she was made Commons Leader, a role she held until Mr Johnson moved her to the business department. Mrs Leadsom entered Parliament in 2010 after a 25-year career in banking and finance - realising an ambition she first developed at the age of 13. Educated at Tonbridge Girls Grammar School and Warwick University, she rose to become financial institutions director at Barclays and worked with then Bank of England governor Eddie George to avert a crisis after the 1995 Barings collapse. She later spent a decade in fund management - her financial experience gaining her first a seat on the Treasury Select Committee and then a stint as economic secretary to the Treasury with responsibility for financial services. After a spell as a councillor in South Oxfordshire from 2003-2007 - during which she fought an unsuccessful general election campaign in the safe Labour seat of Knowsley South - she became MP for South Northamptonshire. Esther McVey: Out as Housing Minister Esther McVey found fame as a GMTV presenter in the 1990s before turning to politics, and was considered one of the Conservative Party's strongest media performers. The MP for Tatton – George Osborne's old seat – resigned in protest from the Cabinet over Theresa May's Brexit deal in November 2018 but was brought back to the top table by Boris Johnson last year. Ms McVey made a bid for the leadership after Theresa May quit last year – but finished in last place after the first ballot of MPs. The 51-year-old, who attended Cabinet as employment minister under David Cameron, was the most high-profile Tory casualty of the 2015 general election when she was ousted by Labour in Wirral West. She lost her seat after the unions launched a concerted effort to remove her from a constituency which was surrounded by a sea of red. She returned to Parliament in June 2017 after taking Mr Osborne's seat and was made deputy chief whip in November the same year. In January 2018, she made a remarkable comeback to the Cabinet table when she was appointed Work and Pensions Secretary. In an interview with the Daily Mail late last year, Ms McVey revealed how she had been put into foster care as a baby after she was born to young parents. She said: 'I believe most people in their life will fall upon tough times at some point. I want to give the message that anyone can succeed given the opportunity. But she sent Mrs May's Cabinet into meltdown in November when she dramatically quit in fury at the PM's Brexit divorce deal. She joined Dominic Raab in storming out in fury after the PM put her blueprint to her ministers in a stormy five-hour cabinet session. In March she boosted talk of a leadership bid after going public with her MP lover Philip Davies. The four-year relationship between her and the stubborn backbench MP for Shipley, 47, was already an open secret at Westminster. But the Brexiteer lovers went public to confirm they are 'two individuals, but a couple' in a joint-interview with the Conservative Home website. She later revealed that they were planning to marry after he proposed in April. Theresa Villiers: Out as Environment Secretary One of the leading Brexiteers in the government, Ms Villiers has been ousted as Environment Secretary after only being given the role in July last year.  Boris Johnson brought the divorced 51-year-old ex-barrister, who is descended from Edward II, back into government when he initially took power.  She had served as Northern Ireland Sectary in the coalition government and later under David Cameron's Tory government before being sacked by Theresa May. A lawyer, university lecturer and MEP before entering the Commons in 2005 the London-born and Bristol-educated MP for Chipping Barnet has not always seen eye-to eye with Mr Johnson over the environment.  She had shown her green credentials before her appointment last year having sparked a well-publicised hunt for a mystery litter bug who left their Crunchie chocolate bar wrapper in the House of Commons Chamber. She attacked litterers who dump their rubbish - damaging the environment and harming people's quality of life. And she warned that even the Palace of Westminster is not immune to the anti-social activity. Ms Villiers pulled out a crumpled up Crunchie bar wrapper which she said had been discarded carelessly on the green benches of the House of Commons. Brandishing the shiny wrapper, she said: 'However, I am afraid that it is not just young people who drop litter. 'To illustrate that, I produce this Crunchie wrapper, which I picked up this week after it had been dropped in the back row of the main Chamber of the House of Commons.' 'It is truly depressing that littering occurs even here, in this mother of Parliaments.' Sajid Javid's decision to quit today is the culmination of a bitter internal battle for control with Dominic Cummings - that the Chancellor ultimately lost. The camps in No10 and No11 have been in a barely-concealed state of war for months, with increasingly brutal briefing. Today's ultimatum to Mr Javid to sack his closest team and accept aides answering to Mr Cummings is the culmination of a naked power grab by the maverick strategy chief. Special advisers - known as Spads - have long acted as the voice of their ministers, representing their interests and determined to protect them and foster their careers. But No10 is determined that the loyalty of Spads should be to Mr Johnson alone.  In addition to Mr Javid, Justice Secretary Robert Buckland was ordered to sack one of his advisers, Peter Cardwell, in order to keep his own job.  Mr Cummings has been especially furious at the Treasury over a serious of briefings and leaks he blamed on 'rogue' operatives in No11. Flashpoints have included the Budget in March, a 'mansion tax' and Mr Javid's determination to push ahead with the HS2 rail link. Mr Cummings is a long-term critic of the £106billion scheme, which he regards as a cash black hole.   The Chancellor's team includes Mats Persson, a former head of the Open Europe think-tank and adviser to David Cameron - the ex-PM who once described Mr Cummings as 'career psychopath'.  Other aides include Samuel Coates, who previously worked at ConservativeHome, media adviser Tim Sculthorpe, Adam Memon and Jennifer Powell. Their jobs are tied to that of Mr Javid - meaning all have been automatically evicted from government with their boss.  But Mr Javid clearly believed he could not carry on in his role while they were sacked - the choice that he was apparently confronted with. It follows the unsavoury incident last year when his adviser Sonia Khan was summarily fired by Mr Cummings and frogmarched out of Downing Street for allegedly being in contact with friends of former Chancellor Philip Hammond.  The move left Mr Javid 'absolutely furious' but No10 tried to defuse the row by insisting that reports of a rift between him and Mr Johnson were 'grossly exaggerated'.  In the more than six months since Mr Johnson became PM and brought him into the heart of his machine, Mr Cummings has waged a war on the Spad system. A visible part of this was his bizarre January job advert in which he calls for 'super-talented weirdos' to apply to work at Number 10. Writing on his personal blog, Mr Cummings sets out plans for a Downing Street shake-up in which maths and physics PhDs would mingle with 'weirdos and misfits with odd skills' and people who 'fought their way out of appalling hell holes'.           And last week he ordered a clampdown on advisers socialising with journalists in a bid to exert message discipline over the who of Government.   Other spads were also vetoed by Mr Cummings. The hiring of Anita Boateng by Security Minister Brandon Lewis was blocked.   And Culture Secretary Nicky Morgan was told her adviser at the Department of Education, Luke Tryl, could not move with her to her new department.   The notoriously abrasive special adviser, who earlier this week appeared to suggest a team of cartoon superheroes called PJ Masks could do a better job than the then Cabinet, sometimes appears to relish confrontation, whether it is with senior politicians, civil servants or journalists.   Despite smiling broadly for the cameras as he walked into Downing Street today, Mr Javid is understood to have been furious when told that he had to sack all his aides, and accept a team being imposed on him.   He responded that would make him 'Chancellor in name only' or 'Chino' - a mocking moniker already applied to him by his enemies in Government. Nick King, a former chief of staff to Mr Javid, said: 'I worked for Sajid for years, was his first adviser and consider him a good friend.  'He inspires loyalty and is hugely loyal in return. 'I’m not at all surprised he chose to stand by his team ahead of staying in position.  'Speaks to his character.' With new Chancellor Rishi Sunak working with a new single team of special advisors drawn from a joint No 10/11 pool, the change effectively hands Mr Cummings and the PM a controlling stake in the Treasury. Although Mr Cummings was not in the room during fraught discussions with Mr Johnson, sources said it was 'obvious' who was behind the move.   He has made no secret of his determination to shake things up in the corridors of power and has shown no sign of any concern about what enemies he makes along the way. But being blamed for the departure of Boris Johnson's first chancellor after less that six months in the job may come back to haunt him if Mr Javid, a rival of Mr Johnson's for the Tory leadership last year, starts to make life difficult for his boss from the Tory backbenches.    Mr Cummings and Mr Javid then clashed over infrastructure spending, especially in the North. Last week the aide parked his tanks on the Treasury lawn by getting involved in Budget planning ahead of the fiscal showpiece on March 11. Preparations for the major event - the first since Brexit at the end of January - are usually the sole preserve of the chancellor of the day. But Mr Cummings was reported as trying to play a role in setting the government's direction on tax and spending - something he will find even easier after today's developments. Sources told The Times that the PM's top aide is working 'pretty much full time' on what should be included in the Budget and what should be targeted in the government spending review. This afternoon, shadow chancellor John McDonnell said: 'This must be a historical record with the government in crisis after just over two months in power. 'Dominic Cummings has clearly won the battle to take absolute control of the Treasury and install his stooge as Chancellor.' Mr Cummings has placed himself at the heart of the new administration and has made his presence felt in numerous areas. But some ministers are privately upset by what they view as Mr Cumming's 'control freakery'. He pushed for major spending announcements as soon as Mr Johnson became Prime Minister last year. But Mr Javid ultimately won the battle over spending as Mr Johnson agreed to stick to a set of fairly tough fiscal rules.   The ongoing row between aides in Number 10 and the Treasury was last week compared to conflict in the Middle East by an anonymous Whitehall official quoted by the Financial Times. 'It's become like the Israel-Palestine crisis: no one can pin down exactly when it started but it's descended into retaliation after retaliation,' the official said.   Mr Javid's his first planned Budget in November was cancelled as the Prime Minister pursued a snap election and Mr Javid would have been preparing for the parliamentary set-piece scheduled for March 11. The 49-year-old father-of-four- is the shortest-serving chancellor since Iain Macleod, who died shortly after taking office in 1970, according to the Institute for Government. In public, he identifies as the son of a bus driver, whose father arrived in England from Pakistan in the 1960s with just a pound in his pocket, and to colleagues, he is The Saj. He was a tough-talking home secretary whose hard stance on jihadi bride Shamima Begum's pleas to be allowed back in the UK boosted his popularity among some Tories, but horrified others - particularly after Ms Begum's newborn son later died in a Syrian refugee camp. After making it to the final four in the race to replace Theresa May as Tory leader last year, he dropped out and subsequently endorsed Mr Johnson. Born in Rochdale and raised in Bristol, he went to a state school and studied economics and politics at Exeter University. He became MP for Bromsgrove in 2010, leaving behind a career in finance that put him on the trajectory to Number 11.   
