{ By Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com   Published:  07:16, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7998887/Kate-Upton-shows-leg-short-shorts-hitting-red-carpet.html }
Kate Upton puts on a leggy display at the Canada Goose Cocktails and Conversation event in Los Angeles on Wednesday night. The 27 year old supermodel hit the red carpet at the event, which took place at Smogshoppe in Los Angeles. She wasn't seen with her baseball player husband Justin Verlander at the event, which focused on the impact climate change has on the future of polar bears. Upton stepped out in a low-cut white top tucked into light brown pinstriped short shorts with a matching jacket over her top. She also rocked starred diamond earrings with several rings on her fingers as she walked the red carpet at the event. She completed her look with a pair of tan pumps that matched her stylish ensemble.  The model, who has been married to Verlander since 2017 and gave birth to their daughter Genevieve in November 2018, made headlines for controversial comments about breastfeeding. She revealed in an interview with The Editorialist that she was struggling with motherhood, particularly breastfeeding her daughter. 'The reality, for me, was that breastfeeding was sucking the energy away from me. I realized I needed to calm down, to allow my body to recover,' she said. She later added in the interview that, 'Having VeVe has changed my life in such a wonderful way.' She explained the subsequent pressure 'to be doing all these things, like breastfeeding on the go.' Though, after getting some backlash for her comments, she clarified what she was trying to say in a social media statement.  'I tried to push myself early to get back to the gym, eat perfectly and try to achieve this alleged "snap back,"' she said 'But, after realizing how ridiculous these pressures are I quickly gave myself some slack and lived in the moment as a new mother,' she added.  She clarified, 'My energy was drained but my heart was extremely full, and I decided to not let others' opinions and expectations get in the way of my own personal timeline.' 
