{ By Jane Denton For Thisismoney   Published:  16:11, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-7995793/BP-vows-make-group-net-zero-2050-week-protesters-blocked-London-HQ-entrances.html }
BP's new boss has announced radical plans to cut the oil firm's carbon footprint to 'net zero' by 2050 and 'fundamentally' reconfigure the business.  Chief executive Bernard Looney said the group will also shrink the carbon intensity of the energy it sells by 50 per cent over the period.  In a bid to ramp up its green credentials and keep up with its rivals, FTSE-100 listed BP revealed it is setting up a team tasked with creating a roadmap for a net zero future.  Last week, and on Looney's first day as BP's new boss, the group's London headquarters temporarily shut its doors after Greenpeace protesters tried to place  hundreds of solar panels in front of the office and block the building's entrances with oil barrels.  Looney said today: 'The world's carbon budget is finite and running out fast; we need a rapid transition to net zero. We all want energy that is reliable and affordable, but that is no longer enough. It must also be cleaner.' He added: 'It is clear to me, and to our stakeholders, that for BP to play our part and serve our purpose, we have to change. And we want to change – this is the right thing for the world and for BP.' BP did not stipulate in detail how it planned to make rapid cuts to certain greenhouse gases, but confirmed it would reveal more details in the coming months.  BP said it plans to stop corporate 'reputation advertising' and divert cash used for such promotions to boost its climate change credentials.  It will also plough more money into investments outside the oil and gas sectors, while 'growing sustainable free cash flow and distributions to shareholders over the long term.' In the short term, however, the group will be boosting the amount of money it puts into oil and gas.  Looney said: 'We expect to invest more in low carbon businesses – and less in oil and gas – over time. The goal is to invest wisely, into businesses where we can add value, develop at scale, and deliver competitive returns.'  In a statement today, the company said: 'BP's new ambition to be a net zero company by 2050 or sooner covers the greenhouse gas emissions from its operations worldwide, currently around 55 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent (MteCO2e) a year, and the carbon in the oil and gas that it produces, equivalent currently to around 360 MteCO2e emissions a year – both on an absolute basis.  'Taken together, delivery of these aims would equate to a reduction in emissions to net zero from what is currently around 415 MteCO2e a year.' Alongside plans for a greener BP, Looney outlined plans for a major shake up of the business and its leadership teams. Admitting the group needs to 'reinvent' itself, Looney said BP's performance and 'value growth' arms would be divided into four divisions, namely Production & operations, customers & products, gas & low carbon energy, innovation & engineering.  Seven other teams will comprise the newly-shaped business, including a Strategy & Sustainability team led by former McKinsey partner, Giulia Chierchia.   BP's plans to go green follow similar moves by rivals, including Royal Dutch Shell and Total.  In response to BP's announcements today, Charlie Kronick, an oil adviser from Greenpeace UK, said: 'BP's 'ambitions' and 'aims' all seem to apply to Looney's successors, and leave the urgent questions unanswered.  'How will they reach net zero? Will it be through offsetting? When will they stop wasting billions on drilling for new oil and gas we can't burn? What is the scale and schedule for the renewables investment they barely mention? And what are they going to do this decade, when the battle to protect our climate will be won or lost?' Meanwhile, Climate Action 100+ said BP's announcement was 'welcome' . 'We need to see a wholesale shift to a net zero economy by 2050,' said Stephanie Pfeifer, a member of the action group's steering committee. She added: 'This must include oil and gas companies if we are to have any chance of successfully tackling the climate crisis.' For investors, the plan provides some welcome insight into how the oil giant hopes to tackle such a fundamental issue. Stuart Lamont, investment manager at Brewin Dolphin, said: 'The market has reacted positively to today's announcement from BP and its shares have risen just under 1 per cent with news of the strategy.'  'This is in keeping with the wider transition from big oil to big energy and the oil & gas sector demonstrating its commitment to decarbonisation. While the statement provides a positive direction of travel, investors and analysts will be looking to the capital markets day in September for further details.' 
