climate change
{ By Piers Morgan for MailOnline   Published:  16:05, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7996061/PIERS-MORGAN-Harry-Meghan-just-wanted-freedom-exploit-Dianas-death-millions.html }
The 400-strong audience at Miami Beach’s 1 Hotel crackled with anticipation as their next speakers strode to the podium. Guests included former British Prime Minister Tony Blair, Greek shipping heir Stavros Niarchos, U.S. sporting legends Alex Rodriguez and Magic Johnson, famed architect Sir Norman Foster and Patriots owner Robert Kraft. The common denominator amongst the ultra-exclusive gathering last Thursday was that they were all stinking rich, either multi-millionaires or billionaires. They’d been invited there by JP Morgan Chase & Co, America’s largest bank and the sixth largest in the world with total assets of $2.6 trillion. And the star headline act was the Duke and Duchess of Sussex. So far they’ve refused to confirm or deny reports they were paid between $500,000 and $1 million for their appearance. They were introduced by their friend, CBS News host Gayle King, and then after a brief introduction by Meghan, Harry delivered a speech about his favourite topic: mental health. More particularly, he spoke about how he’s been undergoing years of therapy to deal with the death of his mother Princess Diana. None of this was new territory. Indeed, Harry has talked of little else in recent years, constantly emoting in public speeches about his ‘struggle’ with his grief even now, 23 years later. It would take a heart of stone not to have sympathy for a man who was just 12 when he was made to walk behind his mother’s coffin in front of a billion TV viewers. I remember watching that at the time and thinking it was a disgracefully heartless thing to make a heartbroken little boy do. But Harry’s not the only person to ever lose a parent when he was young. It’s sadly happened to many millions of people, including me – my father died when I was one. And there’s a big difference between talking about it to raise public awareness of grief-related mental health issues - and doing it privately for a big fat fee to a bunch of super-rich bankers, business tycoons, politicians and celebrities. By commercially exploiting his mother’s death to make vast pots of money like this, Harry is surely behaving in exactly the same way he professes to despise from the media? The brazen hypocrisy didn’t stop there. Last July, the Duke and Duchess posted an urgent plea to save the planet on their Instagram to their 11 million followers. It read as follows: ‘As a continuation of our monthly social awareness approach…we turn our attention to the environment. There is a ticking clock to protect the planet – with climate change, the deterioration of our natural resources, endangerment of sacred wildlife, the impact of plastics and microplastics, and fossil fuel emissions, we are jeopardising this beautiful place we call home – for ourselves and for future generations. Let’s save it. Let’s do our part.’ Harry was then directly quoted in the same post saying: ‘Environmental damage has been treated as a necessary by-product of economic growth. So deeply ingrained is this thinking that it has been considered part of the natural order that humankind’s development comes at the expense of our planet. Only now are we starting to notice and understand the damage that we’ve been causing. With nearly 7.7 billion people inhabiting this Earth, every choice, every footprint, every action makes a difference.’ Just weeks after this post, the Sussexes were caught using Sir Elton John’s private plane from London to the South of France and back – a very short 90-minute journey, with 30 commercial flights available every day. The justifiably harsh criticism meted out to them for preaching one thing about the environment and then doing the complete opposite themselves was one of the things that drove them to quit official royal life. Harry and Meghan like to tell us what to do, but not be held to any account for their double standard actions at taxpayer’s expense. And now they’re free to do whatever they wish, they’ve shown their true environmental colours. The Sussexes were flown to the JP Morgan forum in the firm’s lavish Gulfstream private plane, from the $11 million mansion in Vancouver they’ve been living in for the past few months as guests of a mysterious billionaire benefactor. (Once in Miami, they stayed, again for free, at Serena Williams’s palatial home in Palm Beach. Say what you like about Harry and Meghan, but they sure know how to blag a freebie..) And what has been JP Morgan’s contribution to saving the planet? The bank was recently revealed, by the Rainforest Action Network, to have invested $195 billion into fossil fuel companies in the past three years alone. They were by far the worst offenders on the banking list of shame, with Wells Fargo a distant second at $151 billion. Just the type of company a pair of royal eco-warriors would want to support and take money from – right?! In fact, it’s hard to imagine a more ludicrously inappropriate first gig for them to take in their brave new progressive, planet-saving royal celebrity world. Sadly, this appears to be just the start of the Sussexes’ shameless nose-in-trough descent into banking ‘partnerships’. Yesterday, it was revealed that Harry’s held talks with another monster investment bank, Goldman Sachs, to build on the ‘Sussex Royal’ brand. This is the same Goldman Sachs that’s been widely lambasted for its part in the 2008 financial crash, and for making billions of dollars at the expense of its clients during and after it. In fact it emerged after the crash that Goldmans were both selling worthless packages of sub-prime loans to clueless customers AND betting their own money on the value of the loans collapsing, at the same time. And this is the same Goldman Sachs that’s invested $59 billion into financing fossil fuel projects, coming 12th on the RAN report. It’s not hard to see why these banks want a piece of the royal action – it’s a great way to show off to their clients. But Harry and Meghan will soon discover they have to sing increasingly frankly for their highly paid suppers, and that they can’t keep serving up the same old depressing speech about Diana and mental health. The pressure on them to reveal ever more juicy royal revelations will grow, just as it did with previous royals like Fergie the Duchess of York who tried to exploit their status in the ruthless commercial world, to disastrously tawdry effect. And it will all, inevitably, end in humiliation and tears. The speed with which Harry and Meghan have sold out to these woefully ill-suited banking ‘partners’ is as staggering as their willingness to use Diana’s death to justify the fees is distasteful. They only announced they were leaving Royal duty a month ago, and they’re still on the publicly funded sovereign grant payroll until May. British royal protection squad officers accompanied them to the JP Morgan forum, at an undisclosed cost to the British taxpayer. So, we’re now paying for them to fleece the royal status Harry inherited and Meghan married into, without them having to do any of the mundane duties that such fleecing normally requires in return. The Sussexes said they quit British royal life because they wanted peace, privacy and the freedom to focus on projects like saving the planet. In fact, as we now can see, they just wanted the freedom to whore out their royal names to the highest planet-wrecking investment bank bidders. 
