climate change
{ By Matthew Wright For Dailymail.com    Published:  14:54, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7995679/Journalism-professor-sparks-uproar-claims-OK-Boomer-like-calling-n-word.html }
A journalism professor at Oklahoma University is currently in hot water after he compared the phrase 'OK, Boomer' to the n-word.  Peter Gade, director of graduate studies and a Gaylord Family Endowed Chair, made the comments while speaking during a Journalism, Ethics and Democracy capstone class on Tuesday morning. The class, offered at the Gaylord College of Journalism and Mass Communication, is the only one offered for journalism students in the semester.  Gade had been advocating for more traditional journalism practices when he made the comments, according to student paper OU Daily.  A student in the class made a comment asserting the importance of changing with the times as journalists need to keep up with younger generations.  It was then that Gade made his comparison, claiming that the student's comment was the equivalent to telling him 'OK, Boomer.'  The class collectively chuckled but found themselves feeling daunted by his next comment.  'Calling someone a boomer is like calling someone a n****r,' Gade continued.  Several students reportedly left the class as Gabe tried defending his remarks. Others condemned the offensive remarks.  'My f*****g professor just had the NERVE to say OUTLOUD IN CLASS that calling someone a Boomer is like calling a black person A N****R,' one student from inside the class said as she took to Twitter.  Students also shared that they would be boycotting the professor's class, potentially hindering their graduation progress.    'I have to have this class in order to graduate,' a student said. 'But I have to stand with my fellow students. I shouldn’t have to chose between my education and advocating for what’s right.' The Black Emergency Response Team at OU released a statement stating that they expected 'full action to be taken against the professor and college.' 'In addition, we expect accommodation be made for the students who have experienced trauma because of this,' they added in the statement.  The sentiment was shared by the school's local chapter of the National Association of Black Journalists, who said they weren't surprised the comments were made in their setting.  'Nor, are we surprised that people still don't understand that insults like "OK, boomer" do not create the same uneasiness that the historical slur n****r does.'  The NABJ chapter called for 'an enhanced curriculum dedicated to the education of social and cultural competency for all students.'  They also demanded an increase in diverse faculty and staff, even among higher administration. OU NABJ asked for a staff position to be created for a 'chief officer of diversity and inclusion' at the Gaylord College.  The chapter also demanded that 'tangible repercussions' be enacted for the professor statement.  Interim University of Oklahoma President Joseph Harroz Jr. said in a statement that Gade's comments were protected by the First Amendment. 'While the professor's comments are protected by the First Amendment and academic freedom, his comment and word choice are fundamentally offensive and wrong,' he said. 'The use of the most offensive word, by a person in a position of authority, hurt and minimized those in the classroom and beyond.  'Our University must serve as an example to our society of both freedom of expression and understanding and tolerance. His words today failed to meet this standard. #WeAre speaks for our community; his words today do not.'  Gade, the Gaylord Family Endowed Chair at OU, has been on the faculty since 1998. He did not immediately respond to messages seeking comment. An email attributed to him was sent to students, apologizing for the remarks.  'I made an inexcusable mistake this morning in class with my choice of a word. I was wrong. I am sorry,' Gade said in the email 'I realize the word is hurtful and infuses the racial divisions of our country, past and present. Use of this word is inappropriate in any - especially educational settings.  'I offer my deepest and most sincere apologies. In the coming weeks. I will strive to show that I am an instructor and teacher who is trustworthy and respectful of all. Please give me that opportunity.'  The university has grappled with a number of racially charged incidents in recent years. Last year, two students were involved in a video in which one women wore blackface and used a racial slur. The university also severed ties with a fraternity in 2015 after several members took part in a chant caught on video that used racial slurs and referenced lynching. 'OK boomer' is a Generation Z and millennial retort to older people who don't understand the passions of younger generations. This could be anything from climate change, to mental health or financial inequality.    
