climate change
{ By Associated Press   Published:  11:08, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8037637/10-Things-Know-Today--24-February-2020.html }
Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today: 1. WHERE DEATH TOLL FROM VIRUS DRAMATICALLY SURGED An Iranian lawmaker says the death toll from the new coronavirus in the city of Qom is 50, even as the Health Ministry insisted only 12 deaths have been recorded to date in the country. 2. WHERE NEW CASES OF NEW VIRUS CONTINUE TO SPIKE The Centers for Disease Control in South Korea reported more than 230 more cases; China reported more than 400 new cases and 150 more deaths. 3. TRUMP RECEIVES A COLORFUL WELCOME India poured on the pageantry with a joyful reception for the president that kicked off a whirlwind 36-hour visit meant to reaffirm U.S.-India ties., but there have been protests against Trump in Indian cities as well. 4. BERNIE SANDER'S 2016 MOVEMENT GETS NEW LIFE IN 2020 The Democratic presidential candidate's team believe his strong stances on climate change, canceling student debt and providing universal health care would reignite strong support among young voters. 5. SHOCKING POLITICAL UPHEAVAL IN MALAYSIA Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad resigned while his political party quit the ruling alliance less than two years after his election victory. U.S. President Donald Trump and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi wave to the crowd at Sardar Patel Stadium in Ahmedabad, India, Monday, Feb. 24, 2020. India poured on the pageantry with a joyful, colorful welcome for President Donald Trump on Monday that kicked off a whirlwind 36-hour visit meant to reaffirm U.S.-India ties while providing enviable overseas imagery for a president in a re-election year. (AP Photo/Aijaz Rahi) 6. WHAT ISRAEL'S PRIME MINISTER IS BANKING ON TO WIN ELECTION Benjamin Netanyahu hopes President Trump's Mideast plan is key to ramping up support from influential West Bank settlers, but he has stumbled over his promises to quickly carry out annexation, sparking an outcry from settler leaders. 7. THIS AGENCY SKIRTS EVIL OF SLAVERY ON ANTEBELLUM PLANTATIONS The National Register of Historic Places says almost nothing about the enslaved people whose labor paid for ornate homes that today serve as wedding venues, bed-and-breakfast inns and private homes. 8. WHERE 1 IN 3 PEOPLE IS FACING HUNGER A study by the U.N. World Food Program says some Venezuelans are struggling to put enough food on the table to meet minimum nutrition requirements. 9. JUSSIE SMOLLETT DUE IN COURT The former "Empire" actor is facing a new set of charges alleging he lied to police about being targeted in a racist and homophobic attack in downtown Chicago last year. 10. LOS ANGELES TO HONOR KOBE, GIANNA BRYANT Thousands will gather in Staples Center Monday to say farewell to the basketball superstar and his 13-year-old daughter who died with seven others in a helicopter crash. Indian police detain members of Centre of Indian Trade Unions protesting against the visit of U.S. President Donald Trump to India, in Hyderabad, India, Monday, Feb. 24, 2020. India poured on the pageantry with a joyful, colorful welcome for President Donald Trump who on Monday kicked off a whirlwind 36-hour visit that emphasizes pageantry over policy and a mega-rally to reaffirm U.S.-India ties while providing enviable overseas imagery for a president in a re-election year. (AP Photo/Mahesh Kumar A.) In this Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020, photo, sumo wrestlers wearing masks arrive at Shin Osaka railway station in Osaka, western Japan. A viral outbreak that began in China has infected more than 79,000 people globally. The World Health Organization has named the illness COVID-19, referring to its origin late last year and the coronavirus that causes it. (Kyodo News via AP) Police stops cars trying to enter or leave the cordoned area in Casalpusterlengo, Northern Italy, Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020. A dozen Italian towns saw daily life disrupted after the deaths of two people infected with the virus from China and a pair of case clusters without direct links to the outbreak abroad. A rapid spike in infections prompted authorities in the northern Lombardy and Veneto regions to close schools, businesses and restaurants and to cancel sporting events and Masses. (Claudio Furlan/LaPresse via AP) Two people in carnival dress stand beneath a cloud of red dust in Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Spain, Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020. Flights leaving Tenerife have been affected after storms of red sand from Africa's Saharan desert hit the Canary Islands. Saturday's carnival was cancelled but Sunday's events are going ahead. (AP Photo/Andres Gutierrez) U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres addresses his statement, during the opening of the High-Level Segment of the 43rd session of the Human Rights Council, at the European headquarters of the United Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, Monday, Feb. 24, 2020. (Salvatore Di Nolfi/Keystone via AP) Everton's Richarlison, right, fights for the ball with Arsenal's Shkodran Mustafi during the English Premier League soccer match between Arsenal and Everton at Emirates stadium in London, Sunday, Feb. 23, 2020. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth) In this Friday, Feb. 21, 2020 photo, people walk on the hills in the West Bank during the Jordan Valley parade, in Jordan Valley. Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is eager to court the votes of the country's influential West Bank settlers in critical elections next month. President's Donald Trump's Mideast plan seemed to be the key to ramping up their support. The plan envisions Israel's eventual annexation of its scores of West Bank settlements - a long time settler dream. But in the weeks since it was unveiled, Netanyahu has stumbled over his promises to quickly carry out the annexation, sparking verbal attacks from settler leaders. (AP Photo/Ariel Schalit) Members of Worcester Canoe Club paddle on the flooded horse race course at Worcester Racecourse, England, Sunday Feb. 23, 2020. Stormy weather continues to batter west and northern England bringing further flooding to already sodden communities. (Jacob King/PA via AP) Hindu priests offer prayers holding a portrait of U.S. President Donald Trump in New Delhi, India, Monday, Feb. 24, 2020. The prayer event was held by Hindu Sena for a successful Trump visit and for world peace. (AP Photo/Manish Swarup) 
