climate change
{ By Ryan Morrison For Mailonline    Published:  05:00, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7992369/Insect-munching-marsupials-difficult-handle-warming-climate.html }
A species of insect-munching 'sex craved' marsupials could find it difficult to handle the warmer temperatures caused by climate change, a study claims. Researchers from the University of Science and Technology in Norway studied the yellow-footed antechinus to see how it responds to changes in temperature. An estimated one billion animals perished in Australia's recent wildfires and questions loom over the ability of wildlife to adapt as the world gets warmer. The new study involved subjecting groups of antechinus to different heat ranges as they grew to adulthood to see how they develop. They found that those exposed to hotter temperatures were not 'particularly adept' at adjusting to the prolonged heat that is expected in Australia in future.  Scroll down for video  Experiments revealed that behaviour of the marsupials' - whose males die after 'frenzied' sex - could shift when faced with rising ambient temperatures experienced during the antechinus' growth period. Lead author Dr Clare Stawski, said changing behaviour could have important implications in terms of how the species reproduces and will respond to change.  'Individuals raised in warm conditions appear to have less phenotypic flexibility, suggesting that they may not be able to respond effectively to prolonged increases in temperature.' Phenotypic flexibility refers to the ability of an organism to adjust to a new type of environmental stress. Dr Stawski's team wanted to see how the antechinus might respond to temperature swings for varying time periods. They experimented on 19 juvenile antechinus, and split them into two groups which were subject to different temperatures ranging from 62 to 82 degrees Fahrenheit. Infrared sensors attached to their cages measured their activity and custom-made data loggers recorded their behaviour. Once the miniature marsupials reached adult age, the scientists measured their metabolic rates, body mass and other physiological parameters. They found the yellow-footed antechinus to be more active and have lower metabolic rates at warmer temperatures, which is typical for many mammals shifting from winter to summer. However, they also discovered that the mammals are not particularly adept at enduring the prolonged heat waves associated with climate change. The findings do not bode well for the carnivorous marsupial.  Australia's national science agency has projected with 'very high confidence' that hot days will get hotter and strike more frequently in the future. Australia is home to at least ten species of antechinus, and while they superficially resemble rodents, they behave very differently, especially in their love lives. The males die from stress-induced immune system breakdown after a short-but-frenzied period of mating. Another difference is that antechinus can enter a state of inactivity - called torpor - in response to changing environmental factors. Dr Stawski noted that the study, published in the Frontiers in Physiology journal, could shed light on all antechinus species, as they share similar habitats and sexual behaviours. In previous studies Dr Stawski and her colleagues investigated how small marsupials might respond to wildfires. They found that torpor can be a very effective means for surviving a wildfire, in the period after a fire when resources are scarce, but stressed that this was only true if the mammals were holed up in a safe refuge. On the estimated one billion animals that perished in Australia's recent wildfires, she added: 'It is likely that many torpid animals perished during the current wildfires in Australia due to their severity. 'Further, as these wildfires are occurring during summer and heatwaves, many animals would be unable to effectively employ torpor due to the high temperatures.' The findings have been published in the journal Frontiers in Physiology. On land, heatwaves can be deadly for humans and wildlife and can devastate crops and forests. Unusually warm periods can also occur in the ocean. These can last for weeks or months, killing off kelp forests and corals, and producing other significant impacts on marine ecosystems, fishing and aquaculture industries. Yet until recently, the formation, distribution and frequency of marine heatwaves had received little research attention.  Climate change is warming ocean waters and causing shifts in the distribution and abundance of seaweeds, corals, fish and other marine species. For example, tropical fish species are now commonly found in Sydney Harbour. But these changes in ocean temperatures are not steady or even, and scientists have lacked the tools to define, synthesize and understand the global patterns of marine heatwaves and their biological impacts. At a meeting in early 2015, we convened a group of scientists with expertise in atmospheric climatology, oceanography and ecology to form a marine heatwaves working group to develop a definition for the phenomenon: A prolonged period of unusually warm water at a particular location for that time of the year. Importantly, marine heatwaves can occur at any time of the year, summer or winter. With the definition in hand, we were finally able to analyse historical data to determine patterns in their occurrence. Over the past century, marine heatwaves have become longer and more frequent around the world. The number of marine heatwave days increased by 54 per cent from 1925 to 2016, with an accelerating trend since 1982. We collated more than 100 years of sea surface temperature data around the world from ship-based measurements, shore station records and satellite observations, and looked for changes in how often marine heatwaves occurred and how long they lasted. We found that from 1925 to 1954 and 1987 to 2016, the frequency of heatwaves increased 34 per cent and their duration grew by 17 per cent. These long-term trends can be explained by ongoing increases in ocean temperatures. Given the likelihood of continued ocean surface warming throughout the 21st century, we can expect to see more marine heatwaves globally in the future, with implications for marine biodiversity. Numbers and statistics are informative, but here's what that means underwater. A marine ecosystem that had 30 days of extreme heat in the early 20th century might now experience 45 days of extreme heat. That extra exposure can have detrimental effects on the health of the ecosystem and the economic benefits, such as fisheries and aquaculture, derived from it. A number of recent marine heatwaves have done just that. In 2011, a marine heatwave off western Australia killed off a kelp forest and replaced it with turf seaweed. The ecosystem shift remained even after water temperatures returned to normal, signalling a long-lasting or maybe even permanent change. That same event led to widespread loss of seagrass meadows from the iconic Shark Bay area, with consequences for biodiversity including increased bacterial blooms, declines in blue crabs, scallops and the health of green turtles, and reductions in the long-term carbon storage of these important habitats. Similarly, a marine heatwave in the Gulf of Maine disrupted the lucrative lobster fishery in 2012. The warm water in late spring allowed lobsters to move inshore earlier in the year than usual, which led to early landings, and an unexpected and significant price drop. More recently, a persistent area of warm water in the North Pacific, nicknamed 'The Blob', stayed put for years (2014-2016), and caused fishery closures, mass strandings of marine mammals and harmful algal bloom outbreaks along the coast. It even changed large-scale weather patterns in the Pacific Northwest.  As global ocean temperatures continue to rise and marine heatwaves become more widespread, the marine ecosystems many rely upon for food, livelihoods and recreation will become increasingly less stable and predictable. Anthropogenic, that is human-caused, climate change is linked to some of these recent marine heatwaves. For example, human emissions of greenhouse gases made the 2016 marine heatwave in tropical Australia, which led to massive bleaching of the Great Barrier Reef, 53 times more likely to occur. Even more dramatically, the 2015-16 marine heatwave in the Tasman Sea that persisted for more than eight months and disrupted Tasmanian fisheries and aquaculture industries was over 300 times more likely, thanks to anthropogenic climate change. For scientists, the next step is to quantify future changes under different warming scenarios. How much more often will they occur? How much warmer will they be? And how much longer will they last? Ultimately, scientists should develop forecasts for policy makers, managers and industry that could predict the future impacts of marine heatwaves for weeks or months ahead. Having that information would help fishery managers know when to open or close a fishery, aquaculture businesses to plan harvest dates and conservation managers to implement additional monitoring efforts. Forecasts can help manage the risks, but in the end, we still need urgent action to curb greenhouse gas emissions and limit global warming. If not, marine ecosystems are set for an ever-increasing hammering from extreme ocean heat. Source: Eric Oliver, Assistant Professor, Dalhousie University; Alistair Hobday, Senior Principal Research Scientist - Oceans and Atmosphere, CSIRO; Dan Smale, Research Fellow in Marine Ecology, Marine Biological Association; Neil Holbrook, Professor, University of Tasmania; Thomas Wernberg, ARC Future Fellow in Marine Ecology, University of Western Australia in a piece for The Conversation. 
