climate change
{ By Stephen Johnson For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  00:39, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7993045/Resources-Minister-Keith-Pitt-declares-war-greenies-pushes-coal-gas-uranium-exports.html }
Australia's new Resources Minister has declared war on environmental activists who are determined to stop fossil fuel exports. A week after being elevated to cabinet, Keith Pitt is pushing for Australia to sell more coal, natural gas and uranium to our major trading partners - and wants more mines approved. He also signalled his determination to triumph over green zealots.  'Some environmental groups would consign our manufacturing sector to outsourcing overseas, our rural and regional areas to poverty, and our economy to the dustbin of history,' Mr Pitt told Daily Mail Australia on Wednesday. Minerals extracted from the ground are by far Australia's biggest single export by value and the new Nationals minister has also vowed to boost gas production to help local manufacturers. The former sugarcane farmer from Bundaberg north of Brisbane, has vowed to ramp up energy exports and pressure state governments to be more receptive to coal seam gas and coal mining. Scroll down for video   He argued more extraction would boost government royalties, which would in turn fund essential community services and lift living standards.  'The royalties and taxes that states and the Commonwealth receive from the sector are building the roads, hospitals and schools that we rely on,' he said.   He also vowed to pressure Queensland's Labor government into approving more coal mines in the Galilee Basin and argued renewable energy in fact depended on the extraction of coal and iron ore, used to make steel, and precious metals. 'In addition we are growing our production and exports of minerals and metals that are critical to the growing renewables and clean energy sectors,' he said. 'Without metals like copper, nickel, lithium and the wide range of rare earths and other critical minerals, we can shut down the electric vehicle industry, we can pull down the wind farms and pull the plug our mobile phone and computer networks.' Environmental activists and the Greens are determined to stop mining, in a bid to tackle climate change, and have been staging militant demonstrations in Australia's major cities.  Extinction Rebellion has this month staged protests in Brisbane against Indian resources giant Adani's proposed Carmichael mine in central Queensland's Galilee Basin. Militant demonstrations have been a regular sight in the Queensland capital in recent months.  Last year, as bushfires ravaged southern Queensland and northern New South Wales, Mr Pitt had a suggestion for Extinction Rebellion protesters who had threatened, by email, to stop him catching a flight. 'Some anonymous numpty has taken it upon themselves to send us an email full of blackmail and threats saying they'll come and close down our path to the airport,' he told Parliament in November as a backbencher. 'Well, can I say I've got a couple of suggestions: first thing is, stay at school and learn some punctuation.' Mr Pitt, a Nationals MP who represents the regional southern Queensland electorate of Hinkler, also suggested environmental activists volunteer with their local Rural Fire Services as an alternative to protesting. 'They may well want to glue themselves or chain themselves to something,' he said. 'Here's some more suggestions: get yourself down to your local volunteer fire brigade and chain yourself to a fire hose. 'Stand up with those individuals who show courage and are out there protecting life and property.' Mr Pitt last week replaced Matt Canavan as Resources Minister. His predecessor resigned from the ministry and from cabinet as former deputy prime minister Barnaby Joyce launched an ultimately-doomed leadership challenge to Nationals leader Michael McCormack. 
