{ By Emily Webber and Rory Tingle For Mailonline   Published:  15:43, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7991793/Nanny-McPhee-stars-mother-living-parents-worst-nightmare.html }
Nanny McPhee star Raphael Coleman died in South Africa while jogging as he trained to take on animal poachers, it emerged today.  The 25-year-old Extinction Rebellion activist had 'no prior health problems' when he collapsed on Friday following an apparent heart failure.  His mother, novelist Liz Jensen, today said his shocking death was 'too much to bear' before adding, 'It is hard to imagine how life will continue'.  Mrs Jensen tweeted: 'We are heartbroken but so proud of him and his work to protect our Heaven on Earth. He inspired so many people and was so loved. 'He was beautiful and wise and it's hard to imagine how life will continue. But it must and will - and he'd want that. We were so lucky to have him, he brought such joy. 'It's every parent's worst nightmare. It seems he died of heart failure - he was running and laughing when he collapsed. It was blessedly quick.' Coleman played Eric Brown in Nanny McPhee and today Eliza Bennett, who played his onscreen sister Tora, also paid tribute in a tweet.  'I was so heartbroken to hear about Raphael. After we worked on Nanny McPhee, he dedicated his life to protecting wildlife and fighting climate change. I’m honoured to have crossed paths him & my heart is with his family in this dark time.' Coleman gave up a career in science to campaign with Extinction Rebellion, which called him a 'burning bright soul who will be deeply missed'.  In a statement referring to the activist by his new name, Iggy Fox, the group said: 'He died while exercising in South Africa as part of a training to stop animal poaching. 'Iggy died as he lived: trying to make the world a better place, training to stop poachers in Africa and surrounded by trees and people who cared about him. 'Iggy's future was so bright and to think that it is over breaks our hearts. We are in mourning but we are also celebrating his life – which he lived so fully.' Yesterday, Coleman's stepfather Carsten Jensen wrote on Facebook that Coleman has passed away on Friday after he could not be revived.  The former child actor, who appeared alongside Emma Thompson in the 2005 film, died without 'prior health problems', Mr Jensen confirmed.   In a long and heartfelt post on Facebook, he wrote: 'To die young. I guess there's nothing that makes you see death as unfair and meaningless as when a young person dies.  'It's life itself that's sabotaged. It just happened to my wife, Liz, whose youngest son, Raph of only 25, died last Friday.   'He collapsed without prior health problems in the middle of a trip and could not be restored. I got to know Raph when he was six years old, and we were so close.' Tributes have poured in for Coleman, which described him as 'one of the most beautiful souls you could hope to meet'.  Another added: 'So very, very sorry for your loss of such a wise and exuberant young man. RIP Iggy Fox.'  Warren Draper posted: 'The greatest tribute we can offer is to continue your work and build a better, braver, brighter world for all.'  Coleman ran eco group Extinction Rebellion's social media and spoke at demonstrations.  Mr Jensen told how he was 'arrested again and again' and was one of the first and most active members of the group.  After his starring role in Nanny McPhee, he went on to feature in the 2009 American horror film, It's Alive, as Daniel Davis. In the same year he also starred as Edward in Edward's Turmoil and The Fourth Kind as Ronnie Tyler.  At 18 he travelled to Thailand where he pursued his passion for science and became a biologist.  He later went to Costa Rica and Indonesia where he qualified as a diver before working for Extinction Rebellion.   Speaking to the Extinction Rebellion newspaper, The Hourglass, he described his wish for a 'future' when he was questioned in a police interview.  He said: 'I'd quite like a future. Right now, my future is on fire, and in Brazil, they're killing the firefighters.'  Extinction Rebellion tweeted earlier: 'He was 25, had given up a career in science to join XR and fought hard for the cause, especially for Indigenous rights.  'Iggy will be deeply missed by us all.'  A tribute to Coleman will be held at the Brazilian Embassy in London at 6pm on Thursday. 
