climate change
{ By Chris Dyer For Dailymail.com   Published:  09:13, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7990341/Harrison-Ford-calls-Trump-son-b-Jimmy-Kimmel-show.html }
Harrison Ford mocked Donald Trump on the Jimmy Kimmel show and called the president a 'son of a b****'. The Star Wars and Indiana Jones star made the joke when he appeared on the live broadcast last night to promote his new film, The Call of the Wild. During the interview the legendary actor was presented with a mock poster for The Call of the Wild which was made up of fake reviews from Donald Trump, instead of comments from critics. The host started by asking Ford if he had 'seen the reviews' of his new movie. Kimmel then presented the fake poster for the film that replaced critics' reviews and filled it with fake remarks from 'Donald J. Trump', referencing his 'perfect call' with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky that sparked the impeachment inquiry.  One of these fake reviews said, 'That call was perfect', while another read, 'This was a perfect call', 'I call it a ''perfect call'' because it was'. The mock poster also had comments such as 'It was a great call. Not just a good call, it was a perfect call.' 'So the reviews are really pouring in', Kimmel told Ford as the audience in Los Angeles laughed and applauded.  Ford burst out laughing and made his own crack at the expense of the president.  He told Kimmel: 'That's the first thing that son of a b**** has done for me...ever.' When Kimmel mentioned his next guest 'Science Bob', Ford took another swing at Trump. The host said: 'Science has really come under attack hasn't it?' Ford replied: 'Ya' think.'  The 77-year-old actor joked: 'Speaking of science… out the door. We don't believe in science anymore, nobody here believes in science anymore.'   Kimmel then asked Ford if he was good at science at school and the actor replied he was 'good at the dissection of the small dead animals'. He went on to explain he got good marks until the fifth grade when his performance dropped off, adding 'I wasn't a great student'. Ford added: 'That's why I'm an actor now, because in the middle of my college career I realized I was never going to make it.' Ford has previously spoken out against the Trump administration's climate-change denial. He said in 2017: 'We face an unprecedented moment in this country. Today's greatest threat is not climate change, not pollution, not flood or fire. It's that we've got people in charge of important shit who don't believe in science.'  The Call Of The Wild, due to be be released on February 20, is based on the 1903 Jack London novel of the same name about the adventures of a St. Bernard/Scotch Collie dog in the Canadian Yukon.  Ford will play gold hunter John Thornton in the film that will mark the live-action directorial debut of Chris Sanders. 
