{ By Afp and Joe Pinkstone For Mailonline    Published:  09:22, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7990465/Half-MILLION-insect-species-face-extinction.html }
A total of around half a million insect species are heading towards extinction due to human activity, and it could have a catastrophic impact on lie on Earth.   Scientists have issued a 'warning to humanity' on the heels of a damning study that found insects could soon be wiped out on a cataclysmic scale.  It found that, of all the animals in the world facing imminent eradication, half of them are insects.  Insects are essential for pollination, pest control and other processes that allow the world's ecosystems to survive.  Scroll down for video   'The current insect extinction crisis is deeply worrying,' said Pedro Cardoso, a biologist at the Finnish Museum of Natural History and lead author of a review study published Monday. 'Yet, what we know is only the tip of the iceberg,' he told AFP. The disappearance of bugs that fly, crawl, burrow, jump and walk on water is part of a gathering mass extinction event, only the sixth in the last half-billion years. The last one was 66 million years ago, when an errant space rock wiped out land-based dinosaurs and most other life forms. This time, humans have been identified as the main antagonist.   'Human activity is responsible for almost all insect population declines and extinctions,' Cardoso told AFP. The main drivers are dwindling and degraded habitat, followed by pollutants - especially insecticides - and invasive species. Over-exploitation for farming, more than 2,000 species of insects are part of a human diet, and climate change are also taking a toll. The decline of butterflies, beetles, ants, bees, wasps, flies, crickets and dragonflies has consequences far beyond their own demise. 'With insect extinction, we lose much more than species,' Cardoso said. 'Many insect species are vital providers of services that are irreplaceable,' including pollination, nutrient cycling and pest control. These 'ecosystem services' are worth $57 billion (52 billion euros) a year in the United States alone, earlier research has found. Globally, crops that require insect pollination have an economic value of at least $235-577 billion annually, according to the UN biodiversity science panel, known as IPBES. Many animals rely on abundant insects to survive. A sharp drop in bird numbers across Europe and the United States, for example, has been linked to the collapse of insect populations decimated by pesticide use. Scientists estimate the number of insect species at about 5.5 million. Only a fifth of them have been identified and named. 'The number of threatened and extinct insect species is woefully underestimated because so many are rare or undescribed,' Cardoso said. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species has evaluated only some 8,400 species of insects out of one million known to exist. Five to 10 percent of all insect species have died out since the industrial era kicked into high gear some 200 years ago. Half of indigenous species of plants and vertebrates are found exclusively in some three dozen biodiversity 'hotspots' that cover on 2.5 percent of Earth surface. 'These hotspots likely harbour a similar percentage of endemic insect species,' said the study titled 'Scientists' warning to humanity on insect extinctions,' published in Conservation Biology. A quarter century ago conservation scientists issued a 'Warning to Humanity' about the collapse of Nature. In 2017, they issued a second warning, signed by 15,000 scientists. The new study, titled 'Scientists' warning to humanity on insect extinctions', was published in the journal Conservation Biology. The world has experienced five mass extinctions over the course of its history, and experts claim we are seeing another one happen right now.    A 2017 research paper claimed a 'biological annihilation' of wildlife in recent decades has triggered the sixth mass extinction and says the planet is heading towards a 'global crisis'.  Scientists warn humanity's voracious consumption and wanton destruction is to blame for the event, which is the first major extinction since the dinosaurs. Two species of vertebrate, animals with a backbone, have gone extinct every year, on average, for the past century. Currently around 41 per cent of amphibian species and more than a quarter of mammals are threatened with extinction. There are an estimated 8.7 million plant and animal species on our planet and about 86 per cent of land species and 91 per cent of sea species remain undiscovered. Of the ones we do know, 1,204 mammal, 1,469 bird, 1,215 reptile, 2,100 amphibian, and 2,386 fish species are considered threatened. Also threatened are 1,414 insect, 2,187 mollusc, 732 crustacean, 237 coral, 12,505 plant, 33 mushroom, and six brown algae species. More than 25,000 species of 91,523 assessed for the 2017 'Red List' update were classified as 'threatened'.  The number of invertebrates at risk has also peaked.  Scientists predict insects may go extinct within 100 years as a result of crippling population decline.    The dawn of the mass extinction coincides with the onset of the Anthropocene - the geological age defined by human activity being the dominant influence on climate and the environment. 
