{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  07:03, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7990221/Renewables-benefit-regional-Qld-mayor.html }
With federal politics divided about the future of coal-fired power, a Queensland local government is reaping the rewards of investing in renewable energy. The Western Downs has traditionally been a region where its economy relied on agriculture, coal and gas, but in the last four years it has placed a strong emphasis on investing in solar and wind farms. The region's mayor Paul McVeigh said this investment in renewable energy has resulted in economic and social benefits as well as environmental. Mr McVeigh told AAP his region had benefited from the diversification of their energy production to include solar and wind farms. "We are looking at the economic driver behind this - a lot of the solar and wind farms constructed are on poorer-quality agricultural land," he said. "The yield per hectare from a solar and wind farm is so much greater both in employment numbers and dollars returned to our community." The mayor also highlighted an upcoming wind farm to be built in the small town of Dulacca, about 380km west of Brisbane. He said that while the majority of jobs created will be in construction, he was most excited about the five new permanent jobs it would create in the town of about 200 residents. "There is a little school at Dulacca and you get five new families - the potential is there." All of this is achievable in regions across the country, a climate researcher says. The Climate Council of Australia's Tim Baxter says Australia is best placed to invest in renewable energy, having the advantage of a dry and windy continent. He said if Australia did not act on reducing emissions, then the threat of climate change would not be addressed. "We are the 14th largest emissions producer in the world and if Australia doesn't reduce, we don't solve climate change," he told AAP. "This is a problem we have a solution for, it is just a matter of implementing it." 
