climate change
{ By Stephen Johnson For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:17, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8036277/Atlassian-paid-no-income-tax-despite-making-1billion-one-year.html }
Tech giant Atlassian paid zero income tax despite taking in more than $1billion in revenue, tax records have revealed. Its Australian billionaire founders Mike Cannon-Brookes and Scott Farquhar are fond of telling the government how to tackle climate change.   The renewable energy they advocate is largely dependent upon tax receipts to fund government subsidies.  Despite that, Atlassian - with a market capitalisation of $54billion - has not contributed to that revenue. The most recent figures from the Australian Taxation Office show Atlassian paid no income tax in 2017-18 despite having a taxable income of almost $138million from corporate revenue of $1.044billion. The company, now registered in London and listed in the United States, claimed research and development tax offsets which meant it was left with no tax bill. 'As one of the biggest tech employers in the country, we invest millions in research and development (R&D) every year to create products that transform how teams work together at over 160,000 companies around the world,' a spokesman told Daily Mail Australia on Monday. 'That deep investment generates R&D tax offsets for every dollar Atlassian spends on eligible R&D activities, reducing the company's Australia tax payable.' Last year, Atlassian spent $877million on research and development, figures from their annual report showed.  Mr. Cannon-Brookes, a co-chief executive from Sydney's ritzy eastern suburbs, also promotes renewable energy. This month, he has publicised the installation of solar panels in bushfire-affected areas as part of the Resilient Energy Collective - a joint venture with Elon Musk's Tesla battery company and solar panel maker 5B.  'Here's a little something I've been working on with brilliant mates at @5B_Au & @Tesla to bring power to bushfire communities v fast. Installed in under a day, can last 20 years,' he said on February 19. The Resilient Energy Collective today tweeted about their efforts.  'In the wake of devastation, we're pulling together to rebuild. See how @Resilient_EC is addressing the energy needs of our community + reducing our environmental footprint at the same time,' it said. However the impetus behind the Resilient Energy Collective was not purely charitable, but primarily a business investment with a profit motive. The costs of the start-up had been drawn down from the investment fund of Mr Cannon-Brookes and his wife Annie, who live in the $100million Point Piper mansion, Fairwater.  
