{ By Joe Pinkstone For Mailonline  and Afp   Published:  13:30, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-8042169/Australian-bushfires-destroyed-FIFTH-continents-forests.html }
The devastating bushfires that ravaged Australia over the last 12 months created an unprecedented amount of damage and destroyed a fifth of the continent's forests.  A series of studies and articles dedicated to the tragedy called the horrific fires 'a fiery wake-up call for climate science'. Scientists say the fires were categorically linked to climate change and worsened by a year-long drought exacerbated by climate change. The bushfires raged for months and set vast swathes of land ablaze, destroying homes, killing around half a billion animals and taking the lives of 33 people.   Scroll down for video  A comment piece from two researchers, from the CERFACS in France, speaks of a 'natural disaster of breathtaking scale'.  They claim the fires are unequivocally related to climate change, combating a belief held by many in Australia that climate change is either non-existent or exaggerated.  Conservative Australian politician Craig Kelly has previously said: 'Bushfires have nothing to do with 'climate change' and 'Beware of climate alarmists: Everything they tell you is a lie.' The authors of the damning article in Nature fiercely combat such delusions.  Dr Benjamin Sanderson and Dr Rosie Fisher write: 'Mean warming levels are now sufficiently large that many high temperature extreme events would be impossible without anthropogenic influence.' They continue: 'In the case of recent events in Australia, there is no doubt that the record temperatures of the past year would not be possible without anthropogenic influence, and that under a scenario where emissions continue to grow, such a year would be average by 2040 and exceptionally cool by 2060.'    Australian researchers examined several other aspects of the blazes, including investigations into their extent and possible causes. One piece of research, published in a special edition of the journal Nature Climate Change, found that between September 2019 and January 2020 around 5.8 million hectares of broadleaf forest were burned in New South Wales and Victoria. The 5.8 million hectares of charred land accounts for roughly 21 percent of the nation's forested area, making this fire season the most devastating on record. Average annual forest loss in Australia due to fire is around two percent.   However, the scientists expect the real figure is even higher as the research did not include data from Tasmania.   'Halfway through Spring 2019 we realised that a very large part of the eastern Australian forest could be burned in this single season,' Matthias Boer, from the Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment at Western Sydney University, Penrith, told AFP. 'The shock came from realising that this season was off the charts globally in terms of the percentage of the continental section of a forest biome that burned.'   Another study looked at the conditions that made the fires so damaging - a years-long dry spell in Australia's Murray-Darling Basin. Droughts create more fuel for wildfires and make it harder for forests to recover after each blaze. Andrew King, from the University of Melbourne, and colleagues looked at a phenomenon known as the Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD), which has a direct effect on rainfall levels in Australia and elsewhere. Since 2017 much of Australia has experienced widespread drought, something the study attributed to a relative lack of negative IOD events. This sees warmer than normal sea surface temperatures in the east Indian Ocean with cooler waters in the west. These events tend to shift weather patterns and typically bring greater rainfall to southeast Australia, and are made less frequent as global sea temperatures warm. Dr King and the team examined rainfall statistics and found that the winter of 2016 saw extremely heavy precipitation and a corresponding negative IOD event. Since then, the Murray-Darling Basin has experienced 12 consecutive seasons with below-average rainfall, the longest period on record since 1900. 'With climate change there have been projections that there will be more positive IOD events and fewer negative IOD events,' King told AFP. 'This would mean that we'd expect more dry seasons in Australia and possibly worse droughts.'  The national death toll of Australia's 2019/2020 bushfire season was 33 as of Monday, February 3, with 25 confirmed deaths in New South Wales, three in South Australia and five in Victoria.  New South Wales:  Robert Lindsey, 77, and Gwen Hyde, 68, were found in their burned out Coongbar home near Casino on October 9th.  New South Wales: The body of 85-year-old George Nole was found in a burnt out car near his home in Wytaliba, near Glen Innes. Vivian Chaplain, a 69-year-old woman from Wytaliba, succumbed to her injuries in hospital after attempting in vain to save her home and animals from the blaze. The body of 63-year-old Julie Fletcher was pulled from a scorched building in Johns River, north of Taree.  Barry Parsons, 58, was found in a shed at Willawarrin, near Kempsey. Chris Savva, 64, died after his 4WD overturned near burnt-out South Arm bridge, near Nambucca Heads. A 59-year-old man was founded sheltered in a Yarrowitch water tank on November 7. He died of injuries on December 29.   Victoria:  David Moresi, 69, died after being involved in a traffic incident while working at the at the Gelantipy fire in East Gippsland on November 30.  New South Wales:    Firefighters Andrew O'Dwyer, 36, and Geoffrey Keaton, 32, died on December 19 after a tree fell on their truck while they were travelling through Buxton, south of Sydney. Samuel McPaul, 28, was battling a blaze in Jingellic, in Green Valley, about 70km east of Albury on the border of NSW and Victoria, on December 30 when a 'fire tornado' caused his 10-tonne firetruck to roll.  South Australia: The body of 69-year-old Ron Selth was found in his Charleston home, which was destroyed by the Cudlee Creek blaze on December 21.  New South Wales:  Dairy farmer Patrick Salway, 29, and his father Robert, 63, died trying to save their property in Cobargo, near Bega, on December 31.  A 70-year-old man, named by local media as Laurie Andrew, was found dead outside a home at Yatte Yattah, west of Lake Conjola. The body of a 70-year-old man was found in a burnt vehicle on a road off the Princes Highway at Yatte Yattah on the morning of New Year's Day. The body of a 62-year-old man was found in a vehicle on Wandra Road at Sussex Inlet about 11.30am on New Year's Day. A body, believed to be a 56-year-old man, found outside a home at Coolagolite, east of Cobargo on New Year's Day. An off-duty RFS firefighter, believed to be 72-year-old Colin Burns, was found near a car in Belowra after the New Year's Eve fires swept through.  Victoria:  Beloved great-grandfather Mick Roberts, 67, from Buchan, in East Gippsland, was found dead at his home on the morning of New Year's Day.  Fred Becker, 75, was the second person to die in Victoria. He suffered a heart attack while trying to defend his Maramingo Creek home. New South Wales: David Harrison, a 47-year-old man from Canberra, suffered a heart attack defending his friend's home near Batlow on Saturday, January 4.  A 71-year-old man was found on January 6. Police have been told the man was last sighted on December 31, 2019 and was moving equipment on his property in Nerrigundah. An 84-year-old man who stayed to defend his home in Cobargo, NSW, dies in hospital three weeks after fire hit. His pet dog Bella, who stayed by his side as fires raged, was also killed in the disaster. Three American firefighters are killed when Coulson Aviation C-130 Hercules water bomber Zeus crashed while fighting fires near Cooma on Thursday January 23. They have been named as Capt. Ian H. McBeth, 44, First Officer Paul Clyde Hudson and Flight Engineer Rick A. DeMorgan Jr, 43. On January 24, Michael Clark, 59, was found in a Bodalla home destroyed by bushfires near the NSW South Coast town of Moruya.  Victoria: Forest Fire Management firefighter Mat Kavanagh, 43, was killed Friday January 3 when he was involved in a two-car crash on the Goulburn Valley Highway. Bill Slade, a 60-year-old father of two from Wonthaggi was fighting fires with Parks Victoria at Omeo when he died on January 11. He has been remembered as one of the longest serving, most experienced and fittest firefighters.   South Australia:  Well-known outback pilot Dick Lang, 78, and his 43-year-old son, Adelaide surgeon Clayton Lang, died in the Kangaroo Island bushfire after their car was trapped by flames.   
