climate change
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  22:59, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8033375/Coal-exports-likely-2050-Albanese.html }
Opposition Leader Anthony Albanese believes Australia could still be exporting coal in 2050, even under Labor's net zero emissions target. Mr Albanese reaffirmed Labor's 2050 target on Friday, although he is yet to release any details on how this will be achieved, drawing criticism from the Morrison government. Asked on ABC television's Insiders program on Sunday whether Australia would still be exporting coal in 2050, Mr Albanese replied: "I suspect we will." "That will be determined by the market and by international agreement." He said Labor's plan is an economy-wide target that would bring in both transport and agriculture. But when asked whether this would result in less livestock farming and meat and dairy consumption, Mr Albanese said: "These things will be worked out on the way through." He said international scientists say dangerous climate change would result in a 25 per cent contraction in the global economy. "A worse impact that the Great Depression," he said. Labor's long-term plan for zero emissions is backed by all the states and territories and business groups like the Business Council of Australia. Countries like the UK and Canada also back such an aim. But he said Labor didn't think it was necessary to return to a carbon price and it wasn't a commitment it took to the last election. Finance Minister Mathias Cormann described Mr Albanese's emissions target as "reckless and irresponsible", copying the approach of his predecessor Bill Shorten at the last election, where he put forward targets without any costings or assessment of the impact on jobs and electricity prices. He said the Morrison government is focused on implementing its 2030 target and the policies that are needed to meet and beat that. "We will also be finalising our approach to longer term emissions reduction targets in time for COP 26 in Glasgow later this year," he told Sky News. Asked whether he was not ruling out a net zero emissions target by 2050, Senator Cormann said: "Right now, I'm not ruling anything in or ruling anything out." "There is a body of work to be done to ensure that our policy commitments are both environmentally effective and economically responsible." Former Liberal prime minister Malcolm Turnbull took to Twitter to weigh in on a topic that lost him his party's leadership. He said the bottom line is if net zero emissions is not achieved by 2050 "the planet will be uninhabitable for billions of people". To get there he said needs "engineering and economics NOT ideology and idiocy". "Cheapest, cleanest form of energy today is renewables plus storage and is getting cheaper. So transition to clean and cheaper electricity. Couple that with electrification of industry as well as green hydrogen," he tweeted. 
