climate change
{ By Associated Press   Published:  11:48, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8032063/Ryanair-CEO-criticized-singling-Muslim-men-threat.html }
LONDON (AP) - Ryanair chief executive Michael O퀽eary is facing criticism for suggesting Muslim men should be singled out for extra scrutiny at airports. The boss of the Irish budget carrier told Saturday큦 Times of London that families with young children should not be subjected to airport security checks because there was "zero" chance of them being bombers. He said terrorists "will generally be males of a Muslim persuasion." "Thirty years ago it was the Irish," he said. "If that is where the threat is coming from, deal with the threat." The Muslim Council of Britain called the comments "racist and discriminatory." Tell Mama, a charity that monitors hate incidents against Muslims, said O퀽eary큦 "flippant" comments could harm Ryanair큦 business. Labour Party lawmaker Khalid Mahmood said O퀽eary was "being very blinkered and is actually encouraging racism." O퀽eary has a history of provocative remarks that keep Ryanair큦 name in the headlines. FILE - In this Sept. 12, 2018 file photo, a Ryanair plane parks at the airport in Weeze, Germany. Europe's busiest airline, Ryanair, said Monday Feb. 3, 2020, that the grounding of the new Boeing Max jets will delay its growth targets. The budget carrier, which is based in Ireland and carries more passengers than any other airline in Europe, plans to extend by a year or two its target of flying 200 million people per year. (AP Photo/Martin Meissner, File) In a wide-ranging interview with the Times, O퀽eary branded most airport security "utterly useless," complained that airlines unfairly got the blame for climate change, and said requirements that Ryanair큦 Dublin offices have disabled access to all floors were "nonsense." FILE - In this file photo dated Wednesday, March 26, 2014, Chief Executive of Ryanair, Michael O'Leary speaks after a press conference in London. O'Leary is facing criticism for suggesting Muslim men should be singled out for extra scrutiny checks at airports, following his interview published Saturday Feb. 22, 2020, in Times of London. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth, FILE) FILE - In this Wednesday March 26, 2014 file photo, Chief Executive of Dublin based airline Ryanair, Michael O'Leary poses during an interview in London. O'Leary is facing criticism for suggesting Muslim men should be singled out for extra scrutiny checks at airports, following his interview published Saturday Feb. 22, 2020, in Times of London. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth, File) 
