climate change
{ By Jack Wright For Mailonline   Published:  09:59, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8031679/Water-ravaged-regions-told-little-rain-cause-floods-deluge-hammers-UK.html }
Water-ravaged regions are warned that even a little rain will cause further flooding today as a torrential deluge and winds of up to 75mph hammer Britain for the third weekend in a row after Storms Ciara and Dennis.    There are 90 flood warnings and 153 flood alerts in place through to Monday, as well as two severe warnings, while many communities in England have been left reeling as 141 percent of its February rain has fallen already.   Now the Met Office has forecast yet more misery, with severe weather warnings and alerts in place for north Wales, parts of Cumbria in northwest England, and parts of Yorkshire.  It has also warned that even a small amount of rain in areas deluged as Storms Ciara and Dennis ravaged the country could lead to yet more flooding owing to such wet ground. The Environment Agency has warned of severe flooding along the River Lugg, which flows through the Welsh border town of Presteigne then through Herefordshire to the south of Leominster. It has also warned of severe flooding along the River Wye, which stretches 130 miles from Plynlimon in central Wales to the Severn estuary, as parts run along the border with England. There are road closures in place throughout north Wales after the region was hit by overnight rain, including in Gwynedd, while rivers in Conwy, Denbighshire, Powys, and Wrexham could be worst affected by flooding.  Despite the horrendous weather, revellers continued to party through Friday into the early hours of today. People trying to enjoy themselves in Leeds last night were also hit by strong winds and rain.     Young women were pictured trying to shelter under umbrellas which had been turned inside-out by the wind, while others used their coats as makeshift head protection as they stepped out in high heels and mini skirts. Other photos showed a couple stumbling down the street while being battered by gales and rain, while one better prepared woman wore a transparent rain coat . Most of the country, and Northern Ireland, will be swept away by gales through to Monday, while rains that clear temporarily this afternoon in the southwest are expected to hit the region tonight with a vengeance.   Blankets of snow and ice are also expected to cover the Highlands, while other parts of Scotland will be thoroughly soaked in cold wintry showers as strong winds persist through to tomorrow. There are also warnings in place for strong winds in Scotland, Northern Ireland, and northern England, with gusts expected to reach at least 50mph, and perhaps even as high as 75mph. A yellow warning is in force for snow and ice across much of Scotland above 200m today. Luke Miall, a meteorologist at the Met Office, has warned that 'even small amounts of rain could lead to some further flooding just because the ground is so wet after the recent wet weather that we've been seeing'.    He said that southern England, Wales, the Midlands, and East Anglia, were looking drier for today, before conditions deteriorate tomorrow through to Monday. 'On Sunday we are going to see the wetter weather transfer further south,' Mr Miall said. 'South Wales will probably see the brunt of the rainfall so we have got another weather warning in force for them.'  Caroline Douglass, director of incident management at the Environment Agency, said: 'This will be the third weekend of exceptional river levels and stormy weather.  'With the effects of climate change, we need to prepare for more frequent periods of extreme weather like this.'  Large areas of South Wales and the Midlands continue to battle extensive flooding and massive clear-up operations have started where water levels have fallen. River levels along the Severn remain are exceptionally high, similar to those experience before Christmas, as warnings for flooding in the Upton area have thankfully dissipated.  These forecasts come as flooding is reported across the southern edge of the Yorkshire Dales, with the village of Horton-in-Ribbesdale cut off by rising water last night.  North Yorkshire Fire and Rescue Service said on Twitter: 'We have two crews from Settle, Grassington and a water rescue team from Ripon in Horton-in-Ribblesdale which is currently surrounded by floodwater. Crews are checking residents and ensuring everyone is safe.  'Please avoid the area and do not attempt to drive through floodwater.' The service also said it had helped four people to safety from a stranded vehicle in Skipton as well as helping with flooded properties in the village of Giggleswick. North Yorkshire Police said the A65 between Gargrave to Settle was impassible due to flooding on Friday night and West Yorkshire Police reported problems on the same road between Ilkley and Burley on Saturday morning. Motorists have also been warned to avoid Billams Bridge, in Otley. The Environment Agency said that river levels have exceeded existing records with the Colne, Ribble, Calder, Aire, Trent, Severn, Wye, Lugg and Derwent among the many rivers where records have been broken.   Honister Pass in Cumbria, one of the wettest areas of Britain annually, recorded 185mm of rain in 36 hours on Thursday, while 72mm was recorded in Shap, Cumbria. Capel Curig in Snowdonia, north Wales, recorded 86mm of rain in 36 hours after setting Wednesday's record for rain with 80mm in a single day. Prince Charles visits flood-hit communities in South Wales as Britain prepares for its THIRD weekend washout in a row with hail and even snow on the way  Prince Charles yesterday visited flood-hit Pontypridd, in Rhondda Cynon Taf, where it is estimated that 1,100 residential and commercial properties have been affected by Storm Dennis.  The heir apparent climbed into a  a water-logged cellar of a home in Pontypridd, before meeting with residents and business owners who likened their battered town to a 'war zone'.   After spreading some much-needed royal cheer in the town - laughing, stopping for photos and greeting locals including a dog - Prince Charles met and paid tribute to the rescue teams spearheading the relief effort. Restaurant owner Joe Gambarini, 65, said: 'He didn't just want to hear about the damage he asked to see it with his own eyes... Sometimes in Wales we feel like the forgotten people so his visit means a lot.' Wrapped in a long thick coat, he ambled through the town flanked by his aides, at one point asking them to take the details of a shopkeeper whose store had been destroyed.  Restaurant owner Joe Gambarini, 65, said: 'He didn't just want to hear about the damage he asked to see it with his own eyes. The Prince asked if he could go down into the cellar, I warned him it was very slippery and I don't like going down there myself. Sometimes in Wales we feel like the forgotten people so his visit means a lot.'    
