sport football
{ By Harry Wise For This Is Money    Published:  15:29, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8016081/BT-chase-Netflix-generation-offering-customers-flexible-television-packages.html }
BT has announced that customers will be able to buy flexible subscription packages  to its sports and entertainment TV channels as it comes under growing pressure from online streaming sites like Netflix. The telecoms giant and broadcaster says consumers will be able to change their deals on a month-by-month basis depending on their changing tastes. So they can switch from a sport package that allows them to watch any UEFA Champions League match they want, to an Entertainment package where viewers can tune into the latest miniseries on Sky Atlantic. If they wish to watch The Irishman or The Crown on Netflix, they have the option of a 30-day bolt-on worth £5.99. They can also get six months free on Amazon Prime Video before paying the standard £5.99 price.  Now TV from Sky has also been fully integrated into its packages for the first time. BT says the updates enable it to offer the widest choice of TV shows, films and sport available - including its own BT Sport channels and Sky Sports. NOW TV's Marina Storti says the flexible packages will 'appeal to a variety of tastes so customers can choose the content they want, with the option to move between each package monthly as their needs change.' Prices at BT start from £10 for an Entertainment Package, while those with deep pockets who are both movie and sports buffs can pay the £60 VIP rate to access all BT Sport and Sky Cinema channels.  This financial model has been gradually exerting its dominance on the media industry in recent years with the rise of streaming giants like Netflix and Apple TV+ providing stiff competition for television networks.  Technology expert and industry analyst Paolo Pescatore from PP Foresight said the changes weren't a surprise: 'Aggregation is the holy grail. BT has done a superb job of introducing some novel features and bringing together key services all in one place. This will strongly resonate with users,' he commented. 'It is set to be a bumper year in video/TV services as all providers seek to differentiate their offerings. More so with the arrival of new video streaming services like Disney+ and others returning and strengthening their respective TV platforms.' Disney+ launched in November 2019 gaining 10 million subscribers on its first day of operation. It eventually became so popular that Barclays Bank was valuing the platform at over $100billion two months later. Apple TV+ also started that month and has around 34 million subscribers who can watch blockbuster productions like The Morning Show starring Jennifer Aniston, Reese Witherspoon, and Steve Carrell.   Britbox also had its UK inauguration in November. It is considered a 'niche streaming service' due to its exclusive focus on British films and television shows. American viewers Wolf Hall, Broadchurch and Love Island are among the popular dramas being shown on the platform, which Britons can access for £5.99 a month. Shares in BT rose a modest 0.1 per cent to 154p. 
