sport football
{ By Jack Newman For Mailonline   Published:  11:13, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8015747/Kylian-Mbappes-Real-Madrid-backed-legend-Luis-Figo.html }
Kylian Mbappe's mooted move to Real Madrid has been backed by one of their club legends - Luis Figo. Paris Saint-Germain forward Mbappe was hailed as one of the best in the world by Figo, who spent five years at the Bernabeu after a controversial move from Barcelona for a then-world-record fee. Mbappe, 21, has long been linked with a move away from Paris, and Florentino Perez  is keen to sign him in 2021 when he will have one year left on his contract. Ligue 1 appearances: 18 Goals: 15, assists: 6 Champions League appearances: 5 Goals: 5, assists: 4  Figo, 47, threw his support behind the move, telling French site RMC Sport: 'Mbappe is a young player, one of the best in the world and one of the most expensive. 'He is in a team which has no financial problems, I do not know if it will be possible to sign him. 'But he would be a great signing for Real Madrid.' In his short career, Mbappe has already won a World Cup and three Ligue 1 titles, and he has shone again this season, scoring 23 goals in 27 games in all competitions. He has arguably replaced world record signing Neymar as the main man at the Parc des Princes, and it would likely take a bid of a similar size to prise the Frenchman away from PSG.  Figo said: 'Age does not mean anything when you have such qualities. 'The important thing is that he continues to be passionate about this sport, that he continues to improve and wants to be better every day. It is only that way that he will achieve everything he wants.' PSG will even offer Kylian Mbappe a bumper £41million-a-year contract in a bid to stop him completing a move to Real Madrid.  But his relationship with manager Thomas Tuchel is now under the microscope after the player reacted angrily to being substituted in their 5-0 win over Montpellier earlier this month. Sporting director Leonardo came out in support of Mbappe after the heated exchange. 'I heard things about Mbappe, on his personality,' he told Canal+, as reported by Goal after PSG's 4-2 victory over Lyon. 'It makes me feel uncomfortable. If a player leaves the field, and talks to the coach, OK... He is at fault. We will talk about it and settle this. 'But to say that he is a spoiled child, I don't accept that. Because he's an adorable, very committed person and a fantastic player.' The star was rested again this weekend as PSG drew with 19th-placed Amiens in a shock result. But Mbappe will likely return to the starting line-up on Tuesday evening when PSG face a resurgent Borussia Dortmund in the Champions League.  
