sport football
{ By Will Griffee For Mailonline   Published:  10:17, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8015575/Porto-star-Moussa-Marega-humiliated-racist-abuse-Porto-win-Vitoria.html }
Moussa Marega has spoken about the 'humiliation' and 'hurt' he felt when racially abused during Porto's clash with Vitoria on Sunday. The striker heard racist chanting from a couple of supporters in the warm-up and that number grew exponentially when he scored in the 2-1 win.  Team-mates and opposition players tried to restrain Marega as he tried to walk off the pitch but he was eventually escorted to the dressing room by staff.  The shocking abuse made Marega feel unable to continue and he was visibly distraught when putting two thumbs down to the supporters as the noise grew louder.   He told RMC Sport: 'I felt like total s---. It was a massive humiliation, and it really hurt. 'It started from the beginning, at the warm-up. It was a couple of people. However, when you see and hear two or three shouting monkey stuff or racist insults, I guess that happens to many players on the football field. 'I could not care less if it is only two or three, but the entire stadium? It is not even possible to keep playing when people are mocking the colour of your skin. It is impossible.' Marega's goal ended up being the winner for Porto but the game was overshadowed by the racist abuse.  In the immediate aftermath he took to social media, posting on Instagram: 'I'd like to tell those idiots that came to the stadium to shout racist abuse... go f*** yourself. 'I also want to congratulate the referee for not protecting me and showing me a yellow card because I'm defending my skin colour. 'I hope I never meet him again on a football pitch!! YOU'RE A DISGRACE!!!' There has been a massive outcry over the abhorrent behaviour and even Portugal's Prime Minister Antonio Costa added his condemnation.   He wrote on his Twitter account that 'all and any acts of racism are a crime and are intolerable.' 'No human being should be subjected to this humiliation,' added Costa, whose father was from Mozambique. 'We cannot just stand by.' Age - 28 Nationality - Malian Position - Striker  Goals this season - 7 Assists this season - 6  Some chose to criticise the other players on the pitch for not walking off with Marega and instead trying to force him to play on.  Kick It Out posted: 'This is really tough to watch. The blatant disregard for protocol is unnacceptable, and players should be united and walk off together in their condemnation of racism, instead of this. We stand with Moussa Marega.  The monkey noises aimed at Marega prompted the 28-year-old striker to make a stand and his decision to walk off was front page news on the major publications in Portugal.  O Jogo and Record wrote: 'I felt like s***' as their headline and Abola ran with Marega's 'humiliation' line. Porto said in a statement they by Marega, adding they were 'compelled to take drastic action' after repeated racist slurs. The club said the insults were 'a low point in the recent history of Portuguese soccer and must be punished appropriately.'  And manager Sergio Conceicao confirmed Marega's point that the abuse first started during the warm-up, adding: 'We are a family, whatever our nationality, skin color, height, hair color,' he said. 'What happened here was pitiful.' Police are scouring closed circuit CCTV footage to identify abusers and are continuing their investigation.  
