{ By Sean O'grady For Mailonline   Published:  17:16, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8013291/Victoria-Pendleton-joins-Liam-Payne-red-carpet-Laureus-World-Sports-Awards.html }
She's a former Olympic cyclist whose track career saw her decorated with medals. And Victoria Pendleton showed off her array of inkings as she walked the red carpet alongside Liam Payne at the 2020 Laureus World Sports Awards ceremony in Berlin on Monday. The sport star, 39, was a sight to behold at the event, donning a black sleeveless dress with a lace, embroidered detail along the neckline. The garment also featured a small train while Victoria added to her outfit with a matching black clutch bag. Styling her blonde locks into an updo, Victoria also sported a pair of diamond stud earrings. Victoria displayed her tattoos on the red carpet which included a dramatic Medusa tattoo on her right shoulder and a deer head on her forearm. Meanwhile, Liam cut a dapper figure in a bright red blazer which he wore with matching trousers over a white shirt.  Sporting a silver triangle necklace, the former One Direction star, 26, donned a pair of black boots. Also in attendance at the awards was Hugh Grant who looked in good spirits as he arrived on the red carpet. The Gentlemen actor, 59, wore a black blazer with matching trousers along with a crisp white shirt.  Tony Hawk attended the awards alongside his wife Catherine Goodman, with the retired skateboarder wrapping an arm around his other half. The stuntman, 51, sported a classic black suit with a dark grey shirt while Catherine wore a black dress under a white striped coat. Jessica Ennis-Hill was a vision for the awards, wearing a black sheer short-sleeved dress with a detailed floral print. The track and field athlete, 34, also wore a pair of silver open toed heels while she let her brunette locks fall loose down her shoulders. Sports presenter Amanda Davies cut a glamorous figure on the red carpet in a purple shimmering blazer dress. Adding height to her frame with a pair of black, open-toed heels, Amanda looked nothing short of sensational as she posed for photographers. After her cycling career ended, Victoria Pendleton switched to horse riding, qualifying as an amateur jockey. In 2016 she achieved her goal of taking part in the Foxhunter Chase at Cheltenham. On her left forearm she sports a horse in full flight – first unveiled in June 2018 on Epsom Derby Day. Only the previous month Miss Pendleton pulled out of a charity expedition to climb Everest, suffering from oxygen deprivation at 20,977ft. 
