{ By Isabella Nikolic For Mailonline   Published:  15:17, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8012941/Teenager-raped-murdered-football-coach-18-stabbed-eight-times.html }
The son of a former Staffordshire police officer has admitted he raped an 18-year-old football coach twice before strangling her and stabbing her nine times in her neck and back.  Megan Newton's body was discovered in her flat on April 20 last year after police and ambulance crews dashed to her home on Fletcher Road, in Stoke-on-Trent. Today, Joseph Trevor, 19, of Trentham, Stoke-on-Trent, pleaded guilty to two counts of rape and one count of murder.   Stafford Crown Court heard Megan had invited Trevor, an 'old school acquaintance', back to her flat 'as an act of kindness' after he got so intoxicated on drink and drugs he could not go home. But he then raped her and strangled her before stabbing her in the neck and back nine times before fleeing the scene leaving Megan to die. Prosecutor Adrian Keeling QC said there had been 'no sense of offering him anything sexual at all' when they returned to her flat at around 4am.   Mr Keeling said: 'This defendant raped and then murdered Megan Newton in the early hours of April 20 last year at her flat. 'She had invited him back there as an act of kindness because he had got so drunk from drink and drugs that he could not face going home to his parents. 'He raped her vaginally and anally, strangled her and then stabbed her in the back nine times. He then left her naked and splayed on the bed. 'On CCTV, his appearance leaving the flat was remarkably composed.'  He had been drinking as well as taking ketamine and possibly cocaine and had been picked up by police.   The court heard Trevor walked for 15 minutes before he came to a bridge over the A500 in Stoke, where he sat down for some time and drew the attention of a driver. Police were called and he was assessed by a mental health team who did not think he was suffering from any acute mental health condition. At this stage he was not suspected of Ms Newton's murder. Trevor broke down in tears in the dock as he pleaded guilty to the charges at Stafford Crown Court.   Judge Michael Chambers QC adjourned the case until this afternoon after Trevor entered his guilty pleas. Her family previously told of their heartbreak at the death of football-obsessed Megan, who supported Stoke City and coached an under-sevens team. In a statement, they said: 'Our hearts are broken. Meg was a beautiful young woman who had everything to live for. 'She was in the prime of life, so precious and loving. We adored her. 'She was into sport in a big way. She loved playing football and used to give up her weekends to work as an assistant coach for the under 7s. 'She loved working with children and was studying sports at college as well as holding three jobs down at the same time. 'Meg had plans for the future - she was so independent and knew what she wanted to do with her life. 'We were all behind her every step of the way and would have done anything for her. 'She was a young woman in the prime of life, so precious and loving and such a big part of our lives. 'Family meant everything to Meg and we're all struggling with what's happened. It just doesn't feel real.' At the time, floral tributes were left outside the flats where Megan's body was found. One read: 'Rest in paradise, you angel.' Stoke City supporters held a minute's applause for Megan before last season's Premier League match with Norwich City.  
