sport football
{ By Toby Miles For Mailonline   Published:  11:22, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8012255/Ole-Gunnar-Solskjaer-takes-aim-Mino-Raiola-fuelled-talk-Paul-Pogbas-Man-United-exit.html }
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has hit back at Mino Raiola, insisting Paul Pogba's future is in Manchester United's hands, not the agent's.  Raiola has repeatedly fired jabs at United during a roller-coaster season at Old Trafford, as Pogba's hunger for Champions League football threatens to go unsatisfied once again.   The Frenchman has been plagued by injury, featuring just eight times this season. Without Europa League victory or a top-four finish, an exit looks inevitable.  United and Raiola have already clashed this year after the Premier League side  missed out on the signing of Erling Haaland.  'Paul is our player and not Mino's,' Solskjaer said.  'I haven't sat down and told Paul to tell his agent what to say. I've not spoken to Mino, that's for sure.' Pogba last took to the field on Boxing Day, making a 45-minute cameo during a 4-1 win over Newcastle. Premier League apps: 7 League Cup apps: 1  Minutes: 610 Starts: 6 Goals: 0  Assists: 2   The ankle injury that had already wrecked his season cropped again though, and he has missed another six games after more surgery.  The World Cup winner is battling to return for the Manchester derby in March, with Sportsmail revealing Pogba is desperate to join the United squad for the final weeks of the season.   United have sunk to ninth ahead of their clash with top-four rivals Chelsea on Monday, and Raiola has warned their form must turn around soon to keep Pogba.   'He never lost his smile, but clearly a great player doesn't go to Manchester United only to not challenge for the Champions League or the Premier League title,' the agent told Italian media.  'It would be bull for me not to admit Paul wants to stay at the highest level.'   Raiola also revealed that Juventus were among several of Europe's elite clubs interested in the midfielder, saying that he 'speaks to to Juve about Pogba'.  The Frenchman made his rise to stardom in Turin, and with close friends such as Paolo Dybala, Juan Cuadrado and Gonzalo Higuain still playing for Juve, they look to be his mostly likely exit route.  According to Gazzette dello Sport, Juventus are willing to part with £125m plus Aaron Ramsey and Adrien Rabiot to bring Pogba back to Serie A.   His tricks, long-range screamers, midfield power and personality lit up the Italian league during his four seasons with Juve, winning Serie A at every attempt and reaching the Champions League final.  That type of form is something United fans are yet to see after Pogba's then-world-record £89m transfer in 2016, and they may be left wondering what could have been if he quits in the summer.  
