sport football
{ By Chloe Morgan For Mailonline   Published:  15:34, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8009667/Ian-Wright-breaks-tears-brands-teacher-Mr-Pigden-greatest-man-world.html }
Ian Wright broke down in tears as he recalled how his primary school teacher took him under his wing - before branding him the 'greatest man in the world.' During an emotional interview with Lauren Laverne on BBC's Desert Island Discs, the former Arsenal player, 56, praised Mr Sydney Pigden for helping to change his life.  'I know he loved me,' said Ian. 'I don't know why he chose me. I'm glad that he did. Once he come in, everything was so much better.' And there wasn't a dry eye in the house - with listeners admitting they too, were crying.  'Ian Wright, what a tremendous footballer, but an even better person,' wrote one, while a second penned: 'This was so powerful and moving. What a story and what a man!'   A third added: 'Ian made me love Mr Pigden and I never even knew him,' while a fourth penned: 'What an amazing story. I have to admit that choked me up.' The pair met at London’s Turnham Juniors, in Brockley’s tough Honor Oak Estate, when Ian was a naughty eight-year-old who had been sent out of the ­classroom to stand in the corridor. During the interview, Ian praised Mr Pigden, who passed away in December 2017 at the age of 92, for not only giving advice when it came to the sport, but for giving him responsibility, too. 'I used to collect the registers from the teachers,' Ian recalled. 'Then they made me milk monitor. I really liked that. It was really good. I just felt important.'  'Then what he'd do, he'd put me back into the classroom, and then my writing got better. He wouldn't let me play football if he'd heard I'd been naughty in class. He just gave me a sense of feeling like I had some use.' In 2010, the pair were seen reuniting in a video clip that has since been viewed over two million times online - after Ian had been told incorrectly his beloved teacher had passed away.   'I couldn't find him,' said Ian, who dedicated his 2016 autobiography A Life in Football to his former teacher. 'I'd been doing a television show and there was a bit in it where I had to go back to the ground.' 'We were sitting there in a reflective moment and he just came over my right shoulder.' 'The first thing I remember doing is I ripped the hat off the top off my head. Then I said to him, "'Oh my gosh. I thought you'd died." He said, "I'm very much alive Ian.'  Ian continued: 'He said how proud he is of me. Then I hugged him and because he was three or four steps up, I felt like I was seven again.'  'He was one of the youngest pilots in World War II. He was one of the pilots chosen to do the flyover at Buckingham Palace.' 'I remember him saying he was more proud of the fact I played for England than him flying over Buckingham Palace. I love that man. Oh my gosh. I'm so sorry for people listening, I've just cried into this bumbling, crying guy.    'When he said that, he changed my life just by recognising, I don't know what it was when i was standing outside that classroom, that I needed more - and he gave it to me.' Before he headed into I'm a Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here, Ian unveiled a commemorative plaque dedicated to his beloved teacher.   'Being able to unveil his plaque at Turnham junior school was the greatest thing I've ever done in my life,' he added. 'He was the greatest man in the world.' Many who tuned in were quick to take to Twitter  'Wow brilliant listen,' wrote one, while a second added: 'Absolutely loved #DesertIslandDiscs today. Ian is one of my all time heroes ... feel so privileged that was in the crowd to witness the pinnacle of his journey at Southampton in 1991.' A third penned: 'Brings a tear to the eye,' while a fourth admitted: 'Brilliant footballer and top man. He cried, I cried, we all cried.'  A further commented: 'So lovely. We need more “bumbling crying men”.  
