sport football
{ By Will Kelleher For Mailonline   Published:  10:33, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyunion/article-8009507/Louis-Rees-Zammit-19-grasped-opportunity-far-pushing-Wales-start.html }
No player has run out in a Test match at Wales' Principality Stadium having been born after the ground was built. The first to do so could be the boy younger than The Euro, Google, iTunes, four Harry Potter books and the inauguration of the Six Nations itself - 19-year-old Louis Rees-Zammit. So loud has the thunderclap been to greet the arrival of the Cardiff kid onto the professional stage this season, it is fitting they call the winger Rees-Lightning. 'He's got the opportunity to be the next rugby superstar,' declares Richard Whiffin - Rees-Zammit's former Gloucester academy coach who has now moved to the Scarlets. Why? In short, he's big and fast. 'His top-speed was higher than we'd seen at College level on a consistent basis,' Wayne Thompson, Junior Academy manager at Hartpury College - where Rees-Zammit spent two years from 16 - says. Whiffin explains the numbers. 'In the Gloucester academy Louis was regularly hitting 10.1 m/s (22.59mph). At his age that is a huge marker. Top internationals would struggle to hit that. 'Jonny May has hit a 10.49 (23.46mph) for England once. Height: 6ft 3in  Weight: 13st 10lbs  DOB: 2 February 2001  Born: Penarth, Wales  'He has a very good old-school swerve too. He'll get the defenders' weight on his inside foot and then put the afterburners on the outside and gas them. 'He's not a stepper as such - he'll glide and use his pace.' So, there is a reason behind Johan Ackermann's nickname for the flyer who has scored 11 times in 15 professional matches for the South African's Gloucester. 'Johan is awful with names,' laughs Whiffin. 'Louis is quick so he called him "Speedy". The boys then call him that to take the mickey as it's such a terrible name! Otherwise it's purely Zam.' The Rees part - from his mother - sounds Welsh enough, but Zammit? 'That is Maltese - it's from his father's side,' says Whiffin. Louis' paternal grandfather brings the Maltese flavour to the pot. He emigrated first to London, then Cardiff and now lives in Liverpool, a reason for Eddie Jones and England to flutter the Red Rose in the teenager's direction. When Jones called Rees-Zammit to enquire about his allegiance before Christmas it was not the first time England had tried to steal the Welshman away.   Rees-Zammit was born in Penarth to Maxine, who played netball for Wales, and Joe, who dabbled in American Football at Cardiff Bay Tigers. He played for Llandaff RFC until 11, represented East Wales at U11s then moved to Rumney RFC and Cardiff Blues until his move across the border to Hartpury at 16, so hardly had his head turned. 'From day one he's been Welsh,' explains Whiffin. 'He has no English ancestry at all so it was never an option. 'When John Fletcher was in charge of the England U18s he tried hard to see if Louis wanted to play - as he was in an English academy he would've been able to at U18, not U20. 'But he said "nah, I'm Welsh - it would feel wrong wearing a white shirt". 'He's always felt that. It was frustrating to see people saying England should pick him as he couldn't yet anyway.' That is because the 6ft 3in teen has not yet lived in England for three years. The Welsh flag pinned to the top of his Twitter account – a response to questions about his qualification status – removed any doubts about him switching countries. Rees-Zammit donning Welsh red is not a surprise to those that know him, but the rapidity of his rise certainly is. It was only last May when he graduated from Hartpury with a Level 3 Diploma in Sport. And Llandaff RFC Chairman Mark Woodman demonstrates just how young this new star is. 'He'd still be in our Colts U19 team for another year if he'd stayed, but he got snapped up by the regions,' he says. Cardiff Blues lost Rees-Zammit when he was 16. As they had precious little 'contact time' a week with their youngsters Louis' father thought developing on and off the field at the prestigious Hartpury College would be best for his son. In September 2017, Louis - for the record pronounced Loo-is, not Lew-ee - joined and soon impressed. 'Louis stood out because of his physical size and height for a back,' Thompson says. 'For his club and region he played at centre but from the onset we saw him as a back-three player.' For Thompson and Whiffin, two moments stand out. First, here is Thompson on the 2018 AASE U18 league semi-final. 'We played Truro College and were six points up,' he recalls. 'They scored in the last minute having broken from our 22. Louis tracked back from the opposite wing and made them score in the corner. He caught the guy up and they missed the wide conversion, so we made the final.' And here is Whiffin on a try for the Gloucester 'A' team against Bristol, nine months ago. 'He went 80m from the kick-off, burnt everyone and scored right in front of Gloucester coaches Johan Ackermann and David Humphreys who were watching on pitch-level from behind the posts,' he says. 'Before I'd said to Humphs 'this kid is going to be a rock-star – we need to lock him in' and on the way home he said: 'yeah, you're right. That kid has something'.' Described as a 'polite', 'well brought-up' and 'introverted' young lad, Rees-Zammit has exploded onto the club scene recently. He became Gloucester's youngest ever player - at 18 years 70 days against Bath in April 2019 - their youngest European try-scorer at 18 years 309 days at the start of this season and against Northampton became the youngest player to score a hat-trick in the Premiership's history. Now in Wales' camp he is making captain Alun Wyn Jones - who could feasibly be Rees-Zammit's father having made his Test debut when the kid was five – feel very old. 'He was born 2001, so the first thing I did was see what Now CD came out then!' joked the 34-year-old lock. 'It was Now 48. Stronger by Britney Spears was on it!' So should he play in the Six Nations? 'Every opportunity he's been given - U16, U18, Academy, Premiership, Europe - he's taken it,' says Whiffin. 'He's one of those players that will excel. I hope he gets picked.' Thompson adds: 'He is ridiculously young! He was always going to reach the heights but to do it within nine months of leaving College is a first! He's got nothing to lose I guess.' Soon they'll be all watching Rees-Lightning burning up the quarter-mile. 
