{ By Jordan Seward For Mailonline   Published:  12:59, 15 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8007163/Manchester-City-lose-Kevin-Bruyne-stars-UEFA-ban-says-Jermaine-Jenas.html }
Manchester City may have to resign themselves to losing several of their star players following UEFA's stunning decision to ban them from European competitions for two seasons, claims Jermaine Jenas. City were handed the ban along with a £25million fine on Friday afternoon after they were found to have committed 'serious breaches' of UEFA's Financial Fair Play rules between 2012 and 2016. Questions were immediately raised about the future of Pep Guardiola, his players and the club's pulling power to attract new signings in the fallout to UEFA's announcement. Jenas, who was talking on BT Sport on Saturday, believes City will now face a massive battle to retain key players such as Kevin De Bruyne following the decision, and appeared to suggest that some could even feel aggrieved by the club's actions subsequently taking away their ability to play in Europe's biggest competition.  'The interesting thing to me is what the mindset of the Manchester City fans is on how they view the Manchester City players now and Pep Guardiola in terms of their next move,' Jenas said. 'If Pep leaves, of if Raheem Sterling left, or Kevin De Bruyne left, will they look at that as them not being loyal to the football club and think that they should stick around? 'Because from a player's point of view - if all of this is true and that remains to be cleared up completely yet but we have to assume for the conversation - that's not my fault as a player, I have done what you've asked me to do. 'I have gone out there and won you two league titles, qualified for the Champions League, all of the funds that have been brought into the club on the back of these achievements, that's what I have done as a player. Now you're telling me my two trophies might be taken away from me and my ability to play in the Champions League taken away from me for the next two years. 'I don't see how the fans could blame them personally for walking away. If it's a year, I can see somebody like Raheem Sterling saying, "I'll be fine, I'll stick it out, I'm 26-years-old". But if it's De Bruyne, who is 29-years-old, as I have said before and the few others, I think a few are going to really, you know, I think City will have to accept they are going to lose a few of their stars.'  City could be more vulnerable to losing some of their older first-team players in the summer such as De Bruyne and Sergio Aguero, who have never won the Champions League and now will not have the opportunity to do so for at least the next two years. The Premier League champions learnt their fate on Friday after they were found guilty of having falsely inflated their sponsorship revenues after a year-long investigation by UEFA. Serious questions are likely be asked by the Premier League following UEFA's decision, and Sportsmail understands a points deduction may also be imposed this season. City won their first league title in 2012 and their second in 2014, both within the time period UEFA adjudicated upon - but the Premier League are expected to wait for the outcome of City's appeal with the Court of Arbitration for Sport before deciding to take action. The unprecedented sanctions are also expected to hit City hard financially with the club facing the prospect of missing out on over £170m. There is now serious doubt over Guardiola's immediate future too with the City boss odds on to walk before a ball is kicked next season. The former Barcelona boss took charge of City in 2016, with his current contract set to run until the summer of 2021. During his time at City, Guardiola has won two Premier League titles, one FA Cup and two League Cups - but has never taken the club beyond the quarter-final stage of the Champions League. Former Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino is the favourite to take over at City if Guardiola leaves according to Paddy Power, who price the Argentine at 5/2. Leicester boss Brendan Rodgers is priced at 9/2, while RB Leipzig manager Julian Nagelsmann is 7/1 to replace the Spaniard.  Sheffield United in the Champions League? One major question on the lips of many Premier League clubs is who will take City's Champions League spot if the club finish in the top-four following their two-year ban from next season. While UEFA and the Premier League have not confirmed what will happen regarding England's qualification spots, UEFA rule 4.08 says: 'A club which is not admitted to the competition is replaced by the next best-placed club in the top domestic championship of the same association, provided the new club fulfills the admission criteria. One potential solution is that fifth place qualifying for European's biggest club competition.' This would mean Chris Wilder's Sheffield United - who currently occupy that fifth position with a dozen Premier League games to go - are in pole position to qualify for the Champions League if Manchester City end up finishing in the top-four. The Blades were sitting in England's third tier just over three years ago and were playing in the Championship last season, meaning potential ties against Barcelona, Juventus and Paris Saint-Germain would cap off a meteoric rise by Wilder's side. It would also mean Sheffield United could attract some of Europe's elite players which would have long-term benefits regarding the stature of the club. That being said, given Oliver Norwood, John Fleck and Lys Mousset's performances this season, why would Wilder look to replace them? However, Sheffield United's hold of fifth-place could go out of their hands if Tottenham beat Aston Villa on Sunday, with Jose Mourinho's side sitting two points behind the Blades with a game in hand. Arsenal and Manchester United given hope Arsenal and Manchester United's seasons - both of which can only be described as disastrous so far - have just been kicked into life. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's Red Devils sat six points behind the Champions League spots before City's ruling - now that gap has been reduced to four given fifth-place's potential eligibility for Europe's top club competition. If United end up reaching the Champions League next season, it may give Solskjaer a boost with regards to his long-term future at Old Trafford. The Norwegian manager is under pressure following several poor results over the past 12 months. Meanwhile, Arsenal currently sit 10 points behind fourth-placed Chelsea as Champions League football next season seemingly looked like a bridge too far for new head coach Mikel Arteta. The north London club have registered just 31 points this season - their lowest total after 25 games since the 1912-13 season - having drawn 13 times since the start of the campaign and winning just six games. They have also gone three years without Champions League football, with their last match in Europe's premier club competition being a crushing 10-2 aggregate defeat in a 2017 last-16 tie. However, if the Gunners beat Newcastle United on Sunday afternoon, they can close the gap on fifth-placed Sheffield United to just five points. Both Arsenal and Manchester United, alongside Wolverhampton Wanderers, also have winning the Europa League as a potential way-in to next season's Champions League proper - but their end to the domestic season has just got interesting. Carlo Ancelotti's Everton with eyes on Europe When Carlo Ancelotti took over as Everton boss, the Toffees sat in 15th place and sat four points above the relegation zone. After a small resurgence masterminded by the Italian at Goodison Park, Everton now look highly likely to qualify for Europe next season, with spots in both the Champions League and Europa League up for grabs. The Toffees currently sit in seventh place - two points behind Sheffield United and five points behind Ancelotti's former club Chelsea in fourth. If Manchester City beat Aston Villa in the League Cup final, and a top-four club wins the FA Cup in May, then eighth place would qualify for the Europa League. Goodison Park has only seen two European campaigns in the last nine seasons, so qualification for Europe would confirm Ancelotti's position as an Everton fan favourite. But given Ancelotti has won the Champions League three times as a manager, he may just fancy his chances to get his new team playing with the big boys sometime soon. By Sam Blitz  
