{ By Daniel Davis For Mailonline   Published:  23:44, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8006217/Barcelona-pay-92million-release-clause-Inter-Milan-star-Lautaro-Martinez.html }
Barcelona could reportedly pay more than Lautaro Martinez's £92million release clause to snap up the highly coveted Inter Milan striker. The Nou Camp giants are aware of growing interest from the likes of Manchester United and Real Madrid, and could edge ahead of the competition by offering slightly over the odds. According to Sky Sport Italia, Barcelona have already entered negotiations with their Italian counterparts to reach an agreement on a potential deal for the summer. Martinez's release clause will be available to trigger for a brief period of time at the end of the campaign, and the reigning La Liga champions could even offer players in exchange to wrap up negotiations. Inter are believed to be interested in duo Arturo Vidal and Ivan Rakitic. Manchester United recruited Odion Ighalo in a surprise deadline day swoop to address a lack of attacking options, and will likely move for a striker in the summer after adequately failing to replace Romelu Lukaku.  But the club's long-standing interest in Martinez may result in another missed opportunity, with Mundo Deportivo previously reporting that Barcelona were planning on how to accommodate another non-EU citizen into their ranks. The 22-year-old frontman is viewed by the club's hierarchy as a long-term target, with Barcelona also currently searching for a striker to act as emergency cover after injuries struck down Ousmane Dembele and Luis Suarez. The same report states that Barcelona would likely have to ship out one of their current players to make room for Martinez, with Arthur Melo and Vidal taking two of the squad's non-EU spots.  Getafe's Angel, 32, Lucas Perez of Alaves, 26-year-old Loren Moron of Betis and Levante's 29-year-old striker Roger Marti are all thought to be under consideration as a stopgap option. 
