sport football
{ By Jeorge Bird and Mike Keegan For The Mailonline   Published:  22:49, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8006085/Manchester-City-highly-likely-dealt-points-deduction-Champions-League-punishment.html }
Manchester City are 'highly likely' to face a Premier League points deduction this season after they were punished by UEFA. City have been banned from participating in the Champions League for two years and also received a £25million fine for breaching Financial Fair Play (FFP) regulations. As reported by The Independent, the Premier League will be forced to act due to its own licensing, which pertains to UEFA's FFP rules.  UEFA's Adjudicatory Chamber found that City overstated its sponsorship revenue.  Although City's Champions League ban could be overturned, that is unlikely to be the case for any punishment that they face from the Premier League. The report indicates that Premier League committees had already discussed potential punishments in the event that UEFA punished City.  Any points deduction doesn't hinder their title hopes or put them in danger of relegation. City are currently in second place in the Premier League on 51 points, 22 points adrift of runaway leaders Liverpool. They are also 27 points above the relegation zone.  The reigning English champions were found to have circumvented FFP rules between 2012 and 2016. Manchester City is disappointed but not surprised by today's announcement by the UEFA Adjudicatory Chamber.  The Club has always anticipated the ultimate need to seek out an independent body and process to impartially consider the comprehensive body of irrefutable evidence in support of its position. In December 2018, the UEFA Chief Investigator publicly previewed the outcome and sanction he intended to be delivered to Manchester City, before any investigation had even begun.  The subsequent flawed and consistently leaked UEFA process he oversaw has meant that there was little doubt in the result that he would deliver. The Club has formally complained to the UEFA Disciplinary body, a complaint which was validated by a CAS ruling.  'Simply put, this is a case initiated by UEFA, prosecuted by UEFA and judged by UEFA. With this prejudicial process now over, the Club will pursue an impartial judgment as quickly as possible and will therefore, in the first instance, commence proceedings with the Court of Arbitration for Sport at the earliest opportunity.'  City won their first title in 2012 and their second in 2014, both within the time period UEFA adjudicated upon.  Questions may also be raised over the future of manager Pep Guardiola, his players and potential signings. Sportsmail understands that club officials contacted Guardiola on Friday afternoon and his players individually to make them aware of the coming announcement. City say they will appeal against the decision at the earliest opportunity via the Court of Arbitration for Sport. They accused UEFA of ‘initiating, prosecuting and judging’ the case and say they are not surprised at the outcome. UEFA launched a probe after documents published in German media suggested the club had falsely inflated sponsorship deals with firms linked to their Abu Dhabi ownership. A UEFA statement said: 'The Adjudicatory Chamber has imposed disciplinary measures on Manchester City Football Club directing that it shall be excluded from participation in UEFA club competitions in the next two seasons (ie. the 2020/21 and 2021/22 seasons) and pay a fine of €30million.'  City reacted furiously to the development and say they will appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS).  A searing statement released by the club said: 'Manchester City is disappointed but not surprised by today's announcement by the UEFA Adjudicatory Chamber.  What exactly did Manchester City do wrong? European football's governing body say City have made 'serious breaches' of their club licensing and Financial Fair Play regulations which they committed by 'overstating its sponsorship revenue in its accounts and in the break-even information submitted to UEFA between 2012 and 2016'. UEFA also said City failed to co-operate with an investigation into the matter launched by its Club Financial Control Body. Uefa launched a probe after documents obtained by a hacker and published in German media suggested the club had falsely inflated sponsorship deals with firms with firms linked to their Abu Dhabi ownership in an alleged attempt to circumvent Uefa's FFP rules. Are they going to appeal? City have reacted furiously to the development and say they will appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS). A searing statement released by the club said: 'Manchester City is disappointed but not surprised by today's announcement by the UEFA Adjudicatory Chamber. 'The club has always anticipated the ultimate need to seek out an independent body and process to impartially consider the comprehensive body of irrefutable evidence in support of its position.' What happens with City in the Champions League this season? Guardiola's side will continue their Champions League campaign this season as normal. The ban, which is being appealed, excludes City from Europe's elite competition for the next two seasons (ie. the 2020/21 and 2021/22 seasons). City face Real Madrid at the Santiago Bernabeu in the first leg of their Champions last-16 tie on February 26. What are their chances of success with the appeal? AC Milan were banned from European competitions for breaching FFP rules by UEFA in 2018 for two years just like City have been now. The Serie A club took appealed to CAS and it was appealed which allowed Milan to enter the Europa League in the 2018-19 season. But last summer Milan were referred to UEFA's financial watchdog again and served a one-year ban from European football during the current campaign. It will not be a surprise if something similar happens with City. What does it mean for top four/five contenders? One major question on the lips of many Premier League clubs is who will take City's Champions League spot if the Citizens finish in the top-four. While UEFA and the Premier League have not confirmed what will happen regarding England's qualification spots, UEFA rule 4.08 says: 'A club which is not admitted to the competition is replaced by the next best-placed club in the top domestic championship of the same association, provided the new club fulfils the admission criteria.one potential solution is that fifth place qualifying for European's biggest club competition.' This would mean Chris Wilder's Sheffield United - who currently occupy that fifth position in the Premier League - are in pole position to qualify for the Champions League with just over a dozen matches remaining. What does it mean for Pep's future at the club? Guardiola has a break clause in his contract which could see him leave City at the end of this season. Sportsmail can reveal that the deal the Spaniard signed last year — which saw him extend his original contract until 2021 — included an agreement that he could depart at the conclusion of this campaign should certain stipulations that satisfy the club be met. City officials are confident that, despite an underwhelming season to date which has seen City fall a hefty 22 points behind runaway leaders Liverpool, Guardiola will honour his deal. By Jack Kinnersley  'The club has always anticipated the ultimate need to seek out an independent body and process to impartially consider the comprehensive body of irrefutable evidence in support of its position. 'In December 2018, the UEFA Chief Investigator publicly previewed the outcome and sanction he intended to be delivered to Manchester City, before any investigation had even begun.  'The subsequent flawed and consistently leaked UEFA process he oversaw has meant that there was little doubt in the result that he would deliver.  'The club has formally complained to the UEFA Disciplinary body, a complaint which was validated by a CAS ruling.  'Simply put, this is a case initiated by UEFA, prosecuted by UEFA and judged by UEFA.  'With this prejudicial process now over, the club will pursue an impartial judgment as quickly as possible and will therefore, in the first instance, commence proceedings with the Court of Arbitration for Sport at the earliest opportunity.' LaLiga president Javier Tebas was quick to air his thoughts on social media insisting UEFA's decision is 'better late than never'.  He wrote: 'UEFA is finally taking decisive action. Enforcing financial fair play rules and punishing financial doping is essential for the future of football.  'We've been asking for severe action against Manchester City and Paris Saint-Germain for years. Better late than never.' On a night where City were left reeling from the two-year ban, a clip resurfaced from last season of Guardiola insisting that his club wouldn't be banned from the Champions League. UEFA takes note of the decision of the independent Adjudicatory Chamber of the Club Financial Control Body (CFCB), issued today, which included the following summary of its content and effect to be announced as required by the Procedural Rules governing the CFCB:   Following a hearing held on 22 January 2020 the Adjudicatory Chamber of the UEFA Club Financial Control Body (CFCB), chaired by José da Cunha Rodrigues, has today notified Manchester City Football Club of the final decision on the case which was referred by the CFCB Chief Investigator. The Adjudicatory Chamber, having considered all the evidence, has found that Manchester City Football Club committed serious breaches of the UEFA Club Licensing and Financial Fair Play Regulations by overstating its sponsorship revenue in its accounts and in the break-even information submitted to UEFA between 2012 and 2016. The Adjudicatory Chamber has also found that in breach of the regulations the Club failed to cooperate in the investigation of this case by the CFCB. The Adjudicatory Chamber has imposed disciplinary measures on Manchester City Football Club directing that it shall be excluded from participation in UEFA club competitions in the next two seasons (ie. the 2020/21 and 2021/22 seasons) and pay a fine of € 30 million. The decision of the Adjudicatory Chamber is subject to appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS). If Manchester City Football Club exercises that right the full reasoned decision of the Adjudicatory Chamber will not be published prior to publication of the final award by the CAS.' As noted by the Adjudicatory Chamber, the club has the right to appeal this decision to the Court of Arbitration for Sport. Therefore, UEFA will not be commenting further on this decision at this stage. Speaking in December 2018, Guardiola was confident that City wouldn't be punished. 'We will not be banned,' he said.  'That's what I think because I trust in my chairman, with my CEO, what they have explained to me.   'I trust in them. If it happens, because UEFA decide that, we will accept it and move forward.' Guardiola's future has been placed into doubt following news of City's ban from European competition.  The former Barcelona boss took charge of City in 2016, with his current contract set to run until the summer of 2021.  During his time at City Guardiola has won two Premier League titles, one FA Cup and two League Cups. 
