{ By Will Kelleher For The Daily Mail   Published:  22:30, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyunion/article-8005391/With-Billy-Vunipola-injured-Alex-Dombrandt-Six-Nations-call-up.html }
The only person Alex Dombrandt still has to convince he is worthy of his ‘Dominator’ nickname is Eddie Jones. With Billy Vunipola's broken arm ruling him out of the Six Nations the England coach was implored to pick the 22-year-old Harlequins No 8. But when the latest English cause-celebre was ignored by the boss, swathes of pundits and former players - including Sir Clive Woodward, Lawrence Dallaglio and Jamie Heaslip - were dismayed Dombrandt did not make it. Ever-stubborn Jones shuffled the pack instead, moving flanker Tom Curry to the back of the scrum with mixed results. Steve Diamond, Curry's Sale coach, was baffled. After England lost to France many pulled their hair out knowing the most in-form specialist, in Dombrandt, was watching at home. So what does the Quin, who has signed a new bumper two-year deal at his boyhood club and goes into Saturday's match against London Irish as Premiership player of the month, make of all this? 'It's disappointing but there's no point sulking,' he tells Sportsmail of his snub in an exclusive interview. 'Eddie and I talked about which bits of my game he's happy with and what I can improve.   'He didn't say much, just told me the reasons I wasn't in for the Six Nations and that was it - it was a fairly short chat.' And - as someone who has transitioned from a university lock to No 8 - what did he think of Curry's switch? 'I'm sure with a few games in that position he'll get used to it and will be flying,' says Dombrandt. 'It does take a bit of time to adjust, but with the skillset he's got he'll make a good No 8 if that's the route they want to go down. 'I played second-row at uni and when I was younger played a bit of football which helps with balance, and therefore control at the back of the scrum. 'I feel like it's been a different transition but one I've taken to quite well.' Not half. In 40 Quins games since signing from Cardiff Metropolitan University, Dombrandt has scored 19 tries. But his performances have shown more than that - the deft handling, tough tackles, barn-storming breaks and basketball-style offloads have dazzled, hence the 'Dominator' moniker. A stupendous first season saw him picked for an England XV against the Barbarians last June. Naturally he scored twice but was not initially included in the summer World Cup camps. That was until Brad Shields injured himself. South Croydon's Dombrandt was in to train. 'A bit of a strange experience,' Dombrandt says of his late call-up to the Treviso camp. 'I'd never flown on my own. Whenever you go on holiday it's with the boys or family - it was just weird in the airport, sitting in Nando's alone! 'Usually you're there with someone to talk to! It was a case of doing it all yourself. 'Then it was 35 degrees, 95 per cent humidity - a shock to the system! It was a good 10 days, but I didn't make it into the following camps and that was that.' Rather than revel in the rapidity of his rise, from university rugby to an England squad in two years, Dombrandt felt comfortable in the deep end - now as the smallest fish in the biggest of ponds. 'I didn't feel out of my depth,' he says. 'Or that it was somewhere that in a few years I wasn't able to be. In a way it was good for me to have that and not go to the World Cup. 'I've that taste for it now, know what the level is and now am hungry for that full cap.' There is no escaping the fact that Dombrandt is a big lad. At 18st 12lbs and 6ft 4in he is exactly the sort to go crashing, smashing and bashing over the gainline. So it comes as no surprise that when he played cricket as a youngster - his first sporting love - he loved whacking the ball to all parts. 'I loved to bat and hit things,' he smiles remembering days with brother Ben and father Steve at Chipstead CC. 'As a middle-order batsman I could hit the ball a long way! 'I miss it a lot. I'm sure whenever my rugby career ends I'll go back to it. 'Cricket helped a lot with my handling. There are a lot of transferable skills and I think it definitely plays a hand in what I can do today.' Much was made of Quins coach Paul Gustard's 'uni rig' comment - referring to the shape of Dombrandt's body - when he burst onto the scene two years ago. And while it seems that one of Jones' main concerns is over the No 8's weight there is more to Dombrandt than just size. He possesses brain and brawn. The man himself notes he has slimmed down by a stone since then and is not too keen to sacrifice the former for the latter. 'I came in at 19st 13lbs and now I'm around 18st 12lbs,' he reveals. 'It feels better. You can have more of an impact. 'Quite a few young people are focussed on the physical side, but if you can't play rugby you're going to struggle. 'If you have the option of going into the gym or getting a rugby ball in your hands down the park, then I would play rugby. 'Don't get me wrong I'm not saying "never go to the gym", as being able to physically play the game is paramount, but also being able to execute fundamental skills is key.' Dombrandt has learnt that on a path which has been winding and, at some points, downright dangerous. When in Wales he represented their U20s - even playing against England's Curry twins in a Six Nations game - but it did not tie him there. He loved living in Roath, studying Sport & PE, drinking pints and enjoying university life; however, it was over the Severn Bridge his career almost ended after suffering two horrific assaults on the field. 'I was twice punched in the back of the head when not expecting it against the same opposition,' he explains. 'Both times I broke my jaw. I needed surgery, was out for 10 weeks each and couldn't eat solid food for five. 'I still have four metal plates in my face. The second one did hit me hard. There were complications after my surgery and it was frustrating. 'It makes you think "is it worth it?" It's one of the most excruciating things you can ever go through. 'Welsh rugby is a different conversation. You get a minority who think it's acceptable to take the law into their own hands. 'When you're a uni team against men's teams they often came knowing they couldn't beat us by playing rugby, so tried to beat you up.' The first assault saw a Glynneath player handed a 10-month prison sentence suspended for two years and ordered to pay £2,000 after admitting grievous bodily harm. The second went to court, but resulted in no convictions. So while the ins and outs of England selections may be galling now, Dombrandt keeps things in perspective. 'It's good to realise where I've come from,' says the 22-year-old. 'I used to go to Twickenham and The Stoop, watch and cheer for them. Fast-forward 15 years and people are cheering for you. It's a bit weird. 'It's important to understand what's happened, you're here, make the most of it. 'I'll try to achieve something special with Quins and what will be will be.' This Dominator is not done yet. 
