{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  10:59, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8037599/New-body-crack-sport-corruption.html }
Doping and corruption in sport will be tackled through a powerful new agency bringing integrity issues under the one umbrella. Federal parliament on Monday night backed legislation to establish Sport Integrity Australia with support from across the political divide. The agency will bring together the Australian Sports Anti-Doping Authority, the National Integrity of Sport Unit and integrity functions of Sport Australia. Sport Minister Richard Colbeck said it was essential for a well-resourced national body to combat integrity concerns. "Australians love their sport and we expect our sport to be clean," he told the Senate on Monday. "When it isn't, it damages the confidence of participants and viewers, and the games they hold close to their hearts." Sport Integrity Australia will focus on anti-doping, intelligence, education and policy delivery. Match-fixing in suburban competitions, the use of supplements by AFL and NRL teams and cricket's sandpaper scandal are among Australian sport's recent integrity issues. The new agency is a response to the Wood review, commissioned by the government in 2017 to examine sporting integrity in Australia. Labor senators used the debate to highlight the irony of the government advancing the bill through parliament so soon after the sports rorts scandal. The coalition has been mired in controversy over a $100 million grants program the auditor-general found heavily favoured marginal seats. "It is galling the government is in here talking about sport integrity when they have none of it," Labor senator Nita Green said. Greens senator Janet Rice said the government was also under pressure over a separate program meant for female change rooms that doled out cash for pools in Liberal seats. "Introducing a bill in this place entitled Sport Integrity Australia, what chutzpah, while they are in the midst of a massive corruption scandal on sports rorts," she told parliament. 
