sport football
{ By Sam Mcevoy For Mailonline   Published:  17:17, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8000829/Manchester-United-tabs-PSG-boss-Thomas-Tuchel-weigh-managerial-options.html }
Manchester United are considering Thomas Tuchel as a possible replacement for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, according to reports in France. The Paris Saint-Germain boss has impressed United chiefs and is seen as a potential successor for Solskjaer this summer, should the Norwegian face the sack.  According to Le10 Sport, the Red Devils are growing to 'appreciate' the work he's doing in the French capital but could face a battle to secure his services. The report suggests that Barcelona and Bayern Munich are also keeping tabs on Tuchel as they face uncertainty over the current managers employed at their respective clubs. Mauricio Pochettino and Massimiliano Allegri, who are both currently out of work, have also been linked with Solskjaer's job. Pochettino was sacked by Tottenham earlier this season after five years at the club, while Allegri left Juventus last summer, where he won five Serie A titles in as many years. Pochettino has admitted that he would love a return to England's top flight and has been heavily linked with the United job for a number of years. 'To be honest, I would love to work in the Premier League,' he told Sky Sports.  'It's going to be difficult, I know, and for now it's a moment to wait and we'll see what happens.  'It's a moment of recovery, to think about yourself a little bit, and to be ready because in football always something can happen and you need to be ready. 'I'm ready and waiting for a new challenge. I have the belief and confidence that the next challenge will be fantastic.' Allegri, meanwhile, reportedly has a deal in place with a 'great English club' with many believing it is United. Sportsmail reported last month that Allegri has been holding off on an immediate return to management in the hope of eventually taking over at Old Trafford. It is believed Arsenal were dissuaded from approaching him in December as they searched for a manager to replace the sacked Unai Emery.  
