{ By Demeter Stamell For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:53, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7998737/Eric-Bana-former-footballer-Nick-Riewoldt-enjoy-St-Kilda-match-friends-Melbourne.html }
He's a vocal football fan, and on Thursday, Eric Bana took in a St Kilda game with a few famous friends in Melbourne. The 51-year-old actor was spotted watching the match from a balcony at Moorabbin Oval, seated alongside former St Kilda player Nick Riewoldt. They were also joined by fellow former St Kilda players Stephen Milne, 39, and David Armitage, 31. Eric was dressed casually for the outing, stepping out in a black T-shirt, which he paired with brown pants. He also donned a pair of wayfarer sunglasses, and during what seemed to be a particularly suspenseful moment, raised them up onto his forehead. Eric and Nick, 37, appear to be good friends, with the Dirty John actor present at the former footballer's retirement announcement in Melbourne in July 2017. A longtime fan of the sport, Eric passionately discussed the differences between American and Australian football during a November 2018 interview with US outlet Newsday. 'I used to struggle with your game, I actually really enjoy watching it now. I think both sides could learn a bit from each other,' he began.  Eric said the one thing he didn't understand about American football is why there wasn't more involvement with the crowd.   'We do a lot of close-ups of our crowd. That's part of the game. I always feel weird when I watch an American sport - there's a crowd there, so why aren't we seeing them? It's weird. It sort of dehumanises it,' he added.  But he said Australian players should look into wearing protective clothing like gridiron football players do. 'It's a 360-degree game. You can be mowed down from all directions. And we have an inherent machismo thing - we laud players who run into oncoming traffic at full speed. That's heroic instead of pretty... pretty insane,' he said.  
