sport football
{ By James Wood and Jack Wright For Mailonline   Published:  12:57, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7995429/Four-men-rescued-Ben-Nevis-blizzard-apologise-200-donation.html }
Four men who were rescued from Ben Nevis in a blizzard while wearing trainers and without a map have said sorry to their saviours with a donation of £200 and other gifts - after they were labelled a 'bunch of idiots'.      The quartet, described as 'stupid' by Lochaber Mountain Rescue Team, got caught on steep and icy ground on Coire Eòghainn near the 4,413ft-high summit as a -20C blizzard stormed around them during Storm Ciara.  Poorly-equipped - without ice axes, crampons, or maps on them - and separated from each other, discerning mountain rescuers called the young men 'lucky to be alive'.  They used mobile phone app what3words to flag their location, before 22 fearless volunteers rushed to their aid and performed a long rescue operation in the midst of a ferocious lightning storm.  But now the lucky quartet - who were treated at the Belford Hospital in Fort William - have tried to make amends with a £200 donation, wine and chocolates.  They were even defended by the mountain rescue team who said the group 'had very little English', were 'extremely sorry' for their actions and should be 'cut a little bit of slack'.   In a statement, LMRT said the men - who were visiting Scotland - had admitted a 'significant error of judgement and are extremely sorry for the results of their actions'.  It added: 'The guys were just members of the public who perhaps were unaware of what they were getting into. Not being from the UK and with very limited English, a lot of the information available to mountaineers and hill walkers would not have been accessible to them, so perhaps there is an element of mitigation in respect of their actions, clothing and lack of equipment. 'At present money from the Scottish Government is channelled, via Sportscotland, quite rightly so, into the (Scottish) Avalanche Information Service and for training and education through centres like Glenmore Lodge (the Scottish national outdoor centre) and agencies such as Mountaineering Scotland. 'Most of this will be targeted at people who are either engaged in the sport or have an interest in taking it up. Perhaps more thought needs to be given into how to inform the general public/casual tourist about how dangerous our small mountains are and how severe our weather can get and how it will catch-out the unwary and uninformed at any time of the year.' At 4,413ft, the conditions on the summit of Ben Nevis will always be much colder and more treacherous than they are at sea level.  That means that yesterday the summit of the mountain was experiencing winds of 80mph and a minus 20C wind chill while conditions at sea level were a relatively benign minus 4C with 40mph winds.  On the summit it will have been difficult for the students to stand, and their feet would quickly have started to suffer frostbite in trainers.  White out conditions would also have made keeping their bearings almost impossible. Outdoor experts say that even experienced mountaineers would think twice about going out onto Ben Nevis in such conditions.    Those that do will be equipped with crampons, ice axes, thick mountain boots and several layers of high-tech clothing.  They will also have a map or GPS system and the ability to navigate at night and during a whiteout. Lochaber Mountain Rescue Team asked that people now hold back on criticising the four men - who were subjected to vicious remarks on social media yesterday when news of their climb became public.  The statement continued: 'Unfortunately it takes incidents like yesterdays to raise the profile in the media and the message has definitely got out. So there is a positive from the incident. Therefore, let us just cut the guys a little bit of slack. 'For those who call for charging and insurance for mountaineers/hill walkers, be careful what you ask for, as where do you stop? Insurance for fishing, rugby, football all of which have more incidents and injuries than mountaineering. 'Mountain rescuers are all mountaineers who volunteer their services at absolutely minimal cost to the public purse. Insurance would lead to a professional service, which, for yesterdays incident would have required about 30 full time paid people on one single shift plus equipment etc to have been able carry out and then you have the admin, health and safety, bean counter et al - all funded by tax payer. 'Leave as is, as we have a world class voluntary mountain rescue service which delivers via public donations.' Following the mountain rescue team's success, the group called on more people to donate and help ensure the facility is properly funded.   The statement added: 'We would like to thank the guys from yesterday's rescue for making the donation. These were very young guys who without any prompting made a very generous gesture which is very much appreciated. Not everyone rescued appreciates that we are not full time or not paid to be at their beck and call. Stay safe.' Many were appreciative of the quartet's donation, and commenting on Facebook they praised the moutain rescue team for showing some 'kindness to people who have made a mistake'. Prior to the group's donation however, and in the wake of the 'idiotic' climb, rescue-team leader John Stevenson revealed how his team had given the four 'a piece of our minds'.  He praised his rescuers who 'risked their lives' during the 'whiteout', and warned ominously: 'Those four would not have survived the night - no way'.  Speaking of the quartet, Mr Stevenson said: 'It was sheer stupidity. They were a bunch of idiots. We have never had to rescue people in trainers in winter before. They are so lucky to be alive.  'It was whiteout with winds gusting 80mph at the top with minus 20C wind chill.  'We found them several hundred yards apart and had to cut footsteps in the ice to get three of them down.  They were so poorly-equipped it was not true.  'I cannot praise my team highly enough. They risked their lives and did a brilliant job.  Email james.wood@mailonline.co.uk and tips@dailymail.com 'Those four would not have survived the night - no way. 'They couldn't say much at the time - because they were so traumatised. But we have since had a message from the hospital to say that they are grateful.'   He went on: 'They were absolute idiots. They were wearing trainers and decided to walk up Ben Nevis in those conditions! They were just plain stupid.  'They weren't climbing - just walking but I don't think they even made the summit. They were poorly-equipped for any weather let alone those conditions.  'We found the first, then the others and walked them down half-way to where the helicopter airlifted them to the base and we then took them to hospital.  'It was so bad - with lightning strikes about as well - that the chopper could not even fly back to Inverness for a while. These guys didn't have a Scooby. It really is maddening.  'Two of them were particularly bad from the cold. All four would have never survived the night up there.'  Yesterday is not the first time that the team have rescued somebody in trainers - but the first in full-on winter - or other inappropriate footwear. A walker was blasted as 'incredibly stupid' by the team in March 2018 after he called for help trying to scale Ben Nevis in thick snow in work boots. The man was found slipping and sliding by two other walkers. Mr Stevenson admitted he gave him 'piece of my mind.' In March 2016, a 28-year-old woman came close to perishing after scaling Ben Nevis in shorts and tights. Sara Albone, of Brighton, reached the summit amid blizzard conditions and started displaying signs of hypothermia. But two pairs of male climbers spotted her and gave her dry clothes and dextrose tablets to boost her energy, before another trio of climbers provided a tent and assisted her down the mountain. In the summer of 2014 rescuers on Ben Nevis's sister peak, Aonach Mor, had to carry a man to safety when he slipped and hurt his ankle - while wearing flip-flops. The walker's two companions, who said they came from Asia to Scotland to 'see the snow', were in bare feet and trainers. Members of Lochaber MRT found the trio halfway up the 4,006ft Aonach Morr. The men later apologised.  160,000 people conquered Ben Nevis in 2018, according to figures from the charity which manages the peak. More than 1,000 hikers, runners and charity racers trekked to the summit on busy days, leading to 'long tailbacks' at certain points on the path. Hundreds of people took to the team's Facebook page yesterday to vent their fury. One social-media user cried: 'Unbelievable! How dare people put so many others at risk by going out in ridiculous weather conditions. There's been a major storm and snow predicted for almost a week and 4 prats choose to climb the UKs highest mountain!  'Some people may be able to climb in snowy conditions, but add the storm in and that's well out of anyone's ability range. They put 22 volunteers lives at risk. They should be charged. Respect to all at LMRT and your families.'  A UK Coastguard rescue helicopter from Inverness was also called to assist but was hampered by the weather.  The four men were airlifted from the Halfway Lochan off the mountain.  A Lochaber Mountain Rescue Team spokesperson described the quartet as 'extremely lucky people'. They told MailOnline: 'No winter kit - no ice axes, no crampons and as far as we are aware no maps. Three of the guys were in trainers!!!!  They were about 150 metres down into Coire Eoghainn on steep ice and if they had slipped or gone down any further consequences could have far more serious.  'Fantastic effort by the team members to find them and get them down safely. The boss is letting the team members from summit team have an extra sugar in their tea and a ginger nut each now.'  The 'maddening' incident came as Britain was battered at the weekend by the 'storm of the century', which is soon to be eclipsed by a week of projected snow and ice by 'Storm Dennis'.    Heavy snow fell in some regions after the bad weather disrupted flights, ferries and trains throughout Britain yesterday, while gusts swept across the country felling trees and causing chaos on the roads. Storm Ciara moved eastwards from the UK, and it left mass white-outs in its wake up and down the country as the Met Office. The Met Office has issued a warning over the next named storm, Storm Dennis, which a spokesman said is not expected to be as extreme as Storm Ciara but will bring widespread strong winds and heavy rain this weekend. The effects of Storm Ciara, that hit the UK at the weekend leaving more than 20,000 homes without power overnight, was felt by commuters yesterday morning who encountered further delays.  A yellow weather warning has been put in place for much of England and Wales on Saturday, with gusts of more than 50mph forecast and heavy rain bringing a further risk of flooding. A statement said: 'Storm Dennis is expected to bring a range of impacts, including delays and cancellations to transport services, damage to power supplies and large coastal waves.' Steve Ramsdale, chief meteorologist at the Met Office, added: 'Another spell of very wet and windy weather is expected for Saturday, although Storm Dennis is currently not expected to be as severe as Ciara disruption is still likely.  'Our confidence in the forecast means we have been able to issue severe weather warnings well in advance, giving people time to prepare for potential impacts of the storm.'  Storm Ciara has already claimed two victims after a falling tree killed a 58-year-old Mercedes driver and a 77-year-old man fell over and banged his head on ice.  Emergency services were scrambled to the scene in Clydebank, West Dumbartonshire at around 11am yesterday after the pensioner fell over in icy conditions but they were unable to save him. The 58-year-old man died in the storm in Hampshire on Sunday. The victim was driving from Winchester to his home in Micheldever, when the tree came down on top of his Mercedes at around 4pm.  Wind speeds in the area reached 60mph at the time of the incident and the man was declared dead at the scene.  **Do you know the climbers? Email jack.wright@mailonline.co.uk and tips@dailymail.com**  
