sport football
{ By Laura Fox For Mailonline   Published:  08:23, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8037043/Chris-Hughes-AXED-Sport-Reliefs-Namibian-trek-challenge-shocking-NTAs-brawl.html }
Chris Hughes has reportedly been axed from Sport Relief's The Heat Is On challenge, following his shocking brawl at the National Television Awards last month. A source has claimed that bosses feared the Love Island star's behaviour would be a distraction from the charity venture, which will see a group of celebrities 100-mile trek across a Namibian desert. It comes after Chris' shocking clash with a photographer last month resulted in a police investigation, as the reality star was reportedly left angered by being called a 'c**t.'  A source told The Sun that the official lineup for The Heat Is On challenge was just days away from being announced when Chris was involved in the brawl. Chris was set to join stars including Frankie Bridge, Nick Grimshaw and Robert Rinder for the epic challenge, but just days after the brawl bosses contacted him to discuss his participation. The source said: 'The fact this incident occurred so close to the challenge meant there was always the risk it could be a distraction. 'Chris’s fight overshadowed his girlfriend Jesy Nelson’s NTA win for her BBC Three documentary Odd One Out.'  When contacted by MailOnline a representative for Chris said: 'Unfortunately Comic Relief and Chris couldn’t make it work for this years challenge due to filming schedules.  'Chris is gutted it didn’t work out but it was a mutual decision and he has already been invited to discuss future projects with Comic Relief and he looks forward to continuing to support the incredible work they do in the near future.' Last month Chris was involved in the explosive brawl with a photographer as he left the National Television Awards. The star was seen to launch a shocking attack after he was called 'a c**t', when the photographer failed to capture a shot of Chris with his girlfriend Jesy Nelson, 28, leading to Chris' expletive-laden tirade and a subsequent police investigation. A Met Police spokesman told MailOnline at the time: 'We can confirm that at 03:52hrs on Wednesday, 29 January, police received a report of assault and criminal damage following an altercation between two men at Waterview Drive, Greenwich... 'The incident is reported to have taken place at a time between 23:00hrs on Tuesday, 28 January and 01:00hrs on Wednesday, 29 January...  'The reported criminal damage relates to photographic equipment. There were no reported injuries. There have been no arrests. Enquiries continue.' Despite the clash, all seemed to be well for Chris several days later as he resumed filming for a television project which he shared on social media. During the row, Chris - formerly a farmer from Gloucestershire before finding fame on Love Island in 2017 - insisted: 'I'm a nice guy from the Cotswolds... 'I'm not a p***y, I'm not gonna bow down. I'm not a c**t', in the scenes which followed on from a row with Jesy over a ban on the duo doing press as a couple. Chris caused a media storm when images emerged showing his attack before tense shots later came to light, in which he seemed to be arguing with Jesy, who won a gong for Best Factual Programme for her documentary Odd One Out. In bid to prove all is well, he shared a red carpet snap with the stunner while adding a baby Emoji and an Emoji with heart eyes.  
