{ By Jason Chester for MailOnline   Published:  10:27, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7994903/Romeo-Beckham-reveals-dad-Davids-passion-Manchester-United-doesnt-run-family.html }
Romeo Beckham proved his father's passion for Manchester United doesn't run in the family after revealing he supports fierce rivals Arsenal.  The 17-year old revealed a scarf bearing the north London club's red and white home colours and instantly recognizable insignia while posing for a selfie on Wednesday.  Its presence suggested Romeo has not followed in Manchester United legend David's footsteps by supporting the Red Devils, opting instead to champion a club closer to his London home.  Despite growing up in east London suburb Leytonstone, David, 44, was an ardent United fan before signing for the club and relocating to Manchester in 1991 at the age of 16.  He went on to win six Premier League titles, two FA Cups and the UEFA Champions League before leaving his childhood club and signing for Spanish giants Real Madrid in 2003.  But the support for United has no been passed to his children, with Romeo, his older brother Brooklyn, 20, and younger brother Cruz, 14, all training with Arsenal during their early years before opting not to follow their father into the world of professional football. However sister Harper, eight, has adopted an unlikely passion for the sport that helped turn her father into a household name.  Speaking in 2018, David told The Graham Norton Show: 'Harper is playing [football] every Sunday and loves it. The boys don’t play and it’s heartbreaking. They have a talent but it’s down to Harper now. I get very enthusiastic when watching her.'  Former Spice Girl Victoria Beckham later revealed their children were worried about upsetting their father after deciding against a career in football. 'All three used to have contracts with Arsenal,' she told The Mirror in 2019. 'Brooklyn was the first to say he didn’t want to play any more. And then Romeo decided he didn’t want to either.  'I remember Romeo sitting in the bath getting really upset saying, "I don’t want to let Daddy down."' Speaking to the Radio Times in 2015, David added: 'The other day Romeo turned round to me and said he didn't want to play football any more.  'Part of me was devastated but part of me was relieved, too. He's got other passions and I like that.'  The boys are now hoping to forge careers in their own right, with Brooklyn developing a reputation as an accomplished photographer.  David and Victoria's oldest son has already shot campaigns for British brand Burberry, while first photography book What I See was published in 2017.  Romeo, who left the Arsenal academy in 2015, has previously pursued modelling commitments with Burberry, while aiming to break into the world of professional tennis.  Cruz is understood to be a keen musician, having previously shared social media posts of himself singing and playing the guitar with followers.   He also produced festive track If Everyday was Christmas in 2017, a fundraising single recorded to make money for UK children's charity Make Some Noise.       
