sport football
{ By Jeff Powell for the Daily Mail    Published:  22:30, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7992347/JEFF-POWELL-Act-late-honour-Jimmy-Greaves.html }
Time is running out for the great Greavsie. Sadly, there is no other way of putting it. Our beloved Jimmy will be 80 in barely a week and now needs constant medical care. Yet he is still holder of the record for most goals in the top division of English football, be it First or Premier. Still Tottenham's highest-ever goalscorer. Add on nine in no time for AC Milan and still top scorer across the elite European leagues until Cristiano Ronaldo overtook him only three years ago. Still the most goals for England in the fewest appearances. Still no gong. Still not so much as the doff of a cap towards the most elegantly efficient purveyor of goals this nation has witnessed.  Still a genius without honour in his own land. Come on. Time is running out.  Time to act before an OBE for Jimmy goes the same way as the knighthood never bestowed on his friend and England World Cup room-mate Bobby Moore.  So if this is retribution for his reaction at being omitted from the team for England's solitary World Cup final — heading straight to the airport with his wife Irene instead of to the victory banquet in a West End hotel — then let the FA say so.  If this is payback for the way he criticised the FA — and how he and his mate made a mockery of government on their TV show Saint and Greavsie — let's have it out. As it happens, Ian St John has not been gonged either. If testimony as to the character of Greavsie is required, then these pages have included more than just my affirmation that here is a genius with a heart of gold.  Such natural humility coupled with forthright honesty is not easily found among the giants of sport, least of all in legends of the football field. Greavsie would never dream of suggesting he is worthy of an honour.  His illness has rendered him virtually unable to speak. So allow me to say it for him. Time is running out. JOIN OUR PETITION  Add your signature to give England hero Jimmy Greaves the gong he deserves.  Go to: www.change.org/givegreavsieagong  
