{ By Jeorge Bird For Mailonline   Published:  23:20, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7985107/Antonio-Conte-hails-Inter-stars-following-stunning-comeback-against-rivals-AC-Milan.html }
Inter Milan head coach Antonio Conte said that his side 'proved they have great strength and guts' after they came from two goals down to beat rivals AC Milan 4-2. Conte's team are top of Serie A, where they are level on points with Juventus, but  they had to fight back after AC Milan established a two-goal lead courtesy of efforts from Ante Rebic and Zlatan Ibrahimovic. Inter showed tremendous spirit to take all three points, with Marcelo Brozovic, Matias Vecino, Stefan de Vrij and Romelu Lukaku all scoring, much to Conte's delight.  As reported by Football Italia, Conte said: 'It was a special night, that's for sure. The first half saw us in real difficulty, perhaps more than we've ever been this season, and there was the risk of a hammering. 'Instead, we did well to get the balance back, to understand where we had to improve, to have faith in what we were doing and the credit goes to these lads.  'Aside from the result, I am happy to see them resist under blows and turn it around, as that means they are preparing for something truly important.' 'We can't achieve everything from one day to the next, but we are building. These lads proved they have great strength and guts today.' Lukaku, meanwhile, was delighted as he scored his 22nd goal in 30 appearances in all competitions this season.   As reported by Football Italia, Lukaku said: 'The second half was wonderful. I think we allowed them too many spaces in the first half and Milan deserve congratulations for their performance in the first half,' the Belgian told Sky Sport Italia. 'We played with a different level of intensity after the break and in the end we deserved it. The first half was tough for us, but everyone in the stadium saw the mentality of this Inter, our refusal to give up and our desire to win. 'I always say that the most important thing I do is work for the team. I am here to win, we won this evening and I am very happy. Now we prepare for the next matches.' There is another major game for Inter next weekend as they travel to face third placed Lazio. Prior to that Conte's team are in Coppa Italia action as they host Napoli in the first leg of their semi-final.   Recent arrival Christian Eriksen only featured as a substitute and Conte stressed that it is important for the 27-year-old to build up his fitness. Conte said: 'Both Ashley Young and Victor Moses, because they are wing-backs, don't need quite so much guidance in training. Plus Moses already played with me at Chelsea. 'For midfielders, it's more complicated, as I always ask something pre-planned and memorised for both attacking and defending moves. Christian knows football well, he reads it, but also is not quite at 100 per cent fitness. 'I had thought about using Eriksen behind Lukaku, but then decided not to transform things too much, as it's important for us to play with the two strikers. 
