sport football
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  13:07, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7983837/Sport-UK-washed-Storm-Ciara.html }
Powerful Storm Ciara has largely wiped out the Sunday sporting schedule across the UK and northern Europe Super League matches between Leeds Rhinos and Huddersfield and Wakefield Trinity and Catalans Dragons were postponed along with Manchester City's EPL clash against West Ham United due the storm, which is packing winds of up to 129km/h. "Due to extreme and escalating weather conditions and in the interests of supporter and staff safety, today's match has been postponed," a Manchester City spokesperson said. "Further information regarding the rescheduling of today's match will be published in due course." However, Sheffield United's home match against Bournemouth is set to go ahead, despite what the Blades called "wet & windy" conditions at the Bramall Lane stadium on Twitter. The entire Women's Super League football program also fell foul to the weather as did three horse racing meetings and Scotland's Women's Six Nations match against England. The storm has led to soccer games in Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands also being postponed. German title contenders Borussia Monchengladbach had their game against Cologne called off. Gladbach said that the game itself would likely not have been affected but that fans could face a dangerous journey home. There was no word of the storm affecting Sunday's blockbuster Bundesliga clash between league leaders Bayern Munich and second-placed Leipzig. All four of Sunday's scheduled league games in the Netherlands were called off, including Ajax's visit to Utrecht, along with amateur games at all levels. The Dutch soccer federation said "the safety of supporters and players cannot be guaranteed" amid the storm. Three games in the Belgian league and all second-tier fixtures were also postponed. Britain's rail network around has ground to a halt with flights and ferry services in and out of the country also severely disrupted. Storm Ciara is the biggest to hit Britain in seven years and expected to linger for a further 48 hours. 
