{ By Daniel Davis For Mailonline   Published:  10:53, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7983621/Manchester-United-target-Kalidou-Koulibaly-127m-release-clause-Napoli-contract.html }
Manchester United will have to meet Kalidou Koulibaly's £127million release clause, which becomes active in June, to snap up the highly-coveted Napoli defender.  The Old Trafford giants reportedly failed in a bid to sign the 28-year-old centre back, but could reignite their interest in the summer and trigger Koulibaly's clause. Both Corriere dello Sport and Corriere del Mezzogiorno highlighted the valuation United would have to match to sign the Senegalese international. But according to previous reports, Paris Saint-Germain could rival the Premier League club for Koulibaly's signature. PSG director Leonardo has reportedly already held talks with the player's agent, and the club may be willing to offer Koulibaly a four-year £10.2million contract. United have often been touted as one of the clear favourites to sign Koulibaly, but will likely have to fend off fierce interest from several of Europe's elite clubs at the end of the campaign.  A report in Italy states that Napoli could be forced to sell Koulibaly in the summer, should the club fail to achieve Europa League football, which could trigger a bidding war. According to The Mirror, the United hierarchy will renew their efforts to sign the former Genk star in the summer - with Ole Gunnar Solskjaer thought to be willing to make Koulibaly the highest-paid player at the club. Sir Alex Ferguson, the legendary manager and current director at the club, even reportedly held talks with Koulibaly and was hopeful the centre back would join the club he managed for over two decades. But after a move failed to materialise, United instead moved for current club captain Harry Maguire - and sealed the deal for a record amount for a defender.  Solskjaer is even believed to view Maguire and Koulibaly as the potential perfect partnership at the Champions League chasers. 
