sport football
{ By Andrew Bullock For Mailonline   Published:  01:58, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8036423/Frankie-Bridge-panics-trekking-Namibian-desert-Sport-Relief.html }
Frankie Bridge has admitted she is having second thoughts about trekking for four days through Namibia for Sport Relief. On Saturday night, The Saturdays singer, 31, posted online, looking terrified at the thought of the trek, which she will be undertaking alongside the likes of Nick Grimshaw, Karim Zeroual, Rob Rinder and Louise Minchin. Frankie, who met up with the Namibian ambassador yesterday evening, confessed that she was panicking as she started to pack her bags for the marathon event. Speaking from her hotel room, she said: 'We have to pack what we are taking to the desert to give to someone because some people are driving and some people are getting a helicopter - us. 'So our bags will be going with the other people in the cars in the morning and there is just so much stuff you need apparently for the desert and a load of stuff you don't need so I'm trying to fit it all in the smaller bag. 'I've never been to the desert before and I don't know what I do and don't need. The enormity of the whole thing is just really starting to kick in. 'When I left home I was scared, then really excited cause I was with every one and it was fun. 'I got on the plane, slept and we got here then we went and met the ambassador of Namibia which was awesome and now reality is really starting to set in that we are literally going to the middle nowhere and it's going to be really hard and really hot. I'm not sure I'm prepared for that yet.' Biting her lip, Frankie, who recently admitted to suffering from depression and a mental breakdown at the age of 23, said one of her biggest issues was having no phone signal for the trip. She explained: 'I'm going to have no signal so I can't talk to anyone at home which is such a first world problem I know but that is what keeps you going in these things.'  She also revealed that Radio one DJ Grimmy had asked her to check under his bed for spiders. 
