sport football
{ By Heather Waugh For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:42, 7 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7979951/Busy-Philipps-looks-fit-indulges-game-tennis.html }
Last month she revealed she has finally taken up tennis after years of feeling discouraged about playing the sport. And Busy Philipps was back on the court in West Hollywood on Friday, looking very happy and showing off her fit physique in a red sports bra and floral leggings. The 40-year-old actress discussed her new passion in an Instagram post in January where she admitted she hadn't given sport a try since playing softball in fifth grade. Proving it's never too late to pick up a new hobby, Busy revealed to fans that she had been wanting to take tennis lessons for years but let 'a dumb thing someone said to me 5 years ago discourage me'.  But last year the Dawson's Creek star decided to give it a go after a friend invited her to a lesson. Sharing a video of her latest practice, Busy explained: 'Whenever anyone asks if I played sports in high school, my joke is always that I did plays and drugs instead. Which is less of a joke and more just totally one hundred percent true. 'I never played anything past 5th grade softball. Which was the only sport I ever tried. Anyway. I've always wanted to play tennis but I let a dumb thing someone said to me 5 years ago discourage me from taking lessons.  'But in April, my friend Sarah invited me to join her lesson and I became obsessed. And anyway! Tennis is the greatest.'  Busy revealed that her daughter Cricket, six, took the video while she did a 'one minute drill'. She concluded her post:  'Some of my shots suck and some are kinda great but the BEST is her little commentary at the end of the video. And also that I finally play a sport!!!' Cricket is heard saying 'Go, go, go! Move move move!' as Busy practices her forehand and backhand. The TV personality recently opened up about being 'blindsided' by the cancellation of her fledgling late night show on E!.  She said her manager asked her to call her last April.  'She told me E! would not renew my show after the order was finished in a month. It was effectively cancelled. I was blindsided, especially since the last text I had from the head of E (who’s now gone) was about marketing for busy tonight that he was excited to tell me about,' she wrote. 'I sat in the lobby of the hotel in Dallas and ordered three tequilas.... and I cried,' she said.     
