{ By Joe Ridge for MailOnline    Published:  11:31, 7 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyunion/article-7974409/Just-going-wrong-England-Eddie-Jones-Six-Nations.html }
'No one likes England,' declared Scotland centre Sam Johnson this week ahead of Saturday's Calcutta Cup clash. This rings true in rugby more than any other sport, and given its intensely physical nature is pertinent more in rugby than in any other sport. From Ireland, Wales, France and Australia, to Argentina, South Africa and New Zealand, England is a match they all raise their games for. But perhaps none so more than Scotland. No matter what the context, Scotland always seem to find some extra juice in the tank for the Auld Enemy. But, on the flip side, England often thrive off the hatred their opponents have of them. As flanker Lewis Ludlam succinctly put it on Wednesday: 'They hate us and we hate them.' While Eddie Jones has encouraged his side to use these rivalries as fuel in his four years in charge, as Sir Clive Woodward did so successfully before him, something has gone badly wrong recently. A heavy defeat by South Africa in the World Cup final, which they went into as favourites, was followed by a dismal display in last week's Six Nations opener in France, when the 24-17 scoreline flattered Jones' side. So, what exactly is going wrong for a team who less than four months ago put in arguably the greatest performance English rugby has ever seen to beat the All Blacks in the World Cup semi-final? And, more importantly, can they fix it against Scotland? Sportsmail investigates... Rugby works in four-year cycles. The Six Nations is one of sport's most thrilling annual events but, make no mistake, every team would swap four Six Nations titles for a World Cup triumph. After wiping the floor with all before them in Jones' first two years in charge, England went into the World Cup having finished fifth and second in the last two Six Nations. But none of that would have mattered had they won the Webb Ellis trophy. Jones had meticulously planned for the tournament in Japan, a country he knows very well given he has spent nearly a decade coaching there and that his mother and wife hail from the country. And the plan came together perfectly, better than even Jones could have expected - until that no-show against South Africa in the final. They were beaten up physically, and had no answer when things started to go against them early on. For Jones and his squad, 22 of whom were picked for the Six Nations, that is a massive thing to get over mentally in just three months - the final was on November 2 - no matter who next opponents are. All international players in any sport are highly skilled and trained, so the mental side of the game can often be the difference between defeat and victory. That no World Cup finalist has ever won the following Six Nations in the professional era is no coincidence - even Woodward's winners in 2003 couldn't recover mentally in time to finish higher than third in 2004. England did improve in the second half in France last weekend, so there is a logic that says that first-half display was the World Cup final hangover and they will only get better now. Their fans will certainly hope so. As if the mental baggage of the World Cup final loss wasn't enough to try and get over in three months, several of England's players have uncertainty hanging over their club futures following the Saracens salary cap scandal. For those of you who haven't followed it, England's leading club - champions for four of the last five years - were found to have breached the Premiership's salary cap for the past three seasons, and will be relegated this summer as their punishment after they couldn't prove they were operating under it again this season. They were also fined £5.4million. England have seven Saracens in their current squad - captain Owen Farrell, key men Maro Itoje, Jamie George, Mako Vunipola, George Kruis and Elliot Daly, and youngster Ben Earl. Billy Vunipola would be in the squad were he not out with a broken arm. The Premiership had decided on their verdict during the World Cup but chose to delay the announcement until shortly after so as not to distract England's team from their mission. Whether they succeeded in that is a question only the players can answer. For Farrell, Itoje and the Vunipolas, it has emerged that investment deals between them and former owner Nigel Wray that were not declared were central to the salary cap breach. While the players cannot be blamed for the club's misdemeanours, having their dirty linen aired in public cannot have been pleasant, especially when trying to get over a World Cup final defeat with a Six Nations on the horizon. Sportsmail columnist Woodward described Farrell's performance against France as the worst he'd seen of him in an England shirt, and it is litter wonder given all the mental distractions he has had to deal with. On top of all this, Saracens' rivals - whose players make up the rest of the England squad - will feel rightly angry that they have been cheated out of winning or competing for the title. Some awkward conversations will have been had among the squad when England first met up last month. Regardless of the mental distractions England faced in the build-up to the France game, they were physically outmuscled by Les Bleus, despite all Jones' controversial talk of his side's 'brutality'. England are heavily reliant on three powerhouses of Polynesian origin - the Vunipola brothers and centre Manu Tuilagi. With both Vunipolas missing the France game and Tuilagi hobbling off just 16 minutes in, England were shorn of their most powerful line-breakers. It was the equivalent of Liverpool's football team playing without their famed front three. Injuries are unfortunate but everyone suffers them, especially in rugby. What Jones has failed to do though is find an alternative to the brilliant but injury-prone Billy Vunipola at No 8, rugby's key ball-carrying position. Rather than giving an in-form Premiership No 8 such as Harlequins' Alex Dombrandt or Exeter's Sam Simmonds a chance in Vunipola's absence, Jones has opted to switch world-class flanker Tom Curry to the base of the scrum, thus diminishing his effectiveness at the breakdown too. The plan failed miserably against France, but Jones is persisting with it at Murrayfield. Mercifully, Mako Vunipola is at least back from injury, and Tuilagi should be fit for Ireland in two weeks. Scrum-half has become a problem position for England, something which was glaringly highlighted in Paris. The French treat scrum-half as rugby's most important position, and have always had an endless production line of geniuses in that position, with Antoine Dupont the latest star. English rugby instead places more creative onus the fly-half, with the scrum-half often just the go-between for the forwards and the No 10. Ben Youngs has been Jones' man for that role in the last four years, so much so that he usually only picks one back-up for him in his squad. What is more negligent is the fact he has not invested in a youngster to take over from him in the long-term. So, with Youngs' form falling him in the last two defeats having just recently turned 30, the cupboard looks bare to replace him. New Zealand-born Willi Heinz will start on Saturday and is a decent player, but he's no Dupont and will be nearly 37 at the next World Cup. Scotland's Ali Price will fancy his chances against him. Northampton's Alex Mitchell, 22, is in the squad as an apprentice player, but he'll need to develop very quickly with Jones having snubbed the chance to give the likes of Wasps' Dan Robson and Saracens' Ben Spencer experience over the last four years. Things can change very quickly in sport. Just two years ago, everyone was questioning why on earth England had handed Jones a contract extension beyond the 2019 World Cup when they had no idea how that would go. Had they not learned the lessons from giving Stuart Lancaster a new deal before he could be judged on a World Cup performance? Now, everyone is asking why Jones wasn't given a four-year deal when that contract was signed, instead of it expiring next year as it is currently set to do. The uncertainty is bound to have at least some effect on the coach and his players mentally, and may explain the short-termism in some of Jones' selection decisions. Scotland away is probably the last fixture England want right now, given the aforementioned hatred. Perhaps only Wales away would be a tougher assignment, with Ireland a team in transition. For a team already battling mental scars from the World Cup final and the Saracens salary cap scandal, Murrayfield and the Scottish jersey will bring back bad memories. England's last two matches against Scotland have been two of their lowest points under Jones. The shock 25-13 defeat in 2018 set England on a run of six straight losses, while they threw away a 31-point lead at Twickenham last year to trail 31-38, before rescuing a draw. The fact is, England are struggling mentally right now and Scotland have been the team that have inflicted the most mental damage on them during Jones' reign. The bookies make England slight favourites, but don't be surprised if it gets worse before it gets better for Jones and his team. 
