{ By Martin Samuel - Sport for the Daily Mail   Published:  22:30, 6 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyleague/article-7976059/MARTIN-SAMUEL-COLUMN-exclusion-answer-problem-like-Israel-Folau.html }
Rugby League claims to have an ‘enviable track record’ when it comes to equality, diversity and inclusion. Except fundamentalist Christians. Fundamentalist Christians, it seems, are right out. Indeed, this week, Super League clubs voted to introduce rules aimed at banning fundamentalist religious believers from the competition in future. Maybe some Muslims too, were they to speak up for certain problematic interpretations of the Koran. Catalans Dragons’ recruitment of Israel Folau has tied the sport in knots. Rugby League is so ferociously intent on inclusivity it will keep on including right up until the point where it meets exclusion, and then it will do some of that, too. Folau is all about inclusion, also. He included gays, thieves, fornicators, atheists, liars, drunks, adulterers and idolaters — it’s not a select group really, and many of us are in there on at least one count, maybe more — as people who are going to hell. And it was bad news for fornicators and adulterers, really, because it turned out nobody actually cared about them. Few were troubled that Folau wished eternal damnation on those simply having sex. But Folau roped homosexuals into his Old Testament lesson and that got him the sack. He was banned by Rugby Australia, before getting back at them on a little technicality called freedom of speech. That released him to play again and, as a gifted athlete, he was signed by Catalans Dragons. So here we are: trapped in a hell of our own making, where the desire to include is so great it has motivated some to entertain a far wider exclusion. Hull Kingston Rovers, for instance, who have threatened to sue Catalans Dragons if Folau’s presence impacts negatively on the finances of the league. This seems less a stance in support of inclusivity and more one against losing money, but the two are often confused. Neil Hudgell, chairman of Hull KR, detailed the circumstances in which a legal claim would be pursued. ‘For example, if a title sponsor withdraws, or external investment is not secured or quantifiable reputational damage is caused to the brand of Super League and its members,’ said Hudgell, noticeably failing to add, ‘We’re here, we’re queer, get used to it’. It was almost as if what really offended him was the shifting of his bottom line. To this end, the Super League clubs have voted to prevent further ‘controversial’ signings. Yet what constitutes controversy? In Australia, where Folau cannot play, the Brisbane Broncos prop is Matthew Lodge, who in 2015 was arrested and charged with assault after he threatened two German tourists and attacked a man who attempted to help, breaking into his apartment and causing further damage. Could Lodge land a Super League contract, if he wished? And, if so, is his behaviour therefore more palatable than Folau’s beliefs, particularly now Folau has promised not to air them? Go to Folau’s social media page and it is obvious who he follows. There is no picture of him, but an image of a large numeric 1, made up of the word God reproduced dozens of times. Beneath it reads ‘Living for Jesus Christ. #Team Jesus’ accompanied by a cross. In the background is another word, written large: ‘Blessed’. The tweets are mainly Bible verses, generated daily. Nobody should be under any illusions about Folau’s views, on homosexuality or adultery. They will not have changed. He’s just not going to state them any more. Is that enough? Well, what is our teaching if it is not? That fundamentalist Christians should not be able to play rugby? That the very beliefs Folau said he would keep private, his thoughts in other words, are enough for exclusion? So, who else might echo Folau’s views? Billy Vunipola, certainly. He is also of Tongan descent and expressed his support for Folau last year. Vunipola’s mother is a Methodist minister. Indeed, we can presume a great many rugby players with Pacific Island heritage hold fundamentalist Christian views, because they are prevalent in the region. Islamic scholars continue to teach that same-sex relationships are a sin, too, and Sheik Mansour, owner of Manchester City, is part of the ruling family in a country in which homosexuality is against the law. Yet this is where liberal western beliefs and commitment to religious freedom collide. There will be a great many athletes whose faith will conflict with western ideals yet out of respect, a sense of fairness, and a desire not to shine light on magic, they are not constantly required to square that circle. It would be wrong, for instance, to begin quizzing Mo Salah or Paul Pogba about the specifics of their faith, neither having raised Islam’s problematic relationship with homosexuality before. Their thoughts, however, are their business. Is that not also true of Folau now he has promised not to repeat views offensive to western ears; or does promoting fundamentalist Christianity carry the same life sentence many self- proclaimed champions of inclusion and tolerance would have placed on Ched Evans before his conviction was overturned? It feels peculiar, defending the rights of an individual whose views would be abhorrent were they not so ridiculous. Yet to exclude any athlete for what he or she thinks is surely the most dangerous path of all. What other thoughts might be considered unpalatable in the Super League: extremes of left or right wing politics? Outspoken takes on moral issues such as abortion? Folau’s views may seem backward, but so is exclusion. We think of ourselves as morally superior to previous generations, but we’re still burning witches just the same. Gianni Infantino, FIFA president and money-fixated menace, is promising a new start for African football. He’s going to kill it. Well, most of it.  What was merely a public musing last year is now a concrete proposal for a 24-club pan-African league that will rip the heart from the continent’s football culture, while purporting to save it.  This is football’s new colonialism, with Infantino arriving from Switzerland and claiming to know what is best for a region that is steadily drained of its talent and wealth by entitled Europeans.  Just as colonialists once drew the map of the region — all those straight lines as borders are the give-away — so FIFA will now reshape its football landscape. FIFA’s proposal is for a 20-team closed shop of permanent members, with four additional qualifiers each season. No more than two teams per country will be allowed, and the clubs involved will still play in their national leagues, although how the domestic competitions can remain relevant with FIFA claiming £2.31billion will be generated each five-year cycle is a mystery.  The winners of the 2019 African Champions League, Esperance of Tunisia, were paid £1.93m; the prize for winning the title in Ghana is roughly £30,000. FIFA are demanding the 20 permanent members invest £15.44m annually into the project — or £77.2m over five years, to establish it. Again: how?  Yet this is nothing compared to the thorny business of who gets to play. Count back through African Champions League or African Cup finalists to locate the continent’s most successful clubs, and entire swathes of it fall away. East Africa has never had a team reach the final of either competition, unless we stretch that region to include Al-Hilal of Sudan in 1992 and 1987, or SC Villa of Uganda in 1991.  So in any pan-African competition that recognises strength, the east disappears, and much of the south, west and central areas too. The strength of African club football is in the north, producing 11 of the previous 15 continental champions. The last West African club to win the title was Enyimba of Nigeria in 2004; Mamelodi Sundowns are the sole winners from the south of the continent since 1995; and DR Congo’s TP Mazembe’s three Champions League wins in the last 11 seasons is an exception for the central region. The last club to win it from that area before them was Canon Yaounde of Cameroon in 1980. As the accumulation of riches is always FIFA’s aim, however, success or quality is unlikely to come into it, so the size of the founder members will undoubtedly play a part. Yet the best-supported clubs in the region would also focus on a handful of nations.  The strongest support in depth is in Algeria, where half the top division attract crowds above 10,000. DR Congo has three clubs with gates that size, and crowds in Egypt and for one-off games in South Africa can be huge. Yet Orlando Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs — the two Soweto teams who enjoy a great rivalry — are not always the best performers. Kaizer Chiefs are on course to win the league this season, but haven’t done so since 2015; Orlando Pirates last won it in 2012. What of Mamelodi Sundowns, from Pretoria, title-winners in three of the last four seasons; what of Bidvest Wits, title-winners as recently as 2017, but drawing gates of less than 2,000 for some games? And given how FIFA pressured Cape Town to build a fancy new stadium for the 2010 World Cup, where does that city fit in? Its last title-winners were Santos in 2002 but they now play in the third tier.  Will FIFA really allow an area as wealthy, popular and marketable as Cape Town to miss out? And if Cape Town City — currently 10th — are promoted beyond their ability, which of South Africa’s two Soweto clubs do not get a golden ticket? This is what happens when white men come to Africa and try to take over. Straight lines become barriers and greed conquers all. For FIFA’s plan to work, regions, countries and clubs must be cast adrift.  Famous names, or clubs who have produced great talent, will be outside this manufactured windfall. Al Mokawloon, who produced Mo Salah, have little chance of representing Egypt ahead of Cairo’s Al Ahly, champions in 12 of the last 13 seasons, or Zamalek, from Giza. Will Senegal even be represented? If they are, it is unlikely to be by Generation Foot, the club responsible for Sadio Mane. ‘African football will be able to retain some of the most talented players in the continent,’ FIFA have promised, but that isn’t so. There are wonderful clubs and long established, colourful and successful leagues in South America — but the best of that continent’s talent still gravitates towards Europe, no matter how strong Flamengo or River Plate are.  So these are no more than salesman spiels from a man whose lonely idea is to ramp up the size and suck out the money from any enterprise he touches.  To dress this closed-shop, corporate, cash-in as the saving of African football is the biggest con of all. If Infantino makes it work it will be at the expense of a continental culture and if the history of the region affords any lesson, never trust whitey is surely rule No 1. Marko Arnautovic and his band of merry mercenaries want out, the plans of World Athletics are in disarray, Formula One’s schedule is in chaos and Premier League clubs are getting highly anxious about their lucrative summer tours.  The coronavirus outbreak is a terrible thing, but in sport, you’ve got to admit, it’s worrying all the right people. The transfer window will close in line with the rest of Europe this summer, after the staggering discovery that unilateral action leaves one isolated.  ‘We felt it was in our best interests to be in synch,’ explained Liverpool chairman Tom Werner. ‘It put a lot of pressure on us to make decisions and gave an advantage to the other leagues. It’s good to be consistent.’  Indeed it is, and the Premier League clubs have been: consistent in ignoring a flaw that was entirely obvious from the day the change was proposed. Tottenham are very upset at the BBC after The One Show highlighted an alleged racist incident that remains unproven.  Their lawyers got in touch to say that no evidence could be found of taunts Antonio Rudiger said he had heard during the match with Chelsea in December, yet a segment in the programme failed to make that clear.  As custodians of the only ground in the country where the word ‘Yid’ can be shouted with impunity you can see why they would be touchy. Having returned to England, Jofra Archer’s problem has been successfully diagnosed. He had a broken arm.  Not the smartest move trying to get him to bowl 90mph in the nets, then — and it’s fair to say the medical profession in South Africa has had better days, too. 
