{ By Adam Shergold for MailOnline    Published:  15:30, 6 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/sportsnews/article-7973969/How-fear-spread-deadly-China-coronavirus-affecting-world-sport.html }
Everyday life in China is on hold as the authorities and the World Health Organisation try to stop the spread of the deadly coronavirus, which has claimed at least 563 lives. The latest official figures from the National Health Commission China say there have been almost 30,000 confirmed cases of the never-before-seen virus in the country, with close to 200,000 people under medical watch. With much of the population in lockdown, there has inevitably been a knock-on effect on sporting events, with many postponed or cancelled entirely both in China and elsewhere. Everything from the Chinese Super League football and the Chinese Grand Prix, to the China Open snooker and Tokyo 2020 boxing qualifiers have been affected by the highly dangerous outbreak. Sportsmail takes a look at the impact on sporting events as a result of the coronavirus. The 2020 Chinese Super League season, which was due to start on February 22, has been postponed indefinitely after talks between the Chinese Football Association and state authorities. The Chinese Super Cup match between Guangzhou Evergrande and Shanghai Shenhua, the curtain-raiser to the new season, wasn't played on Wednesday and will be rescheduled. The four Chinese teams participating in the AFC Champions League - Beijing, Shanghai Shenhua, Guangzhou Evergrande and Shanghai SIPG - will play their first matches away from home. However, a play-off match between Shanghai SIPG and Buriram United, from Thailand, went ahead behind closed doors on January 28. A number of former Premier League players, such as Marouane Fellaini, Marko Arnautovic, Paulinho, Mousa Dembele, Oscar and Salomon Rondon are currently playing in China. Some of the Super League's biggest names asked their representatives to explore exit routes out of China before last week's transfer deadline. One that has left is Nigerian striker Odion Ighalo, who signed for Manchester United on loan until the end of the season and flew to England via Beijing airport wearing a mouth mask. Looking further ahead, Premier League clubs' are reviewing their plans to embark on pre-season tours in Asia this summer. Seven top-flight sides - Manchester City, Manchester United, Newcastle, Tottenham, West Ham and Wolves - all spent time in China during pre-season last year. Amid concern from medical departments, clubs planning to head to Asia this summer have said they will follow the health advice issued by the Foreign Office. At present, the government is advising against 'all travel to Hubei Province, and against all but essential travel to the rest of mainland China.' The Foreign Office has also advised all Britons currently in China to leave the country to minimise their risk of exposure to the unnamed coronavirus. Women's football qualifiers for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics involving China, Australia, Thailand and Chinese Taipei, due to be played at the beginning of February, were moved to Sydney. None of the players selected in the China squad are from Wuhan, the deserted Chinese city where the coronavirus outbreak started, and all tested negative for it when they left for Australia. However, the team were quarantined in a Brisbane hotel until Wednesday in line with official advice, meaning one of their games had to be pushed back. It looks increasingly likely the Chinese Grand Prix, set to be held in Shanghai on April 19, will be postponed or cancelled. The matter was discussed at a meeting of Formula One team bosses on Tuesday but a final decision by the FIA has not yet been taken. A number of F1 team personnel are uneasy about travelling to China and though the race could be held at a later date, the tight scheduling of the 22-race calendar will make this difficult. There have also been suggestions that the first Vietnam Grand Prix, set to be held a fortnight before China, could also fall victim but F1 organisers played this down. The 2020 World Athletics Indoor Championships, which were set to be in Nanjing between March 13-15, have been pushed back until next year. World Athletics sought advice from the World Health Organisation before making the decision and subsequently turned down offers to host from other cities. Wuhan, the epicentre of the outbreak, is 370 miles from Nanjing but a number of major cities have been locked down to avoid the spread of the virus. World Athletics said: 'Given concerns still exist regarding the spread of the virus outside China, we have decided not to go with this option, as it may lead to further postponement at a later date. 'We have chosen not to cancel the championships as many of our athletes would like this event to take place so we will now work with our athletes, our partners and the Nanjing organising committee to secure a date in 2021 to stage this event.' The World Snooker Tour has postponed the China Open in Beijing, which was set to be held between March 30 and April 5. It is a prestigious tournament that comes with a £1million jackpot for the winner and is an important warm-up for the World Championships at the Crucible. Ivan Hirschowitz of World Snooker Tour said: 'This flagship China event had been scheduled for March 30 to April 5 in Beijing, however considering the current health and travel situation in China our highest priority has to be the welfare of our players, staff and the many fans who travel around China and beyond.' The Chinese Basketball Association has indefinitely postponed the start of its season, which was due to begin in March, and it could be completely cancelled. All team training sessions have also been cancelled as a precaution. Around 40 American players and their families have been sent back home though a handful have remained for fear of jeopardising lucrative contracts. Olympic boxing qualifiers due to be held in Wuhan this month have been relocated. The boxing preliminaries were set to involve athletes from Asia and Oceania and decided who makes it to the Tokyo games in the summer. It will now be held in Amman, Jordan between March 3-11. An event on the women's LPGA tour at Blue Bay on Heinan Island, set to begin on March 5, has been cancelled. Organisers said the health and safety of players, fans and staff was the 'highest priority'. The men's alpine skiing World Cup races set to be held next weekend at Yanquing will not go ahead. The downhill course was set to host the first test event for the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. The International Ski Federation intends to reschedule the downhill and super-G races for later in the year. The International Olympic Committee has held crisis talks with the World Health Organisation but for now Tokyo 2020 plans remain unchanged. At least 45 coronavirus cases have been reported in Japan, including 20 of the 3,700 people on board the Diamond Princess cruise ship currently quarantined in Yokohama Bay. The spread of the virus has caused jitters with just six months until the start of the Games in the Japanese capital. 'I am extremely worried that the spread of the infectious disease could throw cold water on the momentum towards the Games,' said Toshiro Muto, chief executive of the organising committee. But rumours that the Games could be cancelled were quashed by prime minister Shinzo Abe, who said: 'We will take appropriate measures so that the preparation for the Olympics Games will proceed without affecting them.' Preparations are well underway for the Games, which begin on July 24, and the torch relay is due to start in Fukushima prefecture on March 26. Tokyo is preparing for an influx of 920,000 visitors a day during the Games.  Coronaviruses are a large family of pathogens, most of which cause mild lung infections such as the common cold. But coronaviruses can also be deadly. SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, is caused by a coronavirus and killed hundreds of people in China and Hong Kong in the early 2000s. Can the Wuhan coronavirus kill? Yes – At least 565 people have so far died after testing positive for the virus. What are the symptoms? Some people who catch the Wuhan coronavirus may not have any symptoms at all, or only very mild ones like a sore throat or a headache. Others may suffer from a fever, cough or trouble breathing. And a small proportion of patients will go on to develop severe infection which can damage the lungs or cause pneumonia, a life-threatening condition which causes swelling and fluid build-up in the lungs. How is it detected? The virus's genetic sequencing was released by scientists in China and countries around the world have used this to create lab tests, which must be carried out to confirm an infection. Delays to these tests, to test results and to people getting to hospitals in China, mean the number of confirmed cases is expected to be just a fraction of the true scale of the outbreak. How did it start and spread? The first cases identified were among people connected to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan. Cases have since been identified around China and are known to have spread from person to person. Is it similar to anything we've ever seen before? Experts have compared it to the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). The epidemic started in southern China and killed more than 700 people in mainland China, Hong Kong and elsewhere.   
