sport football
{ By Sean O'grady For Mailonline   Published:  11:45, 5 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7968983/Mark-Wright-cuts-casual-figure-goes-workout-lunch-LA-trip.html }
Mark Wright cut a casual figure as he went for a workout following by lunch with TV presenter Richard Bacon in Los Angeles on Tuesday.  The former TOWIE star is back in Hollywood where he briefly returned to his old gig on entertainment news programme Extra where he presented from the red carpet. The TV host, 33, went for a laid back look, donning a black T-shirt that highlighted his toned physique along with grey tracksuit bottoms as he met his pal for lunch. Known for his love of fitness, Mark shared a selfie from his gym workout before he played football in West Los Angeles. Mark previously gave up his job on Extra to return to the UK to spend more time with wife Michelle Keegan.  But the former reality star was back at work for the show for his trip and reported from the red carpet where he interviewed comedian Chelsea Handler and actress Eva Longoria at an event for political action committee Emily's List. Mark also interviewed legendary film director Spike Lee for the programme and shared a snap of the pair to his Instagram Stories.   Although he returned to the UK to be closer to Michelle, 32, a source recently revealed to Heat World that Mark feels he 'left LA too soon'. An insider source told the publication: 'He was surprised by how much he enjoyed it over there. 'Work in the UK hasn't been as forthcoming as he'd hoped, and now he's concerned that he was too hasty in leaving America.' On Monday, Mark displayed the results of his one month gym transformation as he shared a shirtless before and after snap on Instagram. The TV presenter who is known for his love of fitness, eased off the gym over the festive period and worked hard to return to his usual physique. Mark shared a series of before and after photos to his account and said he feels better 'not only physically but mentally'. Alongside the snap, Mark wrote a motivational post: 'January 2nd - February 2nd. Now I'm not saying in the 1st picture I'm well out of shape but for me I wasn't at my best for sure, plus I had probably just eaten, hence the bloat. 'December was all about relaxing more, indulging in Christmas food and toning down the regular visits to the gym. 'Through January I tried my best to cut down on the indulgent foods and eat a bit more of what I know works better for me. 'I had 2 weeks in the Caribbean during this time, so couldn't fully go for it, as still wanted plenty of cocktails and to not have to spend EVERY day in the gym. I ate reasonably well and went to the gym around 3/4 times a week.' Mark added that January is often a difficult time to keep up with your fitness regime and he plans to train 'ever harder' his month. He said: 'January is always a hard time anyway to get straight back in to it after a whole month of Christmas foods and drinks. I personally feel it's too much of a drastic change, so I do what I can. 'February I will try to go even harder with both my diet and gym workouts so don't feel bad if you haven't started properly yet. 'Not only physically but mentally I feel so much better !! I'm asked frequently about my gym and diet plan so I'm going to post some of the workouts that helped me achieve this change during Jan. 'I hope I can inspire you to try them and hope you can take something from them. 'FEBUARY & ONWARDS IS YOUR TIME !! DO IT FOR YOU !! FEEL BETTER, FEEL HEALTHIER !!' 
