{ By Mike Keegan For The Daily Mail   Published:  23:24, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyleague/article-7967383/Super-League-clubs-confront-Catalan-Dragons-controversial-signing-Israel-Folau.html }
Super League clubs are set to confront Catalans Dragons officials at a board meeting on Wednesday morning amid talk of a revolt over the French club's controversial signing of Israel Folau. Last week, an email was sent by Hull KR's owner to the French club, in which he threatened legal action should sponsorship or commercial revenue be impacted by their widely-condemned move for the 30-year-old, who was dismissed by Rugby Australia for homophobic posts on social media in April last year. KR chairman Neil Hudgell, who copied in the rest of rugby league's top-flight clubs, warned he would reserve his position to take proceedings if sponsors withdrew, external investment was not secured or reputational damage was caused to Super League and its members. It is understood that a number of clubs responded by pledging their backing for Hudgell's position, with one club official telling Sportsmail that Catalans' move for Folau, who was dismissed for saying 'hell awaits' homosexual people after already receiving a warning over his social media posts, was 'disgusting'. It will all make for an explosive meeting in Salford, at which Dragons chairman Bernard Guasch may well face the music. While insiders say a number of clubs are ready to make their thoughts known 'in no uncertain terms', there is also a feeling that there is little they can do after the Rugby Football League allowed the French side to make the signing.  There is also anger at Super League for a perceived failure to give its clubs notice on the move that has rocked the sport. With the row ongoing, Dragons cancelled a planned media appearance by Folau. He did not make his debut in last weekend's season opener and his fitness status is unclear. Following his dismissal, Folau sued Rugby Australia for £7.4million, arguing he was the victim of religious discrimination. A settlement was reached in December. Super League will take action should Folau repeat such comments. In earlier statements, both the RFL and Super League said they 'deplored' Folau's previous comments, adding it was 'a difficult decision' to allow him into the competition. The RFL stated its hands were tied given that it did not have the 'regulatory framework' to allow it to veto the move. Guasch has previously said the French club 'do not support or agree' with Folau's comments. Wigan Warriors have said their clash with Catalans on March 22 would be 'Pride Day' and added they will invite LGBTQ+ groups to help promote equality in the sport. Folau, who plays as a wing, centre or full back, started his career in Australia's league competition, the NRL, before moving to Aussie Rules and then union. His settlement is believed to have been a seven-figure sum. Prior to his arrival in France, there had been little appetite for clubs Down Under to take him on. 
