sport football
{ By Sam Blitz For Mailonline   Published:  16:46, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyleague/article-7966069/Super-League-clubs-legal-action-against-Catalan-Dragons-signing-Israel-Folau.html }
Super League clubs are threatening legal action against Catalan Dragons if there is a significant financial loss at their clubs following the signing of Isreal Folau.  The 30-year-old Australian signed a one-year deal at the club in January despite making homophobic social media posts which resulted in him being kicked off the Australia World Cup squad last year.  Hull KR owner Neil Hudgell wrote to the Catalans last week, with the support of other Super League clubs, demanding that the club put themselves 'on notice' if his or any club endured 'financial loss' as a result of the Folau transfer, which could come from the withdrawal of title sponsors or a lack of external investment.  Hudgell told the BBC: 'I reserve my position to take proceedings v Catalan Dragons' When asked how the Catalans could face financial loss, he added: 'For example, if a title sponsor withdraws or external investment is not secured, or quantifiable reputational damage is caused to the brand of Super League and its members.' The BBC also believe that almost all of the Super League clubs have back Hudgell's stance on this matter.    Hudgell's warning to the Catalans comes following the news that Wakefield chairman Michael Carter sent a letter to the Dragons stating a similar message.  Carter said: 'It stated that if there was any backlash to Folau's signing which caused any financial loss then we'd expect Catalans to make up for that.'  Folau's transfer to the Catalans was met with a wave of criticism following his comments which saw him sacked by Rugby Australia last year.  The 30-year-old posted on his Instagram account that 'hell awaits' for 'drunks, homosexuals, adulterers, liars, fornicators, thieves, atheists, idolaters.'    Fellow Super League side Wigan Warriors reacted to the news of Folau's signing by branding their match against the Catalans on March 22 as their 'Pride Day'. Rugby League (Australia 2007-09) Games: 8  Points: 24 Rugby Union (Australia 2013-19) Games: 62 Points: 160   The Warriors are inviting LGBTQ+ groups to the match, while the players will be wearing rainbow socks and laces throughout the match.   After Folau's move to the Catalans was confirmed, the Rugby Football League said that they condone the player's comments in the past but cannot prevent him from joining Super League club.  Their statement read: 'This is a difficult decision, as the RFL places a high value on the sport's reputation in prioritising inclusion and diversity - and deplores the player's previous comments. 'However the moral responsibility for deciding whether to sign a player sits with individual clubs.  'The player has not been charged or found guilty of any criminal offence. 'However distasteful his previous comments, we don't believe that, under our current regulatory framework, these can prevent his participation in the sport.'  Folau said: 'I acknowledge the views expressed by Super League and the Rugby Football League. 'I'm a proud Christian, my beliefs are personal, my intention is not to hurt anyone and I will not be making further public comment about them. 'I look forward to my return to the great game of rugby league with the Catalans Dragons.' 
