sport football
{ By Amitai Winehouse For Mailonline   Published:  13:30, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8037425/How-Diego-Maradonas-legacy-impacts-Lionel-Messi-Barcelonas-visit-Napoli.html }
In Argentina, you can chart a straight line through their football history. In 1928, El Grafico editor Borocoto said they should enact a statue to the pibe, a footballer with long shaggy hair, short of stature who has the spirit of a child on the pitch. Almost a century on, that description feels like it was best embodied by Diego Maradona and Lionel Messi. In that nation, no type of player is as beloved as those who represent the character of the pibe. But both have also been as adored in a city outside of their own country as they were in Argentina. Messi began his career at Barcelona and despite his recent dispute with the club's hierarchy, is in the hearts of most people across Catalonia. Maradona, meanwhile, found romance towards the south of Italy in the city of Naples — somewhere Messi has never played. To this day, murals can still be found of Maradona across the city. Walking the streets, shrines can be seen to him. People pray at them.   Those Barcelona fans in the city for Tuesday night's game against Napoli will spot some strange sights ahead of Messi's first game at the Stadio San Paolo.  At the Coffee Bar Nilo in downtown, a transparent box contains a single lock of hair. The box rotates. It is treated like an altar. The hair, of course, is supposed to belong to Maradona, having been snatched from the headrest of an airplane seat that he sat on. If it is not clear, Naples loves Maradona. It is easy to see why. He was already becoming known as one of the best players in the world when he moved there from Barcelona in 1984. His arrival was so heralded that a local newspaper said while Naples lacked a 'mayor, houses, schools, buses, employment and sanitation, none of this matters because we have Maradona'.  Napoli had been a relegation-threatened side. That soon changed.   By 1986 there was no doubt, having led Argentina to a World Cup win in his own country. His achievements with his nation were followed by an unprecedented period of success with Napoli. They won Serie A in 1986-87 and 1989-90. He also picked up the Coppa Italia and UEFA Cup in that four year period.  It is worth saying that no team from the south of Italy had ever won a league title before Maradona arrived. Tensions between the prosperous north and the economically hit south were at an all time high in that period.  The importance of football and revenge on the pitch can be seen by the fact that when Maradona scored a free-kick to beat Juventus in 1985, five people fainted while two had heart attacks. Both Franco Baresi and Paolo Maldini, no scrubs themselves, said Maradona was almost impossible to contain when he played for Napoli. Few players have made as much of an impression as him.  'For us, Maradona is more than a man. He's a god. We Neapolitans love football and live for football,' a resident of Naples recently told the Associated Press. 'We can never forget what he did for us.'  Off the pitch there were problems. There was a scandal around an illegitimate son, while his dynamic with the Camorra, the local Mafia, was an issue. In Asif Kapadia's recent documentary, he is shown with the Guiliano clan, who ran the Forcella neighbourhood. Maradona could be seen at their weddings and parties over his time in Naples. His cocaine use also increased while he was there and he would regularly miss games and training, with Napoli dishing out $70,000 in fines.  Still, he was loved. In 1990 he tried to turn Naples against the Italian national team when they faced off there in the World Cup semi-final. He said the rest of the country looked down its nose at the city.  While it did not entirely work, the atmosphere was dampened and Argentina managed to win. The cult of Maradona in Naples is so strong that Kapadia's entire documentary film was based around his time there. It is a story that still holds up in an age when Maradona's actions sometimes taint his on-pitch legacy. That legacy is fulfilled to this day by Messi. Maradona said in 2006: 'I have seen the player who will inherit my place in Argentine football and his name is Messi'. They play similarly. Messi has the low centre of gravity, loves dribbling with the ball, is a sensational goalscorer and has the capacity to win games single handedly.  When it comes to Messi, the question has long been whether or not he has surpassed Maradona as the greatest player ever. It is usually a when, not an an if. Messi clearly looks up to his predecessor. Last week he told Mundo Deportivo that he was excited for Barcelona's game at the San Paolo, the ground Maradona graced, on Tuesday night.  'I have wanted to go to that stadium for a long time, but we have never had the chance,' he said.  'Finally, the moment has come and I'm very excited to see what it's like, even if it's different now. It has been renewed and the people are different. 'The experience of playing there will be very nice. People are very passionate there and they dreamed that if Maradona came there, why can't Messi come?  'Yes, I know the Neapolitans are crazy about football. I had team-mates that played there, like Pocho [Ezequiel Lavezzi] and he told me many things. 'He told me that they live for this and I'm very excited about going there.' The game is also crucial for Messi in pure football terms. He is 32. He has not tasted international success with Argentina, primarily due to a dearth of quality around him, and he is running out of chances to win the Champions League. Sure, he has won it four times but that is one fewer than his great rival Cristiano Ronaldo.  There will always be those who push for the Portuguese as better than Messi, and it would help Messi's battle to be the best if he had the trophies to back it up.  Barcelona have long been chaotic around Messi and that remains the case now. Yet amid that, overcoming Napoli will be important to their push for another Champions League.  Luckily for Messi, Napoli are not the threat of a few years back. Their form has been up and down under Gennaro Gattuso and they are sixth in the Serie A table, although they have won four of their last five.  It will be a hostile atmosphere too. Neapolitans do not welcome the opposition, as much as Messi might look forward to playing there. Having retired the shirt in honour of Maradona, Naples will almost certainly target Barcelona's No 10. It is no surprise that Messi is looking forward to this visit. The family tree of the pibe goes back a long way, as detailed in Jonathan Wilson's Angels with Dirty Faces. But after years of waiting for his arrival, there is now no doubt that Messi is Maradona's footballing son. On Tuesday, he will finally have the chance to play where his on-pitch father is still a god.  
