sport football
{ By Jason Chester for MailOnline   Published:  16:01, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7965683/Kate-Ferdinand-reveals-launch-Sport-Relief-2020-husband-Rio.html }
Kate and Rio Ferdinand have thrown their celebrity weight behind this year’s Sports Relief after highlighting the positive impact physical activity has had on their lives. The couple are set to launch the charity event, which raises money for vulnerable people both locally and internationally, with England football captain Harry Kane, Olympians Jessica Ennis-Hill and Max Whitlock, and Paralympian Ellie Simmonds. And fitness fanatics Kate and Rio admitted their jumped at the chance to take part after using sport and fitness to help them overcome a series of personal obstacles. 'Sport is really important to me and our family – it’s helped me so much recently with my own panic attacks and anxiety, so I know how much it can change your way of thinking and mental health,' Kate, 28, explained.  'I love starting the day with a home workout or family dog walk, any form of exercise sets me up with a positive and motivated mindset. The beauty of Sport Relief is that it is so easy to get involved and it is for anyone, whether you are sporty or not.  'Knowing that donations tackle issues like mental health, homelessness and domestic abuse, makes it a no-brainer for me. I’m excited to be part of this year’s campaign and look forward to getting more involved.' Former Manchester United and England defender Rio, 41, admitted sport had been beneficial following the death of first wife  Rebecca Ellison to breast cancer in 2015. He said: 'Over the years I’ve learnt that there’s much more to sport than winning trophies; there’s a lot to gain personally from taking part.  'Sport has this amazing ability to bring people together and tackle really important issues like mental health stigma, which I’m really passionate about. Sport gives you something to focus your energy on, and speaking from my own experiences off the pitch, it’s positively impacted my family’s lives when going through some hard times.'  He added: 'Sport Relief brings all this together in a way no other charity does – with a sense of fun and humour, which we all need a bit more of.  'I am proud to be part of this year’s campaign and I’m looking forward to seeing some of the work donations support, to hopefully bring more attention to topics, like mental health, that we really need to keep talking about publicly.'  Eight celebrities will take part in the campaign, with Radio DJ Nick Grimshaw, singer Frankie Bridge, TV personality Robert Rinder and broadcaster Louise Minchin the first to be revealed for BBC One's Sport Relief: On Thin Ice.  The four-day challenge  - a triathlon with an icy twist - will involve cycling, skating and trekking 100 miles across Lake Khovsgol in remote Mongolia.  Reflecting on the challenge, Nick, 35, admitted he was initially dubious about taking part, but was convinced to throw his hat in the ring after meeting Frankie.  He recalled: 'Initially I said no, because I saw it and thought “ooh, no!” I met Frankie when we had our ice-skating lesson and we had a really good time so I’m looking forward to hanging out. 'My fitness is going okay; I knew before Christmas so I’ve been going to spinning, which apparently helps with skating. I’ve not done skating since I was a kid, my problem was corners but I’m thinking, in Mongolia, you can just go straight across. But once I start, I won’t be able to stop.'   He added: 'Sport Relief is raising money for mental health charities and mental health awareness. I‘ve had anxiety in my life, and the one thing that really helped me was sport and exercise. I didn’t do any sport from 0 to 28, and once I started doing exercise it really helped.'  Elsewhere newsreader Sophie Raworth, a keen runner, will take on BBC Radio 3’s Beat Beethoven challenge.  The event will see members of the public run 5k around Manchester's MediaCityUK and “beat” Beethoven’s epic Fifth Symphony, performed live by the BBC Philharmonic.  Sport Relief airs on BBC One on 13th March  
