sport football
{ By Chris Pleasance for MailOnline    Published:  13:12, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7965203/Beach-Boys-founder-Brian-Wilson-disavows-performance-hunting-convention.html }
Beach Boys founder Brian Wilson has launched a petition calling for the band he helped create to cancel an upcoming show at a hunting convention.  The Safari Club International Convention takes place in Reno, Nevada, this week with the Beach Boys due to play on Wednesday. Mike Love, another band founder, will perform alongside longtime member Bruce Johnston - to the fury of Wilson, whose name is synonymous with the group. The convention will also see a keynote address by Donald Trump Jr, where he will auction off a trip to Alaska to hunt deer and duck with him and his son. Writing on Twitter, Wilson said: 'It has been brought to my attention that on Wednesday February 5, The Beach Boys touring group licensed by Mike Love are headlining at the Safari Club International Convention in Reno, Nevada. 'This organization supports trophy hunting, which both [founder Al Jardine] and I are emphatically opposed to.  'There’s nothing we can do personally to stop the show, so please join us in signing the petition.' The petition calls on fans to stop buying Beach Boys music, merchandise and gig tickets until the show is cancelled and the band publicly acknowledges an opposition to trophy hunting. 'We will call... on members of the public to protest at forthcoming Beach Boys concerts, unless they do so,' it adds. The petition was created by a fan of the band with the hope of getting to 75,000 signatures, a goal it hit just a day after Wilson first promoted it. The four-day Reno hunting convention is marketed as a 'hunter's heaven' which will culminate on Saturday with the Trump Jr auction and address. It is thought to be the biggest event of its kind in the world, with permits to shoot elephants, giraffe and bears up for sale. A description of the auction prize says: 'Donald Trump Jr and Master Guide Keegan McCarthy, owner of Coastal Alaska Adventures, are proud to launch the 'Hunter Heritage Series'.  'This exciting new program is designed to bring youth/new hunters into the field and experience the essence of what we love.  'Together we recognize the need to improve access to young hunters and create opportunity and excitement around getting them into the field.' The winner will be allowed to shoot two Sitka black tailed deer along with water ducks during a seven-day excursion aboard a yacht. The bidding currently stands at $10,000. Trump Jr has made no secret of his love for trophy hunting, and has appeared in pictures along with brother Eric while clutching big game such as buffalo. The President's eldest son argues that hunting is vital to conservation efforts, while convention organizers described him as 'an accomplished conservationist'. Brian Wilson helped found the Beach Boys in California in 1961 along with brothers Dennis and Carl, cousin Mike Love and friend Al Jardine. He was the band's linchpin and workhorse - their songwriter, joint lead vocalist, keyboardist and producer.  Between 1963 and 1965 he produced nine albums and 16 singles, but was also introduced to marijuana and, soon afterwards, LSD which exacerbated already-existing mental health issues.  Wilson claims the LSD left him suffering from auditory hallucinations in the form of voices telling him 'derogatory things'.   In 1964 he suffered a panic attack while on tour and refused to keep travelling with the band - instead concentrating on songwriting, with Bruce Johnston taking his place. In 1965, desperate to out-do The Beatles' Rubber Soul album, he began penning Pet Sounds - widely regarded as the group's best album which featured the songs God Only Knows and Wouldn't It Be Nice. The album was released the following year, the same year as single Good Vibrations, both of which were received with glowing acclaim. But the following year The Beatles released Sgt Pepper's Lonely Heart Club Band, a record so perfect that - as rock legend has it - it caused Wilson to have a breakdown. Over the course of the next two decades Wilson's life descended into substance abuse, self-harm, and institutionalization - and his involvement with the band was sporadic.  In 1983 brother Dennis, who had been struggling with his own mental health issues for years, drowned off the California coast.  Carl - who had been a heavy smoker all his life - died from cancer in 1998 while the band were still touring. Following his death, the remaining members split. Love and Johnston kept touring and were occasionally joined by guitarist David Marks, first as 'America's Band' but later as The Beach Boys after securing the licence from their record label. Separatelty, Brian's solo career took off and in recent years he has been touring with Jardine and Marks. Love and Johnston continue to tour under The Beach Boys name. Aside from occasional charity singles and one-off performances, they no longer work with Wilson.   
