{ By Adam Shergold for MailOnline    Published:  09:49, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7961389/Is-Chelseas-season-fall-apart-Frank-Lampard-expresses-transfer-frustration.html }
Frank Lampard likes to answer press conference questions in a thoughtful, intelligent and considered way, with a measured tone that doesn't excite too many unnecessary emotions and often a good sense of humour. But as the final hours of the January transfer window ebbed away last Friday, the Chelsea manager just couldn't disguise his frustration. Nor did he make any attempt to. By that eleventh-hour stage, it was painfully evident that Chelsea weren't going to sign the striker that Lampard wanted or, indeed, sign anyone and his pent-up annoyance spilled out in the microphones set up before him. Referencing Manchester United's signing of Bruno Fernandes, Sheffield United's club-record purchase of Sander Berge and others, and Tottenham bringing in Steven Bergwijn and Gedson Fernandes, Lampard opened fire. 'Look at Manchester United signing a big, big player, a world-class player in my opinion,' he said. 'And the teams around us, Sheffield United making fantastic signings. Tottenham have signed a few, and they're not behind us. 'This is not to talk ourselves down, because we're six points clear in fourth, [but] now we have probably become the underdogs... because the teams around us have strengthened.' That was before the weekend, and Lampard cannot have been thrilled to see that after Chelsea's 2-2 draw with Leicester City on Saturday, Spurs beat Manchester City 2-0 to move just four points behind them. Lampard's comments were clearly aimed at those upstairs who write the cheques, at owner Roman Abramovich and director Marina Granovskaia, and anyone else involved in the recruitment process. December 26 Southampton (H)  Lost 0-2 December 29 Arsenal (A) Won 2-1 January 1 Brighton (A) Drew 1-1 January 11 Burnley (H) Won 3-0 January 18 Newcastle (A) Lost 0-1 January 21 Arsenal (H) Drew 2-2 February 1 Leicester (A) Drew 2-2 Chelsea's two-window transfer ban was halved by the Court of Arbitration for Sport back on December 6, leaving them free to make signings during the window just closed. Nobody expected a mid-season splurge of £100million or more in a window notorious for being a seller's market and offering next to no value. But there was a reasonable expectation, from Lampard to the fans to pundits, that Chelsea would bring in someone, especially in the forward positions where the burden on Tammy Abraham is too heavy. Instead, Chelsea signed nobody. Their only January business was offloading nine from the wider squad, mostly deadwood or academy graduates in need of experience elsewhere. They did look at short-term options such as Paris Saint-Germain's Edinson Cavani, who looked likely to join Atletico Madrid but will now move for nothing in the summer, Napoli's Dries Mertens and Salomon Rondon of Dalian Yifang in China. To make matters worse for Lampard, one journalist asked him to play a deadline day game of 'Deal or No Deal' during the same press conference in which the names Mertens and Cavani were mentioned. It was less 'Deal or No Deal' and more Jim Bowen saying 'look at what you could have won' on Bullseye. The news that United, who sat fifth and were Chelsea's closest challengers at the time, brought in striker Odion Ighalo on loan just before the window shut wouldn't have improved Lampard's mood. So Chelsea push on without attacking reinforcement. Abraham, who has played 2,442 minutes of football for Chelsea alone this season, is struggling with an ankle knock but had to lead the line at Leicester on Saturday. It didn't say much for Lampard's faith in back-up striker Michy Batshuayi that he chose to bring on Ross Barkley for Abraham seven minutes from time. Mind you, the score was finely-balanced at 2-2 and Leicester were on top. In all competitions  Tammy Abraham Matches 32; Minutes 2,442; Goals 15; Assists 6 Michy Batshuayi Matches 22; Minutes 570; Goals 6; Assists 2 Olivier Giroud Matches 7; Minutes 282; Goals 1 While Abraham has played so regularly, Batshuayi has been on the field for just 570 minutes and has yet to start a Premier League or Champions League match. Lampard clearly has little trust in Olivier Giroud either, a lesser-seen beast who has played just 282 minutes so far this season as his Euro 2020 ambitions with France fade away. So the need for a new striker, even a stop-gap in the mould of Ighalo, was something Lampard recognised, had been talking up as his main transfer priority for weeks, and then didn't get. This setback comes at a time when Chelsea have run out of puff in the Premier League. Lampard enjoyed a lengthy honeymoon earlier in the season but has well and truly been confronted with the harsh realities of top-flight management. They have won just two of their last seven league matches, seeing that gap to fifth diminish, and going further back, have won a mere four of 13 games. Prior to that, they won six straight. And now comes a defining period in Chelsea's season that will test if they are now thew 'underdogs' to finish in the Champions League places as Lampard suggests. Premier League unless stated February 17 Manchester United (H) February 22 Tottenham Hotspur (H) February 25 Bayern Munich (H) Champions League last-16, first leg February 29 Bournemouth (A) March 5 Liverpool/Shrewsbury (H) FA Cup fifth round March 8 Everton (H) They face Manchester United and Tottenham in their two games straight after the Premier League's winter break before hosting Bayern Munich in the first leg of their Champions League last-16 tie. At the start of March, they could well face Liverpool in the fifth round of the FA Cup. The real examination of Chelsea's squad depth and firepower is just beginning. So Lampard has boldly made his point to the club's hierarchy. As a legend of the club, he should be afforded more time than many of his predecessors. And, after all, the exciting young team he has assembled, mostly out of necessity after being unable to sign anyone last summer, is in the Premier League top four and the knockout stages of the Champions League. But, as Antonio Conte and Maurizio Sarri found out, managers are expendable commodities at Chelsea and even Lampard must keep his irritation in check. And even if the tough weeks ahead prove his point about a lack of options up front, it'll be too late to do anything about it.   
