sport football
{ By Louise Ayling For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:17, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7963167/Veteran-NRL-referee-Gavin-Badger-drugs-escape-torment-sexually-abused-11-year-old-boy.html }
A rugby league referee has revealed he was threatened with a gun to stay silent after being sexually abused as an 11-year-old boy. Veteran NRL referee Gavin 'The Badge' Badger has opened up about his traumatic childhood and his spiral into drug abuse as a coping mechanism for the assault.  The 47-year-old told Daily Mail Australia he wasn't sure if he'd ever fully process the horrors of being molested as a child over three decades ago.  But it was 'a combination of becoming a dad and finding something he loved doing' which helped set him on a path to success. Badger has become of the NRL's most iconic match officials since kicking off his NRL debut in 2004, having controlled over 300 first grade matches over the period.  His tough but fair judgements have made him a fan favourite but it's the referee's traumatic childhood that's shaped the man he is today.   He laid it all bare this week in a tell-all interview with the NRL, exposing his childhood agony after 30 years of silence and fears people would think he was 'weak' for not speaking sooner. 'I'm Gavin Badger and I'm a survivor of child sexual abuse,' he said.   'As an 11-year-old kid, I was sexually abused by a family friend. It was frightening to even think about speaking up. 'After the abuse happened, I was directed to the cupboard door, and there was a gun in there,' he said. 'I didn't know if it was a real gun or what, but they said, "if you tell anyone, that's what I'll shoot you with."' Mr Badger told the Daily Mail Australia it was an event that caused him to spiral into a dark place.  'Within six months of me being abused I was starting to try smoking marijuana and stuff and it progressed to some other stuff....I needed something else to just numb the memories,' he said. It escalated to speed and cocaine but a morbid fear of needles meant there was never any risk of him injecting drugs.  By the age of 16 he had dropped out of high school and was doing an apprenticeship as a bookbinder. He said the drug-taking continued until he had his daughter Shante, which he described as a 'wake-up' call and catalyst to end the substance abuse.  'My daughter was born when I was 20. A lot of stuff that I looked at and read about was that cycle of people recreating things, and building a continuous cycle around what happened, and I didn't want that to happen with my kids,' he said. He said it was the combination of becoming a father and finding something he loved - and was good at - that turned his life around.  ‘Rugby league and particularly refereeing probably saved my life because it gave me some structure and that was people I looked up to that I didn’t want to let down, so from 18-20 was when I started to clean myself up a bit’.     Then, in about 2007 Badger found solace after meeting and settling down with his wife Kasey, who is also an NRL official.  'I knew that when I spoke to Kasey, and got that out if I wanted it to stay there it was going to stay there...  I didn't want anyone to feel that I was broken and stuff,' he said.  She was the first person he opened up to about the childhood abuse, and he's credited her for helping him to process the trauma. 'It was the best thing I could have ever done for myself or my mental health because it gave me someone to talk to about it and the nights when I didn't sleep well or the days when I didn't feel well or when I wasn't up to doing certain things she understood why now,' he said.         His wife Kasey Badger described the moment he revealed his childhood trauma as 'earth shattering.'  'You don’t know what to say. There's nothing you can possibly say to someone who has been through what he has been through. It was a pretty big moment,' she said.  Badger said while he's finally starting the grieving process it's not something he imagines will stop hurting any time soon. 'I don't know if I will ever fully process it because I suppose for me I suppressed it so long and tried to hide it it away and not think about it,' he said.  After telling his partner, Badger took it one step further - revealing his past in the most public way possible, through a post on Instagram. Badger shared his story with a post for child abuse awareness week, giving others a chance to open up and share their own stories. He said the next step will be going to the police so he can seek closure about what happened.  'It's not easy but the easiest part of the process is standing up and saying this is what happened to me. For me to do that I want to be able to stand there and be strong and not seem vulnerable in that moment,' he said. 
