sport football
{ By Rianne Addo and Ciara Farmer For Mailonline   Published:  01:23, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7963395/Rio-Ferdinand-feared-hed-never-happy-death-late-wife-Rebecca-Ellison.html }
Rio Ferdinand has admitted he 'never thought he'd be happy again' following the death of his wife Rebecca Ellison from breast cancer in 2015. In a teaser clip from his upcoming BBC documentary, Rio And Kate: Becoming A Stepfamily, the ex-footballer, 41, confessed he was content with 'just being with the kids' before now-wife Kate Ferdinand, neé Wright, changed his life for the better. Former TOWIE star Kate, 28, shared her thoughts on her role as a stepmother to his children Lorenz, 13, Tate, 11, and Tia, eight, as she admitted she's 'winging it' but hopes her 'caring personality' has won them over.  According to The Mirror, the BT Sport pundit reflected on becoming a widower following the tragic passing of his wife of six years at 34. The sportsman explained: 'I thought I’m never going to be happy again. I’ll never meet anyone, I was just really content with just being me and the kids and that’s all I thought it was going to be. And then something just happened.'  On finding love with Kate, he enthused: 'When you speak to the kids and the response is much more fun in the house, like – what dad couldn’t want that? She’s uplifting, she’s added value to this house given where it was. It was at a low ebb.' Doting step-mother Kate, who married her partner in September last year, detailed her experience as stepping in a parent to Rio's three grieving kids. She said: 'I do feel like I am winging it. I can’t ring my mate and say, 'what do I do?' No one’s with someone and their partner’s passed away and their kids haven’t got a mum. 'No one really knows what to say. I know I’m caring and I just go with that and hope it’s right.'   In another trailer from the show, the reality star is seen breaking down in tears as she voices concern for her stepchildren.  The Camberwell native, and the TV personality have been in a relationship since 2017 and tied the knot in a romantic ceremony in Turkey in September.  The documentary will follow the famous couple as Kate integrates into the family  In the teaser, Rio is seen saying: 'There ain't no manual on how to be a step-mum', before Kate said: 'Its hard for us so I cant imagine how hard it is for the kids.' The heartbreaking moment then appears as Kate looks devastated while sobbing and stating: 'I just want the children to be happy.'   On a more uplifting note, Rio mused over Kate changing their lives following his loss as he said: 'You feel like you've been dealt a terrible hand but your luck can change.'  The 'deeply personal' programme will show the months leading up to their wedding, while looking at the 'emotionally complicated dilemmas' that the family face together. The film, called Rio and Kate: Becoming A Step Family, follows the football star's previous Bafta-winning documentary in 2017, Rio Ferdinand: Being Mum And Dad, in which he came to terms with the effect of losing his wife while caring for his family. Rio and Kate said: 'The positive response to Being Mum And Dad in 2017 and the way it helped others going through a similar situation was overwhelming. For that reason we were both compelled to tell the next chapter in our lives together.  'We hope Becoming A Step Family will give a unique insight into step-families and the journey through grief, whilst also providing an intimate look at our lives together.' Rio then wrote: 'For the past year, myself & @xkateferdinand have been filming a new @bbcone documentary... it’s been a huge personal journey and by doing this, we hope the film will help other step families & those experiencing the journey of grief!' Alison Kirkham, BBC's controller of factual commissioning, said: 'I'd like to thank Rio and Kate for opening up their lives to us in such an intimate and personal way. 'The BBC has long been committed to tackling mental health issues and Rio Ferdinand's programme on bereavement in 2017 helped bring the conversation into the open. 'We hope this new film will offer meaningful insight into the reality and challenges of living in a step-family. It will also explore how grief affects us all differently.' The BBC said that step-families were now the fastest-growing family type in the UK, with an estimated one in three of all families being part of one. The couple meet with other families in similar circumstances to theirs in the programme, exploring the types of support on offer for those in need.   
