sport football
{ By Rianne Addo For Mailonline   Published:  09:01, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8034391/Inside-Beckhams-boozy-Canadian-break-David-swaps-pitch-slopes.html }
David Beckham treated fans to a peek at his half-term trip to Whistler, British Columbia, with his wife Victoria and their children, Brooklyn, 20, Romeo, 17, Cruz, 15, and Harper, eight, over the weekend. In a series of snaps posted to Instagram, the former footballer, 44, displayed his impressive skiing skills as he hit the slopes during a rare holiday alongside his whole brood, with even Romeo's girlfriend Mia Regen joining in on the festivities.  The Inter Miami CF president and Posh Spice, 45, appeared in great spirits as they showed their youngest child the ropes of the snowy sport, before treating themselves to alcoholic beverages in their resort's cabin-inspired restaurant. Father-of-four David was the picture of confidence as he glided down the trail, with an admiring Victoria gushing: 'The Dark Destroyer... is there anything you can't do?'. Following a lesson from her doting dad, young Harper - who last visited Whistler with her family in February 2018 - was ready to tackle the course as she sported a pair of mountain skis.  Cutting a typically fashion-forward appearance, singer Victoria nailed monochrome chic in a stylish ski suit, while her handsome husband threw his support behind his football team by wearing an Inter Miami CF hat.  Known for her steely persona, the Wannabe hitmaker put on an uncharacteristically enthusiast display, with the former Manchester United ace complimenting her 'great outfit'.  Amid their skiing fun, David treated himself to some waffles with Canadian maple syrup and a can of Stella Artois as he enjoyed lunch at the top of a mountain alongside his lookalike son Cruz. Cheery Romeo flashed a wide grin as he posed with his gear, while his younger brother Cruz – who recently celebrated his birthday – was every inch the skilled skiier as he followed in David's lead by jumping in the air with his feet positioned on a snowboard. Aspiring tennis player Romeo's girlfriend Mia also appeared in the family photos after the couple's romantic trips to Paris and Cornwall last year. The pair, who have been dating since last summer, were loved-up as they cosied up to each other for an adorable snap.  Following their excursion, celebrity offspring Brooklyn - who recently missed out on attending his mother's LFW presentation - showed his appreciation towards his parents as he posted a sweet snap from their dinner date, which featured a bottle of Sassicaia wine, a famous Italian wine from Tuscany.   CEO and co-founder of Cult Wines and The Apprentice star Tom Gearing, who previously spoke to MailOnline about the Beckhams’ ‘impeccable taste in wine’ describes the drink as: ‘A pioneering Italian wine which coined the term ‘Super Tuscan’, Sassicaia is one of Italy's most prestigious wines.’  David previously revealed Harper has taken after her big brothers with her sports skills, with the doting father admitting she came over to him and said: 'Daddy, I would like to maybe play football.'    Speaking in a Facebook live, David said: 'I was like, "Oh my goodness, that's amazing!" Having children is the most special thing in the world,' he insisted. 'You don't love any of them more than any of the others. It's just different, you know. The boys are very protective over [Harper] and, obviously, so am I.'  Victoria has also confessed Harper is into games in past, branding her little girl a 'tomboy'. Speaking on The Ellen DeGeneres Show in 2015, she explained: 'She loves to put her football boots on and get in the garden with her brothers and have a bit of rough and tumble.'  The Beckham's holiday comes amid claims David has reportedly signed a £180 million sponsorship deal with Qatar for his new football club Inter Miami.  The deal has been on the cards for weeks after 'secret talks' were reportedly held between the football star and his agent David Gardner.  A source told The Sun: 'This deal wipes the floor with previous sponsorship deals. Becks and his agent David Gardner have been incredibly hands-on, determined to get the best terms possible. 'Qatar is keen to drive investments overseas to improve and soften its image. Miami and the Beckham brand fits perfectly with this.'  In return for the lump sum Qatar will see their logo brandished on all of the football club's kit and merchandise as well as taking centre stage at their Miami, Florida, stadium. The club will play its inaugural game against FC Dallas on March 22. MailOnline contacted David's representative for comment at the time of publication. 
