sport football
{ By Ralph R. Ortega For Dailymail.com and Associated Press   Published:  16:58, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7961533/San-Francisco-49ers-assistant-coach-female-openly-gay-coach-Super-Bowl-history.html }
The San Franciso 49ers sent the first woman to coach in the Super Bowl's history on Sunday.  Katie Sowers also was the championship's first ever openly LGBT coach.  It was an almost surreal moment for Sowers, 33, who might've become a basketball coach after wrapping up her college basketball career at Goshen College in Indiana.  But being gay kept her from becoming a volunteer assistant there in 2009, because of the school's school's sexual orientation policies of the time.  In the days leading up to the Super Bowl, current Goshen President Rebecca Stoltzfus apologized to Sowers, and noted the orientation policies have since changed. Sowers admitted at the game on Sunday, which saw her team lose to the Kansas City Chiefs 31 to 20, that she still had a hard time believing she had been fortunate enough to have made it there. 'I'm waiting for someone to tell me that this is all a joke, and they're going to be like 'Psych! You're not really there. You're not really a football coach,'' Sowers said.  'It's one of those things that you really start to look around you and take advantage of every single day, especially with things happening in the news. You really appreciate the moment.'  Sowers took to social media to celebrate her moment in history, encouraging parents to support their daughters in whatever they set out to do in life. 'If your daughter has a dream of being a football coach in the NFL... or a ballerina... or a professional soccer player.. or a teacher.. or a nurse.. or a doctor.. or an astronaut.. or even PRESIDENT.. just let her know this... She. Can. Do. It. And she will change the world,' she tweeted. Journalists also joined in celebrating her historic moment.  ESPN2 Host Katine Nolan tweeted she was tearing up seeing Sowers on the jumbotron, a giant screen at the Super Bowl.  Instead of coaching basketball, Sowers went on to play in the Women's Football Alliance and for USA Football's national team, including her best game ever where she intercepted five passes at safety against Germany.  Injuries such as a separated shoulder and a torn labrum ended her playing career, leading her to Kansas City, where she earned a master's degree at Central Missouri. As she pursued her studies, she never lost sight of her dreams of coaching in the NFL. But, Sowers says she knew it would still be an up-hill battle. 'I knew that I had a long road ahead of me if I wanted to be an NFL coach because I didn't have the opportunity to play on a college team,' Sowers said.  'I didn't have the opportunity to break down film like a lot of these (coaches). ... I didn't have the opportunity to network like a lot of people did. But I was up for the challenge, so I bought every book I could and started doing it myself.' She began her career in the NFL in 2016, as a coach for the Atlanta Falcons training camp.  In Kansas City, meanwhile, Sowers also had a part-time job coaching a youth basketball team with then-Chiefs general manager Scott Pioli being one of the parents.  It was Pioli who now-former Patriots offensive lineman Ryan O'Callaghan came out to in 2011 when the two were in New England – six years before publicly acknowledging he was gay. Pioli learned about Sowers' involvement with football and admired her ability to coach, and to her surprise, he had no problem with the fact that she was openly gay.  In 2016, Pioli convinced the coaching staff to offer Sowers a fellowship for minority candidates, by which point Jen Welter was working with the Arizona Cardinals linebackers as the NFL's first female coach. Being the first woman to coach in the Super Bowl may be surreal. Sowers makes very clear she hopes she's blazing a path for many more to follow. 'I feel like a broken record, but what I want to continue to say is that even though I'm the first, the most important thing is I'm not the last and we continue to grow it,' Sowers said.   
