sport football
{ By Alex Raskin Sports News Editor For Dailymail.com and Reuters   Published:  16:42, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7961917/Chiefs-QB-Mahomes-far-complacent-Super-Bowl-triumph.html }
Not only did Kansas City's Patrick Mahomes win Super Bowl LIV's MVP for engineering an improbable comeback against San Francisco on Sunday, but in doing so, the Chiefs quarterback sensation also realized his seven-year-old dream of giving Disney a plug on the biggest stage in sports. As a high school senior in eastern Texas in 2013, Mahomes openly wondered on Twitter about the customary moment when a Super Bowl MVP says 'I'm going to Disney World' towards a waiting camera in the game's final moments. 'I bet it feels amazing to be the quarterback who says "I'm going to Disney World" after winning the Super Bowl,' Mahomes wrote on February 6, 2013 – three days after then-Baltimore Ravens quarterback Joe Flacco said those same words following his Super Bowl XLVII win over San Francisco. Like Flacco, Mahomes now knows that exact feeling after beating the 49ers in the NFL finale. According to Disney CEO Michael Eisner's 1998 memoir, Work in Progress, it was his wife Jane who originally came up with the tag line in 1987.  That January, following Super Bowl XXI, New York Giants quarterback Phil Simms became the first athlete to say the line, reportedly earning $75,000 for the spot. Traditionally it is the Super Bowl MVP who delivers the line, but Ravens linebacker Ray Lewis did not get the opportunity at Super Bowl XXXV after he had been accused - and acquitted - of murder. Instead, then-Ravens quarterback Trent Dilfer delivered the line on camera even though he completed only 12 of 25 passes for just 153 yards in the game. Mahomes, at 24, became the youngest quarterback to be named the Most Valuable Player of a Super Bowl after he led the Chiefs on three touchdown drives in the final six minutes of a 31-20 victory over the San Francisco 49ers. (Los Angeles Raiders running back Marcus Allen and Pittsburgh Steelers wide receiver Lynn Swann were both 23 when they were named MVP at Super Bowls XVIII and X, respectively) Despite achieving the pinnacle of success in his sport just three seasons into his NFL career, Mahomes is anything but complacent and intends to be back at work very soon. 'I am going to enjoy it for a couple weeks but knowing that the mindset of we're going to get back grinding this offseason, go back in and try to do more stuff,' Mahomes, in a red shirt with 'Showtime' emblazoned across the chest above his number 15, said on Monday during the Super Bowl MVP news conference. 'We know that everybody is going to be gunning for us and we are going to have to go out there and try to win games next year and be back here and hopefully back on this stage.' Mahomes, making his debut on the NFL's biggest stage, was statistically having the worst games of his young career as his team was bottled up by the stingy San Francisco defense through three quarters until coming alive when it mattered most. The 49ers, who came into the game looking to snap a 25-year championship drought, began the fourth quarter with a 20-10 lead. But their vaunted defense simply had no answer as the Chiefs' high-octane offense finally found its gear en route to ending a 50-year title drought of their own. Mahomes, who the Chiefs selected 10th overall in the 2017 NFL Draft, finished the game having completed 26 of 42 passes for 286 yards with two touchdowns and two interceptions. He also ran for a touchdown. Mahomes, the new face of the NFL, is due for a contract extension this offseason and is undoubtedly in line for a major payday. But Mahomes said he will not let the negotiations get in the way of his preparations for the 2020 season 'That's stuff that's handled with other people,' said Mahomes. 'Obviously I want to be in Kansas City for a long time, I understand that. Also I want to win a lot of football games here.' Mahomes was named the MVP of the 2018 regular season and overcame a knee injury earlier this season to top that with a Super Bowl triumph. Asked what he could do to top his latest achievements, Mahomes was quick to offer an answer. 'Win another one. That's it.' 
