{ By Reuters and Emily Crane For Dailymail.com   Published:  00:12, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7959361/Super-Bowl-feature-female-owners-time.html }
The female owners of the Kansas City Chiefs and San Francisco 49ers will go head to head against each other for the first match-up of its kind in Super Bowl history.  With Denise York helping lead the Niners as co-owner and co-chair and Norma Hunt the matriarch of the Chiefs, Super Bowl LIV will represent a small crack in the glass ceiling of the overwhelmingly male-dominated world of pro football.  It is the first time two teams with women owners have faced off against each other in the Super Bowl.  Chiefs' co-owner Hunt, the so-called First Lady of Football, is the only woman to have attended every one of the 53 Super Bowls and hopes to see her team lift the Lombardi Trophy for the first time in half a century.   The widow of the late Lamar Hunt, the man who founded the team and coined the term Super Bowl, Norma told the Kansas City Star in a rare interview that the long wait since the Chiefs' Super Bowl IV triumph in 1970 was testament to the league's competitiveness. 'It just shows how hard it is to get there (to the Super Bowl) and how important it is to take advantage of the opportunities when they come along,' said Hunt, whose son Clark co-owns the team and acts as its CEO. York, a billionaire businesswoman who oversees the Niners alongside husband John and son Jed, had previously served as the president of the NHL's Pittsburgh Penguins. 'We say football is about family, and we have two of the best in sports in this Super Bowl,' NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said earlier this week.  'They happen to be led by women - the first match-up of its kind.'  Another female trailblazer in Sunday's match is San Francisco's offensive assistant Katie Sowers, who will be the first woman to coach in a Super Bowl.  The 33-year-old just happens also to be the NFL's first openly gay coach.   'It is literally a dream come true,' said Sowers, soaking in the buzz around Super Bowl Opening Night.  'Growing up I knew I either wanted to be a coach, a teacher or a counselor and I kind of got all three. 'This is just what comes with it and I am willing and happy to be a trailblazer because I know that other women, other young girls are watching this and maybe their path is a little clearer now.' The halftime show will also feature two Latina pop giants with Jennifer Lopez and Shakira performing together for the first time, saying they too have a message for young women.   'The 49ers and Chiefs are run by women and you've got two women heading the halftime show. That statement alone for me is empowering,' Lopez said.  While Sowers' part in the Super Bowl panorama may be small, her impact on the sport and U.S. culture is likely to be much deeper than the fleeting social media buzz generated by Lopez and Shakira or billionaire owners. Sowers is not the first woman to work in the NFL.  Jen Welter broke that glass ceiling in 2015 when she joined the Arizona Cardinals staff. This year there were four women, including Sower, with full-time coaching jobs.  But coaching on Sunday in America's biggest sporting event has put a spotlight on Sowers and diversity in a way that only the Super Bowl could. 'I want the narrative to be that I'm a coach,' said Sowers. 'It is not just men who can lead men, it's not that women can lead men, it's that people can lead if they are true leaders. 'I don't have to be anyone but myself, continue to be yourself, be authentic and you will find your path.'   
