sport football
{ By Mike Keegan At The Hard Rock Stadium, Miami   Published:  06:52, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/nfl/article-7959913/Step-forward-Patrick-Mahomes-comeback-kid-Americas-new-hero.html }
America wakes up on Monday morning with a new hero. Step forward Patrick Lavon Mahomes II.  On a cool night in Miami, the 24–year-old displayed ice in his veins. His comeback – rallying his side from 20-10 down with an explosive 21 points in seven incredible fourth quarter minutes will become the stuff of legend.  Not that everyone will have been surprised. Why? Because with Mahomes, you always have a chance. Always. Even when you are 10 down to the meanest offense in the NFL. Even when you have spent three quarters effectively on the run. Even when those marauding, vicious 49ers are coming in for the kill. Always.  Deep in his own half, with just seven minutes and 13 seconds remaining, he faced a 3rd and 15. This was the game. The pressure, as it had all night, came again in another white-shirted Northern California wave.  Mahomes bravely stood his ground before, at the last possible millisecond, launching a bomb down the field. It dropped out of the south Florida night and into the arms of his partner in crime, Tyreek Hill, for 43 precious yards. It was a pass that changed the course of history.  Two plays later they were in, the gap was down to three and the Missouri hordes were sparked into life. An almost inevitable three and out from the 49ers followed and the Tomahawk Chop was ramped up to 11. This time a 38-yarder to Sammy Watkins – who beat the unbeatable Richard Sherman – did the damage. Another pass to a tiptoeing Damien Williams who crept in at the far corner and as quickly as that the job was done.  Williams would stroll in again on a 38-yard victory procession but it was the Most Valuable Player Mahomes who will be talk of the nation’s breakfast table. Another turnaround. This was his third in these play-offs. He brought his team back from 24 points down against Houston and 10 against Tennessee. With number 15 behind the center, anything is possible.  Earlier last week, two lines of police officers had stopped traffic to allow the 49ers to cross a road from their downtown hotel to a meeting. They could have done with those cops here. Mahomes should now become the face of the 20s. The son of a white mum and black father, he becomes just the third African American QB to win the big prize. He is as humble as he is talented.  He can be a force for good in these divisive times. In a tweet from 2013 that quickly circulated following the falling of the confetti, he stated: ‘I bet it feels amazing to be the quarterback who says "I'm going to Disney World" after winning the Super Bowl.’  He got to repeat those words on the Super Bowl 54 stage. He will not have far to travel. On the subject of geographical tweets, the Chiefs’ victory prompted President Donald Trump to congratulate the victors on their win for ‘the great state of Kansas’.  The tweet was later deleted - presumably when someone informed him that Kansas City is in Missouri, not Kansas.  ‘I’m glad we kept fighting,’ Mahomes added. But it was he who epitomized that fight. Hit time and time again he was the man who kept on swinging but he was far from punch drunk.  For Chiefs’ coach Andy Reid, the victory will be sweeter than the giant bucket of orange Gatorade dumped over his head. This was the much-loved veteran’s first Super Bowl win. It was Kansas City’s first since 1970 and their second in total. The party will go on for some time. The barbecue will last for days.  The question the San Francisco defensive backs will spend the offseason asking themselves was probably the same one going through the mind of Patrick Mahomes in the split second that changed the Super Bowl on Sunday.  How did Tyreek Hill get that open? Clogged up for more than three quarters by Richard Sherman and a Niners defense that didn't give up big plays this season, Mahomes and the Chiefs finally found their opening. It was a 44-yard pass to Hill, the small-and-speedy wide receiver who got behind not one, not two, but three defenders on third-and-15 and with KC's hopes looking bleak in the fourth quarter. That was the turning point in Kansas City's 31-20 victory, the key to its 21-point fourth quarter and the trigger point in the Chiefs' third straight comeback from a double-digit deficit in this year's postseason. This final one, on a cool crisp night in South Florida, earned them the Lombardi Trophy. 'Coach Reid told me ... to keep firing, keep believing in your eyes and go for it,' Mahomes said. Hard to imagine he could believe his eyes when he saw Hill so wide-open. The 49ers came in having allowed only eight completions this season on passes thrown more than 20 yards downfield - the fewest of any team in the NFL in 14 seasons. For nearly 53 minutes in this one, they were living up to the resume. Harassing Mahomes in the backfield, never letting him get free on the edges, let alone wind up for a big throw, the Niners were in total control. They forced two Mahomes picks - the first two of his young postseason career - and celebrated each time by posing for fake photos in the end zone. They took a 20-10 lead that felt even bigger. 'I knew we weren't in the ideal situation,' Mahomes said. Trailing by 10 and with desperation time nearing, Mahomes threw a pair of incompletions, including one that was initially ruled a catch by Hill but was overturned on review. That made it third-and-15 at the 35; one more stop by the Niners would've pretty much brought an end to the game. Mahomes took the snap and backpedaled 13 yards. He looked downfield, then to his left, and heaved his longest throw of the evening. 'I think the offensive line gave me enough time to throw a really deep route, and I just put it out there and Tyreek made a really great play,' Mahomes said. Hill stopped in his tracks and cradled it in. Only then did three Niners - Emmanuel Moseley, K'Waun Williams and Fred Warner - swarm back to tackle him at the 21. Given Hill's nearly track-star speed, most of the focus this season has been on containing him on the edges and not letting him catch the ball and take off. But this was a different sort of long gain. 'No, no, no, no, no,' Hill said, when asked if he was surprised to be that open. 'You're never surprised if you're speedy. I was just able to use my speed, get up on the d-backs, get him to roll over and get open.' Four plays later, the Chiefs had cut the deficit to three. The San Francisco defense was stunned and never overcame it. There wasn't much in the way of explanation in the Niners' still-stunned postgame interview area. 'I'm not sure exactly what happened,' coach Kyle Shanahan said. 'It looked like we were playing zone defense. It looked like he was allowed to hold the ball a pretty long while. And Tyreek got behind us on a corner route.' Warner called it simply a matter of Mahomes having 'time to air it out and we didn't have the guys back there to make the play.' And DeForest Buckner, part of a line that kept Mahomes off-balance all night (he was sacked four times), said, 'We knew we needed to make one more play, and we didn't.' 'We didn't get any pressure and we left them hanging out to dry back there. It's the worst feeling in the world,' Buckner said. After cutting the deficit to 20-17, Kansas City forced a three-and-out. Four plays into its next drive, Sammy Watkins juked Sherman at the line of scrimmage and got behind him to set up an easy 38-yard reception that led to the go-ahead score. Kansas City got the ball back again once more, and Damien Williams broke a 38-yard run for the last touchdown. That made it 21 points in the fourth quarter - over the last 6:13 to be exact. That made a 10-point deficit an 11-point win. That brought the Super Bowl trophy back to Kansas City for the first time in 50 years. 'I wasn't feeling good about it at all. I told Pat, `It´s 20-10 with seven minutes left - c'mon bro,'' Hill said. 'And all Pat did, he just told me to believe.' (Associated Press)  Vegas had struggled to split these two and at half-time they were tied at 10-10, with a touchdown and field goal apiece. Then came the show within the show and the usual rent-a-crowd of giddy youngsters, presumably trained in the art of looking like you are having a good time, prancing at the side of a giant stage in the middle of the pitch. It was entertaining. Out came Shakira, aided with some Led Zeppelin, to gyrate for a bit, followed by pole dancing Jenny from the block. Those running the concession stands could have taken a fag break.  Craftily armed with watches that provided a stunning light backdrop, virtually no fans left their seats as Lopez stole the show before Shakira emerged for an expected duet which featured an unexpected Irish jig. The watches even turned green.  The third quarter belonged to 49ers quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo, who led his side to 10 answered points and answered some critics in the process. Victory was within reach, but it was not close enough.  ‘Whatever your dreams are, put the work ethic in and you can be there at the end of the day,’ Mahomes had said in the build-up to the game. Last night those dreams came true for the Comeback Kid and most of America outside the Bay Area celebrated.  Reflecting on the victory afterwards, Mahomes added: 'We have heart. That's just from Day 1. Coach pushes us to be the best people that we can be, and we never give up.'  Chiefs coach Andy Reid earned his 222nd career victory, and his first in a Super Bowl.     'This is what it's all about,' said Reid, who previously lost Super Bowl XXXIX to New England as head coach of the Philadelphia Eagles. 'What a great team, great coaches. Appreciate every bit of it.'  Trump forgets Kansas City is in Missouri, tributes paid to Kobe, and Beyonce and Jay-Z sit out the national anthem: All the Super Bowl action that had nothing to do with the game Donald Trump was widely mocked on Twitter after praising the Kansas City Chiefs for 'representing Great State of Kansas' following their Super Bowl win - forgetting that the city is actually located in Missouri. In a now-amended tweet, the President wrote: 'Congratulations to the Kansas City Chiefs on a great game, and a fantastic comeback, under immense pressure. You represented the Great State of Kansas and, in fact, the entire USA, so very well. Out Country is PROUD OF YOU!' 'Trumpo, I have a feeling we're not in Kansas anymore,' Twitter user Scott Brockman wrote, alongside a photo of Trump as the Wizard in Wizard of Oz.   Claire McCaskill, a former Missouri senator, cut straight to the chase in her rebuttal.  'It's Missouri you stone cold idiot,' she wrote.   Former Lt. Governor of Maryland, Michael Steele, called Trump's remark 'simply stupid.'  'I got nothing for this one. #SimplyStupid,' Steele wrote.   Inside the Hard Rock Stadium, two other figures causing controversy were Beyonce and Jay-Z who were seen sitting during the national anthem. The superstars and their daughter Blue Ivy were filmed remaining in their seats as Demi Lovato took to the field to sing the national anthem ahead of kick-off. Jay-Z was criticized last year after entering into partnership with the NFL for events and social activism, despite being a vocal supporter of ousted quarterback Colin Kaepernick who began kneeling during the anthem to protest what he sees as social injustice in America. His Roc Nation deal, which was signed in August, allows Jay-Z to help select artists for major NFL performances such as at the Super Bowl and play a role in the NFL's Inspire Change initiative. At the time, he said that he still supports protesting, kneeling and Kaepernick, but he's also interested in working with the league to make substantial changes.  Representatives for Jay-Z and Beyoncé didn't immediately reply to emails seeking comment. Ahead of kickoff, players and fans took a moment to honor sport legend Kobe Bryant after the former Lakers player was killed a week ago in a helicopter crash.    Players from the Kansas City Chiefs and San Francisco 49ers lined up for a moment of silence to commemorate all nine victims of last weekend´s helicopter crash, including Bryant and his 13-year-old daughter Gianna. The teams stood on their respective 24-yard lines - in tribute to Bryant's No. 24 jersey. Some fans at the game wore Lakers jerseys, and a few even had Bryant´s Lower Merion High School jersey. 'Ladies and gentlemen, please join in a moment of silence as the 49ers, Chiefs, and National Football League extend our deepest condolences to the friends and families of those lost this past week. ... They will never be forgotten,' was the message that blared through Hard Rock Stadium. As that announcement was being made, two of the stadium´s four video screens showed an image of Bryant and the names of the other eight victims of the crash. The other two video screens showed an image of longtime Minnesota Vikings star and Pro Football Hall of Famer Chris Doleman, who also died last week. Sherman also appeared on Fox's pregame show to read a poem called 'Dear Football' - adapting most of what he said from Bryant´s 'Dear Basketball' poem that he penned as a way of announcing that the 2015-16 season would be his last with the Lakers and in the NBA. 'I played through the sweat and hurt. Not because challenge called me. But because YOU called me,' Sherman read, copying Bryant´s words exactly in that particular passage. 'I did everything for YOU. Because that´s what you do when someone makes you feel as alive as you´ve made me feel.' During warmups at the Super Bowl, plenty of players wore cleats designed with various tributes to Bryant. San Francisco´s Dante Pettis had purple-and-gold ones with the words 'Mamba Out' - the final two words of Bryant´s retirement speech following his 60-point farewell game in 2016 - emblazoned on the sides. The 49ers´ Emmanuel Sanders wore a pair with the words 'Rest In Peace' and Kansas City´s Demarcus Robinson had images of Bryant and his number 24 on his cleats. Jennifer Lopez delivered an electric performance packed with pole dancing and raunchy outfits during the Super Bowl LIV half-time show.  The 50-year-old hit the stage immediately after Shakira, wowing audiences with a medley of her biggest hits including Jenny From The Block, Love Don't Cost A Thing, and Waiting For Tonight.  Jennifer dazzled audiences with the pole dancing skills she had acquired from her Hustlers training, and even performed a mini duet with her 11-year-old daughter, Emme.     Emme, whom J-Lo shares with her ex-husband and fellow singer Marc Anthony, gave her famous mother a run for her money as she belted out Let's Get Loud. Emme was part of a choir of identically dressed children but got to break away from them to get a big solo.   As J-Lo continued performing Let's Get Loud, Emme switched into a rendition of the 1984 Bruce Springsteen song Born In The U.S.A. 'Latinos!' Jennifer shouted, spreading her Stars And Stripes cape to reveal that the inside was the Puerto Rican flag. Both J-Lo and Marc were born in New York to Puerto Rican parents.  Shakira was celebrating her 43rd birthday at the Super Bowl and brought back her iconic belly dancing moves during her epic performance. The Colombian hitmaker - real name Shakira Isabel Mebarak Ripoll - kicked off the 12-minute show with She Wolf before grabbing a guitar and rocking out.  Things ramped up a notch as she performed Whenever, Wherever before being joined by Bad Bunny for Cardi B track I Like It. Shakira looked ravishing in a red sequined mini dress featuring matching wristbands while she commanded the stage with the support of dozens of background dancers.  She then showed off her salsa moves before ending her segment by doing Hips Don't Lie and later joined J-Lo on stage again.   President Trump's election advert featuring freed prisoner Alice Johnson becomes one of the most talked-about of the Super Bowl alongside Google after firms spent $400million securing game-time slots President Trump's $5.6 million Super Bowl ad is sparking outrage, with football fans taking to Twitter to blast the 2020 re-election campaign commercial.  The 30-second advertisement - which aired during the first-quarter - depicted Trump as an advocate for criminal justice reform by relaying the experience of Alice Marie Johnson, a black prisoner whom he pardoned back in 2018.  The ad was blasted by former South Carolina Rep. Bakari Sellers, who called it an offensive 'I freed a Negro' ad'. Meanwhile, another viewer took to Twitter to accuse the President of making 'a tacky play for the black vote'.  The controversial commercial was one of 77 which aired during the Super Bowl, with billion dollar brands including Amazon, Hyundai and Google also forking out seven figures for coveted ad space. Advertisements were bolstered by big names including Chrissy Teigen, John Kransinski and Ellen DeGeneres - which helped to generate buzz on social media.  Fox raked in an estimated $400 million in ad sales for the Super Bowl LIV, which had an estimated audience of 100 million.  Below is a look at the most talked-about commercials that aired during the broadcast.  President Trump's  2020 Re-election Campaign The ad stated the 'Thanks to President Trump, people like Alice are getting a second chance. Politicians talk about criminal justice reform, President Trump gets it done'.  The ad showed Johnson being reunited with her family as she was released from prison.  Some viewers took issue with the optics - as the President has previously been condemned for separating immigrant families at the border.  'Trumps trash advert talking about how he's been reuniting families. That tw*t has been tearing them apart the minute he got into office,' one wrote.  Others appeared less than impressed by having politics intrude on Super Bowl Sunday.  Former Democratic speechwriter Jake Maccoby posted a Tweet calling out what he perceived to be the President's hypocrisy, writing: ''Don't bring your politics into sports!' Trump screamed at black athletes while purchasing a million-dollar super bowl ad'.  But it wasn't all negative buzz on Twitter.  Thousands of other Super Bowl viewers relished the ad, with one posting: 'Powerful! Well done sir!'. A second user remarked that it was 'simply brilliant'.  Meanwhile, Alice Marie Johnson herself took to Twitter to share the commercial.   'Two Super Bowls ago I was sitting in a prison cell. Today I am a free woman and my story was featured in a Super Bowl ad,' she wrote.  'I will spend the rest of my life fighting for the wrongly and unjustly convicted! God bless America she wrote.  Kim Kardashian - who lobbied President Trump for Johnson's release -  also tweeted about the ad.  'So proud of you!!!! @AliveMarieFree,' she cooed.   Google Assistant  Elsewhere, there was another non-celebrity ad that managed to gain a considerable amount of traction online.   Google aired a tear-jerking commercial featuring an elderly man reflecting on happier times before his wife passed away.  The man is heard asking his Google Assistant device to show him photos of the pair together and to record sweet memories from when his wife was alive.  At the end, Google Assistant pulls up a record of all the man's notes. The oldest one, from May 2017, reads: 'Loretta always said, don't miss me too much, and get out of the dang house.'    News reporter Vic Vela was left in tears by the commercial, writing on Twitter: 'Google demonstrated that ads can be about more than just overpaid celebs and cheese-stained fingers. This was absolutely moving and beautiful, and for anyone who has experienced love and loss.'  Courtney Effinger, watching the game with her family outside of Detroit, Michigan, liked the ad. 'It struck the heart chords,' she told Associated Press.  The ad worked because not many ads took the 'quiet' approach this year, said Paul Argenti, a Dartmouth College professor of corporate communication. 'That´s why it stands out, it´s a little bit slower and focused on a social theme,' he said. Mike Bloomberg's 2020 Election Campaign President Trump wasn't the only politician to fork over millions of dollars for a Super Bowl spot.  Democratic hopeful Mike Bloomberg outdid Trump by doubling the President's 30 second of airtime and splashing out $11 million to secure a 60-second commercial during the broadcast.   Like Trump's commercial, Bloomberg's election campaign advertisement - which honed in on gun violence -  garnered mixed reviews.  'I am not a Bloomberg fan, but I can acknowledge a really good ad when I see one, even if it is not for whomever I am supporting,' costume designer Terry Dresbach wrote.  However, Fox News reported that the advertisement featured misleading statistics.     '2,900 CHILDREN DIE FROM GUN VIOLENCE EVERY YEAR' Bloomberg's ad stated, however the number was not attributed to any source.  However, Fox claims 'a recent report from the Bloomberg-founded group Everytown for Gun Safety came up with that same number -- but only when it included teenagers ages 18 and 19 in the calculation. They are technically not children.   Genesis Super star couple Chrissy Teigen and John Legend lent their star power to a commercial for Hyundai's luxury vehicle brand Genesis.  In the 30-second ad, the couple appear at a glamorous party where Teigen pokes fun at herself for having plastic surgery as she addresses a crowd of attendees to tell them about a new car.  'To the woman who hasn't had any plastic surgery, I saw you in the waiting room,' Teigen states, trying to get the lady's attention.  The model's self-deprecating sense of humor went over well with viewers, with one Twitter user describing it as 'f**king hilarious'. Hyundai    Actors Chris Evans and John Krasinski also lit up the small screen in a commercial for Hyundai.  The stars, who were both born in Massachusetts, adopted thick New England accents in the ad, which the Sonata's new Smart Parking feature.  The commercial shows Evans and comedian Rachel Dratch watching as Krasinski steps out of his shiny new sedan and watches it park itself in a tight spot.  A postman standing nearby raises alarm that no one is at the wheel to which Evans responds: 'That's all right, he's got Smaht Pahk!'  Boston Red Sox star David Ortiz, AKA Big Papi, then appears nearby and calls the feature 'wicked smaht'.     Amazon Alexa  Ellen DeGeneres and wife Portia de Rossi welcomed viewers into their home in a Super Bowl commercial for Amazon Alexa.  The power couple were seen using Alexa as they get ready to leave their house before DeGeneres asks de Rossi: 'What do you think people did before Alexa?'   The ad then launches into a fake history lesson featuring old-timey maids, court jesters, newsboys, friends, secretaries and people with names similar to Alexa who are asked to do everything the device does.  The long-winded lesson cuts off as DeGeneres and de Rossi get in their car and the latter comments: 'Yeah, I don't know what people did before Alexa.'    Hulu Tom Brady's cryptic tweet that sparked speculation the NFL superstar was about to make an announcement about his future was actually just a Super Bowl commercial for online streaming service Hulu. The New England Patriots quarterback tweeted a single black and white image last week that showed him walking onto an empty field at his home stadium in Massachusetts. It immediately caused fans to speculate on whether Brady was about to announce his retirement or if he had signed with a new team for next season.  But it turns out the frenzy was just a way to drum up buzz for Hulu.  'They say all good things must come to an end... That the best just know when to walk away,' Brady said in the somber commercial.  'So to my teammates, my family and most of all my fans, you deserve to hear this from me.'  The 42-year-old six-time Super Bowl-winning quarterback then suddenly changed course and started giving details about Hulu's services.  'Hulu doesn't just have live sports. According to the script they just gave me, Hulu also has your favorite cable channels, plus the greatest shows, movies and originals of all time.  'So it's time to say goodbye to TV as you know it.  'But me? I'm not going anywhere.'   Doritos Doritos made an unexpected remix of rapper Lil Nas X's record-breaking 2019 hit Old Town Road for one of its ads on Sunday - bringing in Sam Elliott to perform a cover.   The 75-year-old actor is seen entering an old saloon and reciting the song's opening lyrics in his trademark drawl as fellow patrons scowl.   The base line of the original version of Old Town Road begins to play, shaking the bar as Elliott stands up and exits the saloon without a word.  Planters    Planters shocked customers last week when it killed off its 104-year-old mascot Mr Peanut in a teaser for a Super Bowl commercial.   The ad shows Mr Peanut and actors Wesley Snipes and Matt Walsh getting into a scary car accident in the NUTmobile that leaves them hanging over the side of a cliff. Mr Peanut, who was introduced as the brand's mascot in 1916, saves his road trip companions by letting go and plummeting to his death.  On Monday Planters announced that it is putting the campaign on hold in light of the deaths of Kobe Bryant, his 13-year-old daughter, and seven others in a helicopter crash on Sunday.  Jeep Super Bowl Sunday was held on February 2 - officially Groundhog Day -  and Jeep paid tribute to the special date. The company painstakingly recreated the 1993 movie 'Groundhog Day,' including the town square and other locales, with original actors Bill Murray, Brian Doyle Murray and Stephen Tobolowsky.  The twist: instead of a Chevrolet truck, Murray uses a Jeep Gladiator truck. FCA Group marketing chief Olivier Francois said the ad worked to demonstrate the versatility of the Jeep truck since Murray does something different every day.  Michelob ULTRA WWE superstar John Cena inspires late night host Jimmy Fallon to get in shape in Michelob's new Super Bowl commercial.   The 60-second ad begins with 45-year-old Fallon trying to work out with 42-year-old Cena - though it's not going so well. Fallon gives up and the pair retreat to a nearby bar, where Cena convinces Fallon to get back in the gym as the pair sip on Michelob Ultra beers.  Mountain Dew Bryan Cranston and Tracee Ellis Ross recreated the iconic 'Here's Johnny' scene from the 1980 film The Shining in an ad for Mountain Dew.  Cranston channels Shining star Jack Nicholson's demented hotel caretaker Jack Torrance as he carries an axe around a hotel and ominously calls 'Come out, come out, wherever you are....' He then taps on the door as Ross hides behind with a bottle of Mountain Dew, saying 'I've got new Mountain Dew Zero Sugar.' Cranston then proceeds to attack the locked door with an axe, before poking his face through the hole in the door and putting his own spin on the movie's iconic line: 'Here's Mountain Dew Zero!' A terrified Tracee stops screaming and takes the drink while casually saying: 'I am thirsty'The ad's final shots show Mountain Dew pouring out of the doors of an elevator, in a twist on the original film's waves of blood.  Rocket Mortgage  Jason Momoa poked fun at his image of a tall, sculpted film star in this Super Bowl ad which shows him heading back to his luxurious mansion and decompressing after a long day, as he explains the virtues of home. 'What does home mean to me?' the Honolulu, Hawaii native, 40, said in the clip. 'It's my sanctuary. It's the one place I can let my guard down. 'It's where I can just kick back and be totally comfortable in my own skin.' At that point, the 6ft4 screen star removed a pair of shoes that were adding to his height. Momoa removed a dark T-shirt to reveal a slim frame - and not the chiseled look fans of the Aquaman actor have been accustomed to seeing. 'Rocket Mortgage understands that home is where I can be myself,' said the actor, who then pulled on his mane to reveal he was wearing a hairpiece. 'And that feels pretty darn good.'   Budwesier  Budweiser has a penchant for pulling at heart strings in Super Bowl ads - often using adorable puppies and, of course, its herd of majestic Clydesdales.   One of this year's ads is no different, featuring heartwarming real-life footage of people helping each other as a narrator reads off common complaints about 'typical Americans'.  'America, look beyond the labels. You might be surprised by what you find,' the brand wrote in a Facebook post with the full commercial.   However, the ad has been met with criticism in North Carolina for including protest footage from the 2016 Charlotte Uprising civil unrest which some say opened old wounds. Hard Rock International  Hard Rock International went all in on its first Super Bowl ad.  It enlisted Michael Bay for a frenetic commercial showing a frenzied heist caper involving halftime performer Jennifer Lopez and her fiance Alex Rodriguez. DJ Khaled, Pitbull, and Steven Van Zandt also made a cameo in the big budget ad.  Coca Cola  The soft drink giant brought attracted star power for a commercial spruiking the launch of Coke Energy.  The ad showed actor Jonah Hill rallying to meet Martin Scorsese at a party by drinking the company's new energy drink.  Coca Cola forked over more than $11 million for the 60-second spot, but its unclear how much they paid funnyman Hill and legendary director Scorcese to star in the clip.   Cheetos Cheetos bought a Super Bowl slot for the first time in 10 years - hoping to make a splash by featuring MC Hammer.    The 90s hip-hop star brings back his iconic line 'Can't Touch This' to promote the brand's new Cheetos Popcorn.  Hammer is seen popping out of various objects behind people as they avoid performing mundane tasks like doing office work, helping carry things and holding babies because their fingers are covered in orange dust.  Microsoft  Microsoft's Super Bowl commercial sends an uplifting message by celebrating San Francisco 49ers offensive assistant coach Katie Sowers, who will become the first woman to coach in the big game on Sunday.   The ad shows Sowers, who is also the first openly gay person to coach in the Super Bowl, reflecting on her childhood love of football and her rise through the NFL coaching ranks.  At the end, she tells the camera: 'All it takes is one, and then it opens the door for so many,' before text on the screen reads: 'Thanks Katie for being the one Little Caesars Little Caesars seizes on the age-old saying 'best thing since sliced bread' in its first-ever Super Bowl commercial promoting its new delivery service.   The ad stars Office alum Rainn Wilson as the disgruntled CEO of 'Sliced Bread, Inc'  who implodes in the wake of Little Caesars announcing that customers can now get pizzas delivered to their door.   Wilson delivers the same intensity and incompetence fans loved from his Office character Dwight Schrute as the Sliced Bread headquarters descends into chaos after Little Caesars took over as 'the new best thing'.  Avocados From Mexico Avocados from Mexico have carved out a niche with humorous ads featuring avocados, but they may have veered a little too far into 'random' territory with this effort featuring a home shopping network with fake products such as a baby carrier-like device for avocados.  'I thought the Avocados from Mexico spot felt like a random and gratuitous use of celebrity,' said Steve Merino, chief creative officer of Aloysius, Butler & Clark in Wilmington, Delaware.  'Not only did it not make sense to have Molly Ringwald as your spokesperson, it was also a bit of a distraction.' Squarespace Winona Ryder went back to Winona, Minnesota - which she is named after - to create a website for the town in this Super Bowl Sunday ad.   The cutesy commercial showed Ryder in a snowdrift on her laptop being confronted by a 'Fargo'-like cop. The Edward Scissorhands star is also involved in a separate marketing campaign for the company.  Bud Light Seltzer    On Wednesday, Bud Light released two commercials - both featuring the superstar rapper - that fans can choose from to run during the big game. Both of them show him downing Bud Light Seltzer, which the beer giants released earlier this year to try and keep up with brands like White Claw and Truly. The first ad show Malone going into a store to buy Bud Light before he notices the seltzer.  This then sets off a fight in his brain between tattooed characters over which one he should choose. In the end, he decides to choose both because he is 'rich'. In the second spot he is in a bar and tries the mango-flavored Bud Light Seltzer for the first time.  The taste sets off another battle in his brain where 'workers' ask all of his senses how the 100-calorie drink tastes. Sabra hummus Sabra hummus set out to show how versatile its dip can be by featuring a wide range of celebrity characters in its Super Bowl commercial. A teaser for the ad made headlines last week after it was revealed to be the first time drag queens have appeared in a Super Bowl commercial.    The teaser featured Kim Chi and Miz Cracker, who appeared on RuPaul's Drag Race, getting ready for a performance.  'I hope this doesn't give me helmet hair,' Miz Cracker says as she tries to pull a helmet over one of her massive wigs.   Another teaser featured feuding Real Housewives of New Jersey stars Teresa Giudice and Caroline Manzo coming together to enjoy a bowl of hummus.   Rapper T-Pain is expected to make an appearance in the full commercial airing during the Super Bowl.  'We're bringing a diverse group of personalities to the table and demonstrating just how incredibly versatile, relevant and relatable hummus is today. We think we've got something for everyone,' said Jason Levine, chief marketing officer for Sabra. Kellogg's Pop Tarts  Kellogg's went for quirky  in this commercial starring Queer Eye's Jonathan Van Ness.  In a pseudo infomercial, Van Ness was seen describing  the new Pop Tarts pretzel snack.   The ad appeared to work on one viewer, who wrote on Twitter: 'I am NEVER struggling to snack but if Jonathan Van Ness says I need pop tarts then bring me 500 of them immediately'. Avocados From Mexico    Audi The Super Bowl always attracts automakers launching a new vehicles, and this year nearly every carmaker touted an electric car. Audi showed 'Game of Thrones' actress Maisie Williams singing 'Let it Go' from the Disney smash Frozen to promote Audi´s suite of electric vehicles. 'Maisie Williams, Frozen, and electric cars. Three of my favorite things in life in one commercial. Selective marketing did its job with this one,' one thrilled viewer posted to Twitter.  Snickers  A tinge of surreal weirdness crept into several of this year's advertisements - including one from Snickers.   The chocolate company imagined a world where people sing on a hilltop (an homage to a famous 'Hilltop' Coke ad) about digging a giant hole and putting a giant Snickers in it because the 'world is out of sorts.' Tide  Laundry detergent label Tide made an impact on viewers by running a commercial that featured characters attending a Super Bowl party.  The relatable ad featured a woman (Emily Hampshire) accidentally smearing a friend's white shirt with sauce after she excitedly watches her team make a touchdown.  Thanks to Tide's Power PODS, the guy with the smeared shirt (Charlie Day) is able to wait 'until later' to do his laundry, as the cleaning product is able to remove old stains.    Pringles  Pringles enlisted Adult Swim's animated 'Rick and Morty' duo with a meta ad in which the characters realize they're stuck inside a commercial. 'A long way from the old campaign of 'Once you Pop you Cannot Stop!' That's a good thing. Very funny, perfect for the target consumer, and should sell a bunch of Pringles,' tweeted Jim Stengel, the former global marketing officer of Procter & Gamble.   WeatherTech Vehicle parts seller WeatherTech enlisted the help of dog Scout suffering from cancer for its Super Bowl 2020 advert.   
