sport football
{ By Daniel Davis For Mailonline   Published:  19:11, 2 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7955455/Bale-Giroud-Cavani-face-uncertain-futures-stars-left-shelf.html }
There were a number of wantaway stars who failed to secure moves away on transfer deadline day. Transfer requests were met with failed negotiations, journeys across the world shuddered to a premature halt and dream returns to boyhood clubs had been left shattered - with several players now stuck in limbo until the end of the campaign. Sportsmail takes a look at those unlucky enough to now be facing uncertain futures at their current clubs...  GARETH BALE Tottenham were ultimately forced to concede defeat on deadline day after making a shock move for former star Gareth Bale. Sportsmail revealed on Thursday that the North London club opened talks with Real Madrid over the Wales international, but Bale's hefty £600,000-a-week wage played a part in the deal collapsing.  Tottenham are believed to have even sent representatives to Madrid in an attempt to structure an ambitious package, but Bale was reluctant to take a pay cut. And after negotiations were brought to an unsuccessful close, news then emerged that Bale had been left out of the squad to take on local rivals Atletico on Saturday. Zinedine Zidane was adamant that Bale would remain in the Spanish capital, but a move away from the LaLiga title hopefuls in the summer could be a possibility with the winger appearing to have fallen out of favour. OLIVIER GIROUD Chelsea boss Frank Lampard was visibly angered after revealing that there would be no last-gasp transfer business of any kind at Stamford Bridge.  The club's attempts to sign Dries Mertens and Edinson Cavani proved fruitless, meaning Olivier Giroud would be forced to remain in London. The Frenchman remained professional during the window, according to Lampard, but his desire to leave in search of regular game time was made clear. The World Cup winner attracted interest from Tottenham, Lazio, Inter Milan and West Ham, and has largely been forced to play second fiddle behind Tammy Abraham and Michy Batshuayi. Giroud is likely to secure a move away in the summer, with several of Europe's largest clubs certain to consider swooping for the target man. EDINSON CAVANI Despite handing in a transfer request at Paris Saint-Germain, Edinson Cavani will remain in the French capital until the end of the campaign.  The star striker has just six months remaining on his contract and wanted to secure a move to Atletico Madrid - but PSG were reluctant to allow Cavani to leave and received no suitable offers.  Reports indicated that Atletico were unable to match PSG's demands for the frontman, who has struggled to move ahead of Inter Milan loanee Mauro Icardi in the pecking order.  Chelsea were also believed to be interested in moving for Cavani, with boss Lampard requesting the club bolster his attacking options, but the 32-year-old now appears set to leave for free in the summer. NEMANJA MATIC Manchester United's Serbian midfielder admitted he is open to extending his contract at Old Trafford, but discussions over a new deal are yet to commence. Ole Gunnar Solskjaer even believes Matic is now playing his best football since joining the club from Chelsea - although the 31-year-old has always maintained his future remains unclear. Matic also revealed that several clubs had been interested in signing him last month, and the former Benfica star's contract is set to expire at the end of the season. But with Paul Pogba and Scott McTominay still yet to return from injury, and the big-money signing of Bruno Fernandes, Matic may once again struggle for regular match action despite his recent return to form.   CEDRIC BAKAMBU Barcelona made the incredible decision to pull the plug on a deal to sign Cedric Bakambu from Beijing Guoan while the player was flying from China to Spain. The 28-year-old striker saw the humorous side to his predicament, requesting football website Transfermarkt to change the transfer history on his profile to read 'Almost Barcelona'. The Catalan club wrapped up negotiations to sign Bakambu  - with a deadline day deal appearing a certainty subject to a medical. But the former Villarreal frontman found out that Barcelona had instead turned their attention to other targets after the first leg of his flight. Barcelona sporting director Eric Abidal delivered the shocking news over the phone, and Bakambu will now have to wait until the end of the Chinese Super League's suspension to shake off the sizeable setback. JOSHUA KING Despite Bournemouth manager Eddie Howe refusing to play down speculation surrounding the future of Josh King, a move to Manchester United always appeared unlikely.  The Norwegian striker was reportedly left disappointed after the Old Trafford giants informed the South Coast club that they would pursue other targets after failing to reach an agreement. A £20million bid submitted late on Thursday was dismissed by the Bournemouth hierarchy as a 'joke', with the top flight strugglers demanding a fee at least twice as much.  United eventually opted to seal a late deal for former Watford star Odion Ighalo, leaving King to focus on helping Bournemouth avoid relegation.  Howe admitted that King's absence has affected the Cherries' form, saying: 'We've missed him since he's been injured so we'll be very reluctant to lose him, speaking as the manager.'   RODRIGO MORENO  Barcelona attempted to pull off a surprise loan deal for Valencia striker Rodrigo Moreno, according to SPORT.  The Catalan giants were left reeling from Luis Suarez's knee injury, which required the former Liverpool star to undergo surgery and will rule him out for four months.  And after the club compiled a shortlist of stop-gap replacements, Rodrigo appeared set for a Nou Camp switch. But Valencia were believed to only be open to discussing a permanent deal, and negotiations were brought to a premature end.  Rodrigo, who returned from injury for the Mestalla outfit against Quique Setien's title chasers, was ultimately denied the opportunity to impress alongside the likes of Lionel Messi and Antoine Griezmann. MOUSSA DEMBELE Highly-rated Lyon frontman Moussa Dembele was also reportedly coveted by Chelsea last month, but both the player and club president were adamant that the former Celtic star would remain in France. There were reports of a £34million bid being rejected by the Ligue 1 giants, but the Blues were ultimately unable to provide further competition for Tammy Abraham, much to the disgust of boss Lampard. Lyon chief Jean-Michel Aulas said at the start of January: 'Moussa is an excellent player. A player who we need. We are taking explicit measures in our recruitment to not bring someone in who will compete for his position.' But with Manchester United also touted to make a move for the 23-year-old, Dembele appears certain to make a Premier League switch sooner rather than later.  NATHAN FERGUSON Crystal Palace hoped to seal a deal rising to £10million with West Brom for England Under-20 defender Nathan Ferguson on deadline day. But a medical flagged up a knee problem - and Sportsmail believes that the issue would have required surgery, meaning the switch was eventually scrapped. The two clubs thrashed out an agreement earlier in the week over the 19-year-old, but further talks after the setback were unable to lead to a way forward for the deal.  Palace lined up Ferguson as their replacement for Aaron Wan-Bissaka, who joined Manchester United for £50million last summer - and suffered further late disappointment after target Jarrod Bowen joined West Ham. Ferguson will remain in the Midlands for the rest of the season, with another future move away potentially hinging on correcting the knee problem that derailed his top flight opportunity.  VICTOR WANYAMA  Despite Tottenham boss Jose Mourinho's midfield quandary, Victor Wanyama has been unable to force himself into his first-team plans in North London. The former Celtic midfield enforcer's career appears to be hanging in the balance after loan bids from Amiens and Leganes broke down. His £65,000-a-week wage packet also ensured a return to the Scottish Premiership champions crashed into the buffers, with Wanyama believed to have been unwilling to take a pay cut in order to force through the move. But with 18 months remaining on his contract, the Kenyan international will now see out the rest of the campaign with limited opportunities to impress under Mourinho.  A permanent transfer surely beckons at the end of the season, but Wanyama will likely have to make compromises to ensure that his nightmare spell in the capital is finally brought to an end.   
