sport football
{ By Laura Fox For Mailonline   Published:  14:05, 2 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7956979/Man-City-star-Riyad-Mahrez-dating-RHOC-star-Dawn-Wards-daughter-Taylor-split-wife.html }
Manchester City player Riyad Mahrez is reportedly dating Real Housewives Of Cheshire star Dawn Ward's daughter Taylor after splitting from his wife. A source claimed that the football star, 28, has been on a string of dates with the beauty, 22,  after ending his marriage to ex-model Rita Johal. The source also claimed that Taylor - who has been linked to Riyad's teammate Sergio Ageuro - refused to pursue a romance until she knew his marriage was over, and she even supported him at Man City's EFL semi-final match on Wednesday. 'Riyad and Taylor get on brilliantly, and initially started hanging out as mates. He thinks she's gorgeous, and has joined her and her pals for a few group dates,' the source told The Sun On Sunday. 'They've been friends for a while but Taylor refused to go there romantically until she knew his marriage was over. She is very much a girls' girl and would never break that code. 'Taylor is stunning and Riyad’s team-mates have been ribbing him about how he’s been punching above his weight.' MailOnline has contacted representatives for Riyad Mahrez, Rita Johal and Taylor Ward for comment. Last year it was reported that Taylor had been dating Riyad's teammate Aguero, after he split from wife Gianna in 2012. A source told The Sun at the time: 'About two weeks ago they went for a spa day together. And they were on a pal's Instagram too before Christmas.'   Taylor's dad Ashley, 45, is also a former footballer who retired from the sport in 2005. Riyad tied the knot with wife Rita in 2015 and they share two daughters.  In November 2019 it was reportedly that the Premier League champion was furious when heavyweight champion Deontay Wilder flirted with his ex-model wife in a nightclub. Friends say the pair were 'chatting intently' at Wilder's VIP table in the trendy Manchester nightspot, popular among big-spending footballers and WAGS. 'They were chatting intently, laughing and joking. You could see there was chemistry there and a real connection,' a source told The Sun. 'But because of where it was, a lot of people noticed how well they seemed to be getting along.' 'It's a club full of footballers and Wags, which even some of Riyad's team-mates go to. Rita was actually on a night out with Riyad's sisters who she really gets on with. 'And they did not appear to be happy with what was going on. One even seemed to go and get Rita, to take her away from ­Deontay, who was of course trying to keep her with him.' 
