{ By James Sharpe and Andrew Warshaw For The Mail On Sunday   Published:  22:30, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/sportsnews/article-8033201/Football-dock-concussion-substitution-delay.html }
The introduction of concussion substitutes in football is to be delayed again after experts failed to agree on the best way to protect players. Proposals will be discussed by lawmakers at the International Football Association Board (IFAB) annual general meeting in Belfast next week but it is expected that no definite decision will be made other than the possibility of trialling concussion subs in select competitions next season. The latest delay will come as a huge blow in the campaign for strict concussion protocols in sport, a battle The Mail on Sunday has been fighting since 2013.  Further concerns over head injuries were raised during the Premier League game between Manchester City and Leicester when striker Kelechi Iheanacho was allowed to play on after being punched in the head during a collision with City goalkeeper Ederson only to be removed at half-time. IFAB faced criticism in December when, in the wake of a ground-breaking study that revealed footballers were three-and-a-half times more likely to die from brain injuries such as dementia, they opted not to take immediate action but to put together an expert panel to discuss what to do next. It is understood they feel further discussions are needed amid conflicting advice from their panel. 'The topic is so complex,' IFAB secretary Lukas Brud told The Mail on Sunday. 'Substitutes may be the way going forward but we need to continue fact-finding. We also need to look at the causes of concussion. Protecting our players is our number one priority. 'We are not sitting here twiddling our thumbs. We are talking about this daily, learning from people who really know about the subject. 'We don't want to waste time but we also want to look at it with those who can provide value to the discussion, with clear medical evidence and then find solutions.' The FA favour 10-minute temporary concussion subs as used in rugby while the Premier League back an alternative idea of players who show symptoms of concussion being examined for three minutes with the possibility of an additional permanent substitute during that assessment or at a later stage of the game — over and above the permitted three. Football's world players union, FIFpro, are backing the FA's plan and have branded the Premier League's proposals a health risk. 'Any proposal that continues to give doctors only three minutes to assess a player with a suspected concussion is not a significant improvement on existing regulations,' FIFpro general secretary Jonas Baer-Hoffmann told us. 'In the high-pressure environment of a match, doctors must be given enough time and space to make the correct decision. 'We strongly advocate for a new regulation which permits a temporary substitute for 10 minutes so that doctors have sufficient time to assess a player with a suspected concussion. This would substantially reduce the risk of mistakes and protect the long-term health of players.' Arsene Wenger, FIFA's new head of football development, sits on an IFAB's expert group and is understood to have expressed his opposition to the Premier League's plan. However, Michel d'Hooghe, FIFA's medical committee chairman who sits on the same panel as Wenger, said both ideas were flawed and that the status quo of players being assessed for three minutes by team doctors should be preserved and he believes that teams could abuse the extra substitute rule to gain a tactical advantage. 'The current situation in national competitions is that the team doctor, who knows his players best, does a short examination and decides, yes or no, after three minutes whether a player can continue,' said d'Hooghe. 'The three minutes are not intended to come to a complete diagnosis but I'm not in favour of 10 minutes and nor am I in favour of a fourth substitution — except during extra-time — because it could lead to a lot of cheating. 'I'm pretty sure that IFAB will have another meeting with the experts before carrying out any. There are so many different ideas.' 
