{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  07:32, 2 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7957617/Timeline-McKenzie-sports-grants-scandal.html }
TIMELINE OF THE SPORTS GRANTS SCANDAL January 15 * Auditor-general report released into $100 million Community Sport Infrastructure Program. Two main conclusions: "the award of grant funding was not informed by an appropriate assessment process and sound advice; the successful applications were not those that had been assessed as the most meritorious in terms of the published program guidelines". January 16 * Former sports minister Bridget McKenzie says no rules were broken. "The reality was there were many hundreds of meritorious projects that we just didn't have the funding available for." * Labor says McKenzie, who is now in cabinet as agriculture minister, should be sacked or resign January 17 * Prime Minister Scott Morrison refers issue to his department chief, but does not make this publicly known * Minor parties say they will back a Senate inquiry into the matter, when parliament resumes on February 4 January 18 * Slater and Gordon says a class action is possible as tens of millions of dollars in sporting club grants were awarded to clubs whose applications for funding would otherwise have been unsuccessful. January 20 * PM says in interviews he is taking the auditor report seriously and that he's tasked the attorney-general with looking at legal issues raised in it. January 21 * Labor wants the details published of all grant applications and their assessment scores * Law academic Professor Anne Twomey questioned whether the constitution was breached as the federal government has no power to hand out money to sports clubs. January 22 * PM publicly reveals he sought an inquiry by his department chief Phil Gaetjens * Media reports say McKenzie was a member of a gun club which received a grant. The membership was not declared by the minister. Her office says the membership was a gift and did not need declaring. January 23 * PM reveals he has also referred gun club matter to the departmental inquiry. He says of the inquiry: "I'll let him do his job and then I will look at that advice and take whatever action is necessary." January 28 * The ABC reveals Sport Australia warned McKenzie's office political interference was compromising the agency's independence * Some 94 of 223 projects deemed successful in the first round failed to meet Sport Australia's threshold, with a project in a Victorian Nationals seat scoring 98 out of 100 missing out January 29 * Nationals MPs offer lukewarm support for McKenzie. Leader Michael McCormack says he'll wait for the outcome of the investigation. February 2 * McKenzie resigns as Nationals deputy leader and minister after the Gaetjens investigation finds she had undeclared conflicts of interest. But the report rejects claims she politicised the grants scheme. 
