sport football
{ By Kieran Jackson For Mailonline   Published:  10:50, 1 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/nfl/article-7948903/Ahead-tightest-Super-Bowl-years-influence-kickers-crucial.html }
Among a 53-man NFL roster, the position of field-goal kicker is just about as high-stakes, high-risk and high-reward a career gets in professional sport. While Patrick Mahomes, Jimmy Garoppolo and Co enjoy the spotlight ahead of Super Bowl LIV, spare a thought for kickers Harrison Butker and Robbie Gould of the Kansas City Chiefs and San Francisco 49ers respectively. In this business, there is no room for misjudgment. With 100 million eyes watching, one perfectly executed routine could change your life. Equally, one screw-up could see your career plummet to irrecoverable depths. This is the life of an NFL kicker. The most expendable spot on the team, but simultaneously one of the most significant. With a career spanning 25 years, hall-of-famer Morten Andersen knows all too well the concentrated individual pressure in those fight-or-flight moments. Speaking exclusively to Sportsmail, Andersen says: 'Teams are very quick nowadays to pull the trigger on that position, more so than any other position. 'For some reason the kicker position has the stigma of "we can go to the bar and get another guy". 'I think it's bought out of a misunderstanding and naivety about the position and what it takes. If you have a guy with potential you need to develop him – just like with any other position.' Nicknamed the 'Great Dane', Andersen played for five different franchises - including the Chiefs. But it was with the Atlanta Falcons, in his first spell, where he came closest to the ultimate prize, slotting a game-winning field goal in overtime in the 1998 NFC Championship game to send his team to Super Bowl XXXIII. Hosted in Miami, at the same stadium where this year's showpiece will be contested, Andersen and the team underperformed and slumped to a 34-19 defeat against reigning champions the Denver Broncos. The unique, fortnight-long preparation played a part. 'I was not a fan of it,' said Andersen, ambassador for betting comparison site BonusCodeBets.co.uk. 'I wish we had played a week after the Championship game so there had been less time for distractions and dealing with ticket requests, logisitics and press coverage. 'I didn't like being in Miami and I felt isolated in the hotel. It was a fortress. You couldn't go anywhere - it was a circus! 'The experience wasn't great, the whole vibe was very chaotic and stressful.' Despite the disappointment, Andersen continued to play until 2007 and retired at the age of 47. He finished his career with the most NFL appearances of all time at 382, a record he still holds to this day - he is currently 17 games ahead of fellow kicker Adam Vinatieri. Andersen puts that longevity and consistency at the very top of his profession down to the mental techniques he used, in a time when cognitive preparation wasn't common knowledge. 'The mental training and visualisation I did, making practice more difficult than games, gave me an advantage on gameday. 'You trust your mental preparation. I tried to stay in the moment and understand that not one kick would define my ability as a kicker.' Well, try telling that to Daniel Carlson, who was waived a day after missing three kicks for the Minnesota Vikings last season. Or Blair Walsh, whose infamous 27-yard miss cost the Vikings again, in the 2015 play-offs.  Or Scott Norwood, who will forever be known for his botched 47-yard field goal with eight seconds left on the clock, which cost the Buffalo Bills in their 20-19 defeat by New York Giants at Super Bowl XXV. For Butker and Gould though, who have both had superb seasons, the Great Dane has some advice. Harrison Butker - Kansas City Chiefs  • Total points: 147  • Field goal success rate: 34/38  • Longest field goal: 56 yards  • Point-After-Touchdown success rate: 45/48 Robbie Gould - San Francisco 49ers • Total points: 110 • Field Goal success rate: 23/31 • Longest field goal: 47 yards • Point-After-Touchdown success rate: 41/42 Statistics according to The Football Database  'I had a one-kick mentality. I had a saying: "when a kick leaves the foot it leaves the mind". Mind you, easier said than done.' Of course, some form of mental training is almost a prerequisite nowadays. Butker and Gould are both professional athletes at the pinnacle of their profession, and both will undoubtedly have their own methods of visualising scenarios for the showpiece. But what makes sport so engrossing is that opportunity for drama. Expect the unexpected. Particularly with a field-goal kick: from the snap, to the hold and then the swipe of the leg, everything has to be meticulous in terms of timing, precision and execution. And somehow, no level of physical and mental preparation can compensate for that kick deep in the fourth-quarter with everything on the line. Your team has guided the ball within range, against the clock, and it's all down to you. So, when your eyes are on the headline-makers, potential MVPs and big-name coaches on the sideline, spare a thought for Harrison Butker and Robbie Gould. Should the game be as close as anticipated, the location of the Vince Lombardi Trophy could well depend on how far, and how straight, they can kick a football. How could something go so wrong with something so simple? Come Sunday, we just might find out. 
