sport football
{ By Tim Stickings For Mailonline   Published:  12:24, 31 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7951965/Emotional-father-touches-coffins-three-children-Dublin-funeral.html }
The father of three young children who were found dead in Dublin last week watched their tiny coffins being carried into a church for their funeral service today.   The bodies of Conor McGinley, nine, his brother Darragh, seven, and their sister Carla, three, were discovered at their Dublin home last Friday.  Their mother, 43-year-old Deirdre Morley, has been charged with their murder and made her first court appearance on Wednesday.  Today a priest at their funeral in Rathcoole told mourners including their father Andrew McGinley that a 'shroud of darkness' had descended on the community.  'Conor, Darragh and Carla. I love you, I love you, I love you,' Mr McGinley told the congregation.  Mr McGinley watched as the three white coffins were carried from a hearse into the Church of the Holy Family.   Rathcoole Boys Football Club provided a guard of honour outside in recognition of the boys' love for the sport.  Giving a eulogy, Mr McGinley said his children had been fans of Lego, the Foo Fighters and the Disney film Frozen.  'Special thanks to princesses Ana and Elsa and also to a snowman called Olaf from our princess Carla,' he said.  He went on: 'We often misuse words. When Ireland would lose a match, I used to say I was heartbroken. I now know what that really means. 'We, as a family, are heartbroken. 'It will only be with your help, support and friendship that we will be able to patch our hearts together in some way but we will still be forever heartbroken. 'Conor, Darragh and Carla. I love you, I love you, I love you.'   Clergyman Kevin Doherty told the congregation: 'Their very going from us has left a chasm of absence in our lives.  'It is like a pall of darkness, a shroud of darkness, has come down upon us, and no-one is left untouched.'   He continued: 'This darkness has come to our homes, to our families, to parents. And it has come to each one of us, personally. 'And so, the absence of these three beautiful children cries out to us. It cries out into the sheer darkness of bewilderment and loss that surrounds us. 'And, as it cries out, it brings with it, into our lives, the deepest of pain and heart-wrenching grief.' The clergyman said the light of their beautiful lives shone like the brightest of stars in the lives of so many. 'It shone as the light of joy-filled happiness, the light of child-filled fun, the light of a love so wonderful it touched the hearts of everyone,' he said. 'This is the love that does not come to an end. It finds its way home to heaven.'  A funeral notice for the three youngsters described them as 'cherished children' who are 'sorrowfully missed by everyone'.  Their mother, Deirdre Morley, 43, from Parson's Court in Newcastle, has been charged with their murders. She appeared before Dublin District Court at the Criminal Courts of Justice on Wednesday evening and was remanded in custody until next Wednesday.   
