sport football
{ By Associated Press   Published:  05:07, 31 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-7950783/AP-News-Brief-12-04-m-EST.html }
Trump acquittal now likely Wednesday; Senate nixes witnesses WASHINGTON (AP) - The Senate narrowly rejected Democratic demands to summon witnesses for President Donald Trump´s impeachment trial late Friday, all but ensuring Trump's acquittal in just the third trial to threaten a president's removal in U.S. history. But senators pushed off final voting on his fate to next Wednesday. The delay in timing showed the weight of a historic vote bearing down on senators, despite prodding by the president eager to have it all behind him in an election year and ahead of his State of the Union speech Tuesday night. Trump and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell spoke by phone to lock in the schedule during a tense night at the Capitol as rushed negotiations proceeded on and off the Senate floor. The trial came to a standstill for about an hour. A person unauthorized to discuss the call was granted anonymity to describe it. The president wanted to arrive for his speech at the Capitol with acquittal secured, but that will not happen. Instead, the trial will resume Monday for final arguments, with time Monday and Tuesday for senators to speak. The final voting is planned for 4 p.m. Wednesday, the day after Trump's speech. Trump's acquittal is all but certain in the Senate, where his GOP allies hold the majority and there's nowhere near the two-thirds needed for conviction and removal. ___ GOP senators seek to acquit Trump without condoning conduct WASHINGTON (AP) - There is no question, Sen. Lamar Alexander said, that President Donald Trump actions were "inappropriate" when he asked Ukraine's leader to investigate Democratic rival Joe Biden. But not bad enough, he said, to warrant Trump's removal from office, or even to hear from witnesses or other evidence. That distinction has been embraced by other Republicans as the trial moves toward a near-certain acquittal of the president in the coming days. It's also in line with arguments from Trump's legal team, which after initially asserting that the president did "absolutely nothing wrong" moved toward insisting that Trump had done nothing impeachable - and attacked the trial as a partisan exercise. The evolving arguments have allowed Republicans to cite political and historical grounds for acquitting Trump without feeling compelled to condone his behavior, a split-the-difference judgment that avoids a clean break with the president as he stands for reelection. Alexander, who is retiring from office at the end of the year, was the most vocal, saying he did not need to hear more evidence to conclude that Trump was wrong to ask a foreign leader to investigate a rival. ___ US bars foreigners coming from China for now over virus fear WASHINGTON (AP) - The United States on Friday declared a public health emergency and took drastic steps to significantly restrict entry into the country because of a new virus that hit China and has spread to other nations. President Donald Trump has signed an order that will temporarily bar foreign nationals, other than immediate family of U.S. citizens and permanent residents, who have traveled in China within the last 14 days. The new restrictions, which take effect at 5 p.m. EST on Sunday, were announced by Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar, who is coordinating the U.S. response. "It is likely that we will continue to see more cases in the United States in the coming days and weeks, including some limited person-to-person transmissions," Azar said. "The American public can be assured the full weight of the U.S. government is working to safeguard the health and safety of the American people." Americans returning from China will be allowed into the country, but will face screening at select ports of entry and required to undertake 14 days of self-screening to ensure they don't pose a health risk. Those returning from Hubei province, the center of the outbreak, will be subject to up to 14 days of mandatory quarantine. Beginning Sunday, the U.S. will also begin funneling all flights to the U.S. from China to seven major airports where passengers can be screened for illness. ___ Britain leaves the European Union, leaps into the unknown LONDON (AP) - So long, farewell, auf wiedersehen, adieu. With little fanfare, Britain left the European Union on Friday after 47 years of membership, taking a leap into the unknown in a historic blow to the bloc. The U.K.'s departure became official at 11 p.m. (2300GMT), midnight in Brussels, where the EU is headquartered. Thousands of enthusiastic Brexit supporters gathered outside Britain´s Parliament to welcome the moment they'd longed for since Britain´s 52%-48% vote in June 2016 to walk away from the club it had joined in 1973. The flag-waving crowd erupted in cheers as Big Ben bonged 11 times - on a recording. Parliament's real bell has been silenced for repairs. In a message from nearby 10 Downing St., Prime Minister Boris Johnson called Britain´s departure "a moment of real national renewal and change." But many Britons mourned the loss of their EU identity, and some marked the passing with tearful vigils. There was also sadness in Brussels as British flags were quietly removed from the bloc´s many buildings. ___ The shunned: People from virus-hit city tracked, quarantined BEIJING (AP) - Meron Mei, a sophomore at Wuhan University in the Chinese city at the heart of a viral outbreak, went back to his home village and started to cough. So he went to the hospital and got checked. Doctors determined it was a common cold, not the new coronavirus, he says, and he returned home. Then a week ago, he says, five officers showed up at his house in Xishui County, a two hour drive from Wuhan. They wore masks and wielded blue, gun-shaped thermometers. Now Mei finds himself under constant surveillance by plainclothes police. His doorstep has been posted with a red warning: "Do not approach - patient with suspected pneumonia." Doctors in gowns, goggles and masks check his temperature three times a day, and the government calls him constantly to monitor his condition - despite tests that he says show his body is free of the coronavirus. His phone is constantly checked; its camera has been disabled and his photos deleted. He relayed his story to The Associated Press via messages in English to prevent officers from reading them. "I am in prison," said Mei, whose story could not be independently verified by the AP. "I´m so angry. I feel physically and mentally exhausted." As China institutes the largest quarantine in human history, locking down more than 50 million people in the center of the country, those who have recently been to Wuhan are being tracked, monitored, turned away from hotels and placed into isolation at their homes and in makeshift quarantine facilities. ___ Woman says Weinstein yelled, 'You owe me!´ before raping her NEW YORK (AP) - A key accuser in Harvey Weinstein´s trial testified Friday that he raped her twice, once bellowing, "You owe me!" as he dragged her into a bedroom. The first time, the heavyset Hollywood tycoon trapped her in a New York hotel room in March 2013, and angrily ordered her to undress as he loomed over her, and then raped her, she told jurors. Still, she kept in touch, sending him flattering emails, because "his ego was so fragile," she said, and it "made me feel safe, worshipping him in this sense. ... I wanted to be perceived as innocent and naive." Then, eight months later at a Los Angeles hotel where she worked as a hairdresser, she told Weinstein that she was dating an actor, she said. "You owe me one more time!" he screamed, she told jurors. She said she begged him not to take off her clothes, but he said, "I don´t have time for games" and ripped off her pants before pushing her legs apart and raping her. ___ Police open fire at 'impaired' driver in Mar-a-Lago breach PALM BEACH, Fla. (AP) - Law enforcement agents opened fire on an SUV driver who smashed through two security checkpoints at Mar-a-Lago on Friday in what authorities described as the actions of "an obviously impaired" driver but not an intentional attack on President Donald Trump's resort. The driver, Hannah Roemhild, 30, of Connecticut, who identifies herself on her Facebook page as an opera singer, was later arrested at a nearby motel. No one was injured, authorities said, and Trump was not at the Palm Beach club at the time, although he was scheduled to arrive there later in the day. Roemhild was not at any time "even remotely close" to getting into the "inner perimeter" of the president's resort, Palm Beach County Sheriff Ric Bradshaw said at a news conference. He said Roemhild, "obviously impaired," was dancing on top of her vehicle outside the Breakers hotel, about 3 miles (5 kilometers) from Mar-a-Lago, when an off-duty Florida Highway Patrol officer who was working hotel security approached her. Roemhild jumped into the SUV and refused to open the window or acknowledge the officer, Bradshaw said. She then put the car in reverse and began driving away. The trooper smashed the window and tried to grab the steering wheel, but was unable to stop her, the sheriff said. ___ Trump to tout U.S. 'comeback' at State of the Union speech WASHINGTON (AP) - President Donald Trump will use next week´s State of the Union to promote what he calls the "Great American comeback," according to a senior administration official. The speech comes at a moment when Trump is hoping to put his Senate impeachment trial behind him. White House officials say Trump wants to use the nationally-televised address to highlight his administration´s efforts to bolster the economy, tighten immigration rules and lower prescription drug costs just as his reelection effort accelerate. "I think it´s safe to say the speech will celebrate American economic and military strength and present an optimistic vision of America's future," said the senior administration official, who briefed reporters on the broad outlines of the speech that Trump is scheduled to deliver before a joint session of Congress Tuesday But for the second straight year, Trump will deliver his speech with a cloud over his presidency as his Senate impeachment edges to a rancorous close. Last year, Trump was forced to postpone his speech because of the longest government shutdown in the nation's history triggered by bitter partisan battle over his push for funding for his border wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. Trump appeared headed for an all-but-certain impeachment acquittal as senators prepared on Friday to reject efforts to call more witnesses to testify about his efforts to pressure Ukraine's president to investigate former Vice President Joe Biden and his son's business dealings in the Eastern European nation. ___ FDA approves first treatment for kids with peanut allergy WASHINGTON (AP) - The first treatment for peanut allergies is about to hit the market, a big step toward better care for all kinds of food allergies -- but still a long way from a cure. Friday´s approval by the Food and Drug Administration promises to bring some relief to families who´ve lived in fear of an accidental bite of peanuts at birthday parties and play dates, school cafeterias and restaurants. Named Palforzia, it was developed by Aimmune Therapeutics. "It´s been a life-changer," said Nina Nichols, 18, of Washington, whose first encounter with peanuts as a toddler -- a peanut butter cracker shared by a friend -- required a race to the emergency room. She entered a Palforzia research study as a teen and calls it "a security blanket." The treatment is a specially prepared peanut powder swallowed daily in tiny amounts that are gradually increased over months. It trains children´s and teens´ bodies to better tolerate peanut so that an accidental bite is less likely to cause a serious reaction, or even kill in severe cases. Palforzia users still must avoid peanuts just like they always have. ___ How to bet on the Super Bowl as legal sport betting spreads ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP) - With legal sports betting continuing to spread in the U.S., this year's Super Bowl is likely to be among the most wagered-on championship games ever. The gambling industry's trade association, the American Gaming Association, estimates $6.8 billion will be bet legally and illegally on the game. It says 26 million Americans plan to make a bet, up 15% from last year. And a survey by the online bookmaker DraftKings found 78% of respondents say they're more likely to watch the whole game if they have a bet on it. While many football fans are old hats at betting on the big game, through means legal and otherwise, the Feb. 2 game will be only the second since a U.S. Supreme Court ruling that opened the door for all 50 states to offer legal sports betting (so far, 14 offer it). Here is a guide to betting on the big game between the Kansas City Chiefs and the San Francisco 49ers: We will deal here only with legal options from sports books approved and regulated by government authorities in the U.S. This includes making bets in person at a casino or racetrack (call before you go; not every casino or track offers sports betting), or setting up an account from a computer or smartphone with online bookmakers. Here is a list of those approved to take bets in New Jersey; many of these are licensed in other states as well: https://www.nj.gov/oag/ge/sportsbetting.html 
