{ By Heidi Parker and Kelby Vera For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:48, 30 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7949713/Jennifer-Lopez-promises-heartfelt-tribute-Kobe-Bryant-Super-Bowl.html }
Jennifer Lopez promises there would be a 'heartfelt' tribute to Kobe Bryant during the Super Bowl. The 50-year-old singer made the comment when in Miami on Thursday with Shakira for a Super Bowl LIV press conference. The Super Bowl falls exactly one week after the former Lakers basketball player died in a helicopter crash along with his daughter Gianna, 13, in Calabasas, California.   Lopez also said her fiance Alex Rodriguez cried when he told her the athlete had passed.  'Alex came to me with tears in his eyes, and he's like, "You're not going to believe what happened." He was devastated,' said the On The Floor singer. 'He knew Kobe really well. I knew Kobe and Vanessa more in passing. He had come to my last show in Vegas—the both of them—as a date night and we had a beautiful night that night.' She also said, 'I think of how awful that must be for her right now. I've just been praying that God guides her through every moment because she has three more babies to take care of and just wishing that the nightmare was over but it's not going to be. That's life and we have to carry on. But at the same time, it affects us and it will affect us forever.' Shakira said, 'I think we will all be remembering Kobe on Sunday. We'll be celebrating life, and celebrating diversity in this country.' She added the performance is a 'palpable example of how anything is possible.' They will be 'redefining paradigms about age, about race, about background.' 'It doesn't really matter where you're from, how old you are or where you come from, what matters is the message and what you have to say. We have a lot to say,' she added. Jennifer then said, 'When I think of my daughter, when I think of all the little girls in the world to be able to have that, to see that. Two Latina's doing this at this time, in this country at this time, it's just very empowering for us. For me I'm very proud to be able to help push forth that message.'  At the event, Jennifer showed off her athletic side, tossing a perfect spiral when challenged to throw a football on stage. As the ladies stepped on stage, they were given a ball to toss.  Jennifer nailed her throw and while Shakira looked a little hesitant at first, she also expertly demonstrated her aim. J. Lo was perfectly dressed for the event, looking was equal parts sporty and chic in a white hot look which put her taut abs on display. The Hustler's actress donned a contoured bra-top, paired with ivory trousers and matching heels. Adding another elegant touch, she sported diamond-encrusted hoop earrings. Her honey blonde hair was styled sleekly and she went for an earth-toned glow with makeup.  Meanwhile Shakira dressed down in a vintage Guns 'N Roses tee shirt and jeans.  She elevated things just a bit with the addition of heeled boots. After a bit of goofing around, the stars sat down to answer a few questions. Jennifer explained why she thinks this year's game will be particularly empowering, saying: 'The two teams that are playing are run by women, then you have two women headlining the halftime show.   'That statement alone is empowering to me.'  She kept details about the performance close to her chest but did reveal: 'It's a lot of energy, it's entertaining, there's heartfelt moments. — We run the gamut. It's very JLo and Shakira.' She continued: 'It's packed with awesome moments. I want everyone to be surprised… 'Even when we walked in the stadium the other day, there's so much energy. There's so much attention on this show and this game. It's an intense energy. You have to rise to the occasion and be ready.'  During the sit down J. Lo was gifted a bedazzled cup, similar to the one she's seen carrying around to her regular work-outs. This one was extra special, however, designed with this year's Super Bowl logo upon it. Super Bowl 54 will take place in Hard Rock Stadium, Miami Gardens, Florida this Sunday, February 2, pitting the San Francisco 49ers against the Kansas City Chiefs. Kick-off will be at 12:30pm PST/ 3:30PM EST.  
