{ By Martin Samuel - Sport for the Daily Mail   Published:  22:31, 30 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyunion/article-7949213/MARTIN-SAMUEL-Eddie-Joness-future-England-head-coach-real-elephant-room.html }
The last team to win the Six Nations on the back of a losing Rugby World Cup final was — oh wait, sorry, there isn't one. England won in 1992, having previously lost the final to Australia, and France shared the trophy with Wales in 1988 not long after defeat by the All Blacks, but these triumphs were in the days of the Five Nations. In the modern era, three teams from Europe have gone into the competition as losing World Cup finalists and all have been beaten in two of their five games. On Sunday, Eddie Jones's England will begin a campaign to buck that trend. For all his promises of brutality and experience to sweep aside the callow French, it will still not be easy. In 2000, France lost matches to England and Ireland at home and finished Six Nations runners-up. In 2008, England lost to Wales at Twickenham for the first time in 20 years and were beaten 15-9 by Scotland — they squeaked home 23-19 against Italy, too. In 2012, having already lost to England, France suffered the indignity of a 22-21 reverse to Italy, the first time they had lost in that fixture, away. World Cup final setbacks can deliver aftershocks. Are the team emotionally and mentally exhausted? Does the hunger remain? Does a bread and butter competition now underwhelm? These are all valid debates. To which England can add one more — a coach on a two-year contract. In a four-year cycle, what happens to the dynamic of the group when the coach might leave at the midway stage? This is a problem purely of the RFU's making. Having put such intense emphasis on World Cup performance with the recruitment of a gun-for-hire coach from Australia, how can they afford such uncertainty at the halfway point before France in 2023? No wonder there appears such confusion with Jones feeling vulnerable one moment — as if control is being wrested from him — then convinced and settled that his time is coming to an end the next. Recently, Jones was telling friends that he felt his employers were looking to ease him out, that an appointment would be made over his head to make his position close to untenable. A big hitter, a threat to his authority, his mind was spinning with unjustified conspiracy theories. Yet ask him about a situation more than two years hence and he will say it is none of his business. He has two years left on his contract and then it will be on to the next job. This current term is about handling a smooth transition. Yet who could replace Jones, like for like? And surely that person needs more than two years with his squad — particularly if the Saracens contingent have been experiencing the ramifications of their ban, with no prospect of European rugby for at least another year. Rassie Erasmus was less than two years in charge of South Africa before lifting the Webb Ellis Trophy last November, but he was following the unimpressive Allister Coetzee. It will be far harder erasing or adapting the methods of a coaching personality as strong as Jones. Saracens' fate has dominated rugby talk since the World Cup final, yet they are in many ways the least of Jones's problems. As much as he brushes speculation away, his own future is the elephant in the room. Jones is again talking about creating the best team in the world, but how, when the last two years of its development is in the hands of — who? A stranger, as yet unknown. Jones has already identified three potential problem areas — complacency, overcoming increased expectation and the improvements gained by rivals through forensic examination. Jones thinks a team who have reached a World Cup final might believe they do not have to go through that process. Yet a fourth problem is the players' reaction to what is now an interim manager. Even Sir Alex Ferguson felt his Manchester United team lost their way the first time he announced his retirement, which is why he kept it a secret until after the league was won, second time around. After England's last match in Yokohama, Jones spoke about the way teams evolve across four-year cycles between World Cups. Players age, lose form, younger alternatives emerge. Yet England's starting XV in Paris on Sunday will make a virtue of continuity, with Jones promising a physical shock for France's young players. What does that mean? Are France already in the process of preparing for a home World Cup in less than four years? And England? What is Jones preparing for? Is he now in the business of picking this team up or driving it forward? Is this the start of a two-year transition or a two-year audition? One gets the feeling nobody knows, even him. It could be the start of something big, it could be two years unmoored and drifting. It's no way to lose a World Cup, let alone win one. SAUDIS WANT THE WRONG UNITED   More bemusement around the Saudi Arabian takeover of Newcastle when it leaked that the new owners would restore fan favourite Rafael Benitez as manager. Why does a man worth £300billion need to win supporters over with blatantly populist stunts? And why is such a buyer not in the market for another United, namely Manchester? There is great potential in Newcastle, true, but Manchester United have considerably more to offer, including a huge global fan base. And the Glazers are investors, not custodians. They will have a price, and the Saudis are among the few who could afford it. FLIGHT OF FOLLY FOR RASHFORD   'Rashford off to Super Bowl as he steps up fitness battle,' read the headline. The story confirmed that, yes indeed, Marcus Rashford was preparing to fly to Miami this weekend for Super Bowl LIV between the Kansas City Chiefs and the San Francisco 49ers. Quite where stepping up any fitness battle came in was unclear. Rashford has a stress fracture of his back. How a 22-hour return journey to Manchester helps that, who knows? All the leg room in the world isn't much use to back conditions on long haul flights. Michael Atherton, who has been troubled by inflammation issues all his life, rose like a 90-year-old from his business class seat at the end of the flight home from Johannesburg. Rashford is some weeks away from full recovery, but even so. He doesn't need this and it is amazing Manchester United are allowing it. DON'T AIRBRUSH KOBE'S PAST  On social media this week, a lot of people who had never met Kobe Bryant offered their thoughts on his sad passing. There is no question that a hotel maid working at the Lodge & Spa at Cordillera, a resort in Edwards, Colorado, did meet Bryant on June 30, 2003. Yet it is her very real memories these same folk want airbrushed from memory. Felicia Sonmez, a reporter from the Washington Post, tweeted a link to a forensic account of events that night — which ended in an allegation of rape — and found herself the victim of another kind of assault. Her newspaper suspended her, shamefully, and tens of thousands directed their anger at her apparent insensitivity, calling for her to be sacked. The phrase #ByeFelicia — stolen from the film Friday — began trending on Twitter, often from the fingertips of people not brave enough to use their own names. The backlash against the backlash, however, appears to have saved Sonmez from her cowardly employers. The Washington Post, confronted by an internal revolt from hundreds of her colleagues, including Pullitzer Prize winners, have since announced Sonmez was guilty of no more than bad timing. Even that seems to stretch it a little. Anyone who has read the details of the case would find them problematic. Bryant, too, apparently. 'I want to apologise directly to the young woman involved in this incident. I want to apologise to her for my behaviour that night and for the consequences she has suffered in the past year. I now understand how she feels that she did not consent to this encounter,' he wrote, prior to settling a civil court action. So amid the deluge of words eulogising Bryant the athlete, and the man, there was surely also room for this shade. Sonmez had written about her own experiences of sexual abuse in 2018; in the circumstances, her reaction to the unquestioning celebration of Bryant in death was hardly out of character. Yet this remains the dilemma. Separating the athlete from the human being. It can happen in life, too, as the organisers of the Australian Open are discovering as they grapple around the acknowledgement of Margaret Court. I wrote this newspaper's tribute to Bryant on Sunday, the one that appeared in the sports pages the next day. Three quarters in, I paused and wondered whether to include mention of the rape allegation against him. I decided it didn't feel right to record that, but not other aspects of his personal life. So the piece limited itself to Bryant the baller, to his influence on the sport, his athletic style, the respect of his peers. But that doesn't mean there are not other stories to be told; and because some mourners do not want to hear them, it does not mean they do not exist. SHOW ME THE BUNGA-BUNGA! This newspaper has received a complaint from Miss Chiara Giuffrida in relation to an article from January 15 headlined: 'Manchester City stars flew 22 Italian models to £150-a-night Cheshire hotel for 'Bunga-Bunga' party to celebrate 6-1 win.' She claimed that she had in fact travelled to Manchester for the sole purpose of working as a sports journalist. Whereas I travelled to Manchester with the sole purpose of finding a 'Bunga-Bunga' party and ended up with a career in sports journalism. SALA'S WORTH TO CARDIFF: NOTHING  Cardiff made a heartfelt show of sadness and noble commemoration on the anniversary of Emiliano Sala's death. That has been their strategy all along: admirable dignity in front of the cameras. Yet, in court papers, it is revealed what Sala's life was really worth to them: nothing. This is what the club now want to pay for Sala, who believed he was flying to a future in the Premier League when he died. Cardiff began by briefing they would meet their obligations regarding Sala and stating publicly that they were an honourable club. This swiftly degenerated into a horrid legal squabble about money. Now a year on, Cardiff paint themselves as campaigners relating to the use of flights in football and the role of intermediaries in transfers; neither of which seemed to greatly concern them until they were landed with a dead striker and a £15m bill. For his family, the aftermath must be almost as heartbreaking as the tragedy. THE ERIKSEN DILEMMA  Soon after Christian Eriksen signed for Tottenham in 2013, I met a group of Ajax fans. I asked their opinion of him. They extolled his many virtues as one of the finest players in the Eredivisie, but said in some games, particularly some of the big ones, he went missing. Now Eriksen has signed for Inter Milan. One wonders if an Italian journalist idly chatting with some Tottenham fans might elicit the same answer. CRAZY COST OF DAFT DEADLINES  West Ham had agreed their fee for Tomas Soucek, and then the call came. Slavia Prague would like this to be a Czech record, it was said — so they would only do a deal for an additional £200,000. Reluctantly, it was agreed. Then another call. Now the fee was rising by a further £500,000. If this was the summer, West Ham would have told them to get lost. But the January transfer window is different. Clubs buying in January are normally acting out of necessity and under great pressure. So Slavia got their bit extra and West Ham got their player. This can only happen while clubs impose artificial, unnecessary deadlines on their business. Yet, bizarrely, some of them want even more. NOVAK'S A TRUE WIZARD OF OZ  Novak Djokovic has reached the semi-final of the Australian Open eight times. He has never lost. As impressive is his list of vanquished opponents: Roger Federer, Federer, Andy Murray, David Ferrer, Stan Wawrinka, Federer, Lucas Pouille and Federer. Not many rabbits in that list — and quite a lot of Federer. He has never lost a final, either, beating Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, Murray, Rafael Nadal, Murray, Murray, Murray and Nadal. So that's the other members of the big four suitably conquered. If Djokovic defeats Dominic Thiem on Sunday he will surpass Federer's record of seven Australian Open titles. He may one day solve their Margaret Court Arena problem, too. 
