{ By Kelby Vera For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:56, 30 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7948915/Jennifer-Lopez-flashes-abs-throws-football-Super-Bowl-press-event-Shakira.html }
Jennifer Lopez and Shakira will step into the international spotlight when they take the stage during Super Bowl LIV this Sunday. And the starlets looked ready to go, as they appeared at a Miami news conference on Thursday. Jennifer, 50, showed off her athletic side, tossing a perfect spiral when challenged to throw a football on stage. As the ladies stepped on stage, they were given a ball to toss.  Jennifer nailed her throw and while Shakira looked a little hesitant at first, she also expertly demonstrated her aim. J. Lo was perfectly dressed for the event, looking was equal parts sporty and chic in a white hot look which put her taut abs on display. The Hustler's actress donned a contoured bra-top, paired with ivory trousers and matching heels. Adding another elegant touch, she sported diamond-encrusted hoop earrings. Her honey blonde hair was styled sleekly and she went for an earth-toned glow with makeup.  Meanwhile Shakira dressed down in a vintage Guns 'N Roses tee shirt and jeans.  She elevated things just a bit with the addition of heeled boots. After a bit of goofing around, the stars sat down to answer a few questions. Jennifer explained why she thinks this year's game will be particularly empowering, saying: 'The two teams that are playing are run by women, then you have two women headlining the halftime show. — That statement alone is empowering to me.' 'When I think of my daughter and all the girls around the world — to have two Latinas doing this, I'm very proud to put forth that message,' she went on. She kept details about the performance close to her chest but did reveal: 'It's a lot of energy, it's entertaining, there's heartfelt moments. — We run the gamut. It's very JLo and Shakira.' She continued: 'It’s packed with awesome moments. I want everyone to be surprised… 'Even when we walked in the stadium the other day, there’s so much energy. There’s so much attention on this show and this game. It’s an intense energy. You have to rise to the occasion and be ready.'  During the sit down J. Lo was gifted a bedazzled cup, similar to the one she's seen carrying around to her regular work-outs. This one was extra special, however, designed with this year's Super Bowl logo upon it. Super Bowl 54 will take place in Hard Rock Stadium, Miami Gardens, Florida this Sunday, February 2, pitting the San Francisco 49ers against the Kansas City Chiefs. Kick-off will be at 12:30pm PST/ 3:30PM EST.  
