sport football
{ By Adam Shergold for MailOnline    Published:  11:07, 30 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/rugbyleague/article-7941997/Toronto-Wolfpack-set-make-giant-leap-elite-Super-League-fare.html }
History will be made this Sunday when the Toronto Wolfpack become the first ever North American club to play in the top flight of a British sports league. We've seen the NFL, NBA and MLB all played on these shores but only in one-off matches or mini-series - and the arrival of Toronto into Rugby League's elite division, the Super League is at a whole new level. Founded only four years ago, they began life in the third tier League 1 and have since earned two promotions to swiftly make it to the top level. They will play their first Super League fixture with a 'home' match against Castleford Tigers at Headingley in Leeds on Sunday afternoon as the new season gets underway. But the rise of this Trans-Atlantic club has proved controversial in some quarters and things are far from smooth sailing as they prepare to compete in the big time. Sportsmail has everything you need to know about the Wolfpack and how they could get on this season. What's the story so far? Impressive progress has been made since the day Eric Perez, the chairman of Canada Rugby League, announced his intention to enter a Toronto-based team into the British rugby league system, back in 2014. Encouraged by 7,000-strong crowds drawn to Canadian international fixtures in a sports mad city and the 170,000 people watching a Rugby League TV show in the country, Perez saw a market and an opportunity. Perez secured the financial backing of Australian mining millionaire David Argyle, and other businessmen and sponsors, to get the idea off the ground and assemble a competitive team. Their maiden season in League 1 was a stroll, with the Wolfpack winning all of their regular season games and five of seven in the play-offs to win promotion with a points difference of +921. They spent 2018 in the second-tier Championship, winning all but three of 23 regular season matches, before narrowly missing out on automatic promotion to the Super League on points difference. The Wolfpack were then defeated 4-2 on home turf by London Broncos in the Million Pound Game and so missed out on a place in the top division. However, they made absolutely no mistake last year, winning 26 of 27 games in the regular Championship season to top the table by 12 points. With a simplified play-off system now in place, they overcame Toulouse in the semi-final and then Featherstone Rovers 24-6 to win their place in Super League. So now it's the big time? Yes. The Super League is home to the big beasts of Northern hemisphere rugby league, including Leeds Rhinos, Wigan Warriors and the reigning champions St Helens. The Wolfpack certainly aren't the first team from outside England to play in the competition - Paris Saint-Germain were a short-lived French team who played in the league for two years in the 1990s. There was also a now defunct Welsh franchise, the Crusaders, who spent three seasons in the top-flight between 2009 and 2011. More successful are Catalans Dragons, the Perpignan-based club entered the league in 2006 and lifted the Challenge Cup at Wembley in 2018. They were afforded three years immunity from relegation when they entered Super League, even if they propped up the table as they did in their first season, but nothing like this has been given to the Wolfpack. Their coach, Brian McDermott, was critical of this as he previewed the season: 'Don't let Toronto come into the league just to see how they go and then maybe they go out of the league in a couple of years' time because it's unsustainable. 'You got to have Toronto in the league for a bigger picture. I believe they could change the face of rugby league in North America.' So Super League's horizons have now broadened to well beyond the south of France. How does this all work logistically? Forget facing the cream of rugby league talent, the Wolfpack's first opponent has been the Canadian climate. They play home matches at the 9,600-capacity Lamport Stadium in Toronto's Liberty Village district but the expectation of ice and snow means it won't see Super League action until April 18. Temperatures in Toronto are typically below freezing at this time of year with plenty of snowfall and icy wind chill, making even the stadium's artificial pitch unsuitable for hard-hitting contact sport of any kind. Originally, the team had planned to take their first few games 'on the road' to places like Barcelona and Dublin, but they will settle for Headingley in Leeds this Sunday and Warrington's ground for the St Helens game on February 29. Their first game actually in Canada will be against Hull FC on April 18. Sunday Castleford Tigers (H, Headingley) February 8 Salford Red Devils (A) February 13 Wigan Warriors (A) February 21 Warrington Wolves (A) February 29 St Helens (H, Warrington) March 5 Leeds Rhinos (A)  Accordingly, the team has based itself in Manchester for pre-season, using the state-of-the-art training facilities of Manchester City's Etihad Campus and also Manchester Metropolitan University. The club has always covered the airline and accommodation costs of all teams making the 6,800-mile round trip from England to Toronto and indeed their main shirt sponsor was Air Transat. They usually fly them out on Thursday for a Saturday match and fly them back on Sunday. Those bankrolling the Wolfpack will have to foot the bill for Super League clubs as well and this despite them not being eligible for a share of the league's broadcast revenue this season. As before, their fixtures will be arranged in block of two or three home followed by two of three away to ease the burden of Trans-Atlantic travel on the squad and their families. So once the Lamport Stadium is available, Hull, Wigan and St Helens will all visit in the space of a fortnight before the Wolfpack head on the road again. Will they play in the Challenge Cup? Toronto entered the Challenge Cup in their first season, losing to Salford in the fifth round, and their second, defeated heavily by Warrington Wolves. But they didn't enter last year after the Rugby Football League told them to pay a bond of £500,000 which was basically insurance for lost ticket sales should they reach the final at Wembley. The RFL had their fingers burned with an £800,000 shortfall when Catalans reached the 2018 final and failed to sell out their ticket allocation, losing them money. Given Toronto's relatively small support and the enormous distances involved in travelling over to London, the RFL feared a similar situation if they ever reached the showpiece. It led to the sad situation of Catalans not defending their title last year, while fellow French club Toulouse also withdrew. But Toronto will be back in the 2020 competition but will play all of their ties away from home due to the logistical issues of arranging ties in Canada at short notice. Who's the star attraction? That's an easy one. The name Sonny Bill Williams is going to dominate any coverage of Toronto and indeed quite a bit of Super League coverage in general this season. The New Zealand superstar has excelled in both League and Union during a stellar career that peaked with two All Blacks World Cup triumphs. This will be his third stint in Rugby League, having started his career in Australia's NRL in 2004, and though he is 34, the deal to sign him is worth £5million and he will be paid a £150,000 salary. Having been out of League for five years, Williams stressed he might be a bit rusty but it will be fascinating to see how he performs. It says much about logistics that he still hadn't actually visited Toronto when he spoke at their pre-season press briefing last week. 'It's not just a sporting mecca but it's the most multicultural city in the world. I'm really looking forward to experiencing that,' he said. The city itself seems excited. The Toronto Star newspaper declared Williams a 'one-man economic stimulus package' and the coup in signing him was likened to David Beckham coming to the Los Angeles Galaxy in 2007. There's no doubt Williams will sell tickets both here and in Canada this season. Is the squad competitive? Coach McDermott won the Super League three times as a player at Bradford Bulls and four times as a coach at Leeds, but he has done his utmost to downplay expectations as Toronto enter the big league. 'We find ourselves in the Super League probably a bit earlier than everybody, including ourselves, envisioned,' he admitted. McDermott's main concern is the wafer thing squad at his disposal. Toronto have 23 players on their roster, as opposed to 30 at other Super League clubs. 'We've got 23 men. That's the club. Bang,' he said last week. When injuries start to strike the squad, they're going to be seriously stretched, plus there will be the impact of fatigue from the constant travelling. The club doesn't have an academy so cannot draw on back-up players when the squad gets thin. A number of salary cap rules also benefit the more established clubs in the division.  Though the signing of Williams does not affect the £2.1m limit so much because of his designated 'Marquee Player' status, the British-based teams can add five young players to their ranks with minimal impact on their salary cap if they have been developed in their academy. Toronto don't have that luxury but they do have the ability to negotiate their own television and sponsorship deals within North America which could make up some of the shortfall. There are also talks over hosting Australia's national team in an exhibition game in October as a money-spinner. Having rampaged their way through the lower divisions, survival could well be their aim this season, or alternatively McDermott could simply be playing mind games. In a positive sign, they did defeat Castleford, their opponents this weekend, 16-10 in a pre-season friendly. But life in the Super League will be much tougher, even for a battle-hardened squad. Teams that come to Canada will be better prepared and more professional at the elite level regardless of the jet lag. An assault on the top five and the play-offs seems a tall order but time will tell. What's the controversy you mentioned? That concerns Argyle, who last year sacked himself as chairman and chief executive after making a racist remark to an opposition player following a Championship match in April. Congo-born Swinton Lions player Jose Kenga said he approached Argyle, who asked him: 'Do they allow black people in Swinton?' Angered, Kenga confronted Argyle, who laughed off his comment and handed back a drinks token. 'I have never felt so little in my life and can't believe that people can still have such a racist mind,' Kenga said on Twitter. Argyle was fined £7,500 by the RFL and was forced into a grovelling apology and to step down from his high-profile roles. He remains the main financial backer of the club. Indeed, he was central in what was a three-year pursuit of Williams and has a long-term vision for more rugby league expansion franchises in Canada and the United States. The next to play in Europe could well be the Ottawa team Perez is starting up having cut his ties with the Wolfpack. They enter the professional leagues in 2021.   
