sport football
{ By Jonathan Spencer For Mailonline   Published:  20:17, 29 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7944371/Gary-Neville-slams-Man-United-fans-attacking-Ed-Woodwards-house-warns-frustration-grow.html }
Gary Neville has slammed the Manchester United supporters who attacked Ed Woodward's £2million Cheshire mansion but has warned those at the club that the frustration could boil over even further if a director of football isn't appointed. A mob of around 20 balaclava-clad supporters - some who are understood to be members of United's notorious 'Men In Black' hooligan firm - launched an attack on Woodward's luxurious mansion near Knutsford, in which he lives with his wife, Isabelle, and his two young twin daughters.  The gang assembled outside the house and rang an intercom on his large gates at the entrance on Tuesday night. But when nobody answered inside the mansion, the mob decided to throw a red smoke bomb before launching a firework at the house.  The hooded gang also decided to spray red paint all over the large gates as they made their feelings known.  And speaking ahead of United's Carabao Cup tie with rivals Manchester City on Wednesday, the former Red Devils player admitted that unfortunately the situation at Old Trafford will 'get worse' as they are not seeing any 'movement' or 'action' from the hierarchy despite falling further into mediocrity. Neville told Sky Sports: 'People's families shouldn't be attacked through sport or through football. Ed Woodward doesn't deserve that and neither do his family.  'There are two separate issues here. The fans are absolutely disgusted with how the football side of the club has been run over the last two or three years. There still isn't a technical director or football director. How it's taken so long I don't know. The club should be moving that forwards. They still don't look slick in the transfer market. The team are obviously struggling.  'And essentially the fans are just not happy. It's simmering and it will boil soon. The reality of it is the first issue is something that can't be condoned but the second issue is something that's going to get worse.  'The fans are starting to bring it into the stadium. The fans are taking it to social media. They're taking it above the line and going to people's houses which isn't acceptable and should never happen.  'However there's a massive fanbase of Manchester United fans who are frustrated and are not going to accept what is happening at the club. And the reality is they are not seeing any movement, they're not seeing any action.' Neville - who played for the Red Devils between 1992 and 2011, winning eight Premier League titles, two Champions Leagues and three FA Cups - added that United's hierarchy are 'getting played all over Europe by better operators', which their fans should not accept.  'The same people who are running the club from a football point of view are still running the football club,' the 44-year-old added. 'I said a few years ago Manchester United need the best football operators at that football club and they haven't got them and they're getting played all over Europe by better operators, by smarter people and that is just unacceptable.  'It's not something that Manchester United fans should accept. But they're displaying their displeasure in a way which is over the top and should never happen.' 
