sport football
{ By Claudia Poposki For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:25, 30 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7945201/AFL-star-Jesse-Hogan-takes-time-away-football-battle-mental-health-issues.html }
Troubled Fremantle Dockers forward Jesse Hogan is taking a leave of absence from the club following mental health challenges - months after his horrific car crash. The club released a statement on Wednesday revealing the star would be stepping down temporarily. 'Jesse needs time away from the club so he can manage mental health challenges that he is dealing with and focus on his general wellbeing,' the club's general manager of football Peter Bell said. 'We believe it is the most appropriate course of action and, more importantly, it is what is best for Jesse's long-term health and wellbeing. 'We will continue to provide all the necessary and ongoing care and support Jesse requires, as we would do for any of our players.' The club requested privacy for Hogan and his family and said they would update fans on his progress.   In November 2019 the 24-year-old was involved in a car crash outside teammate Joel Hamling's home in the Perth suburb of Bicton.  'It was a bit strange actually … the car ended up on its side,' a resident told The West Australian.  'He might have been a bit shocked but he didn't appear injured. He managed to climb out. He didn't look that fazed (despite) obviously being in a pretty nasty accident.' A Dockers spokesperson told AFL.com.au Hogan was conscious while being taken to by ambulance to Fiona Stanley Hospital and was discharged after a 'brief period of observation'.  The crash occurred the day before Hogan was due to return to pre-season training.   Hogan spent the second half of the 2019 season on the sidelines recovering from surgery after he injured his right foot for the second time in 12 months.  He missed nine weeks of the 2017 season due to his battle with testicular cancer. He was diagnosed a month after he tragically lost his father to cancer.  The embattled star was back in the headlines when he was dropped by the Dockers for the 2019 season opener after he turned up to training in an unfit state to play and breaking the club's alcohol policy.   The club revealed at the time their star forward had made 'poor alcohol decisions' and was battling 'clinical anxiety'. Hogan isn't the first player to take time off the league due to mental health battles in recent times. St Kilda's four-time best and fairest winner Jack Stevens announced in February he would be taking an indefinite amount of leave from the sport due to his mental health. He returned midway through the 2019 season. Tom Boyd was 21 when he dominated the 2016 Grand Final as every bit the superstar his team traded captain Ryan Griffen for and handed a seven-year, $7 million contract.  But less than three years later on May 16 he quit the sport after years of struggle with mental illness that left him unable to sleep for months and ruined his form.   Alex Rance endured an internal struggle between his sport and religion before his shock retirement and split from his wife. The Richmond Tigers defender and five-time All-Australian stunned the football world in December when he announced he was retiring with immediate effect to focus on his 'family and faith'. Just days later it was revealed Rance, 30, had split from his wife Georgia - who he married in 2012 and is also a committed believer in the faith. For confidential support call the Lifeline 24-hour crisis support on 13 11 14 or Mensline 1300 789 978     2012: Drafted by Melbourne Demons aged 17.  2013: Plays in the Victorian Football League before being put on long-term injury list with chronic back injury.   2015: Debut game for Melbourne Demons. 2017: In April his father dies after long battle with cancer. Hogan is then suspended by AFL for two weeks for an off-the-ball hit. 2017: Weeks later Hogan makes headlines again after footage of him smoking a cigarette at the Hot Dub Wine Machine festival in Swan Valley, Perth, is shared to social media. 2017: Just a month later, in May, Hogan himself is diagnosed with testicular cancer. He undergoes surgery and is side-lined for almost two months during his recovery. 2017: Returns to the Demons side in July after surgery and recovery. 2017: Breaks his collarbone the very same month he returns to the side.  2017: Returns to Melbourne Football Club from his shoulder injury in August.   2018: Suffers foot injury in August during his last season with MFC. 2018: Moves to Fremantle Dockers Football Club after finishing 2018 season with MFC.  2019: Dropped from Fremantle Dockers first game of the season before video footage of him dancing in his underwear and a Santa suit emerged online.  2019: Undergoes surgery after he injured the navicular bone in his right foot for the second time within 12 months. 2019: Flips his car in a single vehicle crash outside a teammates house   
