{ By Adam Shergold for MailOnline    Published:  12:39, 29 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/sportsnews/article-7942649/Paul-Pogbas-super-agent-Mino-Raiola-bizarrely-gets-involved-Manchester-United-fans-attack.html }
Leading football agent Mino Raiola has strongly condemned the 'morons' who attacked Ed Woodward's house. The £2million Cheshire mansion owned by Manchester United's executive vice-chairman was targeted on Tuesday night by a group of furious fans, who launched fireworks and a smoke bomb. Protests against Woodward and his running of United have grown more vociferous in recent weeks but the attack by the 20-strong mob of balaclava-clad supporters has escalated things to a new level. Raiola, who is the agent of United midfielder Paul Pogba, voiced his opinion on the attack and said 'football is not that important in life.' He told The Athletic: 'If anyone has used me as a reason to create any anger towards Ed, they are totally in the wrong because my relationship with Ed is good, it is professional, and we don't always need to agree but that's normal. 'What happened last night is not normal. It is violence and I condemn any type of violence. These guys are morons and this is criminal behaviour. 'These people need to be locked up and re-educated. This cannot be part of sport. 'This is sport — S P O R T. This is not a question of life and death, it is EN-TER-TAIN-MENT. 'Do you think people attack the house of Brad Pitt if he makes a bad movie? Or does Quentin Tarantino get death threats because his film was not good? 'There is no reason or excuse, none whatsoever for this and Ed Woodward has my full support and solidarity.' Raiola's support for Woodward come after he declared a few weeks back that he will no longer deal with United. The super-agent was upset that he was blamed for the deal that took in-demand Norwegian striker Erling Braut Haaland to Borussia Dortmund instead of Old Trafford. Raiola was strongly critical of the United hierarchy and said they would ruin the career of any player who went there. He told Italian newspaper La Repubblica: 'Today I would no longer bring anyone there. They would also ruin [Diego] Maradona, Pele and [Paolo] Maldini.' The agent also blasted the current set-up at United as 'out of reality' and without 'a sports project' adding that Pogba would be better off back at Juventus. Police were standing guard outside Woodward's home near Knutsford on Wednesday following the attack in the early hours. Woodward lives in the property with his wife, Isabelle, and their young twin daughters though it is believed they were not home at the time of the incident and nobody was hurt.  Woodward has come under plenty of scrutiny, in particular from United's fanbase, as the club continue to struggle and fall even further away from the Premier League summit. During their recent Premier League defeat at home to Burnley and FA Cup victory against Tranmere, some United fans could be heard singing a song about Woodward and the Glazer family burning on a fire. 'Build a bonfire, build a bonfire, put the Glazers on the top, put Ed Woodward in the middle and burn the f***ing lot,' sang the United fans to the tune of the famous 19th century American folk song, Clementine. The gang assembled outside the house and rang an intercom on his large gates at the entrance on Tuesday night. But when nobody answered inside the mansion, the mob decided to throw a red smoke bomb before launching a firework at the house. The hooded gang - some of whom are understood to be members of a hooligan firm known as the 'Men In Black' due to their preference of dark clothing - also decided to spray red paint all over the large gates as they made their feelings known. Cheshire Police attended and were pictured at the house on Wednesday morning having launched an investigation.    
