sport football
{ By Cian Cheesbrough For Mailonline   Published:  11:37, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8032007/Pep-Guardiola-rules-lavish-Manchester-City-spending-summer-like-year-179m-spree.html }
Pep Guardiola says the rising cost of players means Manchester City's summer spending will much more hindered compared to his free-spending first season at the club. City were hit with a two-year ban from European competition by UEFA last week for alleged breaches of Financial Fair Play regulations.  When Guardiola first arrived at the club, City spent £179million on players such as Leroy Sane, John Stones and Ilkay Gundogan, but the Spaniard feels this summer will be a completely different story. Asked by Sky Sports News whether he thinks City's summer transfer window will be as busy as it was when he first joined the club, Guardiola said: 'I don't think so.  'I don't think so because today it is so difficult to change the players because they are so expensive and it is not easy.' City's chief executive Ferran Soriano says the allegations of financial wrongdoing that led to the UEFA ban are baseless and the club is expected to make an appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport in an attempt to overturn the ban. Despite the ban, Guardiola recently reaffirmed his commitment to the club, saying the only way he will leave is if he is sacked, even if they were forced to drop down to League Two as further punishment. Ilkay Gundogan (Borussia Dortmund, £21m) Nolito (Celta Vigo, £14m) Oleksandr Zinchenko (Ufa, £2m) Leroy Sane (Schalke, £42m) Marlos Moreno (Atletico Nacional, £4.5m) Geonimo Rulli (Deportivo Maldonado, £4m) John Stones (Everton, £47m) Pablo Marí (Gimnastic, £200,000) Claudio Bravo (Barcelona, £17m) Gabriel Jesus (Palmeiras, £27m) ANNUAL TOTAL: £178.7m 'The club must (also) be sustainable, I understand completely and in the situation that we are in we have to wait (not) anticipate. Our idea right now with the situation with Financial Fair Play (is) when we are going to appeal', the 49-year-old added. 'Right now we have to wait. So we are going to play these three months and when the season finishes we will see what the situation is. And with the club, together, we are going to decide what is best - not just for the next year, but for the next two, three, four years for the cub. City were hit with the sanction by European footballs governing body for allegedly 'overstating its sponsorship revenue in its accounts and in the break-even information submitted to UEFA between 2012 and 2016'. The ban has left also left City fearing that their current stars could force moves away due to the lure of European football, with stars such as Raheem Sterling linked with moves to giants Real Madrid or Barcelona. 
