sport football
{ By Daniel Matthews For The Daily Mail    Published:  21:20, 28 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/sportsnews/article-7939891/Outrage-Catalan-Dragons-sign-disgraced-Australia-star-Israel-Folau.html }
The Rugby Football League and Super League have been accused of betraying the sport's values and showing 'no moral courage' after Catalan Dragons signed disgraced former Australia star Israel Folau. Cross-code international Folau returned to the 13-man game yesterday, signing a one-year contract with the French club nine months after he was sacked by the Wallabies for claiming on social media that 'hell awaits' gay people. The move has sparked outrage across the rugby league community, even though the 30-year-old devout Christian will have his contract terminated if he expresses such controversial views again. Both the RFL and Super League said that, though they 'deplore' Folau's previous comments, they were powerless to stop the move. But the sport's 'toothless' governing bodies still came for criticism. 'I'm shocked and disappointed,' Halifax's openly gay player Keegan Hirst said on Twitter. 'It shows none of the bravery, camaraderie or integrity (the RFL) expects from its players, staff and fans.'  He added to ITV: 'It's showing no moral courage... our game champions itself on being a community game, being inclusive, or so it says, and all the work that people in the game do to push that forward has been completely undermined by Catalan and the RFL.' Folau was blocked from returning to the NRL, where he began his career. But the authorities here made the 'difficult decision' to register the 30-year-old as the 'moral responsibility' lay with individual clubs. 'There is a strong feeling that the decision to sign him lets down many people connected to our sport,' Super League chief Robert Elstone said. 'I made Catalans Dragons aware of those views.'  Wigan Warriors chairman Ian Lenagan admitted signing Folau did cross their mind. But they did not pursue the move. Instead, they announced their March 22 clash with Catalan will be 'Pride Day' in 'support (of) the LGBTQ+ community'. 'I'm a proud Christian, my beliefs are personal, my intention is not to hurt anyone and I will not be making further public comment about them,' Folau said following the move. Any remarks deemed offensive under existing RFL policies will see his contract terminated - and leave his new club facing a hefty fine. 'We do not believe that those views should be publicly expressed, especially by a high-profile sports person,' Dragons chairman Bernard Guasch said. 'We do not support or agree with Israel's previously expressed and controversial views which are based upon his sincerely held religious belief... and we are totally committed to our club and our sport being open and welcoming to everyone.'  Robbie de Santos of LGBT charity Stonewall told Sportsmail: 'High-profile sportspeople like Israel Folau can really influence how people feel about sport. His anti-LGBT comments have a hugely negative impact... they suggest that LGBT people are not welcome, safe or respected in sport.'  De Santos added: 'The strong reaction by many Rugby League fans shows just how much people value inclusion and want to play their part in ensuring rugby league is everyone's game.'  
