sport football
{ By Pa Reporter   Published:  12:10, 28 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/tennis/article-7938081/Novak-Djokovic-fights-backs-tears-Australian-Open-tribute-NBA-star-Kobe-Bryant.html }
An emotional Novak Djokovic paid tribute to Kobe Bryant as he continued his march through the Australian Open draw with a straight-sets victory over Milos Raonic in the quarter-finals. Djokovic was good friends with the basketball star, who was killed in a helicopter crash on Sunday, and came out for the match on Rod Laver Arena wearing a jacket bearing the initials KB, Bryant's numbers eight and 24 and a heart. Nick Kyrgios had spoken after his defeat by Rafael Nadal on Monday about being inspired by Bryant, and Djokovic certainly looked like a man on a mission in a 6-4, 6-3, 7-6 (1) victory. The defending champion broke down as he spoke about Bryant afterwards, saying: 'I don't know what we could say. It really caught us by surprise. 'He was one of the greatest athletes of all time, he inspired myself and many other people around the world. I had that fortune to have a personal relationship with him over the last 10 years. 'When I needed some advice and support, he was there for me. He was my mentor, my friend, it's just heartbreaking to see what has happened to him and his daughter. It's unbelievable.' The only real concern on court for the defending champion came in the third set when he began to experience problems with his contact lenses. Djokovic took a medical timeout and looked flustered as he continued to seek help from the trainers but that did not stop him finishing off the match in a tie-break. Speaking to ESPN, Djokovic said: 'When I was going through the injury with my elbow and struggling to mentally and emotionally handle all of these different things that were happening to me and dropping in the rankings and then having to work my way up, he was one of the people who was really there for me to give me some very valuable advice and guidelines to kind of believe and trust in myself, trust the process that I'll be back. 'I'm very grateful to him for being there for me, for being very supportive. I love Kobe, who doesn't? 'He's an amazing guy and one of the best basketball players and athletes of all-time.' Djokovic also trained with Ronaldo in his off-season, where he developed various skill sets. 'He was basically teaching me how to jump,' Djokovic said. 'He is considered as one of the greatest football, soccer players of all-time, obviously. 'What I love about that guy is his work ethic and his constant need to improve. He's such a professional. He's got at home all these recovery devices and things. 'He's always trying to find a way how to be best in the world and make a huge mark not just in his sport, but all sports. He's a beast, he's an unbelievable athlete. We trained together that day, and it was a great experience. 'To be surrounded with the people like Kobe and Cristiano is obviously a huge pleasure and honour for me. When I'm next to them, I turn into a student. I try to have my ears wide open and listen to what they have to say and ask questions. 'I'm not afraid to ask questions and they are not as well. I think that's a great way of exchanging some experiences and things that maybe you could use in your sport, in your life, in your career. It's just amazing to share those life stories with them.' Raonic had not lost a set all tournament, defeating Stefanos Tsitsipas and Marin Cilic in the last two rounds, but he took a 0-9 record against Djokovic into the contest and soon found his mighty serve under huge pressure. The Canadian frustrated Djokovic by saving eight break points but he finally took one to claim the first set. The second seed broke serve again in the fourth game of the second set and, although Raonic managed to hold through the third, the tie-break was one-way traffic. Djokovic now moves through to a last-four clash with his old rival Roger Federer, who saved seven match points to beat Tennys Sandgren earlier on Tuesday. Looking ahead to the meeting, Djokovic said: 'Obviously tremendous respect for Roger. He's been one of the all-time greats and definitely one of my two biggest rivals. The match-ups against Roger and Rafa have made me the player I am today. 'I hope to get to at least one match point. It was quite amazing what he has done on the court today. It's not the first time, that's why he is who he is. Let the better player win.'   
