{ By Phoebe Eckersley For Mailonline   Published:  09:00, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8031711/Rio-Carnival-bursts-colour-Brazilian-coastal-city.html }
Revellers and samba dancers took to the streets Brazil and paraded into the early hours for the first night of their annual carnival. Thousands of dancers from the country's samba schools flocked to the Sambadrome in Rio de Janeiro for day one of the five-day celebration to mark the start of lent. Women were pictured in glittering outfits, sparking g-strings and wearing outlandish head-dresses and intricate face art as they took part in the extravaganza.  Drummers from Dragoes da Real paraded through Sao Paolo while female performers paired killer heels with feather headdresses and wiggled their hips in the stadium.  Barroca da Zona Sul paid tribute to quilombola leader Teresa de Banguela during their opening performance. Spectators watched from the sidelines as the performers sang a song entitled 'Benguela… a Baroque Clama a Ti, Tereza', a reference to a woman who came from Angola and fought slavery in 18th century Brazil.   A striking float depicting late human rights activist Marielle Franco, who was assassinated in March 2018, was spotted holding a gag during the first night of the Carnival parade.  Members of multiple parades represent different parts of the annual extravaganza, while men and women partake in an array of fascinating dances and performances.  The party-goers headed to the Sambadrome where samba competitions between rival dance schools and parades are to take place.  The Rio Carnival typically starts a week before Ash Wednesday with parties beginning in December, despite being heavily influenced by European and African traditions today.   The first one was held in the 1640s in honour of the Greek wine gods and saw the Romans organise events to celebrate Saturnalia and Bacchus.  The Roman Catholic Church then established the basic traditions and the festival 'Entrudo' was introduced by the Portuguese.  In 1840, the first masquerade carnival took place and saw influence from Italy's carnivals - with revellers dancing to the polka and waltz. Samba was then incorporated in 1917.    While the masquerade aspect of the carnival is derived from Italy, African culture also influenced the Rio Carnival costumes which are made of feathers, grass and bones.     
