sport football
{ By Brett Lackey For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:11, 28 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7936665/Soccer-legends-Drogba-Yorke-Trezeguet-sign-play-bushfire-charity-match-Sydney.html }
More than a dozen international former soccer legends have signed up to play a charity soccer game in Australia in May to raise funds for bushfire recovery.  Didier Drogba, Dwight Yorke, David Trezeguet and Ji-Sung Park are among the star footballers confirmed for the special 'Football For Fires' match in Sydney in May.  The first release of soccer stars that have been confirmed for the charity event also includes Claudio Marchisio, Dario Simic, Mark Bosnich, Emile Heskey, and Pedro Mendes.  The exhibition game at ANZ Stadium on May 23, will also give fans a chance to say goodbye to retired Socceroos captain Mark Milligan.  Two teams of legendary footballers will be selected to play for either the Firefighters All Stars or the SES All Stars who will compete for the Football For Fires Cup.  All proceeds from the match will go toward the restoration and improvement of local football clubs and facilities in fire-affected areas nationwide.  Dwight Yorke, a former Manchester United star, was signed by Sydney FC as their marquee drawcard in 2005 on a million dollar a year contract.  Though he played for the team for just one season the striker helped Sydney FC win the inaugural A-League competition and helped establish the fledgling league.  Yorke's close friend and former teammate Mark Bosnich will also play in the upcoming charity game.  The controversial former Socceroos goalkeeper had stints with Aston Villa, Chelsea, and Manchester United before returning to Australia in 2008.  He will be joined by another former Socceroo legend John Aloisi in the 'Football for Fires' match.  Proceeds from tickets sales, merchandise, and corporate support from the charity game will go towards grassroots football facilities affected by bushfires on Australia's east coast during December and January.   
