{ By Tom Place For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:57, 28 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7935829/Israel-Folau-shock-return-rugby-league-French-Super-League-club-Catalan-Dragons.html }
Disgraced footballer Israel Folau could make a shock return in just weeks after fears he would never play professionally again following his highly-publicised sacking for homophobia.  The Catalan Dragons are understood to be frantically looking for a talented centre to fill their lineup before the English Super League begins on Thursday. After being rejected by South Sydney Rabbitohs player Bryson Goodwin and Cronulla Sharks' Josh Dugan, the Dragons have turned their attention to Folau, according to Nine News. The France-based team and Folau are even said to be close to agreeing on terms, according to Total Rugby League.  Super League chief executive Robert Elstone is understood to be in discussion with the team about the recruitment but has been unable to make a clear decision on the controversial star.  Folau was sacked by by Rugby Australia after he shared a 'warning' to 'drunks, homosexuals and adulterers' among others that they were going to hell.  He took them to court after losing his multi-million dollar contract and forced them into a humiliating backdown to avoid a lengthy court battle in which the sporting superstar was demanding $14 million. Folau was issued an apology after the parties reach a settlement but his career was still in a cloud.   He previously played in the National Rugby League and Australian Football League but bosses have also been reluctant to accept him back due to the publicity. But this is not the first time international competitions have been rumoured to have reached out to the Folau. In December, New York's new rugby league franchise in the US was in 'urgent' internal discussions to lure the dual international.  Folau was said to be training himself hard to get fit for a possible return to professional rugby league for the first time in nine years.  New York chief executive Ricky Wilby refused to comment but officials suggested the Big Apple could 'perfect place' for Folau to resurrect his career, the Daily Telegraph reported. Folau has continued to express his controversial opinions as he showed when he blamed the bushfire crisis on gay marriage and abortion during a sermon November.  'They've legalised same-sex marriage... Going against the laws that God says,' he said in footage posted to The Truth of Jesus Christ Church's Facebook page.  'Abortion - it's OK now to murder and kill infants, unborn children - and they deem that to be OK. 'Look how rapid these bushfires, these droughts, all these things they've come in a short period of time – you think it's a coincidence?' 
