{ By Press Association   Published:  14:39, 27 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/pa/article-7934469/Tributes-paid-extraordinary-inspirational-Kobe-Bryant.html }
The Los Angeles Lakers’ NBA game against city rivals the Clippers has been postponed as a mark of respect following the tragic death of Kobe Bryant and his daughter. Bryant, a five-time NBA champion who played for the Lakers throughout his 20-year career, died aged 41 in a helicopter crash in California on Sunday alongside his 13-year-old daughter Gianna and seven other people. The Lakers were set to meet the Clippers at Staples Center, but the fixture will now take place at a later date. The following has been released by the NBA pic.twitter.com/NgrEP2qpDi “The National Basketball Association game between the Los Angeles Lakers and the LA Clippers scheduled for Tuesday, Jan. 28 at Staples Center has been postponed,” a statement from the NBA read. “The decision was made out of respect for the Lakers organisation, which is deeply grieving the tragic loss of Lakers legend Kobe Bryant, his daughter Gianna and seven other people in a helicopter crash on Sunday. The Lakers made their first public comment since the tragedy with a brief statement on Monday. pic.twitter.com/Y2hNr1QXG0 It read: “In consultation with the NBA League office, the game scheduled between the Los Angeles Lakers and Los Angeles Clippers for Tuesday, January 28 will be postponed and scheduled for a future date. “The Los Angeles Lakers would like to thank all of you for the tremendous outpouring of support and condolences. This is a very difficult time for all of us. We continue to support the Bryant family and will share more information as it is available.” The news of Bryant’s death sparked an outpouring of grief around the world as tributes flooded in with Michael Jordan, arguably basketball’s most famous name, former United States president Barack Obama and personal friend and former England football captain David Beckham among those to pay their respects. Los Angeles Sheriff Alex Villanueva said nine people, including the pilot, had died in the crash but was awaiting the coroner’s report before confirming any identities as it would be “inappropriate” to do so. Thousands gathered in Los Angeles to pay tribute with a vigil outside the Staples Center, home of the shooting guard’s Lakers team. A shrine to Bryant – who became an Oscar winner in 2018 for Best Animated Short Film for ‘Dear Basketball’, which he wrote and narrated – has been set up outside the stadium, complete with candles, flowers and photographs from fans. The light towers surrounding Los Angeles International Airport were illuminated in purple and gold on Sunday, in homage to the colours of Bryant’s Lakers jersey. Los Angeles City Hall was similarly lit up in the famous purple. Lights for a legend.Los Angeles City Hall lit in purple and gold starting at 8:24 p.m. this evening in honor of Kobe Bryant’s storied championship career and in memory of Bryant, his daughter, Gianna, and all who perished in today’s tragedy. pic.twitter.com/1una7Aj98Z Basketball and sporting figures from around the world also paid tribute to a man, who was hailed as an “extraordinary” athlete, devoted father and an inspiration to millions of people. NBA commissioner Adam Silver said the organisation was “devastated” by the news. “For 20 seasons, Kobe showed us what is possible when remarkable talent blends with an absolute devotion to winning,” he said in a statement. “He was one of the most extraordinary players in the history of our game with accomplishments that are legendary: five NBA championships, an NBA MVP award, 18 NBA All-Star selections, and two Olympic gold medals. Laker Nation, the game of basketball & our city, will never be the same without Kobe. Cookie & I are praying for Vanessa, his beautiful daughters Natalia, Bianka & Capri, as well as his parents Joe & Pam & his sisters. We will always be here for the Bryant family. pic.twitter.com/WWxmtEAJqZ “But he will be remembered most for inspiring people around the world to pick up a basketball and compete to the very best of their ability. He was generous with the wisdom he acquired and saw it as his mission to share it with future generations of players, taking special delight in passing down his love of the game to Gianna.” Beckham, who played for the LA Galaxy from 2007-12 and was a friend of Bryant’s, paid his own personal tribute. Writing on his Instagram page, Beckham said: “It’s taken me hours to work out what to write and still my words won’t ever be enough to describe how I am feeling after the tragic loss of Kobe. “This was one special athlete, husband, father and friend. Having to write these words is hard enough but also knowing we have lost an amazing human being and his beautiful and talented daughter Gianna is heartbreaking. “The commitment Kobe showed to his sport was inspiring, to go through the pain and to finish a game off like only he could inspired me to try to be better. “He was determined to inspire the next generation of boys and girls to embrace the sport that he loved. His legacy will live on.” Bryant, who was married to wife Vanessa and had three other daughters, Natalia, Bianca and Capri, became an 18-time NBA All-Star during a career that saw him transcend the sport. He was named the NBA’s Most Valuable Player in 2008 and is the fourth highest scorer in the history of the NBA with 33,643 points, pushed down the list by current Laker LeBron James as recently as Saturday night. People gather at a memorial for Kobe Bryant near Staples Center (Ringo H.W. Chiu/AP) The Lakers retired both of Bryant’s shirt numbers – eight and 24 – in a ceremony in December 2017, when then franchise president Earvin ‘Magic’ Johnson said: “We’re here to celebrate the greatest who has ever worn the purple and gold.” Alongside Shaquille O’Neal, Bryant helped the Lakers win three NBA championships in a row between 2000 and 2002. It is a feat that has not been matched since, with the Golden State Warriors losing in last year’s finals having won two in a row.  Bryant won further NBA titles in 2009 and 2010. Jordan, arguably the most famous basketball player of all time, described Bryant as like his “little brother”. He said in a statement released by his spokeswoman on Twitter: “I am in shock over the tragic news of Kobe’s and Gianna’s passing. Words can’t describe the pain I’m feeling. “I loved Kobe – he was like a little brother to me. We used to talk often, and I will miss those conversations very much. Kobe was a legend on the court and just getting started in what would have been just as meaningful a second act. To lose Gianna is even more heartbreaking to us as parents. Michelle and I send love and prayers to Vanessa and the entire Bryant family on an unthinkable day. “He was a fierce competitor, one of the greats of the game and a creative force. Kobe was also an amazing dad who loved his family deeply – and took great pride in his daughter’s love for the game of basketball.” Obama sent love to the Bryant family following their loss. He tweeted: “Kobe was a legend on the court and just getting started in what would have been just as meaningful a second act. To lose Gianna is even more heartbreaking to us as parents. Michelle and I send love and prayers to Vanessa and the entire Bryant family on an unthinkable day.” 
