sport football
{ By Chris Sutton for the Daily Mail   Published:  22:33, 26 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7931871/CHRIS-SUTTON-Steve-Bruce-not-Rafa-Benitez-Newcastle-fans-stop-doom-gloom.html }
People from the North East live and breathe football. Walk around Newcastle city centre on any given day, and you'll see black and white stripes aplenty. Sunderland, and you'll see red and white. There was a chance I could have joined Newcastle back in 1994 when I went to Blackburn. I won the Premier League in my first season at Ewood Park, so can have no regrets, but I know what football means to fans up there. So I get it when they speak so passionately about their club. They are desperate to see their teams succeed. But this weekend I heard some unnecessary and bizarre criticism from followers of Newcastle. On Saturday night, one fan called into BBC Radio 5 Live's 606 and tried to have a pop at Mike Ashley for selling £1 tickets to Under 12s. Apparently, the naff performance against Oxford meant those kids who were at St James' Park for the first time wouldn't want to go again.  Ashley has made a lot of mistakes as owner of that club, and not delivered on certain promises, but we cannot kick him for that initiative. The FA Cup needs more of that. But then there were the usual callers having a go at Steve Bruce. A 0-0 draw against a League One club — and a replay that disrupts their winter break — is not what he wanted. But even if the performance was below par, I applaud him for playing a strong team. They remain in with a shot of reaching the fifth round for the first time since 2006 and are 14th in the Premier League, with 30 points from 24 games. So it is not all doom and gloom. At the same stage last season, Rafa Benitez rang the changes and Newcastle were dumped out 2-0 in the fourth round by Watford at home. They were also 14th but only had 24 points by comparison. Bruce may not be Benitez but he has exceeded the expectations of the majority of supporters. He is doing a steady job and does not deserve to have negativity levelled at him on a weekly basis. They may have to do it via a replay, but I reckon we will see Newcastle in the fifth round proper for the first time since Alan Shearer was playing. This weekend saw reports circulate about Ashley selling up to the tune of £340m to an interested party from Saudi Arabia. Him leaving the club would undoubtedly lift the mood, though Newcastle's fans will be cautious after having their take-over hopes dashed in the past. In the meantime, Bruce will want his players to concentrate on what is a very big game against Norwich at St James' Park this Saturday. Last season, Kelechi Iheanacho scored two goals in 35 games, and it looked like his time was up at Leicester.  But Brendan Rodgers kept him in case Jamie Vardy got injured. Iheanacho is repaying that trust with seven goals in 12 games this season, scoring the winner at Brentford.  He is beginning to look worth his £25million fee. Millwall love to beat a Premier League club in the FA Cup. In the last few years alone, they have beaten Everton, Bournemouth, Watford and Leicester. So I was staggered by their selection on Saturday.  Five changes, with top scorers Tom Bradshaw and Jed Wallace on the bench. Millwall are eighth in the Championship.  Why not got for it against Chris Wilder's Sheffield United? They missed a big opportunity for another Cup run. West Ham lost to a team of West Brom reserves and a Championship side who fielded two players over 35 years old and finished the game with 10 men.  It is difficult to know who to blame. Some fans point the finger at the owners, others at David Moyes, others at the efforts of the players. You'll struggle to find a happy Hammer out there right now.  There is a toxic atmosphere around the place and their next four Premier League fixtures read: Liverpool at home, Brighton at home, Manchester City away, then Liverpool away.  Joe Cole said on BT Sport on Saturday that he has seen too many players go to West Ham and 'have a holiday'. Their training ground is not the best, everyone knows the problems with the London Stadium, and Moyes has not got the backroom staff he wants in place. He is up against it. I've heard the arguments about how Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is getting criticised while Frank Lampard is getting off scot-free. But there is a difference.  Chelsea lost Eden Hazard and were working under a transfer embargo. They are currently fourth, have reached the Champions League knockout stage and are through to the FA Cup's last 16.  Can they do better? Yes, because they have lost too many games this season. But they are in a healthy position under Lampard. The winners of the men's FA Cup get £3.6million. The winners of the women's equivalent get £25,000.  The men who reached the fifth round this weekend will receive £180,000. The women, £2,000.  That is an extraordinary difference. Nobody is saying there should be parity, because we all know these are two very different commercial entities, but that imbalance is obscene. 
