sport football
{ By Nathan Salt For Mailonline   Published:  20:26, 26 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/sportsnews/article-7931995/Sterling-Lineker-lead-tributes-Kobe-Bryant-basketball-icon-killed-helicopter-crash.html }
Raheem Sterling and Marcus Rashford led the tributes after it was confirmed that basketball legend Kobe Bryant was killed in a helicopter crash on Sunday.  The former Los Angeles Lakers star was confirmed as one of the people on board in the crash which occurred in Calabasas, California. Manchester City forward Sterling tweeted, 'Rest easy legend', along with a photo of the 41-year-old in his prime playing years.  Manchester United striker Rashford added: 'A true inspiration in the sporting industry. RIP legend.'  Gareth Bale and Mohamed Salah were among other prominent footballers to pay their respects as the world of sport came to terms with the devastating crash.   Former England striker and now prominent television host Lineker added: 'Oh no. How awful. One of the greatest sportsmen of our lifetime. Utterly tragic.' New England Patriots quarterback and American football legend Tom Brady posted a message alongside two heart emojis and two prayer hands. He wrote: 'We miss you already Kobe.'  Jamaican sprinting superstar Usain Bolt simply put that he 'still can't believe' the news as he shared a photo of himself and Bryant on track at the London 2012 Olympic Games.   The 41-year-old former Los Angeles Lakers basketball star's death was confirmed by TMZ. The outlet reported that Bryant was traveling with four other people - including 13-year-old daughter Gianna - in his private helicopter when it crashed, killing everyone on board.  Officials with the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department responded to reports of the crash near Las Virgenes Rd and Willow Glen St in Calabasas at around 10am after a fire broke out.   The cause of the crash is under investigation. Witnesses reported hearing the helicopter's engine sputtering before it went down.  Bryant established himself as one of the most transcendent sportsman in his generation and quickly became universally adored across the globe.  Paris Saint-Germain, Inter, AC Milan and a host of other top European football teams were quick to offer their condolences after the news broke on Sunday evening. Italian giants Inter Milan wrote: 'You were a constant inspiration to anyone who’s ever loved any sport. Losing you leaves an immense hole in our lives.  'You rose above the boundaries of countries, nations and sports. Your teachings will live with us forever. R.I.P. Kobe Bryant.' Bayern Munich defender Jerome Boateng, a keen basketball fan, was stunned by the news, writing: 'No this can‘t be true. R.I.P. King - we will miss you all! Prayers are with the family.'   Former Italy midfielder Andrea Pirlo shared his message alongside a photo of himself and Bryant from a television advert.  Pirlo wrote: 'You've been an example for our generation. RIP Legend.'  Premier League players from a host of clubs were quick to echo the sentiments of their peers as Everton's Theo Walcott and Watford's Gerard Deulofeu reacted to the news.  Walcott wrote: 'RIP Kobe. A true icon and legend of sport.' Deulofeu added: 'Can’t believe that.. Prayers for the family. BIG BIG LEGEND.' With a full schedule of matches taking place in the National Basketball Association just hours after the news broke, teams put together plans to honour one of the game's greatest of all time.   The Houston Rockets and Denver Nuggets held a minute's silence before their meeting and other teams will carry out similar gestures.   Bryant's death came one day after he was passed by Lakers forward LeBron James for third place on the NBA's all-time scoring list.   The unseated star congratulated James on Twitter during the Lakers' 108-91 loss to the Philadelphia 76ers on Saturday night in what would prove to be his final tweet. James had written 'Mamba 4 Life' and '8/24 KB' on his sneakers in gold ink before the game to show respect for Bryant.  Bryant had a glittering career representing the Lakers between 1996 to 2016 and he finished his NBA career as a five-time NBA Champion, two-time NBA Finals MVP, one-time NBA MVP and 18-time NBA All-Star.   
