sport football
{ By Jack Newman For Mailonline   Published:  09:51, 25 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7924589/Tammy-Abrahams-injury-opens-door-Michy-Batshuayi-finally-make-mark-Chelsea.html }
For a player self-styled as the Batsman, Michy Batshuayi has played the part of the joker more readily during his time at Chelsea. The striker, now 26, has been constrained to the periphery of the first team at Stamford Bridge, and has endeared himself to fans more with his social media antics than his consistency on the pitch. But after Tammy Abraham limped off on Tuesday against Arsenal, Frank Lampard's threadbare strikeforce was laid bare. The extent of Abraham's injury has not yet been confirmed but it is likely to leave Chelsea short of firepower as they run into a crucial run of games.  The Blues are facing Leicester City, Manchester United and Tottenham in the coming weeks, along with the small matter of Bayern Munich in the Champions League, potentially without their main goals threat. The injury has even fuelled transfer speculation linking Chelsea with a number of strikers this window. But the club's injury misfortune could be Batshuayi's opportunity as he looks to finally cement his place at the forefront of Lampard's plans. Chelsea league appearances: 46 Starts: 4 Minutes: 732 Goals: 8 Assists: 3 Minutes per goal: 92 Shot conversion rate: 18.6 per cent  Making 14 appearances from the bench this season, the 26-year-old is ahead of Olivier Giroud in the pecking order and is likely to plug the hole vacated by Abraham, should Roman Abramovich decide not to splash the cash. The Belgian's record at Chelsea appears poor on the surface, scoring just eight league goals since signing from Marseille for £33million in 2016. He has made 46 appearances in the Premier League for Chelsea during that time, but 42 of them have come from the bench. The striker's average of a goal every 92 minutes is remarkable considering his lack of regular game time, trumping Sergio Aguero's 106 minutes per goal. Meanwhile Chelsea's main weapon Abraham, who has notched up 13 league goals this season, scores on average every 142 minutes. The two strikers also have a similar shot conversion rate, with Batshuayi's at 18.6 per cent during his time at Chelsea, and Abraham's at 18.1 per cent this season. But even though the pair have similar statistics, it is clear Lampard favours Abraham, maybe because he embodies the team the manager wants to construct with young English players the focal point.  Another criticism of Batshuayi is that he fails to impact big games. But it should be noted that his most memorable goal was the title-clinching winner against West Brom in 2017 after he came on as a second-half substitute with the score at 0-0.  He also scored the only goal as Chelsea beat last season's Champions League semi finalists Ajax in the group stage in October, a vital win which helped secure the Blues' progression to the knockout rounds.  But despite Batshuayi's impressive strike rate and important goals, he has never been trusted to lead the line by successive managers during his time in west London.  He even amassed more minutes on the pitch during his short spell at Crystal Palace than he has during his whole time at Chelsea. But his love for the club has not diminished, saying: 'I have never been a fully-fledged starter, but Chelsea is my club, that's where I feel at home. It's a club I love deeply.' Borussia Dortmund appearances: 10 Starts: 9 Goals: 7 Valencia appearances: 15 Starts: 4 Goals: 1 Crystal Palace appearances: 11 Starts: 9 Goals: 5 Perhaps he is best utilised as an impact substitute, and the form of Abraham this season has made it impossible to leave the Englishman off the team sheet. When given a start in cup competitions he has seized his chance this season, scoring three in the Carabao Cup, including one against Manchester United. And in the FA Cup, he netted a hat-trick against Nottingham Forest in the third round when deputising for Abraham.  During the course of his three-and-a-half years at Chelsea, Batshuayi has been loaned out three times, with varying success, first to Borussia Dortmund, then Valencia and Crystal Palace.  The striker impressed in Germany, scoring seven and assisting one in 10 appearances, but he struggled in Spain, scoring just once in 15 appearances for Valencia. His loan to the Mestalla was cut short and he was then shipped to Crystal Palace where he fared better, scoring five in 11 appearances, averaging a goal every 151 minutes. Batshuayi's international record is impressive too, scoring 16 in 29 appearances for Belgium.  Perhaps he is viewed as more of a poacher, with Abraham's hold-up play more vital with Chelsea opting for a lone striker.  In spite of his limited game time, he has remained a popular figure in the Chelsea dressing room despite his moves and he has endeared himself to fans, documenting his japes on social media. The Belgium international regularly jokes with supporters and pokes fun at his team-mates on Twitter and shares snippets of his life on Instagram, posing with supercars and going on luxury holidays. A player's social media activity does not indicate any lack of dedication to the sport, even though it has been used as a stick to beat Manchester United's under-fire Jesse Lingard and Paul Pogba. But it is noticeable how Batshuayi's social media posts have dried up this season, perhaps as he tries to straighten his image off the field. He has not composed a tweet since before Christmas and his Instagram feed is now full of photos of training and meet-and-greets with fans. Batshuayi reflected earlier this season on a troublesome youth when he was emerging onto the scene, but feels he has worked on his game and matured.  'When I was young, it's true that I had some problems of discipline,' he added.  'But what young person doesn't? Today, I'm 26 years old, I can channel myself and I work at training and in the game.' He said he still retains an edge to his performances, insisting he will knuckle down and focus when the game is on a knife edge, but isn't afraid of showcasing his talents and 'being cool' when his team are cruising.  'I'm playful, but I choose my moments: at 0-0 I'm going to be serious, at 2 or 3-0 I'm going to play it up. Being cool is part of my personality.' Scoring from the bench and when given a chance in cup games has clearly not convinced Lampard to give Batshuayi an extended run in the team, but now he might not have a choice.  If he does have a renewed focus on his football, he will rarely have a better chance to seize an opportunity than Abraham's absence.  
