{ By David Coverdale For The Daily Mail   Published:  22:30, 24 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/sportsnews/article-7926525/Paralympics-placed-governments-list-crown-jewels-sporting-events.html }
The Paralympics has been added to the 'crown jewels' list of sports events which must be broadcast live on free-to-air TV - but cricket has been controversially overlooked. For the first time in more than 20 years, the government has updated the protected list to put the summer and winter Paralympics on a par with the Olympics. The women's football World Cup, European Championship and FA Cup final are also set to be elevated onto the crown jewels, joining their men's equivalents, with a final decision expected 'imminently'. However, the government has shut the door on the possibility of any England cricket matches being upgraded to the mandatory terrestrial TV list, or even the men's Cricket World Cup final. That is despite the success of last summer, when 4.5 million people watched England's dramatic super-over win against New Zealand on Channel 4 after Sky Sports voluntarily shared their exclusive rights. The news, though, will be welcomed by the ECB, who insist English cricket needs Sky's money to grow the game. Explaining the decision, the government's sports minister Nigel Adams told Sportsmail: 'The cricketing authorities rightly have to monetise their sport. 'If you look at what Ashley Giles, England's director of cricket said, without that money coming through from the broadcasters, they wouldn't have been able to achieve the success they had in terms of winning the World Cup. 'It's a balance, it's a difficult one, it's a long debate around cricket. But their ability to commercialise their broadcasting rights has developed the game enormously and I think we have to be mindful of that.' The 'Group A' crown jewels list also includes the Wimbledon tennis finals, the rugby union World Cup final, rugby league's Challenge Cup final, the Grand National and the Derby. Home England cricket Test matches were taken off the list in 1998 following lobbying by the ECB. They were instead added to a new 'Group B' list of events where highlights must be shown on free-to-air TV. That list also includes the Cricket World Cup semi-finals and final, and matches involving home nations. The government announced a consultation on the crown jewels last July following allegations that the list unfairly discriminated against disability and women's sports.  As well as major women's football games, the women's rugby union World Cup final and women's rugby league Challenge Cup final are also set to be added to 'Group A'.  
