sport football
{ By James Dutton For Mailonline   Published:  22:19, 24 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/olympics/article-7900257/Six-months-Tokyo-2020-Olympic-venues-shaping-up.html }
The Greatest Show on Earth is just six months away and Tokyo is gearing up to host the 32nd Summer Olympic Games. Anticipation for the showpiece that is Tokyo 2020 has been rife ever since Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe dressed up as that famous Italian plumber Mario in the handover segment of the Closing Ceremony in Rio four years ago. While previous Games have been beset by delays and infrastructural nightmares, most notably Athens in 2004, progress has been, comparatively, smooth sailing. Here Sportsmail take a look at venues that will become very familiar to us all when the Olympic cauldron is lit on July 24. Heritage Zone and Tokyo Bay Zone The venue plan for this summer's Games consists predominantly of two thematic zones. The Heritage Zone houses several iconic venues that were used at the Tokyo Games in 1964 to further sustain the legacy of that year's Olympics.  The Tokyo Bay Zone serves as a model for the innovative urban development that is meant to symbolise the exciting future of Japan's capital city. The zones extend across the city to form an infinity symbol, with the Athletes' Village located at the point where the two zones intersect. The infinity zone has been used to embody 'the boundless passion, commitment and inspiration of the world's elite athletes, the limitless potential of future generations, and the lasting legacy that will be passed on to the people of Tokyo, Japan and the world', according to the Tokyo Organising Committee. New National Stadium The biggest headache for organisers came in the shape of, or perhaps more accurately, design of, the centrepiece of the fortnight.  The intention from an early stage was to remodel the National Stadium in Tokyo, which had been the site of the 1964 Olympics, the last time the city had hosted the Games. In February 2012 a £700million renovation was announced, with the design up for bidding.  July 24: Opening Ceremony July 25 - August 6: Swimming July 25 - August 2: Tennis  July 31 - August 9: Athletics  August 3-9: Track Cycling  August 8: Football final August 9: Closing Ceremony The winning proposal faced enormous criticism over its design, compared rather unfavourably to a bicycle helmet.  As costs spiralled to nearly £1.8billion the Zaha Hadid design was scrapped entirely.  The new design, by Japanese architect Kengo Kuma, has been inspired by traditional temples and has a much more conventional look.  They had wanted the stadium to be ready in time for last year's Rugby World Cup, but that proved impossible due to the change in plans.  The cost, though, has still been projected at a staggering £1b, with the capacity at 68,000, which can increase to 80,000 for football matches. Both the opening and closing ceremonies will be held here, along with athletics events and football matches. After the Games it will continue to be used for sporting and cultural events. 1. Olympic Stadium - Opening and closing ceremonies, athletics, football 2. Tokoyo Metropolitan Gymnasium - Table tennis 3. Yoyogi National Stadium - Handball 4. Nippon Budokan - Judo, Karate 5. Tokyo International Forum - Weightlifting 6. Kokugikan Arena - Boxing 7. Equestrian Park - Dressage, Eventing, Jumping 8. Musashino Forest Sport Plaza - Badminton, Modern Pentathlon (Fencing) 9. Tokyo Stadium - Football, Rugby, Modern Pentathlon (Swimming, Fencing, Riding, Laser-Run) 10. Musashinonomori Park - Cycling (Road Race) 11. Ariake Arena - Volleyball 12. Ariake Gymnastics Centre - Gymnastics 13. Ariake Urban Sports Park - Cycling (BMX Freestyle, BMX racing), Skateboarding 14. Ariake Tennis Park - Tennis 15. Odaiba Marine Park - Aquatics (Marathon Swiming), Triathlon 16. Shiokaze Park - Beach Volleyball 17. Aomi Urban Sports Park - Basketball, Sport Climbing 18. Oi Hockey Stadium - Hockey 19. Sea Forest Cross-Country Course - Equestrian (Eventing) 20. Sea Forest Waterway - Canoe (Sprint), Rowing  21. Kasai Canoe Slalom Centre - Caneo (Slalom)  22. Yumenoshima Park Archery Field - Archery 23. Tokyo Aquatics Centre - Swimming, Diving, Artistic Swimming 24. Tatsumi Water Polo Centre - Water Polo 25. Sapporo Odori Park - Athletics (Marathon/ Race Walk) 26. Makuhari Messe Hall A - Taekwondo, Wrestling 27. Makuhari Messe Hall B - Fencing 28. Tsurigaski Surfing Beach - Surfing 29. Saitama Super Arena - Basketball 30. Asaka Shooting Range - Shooting 31. Kasumigaseki Country Club - Golf 32. Enoshima Yacht Harbour - Sailing 33. Izu Velodrome - Track Cycling 34. Izu MTB Course - Mountain Biking 35. Fuji International Speedway - Cycling (Road Race) 36. Fukushima Azuma Baseball Stadium - Baseball 37. Yokohama Baseball Stadium - Baseball  38. Sapporo Dome - Football 39. Miyagi Stadium - Football 40. Ibaraki Kashima Stadium - Football 41. Saitama Stadium - Football 42. International Stadium Yokohama - Football Yoyogi National Stadium Another survivor from the 1964 Games, this venue was originally constructed to stage aquatics and basketball. This year it will be the stage for handball, while in the Paralympics it will be home to both badminton and wheelchair rugby. The arena is famous for its suspension roof design and will surely become a regular sight during coverage this summer. It holds 13,291 people inside.  Musashino Forest Sport Plaza A brand new build for the 2020 Games, intended to host badminton and fencing over the fortnight. It was the first new venue completed for the Olympics and opened in November 2017. Construction took three and a half years and cost over £230million. It is located just a stone's throw from Tokyo Stadium in the Heritage Zone.  Tokyo Stadium  A multi-purpose 50,000-seater stadium that opened in 2001 and hosted eight games during last year's Rugby World Cup, including the opening match between Japan and Russia and the bronze final between New Zealand and Wales. It is the home of J-League club FC Tokyo and J2's Tokyo Verdy. It will host both rugby sevens and football at the Games.  Tokyo Aquatics Centre Construction on the home of swimming at the 2020 Games is expected to conclude at the end of February with a grand opening set for March 22. It's located in the Tatsumi-no-Mori Seaside Park. It will be the final permanent venue to be completed for the summer, at an expected cost of £403m. It features a 15,000 capacity with a 50m pool and a moveable wall that ensures it can be converted into two 25m pools. Artistic swimming and diving will also take place at the venue, which is due to host a test event in the middle of April. After the Games it will continue to function as a site for international and national swimming events.   Ariake Gymnastics Centre  Built on an area previously used primarily for timber storage, the Ariake Gymnastics Centre will hold 12,000 people. It was originally planned to be just a temporary structure, but they aim to keep it in place for 10 years to improve the Games' legacy. It's located in the northern part of Tokyo's Ariake district and will, unsurprisingly, host all gymnastics events. The design of the building is aimed at showcasing traditional Japanese craftsmanship, with timber used for the roof frames, the main auditorium and the building's exterior.  Ariake Arena Officially completed last month, the Ariake Arena will host volleyball and then wheelchair basketball at the Paralympic Games. It is one of a number of projects constructed in Koto, the Tokyo Bay Area of the city. It is a sleek, modern, state of the art building holding up to 12,000 spectators. Ariake Arena cost roughly £245m and is one of its permanent venues that following the Games is intended to become a new sporting and cultural centre. There are plans to hold a test event between April 21 and 26.  Ariake Tennis Park Andy Murray will be attempting to make history with a third successive Olympic gold medal this year - injury permitting of course - and  the rich Ariake Tennis Park is where he will be based. The park is widely known as the home of tennis in Japan, surrounded by verdant greenery and housing 48 outdoor tennis courts, including its centrepiece - the Ariake Coliseum. It has a capacity of 10,000 and is one of the few professional tennis venues to benefit from a retractable roof - like Wimbledon's Centre Court.   Kasai Canoe Slalom Centre  The first manmade course in Japan has been newly constructed for the Games and plays host to the slalom canoe. The course is 200 metres in length and holds temporary seating for up to 7,500 fans. The venue is already up and running having hosted the NHK Cup Canoe Slalom and a test event in successive October weekends. The £50.3m centre will remain in use after the Games for watersports and rafting for the general public. It is situated close to the Kasai Rinkai Park, an amusement park which brings in three million annually, which can only boost the centre's profile for future years.  Tatsumi Water Polo Centre Water polo gets its own venue for the 2020 Games at the Tokyo Tatsumi International Swimming Center. The venue has hosted several Japanese swimming competitions since it opened in August 1993. The building is one of the more original designs you will find this summer, with it's half arching, half dome ceilings and large glass windows. It is built largely of steel-reinforced concrete, except for the roof which is a pipe space-truss structure. It will hold 4,700 people during the fortnight, but its future beyond is unclear. Reports surfaced last year that it could be turned into an ice rink, due to the building of the new Olympic Aquatics Centre.  Saitama Super Arena Basketball is one of the most popular sports at the Olympics, and the 36,500-seater capacity Saitama Super Arena will play host this summer. The facility is one of Japan's largest multipurpose venues since opening back in September 2000. It possesses a movable section of seating which will reduce capacity to 21,000 at the Games, but at its maximum it is the fourth largest indoor arena in the world. The venue is most famous for hosting Japanese professional wrestling and MMA. It even once housed the John Lennon Museum, which displayed memorabilia relating to the former Beatle, before closing in 2010.  Izu Velodrome  Team GB has enjoyed unparalleled success in track cycling over the last 12 years, so expect to see the Union Jack raised aloft countless times here. This indoor venue located in Izu City houses a 250m wooden cycling track - the first to be built in Japan. Established in 2011 it has hosted a number of major domestic cycling competitions and has served as a national training centre. The dome-shaped building could become one of the iconic sights of the Games, with the unmistakable snow-capped Mount Fuji sat on the horizon.  
