{ By Oli Gamp For Mailonline   Published:  09:22, 24 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7924325/Jurgen-Klopp-reveals-DIDNT-KNOW-Liverpool-16-points-clear-isnt-feeling-pressure.html }
Liverpool have won so many games recently that manager Jurgen Klopp had to be reminded how many points clear the team were at the top of the table. The Reds went 16 points clear at the summit of the Premier League as they chase their first title in 30 years, and also made it 40 games without defeat as they nicked a 2-1 win at Wolves late on. Jordan Henderson opened the scoring for the league leaders, and Roberto Firmino struck late to secure a vital three points after Raul Jimenez levelled.  Klopp's men look to be cruising to that elusive Premier League crown having won every game bar one this season - a draw against Manchester United - but despite the title looking like a formality, the German has shrugged off any notion of pressure. He added that a hectic fixture schedule had meant he had lost track of the team's advantage at the summit, insisting he hadn't given it thought.  'When was the pressure higher on us, this year or last year? Human beings are like this. I don't think about it,' he said after the game.  'I had to ask exactly how many points clear we are, that's the truth.  'I really forgot it in the week, with the number of games, I didn't think about it.' The win at Molineux came at a cost as Sadio Mane went down injured, but Klopp said losing one of his key players was the only problem he was concerned about, rather than maintaining their position at the top. 'I know we play Sunday against Shrewsbury and Wednesday West Ham and I know we play Saturday. That's three games in seven days, that's a lot. 'I know we lost Sadio Mane [to a hamstring injury], that's what I think about, that's the pressure I have. All the rest is not pressure. 'We want to win football games and when I arrived here a few years ago we wanted to win football games.  'That's the pressure [and] yes, I feel that. Apart from that, nothing, it's just football.' The Reds' incredible start to the season has seen them rack up so many points that they could lose six games in a row and still top the table - a statistic that didn't sit well with Klopp when informed after the game.   'You can lose six games, I could vomit when I hear that!,' Klopp told BT Sport. 'It is over when it is over, not before.' Liverpool looked in trouble when Jimenez equalised early on in the second half, but the team did what champions do - they find a way.  Klopp said he was delighted to see the players' reaction to going behind and admitted he was blown away by their desire to find another late winner.  'We don't go for perfection, we go for a perfect reaction if possible, that's what we try to do, that we really fight back in difficult situations in the game.  'That's what the boys did again and so, we won the game, which is really unbelievable.' Next up for Liverpool is a trip to League One outfit Shrewsbury in the FA Cup on Sunday before traveling to Premier League strugglers West Ham on Wednesday.  
