{ By Shive Prema For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:24, 24 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7922901/Adelaide-rugby-club-sports-rorts-scandal-gets-female-change-room-funding-no-womens-team.html }
A rugby union club in a marginal seat was given $500,000 for female changing rooms despite not having a women's team.  The entire female team quit Old Collegians Rugby Club in 2018, alleging that the organisation was plagued by a culture of sexism, misogyny and mistreatment.  Despite this, Old Collegians received the maximum-possible grant to build female change rooms in the lead up to the Federal Election in May last year.   The club is located the Coalition-held marginal seat of Sturt in Adelaide, which was formerly held by Christopher Pyne and after the latest election, James Stevens.  Part of the ongoing $100 million 'sport rorts' scandal under Nationals MP Bridget McKenzie, the club was awarded the grant just weeks before the election, according to The Guardian.  Sports Australia told the publication that the Moving in Forward grant 'includes the construction of female change rooms and facilities'.  Old Collegians formally announced they had received the grant in a club newsletter in August last year.  'The $500k Grant Provided by Sport Australia... will provide Old Collegians with improved Club Room facilities for all members, male and female,' the newsletter read. Days later, the club thanked those who had 'worked tirelessly' to secure the lucrative grant in a Facebook post.  'A BIGGER THANK YOU to SPORT AUSTRALIA, Local and Federal Governments along with the Offices of Vicki Chapman and Christopher Pyne as well as Burnside Council,' the post read.  Old Collegians has already put the funds to use and began upgrading the club facilities in November last year.   'The renovations are in full swing now, watch this space, exciting times ahead!' a Facebook post from the time read.  Correspondence obtained by The Guardian reveal that the former women's team and club committee clashed over alleged sexism in 2018 before they quit.   'Many of the girls now think the Committee, or at least some of you, don't like or respect us, and don't see us as equals to the men's teams (or at least don't intend to treat us the same way), aren't proud of us, or didn't think we could/would win,' an email from a women's team player read.  'They were startled that members of the committee would be so rude and unpleasant to them.'  After the women's team won the 2018 South Australian Premiership for the Old Collegians, they were not allowed to climb the club's rafters, which was a tradition for the men's team.    One of the female players also alleged a male coach had sexually harassed her, in an incident that has been investigated.  The women's team has since moved to the Adelaide University Rugby Union Club, while Old Collegians lost 20 female players and 30 supporters as a result.   The Old Collegians website claims to have 'been fielding a Women's Seniors team every year since 1995'.  However, the club last fielded a women's team in 2018 and failed to field one in 2019, according to Rugby SA.  Before the women's team quit in 2018, they won the State Premiership while the men's team lost out to Brighton.  In 2020, the club wants to 'reinvigorate' women's football and is encouraging women to come to training at 6:30pm on Tuesdays and Thursdays.  However, given the club has not registered a women's squad for the upcoming season, training a team that does not exist may prove difficult.   Daily Mail Australia has contacted the club for comment. 2018: A member of Ms McKenzie's staff warns her that targeting Coalition seats with $100 million in sports grants could lead to a 'scandal'. In an effort to 'cover their a***s', her department increases the funding to sporting clubs in Labor-held seats from 24 per cent to 36 per cent. 2019: January 15 Auditor-general report released into $100 million Community Sport Infrastructure Program. Two main conclusions: 'the award of grant funding was not informed by an appropriate assessment process and sound advice; the successful applications were not those that had been assessed as the most meritorious in terms of the published program guidelines'. January 16 Former sports minister Bridget McKenzie says no rules were broken. 'The reality was there were many hundreds of meritorious projects that we just didn't have the funding available for,' she said. Labor says Ms McKenzie, who is now in cabinet as agriculture minister, should be sacked or resign January 17 Prime Minister Scott Morrison refers issue to his department chief, but does not make this publicly known  Minor parties say they will back a Senate inquiry into the matter, when parliament resumes on February 4 January 18 Law firm Slater and Gordon says a class action is possible as tens of millions of dollars in sporting club grants were awarded to clubs whose applications for funding would otherwise have been unsuccessful January 20 Mr Morrison says in interviews he is taking the auditor report seriously and that he's tasked the attorney-general with looking at legal issues raised in it January 21 Labor wants the details published of all grant applications and their assessment scores Law academic Professor Anne Twomey questioned whether the constitution was breached as the federal government has no power to hand out money to sports clubs January 22 Prime minister publicly reveals he sought an inquiry by his department chief  Media reports say Ms McKenzie was a member of a gun club which received a grant. The membership was not declared by the minister. Her office says the membership was a gift and did not need declaring. February 2 Bridget McKenzie resigns   
