sport football
{ By Rod Ardehali For Mailonline and Jake Wallis Simmons Associate Global Editor For Mailonline   Published:  10:24, 23 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7920113/Piers-Morgan-blasts-BBC-strange-decision-axe-Victoria-Derbyshire-Show.html }
Victoria Derbyshire has said she is 'absolutely devastated' at the BBC's shock decision to axe her award-winning show. In a series of tweets she said how 'unbelievably' proud she was of her young colleagues and also revealed that the first anyone on her team knew of it was when they read it in yesterday's Times. The acclaimed journalist opened today's show by issuing a rallying cry, telling viewers: 'We are still here, we won't give up.'  Mrs Derbyshire, who is one of the broadcaster's highest earners pocketing around £215,000-a-year, opened Thursday's programme by insisting: 'We are still here telling your stories and covering the issues that are important to you in your life.'  Adding: 'And do you know what? We don't give up.'  Today Ms Derbyshire wrote on Twitter: 'Absolutely devastated at the plan to end our programme (which I first learned about in yesterday's Times). 'I'm unbelievably proud of what our team and our show have achieved in under five years, breaking tonnes of original stories (which we were asked to do); attracting a working class, young diverse audience that BBC radio and TV news progs just don't reach (which we were asked to do): and smashing the digital figures (Which we were asked to do). 'I'm gutted particularly for our brilliant, young, ambitious, talented team - love 'em. And for all those people we gave a voice to. Love them too.'  Show staff are furious. One member also told MailOnline they the leak of the decision forced Gavin Allen, the BBC's deputy head of news, to call a hastily-arranged meeting to inform Ms Derbyshire and her editor, Liz Gibbons, yesterday. A show said: 'It was all very rushed. They told Victoria and Liz first, in separate rooms, then they summoned the rest of the team. 'They gave us no details. We don't even know when the show is due to stop. There's talk of retaining some sort of online presence, though frankly I don't think anyone's holding out a huge amount of hope for that one.' Mr Allen insisted to staff that the programme was being cut to save money. 'The message was, you've done a brilliant job but something's got to give,' the source said. 'There's a move away from expensive TV programmes in studios towards digital output. We have a whole team of people down in a big studio. They're saving in that area.' Some journalists were outraged at the termination of a BBC programme with a female-dominated staff. 'The presenter and editor are female, the deputy editor is female, the planning editor is female, the two reporters are female, the production team is split but is predominantly female,' one said. 'What are they doing, getting rid of that? 'We've been told for God knows how long that we need to get to these unrepresented, diverse audiences. 'We do that, and then it's like, you know what? You're too expensive. We're going back to an interview on Skype with a professor of some university somewhere.' Despite pulling in an average of just 250,000 viewers, the show has won praise for tackling a wide range of important issues including the Windrush scandal, knife crime, facial recognition technology, domestic abuse and home-grown terrorism. In similar time slots BBC Breakfast pulls in 1.5 million viewers and Good Morning Britain more than 800,000, at last report in 2018.   The presenter also won an army of fans documenting her breast cancer treatment and remission in a series of frank pieces highlighting her difficult road to recovery.  The acclaimed journalist's husband Mark Sandell also swung in to support of his wife, taking the BBC to task in a heartfelt Facebook post this morning.  The fellow journalist wrote: 'Can you come up with a daily TV show that breaks stories, does investigations, serves an audience usually ignored by BBC News, and celebrates diversity in all its forms? 'Can you make sure the young, passionate, predominantly female and committed team are so good that they'll win BAFTA, RTS and Pink News awards, presented by a multiple Sony award winning journalist?' The former BBC World Service producer, clearly angered at the lack of support given to the programme, finished off by saying: 'Yes? (to the above). Thanks all the same....' The decision also shocked Good Morning Britain host Piers Morgan, who slammed the BBC over its 'very strange decision' to axe it from the morning schedules.  Piers also suggested the decision, which has been greeted with anger by viewers, is because the broadcaster is having to tighten its belt amid a series of ongoing gender pay gap disputes.  Calling Mrs Derbyshire a 'superb journalist', he tweeted: 'Surely the BBC isn't now finding the cash to pay for its gender pay fiasco by cancelling other women's shows?'   It remains unclear whether the show will disappear from air entirely or whether a streamlined version will be produced for BBC iPlayer.  The director of BBC News and current affairs Fran Unsworth said it had 'not been an easy decision' to cancel Derbyshire's programme, blaming changing audience behaviours for the move. In an email to staff on Thursday, Ms Unsworth wrote: 'Over the last five years, the programme has delivered award-winning, distinctive journalism, exploring topics which the BBC has not traditionally covered. 'From its ground-breaking interviews on abuse in football to uncovering the complications caused by mesh implants and revealing failures in the tax credit system which affected working-class women, the programme has championed important stories and fresh reporting talent. 'This is exactly the type of journalism we need to continue, reaching audiences who are often under-served by the BBC, and we will be retaining some of the programme's journalism roles to enable us to continue this work. We will outline further details of this next week.' She said: 'Victoria is a hugely talented and engaging presenter and will continue to be a central part of the BBC News team. 'She will be taking a wider role across our broadcast and digital output and will continue to lead on some of the high-profile audience events and original stories she has championed so effectively in recent years.' The move comes ahead of the mid-term and the renewal of its charter in 2027, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson reportedly open to reviewing the licence fee.  MailOnline approached the BBC press department for comment which declined to comment.  BBC Media Editor Amol Rajan reported last night that the cost of the programme was 'deemed too high'. He said: 'The Victoria Derbyshire Show is coming off air. I understand @BBCNews is committed to Victoria + the (award-winning) journalism of the show. 'Cost of doing it on linear channel when savings are needed deemed too high. BBC declined to comment ahead of an announcement next week.  Viewers were left 'devastated' after the BBC announced the show would be axed over its soaring costs ahead of its 2022 mid-term review.  Reema Patel said: 'The quality of Victoria Derbyshire's journalism is second to none.'   Suzy Elneil said the announcement was 'devastating' with the show have 'consistently won awards for its work on bringing human suffering to light.'  Former editor of the show Louisa Compton described the plan to axe the show as 'madness', saying: 'An organisation that values original journalism and underserved audiences should not be doing this.' She added that the programme 'consistently breaks huge stories, has won countless awards including a BAFTA and has broken new ground'. Journalist Emma Ailes, who works on the programme, said it was 'devastating news'. She posted on Twitter: 'Sitting here putting together tomorrow's @VictoriaLIVE. 3 other journalists on the team here with me, all young, female and so talented. And busting a gut to make it as brilliant a programme as ever despite devastating news today. I've never worked on a team that cared so much.' Anna Collinson, who also works on the show, added: 'It's gutting this could mean the end of a young, talented, diverse team who are led by strong, female editors and a fantastic female presenter. 'It's gutting for our viewers. The BBC is constantly criticised for failing underserved audiences. The same audiences we were proud to serve and served well. I have already heard from interviewees who are devastated by this news. 'We are a scrappy, feisty and passionate bunch and always did our absolute best to hold those in power to account. 'Whatever happens now, I will forever be proud of working for this award-winning programme and will never forget everything it taught me.' Shadow culture secretary Tracy Brabin said she would be 'looking into why (the show) is being taken off air'. She tweeted: 'Rigorous campaigning & commitment to public having their say made it pretty unique in daytime TV. 'Victoria herself was sharp & approachable with a personal journey that made her relatable.' And Conservative MP Damian Collins, who is bidding to be re-elected as chairman of the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee, said the reports were 'disturbing'. 'There needs to be a proper review of BBC finances as well as asking license fee payers what they value and want to see more of,' he said. The Victoria Derbyshire Show began in 2015 and broadcasts live on BBC Two and BBC News every weekday from 10am. The programme won a Bafta in 2017 and has been nominated for several awards, including RTS Presenter of the Year. 
