sport football
{ By Claire Toureille For Mailonline   Published:  10:18, 23 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7919881/Victoria-Beckhams-new-590-colour-block-sweater-looks-identical-West-Hams-old-kit.html }
After marrying a Man United man, is Victoria Beckham's new jumper an admission she secretly vouches for West Ham?  The 45-year-old designer's new jumper, a £590 colour block number in red and blue, looks extremely similar to the East London football club's old kit, which features the exact same colours.   It also shares the same bicolour block as the club's vintage kit, with blue sleeves and red chest.  A blue line on the top's crew neck is also reminiscent of the football jersey, although the sports gear had two blue lines at the neck instead of one.  While the current West Ham kit is a maroon colour, the old kits that resemble Victoria's jumper were worn by the team during their 1965 win at the European Cup.   The item is described as 'ideal for pairing with this high-waisted skirts and trousers,' on Posh's website.  The designer herself is not the most eager fan of the sport, having said in the past that she called her husband David's tournaments 'football competitions,' and added she could never remember the proper terms for the games.  West Ham was David Beckham's local club when he was growing up in Leytonstone, but he never played for them.  The club failed to woo the player, now 44, at the end of his LA Galaxy stint in 2010.  The similarities between the Beckham top and the West Ham kit is similar to the Beyonce Adidas x Ivy Park collaboration, which was mercilessly mocked by eagle-eyed fans who compared it to the uniforms Sainsbury's staff wear.  The maroon tracksuits with orange lines got the attention of the British supermarket itself, who playfully tweeted: 'Repping since 1869,' with a wink emoji.  When teasing the collection, the songstress wore a pair of utility style Adidas joggers, paired with a matching sports bra which came complete with unique detachable sleeves. The sports giant's iconic stripe trio glowed in solar orange against the deep maroon fabric and featured on many clothes from the collection.  When a defensive fan responded: 'you didn't invent this color palette', the cheeky social media manager at the supermarket penned: 'We made it famous though!!' Fans couldn't help but poke fun at the comparison to the Sainsbury's uniform, taking to Twitter to say they 'couldn't unsee it'.  One computer savvy fan went as far as superimposing the star onto an image of the supermarket aisle.   A tickled fan wrote: 'So Beyoncé basically revamped @sainsburys uniform.A true queen.' Another chimed: 'I literally can’t get over the fact that Beyoncé’s ivy park line looks like the sainsburys uniform I wish I could unsee it some of the pieces are cute as well.'  A third added: 'Nar Beyoncé new ivy wear looking like a sainsburys workers uniform! who are her researchers!'   Beyonce's IVY PARK label was established in 2016 and sold exclusively at Topshop. Following sexual harassment drama with TopShop owner Phillip Green, Beyonce pulled the line, bought back Green's IVY PARK shares, and became the sole owner of her brand in 2018.  She introduced plans for her collaboration with Adidas back in April of last year, so fans have been on the edge of their seats waiting for the details to come flooding out for a while now.  This will be IVY PARKS first ever collaboration with Adidas.   YOUR POWER, OUR PURPOSE. YOUR FREEDOM, OUR MISSION. YOUR STYLE, OUR MUSE,' totes the Adidas homepage. The line features tracksuits, bodysuits and jumpsuits as well as items like over-sized hoodies that pair Bey's signature style with the Adidas three stripe design.             
