sport football
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  02:02, 23 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7918923/Timeline-McKenzie-sports-grants-scandal.html }
TIMELINE OF SPORTS GRANTS SCANDAL January 15 - Auditor-general report released into $100 million Community Sport Infrastructure Program. Two main conclusions: "the award of grant funding was not informed by an appropriate assessment process and sound advice; the successful applications were not those that had been assessed as the most meritorious in terms of the published program guidelines". January 16 - Former sports minister Bridget McKenzie says no rules were broken. "The reality was there were many hundreds of meritorious projects that we just didn't have the funding available for." - Labor says McKenzie, who is now in cabinet as agriculture minister, should be sacked or resign January 17 - Prime Minister refers issue to his department chief, but does not make this publicly known - Minor parties say they will back a Senate inquiry into the matter, when parliament resumes on February 4 January 18 - Slater and Gordon says a class action is possible as tens of millions of dollars in sporting club grants were awarded to clubs whose applications for funding would otherwise have been unsuccessful. January 20 - PM says in interviews he is taking the auditor report seriously and that he's tasked the attorney-general with looking at legal issues raised in it. January 21 - Labor wants the details published of all grant applications and their assessment scores - Law academic Professor Anne Twomey questioned whether the constitution was breached as the federal government has no power to hand out money to sports clubs. January 22 - PM publicly reveals he sought an inquiry by his department chief - Media reports say McKenzie was a member of a gun club which received a grant. The membership was not declared by the minister. Her office says the membership was a gift and did not need declaring. 
