sport football
{ By Danielle Zoellner For Mailonline   Published:  22:27, 22 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7917013/Josephine-Skriver-named-newest-rookie-Sports-Illustrated-Swimsuit-2020-Issue.html }
Josephine Skriver has been named Sports Illustrated newest rookie for the 2020 magazine shoot, and she is kicking off her position as a sports correspondent for the company during the Super Bowl.  The Danish model, 26, has been Victoria's Secret Angel since 2016 and previously worked for brands including Dior, Gucci, and Yves Saint Laurent Beauty.  On Wednesday, Skriver announced her latest project, and it involves being one of the newest rookies for the 2020 Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue.  'GUYS!! HUGE NEWS!! Argh I have so many butterflies in my stomach i can barely contain my excitement and nervousness haha!! IM JOINING THE #SISwim family as their newest ROOKIE,' Skriver wrote on Instagram.  The post included a picture of Skriver posing against a backdrop of past Sports Illustrated issues.  But the news didn't stop there.  Skriver revealed she would be working as a sports correspondent for Sports Illustrated during the Super Bowl on February 2 when the Kansas City Chiefs take on the San Francisco 49ers.   'I finally get to combine my love of modeling to my love of football! This is a dream come true!! Someone pinch me,' Skriver wrote.  Her role as the sports correspondent for Sports Illustrated will include working Radio Row during the game while promoting her status with the magazine. Skriver will also work the role in a number of other ways throughout the year.  This position is perfect for the model, who boasts being a massive sports fan.  Her NFL team is the Oakland Raiders, who will not be making an appearance in the Super Bowl, but she enjoys the sport regardless.  Skriver will join fellow rookies Lorena Duran, Marquita Pring, Brooks Nader, Kim Reikenberg, and Hyunjoo Hwang to also be featured in the 2020 issue. She expressed on Instagram how joining the Sports Illustrated team has been a career goal for her during her more than 10 years in the industry.  The model, who was born in Copenhagen, Denmark, was first scouted as a model when she was a teenager while on a trip to New York City. She decided to pursue modeling in her country before expanding to international work.  In 2011, Skriver made her New York Fashion Week debut by walking for both Calvin Klein and Rag & Bone. She also attended Milan and Paris Fashion Week for that season, appearing for designers that included Chanel and Balenciaga.  This launched Skriver into the spotlight before she landed multiple jobs with Victoria's Secret, including walking in every fashion show for the lingerie brand starting in 2013.  But now Skriver is getting a chance to bare her toned frame for Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue while also incorporating her passion for sports.    
