sport football
{ By Martin Samuel Chief Sports Reporter For The Daily Mail   Published:  17:00, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/boxing/article-8029597/Tyson-Fury-Deontay-Wilder-boxings-true-rivalry-people-turn-watch-Pompey.html }
A woman fainted waiting for Deontay Wilder to show at the MGM Grand on Thursday afternoon, but this was no boxing Beatlemania. Las Vegas can do that to a person.  All slots and no clocks, it can be overwhelming to the uninitiated. She may not even have been aware that she was part of a small gathering hoping to catch a glimpse of the WBC heavyweight champion.  Flash mobs appear from nowhere in Vegas, too. It's like Madness' Our House but spread insanely over a city. 'There's always something happening and it's usually quite loud.' What is happening this weekend is the biggest heavyweight title fight this century, or so it is claimed. Deontay Wilder-Tyson Fury. And is it loud? Well, yes and no. The purse is huge, the financial rewards spectacular. The pay per view price Stateside is £62, and the take up is predicted to be over a million.  As for tickets, they'll set you back as much as, er, face value. That's right. It's not a sell-out, and the arena only holds 17,000. That is one of boxing's many contradictions. These men could be splitting upwards of £100m while failing to pull in as many as pay to watch Portsmouth in League One each week. Boxing belongs to the broadcasters now.  There will be the usual famous faces in the crowd on Saturday and the high rollers will get their comps as always, yet it is a British and Irish invasion that will guarantee the atmosphere at the MGM Grand Garden Arena. Fainting ladies notwithstanding, Wilder's status in his homeland encapsulates boxing's dual existence. He was expected late morning on stage for a Fox Sports broadcast. Tyson Fury had already been and gone and was loudly appreciated. Not mobbed or besieged in the way LeBron James would have been, but they like him here, they find him colourfully eccentric.  Then, when Fury had left the stage, we waited for Wilder. And waited. And waited some more. But it was an awkward pause. Not the buzz of anticipation that would normally precede an appearance by an athlete of his stature.  The throng did not grow with the spread of Chinese whispers. Some rubber-neckers got bored and drifted away, others stopped by because they spotted a crowd and curiosity overcame them. Floyd Mayweather's manager Leonard Ellerbe took the stage and no-one really knew who he was, despite his client being the man who upped the financial ante for the entire industry.  Occasionally, television runners would try to raise the atmosphere a notch, promote the odd cry of 'Bomb Squad', Wilder's catchphrase. But it didn't catch on, Mike Tyson used to have a member of his entourage employed as a hype-man. Steve Fitch, known as The Crocodile, would be two minutes ahead of him through every public space during fight week, shouting the odds. 'He's here! Mike Tyson! Pound for pound, the best fighter on the planet! The baddest man in the world! Mike Tyson! Guerilla warfare, baby!'  And the scene set, Tyson and his team would march through, to pandemonium. Wilder needs a barker like that, extolling his talents. Instead, without fanfare, close to anonymous, the Bronze Bomber stood by the side of the stage, waiting to make his entrance. He wore the WBC belt draped casually over one shoulder and, dressed in nondescript grey sweats, looked like the guy that worked for the world heavyweight champion, rather than the man himself. And as he stood there, the absence of buzz was almost startling.  If that had been Cristiano Ronaldo, say, in a place where football fans had congregated there would have been mayhem. Surges, as individuals scrambled for selfies, or just a sighting, cheers, roars. It wouldn't have mattered that a live show was being recorded. As any deadline day reporter will confirm, fans are no respecters of decorum on camera. Yet for Wilder, nothing. He just stood, patiently, to a striking absence of hullabuloo and when he was finally called forward it was to a muted reception, save for a loud guttural chant that turned out to come from a gentlemen with a broadcasters' headset. Boxing promoters paper the halls but amplifying the audience is usually unnecessary. There was then a five minute delay while Wilder had his microphones attached, dutifully co-operative, while the soundman performed his menial chore. Camera on, he was a showman, as Fury is, but no fighters should be working this hard on a Thursday to sell a show. Certainly not the heavyweight champion. A short while later Fury was back in the media room for another round of broadcast interviews. At one point he gave a brief exclusive to the young man who manages Conor McGregor's YouTube channel, helping promote his own brand Irish whiskey.  'No need to rush, he'll be here an hour,' said a handler of Fury. An hour. Lennox Lewis would do one official media day and not be seen again until the weigh-in. There was something incongruous in watching Wilder and Fury trying to graft their way further into public consciousness when this should be a contest that needs no hard-sell. It is that unique beast, a fight between two outstanding, unbeaten heavyweights at their peak. How often does that happen? Wladimir Klitschko was past his best when he fought Anthony Joshua; Andy Ruiz Jr was nobody's idea of a champion. It is very rare that two fighters come together, with so much at stake and in their prime. It is also very rare that a fight throws up so many permutations and possibilities.  And, no, this isn't the heavyweight division's golden age, but it is not a bad one, and seeing Fury sat on stage, nervous energy leaking from his bouncing legs and twiddling fingers, singing for his supper one final time, actually felt quite poignant.  He is going into a fight against one of the most explosive punchers the sport has seen. That's Wilder's bomb. And as that point grows nearer, the bulk of the money says Wilder knocks him out. In the last 24 hours, 80 per cent of bets placed favour Wilder.  This is the point when athletes retreat into a world of intense focus. 'They'll both be trying to find time to themselves, so they can get physically and mentally right,' said Lennox Lewis. Yet here was Fury, dressed up in his latest tailored headline-maker - his suit was embroidered with the words 'Big Dosser', his favoured insult for Wilder - making another sales pitch. There was even a plan to get him in a room with some YouTube influencers, if possible. And, sure, for £60m, you might do that, too. Yet there were times, as he waited for the next hook-up, that one of the most dangerous men on the planet looked almost vulnerable.  There have been some lurid accounts of his mental state coming into this fight. If he loses, it would be no great surprise to hear a quite terrifying back story by way of explanation. For all the hype and hoopla, the ring is the starkest arena once left to the combatants, and Fury's illness is every bit as real.  Andy Lee, Fury's trainer, has spoken of pulling him out of dark mental troughs several times in the build up. At one stage, it was contemplated hiring an Elvis Presley impersonator to lift his spirits, the depression had got so bad. Yet if Fury fights well, if he wins? It would give boxing its most genuinely charismatic champion in years. A talker, a cod-philosopher, a mesmeric figure, unpredictable and brave, but flawed, like all of the populist sports heroes. Boxing often appears in existential crisis, yet all it needs is one great fight or one great champion and this, potentially, is that fight and that champion.  Wilder came to Britain looking for a challenger and Fury, to his credit, stepped up. Joshua has more belts than the pair of them put together, but losing to Ruiz has relegated him. This is Fury and Wilder's division right now, with talk already of making it a trilogy.  And as self defeating as that may sound - if there are plans for part three, what is the point of part two - it is apparent is that these boxers have come to define each other and, by doing so, define the current heavyweight division. They have unique styles and a unique rivalry that should sell itself.  That it needs the hardest of pitches says as much of the sport as the protagonists. Yet, for all that, hundreds of millions remain at stake. Some seats may be empty, The Crocodile may have snapped his last, but even above Vegas' cacophony, boxing's call remains loud. 
