{ By Phil Blanche, Press Association   Published:  15:34, 21 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/sportsnews/article-7912243/Tributes-paid-Emiliano-Sala-anniversary-Argentine-strikers-tragic-death.html }
Cardiff management, players and supporters have paid tribute to Emiliano Sala on the first anniversary of the striker's death. The Argentinian forward died on January 21, 2019 when the plane carrying him from Nantes in France to his new club Cardiff crashed in the English Channel near Guernsey. The footballer's body was recovered from the wreckage, but pilot David Ibbotson, from Crowle, North Lincolnshire, has still not been found. Bluebirds manager Neil Harris, captain Sean Morrison and Sol Bamba were among those to attend a dedication service to Sala and Ibbotson at St David's Cathedral in Cardiff city centre on Tuesday afternoon. Supporters arrived at the Cardiff City Stadium throughout the morning to pay tribute to Sala. Fans left flowers, banners and shirts in memory of Sala, who was unveiled as a Cardiff player two days before his death. One tribute read: 'We never saw you play and we never saw you score but Emiliano our beautiful Bluebird we will love you forever more.' A floral tribute quoted Sala's own words, saying: 'I know the challenge is big but together we will make it.' The message added: 'Forever in our hearts.' An Argentinian flag was laid next to the Fred Keenor Statue, with the name 'Sala' written on it. Cardiff expressed their sympathy to the friends and family of Sala on their official website. 'All of our thoughts are with the family and friends of Emiliano Sala and (pilot) David Ibbotson,' said a Cardiff club statement on behalf of the owner Vincent Tan and the board. 'The pain they have been through over the last 12 months must be indescribable. 'To mark the anniversary we are welcoming supporters to lay floral tributes at the Fred Keenor Statue throughout the day.' Sala's family will mark the anniversary of the striker's death in 'private, quiet contemplation of their loss', their British lawyer has said. 'The Sala family will mark the anniversary of the untimely death of Emiliano in private, quiet contemplation of their loss,' Daniel Machover, of Hickman & Rose solicitors, and representing the family, said in a statement. 'The family's primary concern remains for the full inquest to take place as soon as possible, so that they can finally learn the truth about what happened and ensure that no family has to suffer a similar preventable loss of a loved one. 'Therefore, in the run-up to the pre-inquest review hearing on 16 March 2020, it is imperative that the coroner receives by 14 February 2020 (and then promptly shares with the family) the update required by the coroner from all investigating bodies - the police, CAA (Civil Aviation Authority) and AAIB (Air Accidents Investigation Branch) 'The CAA in particular must speed up its work.'   Sala's father Horacio died three months after his son, suffering a heart attack at his home in Progreso. But he said before his death that all parties involved in the transfer - including clubs and agents - should have made more effort to look after the welfare of his son. Sala was exposed to high levels of carbon monoxide prior to the crash, a report later revealed. Cardiff, who were in the Premier League at the time, and Nantes have since been in dispute over fee payments. The Welsh club unveiled Sala two days before his death, but have argued they were not liable for the full £15million transfer fee because the 28-year-old was not officially their player when he died. The case was heard by FIFA's players' status committee, with the world governing body announcing at the end of September that Cardiff had been ordered to pay the first instalment of Sala's transfer fee - six million euros (just under £5.2m). Cardiff appealed against that ruling and it will go before the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) in Lausanne, Switzerland. The final decision is not expected before June 2020. Cardiff decided not to hold an official vigil to mark the anniversary of Sala's death, but said fans were welcome to lay tributes at the Fred Keenor statue during the day. The statue was the spot where Cardiff fans laid floral tributes, scarves and shirts in memory of Sala last year. Nantes, for whom Sala scored 42 goals in 120 league games during three-and-a-half years at the club, will wear a special commemorative shirt at the Ligue 1 home game against Bordeaux on Sunday. 'Because he dreamed of the Albiceleste (Argentina national team), the players will swap their yellow shirt for one inspired by his home country,' Nantes said on their official club website. 'All the proceeds from sales of this shirt will be allocated to the two Argentinian clubs (Club San Martin de Progreso and Proyecto Crecer) where Emiliano began his career.' Nantes, who have already retired Sala's No 9 shirt, will unveil a canvas of him in the centre-circle before kick-off against Bordeaux, another of his former clubs, while a special fan banner and a minute's applause is also planned. January 21, 2019: The single-turbine engine Piper PA-46 Malibu leaves Nantes at 7.15pm for Cardiff and is flying at an altitude of 5,000ft. At 8.50pm the plane disappears from radar in the English Channel. January 22: The French civil aviation authority confirms Argentinian footballer Emiliano Sala, 28, who had just signed for Cardiff City, was on board the light aircraft. Piloting the plane was David Ibbotson, from Crowle, near Scunthorpe. January 24: Guernsey's harbour master Captain David Barker says the chances Sala and Mr Ibbotson have survived is 'extremely remote'.   January 26: It emerges that football agent Willie McKay arranged for the flight to take Sala to Cardiff but he says he had no involvement in selecting the plane or pilot. He also backs calls for the search to continue. January 27: Relatives and friends of Sala arrive in Guernsey, having enlisted the help of shipwreck hunting expert David Mearns.  January 28: Sala's family, including his mother Mercedes and sister Romina, take a chartered flight in a plane operated by Guernsey airline Aurigny over the area where the plane disappeared. January 30: The Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) says two seat cushions found washed up earlier in the week near Surtainville on the Cotentin Peninsula are likely to have come from the plane carrying Sala and his pilot. February 3: Wreckage of the plane is located in a fresh, privately funded search which was made possible after a fundraising campaign saw more than £260,000 donated. Feburary 4: A body is visible in seabed video footage of the wreckage of the plane. The AAIB says the footage was filmed using an underwater remotely operated vehicle (ROV) which was surveying the area after the plane was located. February 6: A body seen in the wreckage of the plane is recovered. The AAIB says the body will be taken to Portland to be passed over to the Dorset coroner for examination. The aircraft remains 67 metres underwater 21 miles off the coast of Guernsey. The AAIB says attempts to recover the aircraft wreckage were unsuccessful and, due to continued poor weather forecast, 'the difficult decision was taken to bring the overall operation to a close'. February 7: The Geo Ocean III search boat returns to dock in Portland, Dorset, carrying the wreckage of the Piper Malibu aircraft. Investigators wait to confirm if the body inside the wreckage is that of the pilot or the Argentinian footballer - and identified him using his fingerprints. June 5:  Two people charged over a photograph taken in a mortuary of footballer Emiliano Sala that was posted on social media.  June 19:  David Henderson, 64, from York, arrested on suspicion of manslaughter by an unlawful act. He was later released under investigation - which is still ongoing August 14: An interim report by the Air Accidents Investigation Branch reveals tests on Sala's body have found enough evidence of carbon monoxide to cause a heart attack, seizure or unconsciousness. September 23: Nantes reject Cardiff's offer of a deal to settle Emiliano Sala transfer fee row as French club continue to demand £15m. Septemebr 30:  FIFA has ruled that Cardiff owe Nantes £5.3million for the 'first instalment' of the transfer of the late striker Emiliano Sala.  December 5: Cardiff appeal the decision ordering them to pay £5million to Nantes for the transfer of Emiliano Sala.  January 12, 2020:   It is revealed that Neil Warnock had to hand over texts and emails regarding Sala days before he left his role as Cardiff boss.  January 21, 2020: Cardiff express sympathy to Sala's friends and family and tell fans they are welcome to lay tributes outside the stadium on the anniversary of the striker's death. Nantes, meanwhile, reveal they will wear a special commemorative shirt for Sala for their game against Bordeaux on Sunday.   
