sport football
{ By Sean O'grady For Mailonline   Published:  01:56, 21 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7909873/Love-Island-fans-concerned-Mike-Leanne-attacks-massage-date.html }
Love Island fans were worried for Mike in Monday's episode as he appeared to be in pain as Leanne gave him a massage on their date. The pair hit it off on day one when they coupled up and looked cosy on the get together as Leanne, 22, gave the police officer, 24, a back massage. But it appears her skills were a bit too much for Mike at times as he squealed while she tried to loosen his muscles up.    Fans took to social media to comment on the moment, with one writing: 'Mike is lowkey tramautised by Leanne's massage skills.' Another said: 'Wtf is Leanne doing? Mike is gonna need a massage after that massage #LoveIsland'.  Mike previously played football, with Leanne asking him during the date does he have any plans to return to the sport in the future.   He said: 'Football is always a passion of mine. Probably number one. Growing up, it's what I wanted to do. I was really fortunate when I had the opportunity... 'I signed up for a really good team. I probably could have continued to be honest but there was a lot of other things that I wanted to try. Mike then asked Leanne how she would feel about becoming a WAG if he was to get back into the sport.   He said: 'When I was younger I had a load of things I wanted to do. Football wasn't the be all and end all. If I was to get back into football, would you mind being a WAG?' Laughing, she replied: 'I mean, who would mind being a WAG? When we get out of here, we're going to find you a team.'  Mike also gave Leanne a massage during their get together while things got steamy when the pair shared a kiss on the date. Despite not knowing each other very long, Leanne admitted she could see 'potential' for her and Mike to form a long term relationship.  However there could be trouble in paradise for the pair as bombshell Rebecca planted a kiss on Mike shortly after she entered the villa in Monday's episode.  Dressed in a white and gold Grecian-style swimsuit, Rebecca performed a dance for the boys after her dramatic entrance.   The girls were raging as they watched from the roof terrace while the former Miss Newcastle makes it clear which boy she's planning on getting to know better. After the boys gathered around the fire pit, Rebecca sashayed over to Mike and kissed him on the cheek.  The girls were left open-mouthed in shock, visibly outraged the newcomer would go for the former policeman. Rebecca's explosive entrance was teased at the end of Sunday night's episode, where she made it clear she had her eye on Mike, Callum and Connagh. She is set to face stiff competition in her bid to land any one of the three men, as Callum recoupled with outspoken Shaugnha on Friday. Meanwhile, fellow bombshell Connagh was responsible for one of the biggest shocks of the series thus far, when he opted to 'steal' Sophie from Connor during Friday night's dramatic recoupling. However, it would appear that Rebecca is up for the challenge, as she's not short on confidence, rating herself an '8.5 maybe nine' out of 10 in the looks department, while assuring that she's 'fun, loud, outgoing, fearless, and spontaneous'. As for her strategy with luring one of the men in the villa, she explained: 'I need to chat to them. I haven't seen enough of them to know how I'm going to approach it. 'I like funny guys, so I'm thinking making the guy laugh is a tick in the box. But no smooth moves, I'll just be myself.' Love Island continues Tuesday at 9pm on ITV2.  
