sport football
{ By Eliza Mcphee For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  10:24, 19 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7904011/Fitness-instructor-Ben-Lucas-promotes-yoga-Sydney-gym-Flow-Athletic.html }
A former NRL player created a multimillion-dollar fitness empire after switching from the football field to a yoga studio. Ben Lucas, 40, who once played for the Cronulla Sharks, now runs Flow Athletic, a studio in Sydney's eastern suburbs that makes an annual turnover of $4million. Mr Lucas left rugby league behind in 2003, and said the key to his business success was showing both men and women the health benefits yoga has. Lucas, a father-of-two said he discovered his passion for yoga in 2009 when he was training for a 100km run. 'It really made a big difference. There were so many benefits, it helped me with my recovery so I could train sooner and at a higher quality,' he told Daily Mail Australia. 'It made me more flexible, and helped me with my breathing.'  The start of Flow Athletic came in 2013 after Mr Lucas met yoga instructor Kate Kendall. 'She started doing personal training with me and the strength and fitness really helped her yoga and I found the yoga really helped my fitness,' Mr Lucas said. He then said it was their plan to combine the two and create the fitness studio combining strength and yoga under the same roof. The 40-year-old said initially it was hard to convince people of the health benefits that yoga provided. But after international sporting stars started doing yoga, Mr Lucas said there was a huge change. 'There was some really famous athletes internationally, LeBron James, Tom Brady were yoga converts and they really helped their sport so it was quite easy to kind of sell off it that,' he said. Mr Lucas said his yoga classes now have nearly as many men as women with 40 per cent of the participants being males.  Mr Lucas said his NRL career came to an end after suffering too many head knocks. 'I then focused on my career in fitness and became a full time personal trainer. It was when I found yoga that I decided to open a place with yoga and strength under the same roof,' he said.  Mr Lucas' studio runs a variety of classes from yoga, cycling, running and strength training and welcomes 1000 members. Some of Flow Athletic's biggest events include silent discos involving yoga that are available across the country. The studio is now raising money to help those affected by Australia's devastating bushfire crisis which has taken the lives of 29 people. At the end of the month, 100 per cent of ticket sales for the next silent yoga disco event will go towards the Australian Red Cross Society.       
