sport football
{ By Oliver Holt for the Mail on Sunday   Published:  22:30, 18 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7902743/OLIVER-HOLT-good-Scotland-heading-right-direction-step-up.html }
Two years ago, the NFL made a change to its rules. 'It is a foul if a player lowers his head to initiate and make contact with his helmet against an opponent,' the new ruling said. 'This rule pertains to all players on the field, and to all areas of the field.' Last year, it made another change. 'The blindside block is eliminated,' it said, 'expanding the protection of defenceless players. 'It is now prohibited for a blocker to initiate forcible contact with his head, shoulder or forearm when his path is toward or parallel to his own end line.' So even in the NFL, where big hits are prized as a part of the sport fans love best, the rules evolve and the game changes. The game is responding to what it now knows and what can be denied no longer. It is adapting to the knowledge it is accruing. It is changing because it cannot ignore the long-term damage done to its players any more. It is changing because it has no choice. Three years ago, the largest ever study of cases of American football players with the degenerative brain disease, Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) found more evidence of a link between the condition and 'prior participation in football'. The study looked at the brains of 111 NFL players and found CTE in 110 of them. The NFL is changing and now it is time for English football to change, as well. Our game, too, has the evidence. We have done our best to ignore it for too long but that will not work any more. Not since an exhaustive study by a team at Glasgow University found last year former professional footballers were three-and-a-half times more likely to die from dementia and other serious neurological diseases. When it emerged last week that the Scottish Football Association was finalising plans to ban children under the age of 12 from heading footballs, there were some predictable laments about it being another victory for the snowflake generation.  That's right, what is the world coming to when you are no longer permitted to take repeated blows to the head that could lead you to develop dementia in later life and cause years of anguish to your family members as they watch you retreat into another world and another persona. Speak to Chris Sutton about that. His father, Mike, a former professional footballer, has dementia that Sutton is convinced stemmed from his time in the game. Speak to Dawn Astle, too, the daughter of the late West Brom and England striker Jeff Astle, whose perseverance did so much to educate football on the potential dangers of heading the ball.  Banning players under 12 from heading is a start. They have already done something similar with junior soccer in the US. Some worry that it will compromise an integral part of the game but if kids practise heading with foam balls until they are older, there is no reason why their technique should suffer. Anyway, football in this country has reached a point where it really can't afford to do anything else. Morally or financially. It has been painfully slow to respond. Now, it has to act. In the same way the NFL had to act. Part of English football's reluctance to confront the issue is almost certainly rooted in financial concerns. By last year, the NFL had already paid more than half a billion dollars to ex-players as part of its concussion settlement. The Premier League and the Football League might yet find themselves vulnerable to a similar scenario. And that might be just the start of its problems. American football is seeing a fall in participation rates in high schools across the USA as parents grow more and more concerned about the dangers of the sport. The same issues will affect football, and rugby, here. If football has to change, then it has to change. The alternative —that we soldier blindly on, despite knowing what we know — is simply not viable. It is going to be tough to pick out one Liverpool player above any other for Footballer of the Year this year because it would be easy to make a case for Trent Alexander-Arnold, Andy Robertson, Virgil van Dijk, Jordan Henderson, Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino. All of those players are getting the wider credit they deserve now, except perhaps Firmino. There are still fans who claim that he would not get into their team's line-up. There are fans who say he wouldn't get into any other side in the top four. The truth, of course, is that Firmino is so good he would get into any team anywhere in the world. Firmino is the island of serenity amid all Liverpool's furious relentlessness. He is the pause in the intensity. He is the calm in the storm. He is, more than any other player, the brain of the team. So don't get confused and think that because he doesn't score as many goals as some strikers, he isn't as good as them. He scores plenty, including that masterpiece of cleverness and ruthlessness at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium last weekend.  Firmino may not be as prolific as Sergio Aguero, Jamie Vardy or Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang but I'd take him over all of them in a heartbeat. The banning of Kagiso Rabada for his enthusiastic reaction to the capture of Joe Root's wicket on the first day of the Third Test in Port Elizabeth was not a good look for Test cricket. The five-day form of the sport remains the most compelling and dramatic version of the game as the Second Test in Cape Town proved again. But at a time when it is under threat from the incursion of limited overs cricket, ruling Rabada out of next week's critical Fourth Test because he was deemed to have encroached on Root's personal space during his celebration on Thursday feels absurd and archaic. Sure, Rabada's celebration after he had clean-bowled the England skipper was unrestrained, but so what? He had just dismissed England's best batsman on the first day of a Test which South Africa are desperate to win. Did we expect his celebration to be muted? Did we want it to be muted? It is not as if Rabada barged into Root or made any contact with him physically. When he screamed in exultation, he did not scream at Root. He screamed next to him. Root deserves credit for showing restraint but I suspect he was not unduly disturbed by what Rabada did. Rabada reacted instinctively, with an explosion of joy and a release of frustration. The celebration of a moment like that is part of the ecstasy of sport. If we seek to neuter it, we strike at the heart of the game.  If we were to rely on a definition of fairness from an athlete whose claim to running the world's first sub-two-hour marathon relied on the kind of conditions that could never be replicated in a genuine race, then we really would be clutching at straws. So when Eliud Kipchoge says the Nike shoes he ran in to record his time in Vienna last October did not give him any unfair advantage, you'll forgive me for ignoring him. The contentious issue with Nike's Vaporfly shoes and its hybrids is the foam and carbon-fibre composition of the sole, which acts like a spring to help runners get the most forward push from each stride. All sports seek to embrace new technology but all sports have rules, too, otherwise F1 cars could fit rocket engines and fly around the track and athletes could put jets in the heels of their shoes. Which, actually, is not a million miles away from what the Vaporfly does. Coincidentally, Brigid Kosgei was wearing Varporfly, too, when she smashed Paula Radcliffe's marathon record in Chicago. I guess there was nothing unfair about that, either. 
