sport football
{ By Oliver Holt For The Mail On Sunday   Published:  22:27, 18 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/nfl/article-7902911/We-Gladiators-miss-NFL-legend-Rice-hopes-new-generation-over.html }
The greatest player in the history of the NFL is sitting in a gym in north London, trying to decide if his memories are his friends or his enemies. Nostalgia is swamping Jerry Rice as the San Francisco 49ers, the team he graced for 16 years, edge closer to winning their first Super Bowl since 1995, when Rice was in his pomp, but nostalgia comes with a price. Rice, who won the Super Bowl three times with the great 49ers side marshalled first by Joe Montana and then Steve Young, holds an embarrassment of records in the sport.  He has scored more touchdowns than any other player, played more games than any other non-kicking player and caught more passes than any other player. The records go on and on. He holds more than 100 in all. His extraordinary career is in the spotlight again because the 49ers, who play the Green Bay Packers in the NFC Divisional Championship at Levi's Stadium on Sunday afternoon, are threatening finally to bring back the glory days they last experienced 25 years ago when wide receiver Rice and quarterback Montana were so often an unstoppable combination. He is here in England at Barnet Southgate College, helping out at the NFL Academy, which gives aspiring young American football players and athletes the chance to develop their skills and knowledge of the game.  He is 57 now but he still delights in running routes with the students. Most of them knew who he was because his legend preceded him. Those who didn't Googled him. Rice likes the recognition. His Twitter feed is full of references to him as the G.O.A.T (Greatest of All Time) and not many demur. He and the former Cleveland Browns running back Jim Brown routinely top lists of the best NFL players ever. But there are times when the recognition pains him because it reminds him of what he used to be. 'You are never going to be able to replace that stage,' Rice says of his playing days.  'There is nothing higher than that. I still miss that. Sometimes I wake up and think I could still do it. Then reality comes in. 'I don't go as much to games. It is a little frustrating. They start to chant my name and it makes me want to get back on the football field. It's like when you walk into the stadium, the fans go crazy. That was something I was used to. I enjoyed that. It was a lot of fun. It's sort of hard. I go to certain games and I am always going to root for the team. 'I have always looked at football as being a sport for gladiators. Before Super Bowl XXIII against the Bengals, our coach Bill Walsh played a clip of the movie Gladiator where Russell Crowe's character says something about "the only way we survive this is if we stick together". Coach didn't say anything else. He just played that clip and he took the coaches and they all walked out. 'After they played that clip, the players just wanted to run through the wall. It was crazy. So it feels different when I go back and I'm not playing and I'm not a gladiator.  'It's like going back into the arena, man. I mean this arena brought you so much glory, so much excitement so it's a little hard when you start to chant my name because I really want to put that uniform back on again.' For a man like Rice, a man who prided himself on being able to play through pain to the point where he was able to perform even with a dislocated shoulder, the competitive urge never goes away but through it all he has retained a sense of humility. He was absurdly talented but, when asked what made him great, he will not deviate from the mantra that it was hard work. That is what he teaches the kids in Southgate, he says. There are no short cuts. He never took any so why should they? He even grows irritated when I point out that lots of players work hard but no one put up numbers like his. He thinks I'm trying to suggest that he thinks he is some way better than the rest.  Time and again, he says his gifts were effort and perseverance. 'If I can teach the kids here something on the football field that is going to benefit them and talk about stuff off the football field, too, then I will,' says Rice. 'They ask me how you deal with adversity and I am one of those guys that believes you are going to go through some obstacles but you are going to have to come up with some answers and you have to get up and start swinging. 'I think hard work is everything. If you don't put that time in, you don't have a chance. You have to be totally committed. It's about the love of the game, your commitment and your attention to detail. I was not the most gifted but I looked at my opponents and I said: 'I am going to outwork you'. That was the motivational edge I needed to try to be successful. 'Staying after practice, catching balls, when other players have gone inside. It's the commitment. I was able to endure a lot more pain than other players and I think it had a lot to do with my conditioning. 'You are not going to be healthy in football. You are never going to have that. And you still have to be able to perform at a very high level and not jeopardise the team if you are injured. My endurance and pain tolerance helped to make me into the person I am today.' Rice feels nostalgic sometimes for the way the game used to be. He is not a fan of instant replay, the NFL's version of VAR. 'I hate it,' he says. 'It slows down the game. It takes away the momentum. I liked it when you had that momentum going and you leave it up to the officials. You are making things complicated right now.' He is in favour of improved protection for players in an age when there is so much more awareness of the long-term damage repeated hits to the head, in particular, can cause. 'Back in the day it was totally different,' says Rice. 'When I played, if you could answer what you had for breakfast, you could go back on the field but it is totally different now, which is good. 'You can't use your helmet as a weapon any more. It is a much different game now.'  Rice keeps busy. He promotes an energy drink called G.O.A.T Fuel. He works for the NFL. He does some television work. He travels widely. He is prized as an ambassador for the sport. And he knows that the time has come when San Francisco is desperate for a new generation of heroes to take over from him and Montana. The 49ers are favourites to beat the Packers and advance to the Super Bowl in Miami in a fortnight when they would meet either the Tennessee Titans or the Kansas City Chiefs. Rice thinks that a team whose defence is healthy again after weeks struggling with injury can start to emulate the success his 49ers once achieved. 'When I first came into the league I noticed you win championships with defence,' he says. 'If you can stop someone, you know you have a chance where the offence can put points up. This 49ers team is at a good point. They control their own destiny and they have to continue to get better. 'You look at the stadium now and it is packed and there is energy. It would be a big win for the city. The players are a young group of guys and it is all about winning championships. Our legacy started at Candlestick Park. These guys can do the same thing at Levi's Stadium.' Jerry Rice is an ambassador for the NFL Academy, which offers life-changing opportunities through education and American football.   
