{ By Ieuan Ivett For Mailonline   Published:  13:48, 18 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7902083/VAR-farce-Michael-Oliver-stops-Watford-Spurs-three-half-minutes-replace-BATTERY.html }
There has been more VAR controversy in the Premier League after official Michael Oliver stopped the match between Watford and Tottenham for three-and-a-half minutes to replace his battery.  Oliver, one of the most experienced topflight referees, blew his whistle after a dangerous tackle from Watford's Etienne Capoue on Tottenham's Japhet Tanganga. The incident then went under review for a potential red card challenge, however, that was when the comedy of errors then began.  It appeared that Oliver was signalling that he could not hear anything from the VAR officials, who were based over in Stockley Park.  After trying to signal to his officiating team over the other side of the field that his battery had clearly gone flat, he decided to walk over to the touchline where a confused Jose Mourinho was in conversation with an official.  The tackle was deemed to not be a red card challenge, but little did Oliver know of that, as he removed his dead battery and waited for his fourth official to give him his one.  The fourth official - who comically tried to take his battery off his arm without removing his jacket - eventually got his pack and handed it to Oliver.  By this time, over two minutes had passed and fans at Vicarage Road had burst into chanting: 'It's not football anymore!' after the lengthy delay. After three-and-a-half minutes of waiting, the match finally resumed with a Spurs free kick but a sour taste was left among fans in the stadium and others watching at home.  To add insult to injury for the players and supporters, only two minutes were added on at the end of the half.  Ex-professional referee Peter Walton was bemused at half-time and said on BT Sport: 'I've got nowhere to go on this one, because that's a factual thing!  'It took over three minutes and we only got two. That's something the officials need to be looking at.' On the challenge that saw Capoue avoid a red, Walton said: 'It was completely missed (by Michael Oliver) otherwise he would have taken action.  'He's almost in a domino effect, he can't see what we can see from the side view. His feet are raised and it's a reckless challenge. Maybe the assistant could have helped him out with a better angle.  He added: 'It's madness in your eyes, but in terms of the law, we don't want VAR involved every time there's a potential yellow card. VAR is there to detect red cards.'    
