{ By Reuters   Published:  01:56, 18 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/reuters/article-7901377/notebook-Giants-reportedly-hire-Garrett-OC.html }
The New York Giants will hire former Dallas Cowboys head coach Jason Garrett as their offensive coordinator, several media outlets reported Friday. Garrett interviewed with new Giants head coach Joe Judge on Wednesday, a day after his contract with the Cowboys expired. Dallas opted not to renew Garrett's contract and hired veteran NFL coach Mike McCarthy to replace him. The 53-year-old Garrett had been on the Cowboys coaching staff since 2007 and spent seven years on the Dallas roster as a backup quarterback in the 1990s. He ended his playing career in 2000 with the Giants as a backup to Kerry Collins. Garrett was named interim head coach of the Cowboys eight games into the 2010 season, succeeding Wade Phillips, and took over on a permanent basis in 2011. He has an 85-67 career coaching record but a 2-3 mark in the playoffs. --Kansas City Chiefs defensive tackle Chris Jones and running back LeSean McCoy were listed as questionable for Sunday's AFC Championship Game against the visiting Tennessee Titans. Chiefs tight end Travis Kelce, who like Jones and McCoy was limited in Friday practice, was given no official injury-report designation for the game, but coach Andy Reid previously said he expects Kelce to play. Jones sustained a calf injury that kept him out of last week's divisional-round victory over the Houston Texans. McCoy and backup quarterback Matt Moore were listed as questionable as both have dealt with illnesses this week. --The Jacksonville Jaguars interviewed former Giants head coach Ben McAdoo for their open offensive coordinator position, according to a report by NFL Network's Ian Rapoport. McAdoo, who hasn't coached in the NFL since he was let go by the Giants in 2017, would fill the vacancy left by John DeFilippo, who was fired after one season in Jacksonville. Additionally, McAdoo has interviewed with the Carolina Panthers for an assistant coaching job under new head coach Matt Rhule, according to a report Thursday by The Athletic. McAdoo, 42, spent two years as offensive coordinator for the Giants before being promoted to head coach in 2016, succeeding Tom Coughlin. The Giants were 2-10 when he was fired with four games left to go in the 2017 season. He posted a 13-15 record over his nearly two full seasons in New York and might be best known for benching quarterback Eli Manning in favor of Geno Smith during the 2017 season. --Arizona Cardinals quarterback Kyler Murray still has aspirations to play baseball. Murray, in fact, would like to play professional football and baseball at the same time -- just not right now. "I think I could," the 22-year-old Murray told the Arizona Republic of being a two-sport star. "Athletically, I think, yeah, I could do it. I've been playing both my whole life. I would love to add that to the resume." The former Heisman Trophy recipient became the first person in history to be selected in the first round of both the NFL and MLB drafts when the Cardinals chose him with the top overall pick in 2019. The Oakland Athletics selected Murray with the No. 9 overall pick in the 2018 baseball draft, and the team allowed him to play one final season of college football at Oklahoma. --Field Level Media 
