sport football
{ By Matt Hughes For The Daily Mail   Published:  00:00, 18 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-7900409/AHEAD-GAME-FA-asked-Joe-Gomez-wanted-report-Raheem-Sterling-incident-police-clash-St-Georges-Park.html }
Joe Gomez was asked by the Football Association if he wanted to report Raheem Sterling to the police following their infamous clash in the England players' canteen at St George's Park last November. Gomez was left with a scratch below his right eye after Sterling attacked his team-mate by putting him in a headlock when they met up for international duty. It happened the day after Liverpool's explosive 3-1 Premier League victory over Manchester City at Anfield, and was exclusively revealed by Sportsmail. The FA took the incident so seriously that they asked the Liverpool defender whether he wanted to press charges. Gomez quickly rejected that offer and made his peace with Sterling within a matter of hours, accepting his apology and giving his blessing to manager Gareth Southgate's decision that the Manchester City forward should be able to stay with the squad. Sterling was dropped by Southgate from England's matchday squad for the European Championship qualifier against Montenegro at Wembley, with Gomez booed by a small section of the home fans when he was introduced as a second-half substitute. England to use own facilities at Euro 2020 despite cost The decision by Gareth Southgate to base England at St George's Park throughout the duration of Euro 2020 will hit the FA as UEFA are unwilling to pay for the squad's stay.  As tournament organisers, UEFA cover the costs of competing nations who stay at their officially sanctioned hotels, but with all three of their group games and a possible semi-final and final at Wembley, the FA have opted to use their own facilities irrespective of the cost.  Late starts see bookies cash in  Betting companies have booked up a number of half-time advertising slots during three Premier League matches to be screened by BT Sport next week despite the so-called whistle-to-whistle ban. Sportsmail revealed this week that gambling firms are targeting ad breaks before the second half of matches that kick off at 8pm. Their adverts can be shown as half-time runs past the 9pm watershed for those fixtures, a loophole in the ban that will be fully exploited next week. BT Sport have the rights to show all 10 midweek Premier League matches, as Amazon Prime did for a midweek round last month, so several games will kick off later than usual. Chelsea vs Arsenal and Manchester United vs Burnley kick off at 8.15pm on Tuesday and Wednesday respectively, and Liverpool vs Wolves will start at 8pm on Thursday, with the bookmakers planning to cash in. Birmingham able to claim travel expenses for St Andrew's clash Birmingham City will be able to claim travel expenses for completing a short coach trip to their own stadium when they meet Coventry City at St Andrew's in the FA Cup a week on Saturday. The Blues have been drawn as the away team in the fourth round but the tie will take place at their own ground, where Coventry are tenants this season following a dispute with rugby union club Wasps over playing at the Ricoh Arena. Under FA rules, all gate receipts are split 50/50 between the clubs so Birmingham will not lose out from being the away team, and they will also be able to claim petrol money.  Premier League's Euro hope  Premier League clubs hope that UEFA's unexpectedly lucrative sale of Champions League rights for the 2021-24 cycle will lessen the demands from their European counterparts for a dramatic reform of the competition from 2024 onwards.  European clubs such as Juventus and Real Madrid want extra games to boost the value of TV rights, but UEFA's media sales team have outperformed expectations in the current tender, achieving record deals in the United States and France and maintaining the value of the UK contract with BT Sport.  The Premier League will argue that such record figures show the Champions League does not require major reform when the issue is next discussed ahead of the UEFA Congress in March.   
