{ By Peter Robertson For Weekend Magazine   Published:  22:31, 17 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7887123/Susannah-Constantine-57-sitting-room-West-Sussex-Home.html }
1. Canine Companions I've had dogs all my life. My best one was Archie, a mongrel I rescued from Battersea Dogs Home in 1992 – my husband Sten gave me this painting of him for my 40th birthday. Our family dog now is Fern, a Parson Russell terrier. Rocco, the feisty Italian greyhound with one brain cell sitting with her on the sofa [Fern is on the right] is my daughter Cece's dog.  They go running with me, as do our two cats! We're privileged to live in a house with 127 acres, but it needs a lot of upkeep so we won't be able to afford to live here for the rest of our lives. 2. Good Sports This is a collection of medals won by our sporty kids, especially Esme, who's annoyingly good at every sport and so determined.  When she was nine, we smuggled her into a BUPA 10k run for which the entry age was 16, and she ended up its fastest female under 24.  She loved running but as soon as she realised she had to train, that was it.  Now 18, she is at Loughborough University where she plays lacrosse.  Cece, who is 16 and at Benenden school in Kent, is great at netball.  Joe, 21, is at Newcastle University and is good at rugby, skiing and football.    3. Best Face Forward  Recently I was having problems with my eyes and it turned out I had cataracts.  These glasses were made bespoke for me and cost nearly as much as my wedding dress but are a great investment.  Elton John said they were stunning – a big compliment from a man known for his specs. Also, after a lifetime of hating my teeth I finally had them fixed by Dr Uchenna Okoye at the London Smiling clinic – I call her the Tooth Fairy! 4. Naked Ambition I met Trinny Woodall – with whom I presented What Not To Wear from 2001-2005 – at a dinner party decades ago.  We're opposites in every way but have an incredible bond. This photo of us was from our 2007 ITV series Trinny & Susannah Undress The Nation.  That show was the death of our career because it was crass and not done with the empathy that had made us successful.  We won't work together again but we speak all the time.   5. Paperback Writer  My sister, Annette, is six years my senior so I felt like an only child growing up. Our mother wasn't well and I was quite isolated most of the time, so I read constantly. I'm currently reading Me, the autobiography of Elton John, an old friend and my kids' godfather. I didn't do that well at school or go to university – instead I studied sculpture at art school – so reading taught me to write.  My first novel, After The Snow, sold 50,000 copies; my second is out next month. 6. Lady of the Rings My great-grandfather's signet ring was handed down to my grandfather, my father and then to me.  My father Joe, a businessman, died from an aneurysm on the same day as Princess Diana, and I've never taken the ring off since.  I also wear my wedding ring, and the wedding ring of my mother Mary Rose, who died a year after we moved into this house.  One day my son will inherit my signet ring.  It's sad my father never met my children nor saw this house. He was a good artist and could have been a great help with the interiors. 
