{ By Derek Lawrenson for the Daily Mail   Published:  22:30, 17 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/golf/article-7900559/Matt-Fitzpatrick-continues-prove-no-lightweight-opening-rounds-Abu-Dhabi-Championship.html }
Matt Fitzpatrick is the 11-stone sapling punching well above his weight in a sport increasingly populated by the muscle-bound. For the first two days at the Abu Dhabi HSBC Championship, the Englishman played alongside American Bryson DeChambeau, who has put on 30lb in an effort to keep up with the power-hitters. The leading attraction here is Mr Beefcake himself, world No 1 Brooks Koepka, who weighs in at more than 14st. 'I tried to do more in the gym over the winter but it's impossible for me to put on weight,' said a grinning Fitzpatrick. He might be slight of frame, but no one boasted better all-round stats on the European Tour last year and he has continued in the same impressive fashion over the first two rounds here. So, while DeChambeau hit it miles but frequently in the wrong direction to miss the halfway cut and Koepka stumbled to an error-strewn 75, Fitzpatrick followed up his first-round 68 with a 67 to be bogey-free and just one shot off the halfway leader, Italian Francesco Laporta. The refreshingly swift Fitzpatrick is also revelling in the new pace-of-play rules that have shaved about 20 minutes off times over the first two rounds. Even his notoriously slow-playing partner got a move on. DeChambeau was quick on the course and even quicker leaving it, brushing aside all requests for comment. 'We were under four and a half hours and I can't remember when it was that quick for a threeball,' said Fitzpatrick. 'If you're playing at a quicker pace you've got less time to think while you're waiting to play a shot. The last thing you want when you're playing well is too much time to think.' The Sheffield star has a head full of dreams going into the new season and top of the list is winning a major. He was back at his hotel as the wind picked up and Koepka was one of those blown off course. After no bogeys on day one, he had four sixes on Friday. 'No injury, no rust, no excuses - just me, bud,' said Koepka.   
