sport football
{ By Niomi Harris For Mailonline   Published:  18:34, 17 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7900283/Kate-Moss-daughter-Lila-Grace-join-Beckhams-star-studded-row-Dior-show.html }
She's a world-renowned model with a catwalk career spanning 30 years. But Kate Moss looked happy to be watching on the sidelines as she and daughter Lila Grace Moss Hack put on a stylish display while watching the Dior Homme Menswear Fall/Winter 2020-2021 show in Paris, France on Friday. Kate, 46 and 17-year-old Lila were joined by David, Victoria and Brooklyn Beckham on the very star-studded front row amid Paris Fashion Week. The mother and daughter duo looked relaxed and happy as they took in the show, sporting very chic ensembles as they did so. Proving why she's still at the top of her game, Kate looked flawless in a crisp white shirt, paired with a black blazer.  She teamed this with sleek black leggings and a pair of black ankle boots stutted with buttons.   The Croydon native allowed her natural beauty to shine through by donning a very light palette of make-up for the ocassion, while she let her blonde tresses hang loose. Meanwhile, Lila opted for a more casual look in a pale grey patterned shirt and dark, freyed jeans which she wore grey and white lace-up trainers. The teen looked very much like her famous mother, sporting long, blonde locks and a sleek but subtle layer of make-up. The pair looked close as they sat together at the show, chatting and giggling away throughout.  Kate's boyfriend Count Nikolai Von Bismarck was also in attendance. The pair were in good company at the show, as they sat alongside model Cara Delevingne, 27. Cara was in very animated spirits as she cosied up to Kate, with the two seen laughing and giggling together. The model looked sensational as she showed off her washboard abs by opting to forgo a shirt and just wear a semi-sheer bra underneath a sleek grey blazer. She complemented her ensemble by wearing a pair of loose-fitting slacks, that she paired with sturdy black boots for an androgynous chic look. Adding a touch of glitter to her outfit, Cara accessorised with a green jewel necklace that fell over her slender torso, while she also wore a gold hand chain bracelet. The model wore her brunette locks in a slick gelled-down ponytail that was held in place with an elaborate feather hair-tie, while she wore a light palette of make-up to accentuate her pretty features. Further lighting up the front row in Paris was the Beckham clan, consisting of  matriarch Victoria, 45, husband David, 44, and their eldest son Brooklyn, 20. As expected by the fashion designer, Victoria look typically stylish as she paired a scarf neck blouse that she tucked into a pair of bottle-green high waist fitted trousers from her bespoke label's pre Autumn/Winter 2020 collection. The former Spice Girl showed off her keen eye for fashion as she cinched her outfit at the waist with a red belt that had a gold swan buckle.  David meanwhile was his usual dapper self in a black blazer and trousers, teamed with a white shirt. Meanwhile, Brooklyn opted for a more cosier ensemble, donning a chunky, cream cable-knit cardigan. The aspiring photographer looked chilled as she squeezed himself in between his parents on the front row.  Other stars taking in Dior's latest collection included actor Robert Pattison, 33, who wowed in a black leather jacket.  The Twilight star appeared in a cheerful mood as he sat alongside Cara at the event.  The duo also posed up a storm alongside Kylie Jenner's ex and rapper Tyga, 30.   Also turning up to enjoy the show was model Bella Hadid where she showcased her new fringed hairstyle.  The supermodel, 23, looked sizzling as she sported a bouncy 60s-inspired hairdo with a short fringe as she headed out in the City of Lights.  Opting for an opulent ensemble, she donned a black sweater paired with a three-quarter-length black velvet coat with leather lapels. Drawing the eye to her honed legs, she slipped on wet look trousers and chunky black trainers. The star brought some sparkle to her look with crushed velvet silver gloves, which she showed off as she waved at fans. Her pretty features were enhanced with a radiant palette of make-up. Fashion designer Lulu Kennedy, 51, also stepped out for the star-studded show.  The founder of Fashion East & MAN looked smart in an all black outfit, of which she broke up with baby pink slouchy boots.  Meanwhile, Sadie Frost and her boyfriend Darren Strowger looked happier than ever as they cosied up together at the show. Kate Moss' BFF looked glam in a loose-fitting black dress, which she paired with black boots.  The designer added a slick of shimmering make-up to her look, while she added a touch of bling with pretty gold pendants.  Courtney Love was also in attendance, donning a shimmering grey satin shirt and black trousers. There, she posed alongside Jordan Barrett, who cut a smart figure in a black ensemble.  Actor Douglas Booth looked in high spirits as he enjoyed the show. He sat alongside model Adwoa Aboah and Noomi Rapace at the event.  Upping the A-list glamour was actress Christina Ricci, who put on a flawless display as she posed for snaps at the show. The actress, 39, showcased her fashion prowess as she sported a midnight blue trouser suit. The Casper star boosted her height with a pair of pointed navy heels, while she drew the eye with a quirky silver necklace.  Christina styled her brunette tresses in loose waves, while she added a shimmering palette of make-up to her face.  Actress Noomi Rapace also upped the glamour as she sported a pale pink coat teamed with an ivory two-piece.   Once the fashion show came to an end, many stars decided to let their hair down at the Dior Perfume Dinner, which took place at the Caviar Kaspia eatery in the stunning French city. Kate looked as stylish as ever as she brought her daughter into the party, while Courtney continued to sport her stylist grey ensemble. Inside the dinner Kate and her daughter even got a snap with Bella, after they were all spotted in attendance for the fashion show. After the fashion show, the stars were also seen exiting the venue in Paris, with Courtney leading the way alongside Suki, who opted to exit solo. Her beau and rumoured fiancé Robert Pattinson followed close behind in a casual black ensemble and matching leather jacket. Cara also continued to flash the flesh in her perilously plunging grey trouser suit which flashed plenty of her black bra. The stars were spotted leaving the party having attended the Dior Homme Menswear Autumn/Winter 2020-2021 show earlier in the evening. The show seemed to be driven by muted grey and black tones, and along with plenty of tailoring the models donned oversized silks and furs, with cheeky pops of colour from statement accessories. It came just two days before Men's Paris Fashion Week comes to a close, with designers including Lanvin, Hermés and Paul Smith still set to showcase their latest looks.    
