{ By Press Association   Published:  14:26, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/pa/article-8029315/Flooded-non-league-football-plea-big-clubs-help-repair-bills.html }
The chairman of a non-league side has bemoaned the lack of support from teams higher up the football pyramid after storm damage left his club facing five-figure bills. Andy Charlesworth is chairman at Tadcaster Albion, an eighth-tier side from North Yorkshire which saw its ground heavily flooded following Storm Ciara and Storm Dennis. The club is attempting to raise £12,000 itself to pay for repairs via their JustGiving page, and have been visited by the Football Foundation with a view to obtaining the remaining money required. The Premier League is one of the partners behind the Football Foundation, a charity that has supported grassroots sport projects and more since it was launched in 2000. While the help will go a long way to getting clubs like Tadcaster back on their feet, Mr Charlesworth believes a gesture of goodwill from a top-tier player could see the rest of their fundraising efforts over the line. “We could do with a Premier League player donating a week’s wages, that would realistically just sort us out,” Mr Charlesworth told the PA news agency. “But typically of the larger clubs, we’ve had no feedback. It seems to be that the non-league family are looking after ourselves.” Tadcaster’s pitch and facilities were flooded more than a week ago before Storm Dennis brought more water. The result is a clubhouse that needs significant repair work and a pitch that has taken days to get rid of standing water. Support at a local level has been evident, with a bucket collection due to take place at Ashton United’s game against Hyde United on Friday night, while a departing Tadcaster player donated his February wages to the cause. Mr Charlesworth has broadcast his club’s difficulties to sides higher up the football pyramid, but said it appears non-league clubs are being left to look after themselves by bigger sides. “There’s so much money in the Premier League, and I would say the Championship as well, we’re not asking for much,” he said. “Even if they just did a bucket collection. If there’s 30,000 people going to a game, and they all chipped a pound in, it’s not really much, is it?” A “big clean-up” at the club is taking place on Friday afternoon, with volunteers in the shape of retirees giving their time to the cause. “Maybe it’ll shame some of the Premier League players!” said Mr Charlesworth. 
