sport football
{ By James Gant For Mailonline   Published:  10:37, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/mma/article-8028385/Conor-McGregors-coach-says-incredibly-proud-Irishmans-comeback.html }
Conor McGregor's coach has said he is 'incredibly proud' of the Irishman's comeback and hailed him as single-handedly making the UFC mainstream. John Kavanagh revealed he even has 60-year-old women asking how the Dubliner's training is going. The 31-year-old fighter has been embroiled in a string of controversies, including being hit with a driving ban for speeding in 2018 and slapped with a €1000 fine after assaulting a man in Dublin in November. But he returned to the Octagon in January after a year and knocked out American Donald Cerrone in the first round. Mr Kavanagh, 43, told RTE: 'I'm incredibly proud of Conor. I realise it was him individually who has made the sport so well-known. 'I get stopped by 60-year-old ladies asking me how his wrestling training is coming along.' He said: 'He's spoken himself about his slips and his mistakes. He's had to pay for those outside of the sport.' The coach added McGregor has owned up to them and that he has his support in trying to make himself a better person.  Welterweight:  Nate Diaz, Jorge Masvidal, Kamaru Usman Lightweight:  Khabib Nurmagomedov, Tony Ferguson, Justin Gaethje, Dustin Poirier, Nate Diaz Featherweight:  Alexander Volkanovski, Max Holloway  The comments come after UFC president Dana White said McGregor is 'focused on fighting Khabib Nurmagomedov next'. There was speculation of a third bout with Nate Diaz, particularly with Khabib otherwise engaged and defending the lightweight title against Tony Ferguson in April. But it seems the Irishman only has eyes for the Russian, who comprehensively defeated him back in 2018.  White told BT Sport: 'I don't know [about a third fight with Diaz being next]. He's focused on Khabib. He wants the Khabib fight.' McGregor has frequently stated his desire to treat this year as a 'season' and keep busy with three or four fights before 2021. But White believes he'll remain sidelined until Khabib is available to take him on in a rematch, providing he finds a way past Ferguson.  When asked if he believes McGregor will bide his time, White added: 'I do. But you never know with him. We'll see. 'But I have no answers for you right now about him. I mean he really just fought, do you know what I mean? And he's not watching Khabib and Tony to see what happens.' Despite McGregor's clear desire to prove himself against the undefeated Dagestani champion, Khabib is unwavering in his refusal to take the rematch.  He wants the Dubliner to earn a shot at him and will not be tempted by the massive payday that would be on offer.    'I'm surprised that people even question me about a rematch,' he said recently. 'I did everything I wanted to him, he even gave up.  'How can we even discuss a rematch? 'Everyone saw what happened in the octagon [versus McGregor]. I controlled the fight every step of the way.  'I did everything I wanted to him, he even gave up. How can we even discuss a rematch? We are only talking about continuing the festivities and making money.' When probed again about whether he was interested in the second fight with McGregor he said: 'Not at all,' before a reporter interjected: 'What about for $100million?' 'Why do I need that kind of money,' Khabib added. 'There are so many organisations for example. There's not only football for the blind, there's sambo, other sports.  'Let the UFC give it to them if they don't know what to do with the money. But giving me $100m to beat up that idiot again? I don't think that's rational.'       
