sport football
{ By Luke Augustus for MailOnline    Published:  07:31, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8028061/Chris-Smalling-eyes-spot-England-Euro-2020-squad-despite-not-winning-cap-2017.html }
Chris Smalling has outlined his desire to win a place in Gareth Southgate's England squad, despite not having been capped for his country since 2017. The 30-year-old is enjoying a return to form on loan at Roma - with the Manchester United defender very open to turning that move into a permanent one in the summer too. Smalling has been a virtual ever-present for Roma this season making 25 appearances - including helping them keep a clean sheet on Thursday in a 1-0 win over Belgian side Gent in the Europa League last-32 first leg. His displays have drawn the attention of England manager Southgate and his coaching staff who have visited the Italian capital to watch him in action during this campaign. Smalling's 31st and last England cap to date came in a 2-2 draw with Scotland on June 10, 2017 - in what was a 2018 World Cup qualifier - but he is hoping to end that exile soon. 'Obviously it's been a couple of years now, but that ambition is always there with England,' he told BBC Sport. 'I know that Gareth and the coaching staff have been to a few of my games over here and I guess you know you are in their thoughts if you are playing at a top club. 'I hold those aspirations, and I just try to focus on here and what comes, comes. But I would very much like to be part of [the Euros], for sure.' England's next game is a friendly against Italy at Wembley on March 27, with their Euro 2020 opener against Croatia on June 14. In the summer Smalling will have a decision to make about his future too, with him currently set to return to his parent club United. However, the centre back says he and his family are settled in Rome as they have immersed themselves in the culture and language. 'Yeah, I think the plan at the start of the season was to contribute as much as I can and then hopefully if we've all had a good season and hit our ambitions then those discussions can take place,' he added.  'Coming over here and trying to hit ground running with football was the priority. But my family settling in and me learning the language and enjoying the culture, it's something you need to make the most of. My family and I definitely are.'  
