{ By Bryony Jewell For Mailonline   Published:  00:15, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8026181/Ugo-Monye-channels-Star-Trek-Joe-Cole-auditions-Peaky-Blinder-hilarious-new-advert.html }
They're all stars of the presenting world. And BT Sports pundits Jake Humphrey, Lynsey Hipgrave, Ugo Monye, Jermaine Jenas and Joe Cole have hilariously 'auditioned' for a new TV trailer. Transforming into characters from their favourite TV shows - with Joe channeling the Peaky Blinders - they try to steer away from sport, but have a little trouble leaving behind their beloved commentary. Despite the wealth of talent on display, it’s clear not all BT Sport’s stars are suited to their new acting roles.  Ugo Monye rises to the occasion in his Star Trek inspired scenes, saying: 'captain to bridge, beam me up'. The rugby pro raises his arms high, but is quickly told to cut by the advert's director. Another funny clip shows two helpers struggling to lift him off the ground. However there’s a glimmer of hope as former England and Aston Villa attacking midfielder Joe Cole plays a Peaky Blinder. He settles into his role as a Birmingham gangster, wearing his flat cap with pride, but ultimately, he can’t stay away from what he does best -talking about the beautiful game. After his lines, and getting some praise for staying in character unlike his fellow pundits, Joe dashes his chances by saying: 'Talking about Birmingham, quite fancy Villa to stay up at the moment.'  The ad also shows Jake Humphrey trying to shoot footage of polar bears in the wilds of arctic Norway, but shivering and complaining about the cold. Jermaine Jenas shows his love for The Grand Tour but is seen a little baffled when its revealed the spoof ad is being filmed with a green screen and there's not a real car. The clip later reveals him acting with a mini motor, leaving him a little disappointed, and taking up the issue with the frustrated director. Lynsey Hipgrave also takes a break from presenting to try her hand at stand-up comedy, just like The Marvellous Mrs Maisel, in full 1950s glamour.  When directed to tell a joke, she says: 'Could do stand up commentary? like, it's still all to play for here in the second half as United look for the..'   The advert was released to celebrate BT's launch today of its new range of flexible TV packages. Viewers can enjoy all their favourite shows without the BT Sport’s expert pundits’ attempts at stardom, with the new 24-month flexible TV packages. These offer customers the freedom to choose the TV shows, films and sport they want – with the option to change their package every month.  As new research reveals the average adult spends seven minutes searching across different TV channels and services for their favourite shows, BT TV’s new service makes finding and watching the best programming simple.  Customers can watch Sky Atlantic, hundreds of box sets, the latest movies and live sporting action on Sky Sports all from NOW TV, BT Sport in 4K, Amazon Prime Video and Netflix in 4K – with integrated search, all in one place.  The new 24-month flexible TV packages and content add-ons are available now and are created to help customers choose the right TV line-up for their needs.  Package prices start at £10 a month and customers have the flexibility to upgrade, downgrade, and add their favourite services month-to-month.  
