{ By Nick Suarez For Mailonline   Published:  15:43, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//galleries/article-8025213/15-celebrities-married-famous-athletes.html }
They say that opposites attract - but when the worlds of celebrity and sports collide, fame can create the ultimate power couple. From Posh and Becks to Gisele and Tom, here are the celebrities who have married famous athletes... VICTORIA AND DAVID BECKHAM: It was love at first sight for Victoria and David Beckham when they first met at a charity game in 1997. Victoria was one-fifth of one of the most recognizable girl bands in the world, the Spice Girls, while David had just broken into super-stardom as a Manchester United soccer player. They married in 1999 - fast-forward to today and Posh and Becks are still going strong, with four children - Brooklyn, Romeo, Cruz and Harper. SHAKIRA AND GERARD PIQUE: Colombian superstar Shakira met Barcelona soccer player Piqué at the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa (Shakira sang the official song, and Piqué was part of the Spain team which went on to win the tournament). The couple share the same birthday, although the Hips Don’t Lie singer is exactly ten years Piqué’s senior. They have been in a relationship since 2011 and have two children together. GISELE BÜNDCHEN AND TOM BRADY: New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady has six Super Bowl titles to his name - and since their marriage in April 2009, he has also had a Brazilian supermodel on his arm, Gisele Bündchen. Their marriage has gone from strength to strength, and supportive Gisele is regularly seen in the stands cheering on her NFL star husband. The couple welcomed son Benjamin in December 2009, and their daughter Vivian was born three years later. GABRIELLE UNION AND DWYANE WADE: Bring It On star Gabrielle Union and former Miami Heat basketballer Dwyane Wade began dating in 2009, and married in August 2014, after Wade recruited his sons to assist with the proposal. Before she walked down the aisle with the NBA star, Gabrielle Union had been married to another athlete - NFL player Chris Howard, who she wed in 2001 and divorced in 2006. RUSSEL WILSON AND CIARA: R&B star Ciara and Seattle Seahawks quarterback Russell Wilson began dating in early 2015 after both getting out of serious relationships, and went official when they attended the White House’s Japanese state dinner together. They married in July 2016 at Peckforton Castle in Cheshire, England, and announced their pregnancy just a few months later. The couple are currently expecting their second child. ANDY RODDICK AND BROOKLYN DECKER: Former World Number One tennis player Andy Roddick and swimwear model and actress Brooklyn Decker began dating in 2007, and were married just two years later in Texas. Their first child, Hank, was born in September 2015, and their daughter Stevie was born in January 2018. ANNA KOURNIKOVA AND ENRIQUE IGLESIAS: Former World Number One doubles tennis player Anna Kournikova first met pop star Enrique Iglesias in late 2001, on the set of his Escape music video. Iglesias said of the Russian tennis star: ‘She's beautiful, talented, a great tennis player. It doesn't take a good actor to kiss Anna and try to make it believable’. The couple have repeatedly refused to confirm or deny the status of their relationship, but they have just welcomed a baby girl - their third child together. JAY CUTLER AND KRISTIN CAVALLARI: Former NFL star Jay Cutler walked down the aisle with reality TV star and entrepreneur Kristin Cavallari in June 2013. The Hills star began dating the then-Chicago Bears quarterback in late 2010, and they became engaged in April 2011. The couple have three children: sons Camden Jack and Jaxon Wyatt, and daughter Saylor James. JESSICA SIMPSON AND ERIC JOHNSON: Former NFL player Eric Johnson and singer Jessica Simpson met back in 2010, and were spotted kissing on a yacht in Capri over Simpson’s 30th birthday weekend. The couple married in 2014 and have three children together - the singer has also revealed that Johnson ‘gave up drinking’ to help her when she ‘hit rock bottom’ in 2017. NNAMDI ASOMUGHA AND KERRY WASHINGTON: Scandal actress Kerry Washington and NFL star Nnamdi Asomugha kept their relationship quiet before they secretly tied the knot in Idaho in 2013, after reportedly meeting after Kerry’s performance of Race on Broadway. The couple have a daughter and a son together. KATE UPTON AND JUSTIN VERLANDER: Houston Astros pitcher Justin Verlander met supermodel Kate Upton back in 2014, and popped the question in 2016. Two days after he won the World Series with the Astros in 2017, the two married in a medieval church in Tuscany, Italy. They announced that Kate was pregnant with their first child in July 2018, and the couple had a daughter, Genevieve, later that year. CARRIE UNDERWOOD AND MIKE FISHER: Country singer Carrie Underwood and her Canadian pro hockey player husband Mike Fisher met in 2008, during a meet-and-greet session backstage at one of Underwood’s concerts after one of the singer’s bassists set them up. The couple tied the knot in Georgia in 2010. DION PHANEUF AND ELISHA CUTHBERT: Canadian NHL player Dion Phaneuf and The Girl Next Door star Elisha Cuthbert announced their engagement in September 2012, and married on July 6, 2013, at St. James Catholic Church in Summerfield, Prince Edward Island. Cuthbert gave birth to their first child, a daughter, in 2017. ERIC DECKER AND JESSIE JAMES: NFL star Eric Decker and country singer Jessie James married in June 2013, with the couple's reality series, Eric & Jessie: Game On, documenting the preparation leading up to their wedding. Decker gave birth to the couple’s daughter, Vivianne Rose, in March 2014, and their second child, Eric Thomas II, in September 2015. Their third child, Forrest Bradley, was born three years later. RYAN MILLER AND NOUREEN DEWULF: NHL goalie Ryan Miller and Anger Management star Noureen Dewulf announced their engagement in 2010, and the couple wed in September 2011 - the first two seasons of reality TV show Hockey Wives chronicled their married lives. The pair have a son, Bodhi Ryan, who was born in 2015. 
