{ By Kieran Jackson For Mailonline   Published:  10:20, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8024097/Lionel-Messi-pulls-strings-Mo-Salah-plays-tricks-Paul-Pogba-latest-Pepsi-advert.html }
Lionel Messi, Mohamed Salah, Paul Pogba and Raheem Sterling all feature in a comical new Pepsi MAX advert.  The four stars of world football, who all have endorsement deals with the fizzy drinks company, appear in the new commercial with all the players stealing the Pepsi Max can off one another.  One of the most amusing segments is when a disguised Salah poses for a selfie with Pogba, before nicking the drink and revealing his true form to the cameras.  SCROLL DOWN FOR VIDEO The advert was released on Thursday morning and comes at a time when all four players are in varying form and fitness.  Barcelona captain Messi is as ever having a productive individual season - he has scored 19 goals in 27 games in all competitions.  However, Barca sacked manager Ernesto Valverde last month, replacing him with Quique Setien, and are one point behind rivals Real Madrid in the La Liga table with 14 games to go.  For Salah and Liverpool, they're cruising towards their first Premier League title but did come unstuck against Atletico Madrid in the Champions League on Tuesday night.  The Reds lost 1-0 at the Wanda Metropolitano and Salah was substituted after 72 minutes. That being said, the Egyptian is Liverpool's top scorer this season with 18 goals and will no doubt play a central role in the return leg at Anfield on March 11.  United midfielder Pogba is currently injured, and has only played twice since September due to problems with his ankle. And on Wednesday, United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer confirmed the World Cup winner was not close to returning to first-team training. 'He's not been part of team training yet and it will depend on how he feels when he's ready to do that. He's not anywhere near that yet.'  Meanwhile, Sterling missed Manchester City's 2-0 win against West Ham on Wednesday night due to a hamstring injury, though he is expected to return within the next two weeks.  City played for the first time since their two-year Champions League ban was announced by UEFA last Friday, though the club have denied any wrongdoing and are appealing the suspension to the Court of Arbitration for Sport.      
