{ By Charlie Coë For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  05:17, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8040549/Australian-athletes-PULLED-Tokyo-Olympics-coronavirus.html }
Australia's federal sports minister says the nation's athletes could be pulled out of the Tokyo Olympics in July as the coronavirus continues to spread globally. The virus has killed more than 2,200 people worldwide and infected 80,000, including 690 passengers on the Diamond Princess cruise ship which has been quarantined for two weeks in the Japanese city of Yokohama. As the spread of the deadly COVID-19 threatens to turn into a pandemic, sports minister Richard Colbeck has not ruled out withdrawing Australian athletes from the 2020 games.   'Australian athletes are ready to make their mark at the Tokyo Olympics - but it should not be at the risk of their health and well-being,' Colbeck said. 'We continue to work with the relevant authorities both here and overseas to ensure our athletes remain safe and protected as the response to the coronavirus continues.' Australian athletes can also choose on an individual basis whether to compete in Tokyo. The government's chief medical officer Professor Brendan Murphy said it was unclear how safe Japan would be for those travelling to the Games at this stage.  'We still haven't seen the full impact of the Diamond Princess outbreak - we're making a daily evaluation of the effects,' he said.  The worrying government comments follow Australian Olympic Committee president John Coates saying last week that organisers found no case for postponing or cancelling the Games. In the past week, it emerged seven people had died and 229 are infected after an outbreak of the virus in Italy.  A seventh person was also confirmed on Tuesday to have tested positive for the coronavirus in Victoria.   A third passenger from the Diamond Princess cruise ship has tested positive for COVID-19 bringing the state's total number of cases to seven, the state's chief health officer Brett Sutton confirmed. The trio were repatriated to Victoria and are recovering in isolation. Four people who previously tested positive for the virus in Victoria have recovered, the state's health department said. NEW SOUTH WALES: 4   January 25 January 27  VICTORIA: 6 January 25 January 29 January 30 February 1  February 22   QUEENSLAND: 8 January 29 January 30 February 4 February 5   February 6 SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 3 February 1 WESTERN AUSTRALIA: 1 February 21   JAPAN: 15     
