{ By Kathryn Batte For Mailonline   Published:  22:53, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8022441/Tottenham-performance-defeat-Leipzig-slammed-BT-Sport-pundits-Ferdinand-Hoddle-Crouch.html }
Tottenham's performance against RB Leipzig has been heavily criticised by the BT Sport pundits after Jose Mourinho's side were beaten 1-0. The Germans took the lead in the second half after they were awarded a penalty when Ben Davies brought down Konrad Laimer. Timo Werner stepped up to dispatch his spot-kick past Hugo Lloris and, in the absence of Harry Kane and Son Heung-min, Spurs were unable to find an equaliser. But their overall performance in the tie was heavily criticised by pundits Rio Ferdinand, Glenn Hoddle and Peter Crouch at full-time.   Former Manchester United defender Ferdinand claimed Spurs looked like the away side while Hoddle said Leipzig were 'by far the better side'. Crouch also voiced his concerns regarding their display. 'Leipzig could’ve been out of sight in the first half,' claimed Crouch. 'There was a slight improvement from spurs but they were never in it. The back three were quite comfortable and Leipzig seemed happy to take their 1-0.  'There needs to be big changes for the second leg.' Ferdinand added that Mourinho will have to change his system for the trip to the Red Bull Arena. 'In the midfield they need three, or else they’ll get outnumbered week in week out,' he said.  'Better players with better strikers will crucify you.' Leipzig enjoyed more possession than their opponents despite being the away side and Hoddle expressed his worry for Mourinho's team in the second leg. 'I am concerned because I don’t see a team that looks like they know what they’re doing.  'I think playing 4-4-2 with straight lines, there’s nothing wrong with it if you’re making triangles and playing off the lines but they were hoping for things to happen.  'You look at Leipzig they knew what to do in both defence and attack. They were far the better side.' Spurs will look to overturn their deficit when they travel to Germany on March 1  
