sport football
{ By Jack Gaughan for the Daily Mail   Published:  22:20, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8022091/Manchester-Citys-UEFA-ban-frozen-CAS-oversee-appeal.html }
Manchester City can apply to freeze their two-year Champions League ban - but prefer a resolution before the summer. Sports lawyers revealed on Wednesday that City can ask to have the suspension halted while the Court of Arbitration for Sport hears their appeal. Chief executive Ferran Soriano maintained that the Premier League champions are innocent following UEFA's punishment and wants their name cleared before next season. 'The allegations are not true. They are simply not true,' Soriano said. 'My best hope is that this will be finished before the beginning of the summer.' Leading Sports Law Barrister, John Mehrzad, predicted that 'it is very likely indeed, practically certain, that City will seek "provisional measures" from the CAS'.  The Champions League expulsion also came with a £25million fine after accusations of 'serious breaches' of UEFA's Financial Fair Play regulations between 2012-16.  Soriano added: 'The owner has not put money in this club that has not been properly declared.  'We are a sustainable football club, we are profitable, we don't have debt, our accounts have been scrutinised many times, by auditors, by regulators, by investors and this is perfectly clear.'  Pep Guardiola, meanwhile, insisted that his side would be playing in the Champions League next season after Wednesday night's 2-0 win over West Ham. 'I'm confident that we'll play in Europe next season. I'm pretty sure we'll defend our position,' Guardiola said before confirming he will remain as manager. 'If they don't sack me, I will stay here more than ever. I want to stay longer than the contract that I have. I want to help the club grow and maintain this level for as long as possible. Why should I leave? 'It's not finished, it's not over. You fight no matter what and the club is going to do that. There are two sides. The club say it is not true. I love this club.'  Guardiola also snapped back at his old employers and boyhood club, Barcelona, after their president Josep Maria Bartomeu thanked UEFA for following through with Financial Fair Play punishments. 'If they are happy we are suspended, I say to the president of Barcelona, give us two appeals,' the City boss said. 'I ask right now the people trust what they have done. "Don't talk too loud Barcelona," that is my advice because everybody is involved in situations. We are going to appeal and hopefully in the future we can play in the Champions League against Barcelona.' 
