{ By Luke Augustus for MailOnline    Published:  15:26, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8020043/Mino-Raiola-vs-Manchester-United-war-words-unfolded-Paul-Pogba-Erling-Haaland.html }
If Manchester United's campaign has been dogged by inconsistency then off-it there has been one constant thorn in their side - in the shape of super agent Mino Raiola. The outspoken Italian is the agent of Red Devils' midfielder Paul Pogba who has been pushing for a move out of Old Trafford since last summer. The 26-year-old has a contract until 2021, with the Premier League side having an option to extend it by an extra year. And with Raiola fiercely defending his client, and playing a part in United's botched attempt at signing Erling Braut Haaland too, it's fair to say that relations between club and agent have become strained. Here, Sportsmail looks at how the events and war of words have unfolded this season. July 5, 2019 - Raiola publicly declares that he is trying to engineer an exit for Pogba. 'Everyone knows the willingness of Paul to move on,' he told the Times. 'We are in the process of that. Everyone knows what the feelings of Paul are. Everyone within the club from the manager to the owner knows Paul's wishes.' July 9 - Raiola says Pogba has 'done nothing wrong' in trying to force an exit and questions United for for not giving his client more protection from outside criticism.  'The player has done nothing wrong, he has been respectful and professional in every way,' he said.  'The club knows his feeling for a long time, it is a shame other people only like to criticise without the right information and I'm also sorry that the club does not take any position against this. Hopefully there will soon be a satisfying solution for all parties.' July 10 - Solskjaer hits back, declaring on United's pre-season tour in Perth: 'As far as I'm aware there have been no bids for any players. We are Man United and we don't have to sell. It's business as usual. Paul has never been a concern for me. He's working hard, he's a true professional and a proud boy, same answer again. 'I can't be sitting here talking about what Paul and his agent are saying. He's got a few years left of his contract and he's been fantastic. I'm here to talk about the season... pre-season coming. Paul's never put himself out of the team, always given his best and I can't report anything. Agents talk all the time and we've not had any bids, that's all I can say for this matter. 'I'm not just talking about Mino Raiola, there are loads of agents looking after their clients. We've got players and a team I've got to look after.' September 16 - Gary Neville blasts Raiola as a 'disgrace' and says Manchester United must 'stop working with him'. 'His agent is a disgrace and has been a disgrace all over Europe - not just for Manchester United,' Neville told TV2. 'They must stop working with him. He doesn't have the values you want in your club.  'My opinion is that Manchester United need not negotiate with him. He will try to fix a transfer for his player, and will try to take part of the transfer sum himself. That's how he operates.' December 20 - Raiola stresses that Pogba is not looking for a way out of Old Trafford but calls on the club to form a clear identity for the midfielder to be part of. 'I think that Paul really went home. Paul could have gone elsewhere. But he really chose with his heart, to go home. Paul is a very, very nice person,' he told the Telegraph. 'Paul wants to be successful and happy and wants to win prizes and he would love to do that with Manchester United.' December 23 - Neville insists he doesn't trust Raiola after his latest public statement about Pogba's ambitions with United. Speaking after their 2-0 defeat at Vicarage Road, which was Pogba's first appearance since September, Neville said: 'That's good. That's great news. Ultimately, I look forward to him being at the club for the next two or three years.  'If he is, I'll be delighted because a flying, fit, motivated and committed Paul Pogba is a massive asset to Manchester United. But I don't believe a word his agent says. I don't believe a word that comes out of that man's mouth.' December 30 - Raiola hits out at United after their failure to sign his client Haaland from RB Salzburg. The Red Devils missed out on the striker, who is now at Borussia Dortmund, after refusing to meet the demands of his representatives.  It's understood that Dortmund have agreed to give Raiola and the forward's father Alf-Inge Haaland a significant share of the 19-year-old's future sales value, which the hierarchy at Old Trafford were reticent to sanction. 'I do not know if Manchester United are briefing this but if they are then they are covering their own loss and that I find strange and disappointing,' Raiola told The Telegraph.  'There was no fall-out between me and (United executive vice-chairman) Ed Woodward. It was just a normal negotiation and the player has chosen a different path. If they want to blame someone then, fine, blame me but the player is happy. He has made his choice and we went through a normal process.' December 30 - Speaking on Sky Sports, Raiola insists that his client will remain a United player for the remainder of the season before adding that his point of contact at the club is Ed Woodward, not Solskjaer.  'Paul has always respected Manchester United just as Manchester United has also always respected Paul,' the Italian said. 'And the only one that talks for Manchester United and for Paul is Ole, because he comments in the paper and in the press. 'I go by what he (Solskjaer) says. He (Pogba) will not move, and that's okay. We are good with them. Paul is a little bit struggling with his injury that we tried to resolve and I think that's our main interest now. 'So if Ole has ideas about my player and he wants to talk to me about it, he knows my number. And until that moment I talk with Ed Woodward, because that's the person that I talk to at the club. I never spoke with Ole. 'So I don't know. I only know that Paul respects him, loves him for what he has done in the past with him. And that's it, that's the only thing I know about Ole.' December 31 - A day later, Raiola says that Pogba needs to be in a team that is competing for trophies.  'Yes I can, but in a club that I hope fights for the league and hopefully the Champions League,' he told Sky Sports News in response to whether his client would be at United this time next year. 'Is that strange? Am I the only one that's worried? Is the owner not worried? I think that everybody that is in love with Manchester United is worried about that. 'I'm worried about that for my player. As long as Paul is in Manchester United, he wants to win trophies with Manchester United. 'That's the kind of player he is and he will not act differently. Clearly they are not where they think they should be.' December 31 - The same day, Raiola launched another withering attack on the Red Devils, claiming that the club is a 'problem' for his client and insisting that he would now not help any of his other players move to Old Trafford. Raiola also suggested that the club is so dysfunctional that it would even have ruined the careers of Diego Maradona, Pele and Paolo Maldini had they played there under the current set-up. 'Pogba's problem is Manchester United. It's a club out of touch with reality and without a sporting project,' he told Italian news outlet La Repubblica. 'I wouldn't take anyone there, they would even ruin Maradona, Pele and Maldini. Paul needs a club and a squad, one like Juventus was before.' January 1, 2020 - Solskjaer claims that Pogba's 'people' are advising him to undergo surgery on his troublesome ankle injury in a thinly-veiled dig. After United's 2-0 defeat by Arsenal on New Years Day, the Norwegian explained his take on the situation. Asked when Pogba was expected to return, he said: 'Three or four weeks maybe, I don't know. He's been advised to have an operation by his people and he'll probably do that.' January 1 - Speaking as a BT Sport pundit during United's defeat at Arsenal, club legend back Rio Ferdinand criticised Raiola for his recent outbursts. 'If I was someone sitting there advising Paul, I would say, "Go and speak out. You're your own man. Your voice is going to be heard the loudest. Don't let your agent speak. Shut your agent down". 'You speak and add some clarity to this situation so your fans know where you're at, your team-mates know where you're at, and your club, your manager, the people who are important know where you are.'  January 2 - Raiola says he didn't force Manchester United to buy back his client in 2016 for a then-world record £89million fee at the time. They had initially released him to Juventus in 2012 after Pogba was reluctant to sign a new contract. 'I didn't threaten anyone at Manchester United with a gun to buy back Paul Pogba,' he told Voetbal International. 'Alex Ferguson has gone straight against me and Paul, that is allowed, but where was he when his successors bought Paul back?' January 15 - With Jesse Lingard and Marcus Rashford linked to joining Raiola's agency stable, former United coach Rene Meulensteen cautioned against doing so - stating it would spell trouble for the club as the Italian puts his own interests first. 'It's really strange to me,' he told talkSPORT . 'Sometimes these agents get far too much control, but that's just how the system works unfortunately. It's crazy and it causes problems for managers. I think a club the size of Manchester United should be able to look after that themselves.' 'Pogba was already with him, but now Lingard is going and Rashford,' he added. 'It's not a good development in my opinion. His way is Raiola first and then the player, and not the interest of the club.' January 22 - Solskjaer confirms that the Red Devils pulled out of the race to sign Haaland because of his agent Raiola. 'It's important that we use common sense,' he said at a press conference. 'There are other things too when you sign players, that you have to keep in control. You can't give agents the control by giving buyout clauses and stuff. 'That has been touted around, that is for me, we have to be in control.' January 22 - Raiola reveals he has never spoken to Solskjaer but remains open with Woodward in communicating Pogba's desire to leave Manchester United. On his relationship with United, Raiola said: 'It's good. It's a professional, honest, relationship. I've never spoken to Ole... but my relationship with Ed [Woodward] is transparent. I expect my players to be happy and the clubs to be happy. 'For now he needs to be fit then I have to get both parties happy. If one is not then there are other ways to resolve that. I don't say anything for sure. Today he is not happy because he is not playing.' February 14 - On linking Pogba with a return to Juventus in the summer, Raiola describes Italy as a 'home' for the 26-year-old. 'Italy is like home for Paul. He would not mind going back to Juve but we will see what will happen after the Euros,' he said after Juve's Coppa Italia first-leg draw at AC Milan. 'Paul wants to play at the best level but he can't escape by Manchester United if they are in a difficult situation.' February 15 - Raiola hints that Pogba is likely to leave United if the club do not qualify for the Champions League. Talking to Italian media he said: 'He [Pogba] never lost his smile, but clearly a great player doesn't go to Manchester United only to not challenge for the Champions League or the Premier League title. 'It would be bull for me not to admit Paul wants to stay at the highest level. But Pogba will first and foremost try to give his best and then we'll see at the end of the season if he ought to remain or not.' February 17 - Solskjaer hits back at Raiola in their latest spat - declaring Pogba's future is in United's hands, not the agent's. 'Paul is our player and not Mino's,' Solskjaer said. 'I haven't sat down and told Paul to tell his agent what to say. I've not spoken to Mino, that's for sure.' February 17 - Just 17 minutes before United's Premier League match at Chelsea, Raiola returned with more digs at Solskjaer, via Twitter, by insisting Pogba is not a 'prisoner'.  In an astonishing rant, he posted three photos on social media which read: 'Pogba is not mine and for sure not Solskjaer's property. Paul is Paul Pogba's. You cannot own a human being already for a long time in the UK or anywhere else. 'I hope Solskjaer doesn't want to suggest that Paul is his prisoner. But before Solskjaer makes comments about things I say, he should inform himself better about the content of what has been said. 'I am a free citizen who can think and express my thoughts. Until now I was maybe too nice to him. Solskjaer should just remember things that he said in summer to Paul. 'I think Solskjaer may be frustrated for different reasons and is mixing up some issues. I think Solskjaer has other things to worry about. At least, if I was him, I would.' February 17 - Speaking post-match after Monday's 2-0 win over the Blues, Solskjaer was wary of once again being drawn into a war of words with the outspoken Italian. When questioned over Raiola's social media outburst, Solskjaer said: 'Well, I don't have to comment through the media on Mino and what he says. I can probably speak to him myself. 'Anyone has a voice and your opinion. There are things being said about us that you want to comment, but you'd rather not and it is more clever that you don't comment on many different things.' February 17 - Roy Keane urges Manchester United to sell Pogba this summer after the midfielder's agent became embroiled in a fresh war of words with Ole Gunnar Solskjaer. Keane said the club must 'look at the bigger picture' after Solskjaer was quizzed on Raiola's comment that Solskjaer hoped he was not suggesting Pogba was his 'prisoner'. Keane told Sky Sports: 'If it's not right for the club and people are almost laughing at you, these agents, let these lads go. Look at the bigger picture. We're talking about a great club like Manchester United. Don't go chasing after these agents and these players who, I think, the bottom line, don't really want to be at the club. 'The agents don't want them to be there, I don't think Pogba wants to be there. Just shake hands and say, "Off you go". He'll go this summer. He'll go in the summer, 100 per cent.' February 17 - Neville thinks Manchester United's ongoing war of words with Raiola can only end with Pogba leaving the club and cannot understand why United deal with Raiola as he has been a thorn in their side for years. He told Sky Sports: 'It will end in Pogba leaving Manchester United. What the club need to do is make a stance on that agent. He has messed them around for years with Pogba and others. 'Why they allow themselves to be played I will never know. He is a serious thorn in the side for them. United should stand strong and not do business with him and tell players if they are represented by him we won't do deals with you. 'Raiola is publicly trying to embarrass the club all the time. At the end of the day he is defending his player but what Solskjaer definitely wasn't was aggressive. He was saying they spent £90m on a player and they want him to stay at the club and play well. 'He wasn't claiming ownership but Raiola wants to create situations where Pogba is out of the club and Raiola wants his next pay day. He has made tens of millions off of him and will continue to do so. He is the golden egg of Mino.' February 18 - In retaliation to Neville's remarks, Raiola takes aim at the United great - labelling him as a 'big know-how'. Raiola, speaking on talkSPORT, said of Neville: 'Gary Neville has such a big know-how of football that I'm surprised his Salford City are not in the Premier League already. 'He should be on the board of directors of United and ask them for a job, I don't care what he says.' February 18 - Remaining in the spotlight, the 52-year-old then went on Sky Sports later that day to state there are no issues in his relationship with Manchester United boss Solskjaer despite their recent back-and-fourth. Seemingly trying to extend an olive branch to Solskjaer, Raiola said: 'I will reach out to Ole because nothing serious is going on. I certainly did not intend to have any disrespect to the club or towards him. 'Having players at Manchester United, I only want the best for the team and the club. I have nothing against Ole and I don't think he has anything against me. 'I did only think that saying Paul is Manchester United's was not the right reaction. I only wanted to respond to everyone who said that because you employ a player therefore you own them and can do whatever you want with them.' Speaking about Pogba's future, Raiola added: 'Paul has great commitment to the club, there is no question about that. 'Paul has a contract with Manchester United and wants to get back fit as quick as possible and back into the team to be a positive factor until the end of the season. 'In this moment, there are no talks [over Pogba's future]. He is only committed to Manchester United and he respects his contract. Everybody is worried about Pogba leaving, but I am not worried. 'We are open for talks after he gets back [from injury]. For now, there is a contract and the only thing he is focused on is getting back to fitness. 'For this kind of player, there can't be a lot of interest because not a lot of clubs can afford him. There are no talks with any clubs at the moment.' February 18 - Tuesday was a busy day, with Neville branding Raiola 'a leech' and claiming their war of words 'was the best birthday wish'. Neville, who was celebrated his 45th birthday, angered Raiola by saying United should never do business with the Italian with star-man Pogba continuing to push for a move away. Neville predicted the saga will end with Pogba leaving in the summer. Raiola hit back by labelling the Sky Sports pundit a 'big know-how' and said 'he could go screw himself.' That provoked a barbed response from Neville, who tweeted: 'The best birthday wish I could have had from this leech!' So, what happens now?   Neither side has come out of it looking pretty, in all honesty, and it has gone too far for either to back down and concede position.  The feud between United and Raiola saw them miss out on Haaland, who has already won rave reviews for Borussia Dortmund with 11 goals in seven games. Haaland told Solskjaer he did want to join Manchester United in December but with the Raiola relationship already soured, that deal was perhaps doomed from the off.  The future of Pogba also is a bone of contention in recent arguments between the agent and the club and missing out on Haaland plus losing their record signing - again - is far from a look of strength.  But this long-running feud also reflects badly on Raiola, burning bridges with one of the biggest clubs in world football. His antics also serve as a warning to other sides keen on his clients - few will want him to dictate the terms of deals and ultimately, hold them to a king's ransom.  While he may think he has the upper hand, Raiola has shown his true colours in public and his public spat with United surely cannot be good for business?    
