{ By Max Winters For Mailonline   Published:  23:51, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/sportsnews/article-8018389/Chelsea-reveal-kicked-Manchester-United-fans-Stamford-Bridge.html }
Chelsea have revealed they denied entry to Manchester United fans and kicked others out of Stamford Bridge for 'unacceptable homophobic chants' at Monday night's Premier League game. It is not clear what was allegedly said by the away fans but Chelsea vowed to ban those involved from any future matches at Stamford Bridge. A statement released by the Blues on Tuesday night said: 'At last night’s (Monday's) match a large group of Manchester United supporters made unacceptable homophobic chants. 'A number of these away supporters were prevented from entering the stadium and others were ejected during the game. 'This behaviour will not be tolerated at Chelsea Football Club. Those supporters will be banned from attending matches at Stamford Bridge in future, and in cooperation with Manchester United we have passed the details of those supporters to them so they can take appropriate action.' It emerged earlier on Monday that the Football Association are reportedly not going to launch an investigation into alleged homophobic chanting from United fans. According to Sky Sports News, the FA 'take the allegations extremely seriously and remain in regular, ongoing discussions with the Police, Kick It Out and Crown Prosecution Service on what language is deemed discriminatory.' United left Stamford Bridge with all three points thanks to goals from Anthony Martial and Harry Maguire.  It comes after West Ham condemned their own fans for singing homophobic chants during their Premier League clash at Chelsea in December.  The Hammers' LGBT fan group Pride of Irons claimed that supporters were singing 'Chelsea Rent Boys' at Stamford Bridge - and the Chelsea Supporters Trust agreed it was 'continuous'. Stonewall's director of sport Robbie de Santos told Sky Sports News: '[With] this particular chant a lot of people say that they don't understand what is meant by the chant. 'That doesn't make it excusable but it shows that part of the solutions to stopping this chant is to make sure that people understand what the implications of the word rent boy actually mean.' 
