{ By Zoe Zaczek For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  22:01, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8017803/Erin-Molan-host-Channel-Nines-coverage-womens-cricket-World-Cup.html }
Erin Molan will host Channel Nine's coverage of the women's Twenty20 Cricket World Cup after she was called in to replace axed commentator Todd Woodbridge. The tennis great confused cricket fans across the country when he took the reigns of the channel's Ashes coverage last year. Nine stood by their decision to put him in the job, as Woodbridge acted as a compere during breaks of play as well as before and after games. But the new head of sport Brent Williams has decided to switch up the coverage once again, bringing in NRL commentator Molan as a replacement for the nine-time Wimbledon double's champion. Molan will share the hosting load with fellow NRL commentator James Bracey. The pair, who will alternate over the two-and-a-half week tournament, do not have a history working with cricket.  They will be joined by former Test batsman Mark Taylor and former Australian wicket keeper Julia Price as the channel's in-studio experts. The tournament begins with a clash between hosts Australian and India on Friday at Spotless Stadium in Sydney.  Molan's new role comes after she hosted the network's coverage of the Australian Open in Melbourne. Nine will broadcast all the Australian fixtures as well as semi-finals and the final, while Fox Cricket will air the entire tournament. Mel Jones and Isa Guha will commentate for Fox Cricket, which will also feature Megan Barnard and Alex Blackwell.  Molan controversially replaced Paul 'Fatty' Vautin as the main host of the Footy Show in 2018. Vautin was the face of the popular sports talk show for the better part of 24 years before he was unceremoniously dismissed in 2017 after ratings dwindled. The program was eventually axed in October 2018, despite the attempts to revamp ratings with Molan in the lead.    At the end of last year, Molan faced a barrage of headlines due to her 'feud' with Andrew Johns.   Johns, who is considered one of the greatest rugby league players of all time, apparently found Molan 'difficult to work with' and disliked her 'giggling'. 'He just doesn't like working with her,' a source previously told Daily Mail Australia. The former Newcastle Knights star also refused to put his name to a statement supporting Erin, despite the fact she was being aggressively trolled on social media.   
