abortion
{  
    February 03 2013 04:27 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/the-secret-histories-29046047.html }
'It could have been so much easier if there wasn't all the secrecy and shame' Kelly* is 19 and at university in dublinI had an abortion last year when I was 18. It was awful. I was so scared when I found out I was pregnant because I didn't know who to tell, apart from my boyfriend and my best friend. I live right out in the country and it felt as if I was totally on my own with it. There was nowhere to go or turn. If it wasn't for the internet, I wouldn't have known what to do. Obviously, I didn't want to be pregnant when I was just about to start college. My boyfriend was really freaked because we hadn't even been together that long. We split up soon after. I found advice online about what to do, but it was in England and I didn't know how I was going to get the money or anything. It was so stressful, hiding being sick and worrying constantly about what to do. Eventually, I told my mother. Her reaction was not good, but I didn't know what else to do. My best friend was great, but she's just a student like me and couldn't really do much, other than be there to talk to without making me feel bad. I didn't know how to go about doing anything. My mother helped me sort out a flight and the money, but it was really awkward because, apart from relatives, I don't have anyone in England who I could have stayed with for a night without telling them why I was there, so I had to book a B&B. In the end, my mother came with me because my boyfriend backed out. She didn't tell my dad or any of the family and seemed to be in a real state  about it. It was horrible, because I was worrying about her. The whole thing was a nightmare. All I wanted was for someone to tell me not to worry, but nobody did. It was as if I had committed a crime or something. The actual abortion was not  a big deal in itself, but all the  hoo-ha that went with it did my head in. It could have been so much easier if there wasn't all the secrecy and shame. I am not ashamed of having had one, because I didn't want a baby – I'm miles too young – but I felt awful all the same because it was all so stressful. 'I was raped and the first thing my parents thought of was how to hide the fact I was pregnant' Mary* is 53 and the mother of two children My parents made a hasty  decision on my behalf to have an abortion after I was raped. The first thing they thought of was how to hide the fact I was pregnant . It was 1973 and I was taken from Northern Ireland to Liverpool by boat and the abortion took place in a clinic. Despite my age, I could have carried and delivered my child and I know that I could have loved it very much, so it was not the right decision for me. The abortion did nothing to help me after being raped. It made me feel very bad for more than three decades. I displayed all the classic symptoms of 'post-abortion trauma' – depression, suicidal thoughts, loneliness, addiction – but didn't know that's what it was until recent years. I completed a six-week 'Surrendering The Secret' programme and it was my first step in speaking about my abortion. There, I found healing and peace, and I've been able to move on a lot since. The anger has gone and I have peace about what happened to my baby and to me. I am now 53 years of age and have two children, a boy and a girl. I would plead with anyone considering an abortion not to presume that it's the right  'solution'. Please consider how it will be for you afterwards, having to keep this secret and then the trauma of post-abortion symptoms, for example depression, anxiety, anger, substance abuse and low self-esteem issues. 'Both abortions were deeply damaging to me, physically, emotionally and spiritually' Adele Best is 38. She is a member of 'Women  Hurt' I've had two abortions. The first when I was a young twentysomething at the start of a promising career. I wasn't  married to my then boyfriend of three years. I felt having a baby wouldn't fit into my career or travelling-the-world plans – at the time, I was pro-choice. It was my decision. It was a knee-jerk reaction to solve the unplanned pregnancy problem. I had it in May 2000. The second abortion was when I was 30. I desperately didn't want to lose this baby, but I was alone in a foreign country and my foreign boyfriend was a strong factor. Everyone was telling me to 'get rid of it'. It was a less hasty decision, yet a much more agonising one. I had it carried out in a private hospital in Istanbul in May 2005. Both abortions were deeply damaging to me, physically, emotionally and spiritually, and they sent my life into a spiral of depression, despair and trauma. At the time, I thought the first one was the right decision, but, almost immediately afterwards, I slipped into a deep depression. The second one derailed my life entirely. I regret my two abortions 100pc, with every single fibre of my being. I regret losing two children to the lie of the abortion industry. It's not a foetus or a bunch of cells, it's a baby, and I was shocked at how strong the level of grief was at the loss of those two lives. No one prepared me for the reality. I realised as a woman I'm deeply programmed to nurture that life, not forcibly destroy it. I wasn't in a traumatic state immediately after the first abortion. At first, I was elated that the unplanned pregnancy was over, but that was very short-lived, a couple of days – the depression soon kicked in. The second was a totally different situation. I woke up on a trolley in a dark room and I remember being flooded with anger and grief at the finality of what we had done. I jumped off the trolley and was beating my boyfriend and screaming, "You murdered my baby, I hate you". I went totally off the rails in the weeks afterwards, drinking and taking drugs and getting into fights to numb the pain of emptiness and depression, and the profound sense of loss. I was lucky enough to meet a woman by chance who worked in post-abortion recovery counselling. She was able to lead me through the trauma. There is hope and healing for woman who, like me, have also suffered after their abortions. I didn't even know these types of counselling existed. The world doesn't tell women the truth – that abortion damages women. These counsellors have to pick up the pieces. I always thought I was going to be punished for my actions and wouldn't be able to conceive. I got mixed up in unsuitable and less-than-ideal relationships, as my self-esteem was very damaged. However, I was blessed with a beautiful daughter in 2008. I'm now a single parent and  it's not easy sometimes, but she is simply the best thing that has happened in my life. She has blessed me with joy. I have suffered some issues still with unresolved anger, but the post-abortion counselling was very good. I would warn women who are thinking of abortion simply not to go down that route. It's deeply damaging. Women are not being told the truth about the after-effects. I know I wasn't, which made me very angry afterwards. I strongly believe abortion is not the answer for women and, frankly, they deserve better. It's not healthcare – it's barbaric and, as a civilised society, we should offer women more support around the times of unplanned pregnancies. What is so civilised about murdering children in the womb? The one place they should be safe? 'I have no regrets' Siobhan* is 42, from Dublin, and married to Tom*. They have three children aged 13, 10 and eight When I realised I was pregnant last year, I was totally horrified – it was a straightforward failure of contraception. My husband was pretty horrified, too. We absolutely love our kids to bits, but by the time the youngest started school, we were quite sure that our family was very much complete. A fourth baby would have tipped the balance unbearably – even as a full-time parent, I was already at capacity. My husband works full-time so that I can be there for the kids. It wasn't so much the money, but we felt as if we had just about hit our stride in terms of our family life, and were really enjoying our children and the times we spend together. We are very family oriented – our lives revolve around our kids – and it felt as if another baby would have removed me from the active role I have within the family, because my pregnancies were all really tough. Then you're breastfeeding for ages and, to be honest, I couldn't handle the idea of doing it all again. I want to be the best parent I can to my kids, rather than being ratty, exhausted and overwhelmed. It would have affected my relationship with my husband, too, because there would have been less of me to go around. I know he would have gone with whatever decision I made – ultimately, as the primary carer, it was my choice – but he was relieved when I didn't want to have a fourth child. I'd never had an abortion before, and I did wonder a bit about what the embryo would have grown into, but I didn't really indulge in any baby fantasies – they'd already been more than fulfilled in real life. I had my termination in London at 10 weeks. My husband was with me every step of the way. That night we stayed in a hotel together and had a big talk about how we were feeling. We knew that we had both done the right thing. The next baby I want to hold in my arms is my grandchild, if that's what our kids decide they want. Until then, I'm focused on bringing up my three fantastic children the very best I can. I have no regrets. 'On the plane home my mother warned me never to speak of this to anyone' sinead (45) I was a single mother of a three-year-old boy at the time of getting an abortion. I was in a very dysfunctional relationship with a man much older than me. I got involved with him out of pure heartache, as the father of my son had been driven away – my parents wouldn't accept him. I rebelled and started hanging around with this man and went out drinking with him, which was totally out of character for me. When I became pregnant, I went to my mother. She said I got away with the first one, but under no circumstances was I to approach my father regarding a second pregnancy. There was no  compromise. I went to London with her 21 years ago to have an abortion. The decision was taken out of my hands completely. I was 24 and struggling to manage my son and earn an income, and I depended on my parents for support and to babysit. Abortion was the worst decision I ever took. I wish I'd had the courage to stand up to my mother and say no. I regretted it the very moment I woke up from the abortion and every day since. On the plane home, my mother warned me never to speak of this to anyone. I took her words to heart and kept it bottled up inside me for 21 years. I vowed to be the best mother to my other child, but sometimes the grief overwhelmed me. I was traumatised and my menstrual cycle went haywire. For years, I suffered from alopecia, also connected to the trauma, I believe. Last month, I did a Rachel's Vineyard Retreat and, for the first time in my life, I made peace with the awful pain. I went on to meet my husband eight years later but, at that stage, I was having so much menstrual trouble, we agreed that the sooner the hysterectomy was carried out, the better. That in itself is very sad. I believe it was as a direct result of me rejecting my womb – where so much pain had happened – that I never went on to have other children. 'The fact that legally I face life in prison is a disgrace' Suzanne LEE , Dublin I chose to make the move from Belfast to Dublin. I chose to study in UCD. I chose where I wanted to live. I chose who to live with. Every day, I make the choice as to what time to get up at, whether I get one or two buses to college, what I eat, where I go and when I go to bed. Yet, living in Ireland, I legally can't choose what I want to do to my body. Last August, I discovered I was pregnant. I was 22 and a student in UCD. I didn't really know how to take the news; I had no idea what to do. My boyfriend and I thought about it, then talked it over a few days later. It wasn't an instant decision to have an abortion – I made lists of consequences of both having a child and having an abortion, though deep down I knew that was what I was going to do. I always knew that if I was to ever have a child, I would want them to have a good life, one where they wouldn't have to struggle financially and I could give them all the attention and love that they would need. At that time I couldn't; there was no way that I was in a position to do this. As I was living off nothing but my student loan, travelling to England didn't really seem like an option, so I decided to purchase the abortion pill off the internet. I went through an online doctor's consultation to make sure there was little chance of complications from taking it. Once this was done and I paid the €90, the pills were sent out. Due to stricter border controls in the south, I had to get the pills delivered to Belfast and get someone to bring them down to Dublin. This was one of the most stressful aspects of my abortion, as you cannot take the pills after the ninth week of pregnancy, so I had to hope that they would get to me in time. I took the pills in my own home, with my boyfriend there every step of the way. It was a difficult time both mentally and physically. Once the pills start to work it is essentially like a very bad period, with lots of cramping and bleeding. To be honest, I expected a lot worse. The most difficult part was the mood swings. Due to all the pregnancy hormones there were times when I felt really low, and also times when I felt really happy. I was really glad that I had my boyfriend there for me and knew that my friends were only at the other end of the phone if I needed them. In the days and weeks following the abortion, I was continuously bleeding and this was quite worrying. However, 'Women On Web' were always only an email away with advice and help. It was quite scary going to the doctor; it was difficult to predict how they would react to the news of me having an abortion, but the majority of medical staff I saw were supportive and helpful. There are days when I wonder what might have been – if I hadn't had the abortion I would currently be seven months pregnant. There are also days where I feel sad, but I know that I have no regrets and made the right decision for me. The fact that legally I face life in prison is a disgrace, but I wouldn't have done anything differently. I hope that no other people have to go through this, but I know they will, so until then I will continue to share my story and campaign for free, safe and legal abortion on demand. 'I had bouts of depression, especially on the anniversary of the abortion' Bernadette Goulding is a member of the Women Hurt group. I was 19 when I got an abortion in a London hospital. When I think about my abortion, only one word comes to mind: fear. Fear is the main motivation for an abortion. Fear of losing control of my life, fear of letting my parents down, fear of bringing shame on the family. After suffering from dehydration due to the pregnancy, I ended up in hospital. I felt I wanted to die. I told the doctor I did not want to live, so I guess the reason for my abortion was that I was suicidal. There are many women who are suicidal after abortion, but rarely before. If someone had taken the time to sit and talk to me, to explore other options, I now know that I would not have had an abortion. I had nightmares every night for years. The nightmares were always the same. There was a baby and I was always trying to get hold of this baby, the baby that I could never find – the one that I was never told I might miss. To begin with, there was relief after the abortion. My problem was gone. No one would ever know. Little did I know that it would create even bigger problems in my life. The fear is now replaced by regret, guilt and shame. I regret that no one offered a different solution to my situation, of that little baby in my womb. There was a bond between me and my baby, and not even abortion could break that bond. There is also guilt at ending my child's life and shame, huge shame. I felt like I had a big A on my forehead. I had to put it away. I couldn't allow myself to think about my abortion. Denial was the only way I could cope. For years I did not know what was wrong with me. It was a type of confused denial. Abortion was totally the wrong decision for me. If I knew back then what I now know, my child would be alive today. I was in a traumatic state in the aftermath of the abortion. I was a totally different person. I had bouts of depression, especially on the anniversary of the abortion. In recent years, I have been able to find peace from the abortion. I was caught in a guilt trap. I had imposed a guilty verdict on myself. I had to confront my guilt, my shame, and my fear of disclosure. Meeting other women who had been struggling with the same issues helped to end the isolation. I went on to get married and have wonderful children. You can take the baby out of the womb, but you can never take it out of your heart. We hear a lot today about freedom of choice today. Abortion is not a sign that women are free; it is a sign that they are desperate. Abortion stops the baby's heart, and breaks the mother's heart. 'There were pro-life protesters outside the clinic shouting at women going in and out' * Lorna is 39 and from Cork. She has two children, aged four and seven I became pregnant for the first time when I was 25 and living in London. It happened during my period, which I hadn't realised was possible – I was usually very careful about contraception. I had no idea I was pregnant, but I was feeling really dreadful, sick and exhausted – I thought there was something terrible wrong with me. When I found out I was pregnant, it was almost a relief to know that I wasn't seriously ill, but the feeling I had was not joy or celebration; just a massive feeling of 'oh, no way'. I did want kids, at some stage, but not then – I was in a dying relationship, and my life was very insecure in terms of money and where I lived. The idea of adding a baby to all of that was horrifying; it would have been a really irresponsible thing to do. Even if the father had got down on one knee and begged me to stay with him and go through with the pregnancy, I would not have considered it. My own life was still all over the place. And I just wanted to stop feeling so ill. I do have issues with late abortion, though, so I scraped the money together and went private in London. My family are Irish Catholic pro-lifers, so I couldn't turn to them for any kind of support. They still don't know. My then-boyfriend was completely useless and just backed away. Thankfully, I have very good friends who took care of me. What was shocking to me was that there were pro-life protesters outside the clinic in London, shouting at women going in and out. That made me really angry. I felt like saying to them, 'What business is it of yours?' The actual abortion was straightforward – a six-minute scrape. I had zero feelings of guilt or regret afterwards, only relief. The sickness was gone instantly, and I felt normal again. I wondered if I would ever regret my decision, but I never have, not for one second. When the time, place and partner were right, I went on to have two children, who were planned, wanted and for whom I was ready. And I adore them. 'This child didn't deserve to grow up on welfare' author is anonymous. I'm a single mother to a seven-year-old and last year I had an abortion. I live in Ireland and I became pregnant after my contraception failed. I was shocked, horrified and incredibly scared. I knew right away I needed an abortion. I have been a single parent and know how lonely and financially difficult it can be, as well as a poverty trap. In my first pregnancy I was young and naive; with this pregnancy I was not. I knew what I had to do. I chose abortion for a number of reasons. I was months away from getting my degree and starting a career. Having another child would mean staying on welfare, giving up on a career, trying to find a job that would somehow cover childcare costs for two, and giving up on the life I'd been working hard to obtain for myself and my son. I was raised by a single parent, in a council estate on welfare. My childhood wasn't bad, but it's not the way I want my children to grow up. I want to be able to support myself and my children without welfare, serve as a role model to them, and provide them with a nice place to live and a childhood free of money troubles. I am also a single parent. After my first pregnancy I developed severe postnatal depression. I had no doubt that the postnatal depression would return if I had another child as I was in similar circumstances: I was alone, the father wasn't around and I was faced with the prospect of being dependent on welfare for the foreseeable future. I was not going to allow a second child to lose his mother to this illness. I had other reasons for choosing abortion. This child was not planned or wanted, and certainly didn't deserve to grow up on welfare with a depressed mother without the time, ability or resources to care for either of her children. I'm a grown woman and took all these factors into account. Although this decision was tough, I know that carrying the pregnancy to term would have caused more harm than good to me and my family. I considered adoption, but, ultimately, decided it would be too hard on my son to watch me carry and then give away his brother or sister. I was also not prepared to put my body through the massive changes and potential risks it would endure with a pregnancy as I struggle with my body image. I was lucky to have a close friend who supported me in my decision. Researching clinics in the UK, I quickly learned that the procedure would cost between €300 and €700. Flights and accommodation brought the total to €1,500. I simply could not afford this and started to panic. I knew I had to have an abortion and even tried all the home remedies. Fortunately, a Google search brought me to a site and they sent me an abortion pill for a small fee. I was delighted and so relieved, because if I hadn't been able to get a termination from a clinic or pills. I took the pills when I was six weeks along and it was nothing more than a heavy period. I was given excellent before and after care from Women on Web. The abortion was not painful, distressful or any of those things I had read online about it. I had a check-up in the family planning clinic a few weeks later and everything was normal. I am very relieved and confident in my decision. I definitely made the right choice and I can get on with my life. I can focus 100pc on my seven-year-old, my career and our future. I am looking forward to the future – including having more children, with the knowledge that I will be able to provide them with the best possible life that they deserve. My family does not know about my choice, but I do know that they are extremely proud that I am pursuing a career and a better life. They would not want anything to get in the way of me and my child's happiness. I believe that pregnancy and motherhood is meant to be a happy, joyous and exciting experience. It's not something that should be rushed into and especially not something to be forced upon a woman. I was not prepared to go through another lonely, depressing pregnancy and enter into motherhood without financial support or a loving and supportive partner. If someone with a crisis pregnancy asked for my advice, I would tell her to do what is right for her. Don't listen to anyone else's opinion. This decision is yours and yours alone, and you are the one that's going to have to go through it, not them. You have three options and you should choose what is right for you. I gave this advice to myself, and it made the decision a lot easier for me. I don't regret my decision. Irish Independent 
