abortion
{ Michael Gottstein 
    September 01 2009 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/the-key-to-abortion-control-26562932.html }
Every year in the run-up to and during lambing, the topic of ewes that are aborting crops up. Unfortunately, there is often very little that can be done at that stage to stop the abortions. Even where ewes are not seen aborting, some farmers will have a high percentage that were scanned in lamb but never lambed, having lost or reabsorbed their lambs unknown to the shepherd. Flocks that have experienced ewes aborting/slipping lambs at a rate above 2pc should look into options such as vaccinating for the causal agents. Remember, it is not only the dead lambs that are a cost to your enterprise. You will also end up with sick ewes -- possibly dead ewes -- vets' bills associated with these, plus extra labour and time spent dealing with aborting ewes, as well as the weak and sick lambs. The key to controlling abortions in your flock is to send each and every sample to the regional veterinary laboratory to establish the cause. Only when you have identified the cause will you be in a position to plan your control strategy. Unfortunately, it can be tricky to get a definitive result from laboratory analysis and often it is only after a number of aborted foetuses and placentas have been submitted that you will get a definitive result. In fact, more than 40pc of samples submitted to regional veterinary laboratories in 2007 did not show up a result. Of those that had a positive result, toxoplasma and enzootic abortion are the main two causal agents. So let's have a look at how these diseases are contracted and what the control options are.  Enzootic abortion Enzootic abortion is a sheep-to-sheep disease. It is spread by the ewes at lambing time and infected female sheep will shed the disease at, and after, lambing. Male sheep do not spread the disease, therefore the most likely route of entry into the flock is through bought-in, infected females. Once the disease becomes established in the flock, one should expect to have losses from enzootic abortion on an annual basis. Flocks that do not already have the disease can safeguard their ewes by operating a closed-flock policy.  Toxoplasmosis Toxoplasmosis is caused by Toxoplasma Gondii and spreads by a different method within the flock. It is not so much a sheep-to-sheep disease but requires cats and infected mice to complete the life cycle. Purchased sheep may suffer toxoplasmosis abortion if they have come from a farm where they have never encountered the parasite, but purchased ewes are unlikely to be responsible for any outbreaks within a flock. In general, the source of the infection will be cat droppings in either the feed, roughage or pasture. Non-pregnant sheep that become infected are generally immune for life, but when the infection takes place while the ewe is pregnant, it may result in abortion or weak lambs being born. Where a particular strain of abortion has been identified on the farm, steps should be taken to counteract it. However, because there are so many different abortion-causing agents, a multi-pronged approach should be taken towards reducing the risk of infection to your flock. Steps to reduce the incidence of abortion: 1) Maintain good hygiene in terms of feed, water and bedding. Keep vermin and cats out of areas where feed is stored. 2) Bio-security is critically important. Reduce the risk of introducing disease by breeding your own replacements. 3) Vaccinate all breeding stock where a particular strain of abortion has been identified. Vaccines currently available for the two main causes of abortion are: enzootic abortion -- ENZOVAX; and toxoplasmosis -- TOXOVAX.  Using vaccines Because these vaccines are live, there are a few points to note. Live vaccines have a short shelf life and in the case of Toxovax the shelf life may only be a few days by the time you get it. Therefore, don't order it until you are ready to use it. Because the live vaccine actually infects the sheep with a mild form of the disease it should not be used during, or shortly before, pregnancy. Therefore, time is running out if you want to vaccinate this year. Most veterinary suppliers only stock these products to order, so it may take a bit of forward planning. 
