abortion
{ Carol Hunt 
    February 07 2015 10:49 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/we-need-to-talk-about-all-kinds-of-abortion-30973340.html }
Minister of State Simon Harris believes that a referendum on the issue of abortion in cases of fatal foetal abnormality is "inevitable". But next Tuesday he won't be supporting Clare Daly's Bill to amend legislation to allow abortion in such cases. Nor will his other colleagues in Fine Gael, and neither will Sinn Fein. Labour are divided and Fianna Fail will give a free vote. It won't pass.  Much of the criticism about the Protection of Life in Pregnancy Act 2013, stemmed from the fact that it excluded a right to abortion in cases of rape, incest and fatal foetal abnormality. In the past year we've heard distressing stories about parents having to travel to the UK to deliver babies who never had a chance of survival; we saw the case of a suicidal rape victim forced to deliver a baby, through Caesarian section, at 25 weeks; and we saw a family put through the trauma of having to take a case to the High Court to allow a brain-dead woman's life support machine to be switched off because she was 14 weeks pregnant. These are all horrific tragedies. All but the most purist of anti-abortion campaigners surely agree that "something must be done" to allow women in these situations to access abortion legally in this country. The problem of course is how to do this, without having to legislate for some level of abortion on demand. The above, you see, are the abortions that we are allowed to talk about, the "sympathetic abortions". They are, to all intents and purposes, regarded as "good" or at least "not bad" abortions. The women who need to avail of them are either pregnant through force or they desperately wanted the baby in the first place. In all of these cases is a tragedy. These women are deserving of our sympathy, our understanding and our mercy. But these cases form a very small minority of crisis pregnancies when compared to the thousands of Irish women who travel to the UK annually to have an abortion and give Irish addresses. (Incidentally, all the women I know who travelled gave UK addresses.) Then there are the thousands of others, nameless and faceless women who take medication they bought online which induces a miscarriage. These are the "bad abortions" - the abortions that are just for the silly women who made their own bed and must lie on it - the women we are not socially primed to sympathise with. These are the abortions that occur because the pregnant woman already had four children she was struggling to feed; it's the situation where a woman knew it was a choice between her education and a career or having a child and struggling as a poverty stricken lone parent; or it could just be as simple as a young pregnant woman knowing that it was the wrong time because, well, she had other plans. This is what Tara, a young woman from Cork, admitted was the reason why she was travelling to London to have an abortion, on the BBC3 documentary shown last Wednesday, Abortion: Ireland's Guilty Secret? It wasn't the right time, she said, herself and her partner Steve had planned to travel, it just wasn't right. 
Close
 Tara from Cork who appears a documentary about abortion after her procedure. / Tara is the Everywoman who has had to take that journey to the UK, the majority in shame and secrecy. She was lucky in that she had her partner with her, but it was still tough, and she was angry that she had do this because abortion is not legal in Ireland. Watching her on screen articulating why abortion was the right choice for her and her partner, I thought: "Oh, oh, she's going to be flayed alive, not just by the 'pro-life' brigade - a few of whom had been protesting outside the clinic she attended in London - but also by many who, where abortion is concerned, have conflicting opinions. Author Katha Pollitt calls them the "muddled middle"; those people who don't want a complete ban on abortion but are uncomfortable about allowing it to be widely available. These are the ones who tie themselves in knots with conflicting opinions about who should be allowed to have an abortion and in what circumstances. They don't mind discussing the need for "sympathetic abortions" but when it comes to talking about all the other mundane, supposedly "selfish" reasons for having an abortion, like Tara's, they get stuck. And yes, it took a brave 24-year-old Cork woman on my screen last week to force me to come to terms with the fact that, where abortion is concerned, hypocrisy is the norm. And so, we need to talk about abortion. "Ha", I hear you saying, "when do we seem to do anything else?" But, as Pollitt says we need to start talking about abortion in a different way. "Not as something we all agree is a bad thing about which we shake our heads sadly and debate its precise degree of badness, preening ourselves on our judiciousness and moral seriousness as we argue about this or that restriction on this or that kind of woman". Which of course, is the only kind of conversation we've ever had in Ireland, as if those thousands of women who avail of abortions each year are somehow invisible; perhaps the very fact that they went ahead anyway, for their own private reasons, without holding them up for our judgement or our permission, put them outside the pale. Listening to the story of Lauren on the programme, an Irish woman who travelled in secret to the UK and had her miscarriage in the cramped tiny, toilet of the aeroplane on the way home, was heart-rending - how dare we do this to our own citizens? And yet I know that many will look and judge and think - even if they do not say it - it serves her right for doing that in the first place. How did we come to this? Abortion has always been a part of life for women, it's use for controlling fertility dates back to ancient times. (An eighth century Sanskrit text instructs women to sit over a pot of stewed onions.) During the 18th and 19th centuries, abortion was quietly accepted - particularly for single women. Of course, as the late Florynce Kennedy said: "If men could get pregnant, abortion would be a sacrament". Abortion, far from being 'anti-life' has been part of the fabric of life for centuries, as women choose to bring children into the world that they can truly love and care for. What is 'anti-life' is the millions of unwanted children living in the world today, suffering from all manner of illnesses, abused and neglected and living lives of horror and misery. Life is not merely about the right to exist. And yet today we talk naturally about the rights of single cell zygotes being equal to that of fully grown women - yet we don't seem too bothered about the many deprived children who already exist. How did that happen? When did we learn to devalue the human experience of existence? When we did we become so hypocritical? Sitting on a park bench after she had undergone her abortion, a visibly emotional Tara said, "I feel relieved - and guilty for feeling relieved". Yet many who watched her journey will say, without a trace of sympathy, "and so she should". @carolmhunt Sunday Independent 
