abortion
{  
    February 17 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/our-legal-limbo-is-an-irish-solution-to-an-irish-problem-26239314.html }
It's time for us to stop using metaphors and instead face up to the facts, writes Patricia Redlich ON MARCH 6, we're going to vote on yet another abortion referendum. Struggling, as always, to make a moral decision, telling fact from political point-scoring is hard. Nor does it help that in discussing the subject, we're intent on using metaphors rather than mention abortion. At the moment we're living in a legal limbo. As a result of our votes in the two previous abortion referendums, we currently have an article in our constitution spelling out that the State acknowledges the right to life of the unborn, while having due regard to the equal right to life of the mother. We also, very tellingly, give women the constitutional right to travel to other countries for an abortion if they so choose, and declare that information on this option should be freely available. In other words, we haven't just left a back door open, we argue that it should be advertised. But more of that later. In addition, we also have a legal precedent, the now famous X case, where the courts effectively interpreted this constitutional position to mean that a woman who felt suicidal about her pregnancy could have an abortion. And on top of that, we still operate the Offences Against the Person Act, 1861, which criminalises abortion. In the middle of this legal morass, a medical ethic has evolved over the years in Ireland, which now categorically comes down on the side of the woman if her physical health is at risk. In concrete terms, she gets whatever medical or surgical treatment she needs, even if this means that the foetus dies in the process. In this context, the intention is not a deliberate ending of the life of the unborn. The foetus dies as an unfortunate side-effect of saving the woman's life. All political parties agree that this legal mess has to be tidied up. But they disagree on how it should be done. New laws are normally the preserve of our elected representatives. It's one of their main jobs. On abortion, however, the Government has decided to bring the legislation back to us, as an integral part of the referendum in March. That means we'll decide on the details of the law in relation to abortion. It also means that any changes will have to be put to another referendum. The Opposition don't like that. They also disagree with the content of the proposed legislation. The Protection of Human Life in Pregnancy Act 2002, to give the Government's proposed law its proper title, effectively reinforces the current medical status quo in relation to women's health. The woman comes first; she must get the medical treatment she needs. It also states a clear "no" to the notion that potential suicide should be grounds for getting an abortion. It defines conception as the point when the fertilised egg is implanted in the womb, rather than the traditional theological position that conception happens at the moment of fertilisation of the egg. This is important, as there is roughly a week between fertilisation and implantation, which means that the morning-after pill can be legalised in fact it already has been because it is thus no longer seen as causing an early abortion. It also means that rape victims, or anyone else for that matter, if they come forward quickly, can be given whatever treatment is necessary to ensure that no pregnancy ensues. The proposed law also abolishes the abortion sections of the 1861 act, but continues to define abortion as a crime, with a provision for a maximum of 12 years' prison for the woman who procures an abortion, the person who carries out the abortion, and anyone who aids and abets them. There is no provision for allowing abortion in any exceptional circumstances. But the constitutional right to travel and the right to information about abortion facilities abroad remain intact. So does the basic statement about the right to life of both the unborn and the mother, as it currently exists. The political opposition believe that suicide should be recognised as a reasonable reason for abortion. Or, since so many insist on continuing the debate in metaphors, they keep saying that laws should be enacted "which give effect to the legal ruling in the X case". Can we cut through here to the truth? Suicide itself is a metaphor in this context. For the people who say "suicide" really mean the woman's right to choose. That's not a nasty statement. It's a fact. And it's a valid political position, which many people hold. Everybody knows that suicide cannot be predicted accurately. Put another way, no psychiatrist can put his hand on his heart, or the Bible, and state categorically that a woman will not commit suicide. That basically means that we have to believe her. Which means she must have the abortion. Look around the world, anywhere, and see the truth of that statement. Recognising suicide is the route to women's right to choose. My final point is for ourselves. We will be asked on March 6 to make a moral decision. Let's be clear that we are doing so in a distinctly cloudy moral context. Certainly legislation sends out important signals about what we hold dear. And life necessitates that we take principled stands. But a short flight, or boat-ride, away lies a relatively inexpensive solution for Irish women who make the difficult decision to have an abortion. We don't just know that, we have constitutionally provided for it, and actively advertise it. Apart from moral ambiguity, this also allows us an element of unreality in our debate. For its existence protects us from being daily confronted with the horror of botched back-street abortions, as perhaps six or eight thousand women a year face potential physical ruin, not to mention shielding us from the emotional pain of those who walk the abortion plank. A difficult decision. 
