abortion
{ Fionnan Sheahan and Fiach Kelly 
    April 29 2013 03:02 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/kenny-abortion-crisis-as-bruton-intervenes-29227721.html }
THE intervention of former Fine Gael leader John Bruton intensified the crisis in the party over abortion laws – and piled pressure on Taoiseach Enda Kenny In an article in today's Irish Independent, ex-Taoiseach John Bruton insists there should be no legislation for suicide as a grounds for abortion. Mr Bruton says he knows of no other area of law, where a threat of suicide is "sufficient to make legal, what would otherwise be illegal". And he proposes an alternative way to handle the legislation, which does not involve catering for the suicide grounds. The timely comments from such an influential figure will act as a lightning rod for the growing number of Fine Gael TDs uncomfortable with the legislation. Mr Kenny is now struggling to contain the growing crisis in Fine Gael over abortion legislation – with a threatened exodus from the party beginning. The first deputy to definitively say he won't vote for the legislation is Fine Gael TD Brian Walsh, who said he accepts he will lose the party whip. Senior Fine Gael figures say the leadership is finally waking up to the fact that departures will happen, with efforts under way to try to reassure TDs. Mr Bruton's comments come in the wake of a controversy over Labour Party TDs being secretly recorded talking about more expansive abortion laws after the X Case legislation is passed. The former Fine Gael leader proposes an alternative way to handle the legislation, which does not involve catering for the suicide grounds. "The only way out of the present dilemma is either to address the medical decision-making process relating to physical threats to the life of the mother, but leave suicidal intent out as a ground for abortion, and let anyone, who wants to test the present constitutionality of this aspect of the X Case, apply directly to the courts; or an option I do not favour, have a constitutional amendment to remove the equal right to life of the unborn from the constitution," he says. "Some may argue against these options on the ground that the X Case is settled law, and thus is a reliable basis for proceeding with legislation to allow abortion where suicide is threatened. I believe this is wrong." Negotiations on the drafting of the abortion legislation are expected to go down to the wire ahead of tomorrow's Cabinet meeting. Until this weekend, it is understood some Fine Gael ministers didn't take the backbencher threats to vote against the legislation seriously. One minister was said to be "in total denial" over the dangers, with another "beginning to wake up" and asking what needed to be done to reassure TDs. But the controversy over the Labour TDs comments is thought to have damaged the Fine Gael leadership's efforts to tell rural deputies and their constituents the abortion regime will be highly restrictive. Fine Gael opponents of the inclusion of the suicide grounds believe it's "not game over" on the legislation. Negotiations between the two parties are ongoing. There is agreement on issues around the procedure for approving abortions in cases of serious medical conditions and where the abortion can take place. But there is still no agreement on the exact procedure to be employed in the suicide grounds. Although the proposals to have six doctors approve an abortion where there is a threat of suicide have been withdrawn, there is no decision on the action arrangements yet. In the wake of the revelations about the Labour TDs, government ministers from both parties insisted yesterday there was no plan to bring in a liberal abortion regime. Communications Minister Pat Rabbitte says the forthcoming legislation on abortion is as liberal as the law will become. But Mr Walsh said the revelations in the secret recordings "confirmed the fears of many". "That it is the thin edge of the wedge and they see it as opening the door," he said. Taoiseach Enda Kenny has ruled out a referendum too, and Fianna Fail leader Micheal Martin doesn't want to go down that route either. Irish Independent 
