abortion
{ Eilis O'Hanlon 
    April 28 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/eilis-ohanlon-no-chance-of-honest-debate-when-all-sides-collude-in-demeaning-deception-29226628.html }
DURING the recent Oireachtas hearings on abortion, Labour's Ivana Bacik declared indignantly that those who opposed changing Irish law in line with the X Case were basing their contention that women would lie about feeling suicidal in order to get an abortion "on an underlying belief in the innate dishonesty of women". Or possibly they were just being realistic, Senator? Norma McCorvey was living in Texas in the Sixties when, at the age of 21, she found herself pregnant for the third time. In those days abortion was only possible in her state in cases of rape and incest, so her friends urged her to claim, falsely, that she'd been raped. The plan failed because there was no police report of sexual assault, but Norma's struggle, in the guise of "Jane Roe", to test the constitutionality of that law led to one of the most famous US Supreme Court decisions in history, Roe vs Wade, which ultimately established a woman's right to an abortion. Not only do women lie to get abortions, but the very right of American women to abortion, celebrated by feminists, was won on the back of a woman purposely lying. That's not to say that women cannot be genuinely suicidal in cases of crisis pregnancy; McCorvey herself was suffering from depression. Nor are women who lie in order to get an abortion necessarily doing anything wrong. If a friend of mine found herself pregnant and had made up her mind she wanted an abortion, but the only way she could get one was by pretending to be suicidal, then, like Norma's friends, I'd urge her to lie in order to get what she wanted. I spent the week asking female friends what they'd do in similar circumstances. With various provisos depending on their differing pro-life or pro-choice stances, they all, to a woman, agreed that they'd go along with deception. For me, it exposed the palpable nonsense of continuing to feign offence at any notion that women will lie about feeling suicidal in order to access abortion services. Of course, they will. Again, that's not an argument for ruling out suicide as the grounds of abortion; that issue has been thrashed out in two referendums now and the Government can't hold out forever. It's simply a plea that any serious debate about the issues should be founded on facts rather than slogans, evidence rather than propaganda. What's insulting to women isn't admitting that they will do what they have to do in order to get what they want. What's demeaning to women is making them go through a humiliating process in which they have to lie to get what they want in the first place and – what's almost more repugnant – in which everyone involved knows that they're lying, from the doctors and psychiatrists to the lawyers and politicians, possibly because they're not being 100 per cent honest with themselves either. Enda Kenny actually said last week that the law on abortion is merely being "codified" rather than changed, insisting: "No new rights are being inserted here." That's mere playing with words, or hiding behind them, because of course legislating on the basis of the X Case will make a huge difference in practice. This sort of diplomatic evasiveness infantilises public debate and ushers us all into a corner where no one speaks openly or plainly about the issue but, to borrow a phrase, codifies it in jargon. Campaigners for abortion will no doubt murmur apologetically that it's not possible to have an honest debate about abortion because, if they did concede that the upshot of legislating for abortion in cases of a threat of suicide will effectively be abortion on demand, that would make any change in the law politically untenable. They could be right. But it's just another way of saying that the end justify the means, and that the truth can and should be censored if the outcome is worth it, which seems to me to be a profoundly disturbing deterioration in the way we talk to one another as a society about serious matters, not to mention a huge step backward in the representation of women. In order to get abortion on to the statute books, what we've basically decided is that women who want a termination will have to jump through hoops to prove in a clinical situation that they're suffering from poor mental health. It doesn't matter whether it's six doctors, or three, or one, it still means perfectly normal and healthy women will be pathologised. They'll have to play the role of the weaker sex again, prone to hysteria, not strong enough to cope. All the old misogynistic cliches will be resurrected, but that's supposed to be acceptable because it's in what is deemed a progressive cause. The labelling of perfectly healthy women as dysfunctional is probably why psychiatrists want nothing to do with the new regime which the Governments wants them to administer on its behalf. They're not being asked to make disinterested, evidence-based decisions. They're being asked to come up with politically convenient fudges in order to solve a political problem. To go along with it would place psychiatrists in an impossible position. They'd either have to rubberstamp suicide claims, which makes a mockery of their profession, or they'd have to take responsibility for denying women an abortion and then being blamed for the consequences if, God forbid, one of those women did indeed take her own life. The last thing psychiatrists want is front-page banners with variations on Spike Milligan's infamous tombstone, only this time, instead of "I told you I was sick", it would be saying: "I told you I was suicidal". The conspiracy theory goes that the Government is deliberately trying to make the hurdles which a woman must overcome before she can get an abortion so onerous that she either doesn't go through with it, or else continues to avail of abortion services in England instead, thereby saving politicians from having to deal with unpleasant consequences. That's probably taking paranoia a bit far, but there is something unseemly about a group of middle-aged men in grey suits sitting around deciding what women should and should not be allowed to do with their bodies, and bringing a couple of female ministers on board for appearance's sake doesn't really make it any less grisly. Especially when macho-lite ministers seem to feel a need to appease pro-life opponents by talking up how tough Irish law will still be after the new legislation. Pro-life campaigners aren't going to like the new laws anyway, however hedged about with caveats, so appealing to them in this way just looks like a doomed plea for continued votes rather than a real attempt to deal with their serious moral objections to what's being proposed. There is no middle ground on abortion. You either legislate for it or you don't. Now that psychiatrists have turned down their allotted role of human shields, the Government has simply run out of places to hide. Maybe now it can understand why its predecessors repeatedly dodged the same challenge. Irish Independent 
