abortion
{ Linda Daly 
    September 02 2014 03:08 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/family/i-had-the-crisis-pregnancy-and-despite-pressure-to-have-an-abortion-i-chose-to-have-her-30556054.html }
As abortion raises its ugly ahead again, the issue is as divisive as ever, with people in Ireland continuing to live with the legacy of the 1983 abortion amendment. So contentious is the topic that anyone even leaning on the fence will find it difficult to find their voice amidst the melee. Some commentators mistakenly believe that you must be pro-life or pro-choice, but what happens if you fall in between the cracks of those two poles? On the Marian Finucane Show (with Aine Lawlor) on 24 August, journalist, teacher and pro-life/anti-choicer Breda O’Brien referred to ‘standard’ pro-choice people. But do all pro-choicers fall into a standard category? And if we must, let me nail my colours to the mast; I’m a pro-choicer. But I don’t think I am a ‘standard’ pro-choicer.  When the recent story broke about the tragic case involving an 18-year-old immigrant who was forced to have a Caesarean section at 24 to 26 weeks, my initial reaction (before further details were released) was that perhaps that was a good solution. Baby lives. Pregnant woman is no longer pregnant.  Problem solved.  Alas, if only life were as black and white as all that. Firstly, the woman presented at eight weeks but didn’t get access to the relevant professionals until around 17 weeks later. Secondly, extracting a baby from a womb so early on in a pregnancy can lead to a lifetime of health issues, not to mention the trauma the mother was further subjected to by being forced to go through with a Caesarean section.  Problem not solved.  My initial reaction stemmed from the fact that, while I’m pro-choice, I feel uneasy about abortions after around 20 weeks, when most mothers feel the baby kick. My feelings aren’t based on any medical opinion. You see, I’m pro-choice but still have my Catholic upbringing and teachings (with its pro-life poems to beat the band) screaming in my ears.  Gene Kerrigan wrote an excellent article about abortion in the Sunday Independent on 24 August, in which he said: “It's possible to have a personal position against abortion, which means you will not have an abortion; you hold that abortion is wrong. And at the same time to have a political position, which is that every woman should have the right to make that choice based on her conscience. Not yours or mine.” And that’s where I think I stand. I had the crisis pregnancy (crisis because I was unmarried, single, and living at home), and despite initial external pressure to have an abortion, I chose to have her. I made the choice.  A number of years ago, a close relative of mine found himself in the reverse situation; his partner wanted the abortion. He didn’t agree with abortion, was distraught, but respected her choice and helped pay for the trip to London and the procedure.  But the immigrant had no choice. Savita Halappanavar had no choice. And women in Ireland who aren’t in a position to travel have no choice.  Re-evaluate The United Nations Human Rights Committee has urged our government to re-evaluate Ireland’s abortion policy. The Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act, 2013 prohibits abortion in all cases, including those of incest, inevitable miscarriage, fatal foetal abnormality and rape.  In July, before the latest abortion case came to light, the committee’s chairman Nigel Rodley said the law regarding women impregnated through rape treated them “as a vessel and nothing more”. We must be in charge of our bodies, we must be given the opportunity to make our own choices.  Regardless of where you stand on this issue, one thing is for certain: the Eighth Amendment of the Constitution Act, 1983 and the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act, 2013 do not work.  The very fact that upwards of 150,000 Irish women have travelled to the UK for an abortion since the right to travel was granted demonstrates that pushing the issue of abortion across the Irish Sea does little to deter those women who can afford it from having an abortion. In fact, it forces those who don’t have the financial means to travel to continue with their pregnancies.  In reality, the Eighth Amendment will only ever affect those women who cannot travel. It will expose them to the degrading process of having to prove that they are suicidal. It will leave their fates and the fate of the unborn child in the hands of three professionals.  If you are under the age of 50 in Ireland, you have never had the chance to vote on women’s reproductive rights in this country. Whatever your beliefs, it’s time that this generation of men and women are afforded that right, and hopefully our children won’t have to deal with the mess.  Online Editors 
