abortion
{ By SENAN MOLONY 
    July 05 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/new-amendment-call-to-copperfasten-rules-26113189.html }
A NEW Constitutional amendment on abortion is needed to  once more prohibit direct and intentional abortion in Ireland, a delegation from the Irish Bishops Conference told  TDs and Senators yesterday. But the Catholic Church accepted that indirect abortion through action aimed primarily at saving the life of the mother could be envisaged in certain medical circumstances. ``We believe that what is required is a Constitutional amendment that would protect the right to life of the unborn child while recognising that an expectant mother who is ill must receive such medical treatment as is necessary, even when that treatment, as a side-effect, puts her unborn child at risk,'' said Bishop Laurence Ryan of Kildare and Leighlin. Speaking for the hierarchy, he told the Oireachtas Committee on the Constitution that the principle enunciated by the Supreme Court in X case, allowing an abortion where a mother threatened self-destruction, was ``seriously flawed''. The Catholic Church submission added: ``If that judgment is allowed to stand as an authoritative statement of Irish law, and if it were to be enacted into legislation, then we would be confronted with well-meaning but erroneous law reform. ``This would be to deal with difficult situations by abandoning the fundamental principle that every human life is of value in itself.''  OUTSTANDING RECORD The Bishops' submission was that obstetric practice in Ireland had an outstanding record, and the excellence of maternal care in this country indicated that recourse to direct and intentional abortion was not necessary to save the lives of mothers. Irish maternal mortality rate was of the order of two per 100,000, and the absence of abortion did not endanger their lives. Bishop Ryan said: ``Sometimes the death of an unborn child may be the unsought and unwelcome side-effect of medical treatment that is necessary for a mother who is ill. In those sad and tragic circumstances, the death of the child has not been chosen and is not the purpose of the treatment.'' Moral theologian Rev Paul Tighe said Catholic tradition always distinguished between direct and indirect abortion. Indirect destruction of the foetus in order to save the life of the mother could be envisaged in certain medical circumstances, where the child could be delivered long before full term to protect the mother. ``One can see an ambiguity in the word termination when dealing with termination of pregnancy in this way. ``It is the death of the child through early delivery, but that is not your intention. It is to deliver the baby and to save the life of the mother in that way.'' Derek McDowell (Lab) suggested it was incumbent on any party mooting a Constitutional amendment to propose a wording and to explain how it might be safeguarded from being interpreted another way by a later court ruling.  DIVISIVE DEBATE ``I'm really wondering what a Constitutional amendment can achieve. It is certain to provoke divisive debate, but it is unlikely to stop anyone travelling for abortion.'' Fr Tighe said the hierarchy were not law-drafters and could not advise as to a form of words, but the Irish Bishops' Conference felt that a clear statement in the Constitution as to the value of human life would be a ``first step,'' allowing that there was other work to be done. Dr Desmond Connell, Archbishop of Dublin, believed the ``vast majority'' of the up to 6,000 Irish women who have abortions in Britain every year are availing of the extremely liberal law there rather than medical necessity. Ann Power, lecturer in jurisprudence and philosophy at All Hallows and Kings Inns, referring to the interpretation of the pro-life Constitutional amendment in the X Case, argued: ``The real difficulty was not with the wording (of the amendment) but with the interpretation of that wording. The real flaw may be in the philosophical underpinnings of the judgment rather than the wording.'' The Archbishop added: ``I am aware of a certain manner of conducting a campaign in this whole area where aggressive tactics are used and I wish to assure members of the Oireachtas that these tactics have no support from the Episcopal Conference.''  Exceptional cases for Jews JEWS feel abortion is a moral judgment, not a medical one, Chief Rabbi Gavin Broder said yesterday. There was no direct reference in the Bible to abortion, but indirect references in the Book of Exodus suggest a distinction between the foetus and a born child. The Talmud gave rise to a 12th century view that if a woman is in hard travail such that she is in fear of death, then one is entitled to cut the child in the woman and take it out ``member by member.'' In Jewish belief an absolute Constitutional ban on abortion would be anathema, taking away the right to an abortion in exceptional circumstances. If there was a threat to the health of the mother, as distinct from her life, then this is also a possible ground for abortion. But rape, incest or deformity would not be a reason for abortion, said the Chief Rabbi. There was an entitlement for the child to have his life. It would be a burden for the assailant in rape or incest, or for the society as a whole, to look after the child. It would not be right to forfeit the child. ``Life is precious.''  Church of Ireland reveals `diversity of opinion' vote THERE IS ``diversity of opinion'' within the Church of Ireland on the abortion issue, Bishop Howard Miller of Down and Dromore conceded yesterday at public hearings of the Oireachtas joint committee on the Constitution. He said the church's initial submission to the committee, which is considering legislative change on the issue, had now to be considered withdrawn as a result of a narrow vote by the General Synod last May. The 166-164 vote against the earlier submission suggested that the Church of Ireland had a diversity of opinion on the abortion issue, said Bishop Miller. Although a number of outlooks co-existed within the church, there was broad agreement with the Lambeth Declaration on abortion which states: ``Christians reject induced abortion, save at the dictate of strict and undeniable medical necessity. ``We are totally agreed in our opposition to abortion on demand. But we recognise that there are circumstances where a termination may be performed, even if, in a few cases, this involves the direct, rather than indirect, termination of the foetus.'' But there was disagreement within the Church on what those exceptions are, other than that of substantial medical risk to the life of the mother.Exceptions debated included foetal abnormality, incest, rape, and where the consequences of full-term delivery could leave the woman a physical or mental wreck. Obstetrician Dr Michael Darling, a former Master of Rotunda Hospital, said he knew of four occasions in the last two-and-a-half years where appropriate treatment for another condition was termination of a pregnancy. ``In one case if we did not (do an abortion) the mother would have had a 50pc chance of dying before the child could be delivered. If there was evacuation of the womb, the chances of her dying would have been of the order of 20-30pc. Such questions arise in cases where the pregnancy is otherwise normal but is exacerbating another clinical situation. ``To me the definition is very clear any removal of pregnancy before viability is an abortion. I think all this question of double-effect is fudging; it may ease your conscience, but to my mind it is an abortion.'' Dr Darling said such dilemma cases arose in ``about one in 30,000 pregnancies, so it is not common, but it does occur''. It was a hypocrisy that 6,000 women were not even seen because they went to Britain for abortion, he said. Liz McManus TD said she was concerned that few women were involved in making submissions. She asked whether the Church of Ireland delegation was satisfied that they were listening to the voices of women within their church. Bishop Miller said the Church of Ireland, although it had women priests, was still emerging from being a male-dominated church.  Importance of mother's life links beliefs SIGNIFICANT numbers of Presbyterians are convinced by arguments for the absolute right to life of the unborn, Dr Trevor Morrow, Moderator of the Presbyterian Church in Ireland told the Oireachtas committee, writes Senan Molony. The Presbyterian Church was at heart a conservative church, he said, and the issue of abortion was dealt with at General Assembly in the 1982 with complete opposition to abortion on demand, for purely social reasons or as a means of birth control. But Dr Morrow said however, that the church does agree with the principle that abortion should be permissible to save the life of the mother where there is a clear and substantial risk of suicide. Methodists meanwhile would prefer a ``purely legislative approach'' to dealing with the question of abortion availability, Robert Cochran, secretary and convenor of the Methodist Church in Ireland, told TDs and Senators yesterday. He said the smallest of the four main churches in the country strongly believed that the matter of abortion should be dealt with by ordinary legislation and not by Constitutional change. ``We are not in favour of widespread or easy abortion, but believe there are a small number of medical circumstances in which it is the lesser of two evils.'' Much more attention should be given to the social and personal circumstances that lead women to seek abortion, he said. Abortion is forbidden in Islam and a crime, unless medically proven that the mother's life is under threat. ``Muslims believe that God knows what is best for us,'' said spokesman Mr Arif Fitzsimon. Muslims believe that life begins at conception and that the foetus has the right to life therefrom. Chapter 76 verse 2 of the Koran states that man is God's product of the mingled fluids male and female. Muslims, however, concede an abortion in circumstances where the continuation of the pregnancy will result in the death of the mother. But a threat of suicide by the mother would not result in the concession of abortion since suicide itself is outlawed in Islam, Sheikh Hussein Halawa (in translation) told Senator John Dardis (PD). 
