abortion
{  
    June 23 2013 03:07 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/gene-kerrigan/the-land-where-courage-is-a-dirty-word-29365752.html }
You can say what you like about those politicians who oppose the government Bill on abortion – and I intend to. But most are clearly acting on principle. And that needs to be acknowledged. And applauded. As in most such controversies, the instinctive stance of many in this abortion debate has been that of the bully. If you vote for this Bill, we'll excommunicate you from the Catholic Church. If you don't vote for this Bill, we'll excommunicate you from Fine Gael. The allegedly "pro-life" crowd declare that anyone who opposes their position is not just wrong, they are agents of "the culture of death". Think as we think or you are innately evil. On the other hand, government politicians threaten: "Think as we think or we'll kick you out of the party." All of which amounts to saying, don't dare to think. Just do as we say. So, it's encouraging when some politicians assert their right to act on their conscience. I think they're wrong on the issue of abortion, but that's another point, and one we'll come to presently. Excuse me, I must digress. I've just had an email complaining about the column so far. "Dear Agent of the Culture of Death – a liar. The Bishops, God Bless and Keep Them, have never, never, NEVER explicitly threatened to excommunicate politicians who vote for the Abortion Bill. Signed, Concerned, Maynooth." That's true. Their Excellencies dare not acknowledge our right to act according to our conscience. But they lack the guts of the bully who will openly threaten revenge on those who don't do as they're told. Their Excellencies just mention the option of excommunication and let it hang there. No one doubts that Peter Mathews TD is acting on his conscience. Last week, at a parliamentary party meeting, he tried to get Fine Gael to allow a free vote on the Bill. He couldn't even get a seconder for the motion. Peter had a few minutes to speak but he kept going for almost an hour. That's Peter. There's always one more sentence he has to speak, because this is the one that will swing the debate. Less is more, Peter. With you, less is more. Lucinda Creighton is risking her ministerial career on the issue. She is patently sincere. Hopefully, she will play this out just as conscientiously. Too often, politicians act on their conscience on issues that force them to break with the party for a while – then, as public memory fades, they slither back in, with a nod and a wink, when the next election looms. There's another point of view – one I share – that says that this Bill is a weak, cowardly failure to deal with the issue of abortion. It says this is a Bill that doesn't even consider, let alone address, current concerns in the matter of abortion. It's a response forced on the Government by the international shaming of this country, following the death of Savita Halappanavar. Finally, the politicians are addressing the concerns of 1992. But, of course, addressing the concerns of 2013 would require thought and courage. And in this would-be republic those are dirty words. On the sidelines, Their Excellencies don't see the need to rush. We've had only 21 years to consider these matters. So, the Government constructs a minimal response to the legislative needs of 1992, then uses the whip system to bully it through parliament. The whip system concentrates power in very few hands. And eliminates the need to think, to form a political position, to argue for it and secure support. As a result, Fine Gael politicians who took seriously the party's anti-abortion stance when elected in 2011 now find themselves threatened with punishment if they act on their consciences. One of them, Senator Paul Bradford, said last week: "All that's important for me is the morning after the vote I will genuinely feel for me I've done the right thing." Well, Paul, that might be all that's important to you – but, there are people for whom abortion isn't an academic matter on which they've arrived at an immovable philosophical position. Let's leave aside victims of rape and incest, women who didn't want to become pregnant and who face enormous consequences, the very young, those who believe themselves too old – the myriad reasons why tens of thousands of Irish women have had abortions in the UK. Take just the women who spoke up recently – calling themselves Termination for Medical Reasons (TFMR). They were happy with their pregnancies, and then received a diagnosis that the babies would live for just seconds or minutes outside the womb. Should they grow the doomed baby to a size of which the alleged "pro-lifers" approve, to then watch it gasp for breath and die? Or should they end the pregnancy? These women acted on their conscience. To do so, they had to go abroad. They asked to be heard, to argue that women in their position not be forced to go abroad. They were ignored – while people just as sincere, such as Senator Paul Bradford, are taken seriously. What separates Senator Bradford from those women? Sixty-three votes, that's what. Senator Bradford got 63 votes, to put him on the Agricultural Panel of the Seanad. Others got more votes – TDs are elected on maybe eight or ten thousand votes. And those votes, cast for a wide selection of reasons – with no connection to abortion – trump everything. And some politicians, reasonably enough, demand the right to act on their conscience. Enda Kenny disagrees. He wants to control the consciences of Peter and Lucinda and Paul and the rest. But they all agree that the TFMR women – and all women – must be denied the right to act on their consciences on this most intimate of all matters. No one is demanding that politicians like Bradford should change their views. If conscience matters, though, it requires us – in matters where there are widely opposed views – to allow others the right to act on their conscience too. Of course, much of this is about throwing shapes. We've set up an abortion infrastructure to take advantage of the abortion services available in the UK. The doctors in our State-funded hospitals will tell you that you've an option to travel. We have – surely uniquely in the world – put a clause into our Constitution that explicitly protects that right to travel, as long as it's for an abortion. And another clause that protects your right to be directed to an abortion clinic. The State-funded hospitals will, on request, send your medical records to the abortion clinic. The State-funded Crisis Pregnancy Agency advertises the State-run medical aftercare and counselling available. None of this is a concern of the allegedly "pro-life" crowd. Their Excellencies in Maynooth are cool with this abortion support infrastructure. The political parties, including the principled anti-abortion politicians, either support or stay quiet about all this. In short – the bulk of our "pro-life" crowd aren't so much anti-abortion. They're anti-abortion on Irish soil. Fearful that women will demand such medical services here, they ignore or actively support the abortion support infrastructure that's been put in place to encourage pregnant women to bugger off to the UK. Conscience? Put that in the same dustbin as thought and courage. Irish Independent 
