abortion
{ Eilis O'Hanlon 
    October 01 2017 08:07 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/hectoring-irish-people-about-abortion-wont-win-a-referendum-36185268.html }
This time next year it may all be over. For years the country has been squabbling fiercely over abortion; the issue has divided families and friends, ruining many a social gathering, and regularly turning the Dail and countless TV studios into battlegrounds. Now that a referendum on repealing the Eighth Amendment, which gives equal weight to the life of an expectant mother and the child in the womb, is finally set to take place next year, an end may be in sight.  At least, that's the theory. In truth, the argument will continue, whatever the result next May or June. There may be a slight hiatus as the losing side slinks off to lick its wounds; but the abortion debate in Ireland is like the so-called national question. It's always with us in one form or another, trying the patience of decent people in the muddled middle, who don't have the total conviction which makes all zealots such tedious company.  It's now more than 40 years since the US Supreme Court's landmark decision in the case of Roe vs Wade, which recognised abortion as a fundamental right under the Constitution, but opponents have not faded away. Even Norma McCorvey, the real woman in Roe vs Wade, who died earlier this year, became a pro-life campaigner in later life. No argument is ever settled in perpetuity. Times change.  Right now in the United States, the fight for abortion rights has been reignited by the election of President Trump, who's indicated that he will sign a bill banning late abortions after 20 weeks, if the vote passes through the Senate in October. The ban would not apply in cases of rape or incest, or where a woman's life was at risk, and there's little to no chance of the Supreme Court overturning the constitutional right to abortion itself; but more hysterical opponents of the Republican president, made giddy from watching too many episodes of The Handmaid's Tale, have convinced themselves that the right to choose is under threat.  Expecting some consensus to emerge from this clash of ideological certainties is like locking a group of drunken Rangers and Celtic fans in a room, and then asking them to compile a list of the greatest football players in history. The mistake is expecting a different outcome every time.  That, though, is how the debate on abortion in Ireland has always been conducted. It's been left in the hands of those who represent extremes. Only 5pc of people are opposed to abortion in all circumstances, including rape, incest, a risk to the mother's life, or fatal foetal abnormality. At the other end, only 23pc want to enshrine a woman's right to abortion in all circumstances, no questions asked. Yet these are the only voices which seem to get heard.  That leaves over seven in 10 people in the middle who want a reasonable compromise between those two positions. The duty of the cross-party committee on the Eighth Amendment must be to find a proposed wording for the constitutional amendment which satisfies that desire for limited, moderate change. The composition suggests that the committee will ultimately produce a form of words that satisfies pro-choicers more than pro-lifers, who don't want change at all. That's fine. Public opinion on abortion has been heading in a liberal direction for some time now. That probably does need to be reflected in the question next summer. It's important, though, that pro-choice campaigners don't overplay their hand. The referendum on same-sex marriage was not won by frightening the horses.  The more radical recommendations of the Citizens' Assembly may be too hard a sell. Is it worth the risk? A writer in Arab News recently reflected on how the Israelis "have one philosophy: take what you can get then slowly change it. Arabs have one philosophy too: Take all or nothing." Hence: "Of course, we have nothing." Now that they can look forward to the referendum for which they've yearned for so long, the pro-choice side likewise needs to seriously ask whether it'd rather lose gloriously by going for broke, or squeak a narrower win on a more middle-of-the-road platform, and build on it over the coming years. Some of the rhetoric so far has not been encouraging. Emer O'Toole, apparently an assistant professor of Irish performance studies (nope, me neither), wrote last week: "While the wording of the referendum text has yet to be confirmed, I wouldn't be surprised if our even-handed political representatives decide on: 'Do you want to give murderous harlots the right to kill innocent children temporarily residing in their uteri?'" Really, professor? I humbly venture to suggest that you would be surprised. Very.  A word of advice for pro-choice campaigners over the coming months - do try to keep this sort of talk to a minimum. Speak the language of Middle Ireland. Don't treat ordinary people as ignorant vassals who need to be educated out of their Catholic-induced ignorance. Concentrate on personal stories. Most of all admit that the subject is complicated. That's where both sides struggle.  Pro-life campaigners are reluctant to admit that most abortions happen very early in a pregnancy, when a foetus really is just a small cluster of cells, because, if terminations were easier to attain, the need for later procedures would correspondingly reduce, and so would the strength of their more emotive, alarmist arguments.  The pro-choice side, meanwhile, twists itself into knots to deny that there are difficult ethical issues which cannot be covered by the simple formula of "a woman's right to choose". The fact that abortion is available to women in the UK carrying Down syndrome babies right up to birth, for example. It's a small number, but it happens.  Actress Sally Phillips, who has a son with Down syndrome, made a film for the BBC to counter what she felt was the undue negativity about "disabled" children, which has been compared in some quarters to a "new eugenics", and which she feels creates a pressure on women to choose abortion that is hard to resist. She faced a mighty backlash. That she's also a Christian did not help her get a fair hearing.  Being pro-choice is great, apparently, unless the choice a woman makes is to be pro-life or to believe in God.  Sex-selective abortion ought to be equally tricky for feminists, as it's usually female foetuses which are aborted because of cultural traditions. Campaigners' preferred method is to brush off concerns and accuse those who raise them as the enemies of women's rights.  This approach doesn't work. The argument between now and the referendum will be won by whoever is prepared to admit that they don't have all the answers. Most Irish people will not head out to vote on the issue with shining, evangelical moral certainty, but to do their muddled best for ordinary women at a difficult time in their lives. Appeal to their decency, don't scold them with sermons.  A woman's decision to have an abortion is made as part of everyday life, not under perfect laboratory conditions. The decision on whether and how far to extend that right will be made the same way.  Sunday Independent 
