abortion
{  
    January 20 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/this-womans-landmark-court-case-led-to-the-legalisation-of-abortion-26199066.html }
Norma McCorvey was the pregnant woman who wanted an abortion and changed American law. Now, 25 years after she won her landmark case, she has become a surprise crusader for the anti-abortion movement.   Ivo Dawnay reports from Dallas For America's Christian fundamentalists, it is a conversion comparable to Saul's famous U-turn on the road to Damascus. Last week, 25 years to the month after Norma McCorvey's case was used to legalise abortion across America, she herself began a nationwide tour for a book that declares the decision was a horrendous mistake that has launched a holocaust. Norma McCorvey is the real name of the woman known as Jane Roe whose seminal case Roe v Wade triggered the 1973 Supreme Court ruling that obliged all 50 states to legalise abortion. For years, she has been fought over by the pro- and anti-abortion lobbies. God won. ``People ask me: `Why are you doing this?' as if it were some treacherous political act,'' she said. ``I reply: `If you are asking that, you ain't never gonna understand'.'' The 50-year-old woman in the sensible blue coat, sitting in a fast-food roadhouse just off Dallas's LBJ freeway, hardly looks like someone who has written her name in every history book in America. A slight whisky voice aside, she doesn't come over as a former pill-popping, booze sluicing, ex-lesbian, reform school tearaway either. It is hard to overestimate Roe v Wade's importance in American political life. Before the 1973 ruling, abortion law a patchwork quilt of largely prohibitive state regulation was simply not a national issue. Conservative presidents such as Nixon and Eisenhower never expressed a view on the matter. After Roe, Ronald Reagan and George Bush rushed to adopt a more hostile stance while Democrats had to dash the other way to keep their careers alive. The catalyst for all this was a smalltown girl from rural Texas who has never actually had an abortion. Her story, with its Biblical echoes of the Lost Sheep, is as close to a modern-day parable as one can imagine. In her own words, Norma McCorvey ``was one of those people who other mothers tell their daughters to stay away from''. She was also rebellious. Before her teens, she publicly denounced her father, a Jehovah's Witness minister, in church for preaching against the evils of smoking and drinking while keeping a packet of cigarettes in his pocket and a bottle in the sideboard. She had three babies but never had an abortion. The first child, born when she was 17, was taken in by her mother; the second adopted. ``I guess the reason I became a lesbian was that every time a man hung his trousers on my bed I was pregnant again,'' she recalls. It was when the third baby inevitably came along that she decided she preferred her life of Corona beer, mescalin, marijuana and pills to motherhood and tried to procure an abortion. She was put in touch with Sarah Weddington and Linda Coffee, two green young lawyers involved in the women's movement in Austin, Texas. What followed is disputed. Miss Norma, as she likes to be known, claims that the two lawyers deceived her into thinking they could get her an abortion, then made her sign an affidavit that gave them the case they needed against the state of Texas the case that eventually went to the Supreme Court. To do that, her pregnancy had to go to term. ``They wanted to change a law, I wanted to have an abortion,'' Miss Norma remembers. ``They said: `Norma, don't you want to exercise your rights to have control over your own body?' They never said: `Don't you know you are signing an affidavit to execute the next three generations of children'?'' Ms Weddington who went on to become a heroine of the women's movement said Norma knew exactly what she was doing. ``I no longer make any comment on anything she does or says,'' she said. But Miss Norma was outraged when she discovered recently that Ms Weddington herself had had an abortion in Mexico just a year before. ``She could have helped me, and she promised to be there when the baby was born but she wasn't.'' Whatever the truth, Miss Norma continued on her downward spiral after the Supreme Court ruling. Yet even the fog of pills and beer could not shut out her obsession with the abortion issue; it dogged her like an unshakeable hangover. She went to work in a Dallas abortion clinic to champion the pro-choice cause. Unlike Saul's conversion, however, her change of heart came gradually, in stages. One important shift came on the day an obviously heavily pregnant woman came to the clinic. ``I told her: `What are you doing here? That baby must be kicking.' But she said she wanted it killed.'' Blinded with grief and guilt, Miss Norma stormed home to another three week love-in with her drinks cabinet. Then came the twist of fate that pro-lifers insist was divine intervention. In 1995 Operation Rescue, one of the most militant anti-abortion groups, was, by pure serendipity, offered premises next to the Dallas clinic. Both organisations were at first horrified. But OR's charismatic leader, the Rev Flip Benham, took up the heavenly gauntlet. A former hell-raising saloon bar owner from Florida, Benham's methods have included mass civil disobedience leading to 65,000 arrests among his supporters. To Miss Norma, they were nothing less than ``pro-life terrorists''. But she was also intrigued by his good looks, his passion and his heart-tugging entourage of mothers and children. One day, during yet another demonstration, the Rev Flip addressed his words directly at Miss Norma. ``Norma McCorvey,'' he thundered, ``you have ushered in the wholesale slaughter of more than 35 million little boys and girls. You should be ashamed.'' At the same time another force was acting on her ground down spirit. An angelic eight-year-old called Emily Mackey had been pleading with Miss Norma to go to church with her. She was close to buckling. But the straw that broke her was Benham's contrite apology for his hard words that and the relentlessly unjudgmental goodwill of her opponents. Within a few weeks of finally accepting Emily's invitation to church, she was baptised by Benham in the unromantic surroundings of a Dallas swimming pool. So this is a story of the double exploitation of a vulnerable, guilt stricken totem of a national controversy a sordid ideological quarrel over a person as a symbol. Both sides are equally guilty of using Miss Norma for their own ends, regardless of her own feelings. There is, however, no doubting the raw force of her newfound conviction. ``People have got to understand that it is not `my body, my rights','' she passionately insists. ``It is the taking of a life, and the only person who has the right to take life is the Lord Jesus Christ.'' The serious point over, she laughs. ``At that point, the liberal, secular press usually leave . . . they can just about manage the word God but saying Jesus means that we are usually one question from the end of the interview.'' Though she uses the familiar rhetoric of the born-again, Norma still has the semblance of her former red-blooded, hell-raising self. Now and again a swear word slips out and she confesses to the occasional pang for a `joint' and a belly-full of ice-cold Corona. But she resists. She will even admit to not seeing the repeal of Roe v Wade as her primary goal. ``I want it, of course. But my chief aim now is to do some good.'' When the story of her conversion first broke more than a year ago, it was given little more than cursory coverage by the American media, implicitly suggesting that Norma was too frail and tragic a figure to merit close scrutiny. In 25 years, American public opinion has barely budged on abortion. Many are able to live with the grubby paradox that accepts abortion is murder, but also believe it is a woman's right to choose. Yet the pro-lifers are confident for the long term. Nationally, the number of abortions performed has dropped to its 1976 level, clinics are closing and doctors are shunning the work. It is hard to be sure where Norma McCorvey will be several years down the line. But she herself is filled with optimism, though honest enough to confess to the occasional lapses into melancholy when tired. Her solution is to talk to Jesus. ``You won't believe this but the other night I was wrestling with a problem and I asked for a sign. There was a power cut. And suddenly, my electric alarm clock began to flash.''  * The Sunday Telegraph 
