abortion
{ Michael Gottstein 
    September 02 2008 04:09 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/now-is-the-time-to-act-to-protect-your-sheep-from-aborting-agents-26475558.html }
Every year around lambing time I get quite a few queries about sheep that are aborting. Unfortunately, in most situations, once the sheep start aborting there are only limited steps that can be taken. The first thing to do when an abortion happens is to send samples (foetus and placenta) to a laboratory for analysis to identify the causal agent. According to the Regional Veterinary Laboratories Report (2006), 22.4pc of abortion samples submitted to the various regional veterinary laboratories in Ireland tested positive for Enzootic abortion, with slightly less, 18.4pc, testing positive for Toxoplasmosis. According to the results, these are the main two abortion-causing agents in Ireland. So, how are these diseases contracted? If we look at enzootic abortion first, we can see that the main carrier is an infected ewe. Therefore, on a farm where there is currently no enzootic abortion, you can safeguard your flock by not buying in any female stock. If, however, you have already had a positive case of enzootic abortion on the farm, you can expect the disease to be passed onto other sheep, during and post-lambing, by carrier animals. It is important to note that rams do not spread this disease. Toxoplasmosis is a different disease -- in so far as it is not so much a sheep-to-sheep disease -- but requires cats and infected mice to complete the life cycle. For this reason, it is not possible to prevent toxoplasmosis infection from entering the flock by avoiding buying in stock. Neither is it a good idea to get rid of all the cats on the farm as this will not eliminate wild/stray cats which will frequent your farm. Because there are so many different abortion-causing agents, it is important to take a multi-pronged approach to reducing the risks of infection to your flock. Even though your ewes may only start aborting in late pregnancy, the aborting agent has frequently been picked up several weeks earlier. Good hygiene, in terms of feed, water and bedding, is an important step that should always be taken. Avoid buying replacements, and by breeding your own you can reduce the risk of diseases, such as enzootic and campylobacter. In addition to these steps, there are vaccines available to combat the two main causes of abortion (enzootic abortion -- Enzovax) and toxoplasmosis -- Toxovax). These vaccines contain live organisms and therefore have a limited shelf life (only 10 days with the toxoplasmosis vaccine, Toxovax) and a very short life once they have been diluted/ reconstituted (two hours for both vaccines). It is therefore important that vaccines are ordered in time and, in the case of the Toxovax, that they are administered within a few days of delivery. Because the vaccines contain live strains of the disease-causing organism, they are not suitable for administering to sheep close to, or during, the breeding season. This means that you need to plan your vaccination programme to ensure that it is completed at least four weeks before mating is due to begin for Enzovax, and at least three weeks before the start of the mating season for Toxovax. Vaccination is relatively expensive, but in most farm situations, a single shot given to the hogget ewes entering the flock each year is enough to maintain a good level of immunity. On farms where there has been a history of abortions from either toxoplasmosis or enzootic abortion, vaccination can represent a good investment. Most farmers who vaccinate view the payback in terms of reducing losses due to abortions, and reduced labour at lambing time in terms of dealing with aborting sheep and weak and sick lambs. Where ram turn out is planned for early October, vaccination needs to be carried out immediately. Most veterinary suppliers will not stock these vaccines, so they have to be ordered in advance. You will need to get your skates on if you intend to vaccinate for the coming year. 
