abortion
{  
    February 03 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/haunted-by-the-abortion-issue-26238986.html }
FOR the fifth time in nearly 20 years, the Irish electorate will next month go the polls to vote in a constitutional  referendum on the abortion issue. Since 1861, abortion has  been outlawed under criminal law and in 1983 this legal ban was reinforced by a constitutional prohib FOR the fifth time in nearly 20 years, the Irish electorate will next month go the polls to vote in a constitutional referendum on the abortion issue. Since 1861, abortion has been outlawed under criminal law and in 1983 this legal ban was reinforced by a constitutional prohibition. This was an attempt to fit a secure double lock against the introduction of abortion in this country. Making abortion both illegal and unconstitutional was designed to ensure that neither the Oireachtas by legislation, nor the Supreme Court by legal judgment, could ever introduce it. This double protection against abortion in Ireland, however, has made no difference to many Irish women in crisis pregnancies. In reality, little or nothing has changed for them. Before 1983, some 3,500 women travelled abroad annually, mainly to England, to terminate unwanted pregnancies. And since then the numbers have doubled. Now 20 women leave this country every day to have that operation. The terms of the 1983 amendment to the constitution sought to guarantee an equal right to life of both the mother and her unborn child. The obvious question raised by such an ambiguous wording was how to reconcile the conflicting legal claims when the rights of both parties clashed. The Oireachtas, in what was an inexcusable failure, never introduced legislation to clarify the matter. So once again it was left to the courts to resolve. In 1992, the Supreme Court judgment in the X case established a right to legal abortion in a very restricted set of circumstances. A young teenage rape victim who became pregnant had threatened to take her own life. The court found she had a right to terminate her pregnancy in Ireland. A further referendum that year, which sought to repeal the Supreme Court decision, and remove the suicide risk as ground for abortion, was defeated. Consequently, for the past decade the Supreme Court ruling has applied. However, since then the right to a legal abortion has only been exercised once, in the C case. The Oireachtas again failed to legislate to implement the Supreme Court decision by setting out the terms and conditions to govern legal abortion arising from such a suicide risk. The Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern, has claimed that to do so now would open a gateway to freely available "social abortion" in this country. Yet, after 10 years in which such a very limited legal right has existed, there is no evidence this has happened, or necessarily would happen. Mr Ahern's concern is that in legislating for the decision in the X case, the grounds for termination of a pregnancy would be extended and abortion would become more widely available. But that very much depends on how tightly the legislation is drawn. The challenge in holding this referendum was to try and secure a broad consensus for any change proposed in our abortion laws. But, as the latest opinion polls show, the Government has failed to achieve this aim. The amendment may well be defeated on March 6 and, paradoxically, the pressure to legislate to implement the Supreme Court decision will increase rather than diminish in consequence. If that happens it will represent a double defeat for the Taoiseach. He will have lost a second important referendum during his tenure in office, a matter of months before a general election. And that defeat may well serve to accelerate the introduction of legislation to implement the Supreme Court ruling. In reality, however, whether this constitutional amendment is rejected or endorsed by the people will have little bearing on the number of Irish women who have abortions each year. For this is far more likely to be influenced by the success or failure of efforts to persuade those in crisis pregnancies to have less recourse to abortion, and to consider other options. In this regard, the Government's decision to establish a Crisis Pregnancy Agency on a statutory basis to combat crisis pregnancy is the most meaningful and significant decision of all. Yet it could, and should, have been introduced at any time in the past two decades, during which Irish people voted in no fewer than four referendums on aspects of the abortion question. The new agency does not require a constitutional change to be introduced before it can be established. It is not a divisive issue. And it is the most effective means of tackling a problem that has absorbed far too much of the time and attention of politicians, pressure groups and ordinary people, to very little real effect; and as the 7,000 Irish women who seek British abortions each year only serve to indicate. 
