abortion
{  
    May 06 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-full-cost-of-an-irish-solution-26254525.html }
SOAPBOX By GENE KERRIGAN     WHAT WERE they up to, we wondered, the best part of 20 years ago? Suddenly, whole platoons of intense people were ...  SOAPBOX By GENE KERRIGAN WHAT WERE they up to, we wondered, the best part of 20 years ago? Suddenly, whole platoons of intense people were popping up demanding a referendum on abortion. The issue had to be put out of the reach of politicians, they warned, or one day we would wake up to find that abortion was being forced on us. The whole thing seemed daft. Abortion was illegal. This was the Ireland in which you had to get a doctor's prescription for condoms. And you practically had to get a note from your mother, countersigned by the local garda sergeant, before you'd get a chemist to fill the prescription. What political party, we wondered, would dare risk the wrath of the electorate by even discussing abortion, let alone legislating for it? We shook our heads in amusement. These people were nuts. And before you could say pistachio there was a general election pending and the intense people cornered Charlie Haughey and Garret FitzGerald. Each terrified of being out-manoeuvred by the other, the two gave solemn pledges to hold a referendum on banning abortion. What the intense people were up to, in the words of one of them, was turning Ireland into a ``beacon of morality'', an example to the world. They needed a victory, to halt the spread of secularism. And abortion unlike contraception or sex education was an issue on which they knew they couldn't lose. Eighteen years, and four abortion referenda later, an Oireachtas committee is taking evidence on abortion, with a possible fifth referendum on its way. Each year, five thousand Irish women have abortions in England. And the clash of medical evidence heard last week was starker than any we heard throughout the past two decades. At the Oireachtas committee, eminent doctors said as they have always said that there are no circumstances in which a pregnant woman needs an abortion to save her life. We got the usual argument that abortion involves the direct killing of the foetus; and what Irish doctors do is treat the woman. And if the foetus dies as a result of the treatment it is an indirect killing, so it's not abortion. Therefore, these doctors argue, we should have an absolute ban on abortion. And we had this: ``Do I take it that you believe that in certain rare circumstances direct abortion is necessary to save the life of the mother?'' ``Correct,'' said Dr Declan Keane, Master of the National Maternity Hospital. The struggle going on in the background and which will erupt into the public arena probably in the autumn comes from an attempt by the intense people to patch up the mess created by their 1983 referendum and the consequent X Case decision by the Supreme Court. Since the procedures followed in Irish hospitals are not abortions, they say, an absolute ban on abortion won't affect current practice. Against this, we have the frank evidence of the likes of Dr Keane. He is not pro-abortion. While working in England he opted out of performing abortions and he gave evidence last week that if abortion was legalised here he believes that most of his colleagues would refuse to perform them. Yet, Dr Keane believes that an absolute ban on abortion would outlaw procedures that are followed in Irish hospitals today. And he illustrated how such procedures have always been followed, and how doctors use wordplay to disguise the fact that abortions are sometimes carried out for medical reasons. ``They would have performed a hysterectomy procedure and perhaps called it a caesarean section in an attempt to try and fudge the issue and avoid the legal implications of what they had just done. It is a termination of pregnancy, no matter what way you look at it.'' Dr Peter McKenna, Master of the Rotunda, said such procedures have traditionally been referred to in Irish hospitals as ``treatment''. He said: ``The difference may be quite as simple as somebody being able to say to themselves, well, there is no abortion in Ireland. That's, you know, where we can all rest assured in our beds at night.'' Dr McKenna: ``It appears that if you are acting in good faith and you're absolutely certain that the woman would die, that that is referred to as treatment. ``It's not that it's a side-effect of the treatment; its not that it's an unintentional side-effect of the treatment, the treatment is you end the pregnancy. That is, I think, abortion. ``Therefore, putting a total constitutional ban on abortion will inevitably, maybe not this year, maybe not next year but the year after, inevitably somebody's life is going to be put at risk. If they don't leave the country, either the doctor is going to have to break the law or the woman is going to die.'' These are rare cases, but real cases, where abortions have to be performed or the woman dies. There is Eisenmenger's syndrome, in which blood is circulated without being reoxygenated by the lungs; there is HELLP, Haemolysis Elevated Liver Enzymes and Low Platelets; there are complex cardiac conditions, extreme high blood pressure. There was a woman in Holles Street in 1998 whose HELLP condition was threatening her liver. She was seen by a liver specialist who said that she would die if the pregnancy continued. An abortion was needed to save her life. From the very rare cases where abortion saves the woman's life, the argument goes on to conditions such as anencephaly, where the foetus has no brain. It is kept alive by the mother's body. As soon as it is born it will die. Some women want to see such a pregnancy through the whole nine months and that is their right. Some don't. Those with the money have the choice of going to England. Ireland has a high rate of cystic fibrosis. Caring for one such child is draining; if a second and third arrive it is not just a matter of fatigue, there is a problem of cross-infection, threatening the life of the first. Dr Brian Denham raised the possibility of abortion being made available, under the supervision of the hospital ethics committee. Dr Anthony Clare said that pregnant victims of rape and incest should have a right to abortion. And these are just the doctors. The more knowledgeable witnesses on pregnancy i.e. women have yet to be heard. All of last week's witnesses were male. Dr Peter McKenna was sceptical. ``I think that nothing that's going to come out of this is going to really impinge dramatically on the five thousand women who leave this country each year for an abortion.'' The hearings are useful, they provide important information, but in truth we found an Irish solution to the abortion problem in 1992. We voted not to allow abortion even when the woman's life is at risk. We voted instead to provide information on abortion in England and to insert into the constitution a clause protecting the right of pregnant women to travel abroad for an abortion. We sub-contracted our abortions to English clinics. We are unlikely to change that convenient set-up. 
