abortion
{ Medb Ruane 
    October 27 2007 05:55 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/why-is-a-woman-who-has-an-abortion-automatically-excommunicated-from-the-church-while-a-paedophile-is-not-26327549.html }
Torrential rains splatter builders on a site in the Midlands. Drop tools, rush for shelter to a derelict shed with a rusty corrugated roof. Sunk into brambles and rubbish inside lie the remains of a very premature baby. Had a terrified local girl gone into labour and sought refuge? Was the infant murdered or too premature to survive? The story reads like Ireland 1900 but the date was 2006. The dead infant was the result of a botched abortion. The woman was a young Eastern European immigrant and her abortionist an older man who took all her money before risking her life to induce labour. It was unspeakable, so we didn't. When details emerged in court, the facts were reported without analysis. David Steele introduced the 1967 Abortion Act in Britain to stop such exploitation. Backstreet abortions then were killing around 50 women a year, all poor and desperate because they couldn't afford discreet Harley Street doctors or travel to the continent. Some were Irish. Marie was a young Irish immigrant in 1960s London when she fell for a law student from an African family and, in the whirlwind of first love, became pregnant. How could she bring home a black grandchild? She told her story in a little book called The Irish Journey, published just before the last abortion referendum. Through a seedy route, she met an abortionist whose lack of skill provoked a massive haemorrhage that led to Marie being admitted to St Mary's Paddington. The doctor called the police and she was interrogated while dizzy from blood loss and delirious with pain. Had they not caught the septicaemia in time, she would have died. Marie is a pensioner now, living in Ireland along with some 100,000 citizens who availed of Steele's 1967 Act. He deserves thanks for sparing other citizens what she went through. For many, many people, North and South, Britain became a refuge offering one resolution, giving safe medical environments where people weren't treated like lepers. The inter-generational character of abortion in Ireland is rarely mentioned but in reality it's a big secret we all keep. Our mothers, sisters, daughters, friends, even our grand-aunts and their cousins have been subject to the 1967 Act in the absence of any realistic provision in Ireland. Some conceived after incest or rape, some conceived accidentally, some wanted a baby but, like Miss D, found that it wasn't viable outside the womb and very reluctantly had a termination. With Steele's Act de facto law for most Irish citizens who consider abortion, the current British debate is directly relevant to managing abortion in Ireland. Calculating precise numbers here is difficult, because soon after the last referendum the UK Department of Health began to collate the statistics instead of the independent British Pregnancy Advisory Service, as previously. Immediately the Irish figures began to show a decrease, which was convenient politically. What a growing majority see as the fake ethics of the Irish debate has led to an avoidance of specific ethical and human issues in and around abortion. Such as access, options, information, time limits, the backlash against professionals who opt in or opt out. Or, for Roman Catholics, the question of why a woman who has an abortion is automatically excommunicated while a paedophile or other serious sinner can remain within their church. The current time limit of 24 weeks now being debated in Britain speaks here to a uniquely Irish culture of late abortions, with Irish women having three times more second-trimester abortions -- and more after 20 weeks -- than any other group. This late abortion culture happens not because Ireland has a three-times higher rate of fatal foetal conditions but because the debate is still presented in black-or-white terms. The blanket abortion ban doesn't distinguish between eight weeks and 22 weeks. Once wrong, all wrong. Hands washed of responsibility. Excepting extreme cases such as Miss D and others, it is surely ethically smarter to have an abortion as early as possible, both for the woman's health and for a fast-developing foetus. Most people know this almost intuitively and those who don't, such as the desperate immigrant in the Midlands, should be given this information in a clear, unbiased way. But there's another reason, sprung from money, information and an anti-abortion policy of delay, delay, delay. Despite the spin that women can easily afford to jet off for an abortion, pay the costs privately and be home in time for an evening party, this isn't typical. First, it's pricey -- over €1,000. Second, it can be difficult to get sound, unbiased information, especially outside urban areas. And if you have kids already, there's the small matter of a babysitter. This takes time. So while the Catholic hierarchy is arguing with the Crisis Pregnancy Agency about one mention of abortion in a leaflet (a leaflet?), effectively denying people their constitutional right to information, perhaps the real world can start reflecting on the ethical cost of keeping the country within the 25pc most restrictive places on the planet, courtesy of the liberal laws next door. Late abortions, profound denial and dead babies in Midlands sheds... But everyone's hands are clean. 
