abortion
{  
    December 14 2017 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/politics/where-does-committee-stand-and-whats-the-next-step-36407133.html }
The Committee on the Eighth Amendment is to deliver the report containing its recommendations to the Dáil and the Health Minister Simon Harris on Wednesday. There will be debates on the committee's proposals in the Dáil and Seanad next month. If there is to be a referendum on abortion next summer, such as a vote to repeal the Eighth Amendment, Mr Harris would have to bring a referendum Bill to the Dáil in February. Taoiseach Leo Varadkar has said he would like to see a question put to the public as early as May. Meanwhile, Mr Harris has been working with the Attorney General's office to prepare for the various scenarios in which abortion could be permitted, depending on what the committee recommends. Jan O’Sullivan – Labour, Limerick City Pro-choice TD Ms O’Sullivan put forward the proposal that the committee would vote to recommend that the Eighth Amendment be removed from the constitution. Brid Smith – People Before Profit, Dublin Sth-Central Strongly pro-choice, she raised concern that insisting on publishing details of laws that would be put in place if the Eighth Amendment was removed would delay a referendum. Jonathan O’Brien – Sinn Féin, Cork Nth-Central Joined Sinn Féin colleagues in abstaining on the 12-week vote. He is in favour of repealing the Eighth and allowing abortion in cases of fatal foetal abnormality. Kate O’Connell – Fine Gael, Dublin Bay South The most liberal Fine Gael TD on the committee, she backed repeal, terminations for fatal foetal abnormality and the 12-week limit. She also backed the rejected 22-week proposal. Senator Jerry Buttimer – Fine Gael Said the committee was an example of the Oireachtas “doing its work properly”. The Cork-based Senator voted in favour of repeal and of allowing abortions up to 12 weeks. Anne Rabbitte – Fianna Fáil, Galway East Spoke passionately in favour of better sex education. She opposed repeal and allowing abortions up to 12 weeks but voted in favour of terminations in cases of fatal foetal abnormality. Catherine Murphy – Social Democrats, Kildare North Pro-choice on repeal, the 12-week limit and fatal foetal abnormality, Ms Murphy was against allowing terminations for socio-economic reasons. Senator Lynn Ruane – Independent A strong pro-choice advocate. She proposed allowing for abortions up to 22 weeks and for socio-economic reasons. Both proposals were rejected by the majority of the committee. Senator Ronan Mullen – Independent Opposed abortion in all cases. He argued Ireland had been “beacon of human” rights since the Eighth Amendment was introduced and it was one of the safest places in the world to have a baby. Billy Kelleher  – Fianna Fáil, Cork Nth-Central In favour of repeal, the 12-week time limit and allowing terminations for fatal foetal abnormality. Stressed need for committee not to be “over prescriptive”. Senator Ned O’Sullivan – Fianna Fáil Has spoken of how process has changed his view on abortion and he would vote for a “pro-woman” law. He backed repeal, the 12-week limit and terminations in fatal foetal abnormality cases. Hildegarde Naughton – Fine Gael, Galway West Holding pro-life views, Ms Naughton voted against repeal but did offer support for allowing the use of the abortion pill up to 12 weeks provided it was regulated. Bernard Durkan TD – Fine Gael, Kildare North Veteran TD is in favour of repeal and voted for the 12-week termination time limit without restriction, citing the availability of abortion pills and the need to supervise their use. Louise O’Reilly – Sinn Féin, Dublin Fingal Backed repeal of the Eighth citing the numbers of women travelling to Britain for abortions. She abstained on the vote to allow abortions up to 12 weeks. Mattie McGrath – Independent, Tipperary The most vocal pro-life TD on the committee, outspoken Mr McGrath was among three members who opposed repeal and abortions in all cases. Clare Daly –Independents 4 Change, Dublin Fingal A strongly pro-choice TD, Ms Daly voted in favour of abortion for socio-economic reasons and for up to 22 weeks, both proposals rejected by the committee. Senator Catherine Noone – Fine Gael The chair of the committee, she abstained on almost all votes. She backed allowing for abortion in cases of fatal foetal abnormality as she put it because “I feel so strongly on this one”. Peter Fitzpatrick  – Fine Gael, Louth Voted against repeal and abortion in all circumstances. His claim that an unborn child has a heartbeat at 21 days was rejected by party colleague Kate O’Connell as incorrect. Lisa Chambers – Fianna Fáil, Mayo Among  members who proposed allowing abortion without restriction up to 12 weeks due to complexity of legislating for rape and incest. She voted in favour of this and the repeal question. Senator Paul Gavan – Sinn Féin The Sinn Féin senator joined party colleagues Louise O’Reilly and Jonathan O’Brien in abstaining from the 12-week vote but supporting repeal. James Browne ­– Fianna Fáil, Wexford He voted against repealing the Eighth Amendment, against abortions without restriction up to 12 weeks, but in favour of allowing terminations in the case of fatal foetal abnormality. Irish Independent 
