abortion
{ IVANA BACIK 
    September 10 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/time-to-legislate-for-actual-needs-of-irish-women-26138062.html }
THE publication of the Green Paper on abortion is to be welcomed. It contains a comprehensive overview of the options available to the Government in dealing with abortion. The paper presents seven options, or possible constitutional and legislative approaches, which will now be referred to a Governmental committee for consideration. The options range from another referendum providing for an absolute ban on abortion, to a liberal regime of the type provided in many European countries, whereby abortion is available at the request of the pregnant woman until a certain number of weeks' gestation. The breadth of options considered is extremely useful, and the non-judgmental tone adopted in the paper is also to be commended. It confines itself to presenting the views of those who made submissions, without committing itself to a position on any of the options. From a pro-choice perspective, a number of the options certainly deserve consideration. Option 7 is the only one that is clearly pro-choice in tone, in that it would allow for abortion to be legal on grounds beyond those provided in the X Case. But as a very minimum, those of us concerned about the health and well-being of pregnant women would consider that option 5 is long overdue for implementation by the Government. This is the option of maintaining the present constitutional position, but enacting legislation to regulate abortion in the circumstances defined by the X Case, ie where a woman's life is threatened by continuance of her pregnancy. The public reaction to both the X and C Cases, together with the rejection by the people in November 1992 of a proposed amendment which would have restricted the X Case test, clearly demonstrate that Irish people recognise the need for abortion, at least where necessary to save the life of a pregnant woman. So-called `pro-life' campaigners contend that direct abortion is never necessary to save the life of a pregnant woman. But, as the working group states, in very restrained terms, ``the evidence on this point is not conclusive and ... the contention remains controversial''. It would be unacceptable for the lives of Irish women to be left hanging in the balance upon a controversial contention such as this, based on flimsy medical evidence. Any constitutional referendum aimed at limiting the X Case, either to rule out the risk of suicide as a ground for abortion, or to rule out abortion altogether, would endanger the lives of pregnant women. It would require us to disregard the equal right to life of the woman which is currently enshrined in the Constitution, and to promote the right to life of the foetus above that of a living person. Any such referendum must be rejected as an option by the Government. Moreover, there have been four referenda about abortion in the past 16 years. None of these have stopped Irish women having abortions; 6,000 Irish women had abortions in the last year alone. What is needed is a real commitment from the Government to address the number of crisis pregnancies, and to put in place legislation that provides for the actual needs of Irish women. We must ensure that, as a minimum, legislation is introduced to provide for abortion in Ireland when a woman's life is at risk. The Fianna Fail Government pledged to do this in November 1992, to implement the Supreme Court judgment in the X Case. Nearly seven years have now passed since that pledge. It is simply not good enough that thousands of women every year are forced to travel abroad for abortions which they need, while our judges are expected to deal with individual tragic cases as they arise, without any guidance from the legislature. Without any further tampering with the Constitution, it is essential that the Government at least introduce legislation to allow for abortion where a woman's life is at risk. It would then be possible to assess the real needs of Irish women. Ultimately, only the option presented in the Green Paper for a liberal law on abortion would at last provide recognition of the reality of crisis pregnancy in this country.  * Ivana Bacik is Reed Professor of Law at TCD 
