abortion
{ Deirdre Madden 
    February 21 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/abortion-debate-proves-as-divisive-as-ever-26059328.html }
WITH UNDER two weeks to go to polling the temperature  and tenor of the abortion debate has risen sharply. There are a number of difficult medical and legal questions raised  by the referendum, such as whether an abortion is ever an appropriate treatment for a suicidal woman and whether  access to emergency contraception will be affected if the referendum is passed, with consequences for the number of unwanted pregnancies. Some of those who urge a "Yes" vote claim that, unless this particular Bill is enshrined in the Constitution, Ireland will have a very liberal abortion regime. In my opinion, this is an inaccurate representation of the legal position that has existed in Ireland since the X case ten years ago. The only way in which the situation would be liberal is that there is currently no time limit on the availability of an abortion to a woman who comes within the X case, that is, a woman whose life is endangered by the pregnancy, including the risk of suicide. It would not be liberal in terms of access to an abortion in the first place, as the woman's medical condition would have to be such that her life is in danger, something quite rare in practice, or if she is suicidal. It seems to be very mistrustful of the medical profession, and of women, to suggest that women not in that position could persuade a doctor to perform an abortion if such was not strictly necessary on medical grounds. It is also relevant that in fact the Medical Council recently adopted a position similar to that in the Bill, that is, that a termination may take place if the woman's life is in danger, excluding the risk of suicide. It is unlikely that a registered medical practitioner would risk losing his or her livelihood and reputation by performing an abortion on a woman outside of such circumstances. One of the other controversial issues that has arisen in the context of the proposed abortion referendum focuses on the position of a young girl in the care of the State who finds herself pregnant and, not coming within the exemption which would allow her to have a termination in the State, wishes to go abroad for a termination. If a child is considered by a health board to be at serious risk of harm, the health board is obliged to make an application to the court for an order under the Child Care Act 1991 taking that child into care or for supervision of the child. Between the making of an application for a care order and the actual hearing involved, the court may make an interim or temporary order to maintain the child in the care of the health board for a short period. On an application by the health board and following a hearing, a more permanent or long-lasting care order can be made by the District Court which can vary in length up to the child reaching adulthood. Under the Act, where a care order is in force, the health board is to have the same control over the child as if it were the child's parents. In the C case in 1997, the District Court made an order under the Child Care Act directing that a young girl, who was under an interim care order, be permitted to travel abroad for the purposes of terminating her pregnancy. "Medical treatment" in this case was held to include termination of pregnancy. The court held that the travel amendment was framed in negative terms and meant that nobody could be prevented from traveling abroad for an abortion. It said that a court, in considering the welfare of an Irish child in Ireland and considering whether on health grounds a termination of pregnancy was necessary, must be confined to considering the grounds for termination which would be lawful under the Irish Constitution and cannot make a direction authorising travel to another jurisdiction for a different kind of abortion. However, in this case the young girl was deemed to be suicidal within the terms of the Supreme Court judgment in the X case and therefore a termination would have been lawful in the State. The terms of the present proposal contained in the referendum are similar to the existing Constitutional provision, with section 4 (1) also being couched in negative terms. It provides that the Act does not limit freedom to travel to obtain an abortion, and subsection (2) provides that a person cannot be prevented from traveling abroad for an abortion even though she could not lawfully have an abortion in the State. Therefore, for a child in the care of the State who becomes pregnant and wishes to have an abortion which would not come within the terms of the Act, her only right is not to be prevented from traveling abroad for those purposes. She does not have a right to an abortion outside the State which may be enforced by her or on her behalf. She would have to ask the State in whose care she now resides to facilitate her plans. If she is in the permanent care of the health board under a care order, the health board could make such a decision in place of her parents. However, given the sensitivity of this issue it is doubtful that health boards would in fact make such decisions, that they would do so without seeking the protection of a court sanction, and that practices across the eight health boards would be consistent. If the girl is under an interim care order, this would necessitate the Health Board with authority for her care making an application under the Child Care Act 1991 to the District Court for directions allowing the girl to be brought outside the State for a termination. The issue remains as to whether the State would pay for such a procedure. Another issue raised by the wording of the Bill is the position of women who perhaps cannot afford to travel abroad for a termination and who attempt to carry out a termination of their own pregnancies. Section 2 of the Bill provides that no person shall carry out or effect an abortion in the State. Subsection 3 provides that a person who attempts to contravene section 2 will be guilty of an offence punishable by up to 12 years imprisonment or a fine or both. This means that a woman who tries to self-abort would be liable to prosecution under this section. Dr Deirdre Madden is a Lecturer in Law at UCC 
