abortion
{ Shane Coleman 
    April 26 2017 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/shane-coleman/enda-has-left-an-abortion-time-bomb-ticking-for-his-successor-35654755.html }
'Thanks a bloody million, Enda'. They'll never say so publicly, but that must have been the private reaction of both Leo Varadkar and Simon Coveney last Sunday night when news came through of the deliberations of the Citizens' Assembly. The results from a series of votes on abortion by assembly members stunned Leinster House. Nobody saw it coming - certainly not the Taoiseach when he came up with the wheeze of an assembly to park the abortion issue before the last General Election. Make no mistake, a political time bomb has been set, even if Enda Kenny, Teflon-like as ever, will be safely in retirement in Castlebar by the time it goes off. It will be left to his successor to deal with the fall-out. The potential for things to go very wrong is huge. A quarter of a century ago, Albert Reynolds' tenure as taoiseach arguably never recovered from his less than assured handling of the 'X' case and the subsequent referendum. Neither Mr Varadkar nor Mr Coveney were politicians back then, but they will be acutely aware of what happened and what can happen. And, there's little doubt the next abortion referendum - now inevitable and likely to happen in 2018 - is going to be the most complex, and perhaps contentious, yet. From a political perspective, the complexity has only increased after the votes of the Citizens' Assembly. The pro-choice side was understandably cock-a-hoop at the results. If the assembly is genuinely representative of the Irish public then the introduction of a liberal abortion regime, not unlike that of the UK, is preordained. But the problem is that the results could hardly be more different from consistent polling of the Irish public - including a hugely detailed survey just last month - on the issue. That latest poll found, similar to the Citizens' Assembly, strong support for a change to our abortion laws. But, in stark contrast to the assembly, it suggested the public remained quite conservative about the circumstances in which abortion should be allowed. It's worth recapping how the Citizens' Assembly members voted. They wanted the Oireachtas to be authorised to legislate on abortion. A large majority (72pc) backed terminations for socio-economic reasons. There was also 64pc support for abortion without restrictions. Contrast this outcome with the most recent poll on abortion. Just 28pc of voters then backed the idea of the Oireachtas legislating on abortion. Also in that poll, a big majority (60pc) rejected the legalisation of abortion where a woman "would be unable to cope because of age or circumstances". Again, just 28pc favoured this option. There were many differences between the results of the Citizens' Assembly and the recent opinion polls on abortion. But ultimately it boils down to this: based on the recent poll findings, it was reasonable to conclude that 28pc of voters could be deemed 'pro-choice', with 10pc of people opposed to abortion in all circumstances, or 'pro-life', and a majority of voters somewhere in between. Yet, according to the results of the Citizens' Assembly vote, a minimum of 64pc - and arguably 72pc - are effectively pro-choice. Why the difference and which is a more accurate reflection of public opinion? It's possible of course that, having listened for hours to the detailed arguments on both sides, the power of the pro-choice case swayed voters. And it's possible that this could happen in a referendum. But it's also equally possible that, despite best efforts, the 88 people who voted last Sunday at the assembly are not an accurate representation of the Irish public. However, there's no question the results have dramatically altered the debate's narrative - in the process creating potential problems for both the pro-life and pro-choice sides. The worry for the pro-life groups is that the resounding vote of the assembly will create an unstoppable momentum, resulting in a radical liberalisation of our abortion laws. The concern for the pro-choice side is the assembly will create unrealistic expectations in its camp of what the Irish electorate will ultimately vote for. Privately, many politicians - who, whatever you might think of them, know the electorate better than anyone - think there is no chance of the Citizens' Assembly result being replicated in a referendum. So what should the strategy of the Coalition to Repeal the Eighth Amendment be? Does it insist on nothing short of a simple referendum to get rid of/replace the Eighth Amendment and allow the Oireachtas to legislate on the issue? While the assembly overwhelmingly endorsed that, successive opinion polls suggest such a referendum will be defeated. The questions for whoever is in government next spring are even thornier? Do they put forward a referendum based largely on what the assembly has decided, even if their instinct is such a referendum will not be successful? Or do they opt for something they believe will be more acceptable to middle Ireland - for example, a new wording allowing for abortion in certain restricted circumstances? If they opt for the latter, they can expect to incur the wrath of at least 28pc of voters, not to mention an increasingly pro-choice media. Indeed in that scenario, the prospect of some pro-choice voters voting against a referendum, which they deemed did not go far enough, can not be entirely ruled out. That would be a reverse of what happened in the 2002 abortion referendum - when the decision of a minority of pro-life voters to vote 'no', because they deemed the wording did not give sufficient protection to the unborn, ensured its defeat. The potential for things to get really politically messy and massively divisive cannot be overstated. Don't expect a queue of TDs desperate to be part of the special Oireachtas committee which will consider the assembly's findings and issue its own recommendations. For it and for the Government, finding a solution that will keep everyone happy is simply impossible. Finding one that avoids alienating a big majority of voters will be only marginally less tricky. The findings of the Citizens' Assembly couldn't have been clearer. The likely wording of the next referendum and its outcome, however, is impossible to predict. Shane Coleman presents 'Newstalk Breakfast', weekdays from 7am. Irish Independent 
