abortion
{  
    October 22 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/fury-as-lobby-group-links-abortion-to-breast-cancer-26214175.html }
JEROME REILLY THE country's biggest cancer agency has clashed with US anti-abortion campaigners over claims that Ireland has low breast cancer rates only because there is no abortion here. The claims by a powerful US-based anti-abortion group, and published in the Vatican-based Catholic World News, have been angrily rejected by cancer experts here. The American Coalition on Abortion/Breast Cancer promotes medical research which links abortion to higher breast cancer rates. China is the latest country to report a sharp increase in breast cancer cases, and anti-abortion campaigners blame the communist government's "one child" population policy, and high abortion rates. The coalition also claims that a geographical variation in the incidence of breast cancer within Britain and the island of Ireland is attributable to widely available abortion in Britain. "The geographical variation across the British isles shows a higher incidence of breast cancer in the south east [of England]. This is explicable by the higher abortion rate in London and the south east . . . Ireland has the lowest rate of breast cancer in the British Isles: 97 per 100,000 compared to 116 per 100,000 in the south east [of England]. "The lower rate of breast cancer in Ireland is also explicable by the lower abortion rate there," the coalition claims. But the Irish Cancer Society has hit back. It rejects both the claim that Irish women have a lower rate of breast cancer, and that this is linked to the absence of legalised abortion. Jane Curtin of the society said: "The relationship between induced and spontaneous abortion and breast cancer risk has been the subject of extensive research and debate since the late 1950s. "Until the mid-1990s, the evidence was inconsistent. Findings from some studies suggested that there was no increase in risk of breast cancer among women who had an abortion, while findings from other studies suggested there was an increased risk." But she added that since then, better designed studies have been conducted. "These newer studies examined larger numbers of women and collected data from women who had a history of breast cancer. Essentially, when the research was conducted medical history information was gathered from medical records rather than simply from self-reports, thereby generating more reliable and scientific findings. "These newer studies showed no association between induced and spontaneous abortions and breast cancer risk," the Irish Cancer Society said. The society said there are approximately 2,020 new cases of breast cancer in the Republic every year and 700 deaths. Ireland's (north and south) breast cancer incidence rate is more than 10 per cent higher than the EU rate. "Ireland's mortality rate is 15 per cent higher than the EU rate. Why our incidence and mortality rates are higher is unclear. Higher incidence rates are typically associated with intensive screening efforts which can lead to lower mortality rates," the ICS spokeswoman said. Last year almost 800 teenagers from the Republic were recorded as having abortions in Britain. The 798 teenagers included 49 under the age of 16 and 540 in the 18-19 age group. New figures for British abortion clinics showed 6,217 women from the Republic had abortions in Britain in 2004. That was a slight drop over the previous year. 
