abortion
{ John-Paul McCarthy 
    July 21 2013 03:07 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/john-paul-mccarthy-women-showed-poise-and-dignity-in-abortion-debate-29436246.html }
In his famous polemic, The Victory of Sinn Fein, the old Cork city Fenian PS O'Hegarty fretted about the little lady's capacity to negotiate the dialectics of politics. "They took to their hearts," he sighed, "every catch-cry and every narrowness and every bitterness." He would surely have wanted to withdraw this formulation had he heard last week's Seanad debate on the abortion issue. Senators Averil Power and Fidelma Healy Eames stole the show in the upper house with their poise and quiet dignity. Both senators spoke in the spirit of Edmund Burke's admonition that "political reason is a computing principle: adding, subtracting, multiplying and dividing, morally and not metaphysically or mathematically, true moral denominations". And both carried their audiences with them as they enforced their various distinctions. Ms Power wanted a hard rule that was subject to several clear exceptions. She came down somewhere in the vicinity of the settlement reached by the Spanish cortes in May 1985, a settlement that permitted abortion in cases of rape, fatal foetal abnormality and in situations where the mother's life was at risk. She explained her hostility to something like the Casey abortion framework in operation in America today – any "undue burden" on a woman's access to a pre-viability abortion violates the Fourteenth Amendment with reference to her personal life. "If a girl came to me for support who was in similar circumstances to the 14-year-old rape victim who was at the centre of the X Case," Ms Power explained, "I would try to do everything I could to help her. I would bring her for counselling, I would talk it through with her and I would speak to her as an adopted person about the gift of bringing a child into the world and giving it to another family. Equally, I would understand if she could not do that." She was justly furious about the Government's treatment of women like Deirdre Conroy who found their pregnancies ruined by fatal foetal abnormalities. At 17 weeks, Ms Conroy was told that one twin had died in utero and that her second twin had Edward's Syndrome and would almost certainly die shortly after birth. Her doctor told her there was "nothing we can do, nothing in this country". After an abortion in Belfast and a near-fatal brush with sepsis back home, she took the case of D v Ireland to the European courts where the Irish government said that she could have gotten what she needed if she asked the courts at home. Ms Conroy explained that "had I attempted to exhaust my options in the Irish courts as upheld in the State's defence, based on the timing from X's injunction on February 7, 1992, to decision on March 5, 1992, I would have been 23 weeks pregnant by the time I had got a decision, with one dead foetus and one unviable twin". Ms Power effectively amplified these sentiments by concluding: "It is absolutely barbaric and inhumane to inflict that type of torture on people." Ms Healy Eames came to a different synthesis then. She was quite correct to scold the Government for euphemism. She explained that it would have been more honest to call the bill in question the medical abortion law. She rather stumbled, though, in comparison with Ms Power on the fatal foetal abnormality problem by making the strange observation that those women who did not seek an abortion but took their inert pregnancies to term seemed "happier". That missed Ms Conroy's plight by a mile. On the need for an automatic exception to any abortion ban for rape, Ms Healy Eames urged caution. "I am a mother because I have adopted two children." She explained at the end then that her opposition to the bill was based on the problem of intent. Abortion qua unintended medical outcome was acceptable, whereas deliberate, premeditated abortion was not. This was an echo of Mr Justice Brian Walsh's notorious speech in Cork city in 1993 where he said that "there can be no doubt" that the 1983 amendment was understood by the people to "maintain the prohibition on intentionally procured abortions". Leaving aside the more obvious weaknesses of this kind of hectoring advocacy – the amendment said nothing about intent at all – it suffers from a more basic flaw. The intentional-abortion-bad school just ignores the fact that in some cases it is the physical encumbrance of the pregnancy itself that menaces the woman's life and health. And it demeans everyone to make doctors pretend that medically necessary abortions are always indirect by-products of an unrelated procedure. To the extent that the new abortion law will allow doctors to perform abortions if the pregnancy itself is the aggravating factor in the woman's distress, then Ms Healy Eames was quite correct to flag its divergence from the Walsh school. His fixation with something called "foreseeable if indirect" abortions is a thing steeped in the superstitions of a bygone era. Three cheers anyway for both senators for their contributions. Irish Independent 
