abortion
{ Aine O'Connor 
    February 24 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/abortion-the-different-arguments-26239466.html }
Aine  O'Connor outlines the debate and finds that Dana and the  Catholic bishops are on opposite sides of the fence THIS latest abortion referendum is proving even more divisive than its predecessors. But rather than running along the usual pro-choice vs pro-life lines, it's causing rifts in traditionally united fronts. Unlikely groups, especially among the No campaigners, are seeking the same result. Who could have imagined the Mother and Child Campaign (incorporating Youth Defence) and Dana in the same camp as the Irish Family Planning Association and the Church of Ireland? Especially given that those on the other side include, among others, the Catholic bishops. Strange bedfellows indeed, even if they're in the same bed for very different reasons. So far, almost 30 different groups have stated their official position on the amendment. However, only those created specifically for the referendum can claim unanimity of opinion. Other groups, despite their official positions, contain deep internal divisions. Meanwhile, there is considerable confusion amongst the general populace. What is this referendum really about, and what will a vote either way really mean? In 1992, the X Case judgment stated, "if it is established, as a matter of probability, that there is a real and substantial risk to the life, as distinct to the health, of the mother, which can only be avoided by the termination of her pregnancy, such termination is permissible, having regard to the true meaning of Article 40.3.3 of the Constitution [1983 amendment]". In November of 1992, a Fianna Fail/Progressive Democrat coalition drew up an amendment to undo the Supreme Court judgment and permit termination "where there is a real and substantial risk to the life of the mother, not being the risk of self-destruction". The amendment was rejected in a referendum, suggesting the public did believe suicide was grounds for abortion. The failure to legislate meant the X Case provided the legal framework for abortion in Ireland. The practical framework, however, was formed by the Medical Council's guideline that a doctor performing a termination would be struck off. It's thought no abortions have been carried out under the X Case ruling. Terminations have been carried out in rare cases where a pregnancy presented a medical threat to the mother's life (uterine cancer, pre-eclampsia and Eisenmenger's syndrome). Arguments for a Yes vote THOSE in favour of a Yes vote are largely unanimous in their reasons. All agree that the threat of maternal suicide is not grounds for abortion. Psychiatrists Anthony Clare and Patricia Casey issued a joint statement saying psychiatry was being used in the debate but that no psychiatrist could predict suicide with certainty and that there was no absolute evidence that the refusal of abortion led to suicide. They support the amendment as providing support for the mental and physical health of the mother and baby. [In his submission to the All Party Committee in May 2000, Professor Clare said that "as a man" he believed victims of rape or incest should be allowed to get a legal abortion in Ireland; that forcing them to carry such a child was repugnant. His recent statement rejects the use of psychiatry to argue this case.] Others have suggested that far from curing suicidal tendencies, abortion may exacerbate them. The other main argument of the Yes campaign is that failure to pass the amendment would force legislation along the lines of the X Case, therefore opening the way for liberal abortion laws (FF), "social abortion" (Institute of Obstetricians), abortion on demand, or, according to the Pro Life Campaign (PLC), abortion up to birth. They argue that the Constitution is the right place for these changes as this would prevent further controversial interpretations by the Supreme Court. FF and the PDs say that, for the first time, a pregnant woman's right to life would be enshrined in law, and the Institute of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists agrees that it would legalise existing medical practice and ethical principles. The Government parties say the Bill will also guarantee the availability of emergency contraception the morning-after pill and IUD, services the Tanaiste described as a "right". Micheal Martin also said that in circumstances similar to the C Case (where a young girl in care becomes pregnant as a result of rape), the health board looking after her would still be permitted to bring her abroad for an abortion. There is no other discussion of rape or incest in the Yes campaign. Although the Catholic bishops say that the amendment falls short of their belief that life begins at conception, it "does not in itself deny or devalue the worth and dignity of the human embryo prior to implantation" and it is a "significant improvement on the current unsatisfactory situation". Arguments for a No vote THOSE who advocate a No vote do so from two very different positions. The largest group is against the amendment for pro-choice reasons. All of these pro-choice No advocates argue that threat of suicide can be considered grounds for abortion. Consultant psychiatrist Dr Moosajee Bhamjee says that suicide is a risk, especially in the first three months of pregnancy. The Church of Ireland suggests that the proposal denies the Christian belief that physical and mental well-being are interlinked. Groups like Doctors for Choice also dispute the fact that assessing the mental state of pregnant woman is the exclusive role of a psychiatrist: "For the Government to demean every doctor's ability to honestly and accurately judge mental health risks is an insult to the profession as a whole." The medical campaigners and the Alliance for a No Vote (ANV) have also expressed dismay at the proposal that procedures which are life-saving for the mother, but potentially fatal for the foetus, may be carried out only in unspecified "approved places". They say such a situation undermines both maternal health and medical integrity. The failure to include rape and incest as grounds for abortion is unilaterally criticised by the pro-choice No lobby. There is also criticism of the failure to allow termination where a foetus is diagnosed as suffering from a condition such as anencephaly, where life after birth would be impossible. The Adelaide Hospital Society (AHS) and the Women's Health Council say the amendment would force women in such a situation to continue the pregnancy to term. All pro-choice No campaigners dispute Micheal Martin's assertion that a C Case would be treated the same under the new proposals. According to Lawyers Against the Amendment, the High Court permitted C to travel for an abortion because the X Case ruling made suicide legal grounds for abortion, and in theory the operation could have been carried out here. Under the new proposals, where suicide is not grounds for an abortion, the abortion would not be permitted. The groups say that the amendment, rather than clarify the legal position of the morning-after pill or the IUD, leaves such procedures open to challenge. This claim was backed up by the Referendum Commission's booklet which stated that the amendment, whether accepted or rejected, would not change the "legal limbo" status of emergency contraception. Several groups feel that continuing to export abortion is hypocritical (C of I) and refuses to accept reality (Workers' Party). The AHS, ANV and Labour say it discriminates against socially disadvantaged women who cannot afford to travel. And although not campaigning, the Women's Health Council expressed concern that enshrining the "freedom" rather than the "right" to travel may have implications for disadvantaged women or girls in care. The proposal to introduce a 12-year jail term for anyone convicted of facilitating or assisting an abortion (in Ireland) has been widely criticised. The Irish Family Planning Association (IFPA) and the National Women's Council drew a comparison between the 12-year jail sentence proposed for a woman who seeks to abort the progeny of a rape, and the jail sentence imposed on the rapist. Other parties such as the AHS believe criminalising abortion only increases the stigma of women who have abortions. It is a commonly held belief that a referendum is not an appropriate way to regulate abortion, the Constitution being too blunt an instrument for the changing, delicate and precise subject of abortion. The IFPA described the proposed amendment as a "ticking bomb" which would require further votes within five years. Lawyers Against the Amendment claim that the amendment is at odds with Article 15 of the Constitution and as such interferes with the mechanisms of government. They also criticised the proposal to remove the president's power to refer a problematic bill to the Supreme Court and criticised the lack of information about the substantive issues in the proposal. Several groups maintain the definition of "the unborn" is too fuzzy. Tom O'Dowd, Professor of General Practice and Community Health at TCD, said the Protection of Human Life in Pregnancy Bill, 2001, would be a threat to doctor-patient confidentiality. Under the proposed legislation, an unspecified government minister would have the right to check medical records of a woman who has had an abortion. Those who oppose the amendment from a pro-life point of view do so for several reasons. All groups agree that life begins at conception, not implantation, and say that not only does the amendment not recognise this, but it removes the protection afforded to life prior to implantation. They are all against legalising emergency contraception. They are also unanimous in their agreement that if passed it will legalise limited abortion for the first time. The Pro-Life Alliance objects to the "gross hypocrisy" of getting taxpayers to fund abortions abroad, paving the way for "anyone with a medical card" to seek publicly funded abortions abroad. The Alliance for All Life rejects the amendment as confusing and lacking the clarity of intent required by pro-life groups. They do not agree that abortion should be legalised in any circumstance rape, incest or severe foetal malformation although they accept that any measures medically required to save a pregnant woman's life should be allowed. 
