abortion
{ Colum Kenny 
    July 14 2013 03:06 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/colum-kenny-to-listen-advocate-and-guide-what-churchs-new-role-can-be-29418431.html }
The failure of the Irish Catholic hierarchy to prevent the Dail passing abortion legislation is a moment to reassess the role of religion in Irish society. The hierarchy ought to have exercised prudent judgement in politics on this occasion, just as the best bishops have done historically. Pope Francis exercised such judgment by ensuring that the canonisation of Pope John Paul II did not proceed last week without that of "the good pope" John XXIII also taking place. The papacy of John Paul II became both an instrument and a symbol of a particular attitude towards the church that contradicted the universality that is the literal meaning of the word 'catholic'. Irish bishops should also have learned from the bad example of the US hierarchy, who have scandalised people by allowing their church to be aligned with one side in culture wars that divide people ideologically on matters such as abortion and gay marriage but that are ultimately not spiritual. In last year's US elections, some bishops appeared to oppose the re-election of Barack Obama because of his policy on the provision of contraception services. In the end he was elected by the key votes of Catholic Hispanic-Americans who treated their bishops as irrelevant, much as Irish Catholics have ignored bishops here in respect to contraception and abortion. The Vatican's stance on the sacredness of human life allows no exceptions on abortion even when a woman's life is at risk, yet it allows US bishops (for example) not to take the same absolutist approach to Catholics who kill, in war, victims who are not an immediate or any threat to them. Most deputies who voted for the Irish abortion bill describe themselves as Catholics. Most followed their consciences, just as much as Lucinda Creighton did when she opposed it. Some Catholic deputies actually agree that abortion may be the lesser of two evils in certain cases. Others, such as Michelle Mulherin, draw a distinction between their personal views and their role as legislators in a society where other churches and religions allow abortion in limited circumstances. The life experience and discernment of lay Catholics is as legitimate as that of the bishops, and their stance on abortion raises questions about how the Catholic Church decides what it teaches on moral and social issues. Reliable opinion polls suggest that most Irish Catholics support abortion in certain circumstances. But few agree that it is simply "a woman's right to choose". This is a complex issue involving at least two lives, where pregnancy is a special state and the foetus is not simply a child. Most Catholics see that. The Irish Catholic bishops let down their church yet again by striking a pose that seemed as politically hostile as it was inept, and by failing to respect in any obvious way the opinions of those Catholics and others who disagreed with them. They cannot bully people any more, and seem to regret that. In another era, the kind of pressure that they put on Enda Kenny and on Fine Gael backbenchers in particular during the passage of this bill would have seen that party cave in. The Taoiseach was insulted by US cardinals in America, weekly letters were sent out from Maynooth to lay Catholics, speeches were made from the pulpit, and the institutional church climbed into bed with some pressure groups that many citizens regard as eccentric to say the least. By these tactics, the hierarchy continued to show itself unable to grasp the nettle of change. Bishops even hinted at the possible excommunication of Catholic politicians, but realised that such a tactic would not work. The dishonesty and ineptitude of some Catholic authorities in the face of child sexual abuse does not invalidate that church's strong argument against abortion. Bishops are entitled to their opinions. But on this occasion they lost perspective on the purpose and intent of the proposed legislation. It would have been better to have had a multiple-choice referendum allowing voters to say when abortion ought to be allowed. But that option was judged not to be a realistic or desirable political option. As a result, we have an abortion law that still leaves pregnant women exposed to avoidable and serious harm. It does not seem Christian. Abortion is clearly an issue that divides Irish people, including Irish Catholics, among themselves. But more crucially than that, as the Catholic writer Peter Steinfels has pointed out, it deeply divides people within themselves. Steinfels, co-founder of the Fordham Centre on Religion and Culture, explains why there is nothing easy, or black-and-white, about abortion. Bishops on both sides of the Atlantic would do well to study his analysis of where they have gone wrong. The Irish bishops would be wise to learn even at this point that their teaching on issues such as contraception and gay marriage and abortion are being rejected by Catholics not because people are perverse but because that teaching itself is not sufficiently rational and compassionate. The bishops in recent weeks would have done far better by simply pointing out their position on abortion and leaving it at that, especially when they knew that the Government was obliged in law to legislate. Attempts to deny that legal reality were unrealistic. A very different style of bearing witness to the Christian message might actually be of some value to citizens in crisis, hit by a range of social and economic problems. The bishops have bigger problems than this minor abortion law that does not even recognise the needs of Irish women who have crisis pregnancies involving rape or foetal abnormalities. A bigger problem for bishops is the growing number of people who do not regard religion in general or Catholicism in particular as a desirable way of life. According to priests who have recently met members of the hierarchy some bishops blame this on people becoming pagan. One parish priest put it more crudely last week. He told me that many people tell him that they could not be "arsed" to get out of bed on Sundays and go to Mass. His view both sums it up and misses the point. If the bishops and their church were bearing witness in a way that made the Christian message seem like something that sets people free, if they radiated a feeling for the sacred, then people would be more inclined to be "arsed". Irish Independent 
