abortion
{ EILISH O'REGAN 
    September 10 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/large-majority-of-submissions-anti-abortion-26138110.html }
THE vast majority of the 10,000 submissions to the Green Paper expressed a wish for a referendum which would look to outlaw abortion completely. However the working group, chaired by Health Minister Brian Cowen, said the Government, while mindful of the weight of submissions calling for a complete ban, was anxious to discuss the wide range of views and arguments. The group also received petitions with 35,000 signatures, all of whom wanted a total ban on abortion. The submissions underlined the complexity of the abortion debate and showed that many hold firm viewes on the issue. ``It is clear that many Irish people regard abortion with abhorrence, whatever the circumstances,'' the Green Paper stated. People were of this view for a number of reasons believing that abortion is tantamount to murder, that human life is sacred, and that to permit limited abortion would gradually lead to its ready availability. Others however were in favour of abortion in certain circumstances citing the X case where there is a threat of suicide from the mother. Other instances would involve termination where the mother's life or health is at risk or cases where the women was the victim of rape or incests. It should also be permissible where there are certain abnormalities of the foetus. Others argued that each woman has a right to control her body and reproductive system and the State should not limit this right. Grouping the submissions into five broad categories, the Green Paper said two different schools of thought emerge from submissions relating to medical conditions which pose a risk to the life of a pregnant woman. Some argued direct abortion is never necessary to save the mother's life while others make a distinction between direct and indirect abortion - where the foetus dies as a secondary effect of treatment of the woman. It said: ``Submissions, including those from medical practitioners, which are totally opposed to intentional abortion do not regard those procedures currently allowed to treat the mother as abortions.'' Others feared however that an absolute ban on abortion would put these procedures, currently allowed to treat the mother, in jeopardy. Other submissions, including some from individual doctors, indicate that in their view there are medical conditions where termination of a pregnancy may be necessary to save the woman's life - such as where the woman suffers from certain cardiac diseases or severe pre-eclampsia in early pregnancy. Other submissions pointed to low death rates for pregnant women while many others quoted the ethical guidelines of the Medical Council of 1993 stating that ``the necessity for abortion to preserve life remains to be proved.'' Others drew attention to the fear that a pregnancy could put a small number of women at grave risk and state a small number of Irish women may be having abortions in Britain arising out of conditions such as cancer of the breast and female reproductive tract, leukaemia and lymphoma, heart disease, hypertension/pre-eclampsia and Eisenmenger's Complex, (adult congenital heart disease).  Opinions were divided on whether a victim of sexual assault should be obliged to continue with the pregnancy. On the issue of rape the Catholic Church comes out against abortion as an option while the Church of Ireland and Presbyterian Church differ and and say in exceptional cases it may be permitted. 
