abortion
{  
    October 06 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-silent-hurt-our-lawmakers-havent-heeded-26251149.html }
We must end the hypocrisy and realise that we already have abortion on demand, says Colm Toibin THERE is something utterly grotesque about the Government's proposals for legislation and a new referendum on abortion. And there is something equally grotesque about the attempt to suggest that these proposals represent what an Irish Times editorial last Wednesday called "a sane and workable Irish solution" to the problem. There is nothing sane or workable about the Government's "solution". There is, however, something very "Irish" about it. Since the referendum in 1983, close to 100,000 Irish women have had abortions in England. These women represent a great silent, wounded force in Irish life. Many of them sought no advice from those close to them at the time; many of them have never told anyone about their experience; they listen to this debate with a bitter knowledge not in the possession of the Government or most of the Medical Council. These women were not called before the Oireachtas Committee; no one who framed this legislation was forced to sit down and listen to their account of a desperate effort to get the details of the clinic in London and raise the money and make excuses to friends and family and take the journey alone and then come home, smiling and pretending that nothing had happened. The men and women of the Government and the Medical Council who framed these new proposals, and the men and women who seem so happy to welcome them, should put down this paper now and look around their own houses, their own families. It is possible that your daughter, your sister, your aunt, your wife or your mother even, has had an abortion between 1983 and now and has never told you, and is watching you now with a mixture of guilt and rage. It is possible that you will find out some time in the far future, perhaps when your family member has had too much to drink after a wedding and can contain herself no longer. You will find out the truth about the time she went to London to stay with her sister who wasn't well. Being told many years after the event has become one of the things that happen regularly now in contemporary Ireland. Many readers will know exactly what I am talking about. And you will ask them: but why didn't you tell me? And you will be told that you were so interested in the theory of the thing and finely-tuned legislation that you forgot the human factor living with you. She all the time was going through the worst crisis of her life, and you could be no help to her. The fact is that we have had abortion on demand in Ireland for many years, because Ireland has ceased to be an autonomous entity with trade protection and control over its citizens. It is an open economy and an open society. London is 50 minutes away and travelling there has become increasingly cheap. You don't even need a passport. The women who work in English abortion clinics offer special care to Irish women who come to them. They know how difficult the future is going to be. They know that medical complications will be difficult to deal with in Ireland. More than anything else they know how hard the silence and the hypocrisy will be to handle back in Ireland. Irish women who have had abortions represent a palpable neurosis in Irish life. Their pain is hidden and silent. It makes its way stealthily into the body politic through depression and alcoholism. But its consequences are mostly private, felt by the families, or, if the women involved are especially strong, the consequences are felt only by themselves. The feelings involved are complex. Most women who have abortions do so for good reasons and never cease to feel that they had no choice. If we were to see on television, or hear speaking to the Oireachtas Committee, even a fraction of the women who have travelled to England for abortions, if we could listen to their stories in detail, we would be in a better position to frame leglisation and the wording of a referendum. We would also be in a better position to recognise that abortion has become a normal aspect of Irish life. Because that recognition is not there now, women come back from England after the most difficult few days of their lives to be met by hostility and hypocrisy. And they know how to respond: you tell nobody; you say nothing; you live with the consequences of that silence. Watching Liz O'Donnell and Mícheál Martin, both young enough and smart enough to have more sense, being wheeled out to support the new propoals last week must have caused great bitterness and rage in the hearts of many Irish women. The 1983 referendum caused much self-satisfaction among the self-righteous. It also made abortion seem a viable option; it advertised the availability of clinics in London. The numbers of women going to England increase all the time. These proposals will not change that. England is too close. Thus, legislating for what happens in Ireland may make the legislators feel good and holy but it will not make any difference. In the end, the decision to have a new referendum and pass new legislation is political. Liz O'Donnell said last week that she was in favour of the X case decision, and then went on to say that it was not always appropriate to legislate for a general situation "on the hard fact of an individual case". She seems to want it both ways. Either the girl in the X case had the right to have an abortion or not. The only way that right can be given is to legislate for a general situation. It is very sad to watch the Progressive Democrats being led slowly and carefully to their destruction by Fianna Fáil. The debate on abortion is difficult. It's easy to ask simple questions and demand simple answers. The Labour Party is particularly vulnerable now to being asked if it supports abortion on demand, and being asked to answer yes or no. No one who has listened to the stories of those who have been through the experience "supports" abortion. But we have to recognise it is a decision large numbers of women make and do not regret, despite the trauma involved. Trying to come to terms with a fact about which this society has been in denial is not easy in the heat of a TV debate. Trying to make complex arguments while being asked to answer yes or no requires real bravery and skill. Labour leader Ruairi Quinn is a born compromiser. He has never gone out on a limb politically in his entire life. But he must know that what is going on now is hypocritical and wrong. And he must know also that Ireland has changed since 1983 and there is a groundswell of voters who once looked to the Progressive Democrats for conviction and the upholding of principle in politics, and now, on this issue, look to him. It is very important for these new measures to be vehemently opposed not for their detail or their legal complexities, but because they refused to recognise a reality which has been clear for so long: We already have abortion on demand in Ireland. Close to 100,000 Irish women have had abortions. Ireland's hypocrisy in relation to abortion is outrageous. This is the reality we have to recognise. 
