abortion
{ By JOSEPH O'MALLEY 
    November 12 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/pro-life-referendum-looms-as-independent-tds-choose-ban-26257245.html }
Jerome Reilly reveals exclusive details of the All-Party report on abortion, due out on Wednesday IT IS now inevitable that a pro-life referendum on abortion will be held before the Dáil rises for the summer recess next year. It is the option preferred by the Taoiseach, by Fianna Fáil and, perhaps most importantly, by the four independent TDs on whom the Government depends for survival. It is also one of the recommendations contained in the All-Party Report which is due out on Wednesday. The All-Party Oireachtas Committee spent a year considering the options in dealing with perhaps the most divisive issue in Irish life. After nearly 12 months of deliberations, there appears to be little common ground. The only general point of agreement was that something must be done to tackle unwanted pregnancies which result in abortion in Britain. The report also recommends the provision of an additional £50m to finance State-backed alternatives to the traumatic trip across the Irish Sea. The Committee agreed: * To reduce the number of crisis pregnancies by the provision of preventative services. * To reduce the number of women with crisis pregnancies who opt for abortion by offering services which make other options more attractive. * To provide post-abortion services consisting of counselling and medical check-ups. During its deliberations, the Committee was bombarded with submissions which show that the pro-life movement and other groups who want an absolute ban on abortion are stronger, better organised and more politically adept than in 1983 when the people voted to insert the Eighth Amendment to the Constitution. That Amendment became Article 40.3.3. It reads: "The State acknowledges the right to life of the unborn and with due regard to the equal right to life of the mother, guarantees in its laws to respect, and as far as practicable, by its laws to defend and vindicate that right." Nine years after that referendum, the Supreme Court gave judgement in the case of the Attorney General v X and Others (The X Case). While diverging judgements were delivered in the X decision, the judgement of Chief Justice Finlay (which is noted in the All-Party Committee report) sums up the verdict. Mr Justice Finlay said: "If it can be established as a matter of probability that there is a real and substantial risk to the life, as distinct from the health, of the mother, which can only be avoided by the termination of her pregnancy, such termination is permissible." A majority in the Supreme Court ruled that the threat of suicide can amount to a substantial risk to the life of the mother. That left a situation where abortion is unlawful unless it meets the conditions laid down by the Supreme Court in the X Case. Information on abortion services abroad can be provided within the terms of the Regulation of Information (Services outside the State for Termination of Pregnancies) Act 1995. The protection of the unborn referred to in the Constitution cannot be invoked to ban travel abroad by pregnant women and according to the latest available figures, 11 per cent of all pregnancies among Irish women end with abortion, most in the UK. The X Case judgement has had no effect on current medical practice in Irish hospitals and no abortions are being carried out here because of a threat of suicide, the Committee agreed. Yet the dissatisfaction with the current position is clear. The All-Party Committee reports the substantial number of submissions it received during its deliberations. More than 105,000 communications were received by the Committee. Many took the form of a simple request for a referendum but a considerable number were detailed submissions. Some were supported by printed anti-abortion materials and videos. About 92 per cent of the communications were in the form of signatures to petitions 80,000 signatures in one petition alone. The vast majority of these 105,000 communications favour an absolute constitutional ban on abortion. But the three approaches put forward by the All-Party Committee in the seventh chapter of their report fall short of that absolute ban. * Option 1: The first approach which is favoured by Fine Gael is: "Concentrate on the plan to reduce the number of crisis pregnancies and the rate of abortion and to leave the legal position unchanged." This approach is based on the contention that "constitutional and/or legislative measures will have no actual impact on abortions carried out in Ireland because there is none". "Previous experience has shown that campaigns to amend the law on abortion, however well-meaning and reasonable their proponents, have been divisive. ... Even if a suitable wording was drawn up, and then put to the people in a referendum and carried, it would still be open to judicial interpretation, as are all constitutional amendments." * Option 2: The Labour Party preference contained in the second approach is to "support the plan to reduce the number of crisis pregnancies, accompanied by legislation which will protect medical intervention to safeguard the life of the mother within the existing constitutional framework." That sounds more complicated than it actually is. It means that legislation should be introduced to deal in full with the 'X' case ruling in the situation where there is a real and substantive risk to the life of the mother, including the risk of suicide. Again, there is acceptance that another national debate on abortion will divide the nation and would have no practical effect on the current position. "This approach has regard to the reality that many thousands of women choose to avail themselves of the relatively liberal regime in the UK. A further constitutional referendum will have no impact on this reality. Furthermore, there will be a substantial body of opinion opposed to an amendment to remove the existing constitutional right of a suicidal pregnant woman not to be required to continue her pregnancy regardless of the threat to her life. The proponents of a restrictive referendum appear to have taken an absolutist position that the factual assessment made by the courts in the X Case was incorrect and could never, in fact, occur. This conclusion appears to be insensitive to the possibility if not probability of such facts arising in individual cases." * Option 3: Favoured by the Taoiseach, Fianna Fáil and the four independent TDs, Mildred Fox, Thomas Gildea, Harry Blaney and Jackie Healy-Rae, the third approach is to "support the plan to reduce the number of crisis pregnancies, to legislate to protect best medical practice while providing for a prohibition on abortion, and consequently to accommodate such legislation by referendum to amend the Constitution." Under this approach, legislation should be enacted to protect existing medical practice. "The legislation should restate the criminal prohibition on abortion. The legislation should provide that it would be a defence in any prosecution to establish that the actions ... were taken by a doctor who ... had reasonable grounds to believe ... that the actions taken were essential medical treatment to protect the life of the mother. "The territorial scope of this defence could be limited to public hospitals. The defence should require the doctor to defend and vindicate both the life of the mother and the unborn as far as practicable. Defences based on social, psychological or psychiatric grounds (including suicide) would be prohibited." A referendum to establish a proper constitutional framework for this legislation would be necessary because these laws would infringe upon the X Case. "Since the proposal relates to matters of life and death upon which it is clear a substantial number of citizens wish to be consulted, the proposed referendum would provide such an opportunity," the third approach of the report states. What the Government must do is find a wording which will neither divide the nation nor create more problems than it solves. 
