abortion
{ SINEÁD GRENNAN 
    August 21 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/abortion-figures-fuel-the-referendum-row-26260618.html }
A RECORD number of Irish women are having abortions in the UK, according to figures released last week by the Office for National Statistics in the UK. The figures show that 1,520 Irish women had abortions in the first three months of 1999, a rise of 62 on the same period last year. This is likely to fuel the abortion referendum row and several Independent TDs have already threatened to withdraw support from government if there isn't a commitment on a referendum. The Government has also been criticised over the delay in publishing its Green Paper on Abortion. Work on it began in 1995, after the legalisation of abortion information. A Department of Health spokesman said the Green Paper is due out next month. The latest increase in Irish abortions reinforces the consistent upward trend of the past 25 years. In that time, the number of abortions on Irish women has quadrupled, while the total number on UK women is actually falling. While many Irish women gave false UK addresses when going for an abortion in the past, those working in major UK abortion clinics say this has not been the case for some years. And the projected number of abortions to Irish women this year will exceed 6,000, compared to 5,892 last year. Contrary to the popular perception that many of those opting for abortion are teenage schoolgirls, the majority are working women in their 20s. Teenagers have consistently accounted for 14 to 15 per cent of abortions, while women in their twenties accounted for about 60 per cent. In fact, the rate of teenage pregnancies has not risen in the past 30 years. In 1970, 16.7 per cent of every 100 births outside marriage were to teenagers, compared to 16.3 in 1996. However in 1970, just 24 per cent of teenage mothers were unmarried compared to 95 per cent in 1996. Catherine Conlon, sociologist and co-author of Women and Crisis Pregnancy, a report commissioned and published by the Department of Health last year, said the predominance of women in their early 20s who chose abortion reflected the stage they were at in their lives. A variety of factors contributed to their decision, including the demands of work, persisting stigma of single motherhood and the desire for children within marriage. The report found that 72 per cent of those going for abortions were employed or in third-level education; five per cent were school-goers; five per cent were unemployed and 3.5 per cent were working in the home.  ``The current social policy in Ireland is not child- or mother-friendly,'' said Ms Conlon. ``Very few colleges and workplaces have creches. These women felt the demands of motherhood were incompatible with their work or study. Their predictions were borne out by those who went ahead with the pregnancy and found they had to revise their aspirations downwards.'' 
