abortion
{ Thomas Finegan 
    May 20 2018 08:27 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/abortion-becomes-weapon-of-discrimination-against-disabled-36926418.html }
Today we recognise this, but less than 100 years ago the most advanced and liberal societies in the world denied it. In England, Scandinavia, and the United States the eugenics movement considered that people with disabilities stood in the way of progress and social evolution. Their solution? Coerced sterilisation, segregation, and even termination.    We recoil in horror at these ideas now and yet the disabled are once again under threat. Those campaigning for abortion are anxious to distance the referendum from disability, and conceal the reality that babies with disabilities will be aborted in overwhelmingly disproportionate numbers if the Government's proposals are passed. The sad reality of highly permissive abortion laws of the kind the Government is proposing is that, in practice, abortion becomes a weapon of discrimination against the disabled. Permissive abortion laws aren't neutral as regards disabled lives. They equip societal prejudice with a lawful means to cleanse disabled voices, faces and personalities from everyday life; 90pc of children diagnosed with Down syndrome in the womb in Britain are aborted. The figure in Denmark is 98pc. In Iceland it's virtually 100pc.  Our Government's proposed repeal legislation permits totally unrestricted abortion throughout the entire first 12 weeks of pregnancy. Because it is so unrestricted, and extends so far beyond what is commonly understood as hard cases, it obviously includes abortion of the disabled.   Tests for Down syndrome at 10 weeks in pregnancy are available and are already 99pc accurate, as Dr Rhona Mahony of Together for Yes confirmed last week. Diagnostic certainty isn't currently possible at this stage of pregnancy, but the science is improving every day and, anyway, 99pc accuracy will sway many decisions to abort. Easy and free access to abortion also increases demand for disability diagnostics.  The Government's repeal legislation goes much further in exposing disabled pre-borns to abortion, however. It permits abortions of children with disabilities up until viability (roughly 24 weeks, or six months). Its plain wording explains how.  From 12 to 24 weeks, abortion will be available on the grounds of "risk" of "serious harm to the health" of the woman. This might sound somewhat restrictive but, because "health" here includes mental health, in reality it isn't.  Mental health is ascertained largely by self-reporting. As a legal ground it is vague and subjective, and the repeal legislation doesn't even attempt to define it.  In England and Wales, the "mental health" ground accounts for 97pc of the almost 185,000 abortions per year (and 99.8pc of all abortions for health reasons). In practice the mental health ground is unrestricted. It is responsible for almost all abortions in a society where there is one abortion for every four live births. There is no known case in England of a failure to obtain an abortion on mental health grounds.  This has enormous implications for disability in the context of our referendum. Repeal legislation will provide for largely unrestricted abortion up to 24 weeks, not just 12. Full diagnoses of foetal disability are perfectly possible before 24 weeks.  Germany offers a telling, though troubling, comparison. In Germany, abortion is legal after 12 weeks on mental health grounds, almost identical to the mental health grounds contained in the repeal proposals. In Germany, 90pc of children diagnosed with Down syndrome are aborted, and on these very grounds.  So it is both irrelevant and misleading for Health Minister Simon Harris to argue that there is no specific "disability ground" included under the repeal proposals. When abortion law is as unrestricted and wide-ranging as his own proposals, there doesn't need to be a specific disability ground in order for the vast majority of children with disabilities to be aborted.  This is a problem all of the Government's own making. It didn't have to offer a referendum that completely eliminates from the Constitution all children's rights before birth. And it didn't have to offer repeal legislation that leaves babies with disabilities so radically exposed to abortion.  The proposals are even more troubling still. Draft section five legalises abortions up to birth when a single medical practitioner believes that an abortion is immediately necessary to avert the immediate "risk" of "serious harm" to the mother's mental health. Diagnoses of disability tend to occur later on in pregnancy. And when the prospect of having a child with a disability is believed to pose the relevant risk, a late-term abortion will be sanctioned by the repeal legislation.   Minister Harris has attempted to downplay this aspect of his proposals by claiming that a "termination" conducted between viability and birth would take the form of an early delivery. If only.  Had Harris consulted his own repeal legislation, he would find no mention of "early delivery" and would see "termination" defined as "a medical procedure which is intended to end the life of the foetus".  Children with disabilities are particularly vulnerable to being aborted late on in pregnancy, when the most common method used is a lethal injection into the baby's heart ("feticide"). Harris either doesn't understand the implications his repeal legislation has for disabled (and other) children or else isn't bothered by them.  We know what a Yes vote will expose disabled lives to: unrestricted abortion up to 12 weeks, and after 12 weeks abortion on vague mental health grounds. The Government could have put more restrictive proposals before us that didn't implicate disability so severely and leave disabled pre-borns so utterly exposed. But they didn't.  On Friday we vote on the proposal before us in full knowledge of what the Government intends by it. We cannot claim to recognise the dignity of disabled people's lives and at the same time vote to effectively take away their right to exist at all.  Dr Thomas Finegan who holds an Phd in Law, lectures in Theology in the Department of Theology and Religious Studies at Mary Immaculate College, Limerick Sunday Independent 
