abortion
{ MARTHA KEARNS 
    December 01 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/pro-life-call-for-clear-yes-or-no-to-total-abortion-ban-26127819.html }
THE Pro-Life Campaign has called for a clearly-worded abortion referendum with only one question on the ballot paper - yes or no to a total ban. And it has rejected six of the seven legal options outlined in the Green Paper on Abortion in its submission to the All-Party Committee on the Constitution. It only supports the first option in the paper which is a complete constitutional ban on induced abortion because it ``is the just and workable solution''. ``We are asking the Government to review its commitment to hold a referendum on abortion within six months from the Green Paper's publication. We want a very clear referendum in the sense that the people voting can see that they are either voting yes or no to a total ban on abortion. At the end of the day, what we don't want is a re-run of the '92 referendum,'' said the Campaign's medical adviser, Dr Berry Keily, at the launch of its submission paper yesterday. Yesterday was the last day for submissions to the committee which is charged with reviewing the Green Paper. The Pro-Life Campaign also called on the Government to provide supports for women in crisis pregnancies to advise them of positive alternatives to abortion. Extra funding should also be made available for agencies which advise pregnant women on these alternatives. Dr Keily added that the number of women travelling to England for abortions could be reduced if professional, practical and personal supports were in place for them. ``Women have been very badly served by a lot of pro-abortion lobbyists by making abortion look like a way out. They airbrush out of existence the amount of trauma caused. The trauma caused by travelling to England is minimal compared with the trauma caused by the actual abortion,'' she said. Adequate support and counselling for women who have had an abortion should also be made a priority, the submission stated. It also said there were no grounds to support an argument of medical need for induced abortion to save the life of the mother. ``There is no situation in which the life of the mother can only be saved by having an abortion. In fact, women who have abortions have a seven times higher rate of suicide and there is a higher incidence of depression during their next pregnancy,'' Dr Keily said. The Campaign also called on the Government to tackle ``in a creative and sensitive manner'' the growing number of crisis pregnancies in Ireland. And added that the failure of successive governments to provide adequate respite care for families with multiple special needs was inexcusable and demanded to be addressed as a matter of priority. It also criticised aspects of the Green Paper as ``inadequate'' and the language used as ``unnecessarily confusing and inaccurate''. It rejected the use of certain terms such as ``termination of pregnancy'' and called for the use of the more accurate terms of ``induced'' or ``procured'' abortion. And it stated that the section dealing with the divergence between medical ethics and Supreme Court judgment in the X case was ``striking in its failure'' to mention that the court reached its conclusion without expert obstetric and psychiatric evidence.  An overall weakness of the Green Paper, according to the submission, was its failure to address aspects of the international conventions and other human rights agreements which have a significant impact on the issue of the protection of life. 
