abortion
{  
    November 21 1999 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/girls-appalled-at-school-abortion-video-26261809.html }
Liz Allen, Crime Correspondent, went undercover to find that Life has easy access to schools with its gruesome videosA Sunday Independent inquiry into pro-life organisations and the manner in which they put their message across was instigated almost two months ago after a distraught young woman said she had contacted a pregnancy crisis centre to seek advice on the options it purported to offer women with crisis pregnancies. The woman said that she was ``completely sickened and traumatised'' by the experience of just one visit to the centre, during which she was told that she would ``carry the scars of abortion for the rest of [her] life'' and was ``cajoled'' into watching a video detailing other women's experiences of crisis pregnancies, at the end of which was a scene depicting an abortion. Three days after her visit to the centre (which I discovered independently was run by Life), she rang again, to say: ``I was horrified. It was worse than learning that I'm pregnant. I stupidly thought that I was going to get objective advice, but all I received was total propaganda. It was the most disgusting and horrifying experience of my life. I wanted advice on post-abortion counselling facilities available to me. I decided, with my boyfriend, that I wanted an abortion. I was not pressurised into wanting an abortion. It's not the right time in my life to have a child. But nobody told me that I was going to be shown a video of what would happen if I chose to have an abortion. I am an educated person and I knew what was involved in an abortion if I chose to go that route. I didn't expect to have to experience it graphically at such a traumatic time for me. I want you to know that I feel this is a total abuse''. Two weeks after I began making inquiries, and without disclosing that I was a journalist, I was offered a counselling-type position with Life, one of the largest pro-life groups in the country, with seven offices nationwide, and surprising access to children in schools throughout the country. This came about after I had telephoned the 1850-281-281 number advertised in the telephone directory for ``Life Pregnancy Helpline''. I inquired how I might become involved in a pro-life group and added that I had a lot of free time on my hands. The woman who answered the phone said: ``We are very much looking for the sort of person you sound like. It's a pity you didn't call a few weeks ago. You could have joined the counsellor's training course. You sound like an ideal candidate.'' This woman was Colette Hayes, who, with her husband, Michael, founded Life in Ireland in 1981. Mrs Hayes invited me to her home just over a week later. When I arrived at the house in Dublin 4, the front room was set up for a mass for Mrs Hayes's brother-in-law, a missionary, who was returning home that evening for a family celebration. One hour and 10 minutes after my first meeting with Mrs Hayes, she offered me a post which would see me going to schools with her to give ``talks to children''. I left her house armed with a video which the group uses as a demonstration to pregnant women and schoolchildren. Later that same evening I watched the video. The first section consisted of the women's stories and how their ultimate decisions had affected their lives. The second part of the video consisted of a talk by a doctor who went on to talk the viewer through the graphic depiction on camera of two abortion operations filmed at an abortion clinic. The first showed a woman, her legs suspended in grips, as a doctor suctioned the foetus from her womb. The doctor describes the work of the suction tube as the viewer watches the operation: ``It first sucks the fluid from around the baby. The powerful suction then breaks the baby into smaller pieces which pass down the tubing into the disposal jar.'' The second operation he talks the viewer through is of an abortion conducted after 16 weeks. Beginning by explaining how the mother is sent into labour by the insertion of drugs into the vagina to ripen the cervix, he goes on to describe how this allows the neck of the womb to open and the ``baby'' to be ``expelled''. A picture of an aborted foetus, its thumb in its mouth, is then shown, as the doctor explains to the viewer that this procedure can take ``a distressingly long time 24 hours being not uncommon''. This section of the video also described, through the use of models, how an early abortion is performed. Describing how a woman is ``stretched open'' using a series of dilators, the doctor demonstrates this with the use of a dilator which appears to be at least three times the size of the head on the model baby used for the demonstration. Further describing how the baby is sucked out using an instrument like a curette, ``a type of sharp spoon'', the doctor runs the instrument across the face of the dummy as he describes the procedure. In the most graphic of these scenes, he describes how the head is sometimes too large and firm to be scraped out, so it is then removed separately. In order to demonstrate this, the doctor shows a pliers-type instrument taking a grip of the head to snap it off. The following morning, I telephoned Colette Hayes and told her that my only reservation was that I might be responsible for upsetting the schoolchildren if I participated in the screening of the second part of the video. She replied: ``It's done quite matter-of-factly. It's done quite carefully, so they don't have to watch it if they don't want to. But yes, most of them are appalled.'' LAST Wednesday morning, Colette Hayes and I travelled to Margaret Aylward's Community College, a VEC school in Whitehall, Dublin, for a talk to some transition-year schoolgirls. An hour and 20 minutes after our talk began, I left the school. I had participated in an exercise during which the young girls were strongly advised not to use condoms or the pill and during which they were subjected to the gruesome video. They were informed that they could leave the classroom if they chose, but at no stage was their teacher present to supervise the showing of the video, and the students later informed me that they had not been required to ask their parents' permission to watch the video. Prior to our entering the school, Colette Hayes sat into my car in the car park and said that unfortunately, this was ``not the ideal type of school to be be coming to because, you know, this is a working-class type of area and the children here know that it is more or less accepted by their families that if they become pregnant, the child will be welcomed in as part of the family. It's not such a shameful thing in an area like this.'' Whereas, she pointed out, ``if we were in an area like Killiney, or Loreto in Bray, for instance, the children would be much more susceptible to the influence of their parents. In a lot of more middle-class places, it is expected by the parents that the girls should go for abortion. They are really the ideal type of area we should be getting to.'' Colette began her talk by telling the 20 girls that we were going to do a few exercises to attempt to find out how unexpected pregnancy affects young girls and their families. She distributed worksheets with five different scenarios of pregnant girls to the students, who were divided into groups of five. The words they used to describe how they and their boyfriends and families might feel ranged from angry, frustrated and lonely to afraid, ashamed and sad. I was given the duty of writing the words on the blackboard to demonstrate the negative aspects of teenage pregnancy. The girls were then shown a video of a Northern Ireland teenager who became pregnant with twins at the age of 15. Following this video, in which the girl showed that she had coped admirably with her unexpected pregnancy, Colette initiated a discussion about birth control. She told how ``condoms really are not reliable at all'' and said that the pill was ``a terribly complex thing which is not that reliable either because it really needs to be taken with complete precision every day''. The message seemed to be: no sex before marriage, but if you must, don't use artificial birth control methods. Before moving to the highly graphic video, the girls were shown a number of dummy foetuses, used in medical schools for demonstrating the development stages of a foetus or, as Colette said, ``a baby''. They were also shown a photograph taken on November 12 last at the National Maternity Hospital. The Polaroid photograph was, in fact, a scan taken from Colette's daughter, who is pregnant. Having shown the girls the dummy foetuses, Colette then asked if anybody would like to leave the class for the video depicting the abortion procedures. One of the girls chose to leave immediately and three others left as the doctor explained how a pliers-type instrument is used to snap off the foetus's head during a late abortion. Then Colette announced that she was selling gold brooches of babies' feet (the symbol of the pro-life movement), for 50 pence (seven of the 20 girls bought one). I asked them if they were upset by the video. The overriding response was that, having watched the video, they thought abortion was a disgusting procedure and none of them could go through with it.  As we were leaving, the teacher invited Life back after Christmas to give another talk to pupils in sixth year a class which actually has one pregnant teenager in it. 
