abortion
{  
    June 23 2013 03:07 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/john-waters-we-have-been-conditioned-to-think-of-pregnancy-as-an-imposition-on-a-woman-29365730.html }
'WHAT is the difference, in human rights terms, between a situation in which a distraught male goes in to his doctor and says that his partner is making him suicidal and that he fears that unless he/she (the doctor) arranges to have the partner killed he will kill himself, and a situation in which a distraught female goes to her doctor and says that her unborn child is making her suicidal and that she fears that unless he/she (the doctor) arranges to have the child killed she will kill herself?" I received this single-sentence letter from a reader, who had sent it out to several newspapers in the previous week, in a fruitless bid to have it published. The letter is interesting, and the refusal to publish it equally so. But even more interesting is the emotions I intuit it to generate in the average reader, who, if he or she is anything like me, will instantly comprehend why it was not published, and may even be inclined to feel that the intuited reasons for its non-publication are, at the very least, not entirely outrageous. In other words, something about the proposition contained in that sentence seems unreasonable, and this sense of its unreasonableness is probably very widely shared, if not universally held. Even people who consider themselves 'pro-life' will stop somewhat short of endorsing the comparison made in the letter, perhaps feeling it to withhold sympathy from the 'distraught female' referred to. And yet, if you think that an unborn child is a full human being from the moment of conception, there is no wiggle-room, and no absurdity in the question above, because there can be no moral distinction between the idea of killing an adult woman and killing an unborn child. Considered objectively, then, the question in the letter is a very good one, and its implications entirely reasonable. Certainly, the comparison it proposes should seem reasonable when seen from the pro-life perspective. (On the other side of the argument, we already know that there is little consideration of the feelings of men, and – despite elaborate protestations of an ideological nature – almost as little for the rights of children.) It is not surprising that the letter – as we may well guess – was greeted with snorts of derision in the editorial offices of certain 'liberal' newspapers before being consigned to the Trash folder. At a superficial level, the refusal to publish the letter might be deemed 'sexist', but this would amount to a naive understanding of things, since it has long been obvious that 'sexism' is a concept available only for the protection of females, and usually autonomous females at that. The idea of a man relying upon an allegation of sexism to have restored to him some benefit being denied by society or any of its members would read in most contexts as either vexatious or absurd. But let us consider some facts. In the eight months since the death of Savita Halappanavar in Galway, we have been subjected to a virtually continuous debate about the ramifications of this calamity for our laws against abortion. In truth, there were no implications in this regard, but nevertheless, since the debate was being hosted by interests that support the liberalisation of Irish abortion laws, this opportunism was perhaps inevitable. Very soon, too, the debate extended into the area of suicidal ideation as a pretext for legal abortion, even though this was not in the least a factor in the Halappanavar case – and indeed is a merely theoretical factor in the general context, arising in perhaps one in a million pregnancies. During that period – from October 2012 to the present – approximately 300 Irish men have ended their own lives, roughly one for every day of this debate. And yet, discussion about male suicide – as a discrete phenomenon, which it is – has been accorded the tiniest fraction of the energy given to the theoretical idea of a pregnant woman wishing to kill herself because she is pregnant. The letter, and our reactions to it, should at least alert us to the possibility that most of us, including those who call themselves pro-life, are easy prey in the hands of those seeking to manipulate public emotion in relation to abortion, because we have been conditioned to think about the idea of pregnancy as some kind of imposition on a woman and her life. This idea actually runs back through Irish culture, predating even the earliest clamouring for abortion rights. It is related to the victim-status claimed by and ceded to women in Irish culture, which has long disguised the true nature of power structures in the domestic realm of Irish life. Because women are prone to more extravagant shows of emotion than men, our society is far more willing to concede their demands than it is those of males. Not only that, but almost regardless of how much we claim to repudiate abortion, we refuse to criticise or question the women who seek this remedy for themselves. We will condemn the abortionist who wields the knife, the politician who implements the abortion-facilitating law, the campaigner who demands the change, and so forth. But the person who obtains the ultimate 'benefit' from all this activity is regarded as some kind of enfeebled innocent, upon whom the 'necessity' for an abortion is always thrust by unfortunate circumstances, for which the woman has no responsibility herself. Even the priests and bishops who lead the moral crusade against abortion will never speak a word against those on whose behalf abortion is being sought. Listening to them, one would get the impression that the thousands of Irish women who go to England every year for abortions are the sorry victims of other people's sins. Interestingly, this odd syndrome is more likely to characterise male responses than female ones. Women, as a general principle, are more willing to criticise other women, having more objective insight into the female condition and also the cover of their womanhood to protect them from the moral outrage that almost invariably follows serious attempts at truth-telling. Men are essentially afraid of female emotion, and will do anything to appease a 'distraught female'. A 'distraught male', on the other hand, is the subject of derision and contempt – from both sexes. This, essentially, is why men are actually more likely to support abortion than women, many ludicrously declaring that they don't even have an entitlement to an opinion on the subject. There is no reason to assume that a pregnancy ought to be anything other than a source of joy to the woman involved. In the vast majority of the very limited number of cases in which this is not so, the factors underlying the difficulty usually relate not to objective circumstances but to either intuited societal disapproval or selfishness on the part of the woman involved. Neither context should form any basis or justification for something as drastic and unthinkable as abortion – if we truly think of abortion as unthinkable. Both sets of circumstances can be addressed – the societal problem by changing the mindset of our culture, and the selfishness by redirecting societal disapproval in that direction. The reason these seem like hard statements is not itself an objective circumstance, but the outcome of a culture constructed in a particular – twisted – way. Pro-life people may baulk at this analysis, while still insisting that they are opposed to abortion. But abortion is either wrong or not wrong. If it is wrong, it is just about the wrongest thing there is. If it is less than wrong – which is to say not wrong – then why not accept the ultimate logic of that position, which leads us to acceptance and legalisation of the killing of unborn children? We cannot have it both ways. This article first appeared in 'The Irish Catholic'; www.irishcatholic.ie Irish Independent 
