abortion
{  
    November 17 1997 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/court-to-rule-on-abortion-for-girl-13-26202258.html }
THE Eastern Health Board may go to the High Court this week to clarify whether a pregnant girl in its care, who claims she was raped, should be allowed to have an abortion. The 13-year-old traveller, who is 12 weeks pregnant, has been in the temporary care of the health board since shortly after the alleged rape took place in Dublin on August 27. The girl's parents are pressing for her to have an abortion but time is now running out, making a decision on the matter urgent. The teenager is to see a psychiatrist and be given counselling amid hopes that the demand for an abortion will be dropped and the possible traumatic legal wrangle be defused. The law has changed radically since the 1992 X Case when a High Court injunction was initially granted to stop another 14-year-old rape victim having an abortion. The right to travel abroad for an abortion and the right to names and addresses of information clinics are now enshrined in law but the role of a State agency which has care of a pregnant girl who wants an abortion has never been tested. The fact that she is in the care of the board takes the responsibility for the procurement and payment of the abortion from her parents and places it in the hands of the State agency. Pro-life groups were last night closely watching the progress of the case and SPUC appealed to the public to come forward with offers of assistance to help her keep the baby. A spokesperson for the health board refused to comment on the case and said any matters relating to a child in their care, or with whom they have an involvement, are confidential. SEPARATE REPRESENTATION Both the girl and her family now have separate legal representation and her parents have made their requests for an abortion known at two court hearings relating to the care proceedings. The child was removed from the family after the health board was granted an Emergency Care Order by the courts in early September, a week after she was raped on August 27. It is unclear if her parents will be given custody of the child when the case comes before the courts again. Legal advice to the health board is believed to indicate that, in deciding on the abortion issue, it would be bound by Article 40.3.3. of the Constitution which protects the life of the unborn. However, legal sources last night insisted the board should maintain a neutral position on the matter. The girl is likely to be assessed by a psychiatrist this week on whether her life will be in danger if she does not have an abortion. In the X case, the 14-year-old girl was prevented from going abroad for an abortion before a successful appeal to the Supreme Court gave her the green light after a ruling that abortion is legal here where there is a real and substantial risk to the life, as distinct from the health, of the mother. In the latest incident, the 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped on August 27 by a 24-year-old man while she was babysitting in the north Dublin area, according to her parents. Her parents said the rape was a terrifying ordeal and she was also badly beaten. Finger marks were found on her neck, as if her assailant has ``tried to strangle her'', they said. Although the girl was given the morning after pill, it was discovered five weeks ago that she was pregnant. Her parents now believe she should have an abortion. She was taken into temporary care by the Eastern Health Board after the family was threatened as a result of reporting the rape, according to a newspaper interview. ``We pray that God will forgive us for wanting an abortion but we feel that our daughter will be tortured for the rest of her life if she has a rape baby. She would not have a life.'' 
