abortion
{ EILISH O'REGAN and CHRIS GLENNON 
    September 10 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/spelling-out-the-options-26138104.html }
A HIGH-POWERED Government committee says the difficulties of agreeing an acceptable wording for a new abortion referendum should ``not be underestimated''. The 1983 equal-right-to-life addition to the Constitution did not give the intended protection to the `unborn', it said. The 1992 formula in the aftermath of the X Case - judged the best possible in the circumstances was rejected in a referendum. After more than a year's study and much re-drafting, the committee has produced a Green Paper designed to set out all the constitutional and legal options. Their 172-page document lists a range of difficulties. On the theme of `Possible Constitutional and Legislative Approaches', it sets out one immediate problem. The document declares: ``The issue of whether the term `unborn' should be, or can be, defined may again arise'' if the equal-right-to-life article is to stay in the Constitution. The Green Paper questions whether the absolute ban on abortion sought by some groups could be sustained under Ireland's obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights. Case law in Europe suggests, it says, that an absolute ban would not be compatible with human rights rules. The Green Paper also argues that an absolute ban on abortion might have the effect of compromising current procedures accepted under ethical medical guidelines. There would, the paper says, be implications for cases where any doctor considered that treatment ``involving the removal of the foetus'' was necessary to save a woman's life. The paper says: ``It is difficult to see how the destruction of the embryo can be described as an unintended side-effect'' of the treatment. Submissions to the Cabinet sub-committee put forward a huge range of options from the availability of abortion with few restrictions to a total ban written into the Constitution. An absolute constitutional ban on abortion This would aim to allow existing medical practice to continue - where the foetus is lost as an indirect consequence of the mother's treatment. Its supporters argue direct abortion is never needed to save the mother's life. In its discussion on this issue, the Green Paper says the ban may have the effect of compromising current acceptable medical procedures. It would be necessary to incorporate appropriate definitions of these into the Constitution and it remains to be seen how the distinction can be made between direct and indirect abortion. ``An absolute ban would also seem to accept the contention that `direct' abortion is never necessary to save the life of a mother, although the evidence on this point is not conclusive and that contention remains controversial,'' it says. It notes: ``The difficulty of arriving at an acceptable working to provide for a constitutional prohibition on abortion should not be underestimated.'' It would also have to be considered whether this option would be compatible with the State's obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights. It also adds, however, that individual States have discretion in the area of regulating abortion. An amendment of the Constitution to restrict the application of the X Case This would seek to row back the decision of the Supreme Court which allowed abortion in the X Case citing risk of suicide as a ground for establishing a real and substantial risk to the life of the mother. The Green Paper points out that this was also at issue in the 1992 referendum when the electorate voted not to exclude suicide as a ground for abortion. It highlights the difficulty in finding a wording and notes that since 1992 the need to define `unborn' has come to light. The possibility of accompanying legislation would have to be considered and this could be published in draft form. If the electorate voted to remove `suicide risk' the bill would be enacted without this but if they voted to retain it the legislation would be enacted with relevant provisions. Retention of the status quo This would mean that further cases would be decided on an individual basis by the courts. It says, however, that retention of the status quo, without legislation, has the disadvantage that the courts would become the ordinary forum for resolving issues in relation to medical treatment and abortion. The outcome of such cases could not be predicted and the judgments in the X Case offered no direct guidance on the liability of doctors who might consider an abortion necessary in cases where it is not absolutely clear the mother's life is at risk or alternatively, if a decision not to perform an abortion resulted in her death. There are also a number of issues unaddressed such as the time limit on such an abortion and the guidance necessary as to the evidence needed to justify an abortion. Retention of the Constitutional status quo with legislative restatement of the prohibition on abortion This would mean leaving the Constitution in its present form and re-enacting a criminal law prohibiting abortion in the form of a new act to replace the relevant provisions of the Offences Against the Person Act, 1861. Legislation to regulate abortion in circumstances defined in the X Case This would allow threat of suicide as a ground for abortion. But the problem of definition in the text of Article 40.3.3 would remain. The current medical ethical guidelines would also be inconsistent with such legislation. Reversion to the pre-1983 position This would mean deleting Article 40.3.3 voted for in 1983. It was aimed at outlawing abortion entirely but was later interpreted by the courts as allowing abortion where there is a real and substantial risk to the life of the mother. However, this could be problematic and may need added legislative protection for appropriate medical intervention by doctors. At the very least the travel and abortion information freedoms could not be maintained in their present form. Permitting abortion on grounds beyond those set out in the X Case This would entail allowing abortion on new grounds, either individually, or in combination of some or all. These would entail instances of risk to the physical/mental health of the mother, abortion for women pregnant as a result of sexual assault and permitting abortion where there is a congenital malformation of the foetus. Other grounds could include abortion for economic or social reasons or ultimately abortion on request.  The Green Paper points to a number of difficulties in these courses. For instance it may not be possible to confine abortion to genuine cases of sexual assault. In the area of congenital malformation of the foetus, it would not be practical to include a detailed specification in the Constitution of conditions regarded as permissible. 
