abortion
{ PATRICIA CASEY 
    September 10 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/democratic-wish-of-the-people-cannot-be-ignored-26138065.html }
THE Green Paper on abortion published yesterday acknowledges that over 10,000 submissions were received from the public and from interested organisations, including one petition signed by 36,000 people. The authors state that the ``vast majority'' of these submissions were from those who not only wanted a referendum, but specifically one which allowed for the insertion of a total abortion ban into the Constitution. This may shock those who are unfamiliar with the thinking of the ``plain'' people of Ireland but comes as no surprise to those who are poll-watchers. With the exception of one opinion poll in the heat of the X case debate, all subsequent surveys, conducted by independent and reputable agencies, have been consistent in finding that over 70pc of those polled, excluding dont-knows, want a clear and precisely-worded referendum to allow for a total ban on abortion. Indeed, far from the nation being divided on this remarkably emotive issue, there is a striking consistency finding little or no change over the past 20 years. Even acknowledging that this may not mirror how the electorate will eventually vote, it is noticeable that those who are resisting a poll belong to the so-called pro-choice movement, whilst those who want a referendum are committed to the pro-life position. A total ban on abortion in this jurisdiction would lead to a reduction in the supply side of the equation, but would not necessarily lead to a reduction in the demand. Regrettably, it is that demand that takes almost 6,000 women to Britain every year and so without a two-pronged approach aimed at both supply and demand, the abortion trail will continue. The Green Paper acknowledges the necessity for this approach by the provision of alternatives. This would require government assistance at providing other responses to a crisis pregnancy, including a campaign to promote positive images of motherhood, regulation of pregnancy counselling agencies to ensure that abortion is not subtly encouraged and that all factual information relating to the adverse effects of abortion is made available without vitriol. Also, efforts to overcome the institutional hostility to adoption, recently highlighted, should continue and the childcare issue should be addressed. The alternative to a referendum is to allow for abortion in some or all circumstances. This might range from specific situations such as that invoked in the X case judgment or more liberally whenever a woman requests one. The hard case scenario is cited by those who purport to care about women with undesired pregnancies as a justification for treading the legislative route, although the solution they try to sell, i.e. limited abortion, would not provide the extent of abortion required. It would short-change these women if operated within the legal parameters laid down. The request for limited abortion is a ruse to wedge open a door which would eventually be broken down. So has the pattern been throughout Europe and America, that the number of abortions being performed in Britain is now reaching 180,000 per year. This liberalisation has become so extensive that 30pc of newly qualified doctors refuse to perform abortions there. In the United States, one million abortions occur each year. The lie of limited abortion is obvious to all but the naive or the deliberately evasive. The government has long-fingered the abortion question and ignored the current lacuna for seven years. It has now slipped off the end of that very long finger and should be dealt with in accordance with the democratic wishes of the people in a comprehensive and inclusive manner. Those who are pro-choice have nothing to fear from democracy except democracy itself.  * Professor Patricia Casey is Professor of Psychiatry at the Mater Hospital/UCD. 
