abortion
{ CHRIS GLENNON 
    November 16 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/differences-remain-but-there-are-more-of-them-26104405.html }
THE MORE things change the more they seem the same.  Eighteen years after the first hugely divisive debate on  abortion, eight years after the human tragedy of the X Case,  political, medical and other opinion is as polarised as ever it was. Thus, an Oireachtas Committee designed to find a solution to a problem has, in effect, landed a political hand-grenade under the desk of Taoiseach Bertie Ahern. And, if the four Independents supporting the Government in the Dail decide the pull the pin on an issue to which they are committed, it is even possible that the FF-PD alliance could fall. Ireland is an immensely different country certainly much more prosperous than the one in which abortion unexpectedly became an intense political issue in the early 1980s as the pro-life campaign pressured Charles Haughey and Garret FitzGerald into agreeing to put in the constitution a ban on abortion. Yet, opinions are at least as diverse and it is difficult to envisage anything like the all-party agreement that would be needed for a referendum to be carried out in a calm atmosphere. Apart from broad agreement on a £50m 10-year plan to try to turn down the graph of abortions to Irish women and to educate young people on the danger and difficulty of crisis pregnancy, there is no real common ground between the main parties. That is clear in the massive report of the Oireachtas Committee on the Constitution, which sets out three distinct and separate approaches. Fianna Fail favours a third referendum. In it, the State's 2.7m voters would be asked to give constitutional backing to strict medical guidelines on when a pregnancy could be ended in an Irish hospital. In short, a doctor could end a pregnancy only if that was a side effect of medical treatment to save the mother. A doctor would be prevented from carrying out an abortion where the mother-to-be was suicidal. The FF approach would, therefore, reverse one element of the Supreme Court judgment in the X Case that an abortion was legal in the event of a "real and substantial" risk to the life of the mother. That risk included threat of suicide. Labour members of the Oireachtas Committee seem to be saying one thing that is fundamentally accurate and true. They argue that there is little sense in embarking on a further constitutional referendum which would have "no impact whatsoever" on the reality that thousands of Irish women can easily travel to the UK to abort pregnancies. Accepting that the £50m plan could help reduce the number actually seeking abortion, the Labour committee members favour a legal rather than a constitutional response. Unlike Fianna Fail, Labour want any new law to embrace the X Case judgment and allow for abortion in the event of a suicide threat from a mother-to-be. Fine Gael's committee team, led by solicitor Jim O'Keeffe, were the main proponents of the 10-year plan. It has two key aims reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies and, then, persuade mothers-to-be not to have abortions. Organised by a new agency reporting annually to the Dail, the plan would entail educating young people about sexuality and contraception. It would provide counselling and information for those with crisis pregnancies, help to arrange adoptions and, for women who chose abortion, there would be post-abortion counselling and a medical check-up programme. The three biggest parties in the Dail are united only on the Exchequer paying for the innovative plan that would alert young people to one effect on unprotected sex the unwanted pregnancy and would also provide real help for pregnant women or those who already had abortions. While Taoiseach Bertie Ahern has a personal preference to hold a new referendum if that is possible or practical the reality is that he is as far removed from his target of all-party consensus as ever he was since taking power. Mildred Fox, one of the four Independents supporting the Government, acknowledged in a TV interview yesterday that Bertie Ahern's wish for a referendum did not necessarily mean that one would take place. She was accepting real politik. Her colleagues on the Independent benchers, Jackie Healy Rae, Tom Gildea and Harry Blaney, also know a thing or two about real politik. Faced with inter-party disagreement, the Taoiseach will have to weigh up the option of the Government leading the way towards a new referendum or splitting over it. Tanaiste Mary Harney is maintaining the PD policy position of dealing with the issue through legislation rather than a referendum. Fine Gael Leader, John Bruton, unsuccessfully sought in the Dail two weeks ago an assurance from Bertie Ahern that the Government would not try to schedule an abortion referendum to coincide with a general election. Mr Bruton's argument is that, if there is to be a third referendum on so divisive an issue, it should be held in isolation. When the Pro-Life Campaign sought to write into the Constitution a ban on abortion it already was barred by law and medical ethics the aim was to copper-fasten an equal right to life of the mother and the unborn. In fact, inserting the ban in the Constitution allowed the Supreme Court decide in the X Case that abortions could be permitted here in strictly limited circumstances. Meanwhile, of course, there has been no limit on the number of Irish women going to the UK to end pregnancies. It is virtually certain the Government will give the go-ahead for the £50m plan to curb pregnancies and reduce the number of Irish abortions in the UK. It is almost equally certain that there will be no new pro-life referendum because of the differences between the main parties. Differences that surfaced 18 years ago are still there and there are more of them. 
