abortion
{ Colm O'Gorman 
    October 12 2014 09:41 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/our-abortion-dilemma-requires-political-leadership-30658376.html }
Her case made worldwide headlines in 2013. She was a 22-year-old mother to an infant son, and she was poor, seriously ill and pregnant. 'Beatriz' is from a rural community in El Salvador. She suffers from a range of serious health conditions and when she discovered she was pregnant, doctors warned her that continuing with the pregnancy would be a serious risk to her health, and likely her life. She was also told that the foetus she was carrying was anencephalic, missing part of its brain and skull, and would not survive outside the womb. Beatriz requested an abortion, but was denied. El Salvador is one of only nine countries globally that prohibits abortion in all circumstances, even if the woman's life is at risk. She was forced to battle through the Salvadoran courts, going finally to the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, which ruled in her favour. After a legal battle lasting months, the Salvadoran authorities relented and ended her pregnancy at 27 weeks when her baby was delivered by caesarean section. The baby lived only for a few hours. Beatriz's health was seriously impacted by both the pregnancy and the trauma of the legal battle. I met her recently in San Salvador. It's over a year since her ordeal, and she remains in very delicate health. She is a petite and softly spoken young woman, and seems almost painfully introverted. I couldn't imagine how she had dealt with the stress of that past year, and all the public attention her case received. She is putting her life back together, doing her best to build a decent life for herself and her son. She clearly dotes on him. Her face lit up when he came to her after we had spoken, and her shyness lifted. She told me that he was her reason for living, and why she fought so hard to survive her life-threatening pregnancy. I was acutely aware that if Beatriz lived in Ireland, she wouldn't have been able to access an abortion here. She could have been forced to endure a non-viable pregnancy until her health declined to such a degree that her life was at risk, whatever the long-term cost to her health. It is poor, young, rural women and girls like Beatriz who are most harmed by El Salvador's total ban on abortion. Middle class and wealthy women can travel to Mexico or the US to access abortion services in private clinics. But that's not an option for those who live in poverty, resulting in an estimated 20,000 clandestine abortions in El Salvador every year. According to the World Health Organisation, 11pc of such abortions result in the death of the woman or girl. El Salvador's abortion laws are killing poor women and girls. El Salvador has amongst the highest levels of teenage pregnancy in the world. Suicide accounts for 57pc of all deaths of pregnant girls aged between 10 and 19. One doctor Amnesty International spoke to detailed how he treated a 10-year-old pregnant rape victim. Termination of her pregnancy wasn't permitted legally, so she was forced to go through the pregnancy and delivered a baby by C-section at 36 weeks. In El Salvador the Catholic Church holds considerable political and social power. Its influence led to a 1998 constitutional amendment resulting in a total ban on abortion. While there last week as part of an Amnesty International delegation, I met with senior government figures and officials, and justices of the Supreme Court. All agreed there is a serious problem, but said the problem was beyond their control, pointing to the constitutional issue and the power of those who oppose abortion. It struck me that El Salvador isn't so dissimilar to Ireland. Our law on abortion is almost as restrictive, our politicians as reluctant to act. Our Constitution also contains a provision which, we are told, means that women and girls cannot access abortion in cases of rape, incest, grave risk to their heath, or fatal foetal impairment. NGOs I spoke with in El Salvador were shocked at the 14-year criminal penalty for abortion in Ireland, which is even harsher than in El Salvador. Just like El Salvador, those who need to access an abortion and who can afford to do so, travel to another jurisdiction. Those who cannot just have to find some way to cope with their situation. In many ways, El Salvador is Ireland without the safety valve of England. In both countries, women and girls are legally prevented, by threat of imprisonment, from making deeply personal choices about how to best manage a risk to their lives or health posed by a pregnancy. Addressing this in either country requires political leadership and courage. It's about time we saw more of both. Colm O'Gorman is CEO of Amnesty International Irish Independent 
