abortion
{  
    November 19 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/abortion-referendum-increasingly-unlikely-26257332.html }
A divisive national vote offering little change is not a politically attractive choice, writes Joseph O'Malley Political Correspondent IF it did little else, the Joint Committee on Abortion educated the politicians to the impossibility of part of their task. And that was to try and reach agreement on how the substantive issue of abortion might best be handled in a further referendum. For more than two decades, various attempts by politicians, lawyers and pro-life lobbyists to find either a legally workable or publicly acceptable formula for a constitutional ban on abortion, have produced one result. They have all failed. However, this time the politicians could agree on the need to offer Irish women with crisis pregnancies more options than that of a British abortion. What was a British solution to an Irish problem has become one where it is accepted there may be a partial Irish solution as well. That comes through the proposed £50m plan to try and reduce the crisis pregnancies, as a means of cutting the abortion rate. And, for a change, the approach unites, rather than divides, all parties. Last week's report was frank about the difficulties it faced. It noted that the committee accepted that past experience with the 1983 and 1992 referendums on abortion showed how hard it was to formulate referendum proposals on abortion: "The ambiguities exposed in the committee's attempts to seek definitions of abortion and associated terms confirm the difficulty of finding terms that will secure certainty of meaning." In 1983, when the first abortion amendment was passed, it was apparent that, sooner or later, the courts would have to clarify the legal ambiguity in the wording. The judges would have to decide between the right to life of the unborn and the equal right to life of the mother, where those rights were in conflict in a specific instance. That happened in 1992 in the X case. There the Supreme Court decided that the suicide risk faced by a pregnant mother ( a 14-year-old rape victim) provided grounds for abortion. Later that year, in the subsequent referendum on the substantive issue, Fianna Fail (with the PDs dissenting) sought to reverse the Court judgment. The 1992 amendment proposed to remove a risk of suicide as grounds for termination of pregnancy. However, liberal and conservative voters made common cause against the change, though for different reasons, and the referendum proposal was rejected by a two to one margin. Both groups were equally dissatisfied with the wording. To the Pro-Life lobby the amendment was too permissive, as they claimed it opened the way for limited abortion. While the liberals argued it was too restrictive, since it failed to take the health of the mother into account as grounds for abortion. Fianna Fail, as part of its campaign to ensure a Yes vote on the substantive issue argued that if the amendment was not passed, then it would have to introduce legislation to implement the Supreme Court decision. It was a political threat, designed to sway conservatives into support for the amendment as the lesser of two evils. But it didn't work. And, of course, the legislation was never introduced. EQUALLY, when Labour joined Fianna Fail in coalition it also (despite holding the Health portfolio and opposing the 1992 amendment and favouring legislation to deal with the problem) did nothing about legislating for the Supreme Court ruling. Of course, that has not prevented Labour once again favouring the legislative option within the Joint Committee, where all the parties took different positions on the substantive issue. Fianna Fail is committed in principle to holding a referendum but is undecided on how to proceed. Fine Gael believes the status quo should continue, and sees no need to legislate for the 1992 Supreme Court decision in the X case. While the PDs, as Mary Harney made clear, are against a divisive referendum. But in a sense no one has yet to decide, since no formula of words for a new amendment has so far been proposed. The Green paper on abortion could not produce one. Neither could the Joint Committee after months of study, and having heard the evidence of expert medical witnesses. The Cabinet sub-committee may not be able to agree one either, given the PD opposition (as in 1992) to any reversal of the X case ruling. That leaves Bertie Ahern personally committed to a referendum, and the four independents on whom the Government depends for its political survival also insistent one should take place within the lifetime of the current Dail. But if the Taoiseach fails to deliver on any referendum undertaking to them will that be seen by the independents as a breach of promise, and be used as a pretext by them to bring down the Government? That seems highly unlikely. For it would do their own re-election chances little good. Certainly, they will go on pressing Bertie Ahern for action. He will continue to offer personal reassurances. Meanwhile the sub-committee will deliberate for months before failing to reach agreement and hand the issue back to the government. At that stage, the abortion issue will have come full circle, but without resolution on the substantive issue. By then the public debate may well have shifted more and more to the common ground that exists between all the political parties. Increasingly, an effective national strategy for dealing with crisis pregnancies, and for the provision of post-abortion services, will be seen as the most realistic and compassionate way of handling a difficult issue. A further divisive referendum campaign that will change nothing may prove a less and less attractive political option. 
