abortion
{ Kathy Donaghy 
    August 09 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/legal-bid-to-overturn-abortion-ban-25970349.html }
The Irish Family Planning Association yesterday launched a major campaign to secure "safe and legal" abortions in Ireland which will include a legal challenge to the ban on abortion. THE IRISH Family Planning Association (IFPA) yesterday launched a major campaign to secure "safe and legal" abortions in Ireland which will include a legal challenge to the ban on abortion here. The campaign launch was disrupted by up to seven members of anti-abortion group Youth Defence, who tried to storm the premises. Gardai were called but no arrests were made. According to IFPA chairperson Catherine Forde, the 'Safe and Legal in Ireland' campaign is "the first major initiative aimed at moving forward on abortion in this country". As part of its campaign, the IFPA is facilitating a group of three women to challenge the Government ban on abortion in the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). The women, whose identities will not be revealed, all had recent abortions in Britain or elsewhere. Campaign spokeswoman Ivana Bacik said the three women lodged a complaint with the ECHR last Monday. Ms Bacik said the complaint centres around four articles of the European Convention of Human Rights. These include the right to privacy in all family, home and personal interests; the right to protection from 'inhuman or degrading treatment'; protection of the life of an individual; and anti-discrimination rights. Ms Bacik, who is Reid Professor of Criminal Law at Trinity College Dublin, said the IFPA had provided the women with the legal research and support to take the case. "It is our assessment that the grounds under which these women are taking the case are very strong, and we hope that the case will advance quickly through the court, ultimately making a strong recommendation to the Government to address what, in our view, is a violation of human rights," she said. According to Catherine Forde, the IFPA is working towards a situation where a referendum would be held on the removal of Article 40.3.3 from the Constitution, which equates the life of the unborn with the life of the pregnant woman. "Since the first Constitutional referendum on abortion in 1983, Ireland has changed: more women living in Ireland access abortion services and more women feel angry and frustrated that they have to travel to Britain and other countries to secure these services," Ms Forde said. Ms Forde said UK statistics showed that 6,217 women from Ireland had abortions in England last year and the IFPA was aware through its post-abortion medical and counselling services that hundreds more secured abortion services elsewhere. The Alliance for Choice said it supported the IFPA's campaign and described the IFPA's policy position as a "much needed and pro-active policy - one that takes the issue back into the public eye, which is necessary to progress a liberal and tolerant society". However, the Pro-Life Campaign accused the IFPA of ignoring the humanity of unborn children and the negative effects of abortion on women. Spokeswoman Audrey Dillon said: "Every society has to confront the reality of crisis pregnancy. The challenge is to create a more welcoming society for expectant mothers and their unborn children by providing positive alternatives to abortion." 
