abortion
{  
    February 17 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/high-abortion-rates-dont-make-a-compassionate-nation-26239272.html }
Sir  Pressure groups like the Alliance for Choice, Doctors for Choice and some elements of the Labour Party, who would like to see us mimic here in Ireland the abortion landscapes of Britain and the US, are adamant that this referendum proposal must be defeated. We have no contr Sir Pressure groups like the Alliance for Choice, Doctors for Choice and some elements of the Labour Party, who would like to see us mimic here in Ireland the abortion landscapes of Britain and the US, are adamant that this referendum proposal must be defeated. We have no control over the abortion laws in Britain. But how anyone can believe that their abortion rates mark them out as one of the great compassionate nations of the world, defies reason. Or that allowing 7,000 abortions in Irish hospitals would somehow constitute a great victory. We have a proposal that is more compassionate, radical and visionary than anything I have heard from those who have nothing to offer but abortion. Brendan Conroy, D14. Sir By voting Yes to the 25th Amendment, we will prevent abortions taking place in Irish hospitals and enshrine in law current Irish ethical medical practice which strives to protect both mothers and babies. This amendment deserves the full support of the Irish people. Sjef Schutte, Galway For Life. Sir Irish psychiatrists are telling us that abortion is not the recommended or compassionate solution where a pregnant woman is suicidal and may even make the situation worse. Secondly, worse since every threat of suicide must rightly be taken as a real threat, then every woman who mentions suicidal feelings will have grounds for an abortion at any stage in the pregnancy. The only reason abortions are not already being carried out under the 1992 judgement is because of the ethical stand of the doctors. If, however, the Yes vote wins and the proposal is passed then the excellent health care available to pregnant women in this country will be given legal support. Then we can focus on the important issue of working to reduce the number of Irish women who have abortions every year. No woman looks on abortion as a good choice but many feel it is the only option they have. Petra Conroy, Celbridge. Sir I'm tired of listening to various groups, strongly advocating a No vote in the upcoming abortion referendum without offering even one realistic alternative themselves. It is all too easy to quote the number of women travelling to Britain each year, without then suggesting a proposal that would reduce those numbers in a way which provides support to women while at the same time acknowledging the humanity of the unborn child. The Government has made a responsible and intelligent proposal, achieving a balance of equal respect between women and unborn children. Mairead Bean Ui Scorloig, Collon. Sir Even if we disregard the moral dubiousness of offering to abort a woman's unborn child in order to persuade her to value her own life, there is no evidence whatsoever to indicate that abortion can treat suicidal tendencies. David Thunder, Indiana. 
