abortion
{  
    June 07 2013 03:06 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/david-quinn/ff-leader-could-learn-from-jfk-speech-on-conscience-29326973.html }
NO matter what mental gymnastics he engages in, the fact is that many Fianna Fail voters will conclude that Micheal Martin's support for the Government's abortion bill is a broken promise on his part. In various forums he gave people the distinct impression that he was against legislating for abortion on the grounds of the X Case. That was as recently as last summer. Now he is in favour of doing just that. He can talk all he likes about the 'restrictive' nature of the abortion bill and talk all he likes about being 'pro-life', but what he has done will still strike many of his own rank and file as a broken promise. It would be interesting to know how many of the people intent on turning up for the major pro-life vigil taking place tomorrow at 3pm in Merrion Square are traditional Fianna Fail voters and what they think of his stance. Fortunately, at least half of Martin's parliamentary party have stuck to their guns on the issue and remain unambiguously opposed to abortion, including on the suicide grounds given that a suicidal pregnant woman can be offered many forms of help other than abortion. This forced Martin to allow a free vote, the first allowed by any of the major political parties in years. For some reason, this country does not really 'do' conscience. Hence the lack of conscience votes in the Oireachtas, and hence the abortion bill's appalling treatment of the issue of conscience. Head 12 is the offending section. There is no opt-out for pro-life hospitals. They must perform abortions on X Case grounds like it or not, and pro-life doctors must refer women seeking abortions to pro-choice colleagues like it or not. Not even Britain with its very permissive abortion law goes this far. Pro-life hospitals are not obliged to perform abortions and doctors are not required under law to refer women seeking abortions to pro-choice doctors. So in this regard, our law is extreme, extreme that is to say in its lack of toleration for conscience. This lack of toleration also extends into politics. Parliamentary parties almost never allow their members a free vote on anything. This contrasts with other parliaments. For example, the French, British and New Zealand parliaments have all had free votes on same-sex marriage lately and when Britain liberalised its abortion law in 1967 it was via a free vote. So what's our problem and why isn't the use of the party whip to scare politicians into line on every single issue not more widely condemned? After all, the merest hint that the Catholic Church might excommunicate members for voting in favour of abortion causes general and loud outrage. In fact, the Catholic Church isn't going to excommunicate anyone over this. It hasn't happened to Catholic politicians in countries with very liberal abortion laws, so why should it happen here? Let's pause for a moment and consider what excommunication is. Excommunication is a declaration that you have done something that puts you 'out of communion' with the Catholic community. Just about every organisation has its own form of excommunication, including political parties. What is expulsion from a parliamentary party but a type of excommunication, a declaration that you have disobeyed the party line, that you are 'out of communion' with your fellows? In Ireland, party discipline is so strict that it is imposed for every vote, no matter how minor. Disobedience is simply not tolerated. Once a party has collectively decided on something, that is that. This is why it is so hypocritical for politicians to attack the church for not completely ruling out excommunication when a Catholic politician disobeys the Catholic line on abortion and supports expulsion from the parliamentary party as a matter of routine. But, protest the politicians, a Catholic politician cannot legislate only for Catholics. That is true and the Catholic community doesn't expect them to. It expects a Catholic politician, just like any other politician, to do the right thing, to follow their conscience and it expects them to inform their conscience properly. In 1960, in the run-up to the presidential election of that year, John F Kennedy gave a famous speech in which he tried to reassure Protestant voters that if he was elected to the White House he would not be subject to the dictates of bishops. He would be a president for everyone. What he said instead is that he would follow his conscience. He said: "Whatever issue may come before me as president, if I should be elected, on birth control, divorce, censorship, gambling or any other subject, I will make my decision in accordance with these views – in accordance with what my conscience tells me to be in the national interest, without regard to outside religious pressure or dictates". This has it just about right. Kennedy is saying that he must act according to his conscience and he does not say that his conscience can't be informed by his faith. The same duty to act according to conscience applies to every politician as it does to everyone else as well. This is why politicians weighing up whether to vote for or against this abortion bill have to obey their conscience. They are morally obliged to do so and they cannot allow anything to compel them to do something they believe is wrong. To put it another way, in the final analysis the only whip that matters isn't the party whip, or the very remote threat of excommunication, it is the whip of conscience. Irish Independent 
