abortion
{  
    February 26 2012 04:46 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/eilis-ohanlon-pro-choicers-argument-leaves-too-much-unsaid-26825670.html }
First there was recession. Then emigration made a comeback. Further proof that we're firmly stuck back in the bad old days comes now with the return of the abortion debate. That was a quarrel that most of us surely wished we'd outgrown as a nation. Instead, it's reared its ugly head again in the form of Socialist TD Clare Daly's private member's bill in the Dail calling for the Government to legislate to comply with the X case. Of course, she's right. It clearly is absurd that, 20 years on from the X case, successive governments have failed to legislate on the issue, leaving the legal position of pregnant women in the sort of limbo where unbaptised babies were once supposed to reside awaiting judgement. But you can be right and still be insufferable. At times last week, the pro-choice lobby sounded almost like the Richard Dawkins of reproductive rights, slapping down anyone who contradicted their view of the foetus as a mere soulless cluster of cells for being trapped in outdated superstitious thinking. You're either with them or against them. On the side of the progressive secular angels, or hanging out with stage villain Catholic diehards. The truth is that most of us are hovering uncertainly somewhere in the middle, not quite sure what to think. I've retained just enough of my po-faced student feminism to tend towards the pro-choice end of the spectrum -- or maybe I'm just more accepting of the fact that, humans being imperfect as they are, there will always be unwanted pregnancies and it's best to deal with them in as safe and practical way as possible. But having a particular strongly held point of view is no excuse for intellectual dishonesty. Even the title of that private member's bill is riven with euphemistic emotional blackmail. The Medical Treatment (Termination of Pregnancy in Cases of Risk to Life of Pregnant Woman) bill? The mother's life already takes precedence in Irish medicine, and so it should. Irish women are not being allowed to die in order to save foetuses; we have one of the lowest maternal mortality rates in the entire world. There may be a risk to the lifestyle of a pregnant woman if she has a baby, because she's too young to cope with the responsibility or because the family finances can't cope with an extra child, but there's rarely a risk to her actual health. The constant invocation of rape victims being forced to carry their attacker's child to full term falls into the same category. Twenty-first Century Ireland isn't a Victorian caricature, and it does no one any favours to pretend that it is. Presenting the issue in this way is the pro-choice equivalent of those pictures of aborted foetuses that pro-lifers used to hang on lampposts around Dublin. It's not an argument, but an appeal to emotion: vote for abortion, or the sick woman will die and the rape victim will be violated again by the system. They're fantasy scenarios. Shock PR, not medical science. People Before Profit's Joan Collins, who is co-sponsoring the abortion bill, even managed to drag the bankers and the public sector cutbacks into the fight. The issue is fraught enough without exploiting it in the name of class warfare, too. I may not always agree with pro-lifers, but at least their position is an honest one. They believe life begins at conception. You can't kill children once they leave the womb, so why should you be allowed to kill them when they're still inside it? I don't have to agree with every link in the chain to see that this is a cogent and persuasive argument. The pro-choice argument involves many more nods and winks and evasions. Too much is deliberately left unsaid. They won't even be pinned down on when "life" begins. That's why the pro-life lobby generally adopts a Not An Inch to changes in abortion law, because pro-choicers can't be trusted to stick to an agreement. Once they have it in law that abortions can be carried out where the mother's life is at risk, they immediately start redefining the definition of risk until it becomes meaningless. Daly's bill explicitly states that the risk of suicide by a mother should qualify as a reason for providing her with an abortion. The end result, as happened in the UK, is that you would effectively have abortion on demand, to the point where, as reported in The Daily Telegraph last week, a mother to be can openly say that she wants an abortion because a baby is the "wrong" sex and many doctors don't even bat an eyelid anymore. And why should they? In England, you can get a termination any time, any place, practically no questions asked. Reasons are simply words the clinic puts down on the form to make sure the paperwork is up to date. Again I'm not even saying abortion on demand is necessarily the wrong way to go, but if that's what you want, then make the case for it openly, in plain language, don't try to have the door opened by the smallest chink, in the expectation that you will then be able to barge through en masse. Changes in law make a difference, after all. Greater availability of contraception, for all its other liberating benefits, did lead to wider sexual promiscuity, which in turn had a destabilising effect on social cohesion. With abortion, pro-choice campaigners are still stuck in default denial mode, refusing to acknowledge that abortion is now regarded by many young women in the countries where it is widely available as an entirely normal procedure, even a form of back-up emergency contraception. There's the same refusal to admit that medical advancements change the situation, too. Babies can live at much earlier stages of development now than they could a generation ago, making it more, not less, important to regulate the conditions under which abortions can be carried out. In Virginia, they're even changing the law so that every woman seeking an abortion must undergo an ultrasound scan first so she can hear the baby's heartbeat before deciding if she wants to put a stop to it. Pro-choicers denounce this it as a cruel added mental burden on women with crisis pregnancies, and it is; if a legal right exists, don't force people to undergo anguish before availing of it. Deep down, though, it's difficult to escape the suspicion that pro-choice campaigners don't actually want to think about the fact that foetuses develop a heartbeat a mere 18 days after conception. Like all fanatics, they don't want to be deflected from the path of righteousness by inconvenient evidence. The truth about abortion is too nuanced to be reduced to a slogan on a sandwich board. Sunday Independent 
