abortion
{ Dearbhail McDonald 
    May 14 2007 11:10 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/abortion-should-remain-illegal-says-pregnant-teen-26288750.html }
ABORTION laws must be changed here - but abortion on demand should remain illegal, Miss D said yesterday. The 17-year-old told the Irish Independent she should be allowed to have her medically-induced abortion in this country. "The laws need to be changed. I don't think that abortion should be allowed unless it is for the right reasons like really bad abnormalities, if there is no life guaranteed. "There should be allowed to be abortions for that and rape cases should be looked at as well." She said women should not be allowed to have abortions on demand here. "I don't think a woman should be allowed to abort a baby just because she doesn't want it, because there is adoption available. "There are people out there who can't have children. "And who is to say that my fertility won't go. I'm not guaranteed." Miss D also believes it's a woman right to make the decision whether she wants to have an abortion. Choice "It's a woman's choice," she said. "Who are all these people in the courtroom thinking they can make my decision? "It's my body. It's not the social worker's body, or the HSE's body. They don't own my body, I own my body." The 17-year-old also said she should be able to have her procedure here. "I should be able to have it in Ireland," she said. "It would have really helped. But it would take a long time for that to happen with politics and all the law and that stuff." She also told how she had never believed in abortion but felt she was left with little choice when she discovered that her baby would not survive for more than three days after birth. "I never believed in abortions, ever, but I never knew of stuff like this. "On the day of the scan when I was walking out of the room. I said: 'So I'll have to get an abortion' and I walked out. "And I sort of left it like that. I thought that was my only option. I was thinking how are they supposed to leave this baby inside me? I won't be able to deal with that." Miss D said she decided to have a medically- induced procedure - where a woman gives birth to the foetus - after she went on the internet to research abortion "I changed my mind because I went on the internet and typed in abortion. "And pro-life came up on the screen and there was pictures of babies who had been aborted and I didn't want that, my baby deserved to live, it deserved more than that."  Dearbhail McDonald 
