abortion
{ Eoghan Harris 
    February 04 2018 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/eoghan-harris/eoghan-harris-fudge-and-fear-likely-to-leave-irish-women-in-the-lurch-again-36564587.html }
If the political fudging of the past week continues for 16 more weeks there will be no Repeal, and no change in our abortion laws. The chief fudger was Simon Coveney but he had plenty of backing across the entire political spectrum. The pro-life polemicists gave the fudgers plenty of covering fire. Like the Fat Boy in Pickwick Papers, "they wants to make your flesh creep". On Prime Time, Danny Healy-Rae repeatedly spoke about a "little baby fighting for its life".  On the Tonight Show, Fidelma Healy Eames gave a graphic image of the foetus sucking its thumb.  Most of us are not callous monsters. Keep imprinting an image of a foetus fighting for its life on us and we are liable to forget context. The context is the old one of the greater good. If we cannot stand to lose a foetus, which is not yet a person, what are we to do about the adult persons, an average of 5,000 women, desperately seeking abortions every year? Last week, Simon Coveney led the field of fudgers who won't legislate to finally end the traumas of the thousands of Irish women who travel in fear and trembling. Kevin Doyle in the Irish Independent reported Coveney's Fine Gael colleagues saying he was in a "tangled web" and "going around 360 degrees". The same sources in typically mawkish Irish fashion said there was "significant sympathy" for Mr Coveney. But he'll get no sympathy from me. That's because a moment's thought should tell him that for public legislators there cannot be an absolute right to life, that private conscience must cede to context, or else, as JFK accepted, they should resign.  Let me start by hanging a lantern on abortion and not looking away. Abortion means letting a foetus die for the greater good of the woman who conceived it.  We make these 'greater good' decisions to limit the right to life all the time. We turn off life-support machines. We send our beloved sons to fight and die in defence of liberty. In 1916, Patrick Pearse's forces took up fighting positions all over Dublin, he had to have foreseen some loss of innocent life. Joe Duffy's Children of the Rising calculates that the Rising which Pearse launched killed 40 innocent children.  Pearse bears some responsibility for their deaths, yet few would call him a murderer. The right to life is not an absolute right. It is subject to the context of the greater good. The same holds for conscience.  Consulting your conscience is admirable - but only if there are adverse consequences for standing firm against a consensus. Back in 1960, faced by charges that he would let his Catholicism get in the way of public duty, John Fitzgerald Kennedy was prepared to pay a price for his conscience if push came to shove.  He told Protestant pastors assembled in Houston that if "my office would require me to either violate my conscience or violate the national interest, then I would resign the office; and I hope any conscientious public servant would do the same". Contrast that straight talking with Simon Coveney's convoluted rigmarole on Sean O'Rourke which finished with him telling us about his three beautiful daughters and his happy family life - but which dodged telling us what he, as an elected representative, proposed to do about the 5,000 Irish women annually seeking abortion.  If Simon Coveney's conscience won't allow him to legislate for abortion then he should either stand up in the Dail and admit honestly that he is happy to let the Brits continue to shoulder our burden - or he should resign his seat.  Let's not be hypocrites here and pretend there is no political difference between sitting on the fence and taking up a firm position for reform. Simon Coveney's conservative stance would be more likely to benefit than damage him in any future Fine Gael leadership race. Abortion will never be electorally attractive. Reform calls for the most courageous kind of political leadership - and for that courage to be commended.  Micheal Martin, Billy Kelleher, Lisa Chambers and Ned O'Sullivan of Fianna Fail, gave brave leadership. But commendations from male political pundits were in short supply. I believe Pat Leahy's report in The Irish Times did not adequately register the courage of Martin's stance before focusing on  problems it might cause him in Fianna Fail. Fine, if Leahy had also highlighted the downside of Coveney's confused stance rather than give us the risible heading: "Tanaiste's declaration adds a new dynamic to abortion debate."  Surprisingly, Leahy passed up one possible positive side to the Minister for Foreign Affairs' position. How did he miss that Coveney and the DUP now share a common stance against abortion? The protective cordon of The Irish Times also failed to point up that the Taoiseach was dilatory in giving the 12 weeks aspect of the Repeal campaign the energy it needed.  But at least, unlike the Tanaiste, Leo Varadkar finally took up a firm position. And in his reported remarks to the Cabinet he said something admirable and memorable. The Taoiseach rightly remarked that Ireland was "a country where men have told women what to do for too long". That is true. And the abortion debate is providing many examples of young male fogeys who would like to silence women.  As the classicist Mary Beard points out, this silencing of women begins in the first work of Western literature, Homer's Odyssey. Telemachus, a little s**t barely out of his teens, tells his wise mother Penelope to shut up and go back to her woman's work on her loom.  After that it got worse, with witch burnings by the tens of thousands along the way, down to the sexual and social repression of women in our own time.  Like most men, I find it as hard to put myself in women's shoes as southern nationalists find it to walk in unionist shoes - and vice-versa. But it must be done. Behind our paper-thin liberalism and alleged agnosticism lies a deep repressive DNA - centuries of clerical male sexual control of women's lives. That is why I support our angry women while wishing they would mind the middle ground by stressing their responsibility to suffering Irish women as much as their right to abortion. Let me finish by calling the bluff of those who say abortion is murder. After Sunningdale, the Cosgrave government passed legislation giving extra-territorial effect to our criminal law so if someone murdered a policeman in London they could be tried for it in the Republic. If the pro-lifers really believe abortion is murder then let them use the provision to bring first-degree murder charges against Irish women, who have had abortions in the UK, when they come home. But of course it won't happen because Middle Ireland knows that abortion is not murder. At worst it amounts to lawful killing for the greater good. So what to do? First, face the fact that every abortion is about an individual woman. No law can cover all cases. The best we can do is a compulsory cooling-off period and then leave it to the woman and her doctors.  Sunday Independent 
