abortion
{ Maeve Sheehan 
    September 13 2014 10:34 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/news/hse-doctors-and-lawyers-clashed-over-ms-y-case-30585067.html }
Doctors and lawyers involved in the care of the young woman known as Ms Y clashed over her care while she was in hospital hoping for an abortion, according to claims made to an inquiry into her treatment. The claims - which are disputed - have emerged during the HSE's inquiry into the care given to the asylum seeker who said she was pregnant as a result of rape, suicidal and wanted an abortion. She was told it was too late in her pregnancy for an abortion and her baby was delivered by Caesarean section at 25 weeks. The "alleged differences" apparently centred on the legal decision by the HSE to go to the High Court to ask for permission to forcibly hydrate the young woman, in advance of delivering her baby by Caesarean section. The young woman had refused food and drink after being told it was too late for an abortion. Informed sources refused to divulge the nature of the disagreements, but said they highlighted the difficulties involved in what was reportedly the first case of a suicidal woman seeking an abortion under the new legislation. One source claimed that a "firm divergence of opinion" has now emerged between professionals. However, another source said the claims of differences of professional opinion will be disputed and warned of "agendas" at play. The claims have emerged during the HSE's inquiry into the young woman's treatment, which was launched last month, between some of the professionals involved in the case. The HSE has declined to comment on an ongoing investigation. But when launching the inquiry last month, it said that if disputes of facts emerge during the inquiry, they will be reflected in the report. The alleged dispute adds another layer of complication to what is already a complex inquiry into Ms Y's treatment. The complexities highlighted by her case have led to calls for the legislation on abortion to be changed and for the Constitutional amendment on abortion to be repealed. Ms Y was reported to be the first woman to be referred for an abortion under the section of the Protection of Life during Pregnancy Act that allows the risk of suicide as grounds for an abortion. The HSE investigation is establishing the facts of the case, including why it took so long for Ms Y to be assessed for an abortion under the Protection of Life during Pregnancy Act. She arrived in Ireland earlier this year, seeking asylum. She later found out that she was pregnant, which she said was as a result of rape, and wanted an abortion. The Irish Family Planning Association, which had been helping her, raised concerns for her welfare with the HSE public health nurses early in her pregnancy. Another non-governmental agency, Spirasi, says it warned the Department of Justice and the HSE that she was suicidal when she was around 16 weeks pregnant. Despite these interventions about her welfare, the young woman was moved to a different accommodation centre, where she appeared to have lost contact with the counsellors who had been helping her. She also spoke little English. It is believed that she was at least five months pregnant by the time she was finally assessed for an abortion under new legislation enacted last year. A three-person panel of experts deemed her to be suicidal but by then it was too late for her to have an abortion because her foetus was considered viable outside the womb. The new legislation recognises a pregnant mother's right to an abortion if she is suicidal but the unborn's right to life is protected in the Constitution. Her pregnancy was terminated under Section 9 of the Protection of Life during Pregnancy Act, and her baby was delivered by Caesarean section, five days after the HSE went to the High Court seeking permission to forcibly hydrate her. The court was reportedly told that the young woman consented to the procedure. Sunday Independent 
