abortion
{ NIAMH HOOPER and EUGENE HOGAN 
    November 30 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/fg-clash-over-abortion-26169934.html }
FINE GAEL leader John Bruton is being forced to face the thorny issue of abortion head-on again.At a conference at the weekend Young Fine Gael voted for extra options for abortion in cases of incest, rape or where the health of the mother was at risk. But despite Mr Bruton's total rejection of their call, the party's youth wing confirmed to the Irish Independent that it will go ahead as planned and raise the matter with the senior party front bench. Yesterday Mr Bruton said: ``If you have abortion in those circumstances you effectively have abortion on demand.'' However, he accepted ``there is a somewhat hypocritical situation insofar as Irish people are going to Britain where the abortion rate among Irish people is probably as high as among residents of other countries.'' The emphasis should be placed on trying to reduce the factors that dissuade people from allowing the child to live, he said. ``I believe an unborn child is an unborn child and not a thing; it is not some sort of object out there that can be manipulated by a third party. It is a person and I believe that very strongly. I think there is a tendency for people just because the person in question is invisible physically to deny their existence. I don't think we can deny the existence of the unborn child.'' Legislation was probably inevitable in light of Cypriot Court decisions and he did not envy the government their task, he said. He had strongly favoured divorce and probably swung the vote on polling day, but he did not apply the same standards on abortion, because it is taking a life, he said. However, YFG national youth officer Joanne Harmon confirmed that despite a lack of support from the party leader on their radical adoption of a new policy supporting limited availability of abortion in Ireland, they will raise the matter with the party's front bench. Delegates at the 15th national conference in the Connemara Coast Hotel, Co Galway, spent more than an hour discussing abortion policy proposals in front of plenary session chairperson Mary Banotti. YFG reaffirmed its support for the right to travel, the right to information, the provision for limited abortion where there is a real and substantive risk to the life, as distinct from the health, of the mother, including self-destruction and the provision for limited abortion where there is a real and substantive risk to the long-term health (including mental health) of the mother, and including self-injury. It favoured limited abortion in the case of incest and rape. The conference did, however, carry a motion opposing abortions in the second/third trimester of pregnancy but rejected a motion calling for a medico-legal forum to supervise individual applications for abortions on a case-by-case basis. Ms Harmon said the new policy will more than likely be raised at the forthcoming Fine Gael national conference. ``John Bruton has always made his position clear on abortion but we are a completely separate and autonomous party and have our own range of views and policies,'' she said. Young Fine Gael landed other hot potatoes on the lap of its senior party by adopting motions calling for the decriminalisation of both cannabis and prostitution. Proposing the motion calling on the Government to regulate the prostitution industry, National Executive member John Smith said that the murder of 19-year-old Dublin prostitute Sinead Kelly earlier this year showed that the country's prostitutes are among the most vulnerable people in society. After ten years of failure, lobbyists also got their way when a motion supporting ``the legalisation and regulation of cannabis'' was carried. Proposing the motion, Michael Fitzpatrick, YFG, Dublin North East, questioned why cannabis should be rated a ``Class A'' drug in the same bracket as heroin, cocaine and amphetamines, etc when it was clearly less harmful than some soft drugs like alcohol.  Another controversial motion calling for a ``Partnership Law'' to allow same sex couples (neither of whom are married) to enjoy the same legal rights as married couples in relation to tax, inheritance and welfare entitlements was narrowly defeated. 
