abortion
{ By MARTINA DEVLIN 
    September 26 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/support-grows-for-poll-on-abortion-survey-26110204.html }
MORE than three-quarters of people favour a referendum on abortion, according to a poll commissioned by the  Pro-Life Campaign. Only 6pc of those surveyed oppose a referendum. And almost half support a constitutional amendment to prohibit all abortion except to save a mother's life, as is current practice. Almost three in five believe the Government should mount a campaign to offer women with crisis pregnancies alternatives to abortion, shows the poll, published yesterday. One in 11 Irish pregnancies currently ends in abortion, compared with one in four British pregnancies. The results of the survey of more than 1,200 adults at 70 locations throughout the state, carried out by Irish Marketing Surveys, will be passed on to the all-party Oireachtas group studying the abortion issue. TD Brian Lenihan's committee is due to report to Government at the end of October. ``A strong majority of people favour a referendum they want democratic access to this big, important issue in human rights, that much is clear,'' said Pro-Life legal adviser Professor William Binchy. ``There is more support for protection of the life of the unborn in the broad sense now, in my judgment, than there ever has been. We are constantly encouraged by the enthusiasm of young people on this issue. ``There might be a presumption that women are more in favour of abortion than men, but polls consistently show the opposite. My feeling is also that young people are not more in favour of abortion.'' An increasing number of Irish women are going to England for abortions the figure for the Republic currently tops 6,000, compared with 4,500 fives years ago. But Professor Binchy said: ``We do what we can against a background of abortion being part of international culture, although a very recent part. It's really only been going for a generation. We can set the legal framework so the unborn are protected. ``Abortion is increasingly seen as having delivered not liberation, but something which many people who were advocates for abortion now realise involves injustice and erosion of human rights.'' The last referendum was eight years ago, when 60pc voted in favour of the right to information, and a slightly bigger group supported the right to travel elsewhere for an abortion. The Pro-Life Campaign insists the political will is there for an abortion referendum next year but the Government is moving cautiously on it.  OBLIGATION Professor Binchy said unplanned or unwanted pregnancies could have serious repercussions for women and advocated practical measures to help them cope. These included assistance with accommodation, creche facilities and furthering single mothers' education. ``There is an obligation on a society which says no to abortion to offer full economic support,'' he said. It was up to the Government to prioritise funding to ensure this happened. Senan Molony writes: Seven members of Youth Defence were excluded from a Fianna Fail political meeting at a Dublin hotel at which the Taoiseach was giving an address. They were asked to leave by officials fearful of a similar demonstration that disrupted the Fianna Fail address in March when two Youth Defence members vaulted a barrier and ran towards Mr Ahern during his speech. 
