abortion
{ By LORNA REID 
    June 01 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/unresolved-issue-that-will-not-go-away-26115181.html }
AFTER A month of public hearings, the Joint All Party Committee on the Constitution now has the unenviable task of trying to produce a report on Abortion.But the divergent views which were expressed to the Committee from the numerous lobby and interest groups which appeared before it may well be reflected in the committee membership itself. The remit of the Committee to conduct hearings in public ran out at the end of May, but now its members will spend the next couple of months in private session working on a report which Chairman Brian Lenihan hopes to be able to put before the Oireachtas in the autumn. The Committee received 105,000 submissions, 99pc of which are seeking a Referendum for Option One in the Green Paper, a total ban on abortion. The testimony from medical experts including the three Masters of the Dublin maternity hospital was the most compelling aspect of the nine days of public hearings, and although their evidence made up the bulk of the Committee's early work nobody has yet managed to come up with a definition of abortion in the Irish context. What has emerged though is that there is no appetite for abortion on demand in the country. The doctors are reluctant to cede any control to the legislators in the sensitive issue of medical guidelines as to what constitutes an abortion. They argued that in rare cases about one or two in Ireland a year abortion, or termination of pregnancy is necessary, because of medical complications, to save the life of the mother. As the Master of the Rotunda, Dr Peter McKenna put it, ``if you don't save the life of the mother, the baby dies, it's as simple as that.'' Faced with the dilemma of whether to recommend yet another Referendum or legislation to deal with the Supreme Court ruling in the X case, the All party Committee at least favours doing something. ``We have to have legislative certainty so that doctors know where they stand'' says Brian Lenihan. While organisations such as Pro Life are still insisting that an absolute ban is the only solution they do concede that doctors should be allowed to continue to use ``medical intervention.'' While the result is the same, the premature termination of a pregnancy, Pro Life say medical intervention where it is necessary to save the life of the mother does not constitute abortion. ``What we are against'' said William Binchy, the Regius Professor of Law at Trinity, ``is the specific targetting of the life of the unborn.'' ``The X case did support the targetting of the life of the unborn and we fear that this could lead to widespread abortion in the country'' he said. But the Chief Executive of the Well Woman Centre Alison Begas told the Committee that it was wrong for individual women to be forced into court to test the Constitution on a personal decision such as abortion. The stark reality of statistics confirms that at least 6,000 Irish women obtain an abortion in the UK every year. The numbers are rising, and on any one day 20 to 30 women who provide Irish addresses are in British clinics undergoing a termination of their pregnancy. Even if limited abortion was to be introduced in Ireland, the Masters of the maternity hospitals feel that women will still go to the UK to avail of the anonymity. But with this anonymity comes the loss of research into women's health. There are no medical records for doctors and healthcare professionals to work with in Ireland and the only inkling Irish doctors get of post abortion problems is if a woman presents at an Irish hospital or surgery with complications or infections resulting from the termination. The argument that the increased availability of contraception, particularly to teenagers would slow down the Irish abortion rate was shot down firmly by a relationships and sexuality teacher Breda O'Brien. Ms O'Brien suggested to the Committee that teenagers should be encouraged to ``delay'' entering sexual relationships but she could not give an effective ``age of consent''. As Committee chairman Brian Lenihan (FF) put it, `` At what age do you say to teenagers or youngsters, if you can't be good, be careful''. It is recognised that the minefield which has become the ``abortion issue'' has to be tackled and tackled in a mature and responsible way. The ostrich mentality won't work anymore and the voices of 100,000 Irish women who have abortions outside the State since 1983 are unlikely to be heard in public. GOING the route of another referendum seems fraught with difficulty. On two occasions the people have failed to find an acceptable solution. There are those who advocate a total ban on abortion in the country, but the medical profession fears that such a ban would or could endanger the lives of some women. ``If there was a total ban, and I had a patient who would die if she did not have a termination I would look after my patient and argue about it afterwards'' Dr McKenna told the Committee. Brave words, but no medic should be put in that position by our failure as a society to deal with the issue. 
