abortion
{ Dearbhail McDonald 
    October 10 2014 09:16 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/abortion-is-a-reality-of-modern-irish-life-even-if-we-continue-to-export-it-to-the-uk-30655011.html }
How would we react if a woman, travelling on a Ryanair or Aer Lingus flight to Ireland after a partially medical induced abortion in England, haemorrhaged and died mid-air on her way home to deliver her stillborn foetus? This is not a mere hypothesis, but a potential risk for the small but growing number of women travelling to the UK for terminations after receiving a fatal foetal diagnosis such as Edwards' Syndrome or anencephaly. Ireland does not permit termination of pregnancy in cases of fatal foetal abnormality. Nor are abortions permitted in cases of rape or incest unless the woman or young girl can tick a suicide box. And even if she does pass the suicide test, she may - as the recent Miss Y case demonstrated - have to deliver in any event if viability is an issue. Earlier this week it was revealed that Dr Sam Coulter Smith, the Master of the Rotunda Hospital, raised concerns with the Health Services Executive about an increase in the number of women travelling home to give birth to their stillborn babies. They do so at risk to their physical and mental health, exposing themselves to the possibility of infection, bleeding and - in the worst case scenario - fatal haemorrhaging. This is not scaremongering: it's a fact. The women, whose foetuses are deemed not to be incompatible with life, travel to the UK to avail of a two step procedure. Foeticide, there's no easy way to say it or describe it, involves administering an injection to stop the heart of the foetus. This is Part A. Part B involves giving the woman a drug, typically mifepristone, which causes the placenta to separate from the endometrium and soften the cervix. Another drug, usually taken 48 hours later, induces contractions that allows the stillborn foetus to be delivered. Why would a woman jeopardise her health and travel home, presenting at an Irish hospital to deliver her stillborn, further complicating her medical care? The answers are myriad. She may wish to be home in familiar surroundings, supported by family and friends at a time of huge distress. She may wish to have a post-mortem carried out on the foetus's remains, to search for answers and see if there is any risk to future pregnancies. The difficulties of repatriating the remains of a stillborn foetus are well known, and many families simply do not want the trauma of having the remains shipped home to arrive at their door by courier some weeks later. Why would she not just deliver the foetus and let it die in an Irish hospital? This is a much more difficult question to answer. Some women choose to proceed with the pregnancy, even if their baby survives mere minutes or hours. Others choose to terminate, unable to contemplate a pregnancy where there is no compatibility with life. Who are we to judge her? It would be interesting to see how the Supreme Court would deal with such an incompatibility-with-life scenario now following the 2009 frozen embryo case and A, B and C case which gave birth to last year's Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act. In the frozen embryo (Roche) case, the now Chief Justice, Susan Denham - albeit addressing the entirely different context of unimplanted embryos - said that the concept of unborn envisages "a state of being born, the potential to be born, the capacity to be born". What if the unborn is incompatible with life even if it is capable of being born only to die a short time later? The State, funnily enough, has already answered that question. It argued before the European Court of Human Rights in the A, B and C case that there is "at least a tenable" argument which would seriously be considered by the domestic courts to the effect that a foetus was not an "unborn" for the purposes of Article 40.3.3 or that, even if it was an "unborn", its right to life was not actually engaged as it had no prospect of life outside the womb. It told the court that in the absence of a domestic decision, it was impossible to foresee that Article 40.3.3 clearly excluded an abortion in these circumstances in Ireland. Yet the Government refused to hear the voices of women who experienced a termination for medical reasons and refused to countenance a change in the law in cases of fatal foetal abnormality when the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act was passed last year. Of course, the task of reconciling these difficult questions, should not be left to unelected judges to decide. It lies with our legislators, our public representatives who have turned their back on the turning tide of public opinion which, in recent polls, shows strong support for abortion in limited cases of rape and fatal foetal abnormality. Fewer people want to see the UK's 1967 Abortion Act extended on this island, north or south. But the North, a traditionally conservative society which is equally as convulsed by the abortion question as we are, has recently opened a public consultation on its abortion legislation to explore whether their laws should be changed to accommodate termination for medical reasons and termination for victims of sexual violence. We could follow the North's lead and at least have an inclusive and respectful debate about abortion. Fine Gael TD Jerry Buttimer's deft handling of the debate during the passage of the 2013 act shows that we can. Incredibly, no one of child bearing age in the Republic of Ireland has had an opportunity to give their views on abortion. Instead, we are all shackled to the chains of the 1983 'right-to-life' referendum, a product of its time that has failed to satisfy anyone, pro life or pro choice. There are no simple answers, but we can not ignore that abortion is a reality, even if we export it. The path to legal abortion in Ireland is littered with the tombstones of women who have suffered or died because of our inability to confront one of life's difficult questions. We can't afford to erect any more tombstones. Irish Independent 
