abortion
{  
    December 09 2001 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/shes-mad-as-hell-26252222.html }
Fifteen years ago Mary Coughlan travelled to Britain to have an abortion. It's a decision she doesn't regret. Here she  uses her powerful voice to talk to Aengus Fanning about the Irish women who shared the night of her abortion, her anger at anti-abortion campaigners, drink, dr Fifteen years ago Mary Coughlan travelled to Britain to have an abortion. It's a decision she doesn't regret. Here she uses her powerful voice to talk to Aengus Fanning about the Irish women who shared the night of her abortion, her anger at anti-abortion campaigners, drink, drugs, housing, the state-sponsored terrorism of George W Bush and the sick attitude of the music business MARY Coughlan, eyes flashing, red hair flying, owner of one of the most powerfully sexy voices since Billie Holiday, is using that inimitable voice to deliver an impassioned oration on the state of the world. Abortion, addiction, alcoholism, manufactured pop music and illegal dumping these are symptoms of the great spiritual emptiness at Ireland's heart. Look at our passive response to Afghanistan why doesn't anyone care any more? Things are falling apart, and nobody seems to give a damn. Mention of the nation's leader prompts a typically colourful response: "Bertie Ahern has headed so far up Blair's arse, and Bush's, and the whole war thing the whole country is just going along with it." Mary gets particularly incensed about pro-life campaigners. "I have seen recently that the pro-life movement are still giving out the leaflets," she says. "They have these horrific leaflets terrorising the young people of Ireland with pictures of aborted foetuses I don't know where they get their pictures. It upsets me a lot." She has her own reasons to be angry about such pictures. "I had an abortion years ago and I suppose there isn't a week that goes by that I don't think of the night that myself and three other Irish women that I met, strangely enough, on the boat on the way over we all arrived at the clinic in this hospital in London. Three of them, one of me, and there were only six women in the room. One of them was Spanish and one English and the rest Irish. "I think of them regularly every time this whole issue comes up and I think of the terror they were going through and the terrible fear. I will never forget that night as long as I live, bawling crying the whole night, the whole lot of us, nobody there belonging to any of us, no friends we just had each other in misery for company for the night." The women's stories constitute a tragic Canterbury Tales. "One woman spent the money for her wedding dress on her abortion her fiancé would never find out. If he found out, that would be the end of them." She was engaged to be married to the man, but she couldn't turn to him in her hour of greatest need. Another girl was doing her Leaving Cert it was March, so she had three months to go. "She was supposed to be studying Maths, and she went to her friend's house overnight, so she had to be out and over to London in the middle of the night and spirit herself back the next day without anybody finding out." The girl was 17. Mary says her own abortion was the result of her own right to choose. "I had three children already I'd had two miscarriages and three children. I now have five children so I feel I know what I am talking about. I made a decision. It was a very bad situation in my life at the time. That was my decision and my choice. I challenge the pro-life people to explain what makes them hate somebody or what makes them want to have power over other people. Why should they think that they can force another woman to do what they want with her body? It is none of their business." WHATEVER their stories, the women in the clinic all had one thing in common. "We were all there in secret, we were all terribly, terribly f**king confused, but the one thing we did know was that this was the right thing to do, even at that stage. "It was 1986, and the whole abortion thing was coming up. I would have been fairly politically active and would probably have been the clearest about what I was doing. I didn't ever make any secret about it to anybody." Mary has never regretted her decision to have the abortion. "If you make a decision, with all of the choices taken into consideration, you make it as responsibly as you can. "I don't regret anything in my life. Even the awful times I don't regret. I am glad it has brought me to where I am now. I don't think there is any other way. We just have to cope as best as we can with what life throws at us. You cannot plan for things to happen." But she is worried about our apathetic response to the upcoming abortion referendum. "I don't know what it is about Ireland, or women in Ireland so much are they too consumed with f**king working, or they don't give a shite? I don't know what it is but there has been very little talk about it. I don't think anybody gives a damn any more. They have a f**king vote and nobody bothers to go out to vote. My view is that it's nobody's business except the woman's. There should be no referendum, it shouldn't be written into our constitution. I think it is a f**king disgrace that the Government in this country should be able to tell me what I should or shouldn't do with my body." Her own experience tells her that the numbers heading to London for abortions are grossly underestimated. "Technically you are supposed to go to prison but there are 7,000 women who go to London every year and give their address as being Irish. The women who were there that night, none of us gave our address we gave the address we were staying in that night. That was four of us out of how many more that don't give their addresses." She makes the point that a lot of pro-lifers seem indifferent to life after birth. "If they are pro-life, there are lots of other things that they could be pro-active about in the pro-life business like there are 60 people homeless here in Bray every night of the week. "My son goes to college in Ballyfermot and he sees junkies on the bus every morning shooting up. Why don't the pro-lifers go out and spend the day with them and give them some of the f**king money that they are raising to print horrible pictures of aborted foetuses on Grafton Street? There are old people living in Bray, as there are all over the country, with nobody to visit them except St Vincent de Paul. There are people starving to death ... there are other things they could be doing with their money." She rages at our unwillingness to redress inequality. "The pro-life people could set up a hospital with all the money they have and get the old people off the trolleys it is pathetic the money in this country." She points to the Vincent Browne show on the radio on Monday night when economist Moore McDowell wouldn't accept that an increase of £18 on £66 to give the poorest 10 per cent of households £84 a week income was pathetic. Mr McDowell went on to say his wife and dependents would not like the money needed to fund the increase to be taken from his £1,000-a-week-plus salary. Mary feels we aren't doing enough for the children already here, never mind the unborn. "It is not a very pretty business. There was a horrific situation recently my daughter Aoife saw three junkies on the back of the bus and they were all using the same needle and they had two children with them. They got off the bus without one of the children they forgot about the child! The bus driver had to bring her to the guards. "Now, what about those kids that are here already? Who is going to go around and tell them that they are cherished equally in this nation? Who is going to provide for them and tell them that it is going to be all right that they are not going to go through the same life as their mother? There is a lot more to be done." And who's going to do it? Not the current Government, Mary suspects. "Nobody really cares. The Government don't care we have a very weak Government, I feel, and I don't think there is anybody in the country that is strong enough to lead Ireland out of the shite that it is in now, spiritually." This spiritual poverty is bringing us to our knees. "There is no hope I think that's why most people are drinking in the pub every evening after work. Most young people have money they don't have any religion, they don't have leadership, they don't have any clear idea of where they are going in life. There is no belief in the country, no belief in the nation." Mary is angry about the environment, and sees the damage being done as a product of our apathy. "There's very little left junkies and dogs shit on the street, people dumping out in Wicklow, nobody cares. Sellafield on our back door and a f**king Government a pathetic Government who see fit to take out an ad in the paper and say, 'That's it, lads, we don't like what you are doing, and we will all sign the f**king pathetic letter.' That's it. They should boycott f**king England, boycott the food, boycott everything that comes out. Who gives a shit about a letter in the paper from a few Irish politicians?" Her global perspective gives her an insight into the way that local issues are being manipulated by international forces. "I campaigned with a few people two and half years ago to stop the PFP Partnership For Peace. We were in the Dáil every day listening to the debate. The whole thing became clear to me when I was reading a lot of alternative literature to do with the road that is going through the Glen of the Downs and the whole European thing. "I went down to Wicklow County Council and looked at the plans for the roads for Ireland. The road from Rosslare that cuts through the Glen of the Downs, that goes all the way up to Belfast, that will go over to Scotland, that will go up into Denmark, is part of Euro Route One. The reason they wanted Euro One to go through the Glen of the Downs is that the road had to be up to scratch for supertankers, nuclear f**king bombs and whatever they want to move. They had to knock the Glen so that the road would be included on the map for Europe 2004. They said it was to make that area safer, and they came up with all sorts of shite. "We were in the Dáil every day for the whole debate. There was a crowd of Quakers there from Wexford who didn't want this Partnership For Peace thing they were wearing white gloves as a symbol for peace. We weren't allowed to bring anything in. They made them take off their white gloves going into the Dáil how petty and stupid." Her response to Afghanistan is characteristic: "F**king state terrorism state-sponsored terrorism. President Bush is just like his father his father was a f**king killer too. "America will never learn they have gotten so many people on their side now with their f**king crying into their hankies with the World Trade Centre, which was a terrible, terrible atrocity. I don't know if they know for sure who did it, but they are certainly profiting big time out of it; they have mobilised the whole f**king war industry, they are warmongering, they are killing hundreds, maybe thousands of children we don't know about, they are ruining the infrastructure of the country. They don't give a f**k they will piss off out of there and leave them in another few years. They will concentrate on Iraq. Where do they want to go? It is imperialism. "Blair is so I want to break the TV every time I see him and Bertie Ahern ... I saw pictures of aeroplanes being refuelled in Shannon. The word is that people don't want that Ireland is regarded as a nuclear-free zone." Another issue that exercises Mary is housing, and its effect on people in impoverished areas. "Why can't they build houses for people? Why can't this Government house people without subjecting them to the f**king horrific living conditions that they have to endure before they can be given a little piece of the cake. Why does it have to be like that? "Is it to keep the structure there, to keep the poor down, to keep them there, to make them suffer for some unknown reason? They throw money at the drug programme like it's a Band Aid. It will take at least three generations of proper care, counselling, housing three generations to get rid of a drug problem in an area." Drinking is an equally intractable problem. "It's just a way to hide the pain. It's horrific. People are unable to cope with what's going on in their lives. It's a means of escape and everyone can do it if you have a couple of glasses of wine it relaxes you and you forget your worries for a while, but to do it systematically seven nights a week, start when you are 18, leaving school and getting a job, you will become physically addicted to it, emotionally, psychologically, spiritually broken, and it is a symptom of the way the country is." MARY believes alcohol addiction is getting much worse. "I know people in the Rutland [addiction treatment] Centre and they say that there is still a lot of talk about junkies but drink is still the biggest f**king killer in the country, the biggest breaker-down of families, and the whole fabric of society." Meanwhile, her passion for music means she abhors the kind of thing that tends to top the charts. "I think the music business is atrocious. The whole pop star thing it's not I am begrudging Westlife or Boyzone their success, but it's the fact that somebody has the power to actually, from the word go, manufacture a band and then infiltrate the airwaves and f**king get kids as young as seven, eight, nine, who don't really know what they are doing or thinking or listening to, buy the records and make them millionaires. I think that is a very, very sick attitude. "Most of the bands can't f**king sing it's all done in the studios, and it leaves young kids powerless, it gives them a feeling that they have these idols and that they are worthless children, that they don't have any input. The Beatles had something to say about music." Mary Coughlan is appearing with Professor Peter O'Brien at the Civic Theatre, Tallaght, tonight at 8pm. Mary and Peter play Whelan's of Wexford Street on Saturday, December 15 
