abortion
{ Paul Melia 
    September 05 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/youth-defence-protesters-disrupt-pro-choice-groups-meeting-over-ban-on-abortion-25929744.html }
A PROTEST by militant anti-abortion group Youth Defence interrupted a  meeting of a pro-choice group yesterday who called for a change in the law to allow Irish women procure abortions here. The Alliance for Choice group, an umbrella body which includes the Irish Family Planning Association and the National Women's Council of Ireland, called for a change in the Constitution to remove the 8th Amendment which prohibits abortion here. Midway through presentations yesterday morning, the meeting was interrupted by nine protesters from Youth Defence who burst into a suite at the Shelbourne Hotel chanting "abortion is murder." Holding placards depicting an aborted foetus, the group remained in the suite for around ten minutes while Alliance supporters held hands and sang 'We Shall Overcome'. The Alliance later issued a statement condemning the protest, saying Youth Defence's actions were "violent and intimidatory" and that the group had no right to prevent people expressing their views. The meeting was told that between 100,000 and 150,000 Irish women had travelled to the UK for abortions since the 8th Amendment was introduced in 1983, and that termination rates among Irish women ran at 7.5 per 1,000. Figures, supplied by the UK Statistics Office, also show that in the first quarter of last year 1,689 women travelled to the UK for a termination. Chairperson of Youth Defence Eoghan de Faoite accused the Alliance of being "highly hypocritical" and of exaggerating the figures. The State had an obligation to ensure that people who had unplanned children were provided for, he said, and educational programmes had failed to curb the numbers of crisis pregnancies. People who became pregnant and didn't want to keep the child should consider adoption. Launching '20 years since the 8th Amendment', a collection of articles by people involved in the campaign to legalise abortion, Catherine Forde of the IFPA said the story of abortion in Ireland was a "very sad" one. There had been no decrease in the number of women having abortions. Abortion didn't have a lot to do with women but a lot to do with political expediency, she said. "Safe legal abortion has been available in Denmark for 30 years and in June this year they have had their lowest rate.In contrast, Ireland, which introduced a total ban 20 years ago, has had a steadily increasing rate of abortion." Labour MEP Proinsias de Rossa said the battle to secure abortion rights for women would not be "a short campaign". "I'm glad I witnessed the fundamentalism that is the opposition of abortion," he said. "They really have no conception of what life is about. It's not acceptable in a republic, and we have to fight it." 
