abortion
{  
    March 03 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/the-case-for-voting-no-26239617.html }
NEXT Wednesday for the fifth time in 20 years, the voters will make a choice in an abortion referendum that will also make a statement about this country. If passed, the  referendum result will confirm what was never really in any doubt, namely that the Irish people strongly EDITORIAL NEXT Wednesday for the fifth time in 20 years, the voters will make a choice in an abortion referendum that will also make a statement about this country. If passed, the referendum result will confirm what was never really in any doubt, namely that the Irish people strongly oppose abortion in this state, but not elsewhere. Each year some 7000 women travel to Britain to terminate unwanted pregnancies, and that will continue as before. A majority Yes vote will obviously express the extent of our national concern about the protection of unborn life. It will, however, change little, and the passage of the latest constitutional amendment on abortion will be achieved at much too high a cost. For it will remove the limited legal protection women enjoy, as established in the Supreme Court decision in the X case, which allows for termination of pregnancy where a woman's life is at serious risk from suicide. This referendum is both unnecessary and divisive, and further tinkering with constitutional prohibitions on abortion is the wrong way to proceed. The mere fact that this is the fifth such plebiscite in 20 years speaks for itself. No matter what the outcome on Wednesday, Ireland will still export her abortion problem to Britain, and do so by stealth and in secrecy. Yet, as a self-governing country, we are free to make our own decisions in our own way; not least to express our disapproval of abortion, while at the same time accepting, as we do, that those who wish to terminate an unwanted pregnancy should enjoy both a right to information about abortion, and a right to travel abroad to have that medical operation. There may be a degree of hypocrisy in this approach. Nevertheless, we are free to set out own standards of behaviour, and we are not bound to follow the example set by others, and particularly those countries, like Britain or the US, which have introduced liberal abortion regimes. But that said, there is an easier, and a simpler, way to deal with the abortion issue, other than writing a further restrictive anti-abortion clause into the Constitution, complete with accompanying legislation, which can only be changed following a further referendum. Such an approach is inflexible and inappropriate. The Constitution is not the place to deal with the abortion question. The experience of the past two decades should have established that quite clearly. The clearly ambiguous anti-abortion wording endorsed in the 1983 referendum gave rise to the Supreme Court decision nine years later. The latest amendment now seeks to reverse the court ruling. And it is doing so by tying the hands of the Oireachtas as legislators, and by restricting the courts in interpreting the current constitutional amendment, since the accompanying legislation is embedded in the Constitution. It means that future reforms in this area must necessarily involve constitutional change at a time when the public is showing less and less interest in its role as the sole legislative authority on the subject. It would, however, be quite wrong to say that many of those who oppose the proposed changes are any more tolerant of abortion, than those who advocate a Yes vote on Wednesday. This is not a black and white issue, with views neatly polarised between those who are pro-life and those who are pro-choice. The Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern, admitted this on BBC's Newsnight programme, when he acknowledged that the majority of the No campaigners do not favour liberal abortion rules. There is a better and simpler way of dealing with this matter. That involves legislation to give effect to the Supreme Court decision, with the Oireachtas setting strict conditions and narrowly defining the terms on which a right to termination could be secured, where a mother's life is at 'real and substantial risk' from suicide. It represents the least worst solution to a difficult dilemma facing the voters, and it can only be secured by voting No on Wednesday, thereby rejecting the Government's proposals. The voter turnout for this referendum may be low, because so many people are either confused by the arguments, or apathetic about the outcome, or simply fed up with what seems like a singular national obsession with the abortion question. Nevertheless, it is important that people should come out and vote, and accept responsibility for a democratic decision that is in their hands, and that will be decided by the choice they make. 
