abortion
{  
    March 16 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/abortion-set-to-dominate-campaigning-in-us-election-26122195.html }
By MARY DEJEVSKY in Washington     THE whole issue of abortion is set to divide the US nation once again  at a highly sensitive time and in a... THE whole issue of abortion is set to divide the US nation once again at a highly sensitive time and in a presidential election year. The issue is given added drama by the fact that a looming court case on the issue one again involves ``Jane Roe'' the woman whose name was immortalised in the Supreme Court judgment that gave US women the constitutional right to an abortion and who is now trying to get that landmark judgment reversed. In papers lodged with the US attorney-general yesterday Ms Roe, whose real name is Norma McCorvey, attached her name to a case already filed in New Jersey that aims to revisit the whole question of abortion rights. She now claims she was ``used and exploited'' by the womens' movement. According to her lawyer, Harold Cassidy, this is a rare - perhaps the only - example of a litigant in such a landmark case seeking to return to court many years later to say that the judgment was wrong and plead for it to be overturned. Ms McCorvey, who has avoided the limelight since revealing her identity several years ago, barely overcame her shyness to talk to reporters yesterday to explain her decision. Short and stocky, with her dark hair cropped and ever so slightly coloured with henna, she stumbled over her words and almost broke down as she read her prepared statement and sections of her affidavit. Her brief introduction encapsulated the original drama: ``My name is Norma McCorvey, and I reside in Dallas, Texas. I was the woman designated as `Jane Roe' as plaintiff in Roe v Wade, the US Supreme Court decision that legalised abortion in the United States. On January 22, 1973, the US Supreme Court declared that it was unconstitutional for my state to prohibit doctors from performing abortions.'' Flanked by two lawyers and two other litigants in the New Jersey case, however, she went on to complain that the case was essentially a fraud. ``As Jane Roe of Roe v Wade,'' she said, ``I was used and exploited in the women's movement and the Supreme Court of the United States.'' She had met her lawyers in the case, she said, only twice, the first time over pizza and plentiful beer. She had not understood the word ``abortion,'' which she associated only with war films in which pilots ``aborted'' their missions. It was only later when, still poor and homeless, she took jobs in abortion clinics, that she understood that ``abortion is the taking of a human life'' and a ``fundamental violation of the mother's interests.'' Ms McCorvey's change of heart on abortion rights became public several years ago when she first revealed her identity and it was a gift for the fervent anti-abortion lobby in the United States that has never been reconciled to the Roe v Wade judgment. The decision of ``Jane Roe'' to associate herself with the New Jersey case, however, brings the issue back into the public domain at a highly sensitive time. The religious right is already angling to have the Republican election nominee, George W. Bush, to name a running mate opposed to abortion and to promise that he will make an anti-abortion stance a ``litmus test'' for Supreme Court appointments. * Independent New Service. 
