abortion
{ Dearbhail McDonald 
    December 17 2010 04:47 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/dearbhail-mcdonald-profound-political-cowardice-gave-rise-to-abortion-muddle-26607291.html }
WHEN it appeared before the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) last year, the Government claimed there was a clear and bright blue line in our law that determined when a woman whose life was at risk could terminate her pregnancy. It was unfortunate it invoked the analogy of the bright blue line. This is the faint feature on a home pregnancy kit that deepens to confirm a pregnancy that may compel a woman into a mental or physical crisis. The analogy betrayed insensitivity to the plight of more than 143,000 women in Ireland who have travelled abroad for a termination. It was also an affront to the legal and medical reality in Ireland; to the inexcusable failure of successive governments to implement the infamous X case decision in 1992. There, in a case involving a 14-year-old girl who became pregnant as the result of a rape, the Supreme Court tried to square the intractable 'when-life-begins' circle with an equally protracted legal formula. It ruled that where there was a real and substantial risk to the life (as distinct from the health) of the expectant mother that can only be avoided by terminating her pregnancy, an abortion was permissible. Thus abortion in Ireland, albeit in very limited circumstances which includes the risk of suicide, became legal. But successive Governments refused, over the course of almost 20 years and despite a plethora of reports and divisive referenda, to give legal effect to the X ruling. It was a feat of legislative inertia that has angered pro-life and pro-choice advocates alike. It is one that has provoked despair from unelected, medically untrained judges who, from time to time, are cast in the unenviable role of licensing agents dispensing abortion permits. This assessment of risk should take place in private between a woman and her doctor during a medical consultation, not in the public arena of the Four Courts. But the Government failed to introduce comprehensive guidelines. This left doctors and the women they treated in an impossible situation facing criminal sanctions including life in prison; women such as Miss C, the Lithuanian woman recovering from a rare form of cancer who was forced to travel to England for a termination. It was this failure to lay down exact criteria by which doctors could assess the risk to life that led to the Government's partial defeat in Strasbourg yesterday. And it was this interminable uncertainty, generated by a lack of clear guidelines, that led Health Minister Mary Harney to finally concede that new laws on abortion where a woman's life is at risk might have to be introduced. It is pathetic that it has taken 19 years (27 if you include the initial 1983 abortion referendum) and the condemnation of an international court to bring us to the point where the Government finally acknowledges that legal clarity is essential. It has also caused havoc in other reproductive arenas and has spawned troubled offspring such as the frozen-embryo and stem-cell controversies. If, as the State claims, its stance on abortion/the right to life of the unborn is based on "profound moral values", why has it not had the courage to articulate and give legal effect to them? Crucially, the ECHR noted in its 89-page ruling, the Government had not explained the failure to implement Article 40.3.3 of the Constitution which gives equal regard to the life of expectant mother and her unborn baby, itself a legal and ethical oxymoron. The answer is simple: profound political cowardice. The Irish Family Planning Association (IFPA), which supported the three women in their legal action, yesterday described the ECHR's ruling as a landmark one. They are entitled to regard it as such. The ruling is an important milestone on the long road to reproductive autonomy for Irish women, many of whom face extreme hardship as they come to terms with pregnancies, planned and unplanned, and who need to access abortion services. But does the Government have much else to fear from the ECHR, which gave it a wide margin of appreciation and refused to trespass on the right of the Irish State to determine its own abortion laws? The court's majority claimed that there is an "undisputed consensus" amongst Council of Europe member states that abortion should be available on a broader basis than in Ireland. This consensus was challenged by several judges, including Ireland's representative on the court. Abortion services are available on demand in 30 signatory states, available on health and well-being grounds in 40 and available on well-being grounds alone in 35 countries, but that does not necessarily mean Ireland will follow suit. For pro-choice advocates, yesterday's ruling is another step towards a broader and safer legal abortion regime for Irish women. It is precisely that prospect that galvanises pro-lifers, including many members of the medical profession, who refuse to perform abortions on conscientious grounds. For all the uncertainty surrounding Ireland's legal stance, the divisive force of abortion politics is something we can count on. Irish Independent 
