abortion
{  
    July 24 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/women-need-accurate-information-from-both-sides-in-abortion-debate-26376083.html }
IF THE reports are correct then the practice of hectoring vulnerable women seeking pregnancy advice and forcing them to watch videos of late term abortions is truly immoral and unethical. Cruel tactics such as these have no part in the counsellor client relationship. These bodies must be investigated and appropriate legal measures put in place to prevent such rogue agencies from operating. Fear is not the plinth on which pregnancy-related decisions are made. However, the tactics of these agencies raises a wider issue, concerning the information that women seeking pregnancy counselling should receive, especially if they are contemplating abortion. It is only with accurate information that full and free consent can be given. This same principle applies to women contemplating abortion as much as it does to those having hip replacements. Yet, all too often women claim that they are given little information about the procedure or its possible complications. As one distraught person told me "Why was I not told it would be like this?" In deciding on the information to be provided sensitivity is the cornerstone. Clearly, the methods used by the agencies described in recent reports were grossly insensitive and in some the information, if reported accurately, was incorrect. For example, the claim that having an abortion would result in other children becoming murderers is patent nonsense. I know of no such research. Claims about breast cancer, infertility and suicide were exaggerated and/or overstated. It is correct that there have been several studies demonstrating an association between suicide rates and abortion rates and also with self harm. However, association does not necessarily mean that one causes the other, although that may be the connection. Alternative explanations also present themselves and it is possible that depression or impulsivity, themselves associated with both abortion seeking and with self harm or suicide, may be the link. The position with regard to breast cancer is more complex and uncertain. Of 38 studies, 29 have found an association although there have been flaws such as small sample size in many. A recent authoritative review by Thorp published in a peer reviewed international journal 'Obstetrical and Gynaecological Review' concluded that the risk may only exist for those under the age of 20 and not having given birth previously. That review also recommended that the increased risk of prematurity associated with abortion should be included in information provided to women seeking abortion while the evidence for subsequent subfertility or ectopic pregnancy was lacking. Finally, he also recommended warning about the possibility of depression arising after the procedure. There is a growing evidence base for this in the past three years. The most recent study published in January 2006 by Fergusson is the most interesting, not least because the main author is himself pro-choice and describes himself as "an atheist and a rationalist". He admits that he expected that prior mental health problems would determine post-abortion trauma. Yet, in this 25-year follow-up of 800 people in New Zealand the results were surprising. He found that those who had abortions were at significantly greater risk of depression and other mental health disorders than those who did not, even when confounders such as prior history were controlled. He concluded " . . . it is difficult to disregard the real possibility that abortion amongst young women is associated with increased risks of mental health problems." He also criticised those who adhere to the idea that abortion was not associated with emotional problems based as they were on "a relatively small number of studies which had one or more limitations - it appears to disregard the findings of a number of studies that claimed to show negative effects for abortion." Other similar studies with large samples and controlling for prior history have been published from the United States and from Norway. It is notable that there have been several successful law suits in the US and Australia arguing that insufficient information was provided pre-operatively and that the decision would have been different had this been provided. ONE judge ruled that there need not be certainty concerning the risk, just the possibility. Unless the agencies involved in pregnancy counselling, whether pro-choice or pro-life, professionally provide accurate information about the potential risks as well as the myths then women will be the losers and lawyers the beneficiaries. Professor Patricia Casey is Professor of Psychiatry at University College Dublin and Consultant Psychiatrist in the Mater Hospital, Dublin. 
