abortion
{ Holly Watt 
    October 08 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/europe/uk-doctors-can-carry-out-gender-based-abortions-in-certain-cases-29641767.html }
Doctors in the UK have been informed that they can carry out sex-selective abortions in certain circumstances, the Director of Public Prosecutions has disclosed. Guidance issued by The British Medical Association (BMA) advised doctors that "there may be circumstances in which termination of pregnancy on grounds of fetal sex would be lawful". The disclosure is expected to spark fury among dozens of MPs who have criticised the medical establishment for seeking to redefine abortion laws. Keir Starmer, the Director of Public Prosecutions, published a detailed memorandum explaining the controversial decision by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) not to prosecute two doctors who agreed to arrange illegal abortions based on the sex of an unborn baby. Mr Starmer warns that current guidance for doctors needs to be urgently updated amid widespread concern over practices in clinics which do not appear to fall foul of the letter of the law. The two doctors were exposed after being secretly filmed offering to abort baby girls. Undercover footage shows a doctor in Manchester offering to terminate a foetus because of its gender. The CPS decided it would not be in "the public interest" to prosecute the two doctors. It has now emerged that the BMA issued guidance about sex-selective abortion. It stated: "It is normally unethical to terminate a pregnancy on the grounds of fetal sex alone. "The pregnant woman's views about the effect of the sex of the foetus on her situation and on her existing children should nevertheless be carefully considered. "In some circumstances doctors may come to the conclusion that the effects are so severe as to provide legal and ethical justification for a termination," concludes the guidance. Mr Starmer relied on the BMA guidance for his decision. He said: "The law does not, in terms, expressly prohibit gender-specific abortions; rather it prohibits any abortion carried out without two medical practitioners having formed a view, in good faith, that the health risks of continuing with a pregnancy outweigh those of termination." LEGISLATION The Director of Public Prosecutions has written to the attorney general raising questions about the application of abortion laws in Britain. Under the current legislation, two doctors must sign off every abortion. However, Mr Starmer notes that the current paperwork means "that an abortion can be performed without either medical practitioner having actual direct contact with the woman requesting an abortion". After the 'Telegraph' investigation, the Care Quality Commission carried out a series of inspections at abortion clinics. The inspections found that the practice of "pre-signing" abortion forms was widespread. (© Daily Telegraph, London) Irish Independent 
