abortion
{  
    October 11 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/lack-of-honesty-in-abortion-talk-26070823.html }
Sir - Bruce Arnold recently stated: "We have the convenience of a neighbour more honest about this issue (ie abortion) than we are." Is it more honest to have abortion freely available in practice, while in law it is subject to an apparently rigid set of required conditions? And as Mr Arnold persistently ignores the fundamental fact that abortion kills a human being and therefore violates the right to life the basic human right is he himself being honest about abortion? Mr Arnold makes the confident forecast that an abortion regime comparable to that in Britain will never be introduced here. However, he ignores facts which show the danger that this will happen, such as the degree of support for abortion in the main Irish media; the prevalence of abortion internationally; and the fact that the recent annual conference of one of our main political parties adopted a policy of abortion on demand. Mr Arnold states that a ban on abortion will not stem the tide of women travelling to England and elsewhere to have abortions. However, I believe that respect for the sanctity of human life ought to be a core value of every society. Constitutional affirmation of the sanctity of life in relation to unborn human beings would help to create a social atmosphere that would be unfavourable to abortion and thereby help to reduce its incidence. Dominic Greer, Marino, Dublin 3 * Sir - Ireland has the lowest maternal mortality rate in the world. The claim that legalising abortion is necessary to save the lives of women is untenable. Whatever medical procedures have been used in difficult cases are still legal even if they end in the death of the baby. The safeguards in the proposed referendum and legislation are not reassuring. A GP not opposed to abortion and presented with a patient who wants an abortion can, at her request, refer her to an obstetrician who favours abortion. One such obstetrician is on record as saying that he favours abortion for women who do not want to have a baby. Further, the Government will continue to fund abortion counselling here for women to go abroad for abortion. Do the Taoiseach and his colleagues not realise that the proposed legislation and referendum will lead inevitably to abortion on demand? If an obstetrician is predisposed to terminate the life of a baby, he will be unlikely to be concerned about observing the letter of the law. The definition of abortion in the proposed Bill that abortion is the intentional destruction of human life after implantation in the womb of a woman is factually incorrect. Life begins at fertilisation. This definition is intended to legalise the various abortifacients, the IUD and the morning after pill. There is no concern among abortion advocates for the health and safety of young women in these matters. M Kennedy (Hon Sec), The Irish Family League * Sir - At their recent Ard Fheis the Labour Party duly expressed their horror at the atrocities in America last month. But then they went on to express once more their commitment to abortion. They failed, or rather refused, to see that both actions entail the direct, intentional killing of innocent human life, horrific for the victims in both cases. They failed, or refused, to see that at least some few people escaped from the Twin Towers whereas the baby in the womb has no means of escape whatever. They failed, or refused, to see that far more human beings are killed in one day in America by abortion than were killed in the Twin Towers on September 11. Of course, they used their well-known euphemisms of women's rights and pro-choice etc when talking about abortion to disguise what is really involved. Apparently, they are not aware that abortion harms mothers as well as babies and that half the babies aborted are little girls and therefore future mothers, potentially. R O'Connor, Lixnaw, Co Kerry 
