abortion
{ Patricia Redlich 
    October 21 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/most-irish-crisis-pregnancies-end-in-birth-not-abortion-26417733.html }
THE ground has shifted on abortion in the last 20 years in Ireland. 'The Irish Study of Sexual Health and Relationships', carried out by the ESRI and the Royal College of Surgeons, found that 36 per cent of us, or just over one in every three, still think that abortion is always wrong. But two out of three of us - 64 per cent to be precise - can now see reasons why a woman mig THE ground has shifted on abortion in the last 20 years in Ireland. 'The Irish Study of Sexual Health and Relationships', carried out by the ESRI and the Royal College of Surgeons, found that 36 per cent of us, or just over one in every three, still think that abortion is always wrong. But two out of three of us - 64 per cent to be precise - can now see reasons why a woman might make such a choice. We have become more humane. That doesn't mean we're laissez faire about abortion. Anything but. Of the 64 per cent who say they could understand how a woman might opt to end a crisis pregnancy, only 9 per cent said it would be right, whatever the circumstances. Doing the arithmetic, only around 4 out of 100 of our total population support the notion of abortion on demand. The rest of us believe that at the every least a woman should have some serious grounds for her decision. Perhaps even more importantly, 75 out of every 100 women who had an unplanned pregnancy under unsuitable circumstances went on to keep the baby. Another 9 out of that 100 miscarried or had a stillbirth. Just over 1 in 100 had the baby and gave it up for adoption. And only 15 out of 100 had an abortion. These figures did shift when the researchers looked at the age-group 25-34, where 20 out of 100 had an abortion. The vast majority of women don't make that choice. They have the baby. The details of this study came hot on the heels of the news that the Crisis Pregnancy Agency, a statutory body set up by the Government , is threatening to withdraw all financial subvention from Cura, the pregnancy advisory service run under the auspices of the Roman Catholic Church. The agency are making this decision because Cura refuse to toe the party line and distribute an official leaflet, entitled 'Positive Options', which discusses abortion as one of those options. When discussing crisis pregnancy advice, there is one stark and glaring reality: women haven't got much time. Certainly it's better than it used to be. Pregnancy kits give us the news a lot faster than waiting for a second missed period. Flights to England are easily available, and much cheaper. And information is no longer come by agonisingly through word of mouth, reluctant informants, inaccurate phone numbers, secrecy and fear. Information on abortion is now everywhere: check your telephone book, TV screen, radio ad, women's organisation, support group, or average GP. But yes, the time frame is still short for such a huge decision, panic invariably part of the pain. All else being equal, therefore, it would seem legitimate to suggest that crisis pregnancy counselling should be a one-stop shop. To suggest that, however, is decidedly missing the point on several fronts. Counselling is never value-free. There are cultural norms, the laws of the land, and personal conscience, all of which have a bearing on how a counsellor proceeds. Leave abortion aside and think paedophilia for a moment. It is culturally unacceptable, unlike in ancient Greece. It is against the law. And while reporting is not actually a legal requirement, many professional bodies have drawn up a voluntary code of practice, whereby counsellors are effectively obliged to report patients if paedophilia is a clear and present danger. You could not, in Ireland, be counselled to continue paedophile behaviour. That's an extreme example, I know. I'm just trying to make the point. Every counsellor has a moral and ethical framework, and no matter how gentle and understanding and non-judgmental and professional she may be, it shows. If a counselling service believes abortion is all right - painful, distressing, heart-breaking even, but basically all right - then it shows. The woman listening knows. In the Crisis Pregnancy Agency versus Cura dispute, therefore, it is not a question of value-free counselling versus dogma. It is a clash of world views. The other misconception which abounds has to do with the nature of someone seeking advice. We don't go to crisis pregnancy counselling in order to get a list of options: a 'Positive Options' leaflet picked up at any outlet would give us that. We go in order to have a debate with ourselves. Leave abortion aside again for a moment and think of a troubled relationship. We choose who we talk to about it, because we actually know in advance what response we're going to get. The girl friends will say ditch him, he's just selfish. The mother will say learn to deal with it, selfish men are par for the course, and he's so good to you in other ways. A counsellor will ask us to look at ourselves, see how our own behaviour is facilitating his. Men friends will say you're simply asking too much. His friends will say he's truly trying. The point is, when seeking advice we actually seek persuasion, added weight for one of the many voices rattling round in our heads. And very often what we want is someone to persuade us not to do something. Anger and anxiety urge us to kick him out. But love makes us want to learn wisdom and patience. This is particularly true when it comes to a crisis pregnancy. By definition it is unplanned: panic is par for the course, time is short, our wish that the problem would simply go away profound. Happily in this day and age, women have choices about where to go for help. And some women want to be told they can make it, in unequivocal terms. They don't choose Cura out of ignorance. They choose it out of need. They've touched base with a clear message, even if they still decide to do it differently. Isn't that all right? Can't taxpayers' money -+fund that, too? I think so. 
