abortion
{ By EILISH O'REGAN 
    July 18 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/plight-of-desperate-women-in-late-abortions-revealed-26114173.html }
THE ``desperation'' of Irish women who are three times  more likely to have late abortions than their British counterparts was revealed in a new report yesterday. The first detailed analysis of abortion figures based on records of British clinics shows that many Irish women had their terminations as late as 20 weeks or more, putting themselves at higher medical risk of complications. ``The women we see from Ireland are like the women from England, except they are more desperate,'' said Ann Furedi, spokeswoman for the British Pregnancy Advisory Service which provided the information on 42pc of all Irish abortions in the past three years. She said women from the Republic are more desperate because they need to raise the money for abortions as well as travel and accommodation in the UK forcing them to delay until the pregnancy is well advanced. Ms Furedi, who was in Dublin at a function yesterday to announce details of the Irish Family Planning Association's report, said: ``One woman recently was 23 weeks and two days pregnant and was right up against the legal limit. She explained how she had taken so long because she was trying to save the money but eventually had to borrow it. ``At that stage you are visibly pregnant and can feel the baby moving,'' said Ms Furedi. An abortion costs stg£300 and is £500 for those in later pregnancy. So far this year, the British service has carried out 1,012 abortions among Irish women and the overall rate is expected to mirror that of 1999 when more than 6,000 from the Republic terminated pregnancies. Irish family planning chief Tony O'Brien said 39.5pc of women did not avail of any counselling. Outside of the main cities non-directive counselling is only available from GPs and they are not legally obliged to provide it. Three quarters of government funding goes to agencies which do not provide abortion information. The report provided a breakdown of the abortion figures in counties such as Wicklow and Donegal where Independent TDs have been pressing for a referendum. Last year 89 women from Donegal and 152 from Wicklow had abortions with 155 from Kerry. ``Abortion is a daily reality in the constituencies of leading members of the Government and the independent TDs on which it relies,'' said Mr O'Brien. The age breakdown showed 53 girls under 16 years had abortions from 1997 to June this year. During the same period, 1,359 older teenagers had abortions and although most arrive with a relative some are alone. The bulk of women are in the 20-34 year age group. The organisations believed the Joint Oireachtas Committee on the Constitution, which has been holding hearings on abortion, has not heard the voices of women who have undergone the experience and members have been invited to visit a clinic in Britain. Committee chairman Brian Lenihan TD confirmed it received the invitation in recent days and it will be discussed at a private meeting of members today. 
