abortion
{ Eilish O'Regan 
    March 09 2018 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/abortion-referendum/gps-still-in-dark-about-proposals-for-abortion-law-36686487.html }
One in every 1,000 medical abortions can lead to excessive bleeding and a possible need for a blood transfusion, according to the UK's NHS. If the Eighth Amendment is repealed and medical abortion - where medication is taken to end a pregnancy and which has a good safety record - is allowed, at least 230 women a month could potentially seek this form of termination. This is based on the numbers of women from the Republic having abortions in the United Kingdom annually. A lack of training, resources, work pressures and legal risks may leave many GPs opting out of the service. A confidential survey of 497 GPs by the medical directory site GPBuddy.ie showed nearly seven in 10 said they would not become involved in providing medical abortions, 15.7pc said they would provide it, and 16pc were unsure. Some 58.5pc GPs replied they would support repeal of the Eighth Amendment. Health Minister Simon Harris appears to have generated concern among family doctors by announcing medical abortions in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy would be GP-led. No discussion on the proposal has taken place with GP organisations about the proposed measure which could follow if repeal of the the Eighth happens. In the UK, GPs do not directly provide the service which is carried out in an NHS abortion clinic. Diabetes According to the NHS, medical abortions using mifepristone are unsuitable for women with conditions such as high blood pressure, diabetes, high cholesterol or kidney disease. Women who smoke more than 20 cigarettes a day are also advised not to take mifepristone. A level of health screening will be needed by the GP in advance of a medical abortion. Draft legislation is expected to require women who avail of medical abortion to take the medication in the GP's surgery rather than leaving and taking it at home. Irish Independent 
