abortion
{ Kathy Donaghy 
    August 08 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/new-abortion-on-demand-campaign-gets-under-way-25970146.html }
A MAJOR new campaign to introduce abortion on demand in Ireland will begin today when the Irish Family Planning Association unveils plans to seek pre-election commitments from politicians on the issue. The IFPA says it is keeping the details of the campaign under wraps until this afternoon but a statement from the organisation said it would set out its 13-point policy position on abortion and unveil a series of measures which it anticipates will result in the provision of safe, legal abortion in Ireland. Chief among these will be a new legal initiative to challenge the current status quo as well as a political advocacy campaign aimed at securing pre-election commitments from all of the political parties on abortion. The IFPA says the campaign to legalise abortion will have an international dimension. According to IFPA chair Catherine Forde, last year more than 6,000 Irish women travelled to England for abortion services. "Meanwhile our Government is prepared to go to a major UN committee and declare that no further action is planned on the issue of abortion following the defeat of the 2002 referendum. This complacency will be challenged by the IFPA's campaign," Ms Forde said. The campaign's spokesperson Ivana Bacik, Reid Professor of Criminal Law at Trinity College, Dublin will detail the IFPA's position and the campaign elements along with Ms Forde later today. However, the Pro-Life Campaign last night said it would "vigorously oppose any attempts by the IFPA to introduce abortion legislation" and claimed that the IFPA had "a record of ignoring the humanity of the unborn child and the adverse effects on women". Pro-Life Campaign spokeswoman Audrey Dillon said: "Those seeking an abortion regime in Ireland also have a tendency of engendering fear into the debate. The reality is that Ireland, without legal abortion, ranks among the safest in the world in which to be pregnant. "Our ethos of care for mother and baby is in stark contrast to countries like Britain, where abortion is legal up to birth in wide-ranging circumstances. "Rather than feeling pressured into introducing abortion legislation we should reflect on how other countries are slowly beginning to question how they have for too long denied the humanity of the unborn child and the emotional harm endured by many women following abortion. "It is an outrage that the Crisis Pregnancy Agency funds the IFPA, since it is manifestly a politically campaigning organisation," she added. Nobody from the Crisis Pregnancy Agency was available to comment on the IFPA campaign as, said the agency, its senior personnel are on holiday. The CPA describes itself as a planning and co-ordinating body established to formulate and implement a strategy to address the issue of crisis pregnancy. 
