abortion
{ By KEVIN MOORE 
    July 08 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/pro-lifers-press-for-new-abortion-referendum-26255401.html }
PLC says the vast majority of Government backbench TDs want a plebiscite on the issue THE influential Pro-Life Campaign, headed by Fianna Fáil Senator Des Hanafin, will be pressing for another abortion referendum when the Dáil resumes in October. The PLC says the vast majority of Government backbench TDs and the three Independents supporting the Coalition want an abortion referendum. It is demanding the national poll on the grounds that adequate legal protection to the unborn needs to be restored following the controversial Supreme Court X Case decision in 1992. A non-denominational single-issue group organised in every constituency, the PLC poses acute difficulties for Fianna Fáil, as many of its members belong to, or vote for, the party. John O'Reilly, PLC secretary and a veteran campaigner, told the Sunday Independent: ``The Fianna Fáil backbenchers are very much in favour of having a referendum.'' And he revealed that they had spoken to Independent TDs Harry Blaney, Thomas Gildea and Mildred Fox, all of whom support the Government. ``The three of them are very committed and they have told the Government that they want a decision on the holding of a referendum and they want it fixed in the autumn,'' Mr O'Reilly said. This political support in favour of a popular vote on the issue reflected the latest opinion poll carried out for the PLC by Irish Marketing Surveys, showing 67 per cent in favour. Mr O'Reilly added that this poll was taken as the All-Party Oireachtas Committee on the Constitution, which is considering the abortion issue, began its public hearings on May 2. The committee, chaired by Fianna Fáil TD and lawyer Brian Lenihan, has had 10 meetings so far. It will have the last of its public hearings next Wednesday. It was set up after the publication last year of a Green Paper on Abortion, prepared on behalf of the then Minister for Health, Brian Cowen, now Minister for Foreign Affairs. The discussion document put forward seven options, ranging from a total ban on abortion by way of referendum to a liberal abortion regime introduced by way of legislation. The Government decided that this was far too sensitive an issue for immediate or short-term action. So it was decided that an examination be carried out by the All-Party Committee. After the lengthy hearings, spread out over two months, the committee, which met the Christian churches, Jews and Muslims last Wednesday, has the unenviable task of trying to produce a coherent report. But the divergent views expressed by the medical, religious, political, lobby and other groups which appeared before the committee, may well be reflected among the members themselves. Apart from the five FF members on the 13-member committee, there are strong feelings within the wider Parliamentary Party and in constituency organisation throughout the country. After Dana Rosemary Scallon's Euro election win last year, Minister of State Éamon Ó Cuív said that it was clear that her Connacht/Ulster victory was, in part, a popular call for a referendum. And Sean Doherty TD, the former justice minister who represents Longford/Roscommon in the Dáil, put down a Dáil question demanding Government action without further delay. There is even friction within the PDs, according to Government sources, but, as a party which strongly favours individual conscience, it would be reluctant to impose a whip. This means that Bobby Molloy, Minister of State for Housing, would be free to support a referendum. And Tanaiste Mary Harney might, on balance, favour giving the people the final say. However, Des O'Malley, former PD Leader, and Liz O'Donnell, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, oppose holding a referendum, believing the Oireachtas should legislate on the X Case. Jackie Healy-Rae, the Independent South Kerry TD, who is supporting the Government, said that he was making no demands for a referendum as he did not see what purpose it would serve. The remit of the All-Party Committee to conduct hearings in public runs out on Wednesday, but its members will spend the next couple of months in private session working on the report. Mr Lenihan told the Sunday Independent that some aspects of the document were in preparation, such as the historical analysis, but said they had not yet started work on the conclusions. The committee, which is expected to report in October, received 105,000 submissions, 99 per cent of which are seeking a Referendum for the Green Paper's Option One, a total ban on abortion. The submissions were made up of over 90,000 petitions with signatures, while another 10,000 were made up of circular letters and there were 3,898 from individuals or organisations. In addition, over 80 per cent of county councils, 60 per cent of corporations and 76 per cent of urban councils have, with cross-party support, passed resolutions demanding a referendum to accept or reject abortion. The testimony from medical experts, including the three masters of the Dublin maternity hospitals, and from various churches was the most compelling aspect of the public hearings. What has emerged is that there is no appetite for abortion on demand in the country, particularly among mainstream groups such as Christian, Jews and members of the Islamic community. Sheikh Halawa, a Muslim cleric, was asked by Labour's Liz McManus at Wednesday's hearing about abortion in rare conditions, where a baby was born without a brain with only 24 hours to live. ``If the doctors say he will live only 24 hours, he still has the right to these 24 hours,'' he declared, adding: ``Islam considers the doctor who helps to carry out an abortion as a criminal.'' The doctors who appeared before the committee are reluctant to cede any control to legislators in the sensitive issue of medical guidelines as to what constitutes an abortion. Alison Begas, chief executive of the Well Woman Centre, told the committee that it was wrong for women to be forced into court to test the constitution on a personal decision such as abortion. 
