abortion
{  
    November 21 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/americas/us-takes-first-step-towards-abortion-ban-26226600.html }
JULIAN COMAN REPUBLICANS in the US Congress have launched an early attack on America's abortion laws by backing proposals to allow hospitals to opt out of performing terminations without incurring financial penalties. The proposals, being debated in Congress, look set to transform the law and have been welcomed by pro-life campaigners. They are being seen as the first major reward for the Christian conservatives, who played a vital role in restoring President George W Bush to the White House. Senior Democrats, who are in a minority in Congress, have attacked the plans, but the Republican-controlled Senate is likely to pass them before Christmas. Under present legislation, Roman Catholic hospitals can refuse to carry out abortions - but local authorities frequently withold funding from other hospitals and clinics that do not provide an abortion service. Anti-abortion activists argue that hospitals are being financially blackmailed. The proposals, included in a clause tacked on to a US$388bn spending bill, would allow all healthcare professionals and institutions to exercise the same "right of conscience" as Catholic doctors. Hospitals could also opt out of laws that oblige them to offer abortion counselling to women and abortion training to doctors. The increased Republican majority in the House of Representatives and the Senate after this month's elections means the measure is almost certain to be approved. The likely consequence will be a polarised healthcare system, divided between pro- and anti-abortion hospitals. Douglas Johnson, a spokesman for the National Right to Life Committee, said: "The proposal is a response to the orchestrated campaign to get local and state government agencies to coerce healthcare providers to participate in abortion." During his election campaign, Mr Bush pledged to ban partial-birth abortions - a procedure favoured for late-term terminations - and work to reduce the number of abortions overall. His opponent, Senator John Kerry, was attacked by conservative American bishops over his pro-abortion stance. Democrats have vowed to try and halt the bill through filibustering if necessary. Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa said: "They are catering to their right wing doing this. It doesn't make it right. This is the first step. I think it is time the women of America understand what's happening." Barbara Boxer, senator for California, said: "I'm willing to stand on my own two feet and slow this thing down. On a huge spending bill they're writing law and they're taking rights away from women." Meanwhile, a British GP has admitted arranging a termination for a healthy patient who was 31-and-a-half weeks pregnant at a Spanish clinic. Dr Saroj Adlakha said that she had taken her patient, an 18-year-old university student, to the Ginemedex clinic in Barcelona on the recommendation of the British Pregnancy Advisory Service (BPAS), the NHS-funded charity which is Britain's biggest abortion provider. She said she was also prepared to help arrange a similar abortion for an undercover journalist who claimed to have a daughter with a 29-week healthy pregnancy. 
