abortion
{ Katie Ascough 
    April 22 2018 08:18 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/we-must-vote-no-to-protect-our-children-36830716.html }
'I don't like either extreme," is a frequent comment from undecided voters. Thousands of Irish people, caught in the middle of a heated and polarising debate, are still deciding how to vote on May 25. After almost three months of travelling and talking to people in every county, this is why I believe we can and should vote No. First of all, it's important to state that we, in good conscience, can vote No. Ireland's abortion laws have already been changed. It is legal to terminate a pregnancy in Ireland to protect a mother's life (Act, 2013). We can vote No because, according to the World Health Organisation, Ireland is one of the safest countries in the world to be pregnant, even safer than the UK and US which both have wide-ranging abortion. Secondly, we should vote No because, unfortunately, our Government is proposing one of the most extreme abortion regimes in the world. Our Government is proposing abortion in any circumstance up to at least three months of pregnancy. They are also proposing abortion on undefined health grounds up to viability, in effect about 24 weeks. Britain's equivalent undefined health ground is responsible for 98pc of its 200,000 annual abortions. Unless we vote No, a child at 12 weeks, who has a beating heart, a fully formed face, arms and legs, fingers, toes, fingernails and hair, and can kick, stretch, yawn, and respond to touch, would have absolutely no protection under our laws. I saw what a child at this stage looks like when my 13-week brother was miscarried at home. I will never forget holding him in the palm of my hand and looking into his face. He had a perfectly formed body, even creases on his knuckles. After meeting him, I knew for certain that these defenceless children deserve their right to life. If this isn't enough to convince someone, or if they view me as an indoctrinated pro-lifer who is obsessed with fetuses, I would call on them to view an ultrasound of a baby at that age, and ask: can I allow myself to agree (either by voting Yes, or not voting) to the intentional and direct killing of thousands of these children, for any reason? One of the effects of the Government's extreme proposal is that our abortion rates would increase. It stands to reason that if abortion on demand were legalised and normalised, societal attitudes would also change. In Britain, the number of abortions rose sharply year on year after its legalisation. Many people fear that such a thing could happen here. That fear is legitimate. It is also important to remember that if our Eighth Amendment had been repealed several years ago, many people in our lives today would not exist. In the 1990s, the mother of someone I grew up with booked an abortion in the UK. Due to delays, she had time to have her 12-week scan and reconsider her appointment. Today, because of almost losing her son to abortion, that mother and her son are active No campaigners. He was not a potential life unworthy of rights, he was a human life full of potential. Another compelling reason to vote No is because of what abortion itself involves. The most common type of abortion in many countries is suction D&C. A suction machine rapidly tears the child apart, and a curette is used to scrape away any remaining pieces. Then, there are the abortions that Dr Peter Thompson, a witness at the Oireachtas Committee hearings, spoke about. The child is first paralysed by injection to stop them moving, then a second injection is administered to stop the heart from beating. These are some of the procedures we could expect to be routinely practised in our country if the Eighth Amendment was repealed. Ireland is not perfect. We can and must develop better ways to support women. At the same time, we should be proud that we are world leaders in safety for expectant mothers. Dr Mary Holohan, consultant obstetrician in the Rotunda Hospital, states that obstetricians have "full freedom" under existing law to treat pregnant women in order to save their lives and that suggesting otherwise is causing "unnecessary fears". I understand many people are put off by the two "extreme" sides. However, I would urge people to take five minutes to look at a baby in an ultrasound and understand what an abortion would do to that child. Then ask yourself if it is still "extreme" to vote No to ending the lives of thousands of children in some of the most inhumane ways, for any reason, on a daily basis. I hope you join me in voting No on May 25. Katie Ascough is a freelance journalist and campaigner with LoveBoth. She has a background in medicinal chemistry and is a former president of UCD Students' Union Sunday Independent 
