abortion
{  
    September 18 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/modern-science-means-we-can-no-longer-dodge-ethics-of-abortion-26260937.html }
The Green Paper lays out the facts but what we have to decide on now is the question of quality of life versus the right to life, says Patricia Redlich THE Government has published its Green Paper on abortion. It is an excellent document, drawn up by keen and sensitive and intelligent minds, which lays out the issue before us. It tells us the story, in succinct and simple chapter and verse. As a piece of recent social history, it makes compulsive reading. In very fair terms, it poses the question. Like a good judge, it lays out the arguments. Unlike Solomon, it makes no difficult decisions. For the Green Paper confines itself to facts. Whether or not Ireland should usher in abortion, however, is an ethical question. The great public service the Green Paper renders is that it makes that ethical question crystal clear. What we are really talking about is abortion as a choice, albeit a painful one. Legalised abortion was originally introduced with the stated objective of saving mothers' lives. That was 30 years ago in places like Great Britain. As the Green Paper points out, there is no medical evidence in today's Ireland to suggest that women are denied necessary medical treatment just because they are pregnant, even when it means that the foetus will perish. The barbarity of the notion that a mother must be left to die rather than damage an unborn child has no place in our modern world. The Medical Council's Ethical Guidelines make this quite clear: ``Should a child in utero suffer or lose its life as a side effect of standard medical treatment of the mother, this is not unethical''. Of course, there may be certain areas of ambiguity even in the medical field. The Green Paper does state that scientific literature notes situations where elective abortion was performed to protect the life of the mother. But it seems clear that if medical conditions were the only issue for debate, they could be dealt with. The reality is that we as a society are being asked to consciously legislate for abortion as a right, abortion on demand, however ring-fenced by counselling, expert opinion, or doctors' signatures. At the very least, we are being asked to legislate for abortion as a mopping-up exercise for social, psychological or economic distress. That's difficult. Modern science no longer allows us to dodge the issue. When that fertilised egg nestles safely into the womb, it's all there. A life has begun. The woman's body then becomes a place of safe-keeping. Contrary to what feminists traditionally argued, a pregnant woman's body is no longer entirely her own. It is also the sanctuary and only possible sanctuary for that new life. Decisions about abortion are no longer theological but a question of civilisation. Knowledge, in other words, brings with it the responsibility to make a moral decision. Do we believe that human life in such a defenceless state should be protected? Do we believe that pregnant women should be given whatever it takes to help them fulfil that task of nature? And at what point do we agree that the woman, who also has to live her life, should be allowed to withdraw that place of safe-keeping and so end that life? The problem is that despite what many say, there are no absolutes in this life. One of the ten commandments says `thou shalt not kill'. Yet no church condemns a soldier who kills during war. Murder is a crime on our statute books. Yet self-defence is an accepted plea to be exonerated from the tag of criminal. The law, like the Church, knows that morality lies in the particular. The difficulty with abortion is that in the overwhelming majority of cases, it is not a question of a woman defending her very life. It is a question of her saying that the life she would be left with, if remaining pregnant, is not one she feels she can face, for social, psychological or economic reasons. In attempting to draw up rules relating to abortion, therefore, we are being asked to pass judgment on the importance of issues which are not about life and death but rather questions relating to quality of life. If a woman truly believes she'll lose her marriage, her children will lose their father, and a whole family will be put at risk because of an unwanted pregnancy, is that a justifiable reason for ending a life? The other problem is the question of personal responsibility. We expect of individuals that they run their own lives. To what extent do we then allow them to do so, as they see fit. If we stop a woman having an abortion, do we then step in and take responsibility for the rest of her existence? How do we balance her role as a place of safe-keeping for a new life with the requirement that as an adult, she take care of herself? Our society can ultimately only be judged on its attitude to human life. All else is secondary. And our attitude is most obvious when life is at its most defenceless. Our level of civilisation will therefore be measured in terms of how we look after our very elderly, our very ill, our very young, and the foetus nestling unknowing in the womb.  Dealing with abortion, now largely stripped of the trappings of saving a mother's life, like all moral decisions, is a tough call. 
