abortion
{  
    January 09 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/outrage-after-baby-born-alive-as-late-abortion-fails-26198260.html }
A LATE abortion which went disastrously wrong has reignited a passionate debate in Germany, with doctors calling for a ban on abortions of foetuses more than 20 weeks old. The abortion law currently allows abortion on medical grounds at any point during a pregnancy, but the case of a baby which survived an abortion at 25 weeks has horrified the country. A German MP has brought charges against the doctors who tried and failed to abort the baby, and who are said to have left it for 10 hours after birth ``under observation'' but without giving it any help. They then decided in consultation with the parents that they would give it medical assistance. The baby, which weighed 1lb 8oz and was 12.5 inches long, is still alive in hospital, but was severely damaged at birth and has had several operations. The MP, Hubert Huppe, a member of Chancellor Kohl's Christian Democratic Union, believes the doctors failed in their duty to care for the child after it was born alive. He wants to establish whether it was permissible to abort the baby because it was thought to have Down's syndrome. The gynaecological clinic in Oldenburg says a 35-year-old woman who was 25 weeks' pregnant came to it last summer in a ``desperate psychological state'' after a doctor had said her baby had a genetic defect which would cause Down's syndrome. The clinic agreed to give her an abortion and induced the birth, but the baby's pulse and breathing failed to stop. A lawyer for the parents has accused the clinic of failing to warn them of the risk that the baby might survive, and is demanding compensation for the baby and parents. But the head of the clinic blamed the mother for delaying the diagnosis and said ``not the trace of an accusation can be made against us''. Hugo Gurdon writes: Abortion has opened a deep split among Republicans days before an important vote which could shape American conservatism both in this year's congressional campaign and in the 2000 presidential election. The chairman, Jim Nicholson, fearful of driving away women and the party's liberal wing, has taken the rare step of publicly attacking a proposal which would make opposition to partial birth abortion a litmus test for Republican candidates. The proposition, to be voted on next week at the Republican National Convention would ban financial and other support from any candidate who did not agree to support legislation outlawing the controversial abortion procedure.  (Daily Telegraph London) 
