abortion
{  
    March 02 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/abortions-to-hit-new-peak-as-20-a-day-make-uk-trip-26121226.html }
By EILISH O'REGAN Health Correspondent     ABORTION figures are on course to reach record levels as new figures show 20-women-a-day are now... ABORTION figures are on course to reach record levels as new figures show 20-women-a-day are now choosing to terminate their pregnancies in British clinics. The number of abortions carried out on Irish women for the first nine months of last year shows another increase reaching 4,621 compared to 4,473 for the same period in 1998. If the trend continues it means that, for the first time, more than 6,000 Irish women will officially have had abortions in one year. The biggest rise is among 20 to 34-year-olds . Commenting on the trend, Tony O'Brien, chief executive of the Irish Family Planning Association, said that although the overall figure is up, the rate of increase has slowed significantly. ``The rate of increase of 3.3pc to September 1999 is substantially down on the 11.65pc rise recorded for the same period in 1998. We are now getting a truer picture of the level of abortions with more prepared to give their address. But the statistics are incomplete because others are still hiding their identity,'' he said.  LACK OF SUPPORT He predicted the final total for 1999 will be between 6,080 and 6,145, compared to the full year figure of 5,891 for 1998. Since pregnancy counselling, which includes names and addresses of abortion clinics, was legalised in 1995, there has been a big rise in women with crisis pregnancies seeking advice, he revealed. ``However, while counselling is good, other influences impact on a woman's decision to have an abortion. The factors identified in the mid 1990s as influencing women in this direction such as the lack of proper supports for lone parents have not improved and in some areas, such as the provision of childcare, have deteriorated.'' He was also critical of the gaps in family planning services to prevent pregnancy and said there is an urgent need to embark on an educational and awareness campaign. Half of those who come for counselling ask for the names and addresses of abortion clinics but it is unclear if they go ahead with the termination. The organisation has seen a huge increase in the numbers coming forward for counselling in the last two months and this could be due to people delaying seeking advice over the festive period rather than as a consequence of millennium celebrations. Abortion clinics in Britain have attributed a rise in abortions to excess drinking and celebrating over the holiday period. ``If there is a similar trend here we are likely to see the increase in the next two to three weeks,'' said Mr O'Brien. Pro Life groups have consistently blamed the legislation allowing the names and addresses of abortion clinics to be given to women in crisis pregnancies as contributing to the growing abortion level. The All Party Committee on the Constitution is currently considering submissions on what type of abortion regime will come into force here and a referendum has been promised by the government. 
