abortion
{  
    June 28 2019 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/still-travelling-for-an-abortion-38240838.html }
In 2018, 30 women from Sligo travelled to England or Wales to have an abortion, according to statistics published last week by the UK Department of Health. This is in line with 2017 figures where 29 women from Sligo were recorded as obtaining abortions in the UK. Commenting on these latest figures, a spokesperson for Sligo Action for Reproductive Rights Access (SARRA) said: "During 2018, while the debate surrounding the 8th amendment was at its height leading up to the overwhelming referendum result which removed the 8th amendment from our constitution, 30 women from Sligo needed to travel across the Irish sea for abortion services. "These figures do not account for those who withheld their address, or those who travelled to other European countries for abortion." The figures published last week in the UK Department of Health's annual report show that fewer Irish women travelled to UK for abortions overall, but the number of women purchasing abortion pills online increased by 13%. SARRA spokesperson, Deni O'Toole, said: "Unfortunately, the needs of these women are still not being met in their home county, despite the change in legislation. Sligo remains one of the counties with no local abortion services. "While these women may now travel for abortion services within the state instead of crossing to the UK, the fact remains that they still have to travel which adds unnecessary time delays, financial burden and stress. "That is not what the electorate were promised when they voted by a resounding majority to remove the 8th amendment and enable women to obtain abortions in a supportive health service." SARRA group members believe that the government have a mandate from the Sligo electorate, where 61.4% of voters voted to repeal the 8th amendment, to ensure the HSE provides abortion services within the locality. Nationally, just over 300 general practitioners have signed up to provide the service with 10 out of 19 maternity units providing full abortion care. Sligo University Hospital maternity unit is not listed as a provider on the HSE's website. Ms. O'Toole added "Where people make the difficult decision to seek a termination of pregnancy, the government and Irish healthcare institutions must ensure equality of access to all citizens, regardless of their address, community or background. "We would urge local health care providers to sign up to the My Options helpline to provide this service and to support women in our region. "The current system inflicts unnecessary hardship on close to 30 women annually, at a time where they need care and compassion. "The numbers don't lie - at a minimum, 30 Sligo women will be let down by local health service providers in the coming year, and the HSE must take action." Sligo Champion 
