abortion
{ Eilis O'Hanlon 
    April 30 2017 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/fanatics-on-both-sides-need-to-lose-so-that-the-rest-of-us-can-have-some-peace-35666816.html }
If the last seven days have been anything to go by, emigration may be the only escape.  Joe Duffy already sounded bored as he fielded calls on Liveline about the Citizens' Assembly's recommendations on abortion, with callers outraged that certain counties had gone unrepresented, or demanding to know whether members had read all the thousands of submissions in full and why their opinions should be given any weight if they hadn't. Let's be generous. The critics had a point. Despite assurances that delegates would come with no baggage, a majority eventually endorsed quite radical positions on abortion, including that it should be permitted for "socio economic reasons". They might as well have gone the whole hog and added "because you're worth it" to the list.  All previous polls suggest that abortion on demand is favoured by only a small minority of Irish people. Any polling organisation worth its salt would be double-checking its methodology if it came up with the same result as the Citizens' Assembly. Ultimately, though, it doesn't matter a hoot.  As delegates on air pointed out to Joe, this was merely a snapshot of the opinions of 99 people, and whatever was decided would be put to the people in a referendum. If they didn't like it, they were free to reject it in its entirety after due consideration. If anything, though, that merely added to the deep existential weariness at the prospect of months of campaigning ahead.  Consider the row all week over religious influence on the new National Maternity Hospital. Multiply that by a factor of a thousand for a small flavour of what the abortion referendum will be like.  The one consolation is that the phoney war is finally over. The real battle is about to get under way - assuming, that is, that the government can agree on a form of words to allow a vote on repealing the Eighth Amendment to go ahead. The Cabinet surely expected that the Citizens' Assembly would restrict its recommendations to legalising abortion in the case of rape, incest and fatal foetal abnormality, which could then be put to the people without ministers having to take personal responsibility.  Instead they now have to decide what they should have decided all along, which is what question to ask the people and what legislation to put in place in advance.  A referendum certainly cannot happen without legislation, because asking people to vote for the unknown is a recipe for defeat, and then we're back to square one. Worse, we're back to square 1983.  The Dail, unfortunately, has failed for decades to reach agreement on what to do about abortion, and both main parties remain divided on the issue at every level, so naturally a committee has now been established to buy  more time.  Couldn't this committee have been doing the groundwork already? Barring the Citizens Assembly concluding that everything was hunky dory, there was always going to be a referendum.  Rightly so. No woman of childbearing age in Ireland has ever had a chance to vote on the laws that rule her pregnancy. This is a question which each generation needs to answer for itself, preferably  through its elected representatives, free of Constitutional challenge.  What we really want this time is for a definitive answer, so that we can all just stop - talking - about - abortion. It's not good for our mental or political health as a nation, and this debate looks set to be more bitter and intense than ever.  Pro choice groups have been in permanent campaign mode for most of the lives of those involved. They have faced many disappointments and defeats, but always got back up again to fight another day.  Should they lose this battle, then that's what they will do again. There'll be more demos, more Repeal The Eighth T-shirts, more Prime Time debates and Dail amendments to keep the flame of a woman's right to choose alive.  Should the pro life side lose the referendum, they will fight on too; for each side, it's a matter of principle. But it's unlikely that the country, having once voted for a more liberal abortion regime, would revert to a stricter regime down the line, which means that pro lifers are facing an existential struggle for their continued existence as a credible movement.  The pro choice side only has to get lucky once to knock the wind entirely out of their sails. That's why opponents of abortion will fight the coming referendum very hard, probably in a way that their adversaries will consider dirty. Minister for Social Protection Leo Varadkar can call all he wants for the debate to be "conducted in a manner respectful of different points of view", but that just ain't gonna happen. Irish Catholic editor Michael Kelly is already warning that "the Church will have a responsibility to mount a vigorous campaign against abortion", adding "anything less would be an act of cowardice". Consider that word "vigorous" fair warning.  Nor is there any point crying foul about it. Anyone who genuinely considers termination of the unborn to be tantamount to murder has a moral obligation to resist it with every available weapon.  But these are issues which we have failed repeatedly to settle, either through moral argument or scientific inquiry, the reason being that pro lifers and pro choicers are both right. They represent different aspects of the truth, but the truth is not some indivisible entity, it can be broken down into an infinite number of other truths.  In that regard, the row over the National Maternity Hospital is a microcosm of the abortion debate. It's not a binary either/or choice; Rhona Mahony and Peter Boylan are also both right, in their respective ways. One argument is more pragmatic; the other more idealistic. Both, though, are merely trying to do the right thing in a flawed system, which is why the only solution is for politics to step in and exercise its authority. Politics is about picking a side. It doesn't mean that the other side is wrong, simply that decisions must be made, either about the right way to run a hospital or the right balance between the life of a child and the life of a mother.  The Eighth Amendment got us to this mess because it's a fudge. It pretends that choices do not have to be made, and ultimately there is always a trade-off between the rights of mothers and babies; and if science and morality cannot make that decision, then the only remaining option is to let it be decided by a head count.  It's a crude mechanism, but democracy was never intended to be a perfect panacea, just the least worst of all possible options.  Either way, Ireland needs to move on from this quarrel, as most other countries have, and the only possible way of doing that is by dismantling the Eighth Amendment. It has not brought peace or closure in more than 30 years. It's not about to start bringing the country together now. A reasonable compromise might. That means liberalised abortion laws to allow humane relief for women with crisis pregnancies, together with proper checks and balances to stop extremist nonsense such as demands for near full-term abortions and an unrestricted right to choose abortion for any reason.  Fanatics on both sides of the argument need to lose so that the centre can hold. After which a period of silence from all concerned would be greatly appreciated.  Sunday Independent 
