abortion
{  
    March 02 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/pro-life-call-for-a-yes-vote-27113808.html }
Spokesperson  for the group, Ms Cora Sherlock, suggested that, a yes vote was vital because, in effect, the Supreme Court had legalised abortion in Ireland in 1992She went on: Only the medical professions resistance prevents abortion in Irish hospitals. A yes Spokesperson for the group, Ms Cora Sherlock, suggested that, a yes vote was vital because, in effect, the Supreme Court had legalised abortion in Ireland in 1992 She went on: ‘Only the medical profession’s resistance prevents abortion in Irish hospitals. ‘A yes vote in the referendum will restore legal protection to the unborn, while guaranteeing all necessary medical treatment for women in pregnancy.’ Ms Sherlock went on to suggest that it is misleading for advocates of legalised abortion on demand to claim the proposal will endanger women’s lives. ‘The proposal recognises that abortion is not an appropriate response to suicidal feelings. At the recent Dáil hearings on abortion, the medical evidence showed that abortion itself posed a greater threat of suicide.’ The Pro-Life campaign spokeswoman suggested that the only alternative to clarifying the law regarding the right to life is to legislate for abortion on demand. ‘In Britain,’ she went on, ‘abortion is legal, formally on health grounds, but in practice, allows for abortion up to 24 weeks for any reason, and up to birth where the child has a disability. ‘The Labour Party supports legislation in line with the 1992 Supreme Court decision. In reality this amounts to abortion on demand without time limits, right up to birth. Sadly the Fine Gael Party also supports such legislation. ‘In recent weeks some concerns have been raised about the fact that the proposed referendum does not explicitly address the area of human embryo experimentation. The proposal defines abortion for the purposes of the criminal law but does not redefine when human life begins. ‘We are satisfied that it does not subtract from any existing protections enjoyed by the human embryo prior to implantation and ensures that the Dáil has power to enact legislation to protect unborn life from embryo experimentation.’ ‘We urge everyone to Vote Yes on March 6 to protect unborn children and their mothers.’ 
