abortion
{ Emma Nolan 
    July 08 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/i-was-an-accident-but-im-so-glad-i-was-born-26442642.html }
ACCIDENTS happen to the most careful people. One happened to my parents. Theirs was a 'shotgun wedding' and, two months later, I was born. Imagine if they had decided they weren't ready. I can't imagine a world without me. Getting pregnant doesn't have to mean the end of the world. There are so many options no matter how bad your circumstances. There is always a way without re ACCIDENTS happen to the most careful people. One happened to my parents. Theirs was a 'shotgun wedding' and, two months later, I was born. Imagine if they had decided they weren't ready. I can't imagine a world without me. Getting pregnant doesn't have to mean the end of the world. There are so many options no matter how bad your circumstances. There is always a way without resorting to abortion. If a certain five women had chosen abortion over adoption, I wouldn't have six of my cousins who are all adopted. My aunts and uncles wouldn't have had six beautiful children, who are now six beautiful adults. A friend of mine got pregnant when she was 25. At the time, she was a bit of a party girl. She thought her life was over. There was no boyfriend, she still lived at home and she had just started a new job. So she contemplated doing a runner to London to have an abortion. But with a bit of persuasion from friends (me) and family she decided to go through with the pregnancy. She thanks God every day that she did. It's probably the best thing that has ever happened to her. She's happier than ever, she has the unconditional love of her baby and she has managed to keep her career going. She has a lot of support from her work and family and they have turned what seemed like a devastating situation into something great. I think more can be done to help women like her. Not everyone has a mother who will stay home and mind the child or a boss who is compassionate towards a working mother. There are thousands of professional women aged between 20 and 35 going to Britain each year because they are in the same situation and choose the abortion option. It's not that they don't want the child; it's that they think it's not a viable option. No one wants to give up what they love doing. There should be far more support from the Government and society for women in this situation. They shouldn't have to feel that they can't have the baby because of work, financial or social pressures. One of the main pressures is finding reasonably priced child care - a lot of women pay out a hefty chunk of their wages for this service and, a lot of the time, it's just not possible when mortgage/rent and bills have to be paid too. Child-care facilities should be more readily available in workplaces and colleges free of charge or, at least, not at extortionate prices. Having a child should in no way affect your career. It would be easier for everyone if women reverted to the way they were 50 years ago, happy housewives, but that just isn't going to happen. Women want to work, they like to work and they have the right to do so, baby and all. It's time the Government and society accommodate that. Abortion should never have to be the answer. Every human deserves the right to life. Is an unborn child less human than you or me? Accidents do happen but there should be more education about contraception to lessen the likelihood of these accidents. When it comes to the Irish government, it's "little done, more to do" in terms of educating woman about the options open to them and dissuading them from having an abortion. It set up the Crisis Pregnancy Agency (CPA) for this purpose, but it has yet to do anything publicly to 'If a certain five women had chosen abortion over adoption, I wouldn't have six of my cousins who are all adopted. My aunts and uncles wouldn't have six beautiful children, who are now adults' discourage abortion. As part of its advice for crisis pregnancies it actually gives abortion as one of the "Positive Options". I thought as a nation we were against abortion. For a democratic government, it sure isn't acting like one. Last December, Austria, Italy, Germany, Poland, Slovakia and Malta got together to oppose the use of European taxpayers' money for destructive human embryonic research. The Irish government refused to join them. The Silent No More Awareness Campaign was set up by women who have had abortions and who want people to know of the regret they feel for having had them. They want to make abortion unthinkable and persuade society that women deserve better. We should have women like these working for the Crisis Pregnancy Agency so they can give advice to those who are contemplating abortion. Offering social support is the most important factor in ensuring a better psychological outcome for women with crisis pregnancies. They should never have to think abortion is the only option. The Government should shape up and look after these women and the lives of unborn Irish children. 
