abortion
{ Nicole Winfield and Philip Pullella 
    October 11 2018 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/abortion-like-hiring-hitman-to-take-out-a-life-says-francis-37407080.html }
Pope Francis has compared abortion to hiring a hitman to "take out a human life to solve a problem". He made the comments in an address to tens of thousands of people gathered in  St Peter's Square at the Vatican for his weekly general audience. The Pope said some people justify abortion as respecting others' rights.  But he asked: "How can an act that suppresses innocent and defenceless life as it blossoms be therapeutic, civil or simply human?"  He asked if it was fair "to take out a human life" to solve a problem. "Is it fair to hire a hitman to solve a problem? It is not fair. We cannot take out a human being, even if it is small," he said.  In his off-the-cuff comments, he denounced what he called the contradiction of allowing "the suppression of human life in the mother's womb in the name of safeguarding other rights". "I ask you: 'Is it right to 'take out' a human life to solve a problem? What do you think? Is it right? Is it right or not?" he said in unprepared remarks. Many in the crowd shouted "No." It was the second time within recent months that Pope Francis has expressed the Church's longstanding opposition to abortion in violent, stark terms.  In June, he denounced how some couples resort to pre-natal testing to see if their unborn babies have malformations and then choose to have an abortion, which he said was the "white glove" equivalent of the Nazi-era eugenics programme.  Francis has framed both abortion and euthanasia as part of what he calls today's "throwaway culture" where the sick, the poor, the elderly and the unborn are considered unworthy of protection and dignity by a society that prizes instead individual prowess and success.  Official Church teaching opposing abortion is absolute, providing for no exceptions.  However, the Pope has acknowledged that women sometimes are driven by circumstance to abortion and he has extended the ability of ordinary priests to absolve them of the sin of abortion if they repent.  His comments came during a three-week meeting of  bishops from around the world on young people, where sexuality, including premarital  sex, is among the topics of  discussion.  Catholic teaching on abortion has been in the headlines lately, including during the divisive confirmation process of US Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh, a Jesuit-educated Catholic whose vote could overturn legalised abortion in the US.  The pontiff's comments are sure to be welcomed by conservative Catholics who have accused the pontiff of not speaking out enough on "cultural war" issues. Shortly after becoming Pope in March 2013, Francis appeared to downplay the importance of "cultural war" issues such as abortion, contraception and gay marriage, saying in an interview the Church had become "obsessed" with them. "It is not necessary to talk about these issues all the time," he said, adding the Church's stand on them was clear but it also had to address social issues such as poverty, injustice and immigration.  Irish Independent 
