abortion
{ Liam Fitzgerald 
    February 12 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/all-abortions-in-suckler-cows-must-be-investigated-to-find-a-cause-26058271.html }
OBSERVATIONS for abortions should be part of the normal daily herding of  spring-calving cows. The detection of blood stains, slimes or portions of afterbirth on a cow should be followed up by a search for a foetus which will confirm the occurrence of abortion. It is vital that all cases of abortions are investigated to establish the cause. In the case of an abortion, consult your vet for advice, isolate the cow from the herd and preserve the foetus in a leak-proof plastic bag for examination by your vet or Regional Veterinary Laboratory. Thoroughly disinfect the area where the abortion occurred and place a disinfectant footbath at the entrance to the isolation pen. Farmers have an obligation to report abortions to the local District Veterinary Office. Causes There are several causes of abortion, including bacteria (brucella, leptospira, salmonella, etc), viruses (BVD & IBR), fungi and moulds, injury and other miscellaneous causes. Do not assume that an isolated premature calving is due to "a hurt." Your vet should be consulted in all cases. Where infection occurs in a "clean" herd the results can be disastrous if prompt action is not taken. Brucellosis Abortions normally occur in the 5th to 7th month of pregnancy or at full term where there could be a dead or weak calf born that dies after a few hours. Infected cows tend to hold the afterbirth. Within the herd, the disease is spread by contact with fluid discharges, foetus or afterbirth of an infected cow. Between herds the most common method of spread is the purchase of an infected animal; hence the importance of buying pre-movement tested animals. Leptospirosis There are indications that leptospirosis is the most common cause of abortions. Recent surveys show that 70pc to 90pc of dairy herds test positive for leptospirosis. The incidence may be less in suckler herds but is also likely to be very common. Most abortions occur in the last third of pregnancy. Blood sampling of an aborted cow is probably the most reliable means of diagnosis. Infected cows shed large amounts of leptospira organisms in their urine and these can get on to other animals or humans through urine splashes (especially in milking parlours). Leptospira also have the capacity to penetrate the eye and infect humans in this way. Leptospirosis usually gets into a herd through the purchase of infected animals so maintaining closed herds is a good control method. Once the disease is confirmed the herd should be treated with a large dose of dishydrostreptomycin which may prevent further abortions and will help reduce the shedding of organisms. All pregnant cows can be vaccinated. Booster vaccinations should be given in the following years to all females and bulls over six months of age. All bought-in replacements should get dishydrostreptomycin and vaccination. Spring is recommended as the best time to be the annual vaccination. Occasionally, vaccination breakdowns have occurred and when this happens the booster vaccinations should be given at 6-month intervals. Once a herd vaccination programme is started, the herd loses its natural immunity and if vaccination is discontinued it becomes susceptible to infection. Humans It is a very uncomfortable disease in humans, showing up mainly as flu-like symptoms that re-occur at intervals. Care should be taken when handling cows at calving and especially discharges and foetuses from premature births. Wear long disposable gloves or rubber gloves that can be steeped in strong disinfectant. 
