abortion
{  
    February 27 2007 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/dealing-with-abortion-in-your-flock-26277923.html }
EVERY year in the run up to lambing time I get lots of queries regarding abortions on sheep farms. A certain percentage of abortions/ slipped lambs can be expected on a sheep farm every year. The problem is distinguishing whether the abortion is just one of those 'normal' ones or if it is the start of an abortion storm. As a general rule of thumb where the level of abortion is less than 2% this is considered to be within the level of 'normal' abortions that one should expect. Some experts believe that where a flock show a low level of abortion (i.e. less than 2%) that this is a positive development as it ensures some level of immunity against the aborting agents is being maintained in the flock. Once the level goes above this we are looking at a potential problem situation. So what are the causes of abortion? Broadly speaking we can divide these into three categories: 1) A certain percentage of ewes will loose their lambs each year due to physiological factors and injuries. These conditions are not contagious and there is no risk to surrounding ewes. 2) The next type of abortions are those associated with parasites / infections which will abort the affected ewes but will not spread from sheep to sheep. 3) The final type of abortions are those associated with organisms that are spread from sheep to sheep during/after the aborting process. Unfortunately when the first ewe aborts it will not be possible to identify if: 1) the abortion is just one of those 'normal' abortions within the 2% that we expect and 2) if it is being caused by an agent that will spread throughout the flock. This is where the management of the flock comes into play. Every single ewe that aborts should be treated as having the potential to infect the rest of the flock until proven otherwise. Therefore it is essential to have a plan in place to deal with this emergency. 12-step plan 1) Isolate the ewe immediately. 2) Spread hydrated lime where the ewe aborted and freshly bed the pen. 3) Implement bio security measures in the area where aborted ewes are being held to avoid infection being spread by foot or machinery. 4) Exercise extreme caution in handling the aborted ewe and aborted material. Wear disposable clothing /gloves. 5) Remove all aborted material and arrange with your vet to have the foetus and afterbirth tested in your regional veterinary laboratory. 6) Aborted material not being sent to the laboratory should be burned, buried or treated with copious amounts of lime. 7) Do not allow contact with wildlife and aborted material. 8) Do not reintroduce or mix ewes that have aborted with any other sheep until the cause of abortion has been established and you advised that it is safe to do so. 9) Continue to submit any aborted material (foetus & afterbirth) to the regional veterinary laboratory - even where previous samples do not return a result as it often takes five or six samples before a causal agent is found. 10) Discuss with your vet any benefit in taking blood samples from aborted ewes to aid in identification of the cause. 11) Once a cause has been identified take steps to confine/eliminate the problem but continue to examine any further cases as sometimes there may be number of different aborting agents at work. 12) Keep a close eye on the aborted ewes as some agents can make ewes very ill post abortion and swift veterinary intervention may be required. Establishing the cause of abortions is vital if steps are to be taken to avoid a repeat of the condition in subsequent years. In Ireland vaccines are available to help control toxoplasmosis and enzootic abortion, but these are only two of a large number of agents that can cause abortion. Treating all the sheep in the flock with long acting antibiotics in the face of an outbreak is very much a hit and miss affair as there is little evidence that it is of any benefit for most aborting agents (enzootic abortion being an exception). The main aborting agents are Toxoplasma, Chlamydia (enzootic), Listeria, Salmonella and campylobacter. Other causes such as tick borne infections etc may also cause abortions where naive sheep are introduced to tick infested areas. Think safety - the majority of abortions analysed in Irish laboratories are caused by toxoplasma which can be spread from sheep to humans. Pregnant women and people with compromised immune systems have no business in the lambing shed. 
