abortion
{ Gene Kerrigan 
    April 01 2018 08:10 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/gene-kerrigan/gene-kerrigan-sorry-but-that-decision-was-made-in-1983-36763035.html }
Most people who have reservations about repealing the Eighth Amendment recognise abortion as an issue of conscience. They recognise that others, people as serious and thoughtful as they are themselves, have different views. The "pro-life" marketing, however, is run by the tough guys, the sneering gladiators of point-and-shame Catholicism. And it is their peculiar history of pro-abortion-by-default that we consider here. Some of them have recently been caught out (let us put it as gently as possible) exaggerating the medical credentials of some of their foot-soldiers. It's to be expected. After all, exaggerating credentials and distorting facts are no big deal for people who believe they're saving the world from the devil. Some of the usual suspects have been touring the towns and cities, waving posters with garish medical photographs. But, we've been living with that kind of thing since 1983. However, there's an aspect to this that is seldom, if ever, mentioned. And that's the free ride that the sneering gladiators have had since 1992. Since that year, they've had the best of both worlds. They have fervently fought to protect the centre of their philosophy, the Eighth Amendment, banning abortion. They have with equal firmness of purpose accepted and, by their persistent silence endorsed, a set-up in which the right to abortion is protected. They have, by their machinations, ended up with a constitution that both bans abortion and protects Irish women's daily access to abortion. The one position they could never legitimately claim - though claim it they do - is that of "pro-life". And now, with this referendum, they - and the politicians who pander to them - are seeking to maintain that two-faced position. They want to Save the Eighth. What about the 13th and 14th? Why haven't they ever campaigned to have those removed? Why the silence? Look at the history of this hypocrisy. The "pro-life" gladiators who created the Eighth Amendment in 1983 spoke of turning Ireland into a "beacon" of Catholicism, that would "turn the tide in the western world". At first, the politicians stood back from the Eighth Amendment proposal. Then, a young Fine Gael woman, when asked about abortion, answered with honesty that, well, perhaps if a woman's life was in danger... The party promptly had a mental meltdown. The young woman's position was one that's now commonplace. But, as the sneering gladiators raised their fingers to point and shame, Fine Gael became terrified of being labelled the abortion party. To demonstrate their holiness, they hurriedly adopted the Eighth Amendment. Fianna Fail wasn't going to risk an accusation of being soft on abortion. Soon they too were all for creating beacons of Catholicism. The bishops weighed in, and that was that. In those days, if the bishops had said that everyone had to paint their faces blue on every second Thursday, it would have become law. The Eighth Amendment always was a thing of staggering arrogance. Abortion is a deeply personal matter. Women agonise, think deeply, before deciding one way or another, because it's something they have to live with. Yet, with the Eighth Amendment, a decision was made, at a time of maximum religious fervour, that would remove personal choice from every woman in the country, then and for generations to come. Regardless of her circumstances, regardless of the depth of her feelings on the matter, the decision has already been made for her by the followers of the long-dead Garret FitzGerald and Charlie Haughey. If it was a 47 year-old woman worried about her health, or a 14 year-old raped by her father, or a woman who knows her baby will die soon after birth, or a woman who for her own private reasons just didn't want to have a baby at that time - it didn't matter. One size fits all, the decision wasn't theirs to make. It had already been made, in the zeal, fear and vehemence of 1983. Inevitably, in 1991, the constitution got entangled in real life, with the X case. In line with the Eighth Amendment, the State got an injunction to stop a 14 year-old rape victim from going to England for an abortion, causing astonishment abroad and embarrassment at home. The following year, in one of the most bizarre developments in any country, at any time, two new Amendments were added to the constitution - the 13th and 14th. The first protected the right to travel for an abortion; the second protected the right to information on where you could get an abortion. Pop quiz: name one other country on the planet in which the constitution has been amended to protect and ensure the outsourcing of abortion to a neighbouring country? One of the remarkable things about those amendments was that there was hardly any debate about them. Most of the attention went to the 12th Amendment, voted on the same day, and which sought to accord with a Supreme Court decision.  What did the Catholic bishops say about the 13th and 14th? Hardly anything. It was clear, from the wording and context of the amendments, that they weren't about the right to travel to Cheltenham to cheer on the horses; or to make sure we could all go to the sale at Harrod's. It wasn't a right to travel - it was a right to travel for abortion. The Catholic bishops published a document pointing out that the 13th Amendment was being inserted "specifically for the purpose of obtaining an abortion". Then, in the full knowledge of this, the bishops copped out. They wrote of how stopping women travelling infringed personal liberty - and they were cool with a vote either way. The Pro-life Campaign took no position on the right to travel until the eve of the referendum. Then they said no to it. Since they hadn't campaigned against the right to travel, this last-minute gesture had the feel of an ass-covering exercise. Politicians spoke of their opposition to abortion in Ireland, and of travelling to have an abortion as a "fundamental right". In The Irish Times of October 9, 1992, Michael Finlan wrote of the reluctance of the Catholic gladiators to oppose the right to travel: "Doesn't it seem as though they're acquiescing in whatever activity the women engage in when they reach England? Just as long as it doesn't happen in holy Ireland, right?" That was what was going on then, it's still going on. Not one TD, and not one Institute of Catholic Gladiators, has campaigned to revoke, or limit, the right to travel for an abortion. They speak of the murder of children. They think a 14-year jail sentence for having an abortion is about right. Yet, they legally ensure thousands of Irish women can travel for an abortion. Pregnancy tests at the airport would be outrageous, they would cause embarrassment - and kill tourism - but that's the logic of the shift-abortion-to-England position. To make abortion illegal in Ireland, with draconian penalties; and yet to provide constitutional protection for the abortion trail to England, is an unmistakeable position. And it is not pro-life. And that's what the referendum has come down to.  Do we continue this hypocrisy, pretending we are anti-abortion when we really just shift the location? Do we revoke the 13th and 14th Amendments and arrest women at the airports? Or do we face reality, like the rest of the world? Sunday Independent 
