abortion
{  
    November 27 1997 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/court-ruling-on-abortion-case-delayed-26202799.html }
A HIGH Court decision on whether the pregnant rape victim at the centre of the abortion controversy can travel abroad for an abortion is not expected until tomorrow, it emerged yesterday. Two of the four legal teams representing various parties are understood to have to make submissions yet before Mr Justice Hugh Geoghegan in the High Court. The judge heard a second day of submissions yesterday including a lengthy submission from the Eastern Health Board. Although the case is being expedited as quickly as possible the delay now means it is almost certain that a final decision on the matter will not be made until early next week if the case goes to the Supreme Court. The girl will be 14 weeks pregnant next week. It is understood the unborn child is being represented at the proceedings at which certain sections of the Child Care Act, particularly those concerning the rights of parents and welfare of children, are being contested. LOW KEY The low key proceedings are being heard behind closed doors in an upstairs court room of the Four Courts with neither of the girl's parents, who want an order allowing the abortion overturned, present. The restrained atmosphere of the Four Courts however is in contrast to the increasingly bitter battle being fought by anti-abortion and pro-choice supporters on the streets. Last night TDs had to run the gauntlet of 400 angry pro-choice demonstrators. INFLAMED The inflamed rhetoric of the referendum debates returned as abortion supporters berated the Government for its failure to introduce abortion legislation, saying it demeaned women by the delay in legislating for the X case. Trinity Law Professor Ivan Bacik told the gathering that said the current lack of legislation meant that children's bodies are being fought over and used as political footballs. Aileen O' Carroll of the Dublin Abortion Rights Group declared that abortion is a human rights issue and ``every woman has the right to choose.'' CHANTING The chanting demonstrators who later marched to the GPO wielded placards saying ``Stop Exporting Abortion'' and ``Let Her Go.'' Meanwhile, Youth Defence yesterday placed posters in Dublin's city centre claiming the girl does not want an abortion. However, psychiatric reports have indicated she does want a termination. The poster asks for donations to help the girl financially and adds: ``Phone the Eastern Health Board or the Chairman of the EHB Roisin Shortall to demand accommodation for her family.'' 
