abortion
{  
    January 19 1998 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/world-news/uk-minister-wants-to-relax-abortion-laws-26199015.html }
BRITISH Health Secretary Frank Dobson wants to liberalise the abortion laws, to make it easier for women to terminate pregnancies early. He is keen to find a Labour MP to sponsor a Bill or amendment ending the requirement that two doctors certify that having a baby would damage the woman's health. His comments angered anti-abortion campaigners who said they would fight any attempt to have the law changed. Mr Dobson said he believed the existing law, introduced 30 years ago, could discourage women from seeking treatment in the first weeks of pregnancy because it was too restrictive. ``You could do things that make it easier to get an abortion early so that there would be fewer late-term abortions,'' he said. ``The biggest advantage would be for young girls who don't know what they're doing.'' In particular, the Health Secretary is in favour of removing the clause in the Abortion Act which permits terminations only if two doctors certify in good faith that a continuation of the pregnancy would be more damaging to the woman's health than an abortion. UK doctors are allowed to make this judgment on four grounds: risk to the mother's life; risk to her physical or mental health; risk to the physical or mental health of her existing children; or the likelihood that the baby would be born with a serious handicap. In practice, however, this clause is a formality and most women are given abortions on the grounds that their mental health would suffer. The Government would not introduce legislation itself on such an ethical issue and Mr Dobson stressed that he was expressing his personal views. ``The Government doesn't have a view,'' he said. Mr Dobson's comments infuriated ``pro-life'' campaigners. Ann Widdecombe, the former Home Office minister, vowed to do everything she could to thwart any liberalisation of the existing legislation. ``Frank Dobson is asking for abortion on demand. He is effectively saying that he does not count the unborn human being as a human at all,'' she said. ``At the moment there are criteria that have to be satisfied. If you can demand an abortion in the same way as you can get an aspirin for a headache, we are saying that the unborn child is intrinsically worthless.'' The most recent opinion poll, conducted by Gallup last year of 1,416 people, showed that only 26 per cent of those questioned believed abortion should be available on demand, and most wanted the existing law tightened. Prime Minister Tony Blair has made it clear that matters of individual moral conscience such as the abortion laws should be allowed a free vote.  (The Daily Telegraph) 
