abortion
{ EILISH O'REGAN 
    August 16 1999 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/abortion-issue-will-not-simply-go-away-26141316.html }
THERE MAY be a collective weariness in the country at the latest rumblings from independent TDs calling for an abortion referendum but yesterday's stark figures showing another disturbing increase in the numbers of Irish women terminating their pregnancies are enough to dampen any complacency. Health Minister, Brian Cowen, has tip-toed around the issue since he came into office. Faced with harsh criticism for his handling of matters such as public waiting lists he has delayed tackling the emotive problem of abortion amid fears it would generate yet more thunder. In the meantime the abortion rate has continued to rise. Between 1995 and 1998 the numbers of women from the Republic having abortions in Britain rose from 4,532 to 5,892. And figures for the first quarter of this year reveal they are continuing to spiral with over 200 teenagers among the statistics. While the threats from independent TDs about withdrawal of support from the government, unless there is a pledge for a referendum, create the usual wild speculation about the survival of the current administration the central issue is being largely ignored. The vast majority of women who are having abortions are in the twenties and the country has a serious problem of unwanted pregnancy. An expensive, government sponsored study, attempted to investigate the factors which contribute to crisis pregnancy and why women chose abortion. But the Department of Health bizarrely refused to publish its recommendations, referring them instead into the distant tunnel of the All Party Committee on the Constitution. Among the range of factors which contributed to unwanted pregnancy was the perceived reluctance of some doctors to prescribe contraception because of the woman's single status. Others spoke of a preference for attending dedicated family planning clinics for this aspect of their healthcare. The Irish Family Planning Association in its submission to the Green Paper on abortion, which is expected to be published shortly after much delay, has proposed making contraceptives available free to everyone under 25 years. Chief executive, Tony O'Brien said this would help promote a climate where young people would be encouraged and enabled to protect themselves. Whether or not the Department of Health agrees to this radical step, it is clear there must be a profound rethink of the way in which young people are given messages about sexual behaviour. The whole issue for instance about safe sex, so much to the fore in the late 1980s and early 1990s at the height of the HIV scare, has been put on the back-burner and last week we read about the growing numbers of young people who are contracting sexually transmitted disease. The question of whether pregnancy counselling which includes information on all options, including abortion which was legalised here in 1995 has actually contributed to the abortion figures is not yet clear. THE Pro-Life Campaign believes that it has. But this claim may be disputed by figures returned by agencies which receive government funding for the counselling showing the number of women who avail of the service is higher than those who choose abortion. Certainly, the amount of money given to the agencies involved in counselling which may or may not include abortion information is still low. The Irish Family Planning Association has received £101,000 this year to provide the counselling free of charge. It believes that more investment would allow it to open more centres than its present five and allow women from remote areas to attend.  One of the benefits of the counselling service is that it has encouraged more women to come for help earlier in their pregnancy and it has also led to more openness about their predicament with friends and family. 
