abortion
{  
    September 23 2018 05:30 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/willie-kealy-consulting-dr-google-wont-help-women-with-crisis-pregnancies-37344849.html }
It's called transference when you ascribe behaviour and motivation to others that might more accurately and more fairly be attributed to yourself. That is what the former taoiseach John Bruton was indulging in when he recently addressed a large group of 'pro-life' activists on the subject of the forthcoming legislation to give effect to the result of May's abortion referendum. The proposed legislation will go to the Cabinet this week and Dail approval will be sought on October 3 in time for abortion to be made available in this country in January (or whenever after that doctors and hospitals are able to offer the service).  Unfortunately those who campaigned for a No vote in the referendum seem unable to accept the result and feel they can fight the battle all over again by trying to pressurise Health Minister Simon Harris as he prepares legislation. Mr Bruton wants the legislation to do two things - allow doctors who have a conscientious objection to abortion to simply ignore the law; and publish a list of all doctors who are willing to provide abortion services. In the proposed legislation, those doctors who are not willing to offer the service themselves are obliged to make a referral to a medical professional who will. Removing that obligation should not have any impact on pregnant women and girls seeking an abortion, according to Mr Bruton, because "given the amount of information on the internet, or likely to be available there in the future... this transfer requirement is unnecessary". In other words, Mr Bruton recommends that a woman in the midst of a crisis pregnancy, for whatever reason, should consult 'Dr Google'! Mr Bruton went on to say he feared that "doctors who are known to oppose abortion will be targeted... by people wishing to catch them out and put them under threat of criminal prosecution because of their religious or human rights beliefs". Clearly the former taoiseach's concern in this regard comes from our years of experience of doctors being terrified to help distressed women patients for fear of 'pro-life' activists wishing to catch them out and put them under threat of criminal prosecution with a possible 14 years in jail. No doubt he called to mind the tragedy of Savita Halappanavar.  Dr Mary Favier, vice-president of the Irish College of General Practitioners, recalled those times last week, saying that until the referendum, the ban on abortion  had had a "serious chilling  effect" in medicine where practitioners could not talk about it and where it was "actively discouraged and criminalised". Mr Bruton's other suggestion, that there should be "an affirmative list of those [doctors] who have no conscientious objection [to performing abortions]", would lead in one direction only, one which we have seen in other countries, but especially in the US where anti-abortion activists besiege abortion clinics and physically attack vulnerable patients and medical personnel. Mr Bruton went on to display a brass neck when he complained that "the reaction of those who won the referendum was not always magnanimous or respectful of the pluralist nature of Irish society and Irish values", and he singled out Mr Harris  for failing to "display the balance and attentiveness that one would like to see in someone who will be deciding  on the detailed content of the Termination of Pregnancy Bill". Mr Bruton then sought to castigate the health minister for believing the result showed the Irish people are maturing into a non-judgemental, inclusive republic. "The minister's own speech was rather judgemental and not particularly tolerant of those who sincerely disagree with him," Mr Bruton said. Fortunately this is all water off the proverbial duck's back to Mr Harris. He knows that the people were fully informed on what kind of legislation would ensue if they voted to remove the constitutional ban on abortion, and they did it anyway.  "The people of Ireland spoke very clearly on this matter in May and they gave an instruction to myself and my colleagues in the Oireachtas to change the law and make sure we can care for women in our own country with compassion," the minister said. "That's exactly what we intend to do now." He showed his balance when rejecting Mr Bruton's proposal (which will now be Independent deputy Mattie McGrath's proposal) by also rejecting a call from Dr Peter Boylan, chairman of the Institute of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, to remove the requirement for a three- day 'cooling off' period, and from Solidarity-People Before Profit's Ruth Coppinger, to omit a "serious harm threat" in the case of those who wish to be excused abiding by the 12-week stipulation. So, John Bruton and his 'pro-life' friends need not now dress up the same campaign they fought in May as something more noble and high-minded now with guff about balance and tolerance and attentiveness to other points of view. And those 30 Fianna Fail Oireachtas members who were not only opposed to removing the constitutional ban on abortion, but didn't even want to have the referendum, should also take note.  Unless they want to stay stuck in the past with the hapless Mr Bruton. Sunday Independent 
