abortion
{ Eilis O'Hanlon 
    June 12 2016 01:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/comment/will-it-ever-be-possible-to-have-a-calm-mutually-respectful-abortion-debate-34793046.html }
At a time when we're supposed to be more free than ever to think what we want to think and say what we want to say, it ought to be easier to have opinions that go against the mainstream.  On the contrary, it's becoming harder, to the point now where many choose to self-censor and stay silent rather than face the opprobrium that would descend on them if they dared to admit they don't support same-sex marriage, for instance, or don't think that women should have the automatic right to an abortion.  It's a toss-up as to which of those is the greater heresy these days. It depends which one is most exercising the minds of the virtue-signallers and social-justice warriors who dominate public debate around ethical issues,  especially on social media, where admitting to having so-called fam-ily values is akin to announcing that you sometimes yearn for a return of the Third Reich. Currently it's abortion. To be clear, I'm a common or garden pro-choicer but, as the old saying goes, some of my best friends are social conservatives. I've tried hating them, like every good progressive should, but I just can't seem to do it. Sorry. We simply happen to have a difference of opinion about the matter. That ought to be possible without the outbreak of World War Three.  Increasingly, that seems to be asking too much in the new McCarthyite climate, where "are you now or have you ever been a pro-lifer?" is used as a test to filter out the righteous from the unrighteous.  Sabina Higgins' comment that Ireland's abortion laws are an "outrage" was a shot across the bows. Now comes the ruling from the UN's Human Rights Commission that Irishwoman Amanda Mellet was subjected to "discrimination and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment as a result of Ireland's legal prohibition of abortion" when forced to travel to England in 2011 for an abortion after learning that her 21-week-old baby had a congenital defect that meant survival outside the womb was impossible.  According to the UN, the Government "should amend its law on voluntary termination of pregnancy, including if necessary its Constitution, to ensure compliance with the Covenant (on human rights), including effective, timely and  accessible procedures for pregnancy termination in Ireland".  It was the two words "if necessary" that jumped out from the ruling. Of course it will be necessary to change the Constitution in order to provide the sorts of services that abortion campaigners believe should be available as a matter of routine. That's why there's an ongoing campaign to repeal the Eighth Amendment, which guarantees an equal right to life of mothers and babies.  It's also why the Government is struggling to find a workable solution to the problem beyond drawing up plans for a so-called citizens' convention on the issue. If it was simply a matter of passing a bill there wouldn't be a dilemma, since only one in five TDs is estimated to be opposed on principle to overturning the Eighth. "If necessary" makes it sound like a detail when it's at the core of the issue.  Colm O'Gorman, current executive director of Amnesty International in Ireland, was doing it too. Responding to the UN ruling, he declared: "Ireland's Constitution cannot be used as an excuse. The Eighth Amendment must be repealed to allow the reforms required by this ruling." Once again, thorny moral, medical and social issues are presented as if they are a simple matter of Doing The Right Thing, with the UN ruling being pressed into action in the siege as another battering ram.  O'Gorman even declared that "the question for Ireland now is if it is going to continue to assert its traditional respect for international human rights law or is it going to be one of those rogue states that disregards the rule of international law". His words were reminiscent of the recent short film, written by Father Ted co-creator Graham Linehan and also promoted heavily by Amnesty, which portrayed Ireland as some dark, priest-ridden hole.  Such over-wrought rhetoric risks bringing the pro-choice campaign into disrepute before the referendum campaign has even begun. Is it really too much to ask that they concentrate on the positive benefits that would come from repealing the Eighth rather than denigrating those who have doubts about opening up access to abortion as if they were the equivalent of Kim Jong-un, if not worse?  After all, abortion may be only officially available for "important reasons" in North Korea, but in practice it is provided to women free of charge on demand. A human rights paradise, indeed. Pro-choicers have the tide of history on their side, with polls suggesting more than 60pc of Irish people want to see abortion laws amended, so there's no need to be so strident in attacking those who have yet to be convinced, and may never be so, that abortion is the right procedure to offer to certain women in certain situations.  Even in the case of fatal foetal abnormality, it would be arrogant to deny that making abortion the default "normal" response to discovering that a baby has particular conditions may lead to unforeseen consequences. That has certainly happened, to some extent, with Down Syndrome babies.   A few months ago, a newly- formed group circulated a letter to Dutch MPs protesting at plans to offer pre-natal screening for the condition to every pregnant women in the Netherlands. What, many pro-choice campaigners might say, is wrong with that? It's only information. What a woman chooses to do with that information is her business.  What the group pointed out was that "the more accessible screening for Down Syndrome becomes, the more we move towards a society that has less space for children with Down's. A child with Down's increasingly becomes a child that  could have been prevented". This has repercussions, and they're worth debating in a calm, mutually respectful manner. That isn't possible when the moral high ground has been seized by those who wear their Repeal The Eighth badges as if accessories were argu- ments, or who think a hashtag is a substitute for engaging in good faith with those who are profoundly, sincerely disturbed by the prospect of abortion coming to be regarded as trivial, the easy answer to every maternal crisis.  Again, I stress - and I hate having to do so, because participants in a debate should not be forced to present their credentials at the door before being allowed to speak - that I don't consider these arguments sufficiently compelling to make me change my mind. As long as there are limits and rules, the right to choose remains sacrosanct.  If those of us who want to see a repeal of the Eighth Amendment have confidence in our position, we shouldn't be afraid of leaving room at the table for others with ethical qualms, not least when their votes in any forthcoming referendum will have exactly the same value as every single one of ours.  Insulting your opponents might make your existing friends love you more, but it won't win new ones. Sunday Independent 
