abortion
{ Eilish O'Regan 
    August 22 2002 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/abortion-figures-on-increase-among-under-20s-26038760.html }
THE number of women aged 20 years and younger who  had abortions in the first quarter of the year has increased  significantly although the overall rate in all age groups is  showing a slight reduction, new figures show. It emerged 1,689 women from the Republic had abortions in Britain in the first three months of 2002 compared to 1,696 for the same period last year. Although the downturn is very small it marks the first quarterly fall in numbers since the late 1990s. Since then the rate has been rising, reaching a record 6,625 terminations last year. There was a fall in the first quarter in abortions among older women, particularly those in the mid-thirties and older where the level more than halved. The latest figures for the first three months of the year are significant as they coincide with the run-up to the last abortion referendum held in March when debate and pledges on new initiatives featured strongly in the media. The number of 20-year-olds and teenagers who had abortions in the first quarter of this year went up to 257 compared to 210 during the same period in 2001. Abortions among women in the 20 to 34-year age group fell to 1,242 compared to 1,279. The numbers of terminations among women over 35 fell to 90 compared to 207 last year. Commenting on the figures, Catherine Heaney, assistant chief executive of the Irish Family Planning Association, said: "Over the past year, official figures have indicated a steady increase in the numbers travelling for abortions in the under-20 age group. "This trend is worrying and requires a comprehensive response. Incredibly, at the same time as we have seen these figures rise, there has been a complete withdrawal of funding for the 'think twice' programme, which was aimed at educating, informing and empowering 18 to 35-year-olds about relationships and sexuality." Olive Braiden, chairperson of the Crisis Pregnancy Agency which was set up by the Government in a bid to reduce the abortion rate and provide more support to women with unwanted pregnancies said yesterday she has received a series of submissions from various groups and a consultation process is also underway. The agency which will not be directly involved in counselling but will have an overseeing role is charged with drafting a strategic plan to try bring down the incidence of crisis pregnancies but this will not be ready until next year. The agency was allocated ?6.2m to carry out its work this year but Ms Braiden cautioned it will take a considerable time before any dramatic changes in the abortion rate and other areas of crisis pregnancy can be achieved. Meanwhile, the Medical Council which was embroiled in controversy over new abortions guidelines last year is to draw up a new ethics code. This will entail revising its guidelines on a variety of issues governing doctors' conduct, including abortion. It has written to various bodies with an interest to submit proposals. The ethics committee of the Council is expected to spend several months deliberating on the code. It allows termination of pregnancy where there is a risk to the life of the mother but implicitly rules out risk of suicide. However, it runs contrary to the legal position which allows abortion to be carried out here where there is a risk to the life of the mother, including risk of suicide. 
