abortion
{ Bruce Arnold 
    February 23 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/politicians-should-not-get-off-the-hook-on-this-26059581.html }
WILLIAM BINCHY'S face is one we shall be seeing a lot of in the period  between now and the Referendum on March 6. He has a lot to say on it. The face is very mobile,  particularly the mouth. From this moon-shaped orifice, filled with teeth, a stream of argument  pours forth, ut WILLIAM BINCHY'S face is one we shall be seeing a lot of in the period between now and the Referendum on March 6. He has a lot to say on it. The face is very mobile, particularly the mouth. From this moon-shaped orifice, filled with teeth, a stream of argument pours forth, utterly convinced of its invincibility and certitude. He sweeps aside debate with a conviction that is absolute, and whenever the discussion gets complicated or difficult, or the challenge grows stronger, he accelerates the speed of delivery. The stream of words turns into a flood, gushing over everyone in the firm belief that passion washes away doubt. It is not so. Indeed, the opposite happens. The doubt grows. Such certainty is not proper to so complicated and so difficult a subject. And the result, for me anyway, is that the more I watch William Binchy, the less I believe that what he says is the real argument, or that he is confronting the issues that worry people. These issues are not always about abortion, and it must be said of this chief expert spokesman on behalf of the Yes vote that he concentrates unrelentingly upon abortion itself, or one version of it, the post-implantation abortion. He deliberates, and with relentless tank like advance, he tells us all how to stop abortion, absolutely, for ever and a day. The problem is, he is a lawyer; he needs to answer other questions that alarm people about this strange measure on which we are being invited to vote. Why are we putting into the constitution, for the first time in our history, a crime? And not only that, putting in as well the details of the punishment, up to twelve years in prison for "aiding or procuring" an abortion? This makes that part of the constitution a penal code. Do we want that? And if we do, why not put in child abuse as well, and make it unconstitutional, detailing the crimes and the sentences? And why not then look around for other crimes to bang in? The crimes will go on, including abortion, which all of us accept will continue, and that is all right, so long as it happens in Britain. Why does William Binchy not have very serious doubts indeed about the powers in this piece of legislation that can be vested in a minister by the Government? These allow the minister, by order, to gain access, for the State, to medical records. The measure is clearly aimed at checking on what the consultations between medical practitioners and their female, pregnant patient consist of or contain. It is not specified, though it should be, that this power will only be used if there are other convincing grounds for suspecting that an abortion has taken place. The powers are much more loosely invested. The powers are taken generally, and not just in respect of an individual case. And once in place, approved by resolution of the Dail, such an order can only be amended or revoked by another resolution establishing another order of the Dail. The power given by this is unprecedented. It allows the State to intrude, like "Thought Police" or the old Soviet NKVD, into the confidentiality enjoyed by patients with their doctors. In terms of medical records about medical procedures, including medical opinion, it gives virtually unlimited powers. The justification for doing all of this is very loosely worded indeed: it says that the order makes provision "as may be considered by the member of the Government concerned necessary or appropriate for the purposes of the Act." Surely William Binchy, who teaches law, must see that the distortion and threat to freedom and liberty in this is massive. One area only of medical consultation and treatment is being made subject to an ill-defined surveillance. Because this is directly related to the only crime to be put into our constitution, the crime of aiding or carrying out an abortion (penalty twelve years, it takes on a deeply sinister connotation. Even in a simple piece of legislation, that could subsequently be repealed or amended, such an approach is far too widely drafted. Placing it in the constitution makes even less sense. Once there, it will be irreversible. In theory, of course, it can be reversed. But it is absurd to imagine that by a future referendum we will take out of the constitution this nonsensical Act to Protect Human Life in Pregnancy, dust it over, amend it, and put it back in again. William Binchy must also see the legal confusion over the use of the IUD or the "morning after" pill. The word "presumes" is used in respect of the supposed legality of their use under the terms of the new Act. But the law must see this differently. As contraceptive devices they procure abortions as defined by the Roman Catholic Church and by those Pro-Life organisations campaigning for a No vote. Quite correctly, these bodies see conception beginning with the fertilisation of the egg, and not its implantation in the womb. But the law, in the light of the newly defined crime of abortion in the Act, must view the IUD and the "morning after" pill as coming under the terms of the law as it was after the X Case. That means these devices can only be used by suicidal women or women with known medical problems where a pregnancy would threaten their lives. Otherwise, as devices, they are deliberately procuring abortions and are subject to the existing criminal law against that objective. This piece of nonsense was nonsense anyway, since there is no way of proving the conception. But it means that the existing law is hopelessly out of date, and of course is being flouted all over the country. Nevertheless, in a regime as draconian as the one under the new measure which we are being asked to put into the constitution, people are bound to question all over again their use of practices, some of which have been employed as contraceptives for half a century. The confusion is only so because our legislators have failed to update the law, and will continue to fail to do so if they pursue this referendum solution. There is alarm also about the idea that a member of the Government will designate "approved places" where abortions are transferred into medical procedures by virtue of the Act so recognising them. If a woman has a normal pregnancy which then goes wrong, and requires a medical procedure which would be an abortion if not carried out in an "approved place", is she moved across the countryside in the middle of her labour to make the procedure legal? And if she dies as a result, is the State culpable? The Act does not address this. Nor, so far, have I heard William Binchy addressing it. I wrote scornfully about the legislation when it was first announced, because it totally ignored the actual women going to England for abortions. Wrongly, I approved of it as a device for getting the issue out of our hypocritical system, and settling it politically. Since then I have come to regret even that level of approval. I do not want the constitution to carry this ill-drafted and illogical burden of the law. I want our legislators to bear it. I do not want the people to be persuaded into imagining they are exercising a democratic right in passing legislation when all they are doing is taking those they elect off the hook of making up their minds and having a bit of courage. I do not want doctors to have the added responsibility and possibly the element of fear in their lives which intrusive powers give to ministers. I do not want women to be hung around with burdens of decision-making that are created by cowardly legislators. As a gifted lawyer and teacher I am surprised that William Binchy does not share at least some of these views and seems unwilling to debate them. But I shall keep my eyes on his mouth, and see what comes out next. 
