abortion
{ Carol Hunt 
    December 18 2005 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/abortion-leaves-a-wound-that-needs-professional-healing-26215934.html }
DID you know that the 'increase in abortion is one of the greatest crime-lowering factors in American history'? Wow. How's that for a divisive opening line? Regardless of where one stands on the emotive issue of abortion the statistics show that in the US private grief has been transformed into a public benefit. This uncomfortable claim was made by economist Steven Levitt in a paper called 'Where have all the criminals gone?' now published in the book Freakonomics. Levitt systematically trawled through American crime and abortion statistics and eventually admitted that "legalised abortion led to less unwantedness; unwantedness leads to high crime; legalised abortion, therefore, led to less crime". When Levitt wrote this paper he managed to offend just about everyone. So he must have been writing with a certain degree of neutrality. Because discussing the pros and cons of abortion rationally is still the last great taboo. Which is quite amazing when you consider that even in a country like Ireland - where abortion is illegal - everyone knows somebody who has undergone the procedure. But practically no one will dare to admit this publicly. So is it hypocrisy or shame? A recent report, from the University of Oslo, has also revealed some astonishing statistics regarding abortion. This study concerns itself with psychological suffering of women who undergo elective abortion as compared to those who suffer miscarriages. I know that I, and perhaps many others, would have assumed that a woman who had planned and embraced a pregnancy, told friends and family her good news, would suffer far more emotional distress if she miscarried her child than a woman who made a rational and conscious decision to terminate the pregnancy. I would have assumed wrong. The central astonishing statistic discovered by researchers was that five years after the event less than 3 per cent of the women who had miscarried were still suffering distress as opposed to 20 per cent of those who had had their pregnancies terminated. Twelve years ago I went through what would probably be called a 'crisis pregnancy'. It was unplanned and though I had a steady partner neither of us had ever given much though to becoming parents. After initial misgivings we decided it was all for the best and informed our friends and family of the news. Some time later I suffered what was called a 'missed abortion'. The foetus had died in my womb. It was a sad and difficult time but friends and family were enormously sympathetic and supportive. I was allowed to mourn my loss publicly and rest at home until the physical and mental pain began to heal. At the same time a friend of mine also found herself pregnant. To her distress, she was not in a position where she felt she could continue with the pregnancy and travelled, alone, to Britain, where she had an abortion. Within 24 hours she was back at her desk, displaying the new purchases which were proof of her impromptu 'shopping trip'. There was no rest, no sympathy, no time to come to terms either mentally or physically with what had just occurred, just an ever-increasing feeling of guilt and depression which replaced the initial relief. The impossibility of expressing and therefore neutralising the effects of the trauma which this girl had suffered eventually resulted in her becoming profoundly disturbed and needing medical help. The results of the Oslo report would appear to support this experience. Five years after the event, just over 2 per cent of the women who had suffered miscarriages reported avoidance (avoiding thoughts and feelings related to the event) and intrusion (flashbacks, bad dreams, strong feelings associated with the events), as opposed to nearly 20 per cent who had had an elective abortion. Statistics, of course, can usually be manipulated to support many contradictory arguments. Regardless of where one places oneself in this highly emotional debate, one thing is certain - many women who have undergone an elective termination need post-abortion counselling. Well, it would seem obvious wouldn't it? Imagine if you had a painful miscarriage and couldn't tell your family or friends what had happened to you. You had to sneak around, lying to people and hoping that nobody would catch you out. You thought that what had happened to you was something horrible and shameful and that you had to keep it a secret for the rest of your life. If you were religious you would believe that you were going straight to hell. Physically, an abortion is similar to a miscarriage; mentally, it can be worse. Leaving judgement aside, women who undergo terminations need to be given similar support to women who suffer miscarriage. However, despite the figures from Oslo, not everyone thinks that post-abortion counselling is necessary. In September 2003 the State's First Strategy to Combat Crisis Pregnancy was launched. Under the heading 'Crisis Pregnancy Counselling' it said: "The Strategy finds that it is probable that most women do not require post-abortion counselling and that only a minority 12 per cent access post-abortion check-ups." I find this logic insane. One of the reasons why only 12 per cent access post-abortion check-ups is that many women are terrified their decision to have an abortion will get put on their medical records. With abortion still illegal in Ireland, few women will risk doctors knowing their medical history. No one wants to risk having Youth Defence or similar protesting on their doorstep. And those of us who remember the insanity of the 1983 abortion referendum know that this scenario is all too possible. A friend of mine who suffered a miscarriage was informed by the hospital she attended that the miscarriage was probably the fault of her own actions. She had had a termination some years previously which, according to the medical staff, 'probably' had some connection to the consequent miscarriage. (There was no medical evidence whatsoever that this was the case). She was treated abominably by the hospital and still suffers emotional stress because of her experience. And then we wonder why women don't go to their local GP or hospital for the necessary check-up after a termination? The Well Woman Centre has said that it is rare that a woman would call to book a post-termination counselling session. Outside Dublin it's hard to access counselling that women trust. Judging from my friend's experience, it's not difficult to understand why more women do not seek post-termination counselling. However, this does not mean that they do not need it. Any event which affects the mind and body in the way an abortion or a miscarriage needs professional after care, physical and psychological. Thousands of women travel from Ireland to Britain every year for abortions. That is a fact. Providing them with sympathetic and confidential aftercare on their return will probably not change this fact. However, it could make a huge difference to the physical and mental well-being of these women. A State that supposedly cares for the welfare of all its citizens should provide no less. Post-Abortion Counselling can be accessed at: The Well Woman Centres, The Irish Family Planning Association, and PACT (funded by the Crisis Pregnancy Agency). PACTLINE: 1850673333 email: info@pact.ie 
