abortion
{  
    April 26 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/keeping-my-baby-is-the-best-choice-i-ever-made-26230918.html }
IT'S called not seeing the wood for the trees. We've had more debate about  abortion than any nation should have to bear, and it's far from over, yet we have very  rarely touched on the truth. The truth being that abortion is about choice. There are cases where the mother's life is in danger; there are cases where the pregnancy is the result of  incest or rape; there are cases IT'S called not seeing the wood for the trees. We've had more debate about abortion than any nation should have to bear, and it's far from over, yet we have very rarely touched on the truth. The truth being that abortion is about choice. There are cases where the mother's life is in danger; there are cases where the pregnancy is the result of incest or rape; there are cases where the foetus is so damaged that it has no chance of life outside the womb. But these are extraordinarily rare. The statistics prove what anecdotal evidence has long suggested: that in the vast majority of cases, abortion is a lifestyle choice. Most of the Irish women who travel to Britain for terminations, like most of the women around the world who have abortions, do so because they simply don't want to have a baby. It is less palatable than the worst-case scenarios we have clung to, so maybe it's not so much about seeing the wood for the trees and more about burying your head in the sand. Abortion burst into my conscience during the 1983 abortion referendum. Its vitriol coincided with a time of change and polarised the nation. It was a battle between mutilated babies and oppressed women. Not surprisingly, the mutilated babies won the vote but in the ensuing years, support for the oppressed women grew. It just didn't seem fair that a foetus would have more rights than its mother. At the time, I was old enough to understand what was going on but young enough for abortion to be a hypothetical issue. It was an incredible time for women's rights and social change; the Eighties were Ireland's 1960s: a battle between old, traditional Ireland and new, liberal Ireland. In 1983, being "an unmarried mother" was scandalous. There were special wards for them in maternity hospitals, many of the babies were given up for adoption whether the mother liked it or not. It felt like you were either aligned to the old or the new. And with the new you were pro-choice, pro-divorce, pro-sex, anti-establishment. Or something like that. By the end of the Eighties it was no longer too scandalous to have a baby out of wedlock. But it was "a pity". And it still is in certain circles. There is no question that having a child changes a woman's life. Men can and do walk away. It is harder to go to college when you have a child; it is harder to travel, to get a career and all that brings with it: the car, the holidays, the property, the SSIA, the pension plan. I was fortunate enough to have been one of the girls for whom having a baby when I was very young would have been "a pity". I had opportunities that would have been if not lost, impeded by motherhood. I had also aligned myself with New Ireland. We had heated discussions about what we believed and what we would do, and as a very young woman I always said that if I got pregnant, I'd have an abortion. Fortunately, I never had to make the choice then, but the hypothetical decision lingered like a mantra: if I was pregnant I'd have an abortion. Then I got pregnant. And I thought about having an abortion. I thought about nothing else for weeks. That decision was not based on the morality of abortion, which to my mind is matched by the morality of having a child you don't want. It was based on circumstances. This was not what I had envisaged. Could I afford it? Could I cope? What would it mean for the future? All very logical. All, apparently, very typical of the average Irish woman who has an abortion. But strictly at odds with all this was one factor I hadn't counted on back in the hypothetical days: the reality of having a baby in your belly. But maybe even that odd feeling of loving someone before they are even made is partly dictated by circumstance. I was in my late twenties, I'd had my education, I had travelled, I was solvent, I had great support. I have always been, and remain, pro-choice. And I chose to have my baby. It was the best choice I ever made. But it was a choice. 
