abortion
{ Bruce Arnold 
    July 20 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/there-is-no-need-to-reopen-this-divisive-issue-26080972.html }
MINISTER for Health, Mr Micheal Martin, has been chairing the ministerial sub-committee on abortion. Its deliberations have been going on for the past year, and he  promises a report by the end of the month. This, he says, will be "subject to conditions", but he does not tell us what these conditions are. The sub-committee has on it experienced politicians. There is Mary O'Rourke, always a pragmatist. There is Liz O'Donnell, whose reputation, in part, derives from her personal courage and her capacity to speak her mind. John O'Donoghue may be ponderous in his manner, but he is a realist. And the same can be said for Brian Cowen. The flakey one in all of this seems to be Micheal Martin himself. He is dithering about "a number of ongoing consultations" and with the problems of "drafting and so forth" as he puts it. Meanwhile, outside the committee, the Taoiseach is telling us that the government needs to have "a long chat" on the subject. Pregnant with expectation, the country hangs upon this parade of wise men and women deciding on the future of the unborn child. "So there is still a journey to travel yet," the Minister for Health tells us. "But the commitment is there to pursue the issue. We are not holding back on it, in terms of trying to dodge issues. They are going to be difficult. There is no point in denying that. But nonetheless I think we have an obligation to put these issues before the people." Let me now help the Minister and his committee, and save the rest of us a bit of time and a lot of unnecessary agonising. Despite the constitutional and legal freedom for abortion to be performed in the State, which is the reason behind the Taoiseach's assurances, the deliberations of the committee, and "the long chat", no abortions are taking place for social or economic reasons in the State. None. There are no abortion clinics. No doctors are offering the service of abortion to their patients. Nor is there any likelihood at all of this happening. Even without new legislation, present laws in the State governing health care would make it extremely difficult for this situation to be changed by the doctors or nursing staff required for the provision of an abortion service. But the fact that it has not been attempted should be at the top of any ministerial report by responsible heads of departments of state directly involved in the issue who have been spending the past year considering the question. Secondly, there have been no known threats of suicide, or cases of suicide, related to abortion since the X Case, and that is now a decade past. We do have a suicide problem, and it is, regrettable, among younger people in the main. But it generally derives from pressures of a quite different kind from those envisaged at the time of the X Case. There are medical procedures carried out in the State which technically constitute abortion. They are taking place in hospitals and nursing homes of all religious persuasion, including those directly under the patronage of the Catholic Church. They have been the subject of considerable deliberation among professionals involved in medicine and in medical ethics, and they are in part responsible for what is by far the most serious problem facing those who seek to amend the Constitution, and that is the question of wording. But this question is directed at allowing the medical procedures to go on, and not in stopping them. So whatever we do, we will ensure that the only abortion procedures that are taking place in the State at present will go on taking place, whatever we do in terms of legislative or constitutional change. What could be more absurd than a group of experienced politicians considering for a year how to deal with a problem that is not there, and knowing that the minor, specialist, technical form of the problem whatever changes they propose will continue after they have finished? The problem itself has been solved by our wicked old neighbour, England. The agony of abortion, the social guilt, the economic burden of an unwanted pregnancy, the shame, the pain, the indifference, the emotive view taken of the act as an act of homicide against the unborn child, all of these issues have been exported elsewhere. The hypocrisy of it is regrettable. But the convenience suits the people who are involved. The Celtic Tiger has made it easier and smoother than it used to be. No doubt there are still sad and tragic cases where the abortion road to England cannot be afforded. But fairly universally throughout the State the problem as such has been solved. And the solution has made an entire mockery of the ponderous deliberations of politicians who should be spending their time dealing with problems which already exist rather than inventing problems where they do not exist. The problem of abortion does not exist at the social or economic level. It is not taking place. It is not likely to take place. It is taking place in England, and we can do nothing about that, nor can we do anything about the five to ten thousand Irish women who each year make use of the overseas service. So what are our politicians thinking about? Do they seek to compound their abject hypocrisy with a religious fervour that seeks to milk votes from a parallel fervour among their constituents? Are they still attempting to play the political games that enticed Garret FitzGerald and Charles Haughey to make such absolutes asses of themselves in the early 1980s over abortion? Are those strange days still with us, or threatening to come back to haunt us? Or is Bertie Ahern, who has some reputation for being a realist about sexual and moral attitudes in the State, going to have "the long chat" and then come to the short decision. This is that there is nothing to be done, no constitutional wording that can possibly work, and no need for such a wording, since there isn't any problem that is not already being solved. The matter of abortion, as a problem for the State is over. Like drugs, drink, tobacco and sexually transmitted diseases, it is there as an inescapable consequence of human action. But it is not there as something that we need to do anything about, because its actuality has been relocated abroad. And the danger of this changing, notwithstanding the Supreme Court, is something that needs no Government decision. At most it should be placed in the hands of a Principal Officer in the Department of Health to monitor and make reports to his minister every six months. His conclusions are outlined above. Need we do more? 
