abortion
{ Eilish O'Regan 
    August 23 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/abortion-numbers-rise-as-years-total-heads-for-7000-26078083.html }
THE rate of Irish abortions continues to grow with new figures showing this year's total heading for nearly 7,000. A total of 1,696 women from the Republic went to Britain for terminations in the first three months of 2001, compared to 1,520 for the same period in 1999. The Irish Family Planning Association said the figures highlighted the problem of crisis pregnancies while the government was "burying its head in the sand" on the issue. "Irishwomen will continue to travel in significant numbers to the UK for abortions," said the Family Planning Association's chief executive, Tony O'Brien. "No amount of debate by this government on the merits or otherwise of holding another divisive abortion referendum will change the situation," he said. "If this trend persists for 2001 we may see the Irish abortion rate rise to around 7,000 at the end of the year," Mr O'Brien said. Of the women who had abortions in the first three months of this year, 210 were under the age of 20 while the majority were aged 20 to 34. Among those over 35 there were 207 abortions. It is unclear why the numbers have continued to increase, although it appears that the traditional reluctance among Irish women to give their correct address has waned. The age profile of the country's population may also be a factor. Pro-life groups blame legislation in the mid-1990s allowing names and addresses of abortion clinics to be given out by counselling agencies, for creating a more liberal climate. To date there have been conflicting signals from the government on the possibility of an autumn referendum on abortion. However, with the growing number of job losses it is believed the coalition will attempt to long-finger the issue rather than risk its current popularity. The doctors' governing body, the Medical Council, is due to meet next month to discuss relaxing part of its ethical code on abortion, possibly to include allowing abortion where the baby's brain has not developed. The Family Planning Association chief said that it was now a year since the All Party Committee on the Constitution agreed there was a need to put a strategy in place to reduce crisis pregnancies. "The strategy envisaged a comprehensive education and contraceptive programme at a cost of £5m annually," he said. "Unfortunately not a single penny has been spent to bring about a reduction in the abortion rate." Mr O'Brien called for the urgent establishment of post-abortion services to ensure those travelling to the UK for terminations get counselling and essential medical checks when they return home. 
