abortion
{  
    February 03 2013 05:53 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/weve-learned-the-hard-way-to-dither-can-be-fatal-29046386.html }
So the Government is entering the closing phase of what has now been decades of fannying around, and we are assured that we can finally expect some legal clarity on the X case issue before the summer. But all evidence points to the fact that this measure will be little more than a finger in the dam, against a changing tide of public opinion. Results from a Sunday Independent/Millward Brown poll demonstrated that a hefty majority (59 per cent) favours a full referendum on abortion, while only 23 per cent are happy to leave it to the Houses of the Oireachtas to remedy the situation, given their usual official channels of avoidance and procrastination. Of course, getting a referendum going takes decisive action too – not an area our political classes have a good track record in. But now, the public have unequivocally handed them the baton. The polls show that avowed pro-lifers are as keen on the idea of a plebiscite as those identified as pro-choice. But what has finally become apparent in the wake of the death of Savita Halappanavar is that public opinion as it stands is completely at odds with our existing legislature. On almost every salient point in this discussion, the polled public voted in favour of liberalisation of our laws, including, crucially, where there is a threat to the long-term health of the mother (69 per cent), and when a woman has become pregnant as a result of rape (72 per cent). Abortions carried out to save the mother, from either life-threatening illness or a suicide, still fall into the "maybe, possibly,  theoretically illegal" camp, because of the government's failure to legislate for the X case. After decades of fence-sitting and woolly thinking, the issue of abortion has indeed crystallised around a single, tragic event. And not just as a reflex of embarrassment and shame, but suggesting real, meaningful sea-change. In the past, much of the discussion about abortion in the coffee shops and main streets of modern Ireland tended to have been characterised by moral queasiness rather than moral clarity; a general unease around the idea of following other countries down the road to abortion-on-demand, tempered by relief that the UK is so close at hand should any of us be personally troubled by the issue. Whether our misgivings are a result of Catholic hangover or simply an individual, instinctive ethical response, is hard to quantify. But it's also now beside the point. Because we've come to realise that murkiness is dangerous. That is some measure of progress, without doubt. But those on the pro-choice side of the argument have been accused of an ethical hijack –  of using the terrible circumstances of Savita Halappanavar's death to seize the high moral ground and to further the case for liberalised abortion. It's probably a fair charge, but I can't say that I'm sorry pro-choice thinking finally has a foothold on the way to becoming policy rather than just hot air. What is  terrible is that it took the untimely death of a  pregnant woman for that to happen. What happened to Savita was horrendous. But if the only constructive thing to come out of her death is that it has forced us to stop fudging our ethics, to pick a side, and to push for a new referendum, then that, at least, is something. The abortion issue, for so long on the long finger, has been propelled to the top of the agenda. And in re-opening debate, a picture of where the Irish public stand on it is becoming clearer to see. In fact, the public has previously demonstrated a resistance to the idea of just keeping to the status quo. In 2002 an attempt by Fianna Fail  to enshrine hypocrisy in law, following the X case, was rejected by the Irish public. The 25th amendment aimed to formalise "an Irish solution to an Irish problem" by tightening abortion law at home, removing risk of suicide as a mitigating factor, while  simultaneously protecting a woman's right to nip off to the UK and get it done over there. The public voted against by a narrow margin. It was a vote against duplicity. In the recent polls, it's the youngest people who are most in favour of real change.  Almost 40 per cent of 18-24-year-olds questioned felt it was acceptable for a woman to have an abortion for "other reasons" besides any threat to her life or health. This is not just some generational gap of ideology or about the kids being more right on. It's because the issue of abortion has the biggest direct impact on that age group. As a female of reproductive age, to whom pregnancy is not an ethical abstract, a point of debate, but a more than theoretical possibility, I'm with the avowedly pro-choice 30 per cent of the public. I'd defend any woman's right to an abortion, should she so choose one, regardless of risk to life or health. It's about autonomy. I simply cannot see why anyone at all, least of all the State, should presume to force me to bear a child, if I myself were to decide that I didn't have the capacity, emotional, physical or financial, to do so. The notion that my own judgment about something as personal and fundamental as parenthood should be overruled by the decisions of our politicians feels intrusive. Parenthood is a miraculous thing. But the more I learn about it, the more I am convinced that it's not something anyone should undertake unless they are absolutely sure to be able for it. And/or that they have ample support. Small children regularly push their parents to the edge of despair, wring them of their last ounces of energy, patience and humour. Motherhood seems to me to be the most stressful undertaking in the world. I've seen toddlers reduce mature, balanced women to frazzled, weeping husks. To survive that, you've got to really want to be in it in the first place. I don't pretend that these views are new, or original. But they are worth reiterating. Not least because more and more people are coming around to that way of thinking. It's not yet a triumph for the principle of legalised abortion, I grant you, but interestingly a potentially vote-swinging 25 per cent of people responded that "it depends", while nine per cent said they "didn't know" when asked about abortion where neither rape nor threat to life or health obtains. There's clearly still a lot of soul-searching, reflection and revision going on out there. We need a referendum to take the measure of the change. Irish Independent 
