abortion
{ Grainne Cunningham and  Gene McKenna 
    October 02 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/conflict-brings-plan-for-referendum-and-legislation-26069923.html }
AFTER months of deliberation and consultation, the Cabinet committee on Abortion met yesterday morning to  give their final assent to plans for a new abortion referendum. The Cabinet then set in motion the timetable for the issue to be put to voters for the third time in 18 years including: * Immediate publication of the proposed legislation for the referendum and the type of abortion regime it would introduce. * Plans to bring this legislation before the Dail quickly and have it debated and through the House before Christmas. The referendum will probably be held in the spring, so that one way or another, it is disposed of before the expected June general election. The verdict of the State's 2.8m voters will decide whether the Constitution will include a law that specifically bans suicide as a reason for an abortion and allows precedence to be given to the life of the mother if there is a substantial risk in continuation of the pregnancy. The Government's proposals roll back the High and Supreme Court decisions in the X and C cases in which abortion was accepted because the teenagers threatened suicide. Over 105,000 submissions on the abortion issue were made to the Oireachtas Committee on the Constitution, 99pc of which sought a referendum on a total ban on abortion. During a month of public hearings, the Committee heard from numerous lobby groups. The Pro Life Group told the Committee that an absolute ban is the only solution but conceded that doctors should be allowed to continue to use medical intervention. Dr Gerard Casey, of the Public Policy Institute of Ireland, said that any attack on human life was subversive and there was a huge moral difference between medical treatments to protect the health and life of the mother and direct abortion. The Irish Congress of Trade Unions called for the introduction of legislation giving effect to the Supreme Court decision in the X case which allows abortion where there is a real and substantial risk to the life of the mother, including suicide. It also advocated that there be no time limits on the termination of the pregnancy, as in life-threatening situations for the mother they normally did not apply. Congress supported the whole issue of information, facilities, back-up support, and education. The Irish Family Planning Association submitted that women should be allowed to make decisions on abortions for themselves in consultation with doctors, as it was unreasonable for society to take the role of arbiter on itself. The Abortion Reform group called for legislation to implement the Supreme Court decision in the X case. The testimony from medical experts, including the three Masters of the Dublin maternity hospitals, showed there is no appetite for abortion on demand. Paediatrician Dr Brian Denham said that mothers pregnant with a baby carrying cystic fibrosis should be offered the option of an abortion in Ireland. Dr TK Whitaker, the chairman of the Constitutional Review Group, said a diagnosis should be supplied by two psychiatrists before a woman claiming to be suicidal was granted an abortion. 
