abortion
{ Ivana Bacik 
    February 28 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/misguided-measure-bound-to-cause-confusion-26060144.html }
CONFUSION reigns in the referendum debate. The Government  have been making many false claims about this constitutional amendment; they have been proved wrong in  saying it will protect the morning-after pill. Could they be  wrong on other points as well? Let's look at the facts. The referendum procedure itself is highly complex; this is the first time the people are asked to give constitutional status to a piece of legislation (the 'Protection of Human Life in Pregnancy Act 2002'). If the referendum is passed, and the Oireachtas passes the Act within six months, the Act will have constitutional status, so any change to it would require another referendum. The Oireachtas will not be able to amend it in the normal way; an unprecedented removal of power from our elected representatives. If it is passed, the main effect of the new Act would be to overrule the X case - the 1992 Supreme Court decision in which a 14 year-old suicidal rape victim was allowed to have an abortion because her pregnancy posed a 'real and substantial risk' to her life. The referendum would remove suicide risk as a ground for abortion. Why are the Government doing this? They claim that pregnant women are never suicidal (if so, why bother having a referendum to remove a non-existent risk?) Of course they are wrong in this claim. We know that in both the X case, and the 1997 C case, two very real Irish teenagers were pregnant and suicidal. It is vital that the X case remains law, to protect the lives of any girls or women in the same position in future. The Government also claim that if the referendum is defeated, floods of women (and psychiatrists) will fake suicide risk in order to obtain abortions. This is not only offensive to women and psychiatrists, suggesting we are all liars; but it is clearly not true. The X case has been law for 10 years, and no such pretence has ever happened. To suggest that keeping the X case as law would somehow allow for 'liberal abortion' is also patently untrue. The X case is highly restrictive, requiring proof of suicide risk or other risk to life; not even serious risk to the woman's health is enough to allow abortion. The next false claim made by the Government is that the morning-after pill is protected by this amendment. They have clearly been proved wrong on this; Lawyers Against the Amendment, the Opposition parties, the Catholic Church and the Referendum Commission all agree that the Act will not protect either the morning-after pill or IUD contraceptive method. Both work by preventing implantation of the fertilised egg in the womb; pre-implantation. But although the proposed Act would only apply to unborn life after implantation, other pre-existing constitutional rights attached to unborn life which apply before implantation will remain in place. So it would be possible for an anti-contraceptive group to get a court order preventing doctors from prescribing the morning-after pill, even if the referendum were passed. It would also be possible for a future Oireachtas to pass a law criminalising the morning-after pill, whether this referendum is passed or not. The Government claim further that if a pregnant girl in the care of a health board were suicidal (as happened in the C case), the health board could still bring her abroad for an abortion if the referendum is passed. In this too they are wrong. The referendum confirms the freedom to travel abroad for an abortion, but does not create any right to travel - nor does it give the power to any state agency to bring a woman abroad for an abortion. Under the Child Care Act 1991, health boards have no authority to bring a child abroad for an abortion. They must apply to the District Court for permission, which will only be given for an abortion that would be lawful in Ireland. While the X case remains law, a suicidal girl could lawfully have an abortion here; so if there was psychiatric evidence of suicide risk, the Court could allow the health board to bring her to England, as happened in the C case. If this referendum is passed, a girl in C's position would be denied permission to travel because abortion on grounds of suicide risk would no longer be lawful here. She would have to be detained against her will in Ireland, and her life - and of course the life of her unborn - would accordingly be at serious risk. Finally, the amendment would create a new criminal offence of abortion; any woman who seeks to abort herself - or anyone who tries to help her - would be liable for up to 12 years in prison, even if raped or suicidal. So much for compassion for women with crisis pregnancies. The Government may claim that no prosecutions will be taken (so why create a new criminal offence?) - but they should not be trusted on this, or on any of their other claims about this dangerous and misguided referendum. In order to safeguard women's lives, it is essential that we vote No on March 6th. Ivana Bacik is Reid Professor of Law at Trinity College Dublin. 
