abortion
{  
    April 30 2013 11:23 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/liz-odonnell-outsourcing-abortion-still-the-crude-option-in-a-toxic-debate-29230154.html }
The air has become thick and toxic with politics over the last week. There are times when issues can be debated and parsed without that conflicted overlay of self- serving guile which is the essence of politics. But as this Coalition Government approaches mid-point and elections loom ever closer, people are positioning themselves near the lifeboats. These manoeuvres range from a growing number of conservative Fine Gael backbenchers holding the Government to ransom over legislating for the X case, to Fianna Fail strategically repositioning itself at a well-orchestrated Ard Fheis over the weekend. Meanwhile, the Labour Party battles on several fronts for political survival. On the economic front, it is in a self-destructive stand-off with the trade unions on the subject of public service pay while simultaneously wrestling with its liberal credentials on the abortion issue. They would need the courage of the Munster rugby team. But on the abortion issue, the prize will be the votes of progressive women at the next election. Scandalously shirked by successive governments, legislation on abortion is no longer postponable. Savita Halappanaver's death last October highlighted the urgent need for certainty as to the degree of risk to a mother's life required to allow a lawful termination of a pregnancy. Expert medical evidence was given that had an earlier intervention been permitted by law, she would not have died. This is a not a matter for leisurely debate. It requires immediate attention so that women can feel secure that their lives would be adequately protected in such circumstances. To legislate for the Savita case must now be the priority. Yet there is an obsession with suicide ideation in Fine Gael. The suicide sideshow came even more centre stage last week with the prospect of abortion tribunals to test the veracity of suicide claims. Even the College of Psychiatrists balked at that scenario. Twenty years ago, Miss X – a child pregnant and suicidal as a result of rape – thankfully didn't have to endure such an ordeal thanks to the compassion and wisdom of the Supreme Court judges. Like it or not, the Supreme Court decision in the X case established the law in 1992. The decision was right on the facts. "Floodgates" did not open. There have not been hundreds of women claiming abortions on the grounds of suicide. Nor will they if the law is clarified by Statute. We will still have a very conservative abortion regime in Ireland. The current obsession with the suicide issue is wrong-headed and is taking away from the substantive issue of the Savita case, which frankly has more immediate relevance and importance to the majority of pregnant women and their doctors. What is clear is that attitudes have hardened on both sides of the abortion issue as the publication date of the Bill is imminent. Opposition within Fine Gael has been growing, not diminishing, as months passed. This has allowed the anti-abortion lobby to work on backbenchers and for more TDs to be emboldened to join the dissident rump. Sources indicate that more than 15 TDs would now oppose any such legislation in defiance of the party whip. There were even mutterings of a new party. The question is does Enda Kenny have the authority to legislate in the face of such dissent? Time will tell, but it is a real test of his mettle as Taoiseach and party leader. Ministers with liberal views, particularly women, need to speak out to balance vocal opposition by Lucinda Creighton and others. Mindful of Fine Gael's internal difficulties, Labour is bending over backwards to appear reasonable. But the parties are poles apart as illustrated by unethically taped views expressed by two Labour TDs. The tactics are getting dirtier with the pro-life activists resorting to sting operations. Everyone knows that differences in the two parties are irreconcilable if articulated honestly. But, when did honesty ever inform the abortion debate? The politics of abortion in Ireland is built on dishonesty, even hypocrisy on a national scale. And we are all complicit. Without batting an eyelid, 20 years ago we legislated for a constitutional right to travel out of the country for an abortion and around 5,000 Irish women do so each year. Yet we are tearing ourselves apart and risking the stability of a good Government about allowing the same procedure to take place here in very limited circumstances, where a woman's life is at risk, including through suicide. All of us, including the dissenting Fine Gael TDs, appear morally ok with extra jurisdictional outsourcing of Irish abortions, mainly in the UK, regardless of circumstances. Out of sight out of mind. Liz O'Donnell is a former junior minister at the Department of Foreign Affairs Irish Independent 
