abortion
{ Eilish O'Regan 
    January 18 2020 02:30 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/health/huge-fall-in-numbers-going-to-uk-for-abortions-38872293.html }
The number of Irish women travelling to UK clinics for an abortion has declined dramatically in the past year, new  figures show. Last year just 31 women from the Republic, who were under 12 weeks pregnant, had terminations in clinics run by one of the main providers of abortions, the British Pregnancy Advisory Service (BPAS). This compares to 747 for 2018, figures obtained by the Irish Independent reveal. The fall-off follows the change in the law from January 2019 allowing  for unrestricted medical abortion up to 12 weeks of pregnancy. It also allows for abortion where the life or health of the mother is at risk and in cases of fatal foetal abnormality. The UK figures also show a drop in the number of women from the Republic who were beyond 12 weeks pregnant having abortions, but it was less marked - down from 236 in 2018 to 115 last year. The largest group using UK clinics was aged 31-40 years. Ten women over 40 from the Republic had abortions in the clinics last year, compared to 51 in 2018. Overall the BPAS clinics carried out 146 abortions for women from the Republic last year, down from 983 in 2018, a reduction of 85pc. A report on the number of abortions carried out under the new law is due in the coming months and figures for all clinics in the UK will not be published until June. "Providers in the UK have seen a huge drop in the number of Irish women coming to us for care since the law changed in the Republic, but as expected we are still seeing some women being forced to travel," a spokeswoman for BPAS said.  "BPAS remains the provider of last resort for Irish women who are unable to get the care they need at home - whether that's because they are beyond the 12-week limit, have received a devastating diagnosis of severe foetal abnormality or have experienced shortcomings within the Irish healthcare system. "We will continue to treat every woman who needs us from Ireland - but we support Irish pro-choice voices who have said from the outset that the current law does not always enable women to make the best choice for them and their families." Charlene Delaney, spokesperson for the Abortion Rights Campaign, said: "Strict cut-off times and inadequate local availability mean that people are still travelling for abortions - whether that be by bus, train or plane." Health Minister Simon Harris said: "When we started this service, we had fewer than 170 GPs but this has doubled to over 340.  "All our maternity hospitals are providing termination of pregnancy care. Ten are providing the full range of  services." Irish Independent 
