abortion
{  
    April 28 2013 03:03 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/transcript-good-rural-tds-go-to-mass-and-are-against-abortion-29226643.html }
Q: There was something else I wanted to ask you about, am, and especially in the last few days I find I'm thinking about it again, am, just about termination of pregnancy. And I find I've been kind of . . . there's a lot of posters in town about it right now and it seems there's quite a kick-back, you know, from the other side and I was disappointed, you know especially given like that Labour's party voted, you know, in favour of a right to choose and didn't vote for Clare Daly's bill. Q: There was something else I wanted to ask you about, am, and especially in the last few days I find I'm thinking about it again, am, just about termination of pregnancy. And I find I've been kind of . . . there's a lot of posters in town about it right now and it seems there's quite a kick-back, you know, from the other side and I was disappointed, you know especially given like that Labour's party voted, you know, in favour of a right to choose and didn't vote for Clare Daly's bill. Aodhan O Riordain: Mmmm. Q: Am, so, I was . . . It just seems like with all those posters and stuff, the other side are getting very organised. A: Well, yeah, well I'm delighted to hear that we are of a similar mindset because most people who get in contact with me are pretty violently opposed to abortion or termination or whatever you know and eh, in the last week of election, again, I went to one road and maybe every second house I went to – "never voting Labour – abortion". I voted against Clare Daly's bill because. . . It wasn't a proper bill it wasn't going anywhere. I mean we look at the Children's Rights Referendum coming up, right, I'll just give you an example, if we don't get that wording proper – with even a comma out of place it will end up in the Supreme Court because these people who are behind these campaigns are so well organised, so well financed and they have lawyers to beat the band, so you don't get your wording absolutely 100 per cent correct, you're wasting time. Q: But the children's referendum won't have any effect? A: Won't have any effect on abortion, but I mean, what I'm saying is it's the very same argument. Q: Oh, just the legal kind of structure or whatever? A: Yeah, Clare Daly's bill wouldn't last five minutes in the Supreme Court. I would have thrown up. Now I admire her for pushing the issue. We set up an expert group immediately. It's reporting back. I have signed a letter only last week to James Reilly wanting ABC case to be prioritised immediately, you know for legislation to be brought into the Health Act and of course the X case as well. It's not going away. But we have a political problem. We need to get 76-odd Fine Gael TDs who are very anti-abortion to walk into Leinster House and vote for it. So how do you do that? You do it in a way that an expert group comes back and says "this is the way it has to be". And they can go back to their constituency, they can go to Mass on Sunday and they can stand outside Mass and say "well, yeah I did but the expert group told us to". Would I have loved to walk in and have voted for Clare Daly's bill? Absolutely. But would that have actually done what we wanted to do? No. Q: And do you think it's realistic that there will be legislation? A: Oh, yeah, there has to be. We can't go back . . . we can't look at our own members in the face. I can't look at my own family in the face or my friends or people who fight for this issue – Ivana Bacik is similar, myself, Ciara Conway . . . there are many of us. Even we had a private meeting, I remember, and even Eamon Gilmore said: "I don't like voting against this but I know that in the end of the day what we are doing actually results in this – you know, proper abortion legislation." Q: Okay. A: They are getting organised and it's a horrible debate. And you know . . . There is a guy called David Quinn, lives in Clontarf and he wrote an article about me before the last general election saying "you vote for this guy, you're voting for abortion" and that I was standing outside his local church and I was a hypocrite. As a result of that the last week of election instead of being about the economy unemployment, disadvantage poverty and all the things we care about, it became about abortion. So you know . . . Yes, eh I had this argument with somebody there a while ago as well. I wanted to vote for CD Bill. Would it have succeeded? No it wouldn't. A Supreme Court case and you're flummoxed. Q: Well, I suppose like that's over now, so I would be concerned that people are working within the Labour Party or whatever to advance this. Is that happening? A: Oh yeah, of course. Sure, we are all of the same mindset. I mean we have had this discussion. Oh yeah no please, please be assured that that is our absolute position. And also, there are many people didn't think the bill didn't go far enough . . . But em, no, no it's a really important one for us. Because I think if we don't achieve . . . I mean the economy is a big thing but we have so many things to achieve on gay rights, on women's rights, on abortion rights, eh, that we have to be able to go at the end of this government and say "at least we did that". Q: Yeah, and if the expert group doesn't come back . . . A: Oh, it has to. Q: Well, I know it has to report back, but if it doesn't come back with that option? A: If it doesn't, Anne Ferris has said she will introduce her own bill and I said that I will support her on it. Q: Okay. And would that just be for ABC and X? A: It could be . . . Am, I don't know what she is thinking it would be at least that, if not more. Q: Okay. A: At least that, if not more. Because, em, that was her understanding with the party leader at the time – okay we will vote down this bill but if the expert group doesn't come back saying this then we are going to introduce our own legislation on it. Q: That would probably be after the summer, would it? A: I think the expert group comes back in July. Q: Oh, right, when does the Dail break? A: Eh, the end of June. Well, the week before July. Q: Oh, so pretty much now? A: Yeah. Q: Oh, okay. A: So this is a strong position you have had for a long time? Or? Q: Am, well just in college, I know a good friend of mine, am, who had to . . . A: Yep. It's funny 'cos many people instinctively are anti-abortion until they meet someone who has had one. I have had a similar experience. With myself a friend of mine who I didn't know. And she just came out one day and told me. I said: "You are absolutely right to do that. Or you're absolutely right to have that choice to do that, it's completely your decision." But, eh, I would say this much. It's a horrible, horrible debate. Q: Yeah, I know. A: And as a Government when you have people in Fine Gael . . . during the, I don't know if you heard the debate in the Dail, but I mean we had a Fine Gael TD from Mayo stand up and start talking about fornication. Fornication leads to, em . . . is a sin and leads to abortion. And that fornication is the problem. Q: Mmmm. A: And you're just going, oh my God, we want this woman to walk in in six months' time and vote for an abortion bill! And how the hell are we going to do that? If they all break ranks then, you know we won't get anywhere. Q: Do you think, when it does come down to it how realistic is it that they would break? A: We are already talking about breaking if it doesn't happen, so they might break if it does. I think there'd be enough votes, eh . . . Q: No, I don't mean break the Coalition, I mean them coming offside to vote for the bill. A: Yeah, yeah, well I mean, as I say, I've already told you that there's potential for us to go outside of our own party if the expert group doesn't say what we hope it's going to say, so they could possibly do the same thing. Q: Mmmm. A: I mean, em, you have to realise, em, somebody representing somewhere like Monaghan – now my wife's from Monaghan – start talking about abortion rights in Monaghan and, you know, you don't get too far. Or Donegal or Mayo or you know. The idea of being a good TD is you go to Mass and you're a good Catholic. You're against abortion and you know ... and everything's fine. You know, as I say my wife's from Monaghan and I go up there and sometimes I just scratch my head at some of the . . . just the . . . Q: Comments? A: Some of the, just the latent homophobia. The, em, you know . . . It's bizarre. You think Ireland has moved on . . . With the Constitutional Convention we're having, we want to, eh, introduce gay marriage which to me is no big deal and it's a fundamental civil right but it's not as easy for some people to go to their constituents and say they voted for it. Q: Even in Labour, or just. . .? A: Oh no, not Labour, we're fine with it. Q: Yeah. A: We're the ones who are pushing it. Q: Is the Constitutional Convention, is that Labour's or is that the Government's? A: That's the Government's, yeah. Q: Oh, okay, all right. A: But I mean what we have to do is to make sure that . . . like any email I ever get on abortion would make you terrified to even mention the word. Because the poison about "you are a this that and the other". I get postcards from these people; they send you pictures of baby foetuses and stuff. There is a whole postcard-campaign-to-constituents thing. They pick up postcards in the back of church and fill them out and send them to local TDs. So every day get about five or six postcards. Sometimes from your constituency sometimes from around the country saying "protect the right to life" and "you have no mandate to do this", "we're never going to vote for yourselves again" and all the rest . . . and it hasn't even started. Unfortunately, the reality is that we have to give some comfort to government TDs on the Fine Gael side to be able to walk into Leinster House and vote for an abortion bill which would be in their minds political suicide for where they are from but the expert group is the way to do that – do you know what I mean? Because they can say "well, the expert group told us to do it". Expert group can't but, the expert group has to, because of the European Case, because of the X case . . . I mean we were told 20 years, so it can't be anything but that. It has to say ABC and X and to me if that's all it is, it is a starting point. Once you get that . . . Q: The thin edge of the wedge . . . A: Then you can move . . . and of course if I'm on the radio and somebody says to me "it's a starting point for abortion on demand", I'm gonna say "No of course it isn't, it is what it is" . . . but once you have established the, em . . . Q: Right? A: Yeah, then maybe over a period of time if Irish society changes, will have a more open-minded view on it. No, I mean it's just . . . it is the one issue that you get incredible abuse about. That, racism is another one. I stood up in the Dail the very first day and said "why are we saying a prayer?". You wouldn't believe the dog's abuse I got and my mother got. Q: And your mum? A: Mmmm, yeah people ringing up the family home. They're funny. Q: Yeah. It's a tough business to be in. A: You have to believe in it. I mean, you can stand over a society that forces 3,000/4,000 women to go abroad and you know we met the women who appeared on The Late Late Show. Q: Oh, from The Irish Times? A: Yeah, now I get a sense from the way that they were able to present their case that there is a bit more hope than there has been . . . you know? Q: For that? A: For that. But that situation mightn't help your friend. Q: No. A: Yeah, so you know . . . it's eh . . . I think the ABC case or X case wouldn't do too much for your friend but once you have established a principle then we will get there over time. But I'll say this much, it's never going to happen unless Labour are in government. It just wouldn't happen. Q: Mmmm. A: We had it in our manifesto that we would legislate for the X Case. Fine Gael had . . . Sorry, then the agreement in the Programme for Government was that we would set up the expert group, em, because FG are more worried about the abortion issue than we are. Q: Mmmm. A: So that's . . . Look it, unfortunately on the registration fees issue, I don't have any good news for you, but eh, on the abortion issue, stick with us, we're gonna get there. Q: Okay. A: Hopefully, people like yourself would be in a position to, I don't know . . . could make a case, I suppose . . . to appreciate what politicians do and at least to counter some of the crap that we get. As in if you were to send an email or people like you or who felt like you, were to send a praiseworthy email to Fine Gaelers who are worried about it, it might make their lives easier. I don't know. Q: Okay . . . A: The issue about abortion and a lot of these social issues is that like old people vote. Old people go to Mass and old people vote. And that's why you know these things are very, very [inaudible]. We should have done it 20 years ago. Twenty years ago we stopped a 14-year-old rape victim and we stopped her at the airport from going abroad. Crazy. I mean I dunno what age you are? Q: Nearly 20 . . . Q: The hypocrisy of it. A: Oh, it's just mind-boggling. It's just the absolute absence of compassion. You know the absolute, am, no sense of understanding or where a young woman is coming from or where a middle-aged person or any woman or a couple who might make this decision which isn't an easy decision to make. Nobody celebrates abortion, it's a tragedy but it should be legal and it should be safe. Irish Independent 
