abortion
{  
    June 16 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/what-the-abortion-ship-delivered-26249194.html }
Aine O'Connor says The Aurora has re-ignited a necessary debate in this country WHAT if your mother had aborted you? Is a favourite question for those opposed to abortion. It sums up everything that bothers us about this highly emotional subject. It has to do with motherhood and babies, the very font of all life and the definition of human life. It is also tied into sex and religion. No wonder that it has been, for two decades, Ireland's most active and bitter debate. If the Aurora, the floating abortion clinic currently moored in Dublin, does not perform any abortions or distribute the morning after pill RU-146 it will still have achieved one of its main aims. Having failed to get a permit from the Dutch government before it set sail, the ship may not be able to provide the primary service for which it is designed, but it has reopened the abortion debate. The arrival of the Aurora is timely. The High Court in Belfast has cleared the way for a judicial review of the medical practices which lead to abortion in the North, and the Irish Medical Council recently voted to relax doctors' guidelines on abortion in the Republic, although this too may be subject to judicial review. Since the last abortion referendum the pro-choice groups have sought legislation to enact the X case ruling and the abortion referendum results, while the anti-abortion groups have sought another referendum outlawing abortion completely. The arguments take place against a very stark reality. In 2000, British abortion clinics operated on 6,338 women who gave Irish addresses, almost 122 terminations each week. Pregnancy advice clinics in Ireland have been inundated with the number of women looking to have their pregnancies terminated on the Aurora. One referral clinic saw a quarter of its appointments cancelled by women who hoped to have abortions on the ship rather than in England. When talking of the reasons behind abortion, it is easiest to look at the worst case scenarios of rape, incest and threat of suicide by the mother. It was with these circumstances in mind that a majority of Irish people voted in favour of the 1992 referendums which introduced the right to travel for an abortion, the right to receive information on abortion and on the main issue indicated that the public were in favour of abortions being carried out where there was a threat to the life or health of the mother. The truth, however, is that most abortions are carried out on women who simply do not want to have a baby, women who feel relief and not guilt when their pregnancies are over. They are married, single, any age and any class. The largest group however are single women in their twenties, especially those with a career. There is a correlation between employment for women and a rise in abortion. Women and girls with fewer prospects and fewer expectations are less likely to feel they will lose out by becoming a mother. Our acceptance of single motherhood has almost completely done away with the adoption alternative, making it less acceptable for a woman to go through a pregnancy and hand her baby over. The choice now is, have your baby or have a quiet abortion. We assumed, and it was usually the case, that women gave up children because they had to. We have never allowed for the fact that women sometimes do not want their babies. Abortion makes us face that. We are deeply uncomfortable with the idea of women defying their gender roles. Surveys have shown that we consider women who do not want children, or who put career before children, to be selfish. We don't trust women who don't want babies. We are still uncomfortable with women as sexual beings. An unplanned pregnancy is often considered the price a woman pays for having sex. If she has the baby, she lives with the consequences of her wanton ways. But if she has an abortion, there is a chance that she might just get away with it. Public debate, by its very nature, does not allow for the individual circumstances of each woman. Abortion is often depicted as an easy, irresponsible and selfish option. But it is not an easy option. No woman does it lightly, for no one feels more strongly, good or bad, about the foetus than its mother. It is therefore insulting to suggest that a woman does not know what is best for herself. Public debate also deals with abortion as a theory when it is in fact an eminently practical issue. There are miles between the world of hypothetical abortion, and the reality of a woman finding out that she is pregnant. When a woman becomes pregnant, the father automatically has a choice. If he is aware of having made a child, he can opt in or out of that child's life. His own life may not be altered in any way if he so chooses. Having a baby changes a woman's life forever. She cannot opt out by simply walking away. Abortion essentially gives women the same escape clause as men. One of the most difficult situations arises when a couple conceive a child and the man wants it but the woman does not. Earlier this year in Britain, Stephen Hone mounted a legal challenge to his girlfriend's attempt to abort their child. Should the man have the right to make a woman go through a pregnancy she does not want? Hone got to court too late, the abortion had already been carried out. Scaremongers often suggest that if abortion were legalised, it would open the floodgates. The same argument was used against divorce. MAKING abortion difficult has two effects. It costs approximately £1000 for a woman and her partner to travel to England, get accommodation and have a termination. After such an investment it is harder for a woman to back away, to leave, go home and think about it and come back next week. The organisation required also delays the abortion, meaning that in Europe, Irish women are the most likely to have late term abortions. Backstreet abortions, the only alternative for women in other countries where abortion is illegal, are not a problem in Ireland. Nature is by far the greatest abortionist. Many loved and wanted babies are lost, either because they are imperfect or simply at the whim of nature. But still induced abortion is not a pleasant idea. It has, however, become a fact of life. No method of contraception is infallible so where there is sex, there is pregnancy. And where there is pregnancy, there is, and always has been, abortion. 
