abortion
{  
    February 24 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/dodging-the-pro-abortion-label-26239428.html }
Sir  Why are those who support abortion so anxious not  to be called "pro-abortion"? Surely if one is in favour of legalising abortion and view it as a solution to an unwanted pregnancy, then one is pro-abortion? I urge all those who are in favour of abortion, particularly those of our political representatives who have been forthright on this issue, to declare themselves. It is very important that the alternative visions of an Ireland with abortion and an Ireland without abortion are clearly spelt out. We have been given a clear indication of what is entailed if the referendum proposal is passed: women will never be denied necessary medical treatment, in line with current medical practice, and so their lives will never be at risk. But in tandem with that, the direct and intentional destruction of human life in the womb will be made illegal. Could someone please clarify for me what is entailed if the referendum is not passed? I do not understand why those who support the legalisation of abortion continue to wilfully avoid answering the questions: what status would they accord the unborn child, from both a legal and a conceptual perspective? Has it been the international experience of abortion that if legalised in hard cases only, it then becomes very difficult to prevent abortion on demand? At what stage of pregnancy, if at all, should the child be protected? Should we legislate in line with Britain and introduce abortion in all circumstances up to six months and in case of disability up to birth? And if we do, are we not bound to accept the unavoidable syllogistical conclusion that all unborn life up to six months (or up to birth in case of disability) is not human life but just disposable tissue? What of the profound consequences philosophically for us if we accept that disability de-humanises? Having looked at some of these questions and the inevitable answers, is it any wonder that pro-abortion activists do not want to face them? The whole ambit of what it means to be pregnant, of womanhood, of what is and is not truly pro-woman, of the humanity or otherwise of unborn children, of the respect or otherwise we accord people with disability, of our view of our future this is what we must face and decide upon now. For those of us who genuinely want to protect pregnant women from the hurt of abortion and give the unborn children they carry the right to live, please vote Yes. If this referendum is defeated, then we may never have the opportunity to answer these questions again. Miriam Kelly, D4. Sir Parental Equality has heard from many men whose partners had unilaterally decided on abortions, either against the father's wishes and often without even telling the father about the pregnancy. In these cases the father's role during pregnancy is powerless. The cultural eradication of the rights and value of fatherhood has been contemporaneous with the increase in levels of abortion, increase of births outside of marriage, increase in relationship breakdown, increase in male suicide, increasing drain on the Exchequer through spiralling welfare, health, legal and other costs. This is not progress. Liam O Gogain, Parental Equality. Sir Though a suicide threat must be taken seriously, it can hardly be concluded that another person's life may be sacrificed to deal with it. Aside from the possibility that the threat may still be there afterwards, the logic of so sacrificing to deal with it is highly questionable. Joe Foyle, D6. Sir Professors Anthony Clare and Patricia Casey have rejected the notion that abortion is a treatment for suicide. The groundless fears raised by the No side concerning medicine and abortion do not advance the debate. The real issue in this referendum is about the kind of society we want. If we want a liberal abortion regime, we should vote No. If we want a society which welcomes all human life, regardless of the circumstances, we must vote Yes. Kate O'Brien, Co Kildare. Sir The notion that abortion is a necessary evil to protect the lives of women is simply not true. The psychiatric and medical professions have agreed that there is no evidence to support such a claim. Furthermore they have concluded that abortion itself is a culprit in destroying the lives of women. The aftermath of such a brutal procedure can cause many problems for a woman, both physical and mental, such as depression, infection, nightmares and worst of all, a dead baby. Tom Ascough, Loughlinstown. Sir This is the best we're going to get. If pro-life elements hold out for a wording that changes "implantation" to "conception", we will wait in vain, and meanwhile abortion will become more widely and legally available. As a woman, I have many choices open to me to either avoid, or deal with, an unexpected pregnancy: the child I conceive does not. And we were all mere foetuses once upon a time: I guess we can all be grateful that our mothers didn't choose abortion. This referendum does offer equal billing to both mother and child, despite what some of the more hysterical pro-choice factions are claiming. Maire Garvey, Dun Laoghaire. 
