abortion
{ Independent.ie Newsdesk 
    April 30 2015 02:43 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/irish-news/pro-life-campaigner-asks-public-to-fund-appeal-against-barring-order-31185376.html }
One of Ireland’s most prominent anti-abortion activists is urging the public to fund her fight to overturn a restraining order banning her from approaching a Belfast abortion clinic.  When imposing the restraining order, the judge told Ms Smyth that she could no longer engage in “pestering, interfering or molesting” anyone visiting the centre. The 52-year-old is now seeking to appeal the decision and has asked the public to donate so she can “hire the best legal team in Northern Ireland”. “The truth is this abortion business, who makes millions of pounds every year from killing poor innocent babies, wants to stop and end everything we have worked and sacrificed for,” she said. 
Close
 / “I really have to win my appeal. It would be an absolute tragedy for us all if I was unable to fight this case due to lack of funds.” Writing in a lengthy advert published in the Catholic Voice newspaper, Ms Smyth asked for donations ranging from €5 up to €5000. “In this battle, losing is not an option… but let me assure you, it won’t happen on my watch because Precious Life are never going to give up because we have God Almighty on our side.” “Every gift of €5 or €10 will really benefit our work. Or could you pledge €50… or as much as €100… or possibly even €500 or €1000? Or are you that person who could donate €5000 or more.” Following five court appearances last year, the pro-life campaigner was sentenced to 100 hours of community service, given a five year restraining order, and told to pay £2,000 (€2750) in compensation to Ms Purvis. During the case, which had been dogged by delays, the mother-of-four, and grandmother-of-three, consistently denied harassing anyone visiting the Belfast clinic. The Marie Stopes centre has been picketed frequently by Precious Life and other anti-abortion groups since it opened two years ago. However the protests escalation last January with women arriving for appointments in tears, claiming they had been followed and shouted at as they approached the centre. Online Editors 
