abortion
{  
    September 12 2011 03:48 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/health/new-studies-highlight-the-trauma-of-abortion-26770537.html }
Abortion is always controversial and divisive, no matter what country debates the issue. It has recently been debated in a minor way in Britain with proposals to make independent pre-abortion counselling available for those who wish it. It was proposed, unsuccessfully, to remove it from the abortion providers such as Marie Stopes International and other organisations who may have a financial interest in promoting abortion. On the research front, a new study on the psychological effects of induced abortion has recently been published in the 'British Journal of Psychiatry'. This is a prestigious and highly respected international journal, with a high-impact factor. It is peer reviewed, meaning that all submitted scientific papers are independently assessed by at least two experts in that particular area of research. While the journal is published by the Royal College of Psychiatrists in London, it is independent editorially, so scientific papers that the journal publishes are not endorsed by the college. Some commentators have erroneously stated that this particular study was endorsed by the college. This study was authored by Priscilla Coleman, Professor of Human Development and Family Studies at Bowling Green State University, Ohio. It is what is termed a meta-analysis. This is a technique in which already-published studies, meeting certain quality criteria -- for example, employment -- are selected and the statistical results are extracted from each one and pooled. They are then combined to provide a composite quantitative figure of the effect of the intervention in question -- in this case it was the effect of abortion on the mental health of women. The advantage of this technique is that when individual studies show different results it is confusing and difficult to get a sense of the overall effect. Standard review papers often selectively choose and report studies that suit the position of the author or underplay studies with contrasting findings. So a meta-analysis uses the results to see whether they are positive or negative, provided the quality of the study is of a high order. Because the number of subjects in individual studies is often not very large, combining studies in this way has the benefit of providing larger samples.  Depression In this instance the participants totalled over 850,000 adult women, with over 163,000 having had abortions. The remainder comprised those who were never pregnant or who had given birth. The study examined the impact of abortion on anxiety, depression, suicidal behaviour and substance misuse. It also examined the mental health impact when an unwanted pregnancy ended either in abortion or in birth. The reason for this evaluation is that many jurisdictions, such as Britain and New Zealand, have abortion laws that allow for termination of pregnancy when the risk posed to the mother's mental health is greater if the pregnancy continues than if she has an abortion. Having an unwanted pregnancy that results in the delivery of a baby is considered an exemplar, par excellence, of this. In Britain this is the ground under which over 90pc of abortions are performed, since many women believe that terminating a pregnancy will reduce the resultant mental health risk associated with giving birth. Furthermore, Coleman identified an 81pc increase in the risk in all mental health disorders among those having abortion. Separate effects were calculated for other conditions and they all revealed an increased risk after abortion of 34pc for anxiety disorders, 37pc for depression, 110pc for alcohol use/abuse, 155pc for suicidal behaviour and 220pc for marijuana use/abuse. Eight studies were identified that examined the mental health effect when an unwanted pregnancy was either aborted or delivered. And even then the effect was a 55pc increase in the risk of mental health problems after abortion. This result will surprise many since it has been assumed by many legislators that giving birth to a baby when it was "unwanted" would be devastating for the woman. Coleman also found that the effect of abortion was to increase the overall incidence of mental health problems by 10pc. It is important to point out that this study does not imply that all women are damaged psychologically by abortion. Yet some pro-choice commentators say that the feelings of regret and sadness described after abortion are transient. This study demonstrates that what they are experiencing is mental illness. This is the first study of its kind in the world literature and it will generate anger, debate and controversy. Other similar studies will undoubtedly follow. Their impact could be enormous both in relation to the information that should be provided to women seeking abortions but even altering the grounds for abortion in nearby countries. Health & Living 
