abortion
{ Antonia Leslie 
    July 22 2006 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/i-have-had-two-abortions-and-i-am-still-in-favour-of-the-right-to-choose-26414407.html }
ON one level I can totally understand the anti-abortion argument. But life and the creation of life ain't that simple. By being pro-choice, it does not mean I think that abortion is a great thing. It's not. But, having been in the situation where I had to make this choice more then once in my life, I understand that in some cases finding oneself pregnant can be an overwhelm ON one level I can totally understand the anti-abortion argument. But life and the creation of life ain't that simple. By being pro-choice, it does not mean I think that abortion is a great thing. It's not. But, having been in the situation where I had to make this choice more then once in my life, I understand that in some cases finding oneself pregnant can be an overwhelming and terrifying experience. The basic human instincts of survival and survival of oneself first and foremost are still the main forces that drive the consciousness. When we give birth we chemically bond and the self-survivalinstinct gives way to the instinct to protect the child first and foremost. A woman who has already aborted and gone on to have a child or has a pre-existing child or children before she chooses to discontinue an unplanned pregnancy would instinctually lay down her life for any living child she had or would have. Yet in the first few weeks of pregnancy the same woman would abort if she didn't feel able for the huge task of rearing and protecting her unborn child. Why is this, I wonder? I was pregnant when I was 18, I lived in Paris and I was in a relationship with the father who had a successful career, good money, and would have supported me and the child, but I didn't want to become a mother at this point in my life. I knew that if I did, I would be a dedicated mother but I felt I hadn't even begun to live my life with just myself to be responsible for. It was a purely self-serving decision to discontinue the pregnancy, yet I've never regretted the decision I made. I was six weeks pregnant when I discovered that I was, and eight weeks pregnant when I had the abortion. When I woke up from the anaesthetic all I felt was overwhelming relief. It was done on the National Health and counselling was practical and the main thing was to get it done as quickly as possible as abortions are not permitted after the 12th week in France. Something that I totally agree with. I'm not sure that I could have been so cold and clinical about it even in the 12th week. I certainly would not have aborted after the 12th week, then or now. But that's me; I have no right to decide how or when another woman makes her decision. I had an abortion again much more recently. It was three years after my daughter was born. I had broken up with her father and I had just broken up with my subsequent partner and was in a place where I could not imagine dedicating as much time and energy to another child, as the one I had took up everything and my life outside of her was tumultuous and my maternal instincts were to the child I had in this world and myself. Right or wrong this is how it was. My survival instinct to protect myself and my child overrode the right of the six-week embryo that was inside my womb. The Marie Stopes Centre in Blessington Street offered professional counselling and I travelled to England the following week. I could not keep this baby, give birth and give it up for adoption. I am too self-centred and I know how feelings grow as the pregnancy goes on. I travelled to the Ealing Clinic in London to have the abortion and when I woke from the anaesthetic, once again, the only feeling I had was of tremendous relief. Callous? Maybe. A murderer? Maybe. After my experience in Ealing, all I wanted to do was get back to my living child and love her and be the dedicated mother I feel I am to her. So the instinctive mothering chemicals allow us, as mothers, to be selective. So, if as the God-fearing ones believe, that God created us in his/her image, then believe me, God is highly selective as to who has the right to life and when this life begins and ends. I believe God created woman thelife-bearer with the same rights of selection. When I arrived at the gates of the Ealing Clinic there was a host of pro-life campaigners gathered at the gate. My best friend, who had come with me for support, grabbed my arm and said, "Oh God! Are you all right?" I was fine, I reassured her. And I was. I had no problem with these people being here, as they believe with all their hearts that they are on a mission to save the unborn, and a very noble mission it is. They have every right to try and dissuade me. I accepted the leaflet they gave me, and promised to read it, which I did, yet explained to them that I'd made up my mind and nothing on earth could change it at this point. When I was waiting to go to the theatre I read the leaflet as I promised the man who handed it to me. The first page was information that I already knew. Nine weeks into a pregnancy, the baby can feel pain. I thought about this and still did not waver on my decision to be where I was. How can this be? How can I, already a mother, feel no emotion when deciding to end a growing life inside me? I was seven weeks pregnant at that point and logically thought, "Well, it can't feel pain and although there are brain waves I doubt there is much notable consciousness and with the suction method, death will be instantaneous." Maybe this was all to ease my conscience, my way of justifying infanticide. It is argued that life is life and life is present from the day of conception, but I beg to differ. I believe, and this is purely my point of view, that not much consciousness is present up to eight weeks. All the more reason to legislate for abortion here because, as we know, more then 7,000 women travel to England a year to have abortions. There are, of course, also women who can't afford to travel to England and try and abort themselves. I have two friends who, in the distant past, could not afford to go and told no one till after. One did it successfully at home with an encyclopedia for guidance and a speculum and a saline solution. The other did it very unsuccessfully with a bottle of vodka to quell the pain and a bic pen in place of the knitting needle. She nearly bled to death; she only admitted what she'd done afterwards when I went to see her in hospital. It was a rural hospital and they seemed used to such events. Whether it is legal or illegal some women will choose abortion, so the Government needs to face up to this fact and to its responsibility to provide a safe, pain-free system of free legal abortion in this country. Sticking its head in the sand and pretending it's not happening does not help anyone and it only delays many of the women who do eventually travel to the UK so the procedure is performed in later weeks. England is one of the few countries in the world where abortion may be carried out upto 24 weeks. Back in Ealing, reading the pro-life leaflet, I still felt that this was a perfectly valid piece of literature and turned to the second page where I soon changed my mind. Here it lost me completely; here it informed me that the soul of the foetus, as it was unbaptised, would not be able to enter heaven. "Ah f**k right off," I hissed out loud. I chucked the leaflet in the bin, where it rightly belonged. But it made me think. Although there are many women involved in the pro-life campaign, there seem to be far more men. Outside the clinic there were only men. Right-wing Christian fundamentalist men. Are men so envious of the fact that it is woman who ultimately creates life that they have created a big male God figure to punish and control women through shame and subjugation? We will take away her power to create life at will, by taking away her choice? She will bear us sons when and where we say so and we'll tell her that only God can decide when she can or cannot create or destroy the life inside her? This same God who causes women to miscarry at random. Who, even in the Bible, demanded blood sacrifice of children, sent the Israelites to conquer Simon and the Amorites, by taking his towns and killing every man woman and child. Who even today allows a child to die of hungerevery seven seconds, and you try and tell me that He then goes on to apparently condemn unbaptised dead babies, who when being aborted have no choice in the matter. Have you ever noticed how so many pro-lifers, especiallyin America, are also so pro death penalty? In the same week recently that Aisling Riordan went under cover, to the Alpha Office for "All options counselling" and unveiled a terrible manipulation in disguise by pro-lifers, the TV series ER had a story coincidently about the same subject. 'God versus Abortion' was the tale of a teenage girl who had been raped while drunk and unconscious at a school party. She became pregnant, and had very Christian parents who were appalled at the thought of an abortion and she seemed too scared to disagree with them. "Why punish the child for the way it was conceived?" they say. Very valid point, but why punish their living child also? The doctor dealing with her is a Catholic and goes with the will of her parents at first, but when he later discovers how terrified and distressed the young girl is to continue with the pregnancy he goes to her in secret and gives her some speculum device with a hormone or chemical gel. He tells her that when she goes home, if she places this inside her cervix, she will in all probability miscarry within a few days. "But won't that anger God?" she asks. "No," the Catholic doctor replies. "It's simply giving God a chance to reconsider." 
