abortion
{ Wendy Grace 
    September 23 2018 05:30 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/columnists/no-money-to-be-had-except-for-abortions-37344808.html }
The health service is at breaking point. With crises and misery in the HSE, Simon Harris should be ashamed. Waiting lists continue to spiral. Every day there are heart-wrenching examples of failure. The number of children waiting more than 18 months for vital medical intervention rose above 10,000 for the first time this year. In August, the numbers of vulnerable patients languishing on  hospital trolleys for hours was also the worst on record, and recently the IMO described hospital emergency departments as "death zones" due to overcrowding. Yet last week Simon Harris's priority was tweeting a video of himself smiling as he broke the news that the Eighth Amendment had just been officially repealed after President Michael D Higgins signed the Bill to bring it about. Whatever is your opinion on abortion, that's hardly something for a minister for health to be giddy about. This is the same Simon Harris who, in 2011, courted the pro-life vote saying: "If elected to the Dail, I will oppose any legislation to introduce abortion in Ireland." It's not hard to see evidence of realpolitik in his behaviour. His commitment to a liberal abortion regime is meticulously crafted. Not long after his pro-life convictions were espoused, Harris converted to the Government's 2013 abortion proposal, and political advancement followed. For the moment, Simon Harris can get away with pretty much anything as long as he keeps pushing abortion. Still donning the "Together for Yes" avatar on his Twitter handle is a great distraction from the dismal job he is doing as Minister for Health. He will get likes and backslapping from his groupies, while people are dying in our hospitals and children on waiting lists suffer. Rather than demanding answers on why patients are dying en route from Waterford to Cork Hospital because the Government won't provide cardiac care out of hours, headlines were focused on the news that abortions will be free. So for a life-ending, elective, non medically necessary procedure, cost "won't be a barrier" but when it comes to 25 children who suffer with Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) and a life-saving drug they need, well, this time, cost is a barrier. I imagine most people would rather their taxes be spent on saving the lives of sick children or making sure cancer patients don't have to spend €75 every time they need chemotherapy, than on free abortions. We keep being touted the same euphemisms of "care" and "compassion" to mask the grim reality of abortion. Apparently it means the State is now "looking after" women. I'm not sure those who have been dragged through the courts while dying of cervical cancer or the almost 30,000 women, some waiting up to a year for gynaecological checks would agree. Hard questions continue to be avoided, such as how much providing abortion will cost the taxpayer? Where are the extra staff and beds needed going to come from? How will the babies' bodies be disposed of - as mere hospital waste? Will, as happened in other jurisdictions, babies' body parts be harvested and sold? Will compensation be paid to women suffering post-abortion trauma? Those who voted Yes reluctantly under the pretence the legislation would be restrictive, will no doubt be disturbed by some of the discussions during the Oireachtas Health Committee hearings last week. The lid was lifted on the misinformation and lies the 'Yes' campaign peddled in order to convince undecided voters. We were told abortions won't increase. Now it's admitted that numbers similar to Scotland could be expected, that's about three times our current rate, nearly 10,000 extra abortions annually. Politicians and journalists failed abysmally to ask about the impact this legislation would have on hospital resources. Now medical professionals say abortion being provided in many cases (around 10pc) will require surgical intervention, already overstretched midwives, doctors, theatre spaces will be strained further, and those waiting lists for women, who actually need a medically necessary intervention will continue to grow. Not even 24 hours after the Bill was signed to delete the Eighth Amendment, already there was pressure to change the three-day waiting period, a time you would hope where women would be offered support and counselling before making an irrevocable, life-changing decision. During the committee hearings, Dr Peter Boylan advocated scrapping the waiting period, yet during the referendum campaign he said it was an important part of the legislation "which will allow women a time to reflect whether or not they want to proceed with the termination. And that is to be welcomed". The truth is out now your vote has been cast. One-third of the Irish electorate who voted to retain the Eighth Amendment had no meaningful political or media representation: a chilling indictment of our democracy. Now freedom of conscience is under attack. Minister Harris is insisting GPs be the primary providers of abortion, even though they were not consulted. The hypocrisy is breathtaking, those who chanted "respect" and "choice" want doctors who don't fall in line to face criminal sanction. An online survey of nearly 1,000 registered GPs carried out on GPBuddy.ie found that 75pc of those who took part were opposed to a GP-led abortion service.  Simon Harris is demanding that doctors set aside their independent clinical judgments about what is in the best interest of the patient. Doctors will have to refer women for abortions and become a cog in the machinery of ensuring an abortion takes place. In society saturated with media and information, where there are a myriad ways to access knowledge about available abortion services, this is perverse and unnecessary.  I am not sure how I will explain to my son that many of his peers are "missing" because of a law the Irish people voted for; that if we end up like many other countries, every fourth chair in his classroom does not have a unique and unrepeatable person sitting in it because "choice" trumped everything. It's appalling that those who need life-saving medical treatments can't access help. If you want to keep your baby, cost may be a barrier, yet if you want an abortion that has nothing to do with healthcare, the money is available and you have the minister's ear. Sunday Independent 
