abortion
{  
    March 03 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/letters/pro-abortion-side-will-be-voting-no-26239592.html }
Sir  There has been a lot of talk about confusion in the course of the abortion referendum debate. It is worth noting  that this confusion is on one side only, the pro-life side. There is no confusion amongst those who are pro-abortion. They are voting No. I will be voting Yes b Sir There has been a lot of talk about confusion in the course of the abortion referendum debate. It is worth noting that this confusion is on one side only, the pro-life side. There is no confusion amongst those who are pro-abortion. They are voting No. I will be voting Yes because I am against abortion. Pat Gill, Limerick. * Sir Yes, the abortion issue seems confusing. Yes, it seems difficult to decide what is best for a safe, caring society where women and their babies receive the best care they need. Voting Yes, however, will ensure this. Some people worry that if they vote Yes, women will not receive necessary medical attention to keep them alive. Irish doctors have never refused a woman any vital treatment on the grounds that she is pregnant, and will never. In ectopic pregnancies, for example, it's a sad fact that the baby will die, but this is not the same as abortion and a doctor would never refuse to treat the woman. Ireland, a country historically without abortion, has been proven to be one of the safest countries in the world to be pregnant and have a baby. Aoife O'Meara, Co Laois. * Sir Fine Gael has made it clear that if this referendum is not passed, it intends to legislate to give effect to the X case judgment. The Labour Party has indicated that it would put proposals to its delegate conference next year to legalise abortion in circumstances going beyond what X required. An Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern, has made it clear that this will be the last attempt his party makes to roll back the X case. It does not take an astute political analyst to see that in all likelihood the rejection of the abortion amendment before us would result in legislation permitting direct abortion on grounds of suicide. Yet as Professors Anthony Clare and Patricia Casey have publicly attested, there is no psychiatric justification for abortion, and the effect of the X case, if it becomes legal practice, will be to compromise the psychiatric profession hopelessly, as psychiatrists are asked to give evidence to justify the choice to abort a child. More important, legislation for abortion on grounds of suicide will be open to endemic abuses. In all likelihood, psychiatric "evidence" would provide a pseudo-scientific rationale for social abortions. The choice, then, is quite stark: vote No and we will have direct abortion throughout pregnancy in cases where there is a threat of suicide. Vote Yes and pregnant women in this country will continue to receive all necessary medical treatment, but the back door to abortion on demand will be closed. David Thunder, Indiana. * Sir As far as I am concerned, we now face a unique crossroad decision upon which part of the future well-being of Irish family life rests. We are being asked to choose Yes, and value each member of every Irish family by asking for full legal protection for all infants in their mother's womb, or we vote No to that protection. It's obvious we should give a resounding Yes to this 25th Amendment to our Constitution. Yes, the amendment is not the ideal that many of us looked for, but let's set a standard that other world governments can look up to, in their fight for a "culture of life" in their societies. Gerard O'Connor, Croom. * Sir Life is energy. Fertilisation takes place and life occurs immediately the embryo is infused with that living energy during the woman's fertile period; not up to eight days later when the egg is implanted in the womb. A vote on abortion is not just about destroying the life of a body or foetus (in utero), it is also about destroying "life" (in vitro). Hence the ambiguity in the proposed amendment to the Contraception Bill from "in vitro" to "in utero" (on implantation in the womb), while telling us, at the same time, that the original amendment is still enshrined in Article 43:3 of the Constitution. Thus, this leaves open the possibility of the legalised killing of, or interference with, the fertilised live embryo. Similarly, the suicide issue could never be a psychiatric one, since nobody, in any state of mind, should be given the right to take the life of another human being deliberately, least of all that of a defenceless unborn child. And the very same applies with "the right to choose"! James A Gleeson, Thurles. * Sir Fortunately the full text of the Protection of Human Life in Pregnancy Act is now becoming more widely available. The bill says: "No person shall carry out or effect an abortion in the State"; now that should impel people who value the protection of life at all stages to vote Yes as a matter of urgency, and those who support abortion to go the opposite way. Anyone who is inclined therefore to vote Yes but is worried about mothers getting appropriate treatment in life-threatening cases should read section 1 (2), where such "medical procedures" are allowed, but such procedures must also have "regard to the need to preserve unborn human life". In other words, the best possible efforts to keep mother and baby alive and well, as has always been done in Ireland, giving us one of the best maternal mortality rates in the world. Brendan O'Regan, Arklow, Co Wicklow. 
