abortion
{ Martina Devlin 
    May 14 2007 05:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/im-afraid-we-need-another-abortion-referendum--26289877.html }
MY heart sinks as I write this but there's no way round it: we need another abortion referendum. It's an appalling prospect, isn't it? An abortion referendum is the single most divisive subject you can put before the public. We're apathetic about any number of issues. We're indifferent to corruption in our politicians, which has the potential to impact on our lives rather more than whether or not a girl has a baby. Irregular payments? Planning abuses? Tax loopholes which allow the rich to grow richer without contributing to the Exchequer? Ah, we shrug, sure that's the way of it. But nothing gets certain sectors of our society as riled up as the right-to-life question. I'm cringing at the prospect of a re-run of all those placards with bleeding foetuses, and parents waving cute babies in the air on pro-life rallies. But we must have clarity on abortion. Currently its a hopeless muddle (we knew that but pretended not to notice) and it has taken a 17-year-old girl to highlight the shambles. Miss D is four months pregnant with a child who has a major part of its brain missing and cannot survive outside the womb, according to doctors. Naturally, she is distressed. She wants an abortion and her boyfriend supports her in this step, but the decision isn't theirs to make. Abortion is not legal in Ireland, although the law says we have freedom to travel abroad for abortions and a right to information about those services. However, this girl is a minor and in care, and consequently needs the State's permission to proceed. So the matter has been bounced into court. In the X case, the Supreme Court ruled that where there is a threat to a mother-to-be's life from her pregnancy - in that instance a 14-year-old girl was suicidal - she has a right to an abortion. This means the law is not absolute when it says abortion is illegal. On the contrary, it is legal under particular circumstances. Take that Supreme Court decision to its logical conclusion and it must surely be lawful to carry out abortions under those pre-determined conditions in Ireland. However, we have adopted a Pontius Pilate approach and let England do our dirty work. Who would dare be a doctor carrying out abortions here? Can you imagine the frenzy of demonstrations outside their door? They would need garda protection. Who would want to be the health minister setting up those abortion facilities? They would never be re-elected. Nevertheless, the highest court in the land did not say suicidal mothers-to-be have a right to travel outside the jurisdiction for an abortion. It said they have a right to an abortion. Full stop. Under the constitution, the unborn have equal rights to life as mothers do - a point emphasised in the D case yesterday when the judge directed that the 17-year-old's unborn baby should have legal representation. This seems fair. What does not seem either fair or democratic is that the courts are once again obliged to decide where we stand on abortion, specifically regarding the fate of a teenager carrying a child with no prospect of survival. After the X case judgment, normal procedure would have been for the legislature to clarify the parameters of the court's decision. But the politicians were still terrified to tackle it because hot potatoes don't come any hotter. Their cowardice has contributed to this latest exercise in cruelty, where a young girl is being put through the mill at the Four Courts. If we carry on the way we are going, judges could be asked to rule piecemeal on every possible set of circumstances where abortion may be permissible. Next up: how about a mother carrying a child with serious but not fatal health problems? It's not on. A referendum is the cleanest, fairest solution. And afterwards the will of the people must be translated into legislation. It's no secret there are two extremes of opinion: those who think abortion is never justifiable and those who believe abortion should be available on demand. But in the middle, I suspect there is a broad swathe of opinion in favour of limited abortion in certain situations. We should set about establishing if this is the case, and what those conditions might be. Rape, for example. Would we force a rape victim to have a baby? What about a child of 12 or 13, would we oblige her to see a pregnancy through to the end? I suppose there will always be cases which are not open and shut. Take a couple who learn the baby they are expecting will have a raft of special needs, and who feel they can't carry that burden. Not everyone is able for such a challenging life. Attitude The State isn't particularly generous or supportive when it comes to helping the parents of such children, so why should the State have a say in determining their future? The churches should stay out of it too, and we're too quick to resort to the courts. In such a state of affairs, the medical profession ought to be the final arbiter of whether a mother-to-be has an abortion. And where it is felt she should, we must let it happen here. If it is accepted in law that conditions exist under which abortion is allowable, then it should be carried out in Ireland. Not in England. Otherwise the law is a hypocrite. The current attitude of "not in my backyard but here's a plane ticket" has gone on long enough. www.martinadevlin.com 
