abortion
{ Eilis O'Hanlon 
    May 19 2013 03:05 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/eilis-ohanlon-dynamic-of-abortion-debate-has-shifted-as-new-consensus-tentatively-emerges-29278128.html }
Abortion is once again dividing the nation. Or so we're led to believe. What this latest poll actually shows is that, far from being riven down the middle on this issue, there is now a growing consensus amongst the Irish public on most of the issues. A very small minority (eight per cent) still opposes abortion in the most extreme cases, where there is a threat to the mother's life, but most of us have concluded that abortion should be available if necessary and are fairly clear what those circumstances should be. If a woman has been raped, 71 per cent think that she should be able to have an abortion. Where there is a serious medical risk to the life of the mother other than the threat of suicide, 78 per cent are in favour of abortion being available. Where there is a long-term risk to the health of the mother, the numbers drop slightly but only to 69 per cent in favour, still a clear majority. In that sense, the debate has decisively shifted. Ireland is never going back to a situation where opposition to abortion on the grounds of rape and a risk to the life and health of women could command widespread support. Likewise, when it comes to allowing abortion for non-specified "other reasons", there may be a broader divide of feelings on the matter – possibly reflecting the fact that canny poll respondents want to know precisely what these other reasons might be before committing themselves – but what is undeniable is that only 28 per cent of people think abortion is definitely acceptable in such circumstances, with 45 per cent regarding it as unacceptable. If the figures had to be summed up, what they show is that Ireland remains a country that does not regard abortion lightly but is realistic and compassionate about allowing it to be carried out where a mother's well-being is clearly in danger. The one exception to this pattern of clarity is, ironically, the one area on which the Government has opted to legislate – that of allowing abortion where there is a threat of suicide from the mother. There is a majority in favour – and the tide of opinion is running inexorably in a pro-choice direction with, as would be expected, highest support amongst those in their mid-twenties to mid-thirties, and in urban areas, especially Dublin, where the population increasingly lives. But the argument for abortion in cases of suicide has not been won decisively yet. Pro-lifers would certainly be happy to face a referendum with only 53 per cent of people saying they are in favour of allowing pregnant women who claim to be suicidal to have an abortion (which may explain why the Government is determined that the pro-lifers won't get another constitutional vote on the issue). The figures suggest that, in the wake of the death of Savita Halappanavar, Fine Gael has allowed itself to become diverted, not into copperfastening what would be widely supported measures to save women's lives, but instead into a much more contentious area, all because of Labour's determination to legislate for suicide in line with the X Case. Of all parties, it is Labour that wants this most fervently, with 70 per cent of its voters in this poll expressing support for the suicide threat as grounds for abortion. By contrast, Fine Gael voters express the highest levels of opposition to this measure, with 31 per cent coming out against it. The Taoiseach has the Supreme Court judgement on the X Case to bolster his line, and he'll have his way, but no party can afford to be complacent when one-third of its voters are fundamentally disconnected from the official line on a key issue. If that discontent is galvanised, it could cause Fine Gael significant trouble. Politics aside, what was equally interesting to look for in this new poll was what it said about the male/ female divide on abortion. It's become a common trope amongst pro-choice advocates to criticise men who take a firm pro-life stance and to suggest that the debate would be entirely different if it was left to women alone. This always seemed an odd assertion, insulting even, given that there are so many prominent and articulate female voices in the pro-life movement, but what do the figures actually show? By and large, that there is no great difference between Irish men and Irish women when it comes to abortion. There are slightly more women in favour of allowing the threat of suicide as the grounds of abortion (54 per cent, as against 52 per cent of men); but by the same token, there are more women opposed to the same measure (23 per cent of women are against it, as opposed to 22 per cent of men). When it comes to risks to the long-term health of the mother, there are, yes, fewer women than men opposed to abortion in such circumstances, but again it's a very slight difference (11 per cent of women and 12 per cent of men). The greatest statistical difference between the sexes only comes in cases "where the mother decides to have an abortion for other reasons" – and here it is women, interestingly, who are most strongly opposed, with 47 per cent saying no, compared to 44 per cent of men. In short, this poll simply does not confirm the claim that opposition to abortion in Ireland is being driven or directed by big bad men, and it would be a relief if that rather tired and tiresome, not to say sexist, cliche was dropped at least. One final observation which can be drawn from these findings: there is a higher than usual number of people either answering "don't know" or "it depends" to the various questions. It suggests that many of us do not wish to get involved in this debate, so fractious has it become, or else are genuinely conflicted in our feelings about abortion. There is merit and silliness on both sides of the argument. With the moral enormity of the issues at stake, "don't know" is not a dishonour-able place to find oneself. Irish Independent 
