abortion
{  
    February 03 2013 04:27 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/lifestyle/lucinda-i-love-my-job-but-i-dont-want-to-be-one-of-those-tds-who-hangs-around-forever-29046036.html }
She's barely 33, but the country's youngest minister has already been tipped as the next leader of Fine Gael and the country's first female Taoiseach. Lucinda Creighton's pro-life position could even topple the Coalition as she shores up support among back-bench TDs who feel emboldened by her unstinting stance on an issue close to many of their hearts. But this week, in an exclusive interview with the Irish Independent, the Minister of State for European Affairs said that her future in politics was by no means set in stone, and that she may even quit the profession altogether. As she sat nursing an Americano in the Merrion Hotel, her phone hopping but politely ignored and a diary bursting with appointments, she spoke openly about her plans to leave political life and "do something completely different". Be that motherhood, going back to the law or joining the show-jumping circuit is anyone's guess but the young barrister is certain that becoming a career politician is not for her. "I don't want to be one of those politicians who hangs around forever and ever just to hold onto a seat," she says. "We need fluidity and movement in politics. We need fresh thinking. I'll be there for as long as I can make a contribution on some of the questions at the moment like abortion and trying to restore our country's sovereignty, but I would consider going back to law or doing something totally different. "You should never see politics as an end in itself. If your only concern in political life is promotion, getting a job or clinging onto a job, then you shouldn't be there. It's always good to think that some day next month, next year or five years, you won't be in politics." Her face lights up when she talks about the first love of her life. Long before she entered law and Leinster House, she was on her way to becoming a successful young rider. Her Mayo childhood was steeped in show-jumping, but like many young horsewomen, when the books took over, her passion for ponies had to take a back seat. She hoped some day to take it up again, and after falling for a Cork farmer who also shared her equine interest – now her husband, Senator Paul Bradford –  it wasn't long before she was back in her jodhpurs and chaps in the thick of the stable yard. Today, she says she feels blessed that some of her days begin on a mountain overlooking the city, taking her treasured mare for a ride in the winter dawn. It's a sign of the Dublin TD's measured approach to her job. Her portfolio is perhaps the busiest of any in Government. Since Ireland took over the presidency of the EU at the start of the year, she has had countless extra duties to perform, looking after visiting delegations, attending functions and chairing meetings. "Every week, I am taking somewhere between six and eight flights. It is physically tiring but very stimulating. I feel more motivated than ever before in politics because I'm at the coalface and feel I am contributing. "When you're in the thick of it, you run on adrenalin. I don't feel tired or run-down when I'm in meetings but when the weekend comes, it really hits you like a train." But she does feel that progress is being made. "In Europe, there is a total change in people's view of Ireland. When the economy collapsed between 2008 and 2010, there was an impression that Ireland had gone from being this modern roaring economy to a basket case. That impression lasted quite a while but I think we've gotten over it now. "The mood is very positive for Ireland. I hear admiration for the difficult decisions we have taken all the time. "There is a real admiration for what Irish people have done. People know that we have injected the equivalent of 40pc of our GDP into our banks. They know that we have undergone massive spending cuts, tax increases, that people have lost their jobs. "What marks Ireland out is that they see us getting on with it, trying to make reforms in our economy and trying to create a better future for ourselves. We're not wallowing. We're saying we need a solution. We need to find a way out. Most of that is down to ourselves and the efforts we have made." On the corridors of power, her deeply-held stance on abortion has become an unwelcome distraction in Cabinet, and an impending danger to Enda Kenny, who has managed to convert some pro-life party colleagues into accepting abortion legislation but knows he has little hope of persuading the one he spends most time with. Her dogged belief that a little abortion always leads to a lot is shared by a small but growing number of Fine Gael backbenchers, who observed the Health Committee hearings on the subject and are convinced that legalising for suicidal feelings is unworkable and medically dubious. Some hold the view that the tragic death of Savita Halappanavar in Galway was probably more to do with the multi-resistant E Coli bug that killed her than any legal ban on abortion and that the media's reporting of the case caused widespread public confusion. From the Taoiseach's perspective, it doesn't help that he is up against an attractive young woman with a sharp legal brain and a powerbase in the country's most liberal constituency or the fact that she has already publicly defied him by joining the 2010 heave against his leadership. But she says that particular fracture in their relationship is irrelevant. "We get on really well actually. My office is on the floor beneath his and we travel together a lot. He is great company and of course we share the Mayo connection." As the abortion controversy becomes more contentious, Creighton has been branded by extremists on both sides. "Some call me a Catholic fundamentalist. I think that's quite funny. I'm far from it. For me, abortion has nothing to do with religion. It's a question of basic human rights and standing up for a society that values all human beings equally, including babies waiting to be born. Maybe many Catholics share that view too, but so do many Muslims, atheists and Presbyterians." But Creighton was not always opposed to abortion. Her pro-life views developed while she was studying law at university, but it was the experience of women she knew who had terminations which radically changed her mind. "I didn't think very deeply about it until I was in college. Sometimes it is almost like 'here is the common view' and 'this is how you should think'. I wasn't facing up to the fact that it involves the termination of life. "When I was in my early 20s, I started to think about it a lot more. I know of people who have had abortions. That coloured my view of the world too. They were very damaged by it and that caused me to stop and think. The more I thought and read about it, ultimately over time, I completely changed my view." Creighton is now convinced any government proposal to legislate on the grounds of suicide is flawed and a breach of best medical practice. "The X Case brought in this issue of suicide as a grounds for abortion. I think that's very tenuous. The psychiatrists who came before the Health Committee are the only people who are in a position to really speak with any expertise on the specific question of whether abortion is ever necessary to prevent a suicide. Their answer was a resounding no. That is very conclusive as far as I am concerned and draws a line under the issue. We must be guided by their expert evidence." But Creighton also believes Ireland cannot ignore the experience of other countries. "In every jurisdiction where it has been introduced, limited abortion has invariably become a liberal regime. Is that what we want for Ireland because that is what we are talking about? "In Britain, we know a huge number of Down Syndrome babies are aborted now. I find that just incomprehensible. The idea that we have some sort of a self-selection process as humans is really alarming. I would hate to think there are some people in Irish society who would set out with that goal in mind. This is a country that prides itself on embracing people with all sorts of intellectual and physical disabilities. "The woman at the centre of the Roe V Wade case, which paved the way for abortion-on-demand in America, is now an anti-abortion campaigner because of the fact that she was so traumatised after her abortion. Miss C in Ireland is also someone who has given an account of numerous suicide attempts after her abortion. Are we only interested in one side of the debate or are we going to look at the huge trauma that has been inflicted on women who have had abortions?" Creighton also rejects the notion that abortion has anything to do with women's rights. "If the height of our ambition for the women's equality agenda in this country is to introduce abortion, what does that say about us? Women's participation in public life, in politics, in business, in all aspects of society, that to me is a much more important aspiration. "There is nothing progressive or modern about abortion. You just have to look at the fact that the vast majority of babies aborted around the world are girls because they are not seen to be of as much social and economic advantage as male babies. You don't hear the so-called feminists jumping up and down about that." But is the deputy willing to jump if legislation she disagrees with goes ahead? She's making no threats or commitments for now. "I will continue to work in government to make sure we get this right," she says. "If you take a decision on a tax measure or a spending cut, and you get it wrong, you can change it very easily. Something like this is much more fundamental. This is a decision that we will not be able to change or roll back and it will have implications for generations to come." Irish Independent 
