abortion
{ Michael Gottstein<br>Sheep 
    September 05 2005 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/business/farming/time-to-vaccinate-for-toxoplasma-in-sheep-25964877.html }
EVERY year we come across farmers who have had problems with ewes aborting lambs. Most flocks will have a small percentage of ewes slip lambs every year. There are a variety of causes that can be blamed for this, and in general it is nothing to worry about. A problem arises when more than "a few" ewes start to abort. I have come across farms where over 50pc of the lamb crop was lost. The first step in addressing the abortion problem will be to send samples of aborted lambs, afterbirth and blood samples from the affected ewes to the laboratory for analysis. If this important step is missed, you won't know the causal agent. There are lots of different organisms that can cause abortion in sheep. The most common cause is Toxoplasma, which is a tiny single celled parasite. This is a zoonotic condition and can infect humans, therefore care must be taken at lambing time that pregnant women and people with poor immune systems do not come in contact with the bug. Toxoplasma is spread in the main by cats. The spread of Toxoplasma starts when a cat becomes infected after eating infected vermin. The cats in turn shed very large numbers of Toxoplasma eggs in their faeces over a period of time. Older cats will be immune to the disease so it is young cats that pose the biggest risk. Once the eggs are shed they can survive for long periods of time. Ewes will become infected with Toxoplasma by coming in contact with contaminated feed, bedding or pasture. With Toxoplasma the severity of the abortion 'storm' will very much depend on when the pregnant ewes come in contact with the organism. Abortion takes place about 45 days after infection. So if ewes are infected in the early stages of pregnancy there will just be an increased proportion of dry ewes. If the ewes are infected in mid pregnancy abortions will occur and if ewes are infected late in pregnancy there may be no abortions at all. Once ewes become infected with Toxoplasma they become immune for life. This is why ewes that have aborted due to Toxoplasma should be kept, provided that they are otherwise sound. The problem then arises that even though the older ewes are immune the replacement hoggets entering the flock may not have been exposed to the disease. There are a number of steps that can be taken to reduce the incidence of the disease. Shooting all the cats on the farm is not one of them. Older cats will be immune and will keep out wild/stray cats that may be carrying the infection. Feed additives such as Decox and Rumensin have been shown to help reduce the incidence but their inclusion in feed is expensive. Making feed stores vermin-proof and cat-proof as well as using the top layer of straw/hay (where the cats are most likely to have nested) for cattle instead of sheep should also help to reduce the risk. At pasture, however, there is little that can be done. Another type of abortion that is on the increase is enzootic abortion or chlamydia. This is a disease that is generally brought into the flock by purchasing infected stock. The disease is spread from sheep to sheep at lambing via birth fluids. In contrast to Toxoplasma, sheep that abort with enzootic abortion should be culled, as they will continually shed the organism. Where the cause of the causal agent is identified as enzootic abortion, long-acting antibiotics can be used to stem the number of remaining ewes that will abort. This is, however, a short term solution and should not be seen as a control measure. What is the cost of abortion? First of all you have the loss of the lambs. Every 0.1 increase in weaning rate is worth ?6.50/ewe, therefore every 0.1 reduction as a result of abortion would cost the same: ?6.50. But it does not stop there. You also have the loss of ewes, increased vet bills for antibiotics, etc, not to mention the hassle and heartbreak associated with getting dead and decaying lambs out of aborting ewes. Vaccination offers good control - but at a cost. As I mentioned at the beginning of the article there is a vast range of causes of abortion. Toxoplasma and Enzootic abortion are just two. If these have been identified as causal agents in the past, vaccination should be considered. The cost of vaccination for Toxoplasma and Enzootic abortion will come to around ?10 per ewe. That's more than the entire veterinary budget for a mid season commercial flock. But it is only a once-off and does not have to be repeated every year. Many farmers just vaccinate the hoggets coming into the flock each year. That way the cost works out at around ?2/year per ewe in the flock if the replacement rate is 20pc. The decision regarding the justification for vaccination should be taken in consultation with your vet. If you do decide to vaccinate you must do so at least four weeks before mating. Because the vaccine for Toxoplasma is a live vaccine it has a very short shelf life (less than 10 days) and must be ordered by your vet. 
