{ By Associated Press   Published:  11:44, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8041985/Melania-Trump-visits-happiness-class-Indian-school.html }
NEW DELHI (AP) - U.S. first lady Melania Trump relaxed Tuesday by meditating with students participating in a "happiness class" during a tour of a government-run school in the Indian capital. The class curriculum dovetails with her "Be Best" initiative to teach children and young adults to be kind, avoid drugs and take care of themselves. A student band at the Sarvodaya Co-Educational Senior Secondary School played bagpipes as they greeted their American visitor at the school, which was decorated with floral garlands. Mrs. Trump stopped at a reading room, spent time with kindergarten students and watched a yoga practice. She also meditated with students as part of a "mindfulness" activity and said after the exercise that she felt relaxed. The first lady said during brief, formal remarks that it inspired her to know that students start each day by practicing mindfulness. "From mindful breathing, telling a story to a friend, listening to another classmate or simply connecting with nature, I cannot think of a better way for all of us to start our day," she said. U.S. First Lady Melania Trump meditates along with children during a happiness class at Sarvodaya Co-Educational Senior Secondary School in New Delhi, India, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) She also told the students that seeing the program and hearing from their teachers proved to her "that the principles of `Be Best´ are not just limited to the United States but can be found throughout the world." The New Delhi state government began offering "happiness" classes 18 months ago to teach students meditation, basic obedience and other methods to help reduce their levels of anxiety and stress. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who oversees education, tweeted that the program's early results had inspired confidence among local officials that "happiness" classes are the "ultimate solution to all violence & hate in mindsets that we are facing worldwide." ___ Associated Press writer Darlene Superville contributed to this report from Washington. U.S. first lady Melania Trump is garlanded by two children at Sarvodaya Co-Educational Senior Secondary School in New Delhi, India, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) U.S. first lady Melania Trump shakes hand with children at Sarvodaya Co-Educational Senior Secondary School in New Delhi, India, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) U.S. First Lady Melania Trump meditates along with children during a happiness class at Sarvodaya Co-Educational Senior Secondary School in New Delhi, India, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) U.S. firstlady Melania Trump speaks during her visit to Sarvodaya Co-Educational Senior Secondary School in New Delhi, India, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) U.S. first lady Melania Trump waits to be garlanded by two children at Sarvodaya Co-Educational Senior Secondary School in New Delhi, India, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) U.S. first lady Melania Trump walks with two children at Sarvodaya Co-Educational Senior Secondary School in New Delhi, India, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) U.S. firstlady Melania Trump interacts with children inside happiness class at Sarvodaya Co-Educational Senior Secondary School in New Delhi, India, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) U.S. firstlady Melania Trump takes a tour of Sarvodaya Co-Educational Senior Secondary School in New Delhi, India, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) U.S. first lady Melania Trump greets Indian style as children try to reach out to shake hands with her at Sarvodaya Co-Educational Senior Secondary School in New Delhi, India, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) U.S. first lady Melania Trump, background, cheers as a boy dances impromptu while sitting with other children in the lawn at Sarvodaya Co-Educational Senior Secondary School in New Delhi, India, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) U.S. First Lady Melania Trump interacts with children during a happiness class at Sarvodaya Co-Educational Senior Secondary School in New Delhi, India, Tuesday, Feb. 25, 2020. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri) 
