drugs
{ By Emily Webber For Mailonline   Published:  08:59, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8031787/Ministers-expected-scrap-plans-allow-officially-change-gender-simply-declaring-it.html }
Ministers are expected to abandon plans to allow people to change their gender by simply declaring amid concerns for the impact of children.  A government source said ministers have concerns about the effect the proposals will have on children who are still developing their 'decision making capabilities' while being helped to transition.  'While we believe adults should be able to live their lives, and trans rights should be respected and protected, the government also has a role to play in protecting children,' a government source told The Times.  The government is set to respond to a public consultation on updating the Gender Recognition Act by the summer after it was launched by Theresa May in 2018.  The former prime minister proposed to change the law allowing people to officially transition by making a declaration.  Mrs May outlined her plans for a process that was 'more streamlined and demedicalised' and told how trans should not be treated as an illness.   People have to currently wait two years for their new gender to be legally recognised after receiving medical diagnosis, a £140 fee and appearing before a specialist panel.   However some feminist groups have criticised the proposals to update the Gender Recognition Act amid concerns over trans people using single-sex spaces such as changing rooms.  Former Minister for Women and Equalities Victoria Atkins said last month the government was looking over responses to the consultation and said she wanted to protect trans adults' rights while ensuring single-sex spaces for women.   Penny Mordaunt who was previously a backbench MP but has since been made a minister in the Cabinet Office said there were 'some outdated barriers facing people wanting to change gender'.  'You can't grow healthcare and support capacity overnight, but I think all sides of the debate will be reassured when the consultation results are published,' she told The Independent.  NHS rules allow children who are unhappy with their birth gender to start transition treatment before puberty and without their parents' support.   Children as young as 12 can begin treatment such as hormone blockers after three therapeutic assessments and are encouraged to develop independence in decision making.  The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (Nice) has been requested for the first time to create guidance about referring children to gender identity services.  And NHS England is set to look into the use of puberty suppressant drugs and cross-sex hormones.        
