{ By Carly Johnson For Dailymail.com   Published:  00:48, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8030883/John-Oates-admits-sleeping-women-lost-track-sure-thousands.html }
John Oates is the guitar slinging half of one of the most iconic pop-rock duos of the 1970s and 1980s. And the now 71-year-old member of Hall & Oates recently revealed to Page Six that during the height of his career he had slept with so many women that he eventually 'lost track.' 'I'm sure it was thousands,' recalled Oates who later opened up about the pervasiveness of cocaine in the music industry, as well as the mismanagement that led to his financial downfall. 'If you didn't live through the 70s and 80s, if you weren't a rock star during that time, there's no way you can comprehend what it was like,' insisted Oates who formed the group with lead singer Daryl Hall in 1970. He explained that, prior to social media, rock stars were able to act on their fantasies without the fear of social repercussions.    'There were no cell phones and people taking pictures of everything you did. There was no social media.' He continued: 'It was much more innocent. I used to meet girls in various towns and sort of have a relationship. I might see them and then see them six months later.' But the days of casual hook-ups and roadside groupies are over for the guitarist, since he married his wife of 25-years, Aimee, in 1994. Though Oates admitted to indulging in the promiscuity, the alluring nature of drug use during the 1970s and 1980s had no affect on him.   'Coke was ubiquitous. Daryl and I never had our issues with it because we never did it.' Oates admitted to trying the addictive substance during a night out at infamous nightclub Studio 54, but it only made him more distant from the drug scene.  'I tried it back in the Studio 54 days and it made me feel so uncomfortable that I couldn't do it. It just wasn't my thing.' John went on to say that him and band mate Hall kept their 'sh*t together' by staying focused on their love of music and staying away from the instant gratification of drugs.  'Both Daryl and I knew that we were going to be musicians for the rest of our lives and the only way for us to be musicians for the rest of our lives was to keep our sh*t together.' To close out his personal sit down with Page Six, the guitarist detailed the disastrous financial problems he endured, as a result of mismanaging his funds.  'It's embarrassing to me to realize now that I should have been more aware and knowledgeable of what was going on but I was swept up in being a pop star.'  His poor financial choices would force him to sell all, but one of his luxury properties. Oates would make the move to Colorado to live in his Aspen condo, which would lead to him meeting his wife Aimee. The couple would go on to marry and, eventually, give birth to their son Tanner, now 23-years-old.  Oates considers his financial demise as a 'fresh start' and something that he now views in a 'positive light.' 'It changed everything. If I had stayed with all the accouterments and just continued to live that lifestyle, who knows where I would be. So, in the end, it was a blessing in disguise,' concluded the legendary rocker.  Oates will take the stage with his better musical half Daryl Hall for a concert at Madison Square Garden in New York City on February 28. 
