{ By Marta Jary For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:26, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8028143/Married-Sights-Hayley-Vernon-strips-racy-display-wild-bucks-party.html }
It was recently revealed that Married At First Sight's Hayley Vernon spent almost three years working as a topless waitress, before giving it up to become a full-time finance broker. And now the 32-year-old is seen in a newly-emerged photo, exclusively obtained by Daily Mail Australia, taken at at a party in early 2018. In the snap, the bodybuilder strips off and wears nothing but a black skirt, sneakers and a smile.  She bends one knee in the air, resting it on the thigh of a man wearing suspenders and black underwear.  Hayley leaned back, holding what appeared to be a beer, beaming as she posed under what appears to be a tent mounted alongside a riverbank.  At her feet is an esky, and multiple men look on, enjoying the party as they stand on the sand.   It comes after it was revealed the fit brunette, who 'married' truck driver David Cannon on the show, would regularly strip off for bucks nights and corporate events across Melbourne while working as a topless waitress. In another photo exclusively obtained by Daily Mail Australia, an unidentified male is seen kissing Hayley's bare buttocks at the same party in 2018. The man appeared to lift up her tiny black skirt and plant a kiss on her bottom.  During her days as a topless waitress, Hayley worked under the alias 'Lee'. A source told Daily Mail Australia that Hayley isn't ashamed of her past, adding: 'It's no secret to her friends and she never tried to hide it.' 'She made great money, had fun and never did anything that made her feel uncomfortable,' they said. When approached for comment, Hayley happily confirmed her former career to Daily Mail Australia.   During a recent episode of MAFS, Hayley spoke about her previous addiction to crystal meth and how she overcame her struggles with health and fitness.  'I act tough, but I am not. I put up a front. My teenage years were a little rougher than most. I come from a family where the peace broke quite early,' she said. 'When you've got those things going on during your adolescence, and you're trying to find yourself as a person, it is extremely difficult. I turned to drugs. 'At the end of the day, it was as simple of that. I was kicked out of home from the age of 17, then I was abusing several substances. This was all I knew for eight or nine years.'  But she turned things around after meeting a female bodybuilder who inspired her to start training and embrace a healthy lifestyle. 'It gave me direction, it gave me purpose and it gave me focus. And slowly, the pieces of the puzzle and people I love came back into my life,' she added. Married At First Sight continues Thursday at 7:30pm on Channel Nine   
