{ By Jaci Stephen for the Daily Mail   Published:  22:31, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8017107/Soapwatch-JACI-STEPHENS-ultimate-insight-weeks-soaps.html }
Soap awards tend to be handed out to those who have featured in headline-grabbing stories: rape, murder, cancer – if you are a victim or perpetrator, your chances of winning increase enormously. But there are many actors who are the glue that holds the fabric together; those doing the less exciting stuff on a weekly basis and who sometimes have to wait years for a really juicy storyline to come their way, despite being at the forefront of much of the drama.  Take Adam Woodyatt, who’s played Ian in EastEnders since the first episode in 1985.  He shows immense skill in the role, and whether the scene is one of tragedy or comedy (the comic timing of his delivery makes it laugh-aloud funny), he’s one of the most versatile actors of the genre. Likewise, Helen Worth, who’s portrayed Gail in Corrie since 1974. She’s another actor with sublime comic timing who can also deliver the full gamut of emotions.  Then there’s Emmerdale’s Chris Chittell, in the role of Eric since 1986 (by the way, you can also catch him as a teenager in the 1967 film To Sir, With Love)… Let’s hear it for the long-standing stalwarts!  CORONATION STREET: ANOTHER FOWL NIGHT How many marriages have the Platt family clocked up? There’s one for your pub quiz. I started to count but ran out of fingers. With Sarah about to add another notch to the marital bedpost, there’s another hen party to enjoy at the Rovers.  Inevitably, it turns into a less-than-happy occasion when Beth storms in and accuses Bethany of planning to run off to London with Daniel and Bertie.  Bethany, you see, fails to get onto the writing course (yer don’t say), but the admissions officer phones to offer her an internship on a magazine instead.  Seriously? Does anyone in TV drama actually do any research into how journalism works these days? Here’s a suggestion for anyone wishing to break into journalism: ask Bethany for the name of that admissions officer, because on this achievement, he/she is clearly second-in-command to God. There are some really horrid men in Weatherfield at the moment. Ray tries to blackmail Abi, Geoff turns up the heat on Yasmeen, and Danny dumps James.  At least Kevin’s batting for the good guys. Chance to fine tune Abi’s engine, methinks, Kev. EASTENDERS: THE EYES HAVE IT EastEnders goes through more make-up remover pads in a day than Joaquin Phoenix did during the entire shoot of Joker.  You could make a duvet out of the number Linda and Whitney have used in recent weeks, and you can’t help wondering why they even bother to put on make-up when they cry half of it off and use pads to remove the rest.  There must be an algorithm to determine how many hours a day they could save by just not bothering with either activity. Even in a prison cell, Whitney appears to have gained access to mascara and eyeliner.  She’s also wearing a top that is not unlike the new Virgin Atlantic Upper Class sleep suit, which would certainly be an improvement on her usual garb. How optimistic can we be that Gray will be able to help her out of this mess? He’s certainly feeling the pressure, and when Whitney claims she acted in self-defence, his suspicions are raised.  When Whitney compounds the situation by lying, will Gray be smart enough to uncover the truth and, if so, will he come up with a plan? Not if previous Walford solicitors are anything to go by.  And who’s going to pay for all this? Gray probably charges a grand an hour – that’s just over 478 packs of Simple eye make-up remover pads at Boots’ current prices (£2.09, plus Advantage points, of course); she’ll never be able to afford both.  Seriously, she needs to address these matters. EMMERDALE: LIP SYNC REHAB As the show delivers yet another kidnapping (is there anyone left who hasn’t been involved in one?), we must be grateful for some happy news when Laurel makes Jai’s day by moving in for a kiss.  At least if these two stick together, they keep the rest of the villagers away from their many problems.  Was Jai wise to leave rehab early or, with Arthur still playing up, will he turn to drugs again, realising he is not Laurel’s priority?  Just speculation, you understand, but these people have form, and it’s never long before a seemingly innocent kiss turns into a poison chalice. 
