{ By Deirdre Simonds For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:47, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8030123/Amanda-Bynes-shows-SECOND-face-tattoo-introducing-fiance-Paul-Michael-world.html }
She's sharing a lot with the world, announcing her engagement to new boyfriend Paul Michael and apologizing for her past mistakes. But Amanda Bynes raised eyebrows again this week as she appeared to show off a new tattoo on her face to accompany the heart shape on her cheek.  The 33-year-old former teen star, who apologized for her infamous 2013 Twitter rant this week, debuted a new tiny inking above her right eyebrow.   This is the second heart tattoo she has added to her face, the first she choose to unveil on December 30 with an Instagram selfie.   Just weeks prior on December 3, the former Nickelodeon star shared her last selfie without any visible ink.  She appears to be making amends in her latest video, which comes a week after her surprise engagement.  'Hey everyone. This is Paul, my fiancee, I'm so lucky. As you can see, he's drop-dead gorgeous,' she began in the video, adding he's 'the best person on the face of the Earth.'  'I just wanted to post a video to say sorry to everyone who I called ugly on Twitter. I was feeling so ugly at the time and it was really hard for me to express myself at the time because I was so drugged out,' she added. She concluded: 'Now I have remained sober for over a year, same with Paul, and I just want to let you know that I love you guys and I'm so happy now.'  Bynes announced the exciting engagement news on Valentine's Day, while sharing a photo of a massive diamond ring. She didn't reveal anything about her mystery fiance at the time, but The Blast confirmed two days later his identity and that the pair have been dating for two or three months after meeting at Alcoholics Anonymous classes. Bynes' fiancee is said to be in his 20s, originally from the San Fernando Valley and his father is said to be a prominent doctor in L.A. She is still under a conservatorship and she won't be allowed to get married until her family signs off, but her family is said to be aware of the engagement. Bynes' world started to publicly spiral after making headlines in 2013 for calling dozens of celebrities ugly on Twitter before entering treatment for mental illness and substance abuse. An E! News insider recently insisted she is 'not doing drugs again' and revealed keeping her on the wagon is 'always the concern' among her loved ones. Last summer, Bynes posted photo of herself in a cap and gown during her graduation from FIDM and teased plans for her own clothing line in 2020.  The actress had been attending the school since 2014, and told Paper Magazine in November 2018 she received her Associate's of Art degree in Merchandise Product Development and a Bachelor's degree. 'Instructors love her. Love her,' says the assistant dean of admissions Kathi Gilbert said. 'She's smart, she participates in class — she's an amazing student.'  
