drugs
{ By Nikki Schwab, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:18, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8030263/We-desperate-legal-immigrants-says-White-House-chief-staff-Mick-Mulvaney.html }
Acting White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney told a crowd in Oxford, England this week that the U.S. is actually 'desperate' for more immigrants to come to work in the country.  'We are desperate - desperate - for more people,' Mulvaney told an audience at the Oxford Union, of which an audio recording was obtained by The Washington Post. 'We are running out of people to fuel the economic growth that we've had in our nation over the last four years. We need more immigrants.'  Mulvaney's comments were in stark contrast to some of the rhetoric used by his boss, with President Trump saying during a southern border visit last April that, 'Our country is full.'   Though Mulvaney made sure to impress upon the audience that he was talking about immigrants coming to the U.S. legally.  He said that despite the president seeming to be 'anti-immigrant,' the Trump administration, in reality, wanted more foreign workers.  Mulvaney said the U.S. wants an immigration system more similar to Canada and Australia.  'We are very interested in expanding that,' Mulvaney said, according to The Post.    Candidate Donald Trump opened his presidential campaign by dissing illegal Mexican immigrants. 'They're bringing drugs, they're bringing crime. They're rapists. And some, I assume, are good people,' the now-president said moments after his famous escalator ride where he announced his 2016 run.  And he really hasn't let up.  In April 2019 he said there was an 'emergency' on the southern border.  'It's a colossal surge and it's overwhelming our immigration system, and we can't let that happen,' Trump said at the time. 'We can't take you anymore. We can't take you. Our country is full.'  Policies pushed by the White House's Stephen Miller have certainly gone after illegal immigration, but he's tried to limit legal immigration too, including pushing for a rule that would bar immigrants who use public assistance from getting green cards.   
