{ By Ariel Zilber For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:55, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8030067/Prosecutors-drop-charges-against-Mob-Wives-star-Drita-DAvanzo-two-months-NYPD-raid.html }
Prosecutors in Staten Island have dropped all weapons and drug possession charges against Drita D’Avanzo, the star of the hit reality television show Mob Wives, but her husband is still in legal jeopardy. Lee D’Avanzo, a reputed member of the Colombo crime family, and his wife were taken into custody after the New York Police Department raided their home in southwest Staten Island on December 19. While relieved by the prosecutors’ decision on Friday, Drita still has her husband’s legal woes on her mind. ‘I have no time to celebrate because my husband is not home, but I am very happy with the outcome,’ she said as she walked out of court in the St. George section of Staten Island. ‘All I am focusing on right now is the fact that this turned out good'. Lee D’Avanzo will be tried by the federal government on charges of possession of a firearm while being a convicted felon. ‘Based on the superseding federal indictment, the fact that Mrs. D’Avanzo was not the target of the search warrant, and after a careful review of the evidence, we believe it is appropriate that the charges against Mrs. D’Avanzo be dismissed in the interest of justice,’ District Attorney Michael E. McMahon said in a statement. ‘The case against Mr. D’Avanzo will proceed accordingly in federal court’. The original criminal complaint says officers found two loaded firearms - one in a bedroom, the other in the kitchen - opioids and drug-dealing paraphernalia inside the home on Woodvale Avenue. NYPD detectives also say they found ‘two scales, ziplock bags used for the purpose of unlawfully packaging a narcotic drug, a sum of United States currency and multiple cellular phones’. Police allege that they noticed ‘a large quantity of marijuana’ in the basement that was accessible to their 12-year-old daughter. ‘She was not the target of the search warrant,’ Assistant District Attorney Matthew Gamberg told the Staten Island Advance. Prosecutors said they will not pursue charges against Lee D’Avanzo, who was arrested again last month. Lee is one of 24 people who were arrested in a sting operation that was the culmination of a year-long investigation by the Monmouth County Prosecutor's Office Narcotics and Criminal Enterprise Unit. New Jersey prosecutors charged Lee, 50, with fourth-degree conspiracy to possess marijuana and fourth-degree possession of marijuana in excess of 50 grams. The sting, dubbed Operation On The Ropes, revealed a scheme to turn candy products like Nerds Rope and Sour Patch Kids into THC-laced drugs. Law enforcement officials also recovered 1,100 pounds of suspected marijuana and more than 6,000 flavored THC vape cartridges, all with a street value of $1.9 million. Drita has not been charged in the New Jersey case. She appeared on the VH1 series Mob Wives throughout the show's six-season run from 2011 to 2016. She has also appeared on other shows such as Scared Famous, VH1's Big Brother-style reality show, and Hip Hop Squares. She has also worked for several cosmetics companies and even released her own line dubbed Lady Boss by Drita. Drita and Lee have been married since 2000 and have two daughters together, Aleeya D'Avanzo and Gizelle D'Avanzo.  
