drugs
{ By Laura Fox For Mailonline   Published:  12:20, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8028727/EastEnders-look-Dot-Cottons-greatest-moments-June-Brown-quits-soap.html }
EastEnders star June Brown has announced that she has quit the soap after 35 years playing Dot Cotton. The actress, 93, confirmed she no longer wished to play the gossiping laundress, after first arriving on Albert Square in 1985. So to mark the departure of Walford's most beloved chainsmoker, here is a look back at some of her greatest moments. Dot's debut in Albert Square (1985)  Dot Cotton made her debut in EastEnders just months after the soap first arrived on screens in the mid 1980s. She arrived on the Square as the mother of criminal gangster 'Nasty Nick' Cotton and the close friend of Ethel Skinner. Dot quickly made an impact on the soap as the resident gossip who is never without a cigarette in her hand, and becomes known for her signature hairstyle, launderette's uniform and the signature catchphrase 'oh I say!' Her early months on the Square were plagued with woes thanks to her criminal husband Charlie - who is killed in a lorry accident - and Nick - who even tries to poison his beloved mum.  Despite Nick's criminal antics, Dot seemed to constantly defend her son, even vowing that he could change.  Dot leaves Albert Square (1993) Dot made a temporary exit from Walford in the early 1990s when she learned that Nick Cotton had fathered son Ashley with his girlfriend Zoe Newton, and she grew close to the young schoolboy. The soap veteran made the surprise decision to depart Walford for a new life in Gravesend with her son and grandson but she returned four years later after Nick was arrested for drugs possession.  Sadly Ashley was tragically killed off in 2001 after his motorbike crashed into the launderette after Nick tampered with the brakes. The death left Dot and her son even more estranged, especially after she learned that Nick was responsible for Ashley's death.   Dot accidentally takes cannabis (1997)  Despite some dark moments, Dot is also known for some comedic moments, and one of her finest came after she temporarily moved in with OAP Lilly Mattock. Drinking some suspicious herbal tea, Dot put on an extremely giddy display as it was revealed that the so-called 'alternative remedy' was laced with cannabis. The hilarious scenes saw a wide-eyed Dot offer some of the 'herbs' to her guests in front of a policeman, before abruptly refusing to throw the drugs away.    Dot helps her closest friend Ethel Skinner Die (2000)  Amongst other traits, Dot is also well-known for her no-nonsense Christianity, which has sparked a debate on several occasion. Her faith was put to the test in 2000 when cancer-stricken friend Ethel asked her to help her die before the illness prevents her from moving or speaking. In emotional scenes, Dot refused to help Ethel with her dying wish as they celebrated her 85th birthday, but after struggling to see her friend in so much pain, she agreed. After helping Ethel to blow out her candles, Dot assisted her friend with taking a fatal overdose of pills, and she later died peacefully in her sleep.  Dot Marries Jim Branning (2002) In happier scenes, Dot finally found happiness with Jim years after the death of her husband Charlie, but the soap battleaxe still proved tough to win over. Jim pursued Dot for months before finally stealing a kiss in the Queen Vic, and when he proposed to her, she fled the Square. Eventually Jim got down on one knee and yet again asked Dot to marry him as they rode the London Eye on Christmas Eve, and in a now-iconic moment, she nonchalantly replied: 'Yeah I will.' The couple then tied the knot in a simple church ceremony with the entire Square in attendance, but on their wedding night agreed that they would keep their marriage platonic. Their marriage was one for the soap ages until Jim suffered a stroke in 2008, and his character was eventually written out of the soap in 2011 under the ruse that he would be taken to a nursing home.    Dot is diagnosed with kidney cancer (2004) After being diagnosed with kidney cancer, Dot was determined to keep her illness a secret from her friends, family and even her husband Jim. Despite confiding in her pal Dennis Rickman, Dot refused to undergo chemotherapy and simply decided to quietly pass away.  But eventually Dot was convinced to undergo treatment and went onto make a full recovery. Dot makes history with soap's first ever single-handed episode (2008)   In a television first, Dot took centre stage in an episode which saw her come to terms with the news that her husband Jim had suffered a stroke. The episode simple saw Dot record a message for Jim in her home, and in the episode she openly talks about her Christian faith, her childhood, but in a sombre moment reflected on that fact that everybody who was ever close to her had since passed away.  It was the first time a soap ever released an episode that featured just one character, and was even named after the Tony Jackson song Pretty Baby, which Dot said her guardian Will used to sing to her as a little girl after she was evacuated to Wales during the Second World War. June's performance in the episode earned unanimous praise from viewers and critics, and even received only the second BAFTA nomination for a performance in a soap. Dot watches her son Nick die after he overdoses on heroin (2015)   Dot's son returned to Albert Square several times over the years, and he breathed his last during the soap's 30th Anniversary specials after becoming addicted to heroin. On the run from the police, Nick hid a derelict house after surprising Dot who believed that he was dead. Unable to control his addiction, Nick begged Dot to get him some more drugs, and finally convinced that her son was beyond redemption, she agreed. Sat at his side with a cigarette, Dot watched her beloved son overdose as he confessed to murdering Reg Cox, and rather than call an ambulance, she simply watched his life slip away. Dot later confessed to the police that she is responsible for Nick's death, and is eventually found guilty of manslaughter and sentenced to 14 months in prison.  Dot becomes a millionaire after Dr Legg dies (2019) In one of Dot's final story lines, she was reunited with longtime friend Dr Legg, who returned to Walford in 2018, 34 years after his first appearance. Dr Legg broke the news that he is dying of pancreatic cancer, and asked her to help plan his funeral, and in his final moments he reminisced about meeting his late wife Judith before slipping away. Dot is then stunned to learn that Dr Legg has left her his entire estate in his will, leading her lodger Stuart Highway to declare 'She's a millionaire!' But Dot refused to keep all of the money and instead decided to share it with her family and buy her house from the council.  
