drugs
{ By Monica Greep For Mailonline   Published:  12:16, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8028643/Tyson-Furys-father-admits-hes-mental-health-problems-son.html }
Tyson Fury's father has admitted he fears his son could start 'doing stupid stuff again' when his boxing career comes to an end.  John Fury, 54, of Leiston, appeared on This Morning today, where he confessed that he worries about what the former world champion, 31, will do when he has 'no goals and nothing to occupy his mind'.   The boxer ballooned to over 28-and-a-half stone (400lbs) and struggled with depression and addictions to cocaine and alcohol after defeating Wladimir Klitschko in November 2015.  Last night's ITV documentary, 'Tyson Fury: The Gypsy King' saw Tyson's wife Paris reveal the heartbreaking moment the boxer told her he was 'not coming back' before nearly killing himself.  Tyson's father John went on to open up about his own battle with mental health, and told how the illness has 'always been there' but says he 'never had time to be depressed' because he was constantly working to 'put food on the table'.  He said: 'I worry when his careers over, when he's finally stopped boxing, what he's going to do with his life.  'Obviously he's not got any money problems, he won't need to work. It's the boredom factor with Tyson.  'When he's got no goals and nothing to occupy his mind, then he could start doing stupid stuff again. ' The heavyweight boxer is set to return to the ring on February 22 against American Deontay Wilder, and his dad admits that it's when Tyson isn't training, that he starts to worry about his son.  He said: 'When you're down to having one fight a year, you have two much time on your hands. Because in a boxer's life, all he can do is train. 'It's when he's not training... you can only have so many weeks on holiday can't you?'.  He also admitted that he's battled depression for most of his life, but dealt with it by focusing on work.  'I've had that most of my life but it's how you deal with it', said John, 'I knew nothing else, but in my time I never had time to worry about it. 'I had too much work to do, putting food on the table and bringing kids up. It's hard work on it's own.  'I never had time to be depressed in the old days, I was that tired that would just come home and sleep, it's always been there.'  Tyson's dad won't be watching tomorrow's fight, as he's banned from entering the US after serving four years of an 11-year sentence for gouging a man's eye out in a 2011 brawl.  John went on to explain that while he's 'learned better since', his son has always been able to 'channel' his natural urge to fight, which his dad believes is in his 'genes'.   He said: 'The thing is, like me, when you're fighting outside in crowds of people things can go wrong, accidents can happen. With Tyson, he's got my genes, but its channeled in the right direction, controlled.  'When I was growing up, I didn’t pay much mind to what I was doing and I've learned better since.'  Tyson's wife Paris last week opened up about how she 'feels every punch' when her husband is in the ring - but John insisted that his son was 'bred to fight'.  He insisted that while there's always a 'risk of clear and present danger in the ring, Tyson's 'DNA and make up' means he knows 'nothing else' but boxing.  He said: 'There's always a risk of clear and present danger in the boxing field, but judging on what I’ve been though,  I’ve taken knocks and bangs and I’m okay.  'It all depends on your DNA and your make up , these boys are bred to fight it’s all they do, they know nothing else.'   
