drugs
{ By Sam Blanchard Senior Health Reporter For Mailonline   Published:  10:42, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//health/article-8041791/Coronavirus-outbreak-lead-ban-large-gatherings.html }
Schools could be shut and football matches cancelled if the coronavirus outbreak becomes a global pandemic, the UK's top doctor have warned. Professor Chris Whitty, England's chief medical officer, revealed there are a number of contingency plans if the killer virus begins to spread. Other measures to contain the deadly infection include reducing public transport, quarantining entire families and cancelling church services and concerts. Scotland's chief medical officer, Dr Catherine Calderwood, also warned gatherings of people could be called off if coronavirus breaks out in the UK.  Drastic precautions have already been taken in parts of Italy, where more than 200 patients have been struck down by COVID-19. Seven people have died.  So far the virus has not taken hold in the UK – only 13 people have been diagnosed, including four passengers evacuated from a cruise ship in Japan. More than 80,000 of the coronavirus have now been recorded worldwide in more than 40 countries and territories, with more than 2,700 now dead.   Newcastle: Two Chinese nationals who came to the UK with coronavirus and fell ill while at a hotel in York. One was a student in the city and the other was his mother. They were the first two cases on British soil and were confirmed on January 31. They were treated at Newcastle's Royal Victoria Infirmary and have since been released. Steve Walsh:  The first British coronavirus victim became known as a super-spreader. He picked up the virus in Singapore and flew for a ski break in France afterwards where he appears to have infected at least 11 people. He was taken to St Thomas' Hospital in London from Brighton on February 6 – but was released on February 12 after recovering. Dr Catriona Saynor, who went on holiday with Mr Walsh and her husband, Bob, and their three children, is thought to be the fourth patient in the UK diagnosed with coronavirus. Her husband and nine-year-old son were also diagnosed but remained in France. She was taken to a hospital in London on February 9 from Brighton. She was thought to be at the Royal Free in Camden, but has since been released. Four more people in Brighton were diagnosed and were all 'known contacts' of the super-spreader and are thought to have stayed in the same French resort. One is known to be an A&E doctor and is believed to have worked at Worthing Hospital. Another attended a bus conference in Westminster on February 6. They were all treated in London and have now been sent home. London: The first case of the coronavirus in London brought the total number of cases in the UK to nine. The woman was diagnosed on February 12, after going to A&E in an Uber. She was then taken to St Thomas' Hospital. She is thought to have flown into the UK from China the weekend before, with officials confirming she caught the virus there.  Merseyside: Four out of 32 people who were evacuated from the Diamond Princess cruise ship in Japan were diagnosed with the virus when they got home, on Sunday January 23. They are thought to have been taken to the Royal Liverpool University Hospital, which is close to Arrowe Park Hospital where the other 28 passengers are in quarantine. Total in UK hospitals: 13 patients – 10 Britons and three Chinese nationals Speaking at the Department of Health and Social Care in central London, Professor Whitty said a number of options will be looked at depending on the scale of infection. He added: 'There's no secret there's a variety of things you need to look at, you look at things like school closures, you look at things like reducing transport. 'The expectation is not that we will do all these things, the expectation is we will be looking systematically, using the science, at all the building blocks and balancing the effects against costs to society.' Professor Whitty said that whole families could be asked to self-isolate if one of them had symptoms of the virus. He added: 'We might want to look at things like should people stay at home with their families in that situation. 'We would already recommend staying at home yourself, a stage up from that, and I'm not saying we would recommend that, is saying if you are ill with this you would stay at home and your family would stay at home as well. It's one of the things we would want to think about.' But Professor Whitty said he was 'completely confident' the NHS could manage current level of activity caused by the coronavirus. He stressed that health officials are still concentrating on containing the virus and stopping it spreading. Professor Whitty said that World Health Organisation (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus' warning the spread of the virus has the potential to become a pandemic was his view as well. He added: 'That remains the situation, that's our view. Equally, this is still potentially containable.' And Professor Whitty said any vaccine against coronavirus will have to come from existing drugs that already have licences. He added: 'The key thing is to find drugs that are currently licensed that work against this virus. We will not be able to develop a new drug before it reaches its peak.'  Speaking on BBC Good Morning Scotland, Dr Calderwood said UK officials' priority was 'containment first' – isolating people who get the virus and their contacts – but could escalate to broader measures if cases started to rise as they have in Italy. 'If we do have a cluster, as has happened in Italy, then we move into delaying the spread,' Dr Calderwood said. COUNTRIES    CHINA SOUTH KOREA DIAMOND PRINCESS ITALY JAPAN IRAN SINGAPORE HONG KONG US THAILAND TAIWAN BAHRAIN MALAYSIA AUSTRALIA VIETNAM GERMANY UK UAE FRANCE CANADA MACAU KUWAIT IRAQ SPAIN OMAN INDIA PHILLIPINES AUSTRIA RUSSIA ISRAEL SWITZERLAND CROATIA AFGHANISTAN NEPAL CAMBODIA BELGIUM LEBANON FINLAND SWEDEN EGYPT SRI LANKA WORLD TOTAL   CASES 77,660 977                                 691 316 160 95 90 84 53 37 31 23 22 22 16 16 13 13 12 11 10 8 5 5 4 3 3 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 80,397    'Delaying the spread would mean some of the measures that have happened already in Italy – stopping people coming together in large groups so that one or a few individuals do not spread to many, many more around them.' Dr Calderwood said deaths from the coronavirus appear to be more common in elderly people and those with conditions such as asthma or cancer. China's outbreak could hit its peak by the end of February, she suggested, but a European outbreak could last 'several months'. Dr Calderwood added: 'We have been planning now for many weeks for the inevitability of any case in Scotland and that preparedness has started with our NHS but we now have stepped up our Scottish Government resilience unit so that we have plans put in place for across all of our county beyond our healthcare system.' At least eight of the UK's nine confirmed coronavirus patients have recovered and been sent home from hospital since the first case was declared on January 31. One of them, a woman believed to still be in St Thomas' hospital in London, will reach the end of her minimum two-week isolation period tomorrow, February 26. She was officially diagnosed on February 12 when she became ill after flying into the UK from China and taking an Uber to A&E. This morning, the UK's Health Secretary Matt Hancock said official advice has been changed to say those who have been to northern Italy – north of Pisa – should self-isolate if they have flu-like symptoms. And those from quarantined towns in the Lombardy and Veneto regions should self-isolate even if they feel healthy, he said.  In Italy, more than 280 people have tested positive for the virus and seven have died, with police manning checkpoints around a dozen quarantined northern towns. Although no cases have been identified in Scotland so far, health regulations have been updated, requiring doctors to inform health boards about any cases of the disease. Patient information must be shared 'if they have reasonable grounds to suspect a person they are attending has coronavirus', according to the guidance. More than 80,000 cases of coronavirus have now been identified and World Health Organisation director-general Tedros Ghebreyesus warned the spread of the virus has the potential to become a global pandemic, although it has not reached that stage yet. Asked about what people should do to try to prevent the spread of the virus, Dr Calderwood said: 'The early detection is very important. It comes as Public Health England has announced flu patients are to be assessed for coronavirus in a bid to spot whether it is spreading.  Standard flu test samples from patients in eight NHS hospitals in England will also be assessed for the virus.  So far diagnostic tests have only been conducted on patients who are believed to be infected, but health officials plan to roll out the assessment more widely.  It is not believed that coronavirus is circulating in England, but by rolling out the tests, experts hope to spot any spread.   Around 100 primary care sites, such as GP surgeries, will also participate in the new scheme so milder cases can also be detected. 'We have taken a belt-and-braces approach throughout this outbreak,' said PHE medical director Professor Yvonne Doyle.'  'At the moment, what we're trying to do is to contain the virus and stop it spreading to other people so it's very important people listen to the advice that if they have returned from one of the at-risk countries they isolate themselves if they symptoms and seek help either from their GP or out of hours by phoning [the] NHS on 111.' She added: 'The simple measures – handwashing, sneezing and coughing into a tissue and binning that, making sure you're not touching your face if you have sneezed, those are very straightforward and everyone should really be doing those all the time in a flu season in the winter.' It comes as Public Health England has announced flu patients are to be assessed for coronavirus in a bid to spot whether it is circulating.  Standard flu test samples from patients in eight NHS hospitals in England will also be assessed for the virus.  So far diagnostic tests have only been conducted on patients who are believed to be infected, but health officials plan to roll out the assessment more widely.  It is not believed that coronavirus is circulating in England, but by rolling out the tests, experts hope to spot any spread.   Around 100 primary care sites, such as GP surgeries, will also participate in the new scheme so milder cases can also be detected. 'We have taken a belt-and-braces approach throughout this outbreak,' said PHE medical director Professor Yvonne Doyle.   'There is no change in risk for the public but taking this preparatory step now will enable us to better detect and contain the spread of the virus.  'The UK's infection control procedures are world-leading, and the system we are announcing today further strengthens our response.'  Someone who is infected with the coronavirus can spread it with just a simple cough or a sneeze, scientists say. Over 2,700 people with the virus are now confirmed to have died and more than 80,000 have been infected. But experts predict the true number of people with the disease could be as high as 350,000 in Wuhan alone.  Here's what we know so far: What is the coronavirus?  A coronavirus is a type of virus which can cause illness in animals and people. Viruses break into cells inside their host and use them to reproduce itself and disrupt the body's normal functions. Coronaviruses are named after the Latin word 'corona', which means crown, because they are encased by a spiked shell which resembles a royal crown. The coronavirus from Wuhan is one which has never been seen before this outbreak. It has been named SARS-CoV-2 by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses. The name stands for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus 2. Experts say the bug, which has killed around one in 50 patients since the outbreak began in December, is a 'sister' of the SARS illness which hit China in 2002, so has been named after it. The disease that the virus causes has been named COVID-19, which stands for coronavirus disease 2019. Dr Helena Maier, from the Pirbright Institute, said: 'Coronaviruses are a family of viruses that infect a wide range of different species including humans, cattle, pigs, chickens, dogs, cats and wild animals.  'Until this new coronavirus was identified, there were only six different coronaviruses known to infect humans. Four of these cause a mild common cold-type illness, but since 2002 there has been the emergence of two new coronaviruses that can infect humans and result in more severe disease (Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) coronaviruses).  'Coronaviruses are known to be able to occasionally jump from one species to another and that is what happened in the case of SARS, MERS and the new coronavirus. The animal origin of the new coronavirus is not yet known.'  The first human cases were publicly reported from the Chinese city of Wuhan, where approximately 11million people live, after medics first started publicly reporting infections on December 31. By January 8, 59 suspected cases had been reported and seven people were in critical condition. Tests were developed for the new virus and recorded cases started to surge. The first person died that week and, by January 16, two were dead and 41 cases were confirmed. The next day, scientists predicted that 1,700 people had become infected, possibly up to 7,000. Just a week after that, there had been more than 800 confirmed cases and those same scientists estimated that some 4,000 – possibly 9,700 – were infected in Wuhan alone. By that point, 26 people had died.  By January 27, more than 2,800 people were confirmed to have been infected, 81 had died, and estimates of the total number of cases ranged from 100,000 to 350,000 in Wuhan alone. By January 29, the number of deaths had risen to 132 and cases were in excess of 6,000.   By February 5, there were more than 24,000 cases and 492 deaths. By February 11, this had risen to more than 43,000 cases and 1,000 deaths.  A change in the way cases are confirmed on February 13 – doctors decided to start using lung scans as a formal diagnosis, as well as laboratory tests – caused a spike in the number of cases, to more than 60,000 and to 1,369 deaths. By February 25, around 80,000 people had been infected and some 2,700 had died.  Where does the virus come from? According to scientists, the virus almost certainly came from bats. Coronaviruses in general tend to originate in animals – the similar SARS and MERS viruses are believed to have originated in civet cats and camels, respectively. The first cases of COVID-19 came from people visiting or working in a live animal market in Wuhan, which has since been closed down for investigation. Although the market is officially a seafood market, other dead and living animals were being sold there, including wolf cubs, salamanders, snakes, peacocks, porcupines and camel meat.  A study by the Wuhan Institute of Virology, published in February 2020 in the scientific journal Nature, found that the genetic make-up virus samples found in patients in China is 96 per cent identical to a coronavirus they found in bats. However, there were not many bats at the market so scientists say it was likely there was an animal which acted as a middle-man, contracting it from a bat before then transmitting it to a human. It has not yet been confirmed what type of animal this was. Dr Michael Skinner, a virologist at Imperial College London, was not involved with the research but said: 'The discovery definitely places the origin of nCoV in bats in China. 'We still do not know whether another species served as an intermediate host to amplify the virus, and possibly even to bring it to the market, nor what species that host might have been.'   So far the fatalities are quite low. Why are health experts so worried about it?  Experts say the international community is concerned about the virus because so little is known about it and it appears to be spreading quickly. It is similar to SARS, which infected 8,000 people and killed nearly 800 in an outbreak in Asia in 2003, in that it is a type of coronavirus which infects humans' lungs. It is less deadly than SARS, however. Another reason for concern is that nobody has any immunity to the virus because they've never encountered it before. This means it may be able to cause more damage than viruses we come across often, like the flu or common cold. Speaking at a briefing in January, Oxford University professor, Dr Peter Horby, said: 'Novel viruses can spread much faster through the population than viruses which circulate all the time because we have no immunity to them. 'Most seasonal flu viruses have a case fatality rate of less than one in 1,000 people. Here we're talking about a virus where we don't understand fully the severity spectrum but it's possible the case fatality rate could be as high as two per cent.' If the death rate is truly two per cent, that means two out of every 100 patients who get it will die.  'My feeling is it's lower,' Dr Horby added. 'We're probably missing this iceberg of milder cases. But that's the current circumstance we're in. 'Two per cent case fatality rate is comparable to the Spanish Flu pandemic in 1918 so it is a significant concern globally.' How does the virus spread? The illness can spread between people just through coughs and sneezes, making it an extremely contagious infection. And it may also spread even before someone has symptoms. It is believed to travel in the saliva and even through water in the eyes, therefore close contact, kissing, and sharing cutlery or utensils are all risky.  Originally, people were thought to be catching it from a live animal market in Wuhan city. But cases soon began to emerge in people who had never been there, which forced medics to realise it was spreading from person to person. There is now evidence that it can spread third hand – to someone from a person who caught it from another person. What does the virus do to you? What are the symptoms? Once someone has caught the COVID-19 virus it may take between two and 14 days, or even longer, for them to show any symptoms – but they may still be contagious during this time. If and when they do become ill, typical signs include a runny nose, a cough, sore throat and a fever (high temperature). The vast majority of patients – at least 97 per cent, based on available data – will recover from these without any issues or medical help. In a small group of patients, who seem mainly to be the elderly or those with long-term illnesses, it can lead to pneumonia. Pneumonia is an infection in which the insides of the lungs swell up and fill with fluid. It makes it increasingly difficult to breathe and, if left untreated, can be fatal and suffocate people. What have genetic tests revealed about the virus?  Scientists in China have recorded the genetic sequences of around 19 strains of the virus and released them to experts working around the world.  This allows others to study them, develop tests and potentially look into treating the illness they cause.    Examinations have revealed the coronavirus did not change much – changing is known as mutating – much during the early stages of its spread. However, the director-general of China's Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Gao Fu, said the virus was mutating and adapting as it spread through people. This means efforts to study the virus and to potentially control it may be made extra difficult because the virus might look different every time scientists analyse it.    More study may be able to reveal whether the virus first infected a small number of people then change and spread from them, or whether there were various versions of the virus coming from animals which have developed separately. How dangerous is the virus?   The virus has a death rate of around two per cent. This is a similar death rate to the Spanish Flu outbreak which, in 1918, went on to kill around 50million people. However, experts say the true number of patients is likely considerably higher and therefore the death rate considerably lower. Imperial College London researchers estimate that there were 4,000 (up to 9,700) cases in Wuhan city alone up to January 18 – officially there were only 444 there to that date. If cases are in fact 100 times more common than the official figures, the virus may be far less dangerous than currently believed, but also far more widespread.  Experts say it is likely only the most seriously ill patients who are seeking help and are therefore recorded – the vast majority will have only mild, cold-like symptoms. For those whose conditions do become more severe, there is a risk of developing pneumonia which can destroy the lungs and kill them.  Can the virus be cured?  The COVID-19 virus cannot be cured and it is proving difficult to contain. Antibiotics do not work against viruses, so they are out of the question. Antiviral drugs can work, but the process of understanding a virus then developing and producing drugs to treat it would take years and huge amounts of money. No vaccine exists for the coronavirus yet and it's not likely one will be developed in time to be of any use in this outbreak, for similar reasons to the above. The National Institutes of Health in the US, and Baylor University in Waco, Texas, say they are working on a vaccine based on what they know about coronaviruses in general, using information from the SARS outbreak. But this may take a year or more to develop, according to Pharmaceutical Technology. Currently, governments and health authorities are working to contain the virus and to care for patients who are sick and stop them infecting other people. People who catch the illness are being quarantined in hospitals, where their symptoms can be treated and they will be away from the uninfected public. And airports around the world are putting in place screening measures such as having doctors on-site, taking people's temperatures to check for fevers and using thermal screening to spot those who might be ill (infection causes a raised temperature). However, it can take weeks for symptoms to appear, so there is only a small likelihood that patients will be spotted up in an airport. Is this outbreak an epidemic or a pandemic?    The outbreak is an epidemic, which is when a disease takes hold of one community such as a country or region.  Although it has spread to dozens of countries, the outbreak is not yet classed as a pandemic, which is defined by the World Health Organization as the 'worldwide spread of a new disease'. The head of WHO's global infectious hazard preparedness, Dr Sylvie Briand, said: 'Currently we are not in a pandemic. We are at the phase where it is an epidemic with multiple foci, and we try to extinguish the transmission in each of these foci,' the Guardian reported. She said that most cases outside of Hubei had been 'spillover' from the epicentre, so the disease wasn't actually spreading actively around the world. 
