{ By Rebecca Davison for MailOnline   Published:  09:41, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8028461/Amanda-Byness-family-WONT-allow-marry-new-fianc-Paul-Michael.html }
Amanda Bynes got engaged over the weekend to a man called Paul Michael, but it doesn't look like she'll be getting married anytime soon.  According to TMZ, her family haven't met Paul and don't intend to approve of her walking down the aisle.   The site penned: 'Amanda will never legally marry her fiancé, because her mother doesn't approve of her daughter's engagement. Scroll down for video   'Amanda's mother is her conservator, and we're told Amanda cannot get married without her conservator's consent. A Conservatorship is a legal concept in the United States. It's when a guardian (or  protector) is appointed by a judge to manage the affairs and/or daily life of a person who may be impaired due to physical or mental limitations, or old age.   'Our sources say the family feels it's not in her best interest to be married. They haven't met Paul, so a wedding ain't happening.' It's been claimed 33-year-old Amanda's family think Paul is a rebound as she recently had another boyfriend.  Amanda posted a picture of her engagement ring over the weekend, and it transpired it was bought off Amazon for $49.  Meanwhile, the actress took to Instagram on Thursday to apologize to people she called ugly.  She also showed off her new heart face tattoo before she started apologizing to several people on Twitter who she called ugly. She said: 'Hey everyone. This is Paul, my fiancé, I'm so lucky. As you can see, he's drop-dead gorgeous,' she began, adding he's 'the best person on the face of the Earth.' 'I just wanted to post a video to say sorry to everyone whom I called ugly on Twitter. I was feeling so ugly at the time and it was really hard for me to express myself at the time because I was so drugged out,' she added. 'Now I have remained sober for over a year, same with Paul, and I just want to let you know that I love you guys and I'm so happy now,' Bynes added. 'I'm so lucky and I feel like I got what's mine, and that is Paul,' Bynes concluded. Bynes announced on Valentine's Day that she just got, 'engaged to the love of my life,' while sharing a photo of her ring. She didn't reveal anything about her mystery fiance at the time, but The Blast confirmed two days later that her fiancé is Paul Michael. The couple reportedly have been dating for two or three months, after meeting at Alcoholics Anonymous classes. Bynes' fiancé is said to be in his 20s, originally from the San Fernando Valley and his father is said to be a prominent doctor in L.A. She is still under a conservatorship and she won't be allowed to get married until her family signs off, but her family is said to be aware of the engagement. During the first half of December, Amanda got permission from a judge to live on her own once she obtains a place to do so. Rick, Lynn and Amanda brought along their conservatorship lawyer Tamar Arminak to the hearing where the judge made this decision. An E! News insider recently insisted she is 'not doing drugs again' and revealed keeping her on the wagon is 'always the concern' among her loved ones. Lynn and Rick currently hold a conservatorship over Amanda and in 2018 the arrangement was lengthened to last until this coming August, The Blast reports. 
