{ By Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com   Published:  05:37, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8027765/Amanda-Bynes-apologizes-calling-people-ugly-Twitter-claims-one-year-sober.html }
With her new fiance Paul Michael in tow, Amanda Bynes took to Instagram on Thursday to apologize to people she called ugly. The 33 year old actress began by introducing her fiancee to her social media followers, who she got engaged to on Sunday. She also showed off her new heart face tattoo before she started apologizing to several people on Twitter who she called ugly. 'Hey everyone. This is Paul, my fiancee, I'm so lucky. As you can see, he's drop-dead gorgeous,' she began, adding he's 'the best person on the face of the Earth.' 'I just wanted to post a video to say sorry to everyone whom I called ugly on Twitter. I was feeling so ugly at the time and it was really hard for me to express myself at the time because I was so drugged out,' she added. 'Now I have remained sober for over a year, same with Paul, and I just want to let you know that I love you guys and I'm so happy now,' Bynes added. 'I'm so lucky and I feel like I got what's mine, and that is Paul,' Bynes concluded. Bynes announced on Valentine's Day that she just got, Engaged to tha love of my life,' while sharing a photo of her ring. She didn't reveal anything about her mystery fiance at the time, but The Blast confirmed two days later that her fiancee is Paul Michael. The couple reportedly have been dating for two or three months, after meeting at Alcoholics Anonymous classes. Bynes' fiancee is said to be in his 20s, originally from the San Fernando Valley and his father is said to be a prominent doctor in L.A. She is still under a conservatorship and she won't be allowed to get married until her family signs off, but her family is said to be aware of the engagement. During the first half of December, Amanda got permission from a judge to live on her own once she obtains a place to do so. Rick, Lynn and Amanda brought along their conservatorship lawyer Tamar Arminak to the hearing where the judge made this decision. An E! News insider recently insisted she is 'not doing drugs again' and revealed keeping her on the wagon is 'always the concern' among her loved ones. Lynn and Rick currently hold a conservatorship over Amanda and in 2018 the arrangement was lengthened to last until this coming August, The Blast reports. 
