{ By Christine Rendon For Dailymail.com   Published:  02:39, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8027317/The-Bachelors-Mykenna-Dorn-strikes-against-accusations-used-drugs-show.html }
A contestant on The Bachelor has shut down accusations she was on drugs while filming the dating show.   Mykenna Dorn, who appears on the current season of The Bachelor, took to her Instagram stories to strike out against trolls accusing her of drug use on the series.  'I'm honestly done with this conversation and the daily DMs I get about it because you are obviously wrong,' she said while including screenshots of the accusations, which included tweets she appeared 'high' or was 'rolling on Molly.'  'Like, do you really think they're going to let us do cocaine on the show? Like, no. I literally have to tell the damn doctor why I want a damn Advil and give her my symptoms.'  Mykenna insisted all the contestants were 'highly monitored all the time' throughout filming.  'So you and your opinions and your comments can seriously f**k off,' she said. 'Because if you really think that's something funny to joke about, especially today in our world with overdoses, and this is a serious thing, like, you are obviously messed up in the head. That's all. Have a great day.'  A fashion blogger from Langley, BC, Mykenna was eliminated week seven of The Bachelor. According to her Bachelor bio, Mykenna hoped to find a love which resembled her grandparents' relationship.  'She is super close to her parents and is constantly inspired by her grandparent's love, which makes sense, as they were together for 61 years and her grandpa proposed to her grandma on their first date,' read the bio.  Mykenna loves attending car shows with her father and watching Grey's Anatomy.  The drama continues on the current season of The Bachelor.  Peter Weber is currently down to his final three, but a theory has gained traction that he ends up with his producer, Julie LaPlaca.  The Bachelor airs on ABC Mondays at 8/7c.          
