drugs
{ By Roxy Simons and Gillian Fisher For Mailonline   Published:  01:17, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8026751/Ewan-McGregor-prowls-Manhattan-models-black-leather-trench-coat-Netflix-series-Halston.html }
He's set to play America's first celebrity fashion designer in new series Simply Halston. And Ewan McGregor looked every inch the brooding artist as he prowled downtown New York in a black leather trenchcoat while filming the drama on Thursday. The actor, 48, cut an intense figure as the renowned fashion designer, wearing head to toe black.  Ewan stepped into character in a pair of smart black slacks and a black jersey worn over a black shirt with an oversize wing tip collar.  Father of four Ewan looked suitably stylish in the role, completing the look with black dress shoes while his feathered brown hair brushed his shoulders in gentle curls. Ewan struck a pensive pose while he puffed on a cigarette during the scene in which his character Halston frantically hunts down modela to showcase his designs.  In his role as the trailblazing fashionista, Ewan surveyed passers by who were all decked out in the style of the 1970's decade.  Halston takes in the eastern print kaftans and Mary Quant dresses to select girls to model his new collection. The Netflix series is based upon Steven Gaines book Simply Halston: The Untold Story which was published in 1993.   Gaines said of the designer's wild sex life: 'Being trash was venerated. The trashier you could be, the more you could get laid, the more drugs you could take.' The author went on to detail how Studio 54 co-owner Steve Rubell would hand out quaaludes during Halston's wild parties in his lavish New York pad, and how the designer would host man-on-man orgies alongside his on-again-off-again partner Victor Hugo. However, Halston's life of excess soon took its toll, as he tested positive for AIDS in 1988 and tragically died in 1990, in San Francisco Ewan will be portraying the show's eponymous star while Rory Culkin, 30, who is set to portray filmmaker Joel Schumacher in the series.    The film follows Halston in various different stages of his life, from aspiring designer to fashion icon who attended A List events with Liza Minnelli.   The riotous biography has been adapted for television by screenwriter Ryan Murphy who's previous works include Glee and American Horror Story. Ryan took to Instagram earlier this week to share a first look teaser of the upcoming programme, which started production on Tuesday. In the video, Ewan transformed into Halston in various different stages of his life and sported multiple hairstyles. His character was surrounded by various model, muses and mannequins who were all modelling his designs.  Ryan penned alongside the video: 'After a long 20 years of twists and turns, the limited series HALSTON starring the fantastic Ewan McGregor began production today.  'I am so proud of our director and leader Dan Minahan, and Christine Vachon of Killer Films. I am thrilled to be producing this great and meaningful show with them and Alexis Martin Woodall and Pamela Koffler.  'Cast list below. Ewan McGregor as HALSTON Rory Culkin as JOEL SHUMACHER Rebecca Dayan as ELSA PERETTI David Pittu as JOE EULA Krysta Rodriguez as LIZA MINNELLI Sullivan Jones as ED AUSTIN Gian Franco Rodriguez as VICTOR HUGO.'   Halston, real name Roy Halston Frowick, enjoyed a meteoric rise to fame in the 70s as he became the designer of choice, and confidante, to some of the most famous women in Hollywood.  The designer began his career in Chicago, and designed the pillbox hat that Jackie Kennedy wore during her husband's inauguration in 1960. Moving to New York in 1966, the designer made his first ready-to-wear line, which led to him becoming one of the country's most influential fashion designers.   
