{ By Dailymail.com Reporter   Published:  00:58, 21 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8026761/Jason-Wahler-reveals-slip-sobriety-credits-wife-Ashley-supporting-him.html }
Jason Wahler revealed he recently suffered a 'slip' in his sobriety.  The 33-year-old star of The Hills opened up about his latest struggle on E! News' Daily Pop with Dr. Drew Pinsky for Therapy on Thursday.  He admitted that the slip occurred sometime during the last five months, but he has since found his way back on the wagon.  He indicated that he took some form of drugs in an effort to lose weight while struggling with body image issues.  He said: 'Today, I'm doing phenomenal. But in an effort of honesty and transparency, since [a previous appearance], I had another slip.  'But what keeps me going is the honesty, the transparency and being vulnerable. Expressing vulnerability creates humility to let people know they're not alone when this stuff does happen.' Dr. Drew chimed in: 'Jason is an inspiration, Jason's a miracle, different dude than when I first encountered him. I look at the slips as just learning opportunities for you.'  He added: 'This man remains my guiding light. And this is what people don't understand. They say, "He's not staying sober." No, this is a sober dude that is struggling with more and more tender issues as he gets deeper into his sobriety.'  Dr. Drew also clarified: 'I consider a relapse when people just leave the program. It's not somebody who's in the treatment, captured by the community, working hard on it and something doesn't go right. I don't consider that a relapse.'  Wahler seemed to allude to taking drugs to lose weight: 'It goes back to the body stuff and the insecurities. A lot of that is really where it stems from.  'At the age of 33, metabolism slows down and not being able to get back in shape and, it's like, "God, I know if I take this it's gonna instantly cut off pounds and stuff like that."' He also revealed that he had 'five years of sobriety and five years of going back in and out.'  In addition to Dr. Drew, Jason credited wife Ashley with helping him find a place 'where I am actually comfortable in my own skin.'  When asked about the potential trigger of returning to The Hills: New Beginnings, he said: 'The great thing is, I've been working out a lot.  'I've been putting in the hard work and effort that I need to, and I'm getting to a spot where I'm actually very comfortable in my own skin.'  Back in September, he discussed a previous relapse on Just the Sip: 'You know what triggered me, actually for the first time in my life was body imaging. I'd gained a lot of weight from this.  'I've always been somebody that's very active, high metabolism, somebody that's always been in shape. And if you watch the last episodes of the show, I was about 215 pounds there.'  He also revealed that going into season one of The Hills in 2006 was when his addiction first took hold: 'I’m not proud of it, but 10 to 12 years ago I was the drunk, womanizing alcoholic.' During the interview, he discussed how it affected ex Lauren Conrad: 'Part of the process of recovery and living your life sober is making amends and I made amends to Lauren. 'It’s freeing. When you can take ownership of your actions and let people know you truly want to make things right and you apologize and you take the actions to fix what you did, it feels good.'  Conrad became known as 'the girl that didn’t go to Paris' when she bailed on a career opportunity to fix her relationship with Jason. Back in June, he told Page Six that his sobriety was why he wanted to join The Hills reboot: 'I’m just most excited for people to get to see my authentic self this time. 'I was definitely not who I was 10 or 12 years ago. I’m excited to show what sobriety looks like.' 
