drugs
{ By Laura Fox and Sean O'grady For Mailonline   Published:  23:17, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8026845/Ive-left-good-EastEnders-June-Brown-QUIT-soap-35-years-Dot-Cotton.html }
June Brown has decided to quit EastEnders after 35 years playing Dot Cotton, saying she was dissatisfied with some of her recent storylines.  The actress, 93, has bowed out of the soap after more than three decades- but an EastEnders spokesperson has insisted the door is open for her to return. Speaking on the Distinct Nostalgia podcast, June said: 'It's almost as if I've been bereaved. I don't want a retainer for EastEnders, I've left. I've left for good. 'I've sent her off to Ireland where she'll stay. I've left EastEnders. I did make up a limerick. It's a bit dirty. June then recited the limerick: 'I went back to do a good story. Alas and alack, when I got back it had gone up in smoke. I got a small part, a very small part. And that ended up as a big wet fart. Alas and alack, I will never go back.' Dot has not been seen on EastEnders since last month when she left a voicemail for Sonia Fowler (Natalie Cassidy) informing her she had moved to Ireland.  June spoke to actress Rani Singh, who played Sufia Karim on the soap from 1988 to 1990 about her decision to quit, saying she had no interest in a retainer contract.   Dot's debut - 1985: Dot Cotton made her debut in EastEnders in July of that year as the mother of notorious criminal Nick Cotton and the best friend of Ethel Skinner. Despite Nick stealing from his mother and attempting to poison her, Dot believes he can be redeemed. Dot temporarily leaves Albert Square - 1993: Nick's girlfriend Zoe Newton arrives in Walford and introduces Dot to their nine-year-old son, Ashley Cotton.  Dot becomes close with her grandson and Zoe asks her to move to Gravesend with them. Nick is thrown behind bars when Dot returns - 1997: Dot moves back to the square after Nigel Bates tracks her down. Nick has been arrested for drug possession and she is shocked when he returns unexpectedly. He begins stealing from her again and falsely claims to have AIDS. Dot discovers the lie and reports him to the police. Dot helps her friend Ethel to die - 2000: Ethel begs Dot to help end her life after she comes terminally ill. Torn between her deeply held Christian beliefs against euthanasia and her friend's wishes, Dot ultimately helps Ethel to die with pills, but later thinks she should be jailed for murder. Feeling she should be punished, Dot ends up in court for shoplifting. She is jailed for 14 days for contempt of court following an outburst in the courtroom.  Dot ties the knot for a second time - 2002: Dot starts a relationship with neighbour Jim Branning. When he proposes, she is overwhelmed and leaves Walford. Jim perseveres and proposes to Dot a second time when they visit the London Eye on Christmas Eve. They decide to have a platonic marital relationship.  Dot appears in EastEnders' first ever single-handed episode - 2008: In an emotional episode, Dot recorded a message for her husband Jim after he suffered a stroke. The episode featured only her character and June was praised by viewers for her emotional performance.  Dot watches on as Nick dies - 2015: After years of forgiving him for his crimes, Dot accepts Nick's inability to change. After he asks her to buy him heroin, she agrees and gives it to him. Nick confesses he murdered Reg Cox as he lays dying and Dot decides not to call an ambulance to save him.   Sonia steals from Dot - 2019: Sonia resorts to stealing from her step-grandmother after a blackmail threat from Martin's hit-and-run victim. She covers her tracks by claiming hackers are to blame after trying to steal thousands from Dot's bank account.  Although she has been firm in her decision not to return to Walford, June has mourned leaving the show, likening it to a bereavement. She said: 'I was feeling down a few days ago. I thought, 'What's the matter? Why do I feel so sad?' It's almost as if I've been bereaved.' 'I've played two people simultaneously for 35 years. Really Dot wasn't me, but spiritually she probably was.'  A spokesperson for EastEnders told MailOnline: 'We never discuss artists' contracts, however as far as EastEnders are concerned the door remains open for June, as it always has if the story arises and if June wishes to take part.' According to The Sun, EastEnders bosses are surprised at June's decision to leave the soap and her dressing room is said to have not yet been cleaned out.  A source said: 'Everyone is a little baffled by this as June's dressing room and all her contents are still where they have always been. 'In fact we were under the impression that she is attending a gathering to mark the 35th anniversary.' Dot made her first appearance on Albert Square in July 1985 as the mother of notorious criminal Nick Cotton (John Altman).  The character, known for her chain-smoking, has been a staple of the show ever since and is one of its most beloved characters.  Dot temporarily left the soap between 1993 and 1997 before she returned to the square. June also took six months off in 2012 to write her autobiography. On the podcast, June told how she got the role on the soap after the late actor Leslie Grantham, who played 'Dirty' Den Watts, recommended her to producers just a few months after the show began.  She joked: 'I think I got it because they thought I was a punctual actress. I'm not really, but I became so.'  Dot's enduring popularity with viewers turned June into a cultural icon, adored by the soap's legions of fans. Although she loved portraying the character, the actress admitted her fame was sometimes difficult for her family to deal with.   She said: 'They got fed up with it. If we went shopping and people would stop for an autograph, nowadays it's a selfie, you're always being stopped.  'I would always stop. They put you where you are don't they? Your fans. You should appreciate your fans.' In 2008 June also earned critical acclaim when she appeared in EastEnders' first single-handed episode, when Dot recorded a message for her husband Jim Branning, who had suffered a stroke. Her performance in the scene earned unanimous praise from viewers, and she became one of very few soap actresses to earn a BAFTA nomination. One of Dot's biggest storylines in recent years was for the show's 30th anniversary when she gave her son Nick a fatal dose of heroin and let him die.   The character began to appear less frequently from February 2015 due to June gradually losing her eyesight and having difficulty reading the scripts. This was later written into the character the following year, with June making sporadic appearances on EastEnders since 2017. Speaking about her future plans away from the soap, June revealed she has hopes to make a documentary. She said: 'I'm hoping to do a documentary but I can't talk about it as someone might steal it.'  Helping her best friend die, losing faith in her son and THAT single-hander... a look back at Dot Cotton's greatest moments  Dot's debut in Albert Square (1985)  Dot Cotton made her debut in EastEnders just months after the soap first arrived on screens in the mid 1980s. She arrived on the Square as the mother of criminal gangster 'Nasty Nick' Cotton and the close friend of Ethel Skinner. Dot quickly made an impact on the soap as the resident gossip who is never without a cigarette in her hand, and becomes known for her signature hairstyle, launderette's uniform and the signature catchphrase 'oh I say!' Her early months on the Square were plagued with woes thanks to her criminal husband Charlie - who is killed in a lorry accident - and Nick - who even tries to poison his beloved mum.  Despite Nick's criminal antics, Dot seemed to constantly defend her son, even vowing that he could change.  Dot leaves Albert Square (1993) Dot made a temporary exit from Walford in the early 1990s when she learned that Nick Cotton had fathered son Ashley with his girlfriend Zoe Newton, and she grew close to the young schoolboy. The soap veteran made the surprise decision to depart Walford for a new life in Gravesend with her son and grandson but she returned four years later after Nick was arrested for drugs possession.  Sadly Ashley was tragically killed off in 2001 after his motorbike crashed into the launderette after Nick tampered with the brakes. The death left Dot and her son even more estranged, especially after she learned that Nick was responsible for Ashley's death.   Dot accidentally takes cannabis (1997)  Despite some dark moments, Dot is also known for some comedic moments, and one of her finest came after she temporarily moved in with OAP Lilly Mattock. Drinking some suspicious herbal tea, Dot put on an extremely giddy display as it was revealed that the so-called 'alternative remedy' was laced with cannabis. The hilarious scenes saw a wide-eyed Dot offer some of the 'herbs' to her guests in front of a policeman, before abruptly refusing to throw the drugs away.    Dot helps her closest friend Ethel Skinner Die (2000)  Amongst other traits, Dot is also well-known for her no-nonsense Christianity, which has sparked a debate on several occasion. Her faith was put to the test in 2000 when cancer-stricken friend Ethel asked her to help her die before the illness prevents her from moving or speaking. In emotional scenes, Dot refused to help Ethel with her dying wish as they celebrated her 85th birthday, but after struggling to see her friend in so much pain, she agreed. After helping Ethel to blow out her candles, Dot assisted her friend with taking a fatal overdose of pills, and she later died peacefully in her sleep.  Dot Marries Jim Branning (2002) In happier scenes, Dot finally found happiness with Jim years after the death of her husband Charlie, but the soap battleaxe still proved tough to win over. Jim pursued Dot for months before finally stealing a kiss in the Queen Vic, and when he proposed to her, she fled the Square. Eventually Jim got down on one knee and yet again asked Dot to marry him as they rode the London Eye on Christmas Eve, and in a now-iconic moment, she nonchalantly replied: 'Yeah I will.' The couple then tied the knot in a simple church ceremony with the entire Square in attendance, but on their wedding night agreed that they would keep their marriage platonic. Their marriage was one for the soap ages until Jim suffered a stroke in 2008, and his character was eventually written out of the soap in 2011 under the ruse that he would be taken to a nursing home.    Dot is diagnosed with kidney cancer (2004) After being diagnosed with kidney cancer, Dot was determined to keep her illness a secret from her friends, family and even her husband Jim. Despite confiding in her pal Dennis Rickman, Dot refused to undergo chemotherapy and simply decided to quietly pass away.  But eventually Dot was convinced to undergo treatment and went onto make a full recovery. Dot makes history with soap's first ever single-handed episode (2008)   In a television first, Dot took centre stage in an episode which saw her come to terms with the news that her husband Jim had suffered a stroke. The episode simple saw Dot record a message for Jim in her home, and in the episode she openly talks about her Christian faith, her childhood, but in a sombre moment reflected on that fact that everybody who was ever close to her had since passed away.  It was the first time a soap ever released an episode that featured just one character, and was even named after the Tony Jackson song Pretty Baby, which Dot said her guardian Will used to sing to her as a little girl after she was evacuated to Wales during the Second World War. June's performance in the episode earned unanimous praise from viewers and critics, and even received only the second BAFTA nomination for a performance in a soap. Dot watches her son Nick die after he overdoses on heroin (2015)   Dot's son returned to Albert Square several times over the years, and he breathed his last during the soap's 30th Anniversary specials after becoming addicted to heroin. On the run from the police, Nick hid a derelict house after surprising Dot who believed that he was dead. Unable to control his addiction, Nick begged Dot to get him some more drugs, and finally convinced that her son was beyond redemption, she agreed. Sat at his side with a cigarette, Dot watched her beloved son overdose as he confessed to murdering Reg Cox, and rather than call an ambulance, she simply watched his life slip away. Dot later confessed to the police that she is responsible for Nick's death, and is eventually found guilty of manslaughter and sentenced to 14 months in prison.  Dot becomes a millionaire after Dr Legg dies (2019) In one of Dot's final story lines, she was reunited with longtime friend Dr Legg, who returned to Walford in 2018, 34 years after his first appearance. Dr Legg broke the news that he is dying of pancreatic cancer, and asked her to help plan his funeral, and in his final moments he reminisced about meeting his late wife Judith before slipping away. Dot is then stunned to learn that Dr Legg has left her his entire estate in his will, leading her lodger Stuart Highway to declare 'She's a millionaire!' But Dot refused to keep all of the money and instead decided to share it with her family and buy her house from the council.  
