{ By Rachel Sharp For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:02, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8026387/Airbnb-trashed-couple-leave-drugs-blood-stains-knives-sticking-walls.html }
A couple renting a room on Airbnb trashed the property, leaving behind drugs, blood stains spattered around the room and knives sticking into the walls.  Rebecca Singh, 29, and Joseph Crane, 23, had rented a private room for two days from Airbnb host Chris Sayegh in his home in Olathe, Kansas, last week. Shocking pictures on Fox 4 show the room ransacked with trash strewn across the floor and drug paraphernalia left discarded.  Blood stains can be seen spattered on the sheets, walls and furniture.  More disturbing still, images show knives sticking into the walls.  Sayegh said the couple have caused damage costing upwards of $4,000. 'It was bad. I mean, I had a manic episode, and I was basically cleaning really, really good, and I just cleaned everything, and I just did not stop,' Sayegh told Fox 4. The shocked host called the cops when he found his room trashed. Officers came to the property to confiscate the drug paraphernalia. They then arrested Singh and Crane on the felony possession of meth and cocaine. Sayegh said he had been renting out the room on Airbnb to make some extra money.  This was the first time he had any issues with renters, he added.    'I've had people come hungover after a party and needed a hotel,' Sayegh said.  'New Years, that was crazy, but other than that, this is the first of the first.'   The host said he will continue to use Airbnb if the firm puts his mind at ease over any future security risks.  'I will continue Airbnbing if they will help me get the proper security systems to be comfortable, help me get a ring doorbell, the proper locks for everyone room, and compensate me for my emotional pain,' he said. He said Airbnb told him they were handling the matter.    Airbnb told Fox 4 in a statement that Singh and Crane would no longer be able to rent through the site.  'The reported behavior has no place on Airbnb. We’ve removed the booking guest from our community and are in communication with the host to initiate a claim through Airbnb’s $1 million Host Guarantee,' the statement said.    Singh and Crane both face drug possession charges. Their bonds were set at $10,000 each.  
