{ By Brett Lackey For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  15:09, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8024983/Majak-Daw-remarkable-comeback-footy-year-nearly-died-plunged-Bolte-Bridge.html }
AFL star Majak Daw is set to make a remarkable comeback to footy a year after he nearly died plunging from a Melbourne bridge.  The 28-year-old suffered serious injuries to his hips and pelvis when he fell from the Bolte Bridge in December 2018, forcing him to miss the entire 2019 season.  Daw will make his top level footy return at Marvel Stadium on Friday night when North Melbourne take on St Kilda in the first round of the pre-season competition.     The Sudanese refugee managed to return to the VFL towards the end of 2019 where he played four games.  'I'm really proud and happy to say Maj will play tomorrow night and it's going to be a really exciting time for him and his family and for the club,' North Melbourne coach Rhyce Shaw confirmed on Friday. 'It's been a long journey for him and he's really put his head down and stuck to his task and really reeducated himself on what it takes to be an AFL footballer.'  The North Melbourne defender and his girlfriend, Emily McKay, welcomed their first son Hendrix Kuat William Daw in August 2019.   Daw was the first Sudanese-born player to play in the AFL when he made his debut with the Kangaroos in 2013.  He enjoyed a breakout season in 2018, playing 18 matches as defender, before he was pulled from the Yarra River with injuries to his hips and pelvis on December 17. Daw had reportedly fought with his partner and taken prescription drugs before he drove to Bolte Bridge in Melbourne and abandoned his car in the stopping lane. He then reportedly plunged into the Yarra River below. It is believed he was also taking sleeping medication Stilnox at the time. Following the fall, Daw released a statement thanking fans and members for their love and support. 'The circumstances surrounding my incident have been extremely challenging for my family, friends and anyone that knows me for that matter. 'I'm making huge strides with my recovery, both physically and mentally. I have been blessed with a second chance at life. 'My attitude and outlook towards everything has improved. I hope to be back out there playing in the blue and white stripes soon. 'Thank you all for respecting my need for privacy and for giving me the chance to get better going forward.'  He returned to training in April 2019, running on the training track as friends and family cheered him on at Arden Street Oval.  'It's my first running session. I'm pretty excited, I'm not going to lie,' Daw said to the club's website at the time. 'I've been waiting for this for so long. I couldn't sleep last night because of this.' The star defender made a remarkable return to AFL in early July, when he played about 20 minutes in the Kangaroos' VFL clash against Sandringham at North Melbourne's home base. Daw, who now has two 15-centimetre rods in each hip, revealed walking normally had been a difficult process during his recovery. For confidential support in Australia contact LIFELINE on 13 11 14 and lifeline.org.au, or Suicide Call Back Service on 1300 659 467.    
