{ By Chantalle Edmunds For Mailonline   Published:  13:30, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8024643/Drug-dealer-inmate-centre-coronavirus-scare-pleads-guilty-charges.html }
A prisoner who was at the centre of a coronavirus scare at a UK jail and who had been living 'the high life' in Thailand for years has pleaded guilty to drugs conspiracy charges. Mark Rumble was one of two inmates at HMP Bullingdon in Oxfordshire who were being held in isolation earlier this month. The pair tested negative for the illness. The 31-year-old, who was described as 'First Lieutenant' and the second in command in a 15-strong crime gang, admitted conspiracy to supply cocaine, cannabis and amphetamines, and possession of methoxetamine with intent to supply. He had been living in Thailand, having travelled there from Egypt where he went on holiday in 2015, just days before police arrested other members of the gang. Rumble, whose address was given as no fixed abode but who had previously lived in Didcot, was extradited back to the UK on January 27 and went on to be tested for coronavirus (Covid-19.) Barrister Christopher Blake told Oxford Crown Court he had only been able to see his client on Wednesday because Rumble had been 'at the heart of a coronavirus scare'. Following the guilty pleas on Thursday, Judge Peter Ross said Rumble 'was the immediate first lieutenant' to gang leader Neil Wadley. The group had sourced cocaine from an Albanian organised crime gang and conspired to supply up to seven kilos of that drug and 50 kilos of cannabis, prosecutor Michael Roques said. They operated in Oxford and Reading. Judge Ross said pictures published in the media had shown Rumble to be 'rather leading the high life whilst away from the jurisdiction'. He said: 'This is a man who, knowing he was sought by authorities, not only absented himself from the jurisdiction, but ensured he remained out of it for a very long time.' Rumble, who appeared in the dock wearing a grey T-shirt and sporting short hair and stubble, pleaded guilty to two charges of conspiracy to supply a class A drug, two of conspiracy to supply a class B drug and one charge of possession with intent to supply a class B drug on dates between July 2014 and March 2015. Two other counts of conspiracy to supply will remain on file. The others convicted as part of the conspiracy were sentenced in 2016, Mr Roques said after Thursday's hearing. Wadley, also from Didcot, was jailed for 17 years at the time, Mr Roques added. Rumble was remanded in custody to be sentenced on a date to be fixed.   
