{ By Darren Boyle for MailOnline   Published:  11:35, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8024119/German-stem-cell-donor-meets-British-child-life-saved.html }
A four-year-old leukaemia survivor has met the anonymous German stem cell donor who saved his life - after she travelled more than 600 miles to celebrate his recovery. Alfie Commons and his mother Lorna, 40, met donor Christin Bouvier, 34, for the first time yesterday after spending more than two years communicating only through anonymous letters due to the laws surrounding stem cell donations.  Alfie, from Toton, Nottinghamshire, was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in February 2016 at just seven months old, after being referred to A&E by a GP who was concerned about a cold and cough he had suffered for six weeks. After three gruelling rounds of chemotherapy failed, Alfie was put on a trial immunotherapy drug which, against all odds, allowed him to recover enough to be eligible for a potentially life-saving stem cell transplant. But as older brother Billy, now nine, was not a match his desperate family had to turn to the worldwide register to find a stranger willing to help. Luckily Ms Bouvier had been on the register for blood cancer charity DKMS since 2010 and was quickly matched with Alfie - donating her cells in a one-hour procedure before they were flown to the UK and slowly passed into Alfie's body via a dialysis-like machine over four hours. When the teacher, from Schwerin, Germany, finally met the little boy whose life she saved at Chiswick Town Hall in London for the first time yesterday, he gifted her a bottle of Lacoste Pink perfume during the emotional meet-up. Ms Commons, who works in HR, said: 'The meet up was just amazing, it was everything we could have possibly dreamed of - there were lots of hugs and tears. 'It didn't feel like I was meeting her for the first time because we'd been chatting for so long before. 'As a family, we owe so much to Christin, words of thanks will never feel enough. 'She's a really lovely person!' Ms Bouvier, who is a school teacher, said: 'When they told me that the recipient was a baby - I just cried. 'After I donated my bone marrow and the anaesthetic wore off, I called DKMS as I needed to know more. 'They told me that Alfie was a small baby and living in the UK but couldn't tell me any more due to the laws. 'When I found out Alfie was responding to treatment, so many tears of joy ran down my face. I still can't describe that moment. 'It's a moment that is always with me. 'Whenever I feel a bit down, I think back to it as it always brings me so much happiness! 'The meet up was so amazing, I was very nervous and shaking at first and when we finally met we cried a lot and hugged. 'Alfie was shy at first but after a bit of time he became more comfortable and we played with some balloons and had a slice of cake.' Ms Commons visited her GP with her son three times in February 2016, worried about a cough and cold Alfie had suffered from since Christmas. Following tests, doctors confirmed he had acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL), which is a cancer that affects white blood cells in the body and is extremely rare in infants, later the same month. The mother of two said: 'I was heartbroken, our world completely fell apart. 'Leukaemia hadn't even crossed my mind - I was shell shocked that my innocent baby had cancer. 'In fact, it was very rare for a baby to develop ALL and because of this, treatment was going to be very difficult. 'The plan was to treat Alfie with chemotherapy but devastatingly, the first round failed and at this point, we were told Alfie's only chance of survival was a bone marrow transplant. 'Worse was to follow, as his second course also failed and on the same day, we were told that Alfie's brother, Billy wasn't a blood stem cell match for him either. The fear of losing Alfie was overwhelming. I felt helpless but I had to carry on for Alfie's sake.' During Alfie's third round of chemo, Lorna was told a donor had been identified for her son. But because of her son's age and the fact the chemotherapy was failing, there was no medical protocol on how he should be treated and it was decided he would be put on a trial immunotherapy drug to prepare him for the transplant. Ms Bouvier had been on the blood stem cell registry for a number of years before she received a letter to say that she could be a match for Alfie in 2016. She travelled eight hours by train to a hospital in Cologne to donate in a one-hour operation which involved a needle being inserted into her pelvis and the bottom of her spine under general anaesthetic to harvest the stem cells. Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) is a type of blood cancer that starts from young white blood cells in the bone marrow. There are around 810 new cases in the UK every year. In the US, ALL affects approximately 1.7 adults per 100,000.  Anyone can develop ALL, however, it mainly affects younger people. Many ALL symptoms are vague and flu-like, such as:  Risks for developing ALL include exposure to radiation, smoking, being overweight and having a weak immune system. Research suggests being breastfed and exposed to childhood infections may reduce a person's risk. The main ALL treatment is chemotherapy. Patients may also have radiotherapy, steroids or bone marrow transplants. Source: Cancer Research UK  After the transplant in August 2016, Alfie developed potentially-deadly Graft versus Host Disease (GvHD) on his skin and in his gut, which brought him out in a bright red rash, but luckily was controlled by medication. But in the months that followed his body accepted Christin's stem cells and began to produce more of its own and he was officially declared all clear one year after the transplant in 2017, before starting school in September 2019. Ms Commons and Ms Bouvier started to communicate anonymously via DKMS two months after the transplant as per UK law, with Ms Commons able to name and send pictures and videos of her boy two years later. Eventually, the women were permitted to meet and Ms Bouvier travelled to the capital for a week-long trip this week. Ms Bouvier added: 'In the first letters and cards, we were not allowed to share private information but it was still incredible to hear from Lorna about Alfie. 'This feeling was only topped when I got the first pictures and videos of him in August 2018 - it was so moving to see him so well and healthy. 'It was always a dream to meet Lorna and Alfie and I never thought it would happen, so I was so delighted when Lorna invited me. 'Donating the bone marrow was such an easy and uncomplicated process and nothing compared to what Alfie and his family went through. 'I was able to help them during this terrible time and to help Alfie fight cancer. 'So far, this is the best thing that I have done in my entire life.' Ms Commons added: 'Alfie is such a special little boy and I truly believe that this story can make a real difference and save more lives. 'I just want more people to sign up to become donors - there's a match out there for everyone.' Anyone aged between 17 and 55 and in general good health can go on standby as a potentially life-saving stem cell donor. Please go to www.dkms.org.uk and request your swab kit today.    
