drugs
{ By Hayley Richardson For Mailonline   Published:  10:19, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8024035/Man-drinks-two-week-old-urine-day-claims-cured-depression.html }
Some studies suggest drinking a glass of red wine every day could be good for our health - but how about a glass of urine? Harry Matadeen, from Farnborough, Hampshire, claims he feels better than ever after he started drinking his own pee every day - and he even moisturises with it, hailing its anti-ageing properties. The 32-year-old health coach first began the practice four years ago, after reading about its alleged benefits. He now drinks 200ml of his aged urine - which can be a few weeks to a month old - topped up with fresh pee on a daily basis. Scroll down for video  And although he struggled at first with the taste, Harry now loves the flavour of his aged urine.  Harry also massages it into his skin in the morning and insists that it's the ultimate anti-aging product. He says he feels healthier, happier and smarter than ever before, claiming that drinking aged urine cured his depression, and he now regularly gets mistaken for a man in his twenties. Harry has penned two books on the power of aged urine therapy and wants to educate people to be more open-minded about its healing capabilities, insisting that it's the most powerful medicine available. 'Aged Urine therapy is the art and science of collecting and storing one's own urine in a bottle, allowing it to ferment by itself in a natural process, and then using that "aged" urine as medicine to heal you, either through drinking it, massaging it into blood through the skin, or even in other ways like in an enema, an aged urine enema!,' he explained. 'To me it's been nothing but very powerful! I started fresh urine therapy owing to not feeling physically healthy and depressed, it worked wonders in removing my depression. 'The aged urine was next level and the boost in energy was incredible! It's made my brain feel sharper and my previous depression just went away.' Harry added that people are 'frequently surprised' when they find out his age, and puts it down to massaging some of his aged urine into his face every morning.  'Most people think I look in my twenties,' he claimed. 'It's a top end moisturiser and removes wrinkles and it has 2 per cent urea in it, which is substance the best anti-ageing creams use.  'I'm not a vain person, so looking younger doesn't stroke my ego too much, but I do care about being healthy and full of energy, and aged urine gives me those things, for free.' Urine is made of approximately 95 per cent water and 5 per cent nutrients including calcium and iron.  Fans of 'urotherapy'- a term used to describe drinking your own pee, include Madonna.  In 1945, John W. Armstrong, a British naturopath, published a book claiming that drinking urine could cure all major illnesses, however there is no scientific proof of this.  Health expert  Aisling Pigott, dietician and spokesperson for the British Dietetic Association, says urine contains toxins expelled from the body and kidneys and drinking it could therefore be harmful and cause infection.   However Shona Wilkinson, head nutritionist at NutriCentre, says urine is not toxic and is sterile as it has been filtered twice – once by the liver and again by the kidneys.  Followers claim it cures diseases when ingested and acne when used topically due to its 'disinfectant' properties, and it has been used in Ayurvedic and Chinese medicines. Sources: Healthline.com; Marie Claire Harry said people shouldn't rely on doctors and drugs to look after their health and should start taking care of it today. 'That way we can prevent worries like cancer, Alzheimer's, dementia, heart disease and strokes,' he went on. 'We can reduce our risk of getting these all significantly with aged urine therapy. We have all that we need inside of us.  'Be open minded and try it yourself. Never knock something without trying it.' Harry decided to give urine therapy a go in the summer of 2016 after feeling depressed and physically unhealthy. He said he immediately saw his health improve after drinking it. Harry - who now runs the brand Holistic Health with Harry - recalled: 'I found out about urine therapy when I read a book called Your Own Perfect Medicine by Martha Christy.   'After reading it, I was so excited to try urine therapy. I was convinced it was worth an experiment. I drank my fresh morning urine and when I did, dark clouds of depression were lifted from me, like a veil lifting and a parting of the red seas.  'I got really excited that I make this powerful stuff, for free, so went on Facebook and added myself to urine therapy communities to learn more.'   Harry told how urine is considered aged once its four days old, and each day after you let it sit and ferment naturally, its 'power to heal grows'. 'I never minded the taste of my own fresh urine,' he added. 'Aged urine admittedly wasn't the most pleasant taste at first, but I didn't really care and grew to love it.  'The urine I drink is usually a few weeks to a month old, and I top it up daily with some fresh urine.  'On a daily basis I try and drink small sips, usually around 50ml to 100ml. It can replace meals and there are people now I know of who fast on urine only, be that fresh or aged urine nothing else for months on end.'  Harry has devoted his life to educating more people about it and has over more than 2,500 followers on social media.  'I envision in the near future that every household across the world will have aged urine bottles, for daily disease prevention or an energy boost or for healing wounds and bruises,' he said.  'To that end I shall continue to promote aged urine therapy, and I'm more than happy to be known as that guy drinking pee!' For more on Harry's work, visit his YouTube channel Holistic Health with Harry or purchase a copy of Harry's book, Aged Urine - Discovery Of The Century, on Amazon.  
