{ By Olivia Wheeler and Adam S. Levy and Roxy Simons For Mailonline   Published:  07:07, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8023609/Ewan-McGregor-films-Ryan-Murphys-Halston-inside-clothing-store-Rory-Culkin-NYC.html }
Ewan McGregor transformed into America's first celebrity fashion designer Halston while filming Ryan Murphy's new drama in Manhattan on Wednesday. The Scottish actor, 48, got into character as the prolific man, who tragically died from complications with AIDs in 1990, as he filmed scenes with Rory Culkin. He was dressed in a black leather coat which was teamed with a a black button-up top, and pinstripe navy blue flared trousers to reflect the style of the era. Ewan sported a shaggy retro do, and completed his ensemble by wearing black dress shoes and smoking a cigarette as cameras rolled.  Rory, who is set to portray filmmaker Joel Schumacher in the show, looked hip in a clashing ensemble that paired a knit sweater with horizontal stripes and trousers with vertical stripes Halston, real name Roy Halston Frowick, enjoyed a meteoric rise to fame in the 70s as he became the designer of choice, and confidante, to some of the most famous women in Hollywood.  The designer began his career in Chicago, and designed the pillbox hat that Jackie Kennedy wore during her husband's inauguration in 1960. Moving to New York in 1966, the designer made his first ready-to-wear line, which led to him becoming one of the country's most influential fashion designers.  His shirt dress designs and beaded kaftans were a hit so he became the poster child for the minimally opulent fashion of the disco-scene, and prolific artist Andy Warhol even called his work the 'the art form of the ’70s'.    In 1973 he signed off his fashion empire for $12 million, and the opening of Studio 54 helped boost his success as he was regularly seen with starlets like Elizabeth Taylor, Liza Minnelli or Bianca Jagger on his arm when they went out to the venue. Of his inspiration for designs, he told Vogue in 1980: 'What we did, perhaps more than anybody else in the business, was to relax fashion and to create an American point of view that wasn’t there on that level before.'  Thanks to his success Halston embarked on a life of debauchery, which saw him host sex parties, sleep with male prostitutes and serve them steak as a form of foreplay, as well as watch Moroccan sex shows that featured bestiality, according to author Steven Gaines. Gaines, who wrote the book Simply Halston that the show is based on, said of the designer's wild sex life: 'Being trash was venerated. The trashier you could be, the more you could get laid, the more drugs you could take.' The author went on to detail how Studio 54 co-owner Steve Rubell would hand out quaaludes during Halston's wild parties in his lavish New York pad, and how the designer would host man-on-man orgies alongside his on-again-off-again partner Victor Hugo. Warhol even took photos of the sex parties from the side, while publicist R. Couri Hay claimed that 'Victor had the keys to the safe with the cocaine.' Going on to detail his affair with Halston when he was 17-years-old, Hay revealed: 'He looked at me like I was a really yummy ice cream cone. It took a year before I succumbed and slept with him.' However, Halston's life of excess soon took its toll, as he tested positive for AIDS in 1988 and tragically died in 1990, in San Francisco. The new Netflix show, created by American Horror Story's Ryan Murphy, is a limited series, and he took to Instagram earlier this week to share a first look teaser. In the video, Ewan transformed into Halston, and portrayed the designer during various different stages of his life and sported multiple hairstyles.  His character was surrounded by various models, muses and mannequins who were all showcasing his designs.  Alongside the video, Ryan penned: 'After a long 20 years of twists and turns, the limited series HALSTON starring the fantastic Ewan McGregor began production today.  'I am so proud of our director and leader Dan Minahan, and Christine Vachon of Killer Films. I am thrilled to be producing this great and meaningful show with them and Alexis Martin Woodall and Pamela Koffler.    
