{ By Associated Press   Published:  23:32, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8022555/Pirates-Pablo-Reyes-banned-80-games-positive-drug-test.html }
The Pittsburgh Pirates' Pablo Reyes was suspended 80 games on Wednesday under the major league drug program following a positive test for the performance-enhancing drug Boldenone, which is commonly marketed for veterinary use.  He became the second player in three days suspended for Boldenone, which is sold under the brand name Equipose and is used commonly on horses.  Houston pitcher Francis Martes was suspended for the 2020 season on Monday following a positive test for Boldenone, his second violation of the major league drug program. He was previously suspended last March for 80 games following a positive test for Clomiphene, a women's fertility drug that has been used by some athletes to counter side effects of steroids use. Reyes, a 26-year-old outfielder and infielder, made his major league debut in September 2018 and hit .293 with three homers and seven RBIs in 63 plate appearances. He hit .203 with two homers and 19 RBIs in 157 plate appearances for the Pirates last year and batted .286 with 10 homers and 30 RBIs in 191 plate appearances at Triple-A Indianapolis.  He was on the Pirates' 40-man roster before he was designated for assignment on Jan. 9 to clear a roster spot when outfielder Guillermo Heredia was signed. Reyes was sent outright to Indianapolis on Jan. 16. Reyes did not have a statement, the players' association said. Three players have been suspended this year under the big league program.  Colorado pitcher Justin Lawrence was suspended for 80 games following a positive test for the performance-enhancing substance Dehydrochlormethyltestosterone (DHCMT). Lawrence has yet to make his big league debut. Martes returned from his last suspension on August 21 and made two starts for the rookie level Gulf Coast Astros and one for Quad Cities of the Class A Midwest League. He was 0-2 with a 6.75 ERA in 5 1/3 innings.  His ban isn't quite the Houston-related cheating punishment fans and players have clamored for around baseball. The Astros have been pummeled via the press by opposing teams since opening spring training, with many expressing disappointment that no players were suspended for their sign-stealing scam. Martes did not have a statement, the players' association said. 'Throughout our system, players are educated through MLB's drug prevention and treatment programs,' the Astros said in a statement. 'We hope that Francis will learn from this experience moving forward.'  
