drugs
{ By Leah Simpson For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:29, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8021117/Two-dead-car-plunges-300-feet-clifftop-highway-bursts-flames-near-Big-Sur.html }
Two people have been killed in a fiery wreck after their car careened off a cliff near Big Sur in the early hours of Tuesday. Fire crews initially received reports of a vegetation fire that spanned an acre on the southern portion of The Pacific Coast Highway around 4.40am. Someone driving on  Highway 1 saw what they thought was a brush fire and when they were able to get service 30 minutes later, called 911. While battling the flames at the scene between Lucia and Pfeiffer Big Sur State Park, firefighters discovered a vehicle on the California cliffside about 300 feet below the roadway. As Big Sur Fire, USFS Los Padres, and Cal-Fire Hand worked to extinguish flames they realized the vehicle appeared to have been the origin of the fire. They then noticed at least one person was inside. MCSO Search and Rescue arrived and recovered two occupants of the rented 2018 Chevrolet Camaro. Footage from the Monterey Police Department shows responders at the scene of Highway 1 which was closed until about 1pm Tuesday. The cause of the accident near Big Creek Bridge and 10 miles south of Big Sur Village was unknown.  But investigators said they didn’t suspect drugs or alcohol played a part in the crash. Road markings could be the only indication of what happened. 'Skid marks are an indication of a vehicle going out of control which could be caused by speeding or going off the road and then attempting to regain control,' Oscar Loza from the CHP told KSBW. The identities of the occupants were not immediately known but authorities were working to ID via the license plate. The color of the car could not be determined because the inferno was so destructive, authorities said. It’s possible the victims were tourists, California Highway Patrol said as they opened an accident investigation. It’s the second fatal accident on Big Sur in three days as a motorcyclist ran into a cable near Salinas on Saturday. 
