{ By Associated Press   Published:  16:28, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8021173/Man-fatally-shot-Hollywood-Hills-home-break-in.html }
LOS ANGELES (AP) - Pop Smoke, a rising Brooklyn rapper who had a breakout year of hit songs and albums that made some of the biggest names in hip-hop his fans and collaborators, was fatally shot during a break-in Wednesday at a Hollywood Hills home, his label said. "We are devastated by the unexpected and tragic loss of Pop Smoke," said a statement from Republic Records, the label of the 20-year-old whose legal name was Bashar Barakah Jackson. "Our prayers and thoughts go out to his family, friends and fans, as we mourn this loss together." Los Angeles police did not immediately confirm the identification and have not announced any arrests. Police officers found a victim shortly before 5 a.m. after responding to a 911 call from someone who reported intruders, including one armed with a handgun, were breaking in, police Capt. Steve Lurie said. Public listings show that the home is owned by Edwin Arroyave and his wife Teddi Mellencamp, daughter ofRock & Roll Hall-of-FamerJohn Mellencamp and a star of "The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills." In an Instagram post, Teddi Mellencamp said "we were informed by a 3rd party leasing and management company overseeing a rental home we own in Los Angeles that a shooting had taken place at the property. Foremost, we would like to extend our prayers and condolences to the family and loved ones affected by this tragic loss of life." A police officer guards outside a Hollywood Hills home where a fatal shooting occurred on Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020, in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Ringo H.W. Chiu) Mellencamp said she and her husband were not aware of any further details beyond what they have learned through media reports. Police said the 911 call came from "back East" and reported the break-in was occurring at a friend큦 home. The victim was pronounced dead at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. Several people who were in the house were detained and released, Lurie said. "We're just getting started in this investigation," he said. Chance The Rapper said in a tweet: "Rest Up Pop Smoke, you were too young. God Bless and comfort your family." From Brooklyn, New York, Pop Smoke came onto the rap scene in 2018 and broke out last spring with "Welcome to the Party" a gangsta anthem where he brags about shootings, killings and drugs. It was a huge sensation that even drew the attention of Nicki Minaj, who dropped her own verse on a successful remix of the song. Earlier this month he released the album "Meet the Woo 2," which debuted at No. 7 on the Billboard Top 200 albums chart. It was the follow up to his first official release," Meet the Woo," last July. He also had the popular hit "Gatti" with Travis Scott and Jackboys and "Dior." In an interview that ran on Rolling Stone큦 website last week, Pop Smoke said he used a freestyle lyrical method. "I never wrote anything," he told Rolling Stone. "It큦 all up my head. Everything that I be writing, everything that I be saying, when it comes to these types of songs, just be so natural. Just how I be feeling. However, some songs I do write, and you큞l know the ones that I write, 큓ause you큞l feel it." Pop Smoke named fellow New York rapper 50 Cent as one of his influences and on Twitter, the multiplatinum entertainer memorialized him: "R.I.P to my man Pop Smoke, No sympathy for winners. God bless him." Minaj also posted her sympathies with a photo of Pop Smoke on her Instagram account. "The Bible tells us that jealousy is as cruel as the grave. Unbelievable. Rest In Peace, Pop," she wrote. And Jamie Foxx posted an Instagram picture of himself with the rapper, saying, "Wow just chopped it up with this young black man... just another senseless killing of us." The death came about 11 months after rapper Nipsey Hussle was shot and killed in Los Angeles, and on a day when the man charged with killing him, Eric R. Holder, appeared in court for a hearing. Holder, who has pleaded not guilty, is expected to go to trial by April. In July, up-and-coming Philadelphia rapper Bankroll Gambino, 21, was shot and killed during a music video shoot there. And in June 2018, 20-year-old rapper XXXTentacion was gunned down while leaving a Miami motorcycle shop. ___ John Antczak in Los Angeles and Nekesa Mumbi Moody in New York contributed to this story. This aerial photo taken from video provided by Fox11 News KTTV-TV shows the Hollywood Hills home, center, where Pop Smoke, 20, was shot and killed early Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020, in Los Angeles. Republic Records says in a statement that the label is devastated by the unexpected and tragic loss of the rapper. The shooting occurred before dawn Wednesday. Public listings show that the home which is a rental is owned by Edwin Arroyave and his wife Teddi Mellencamp, daughter of singer John Mellencamp and star of "The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills." (Fox11 News KTTV-TV via AP) Police investigate a Hollywood Hills home where a fatal shooting occurred on Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020, in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Ringo H.W. Chiu) Police officers and investigators work outside a Hollywood Hills home where a fatal shooting occurred on Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020, in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Ringo H.W. Chiu) Police officers and investigators work outside a Hollywood Hills home where a fatal shooting occurred on Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020, in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Ringo H.W. Chiu) FILE - In this Dec. 15, 2017 file photo, Teddi Jo Mellencamp attends the LA Premiere of "The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills" Season 8 at the Doheny Room on in West Hollywood, Calif. Public listings show that the rented home where rapper Pop Smoke was shot to death in Los Angeles Wednesday, Feb. 19, 2020, is owned by Edwin Arroyave and his wife Teddi Mellencamp, daughter of singer John Mellencamp. (Photo by Richard Shotwell/Invision/AP, File) 
