drugs
{ By Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com   Published:  06:03, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8019243/Netflixs-Feel-Good-trailer-shows-Mae-Martin-struggling-addiction-new-relationship.html }
Comedienne Mae Martin grapples with her demons of addiction while trying to pursue a same-sex relationship in the first trailer for Netflix's Feel Good. The six-episode series follows Mae (Martin), a Canadian comedian living in London, who strikes up a relationship with George (Charlotte Richie), a heterosexual young woman who has never dated another woman before. Along the way she must fight through her addiction to narcotics in the new series, which premieres March 19 on Netflix. The trailer begins with Mae walking towards a comedy club, and when she gets backstage, she notices George in the crowd, stating to someone, 'That girl is here again.' After the MC introduces her as Mae Martin, she takes the stage and says she's from Canada and she, 'came over in a canoe recently with Celine Dion,' which George laughs at. After the set, George introduces herself to Mae, and reveals, 'I've never been on a date with a girl before.' When Mae tries to make small talk by asking, 'Do you like films?' George interrupts with, 'Would you like to kiss me, Mae?' as Mae responds, 'Oh that would be so cool' as they kiss for the first time as the neon lights in the empty comedy club flicker. The trailer continues showing the seemingly rapid progression of their relationship, with George saying, 'I'm seeing someone. I can't believe I'm actually saying those words.' 'I feel like I'm shaky and sweaty and I feel like if you're not holding me then I'm just going to float away,' George adds.  Their relationship takes a turn, though, when, during a video call with Mae's parents (Lisa Kudrow, Adrian Lukis), they ask if she's, 'found a new Narcotics Anonymous meeting,' as Mae quickly takes the computer away as George asks, 'What meeting?' A quick montage shows Mae around drugs before she's at her Narcotics Anonymous meeting admitting she's an addict. She also shows a tattoo on her wrist to George, and when she asks where she got it, Mae plainly says, 'In jail.' Mae is then seen on the verge of a breakdown, professing, 'New me, new life, everything is under control.'  Mae then breaks down in her meeting, asking if they're tired of doing the right thing, and when the last time any of them felt any joy was. Mae's parents then confess Mae has always had, 'a very addictive personality,' as Mae's mother pours a large glass of wine. Mae then is seen having issues with her 'sponsor' while asking George why she's never met any of her friends, with George saying, 'It's scary, I'm scared.' Then one of Mae's friends asks if she's dating anyone, and Mae says she is, with George right there, stating, 'I am seeing someone but she's kind of an a**hole so I don't think it's gonna last.' The trailer ends with a number of shots with Mae telling George that she's been with a number of good people and when she lies next to them, she feels restless, but, 'when I lie next to you, I feel like still and quiet.' Feel Good debuts on Netflix March 19.  
