drugs
{ By Kylie Stevens For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:13, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8018347/NSW-Health-warning-QDance-pills-dance-festivals-triple-standard-MDMA-dose.html }
Fears are growing about the emergence of a new high dose ecstasy pill containing three times the standard dose that's putting revellers' lives at risk. New South Wales Health has issued a chilling warning about the orange and white MDMA tablets called QDance found in recent circulation across the state.   The warning comes after police seized a series of the new harmful drug across NSW and is in the wake of an inquest into tragic drug-related deaths of six young people at music festivals within a 13 month period. Advocacy group DanceWize NSW shared the warning to make dance festival revellers aware of the dangers and highly variable effects of QDance. Each pill contains an average 190mg of MDMA, up to three times the common strength. 'The strength of these pills will vary – some will be stronger than others, even if they're from the same batch,' DanceWize posted on its Facebook page.  'Recent deaths in NSW were a direct result of taking high doses of MDMA – taking ‘good’ pills, not dodgy ones!' For those who decide to take the risk, revellers are warned the safest dose is not necessarily what their mates are taking, to avoid mixing with alcohol and other drug and to not use alone. The risk of causing harm increases if higher doses or multiple MDMA tablets or capsules are consumed over a short period or taken in combination with alcohol or other stimulants such as methamphetamine or cocaine. 'Hot, humid weather also increases the dangers, as MDMA causes the body to dangerously overheat, potentially leading to organ failure, loss of consciousness and death,' NSW Poisons Information Centre clinical director Professor Andrew Dawson said. 'Consumption of high doses of MDMA has been linked to cases of serious illness and death in NSW. It can cause severe agitation and paranoia, raised body temperature, seizures or fits, heart rhythm problems and death.' Revellers are urged to seek immediate medical attention if they feel any affects of taking MDMA. Signs to watch out for include excessive sweating or stopping sweating when active/hot, uncontrolled repetitive movement, confusion, agitation and paranoia.  'Look after your mates. If you feel unwell, or if your friend feels unwell, do something about it. Don’t ignore it. You won’t get into trouble for seeking medical care,' Professor Dawson said. The drug-related deaths of six young people aged 18-23 at NSW music festivals between December 2017 and January 2019 were the subject of an coroner's inquest last year. Nathan Tran, Diana Nguyen, Joseph Pham, Callum Brosnan, Joshua Tam and Alexandra Ross-King all died from MDMA toxicity or complications of MDMA use. Deputy State Coroner Harriet Grahame delivered 28 recommendations, which included pill testing at festivals and urged police to stop using 'harmful' sniffer dogs at festival gates.  Glenn McRae, 24, also died at the Strawberry Hills Music Festival in the state's Riverina region in November after taking a lethal cocktail of MDMA, cocaine and GHB.  Another eight revellers were treated for suspected drug overdoses at the Festival X music event in Sydney that same day, where police charged four people with drug supply. Alex Ross-King The 19-year-old attended the FOMO music festival in January alongside 11,000 revellers. She consumed two half-pills on her journey from the Central Coast in a mini bus to Parramatta Park earlier this year and two more pills upon her arrival, the inquest heard. The teenager was rushed to Westmead hospital after she displayed symptoms of an overdose at the festival, and later died.   Josh Tam  The 22-year-old died after taking an unknown substance at Lost Paradise festival in Gosford, New South Wales. Mr Tam, from Toowong in Brisbane, was rushed to Gosford hospital on December 29 and died soon after arriving. The rugby player attended the festival with a bunch of friends, who were later forced to identify his body.   Hoang Nathan Tran  The 18-year-old died after taking MDMA at Knockout Circuz on December 16, 2017. He is believed to have consumed four capsules at the event and drank a bottle of water mixed with MDMA. The inquest heard the 18-year-old became agitated and had to be handcuffed in order to get him to the medical centre. His temperatures also soared to 41C and he died just 90 minutes after arriving at hospital. Joseph Phan The 23-year-old from western Sydney reportedly had a heart attack and died after he consumed drugs at Defqon.1 on September 15, 2018.  He and five of his friends were 'pumped and ready to have a good time' when they arrived to the western Sydney festival. He later told his friends that he had taken three to four pills and was taken to the medical tent at 7.30pm as he was feeling 'extremely unwell'. Mr Pham's temperatures rocketed to 39.5C and he was rushed to Nepean Hospital where he died due to cardiac arrest. Callum Brosnan The 19-year-old from Baulkham Hills, was found in a 'distressed state' at the Knockout Games of Destiny Dance Party at Sydney Olympic Park in Homebush, Sydney on December 9. He was admitted to Concord Hospital with a suspected drug overdose and died little more than three hours later at 4:30am. Mr Brosnan had recently been accepted into Sydney's prestigious Conservatorium of Music.  Diana Nguyen The 18-year-old also died at Defqon. 1. music festival on September 15. She reportedly sent text messages to her fiance in the hours prior to her death expressing her fears over consuming the drugs.  She travelled from Victoria for the hardstyle music festival and had left behind a worried fiance, who urged her to be careful at the event. 
