{ By Milly Vincent For Mailonline   Published:  02:11, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8018473/Jack-Whitehalls-hosting-BRITs-brings-mixed-reviews.html }
Jack Whitehall was at the helm of the BRIT Awards once again on Tuesday night, hosting the event for the third year running. Navigating a sombre opening tribute to the late presenter Caroline Flack, before launching into humorous but easy going series of interactions with the nominees, the comedian received mixed reviews for his performance. Viewers of the show took to Twitter to voice their opinions over the host's skills at the cermony, held at London's O2 Arena. One Twitter user wrote : 'The BRIT Awards this year was amazing. Jack Whitehall and every celebrity ever getting s*** faced and giving us speeches like this. Highlights British culture perfectly!!!' While another user by the name of Kerry said: 'Loved Jack Whitehall doing the BRITs #legend and also b***** fit!'  Others were not so impressed by his hosting tweeting: 'No longer like Jack Whitehall. Your dad is the only reason people come to watch your shows.' While another could not hold back his dislike for the jolly presenter tweeting: 'Good show apart from one thing. Please get rid of the public school boy Jack Whitehall he isn't funny and not down with the youth of today and British music looks completely out of place.' Jack opened the 2020 BRIT awards by paying tribute to 'kind' and 'infectious' Caroline Flack following her tragic death on Saturday. The comedian, 31, said in a heartfelt speech: 'Over the weekend, we learnt the awful news that a member of the BRITs family, our friend, Caroline Flack, tragically passed away. 'She was a kind and vibrant person with an infectious sense of fun, she will be sorely missed. I'm sure I speak for everyone here when I say our thoughts are with her friends and family.' Ex-Love Island presenter Caroline took her own life aged 40 at her Stoke Newington London flat. The tribute was followed by a fitting performance from Lewis Capaldi who sung his emotional hit track Someone You Loved. While Caroline's ex-boyfriend Harry Styles, whom she briefly dated in 2011, performed his new track Falling and earlier in the night he wore a black ribbon on his lapel in memory of her.  Later in the show Jack had a humorous interaction with Harry when he went over to sit as his table with Lizzo seated nearby. 'I want to just say one thing though, you said that psychedelic drugs were consumed in the making of your album ... i'm not going to ask what psychedelic drugs your stylist was on but it's clearly working a treat Harold.' Taking a swig of the singer's drink Jack appeared unable to swallow as he said 'That's literally neat tequila he's gone off the rails.' Starting the show with a sketch as usual, the presenter suffered a fashion faux pas as he kicked off the BRIT awards wearing a matching outfit to Harry Styles. In the hilarious clip, the comedian kicked off the show by presenting international female artist nominee Lizzo with a glass of champagne, as he joked he had some 'fizzo for Lizzo'. However she appeared to have mistaken him for a member of staff as she asked him to polish her flute and take her dry cleaning. Convincing himself that he was a worthy host, Jack then tried on several new looks including outfit inspired by Geri Horner, Chewbacca and Harry.  After putting on a shimmering jumpsuit with a very low-cut neckline, Jack was thrilled with his appearance.    Unfortunately, he decided he needed to get changed again when he stepped out into the hallway and found Harry wearing the exact same outfit. The pair, who looked hilariously dismayed at each other's outfits in the hilarious clip, also sported matching pearls. Jack went for a vintage vibe for his Ginger Spice look, wearing Geri's iconic Union Jack miniskirt she wore at the 1997 Brits along with a flame-haired wig. During 2019's Brits the presenter put his foot in it with a gaffe over the nation's Dads' love of Little Mix, which became Ofcom's most complained about TV moment of the awards. The comedian's gag about scatter cushions during the awards ceremony at the 02 attracted 25 of the 38 complaints the show received. After Little Mix performed a steamy routine to hit song Woman Like Me, Jack said: 'Raunchy! Dads up and down the country are awkwardly fumbling for a scatter cushion right now.' A further eight complained about Little Mix's sultry performance, which saw them don eye-popping PVC outfits. An Ofcom spokesman said: 'We will assess these complaints before deciding whether or not to investigate.' Jack also invoked the ire of Piers Morgan during the awards, leading the presenter to slam Little Mix for laughing when Jack fat-shamed him on the ITV show. British Male Solo Artist Stormzy (WINNER)  Harry Styles Lewis Capaldi Dave Michael Kiwanuka    British Female Solo Artist Mabel (WINNER) Freya Ridings FKA Twigs Charli XCX Mahalia   Song Of The Year Lewis Capaldi - Someone You Loved (WINNER) Ed Sheeran and Justin Bieber - I Don't Care Mabel - Don't Call Me Up Calvin Harris and Rag'n'Bone Man - Giant  Dave featuring Burna Boy - Location Mark Ronson featuring Miley Cyrus - Nothing Breaks Like A Heart AJ Tracey - Ladbroke Grove  Tom Walker - Just You And I Sam Smith and Normani - Dancing With A Stranger Stormzy - Vossi Bop   Group Foals (WINNER) Coldplay  Bring Me The Horizon D Block Europe Bastille    British Album Of The Year Dave - Psychodrama (WINNER)  Stormzy - Heavy Is The Head Michael Kiwanuka - Kiwanuka Lewis Capaldi - Divinely Uninspired To A Hellish Extent  Harry Styles - Fine Line   International Male Solo Artist Tyler, The Creator (WINNER) Bruce Springsteen Burna Boy  Dermot Kennedy Post Malone   International Female Solo Artist Billie Eilish (WINNER) Ariana Grande  Camila Cabello Lana Del Rey Lizzo   New Artist Lewis Capaldi (WINNER) Aitch  Dave Mabel Sam Fender           
