drugs
{ By Megan Sheets For Dailymail.com    Published:  00:52, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8017695/PICTURED-Scantily-clad-women-dancing-nightclub-fashion-exec-Peter-Nygards-Bahamas-compound.html }
Pictures of Canadian fashion mogul Peter Nygard partying with women in the Bahamas have emerged just days after he was accused of luring at least 10 teenage girls to the compound and sexually assaulting them. Millionaire Nygard, who has links to Prince Andrew, is seen grinning and soaked with sweat as he watches three women dressed in tiny bikinis gyrate against each other inside his private nightclub on the property dubbed Nygard Cay.  Andrew visited Nygard at his lavish estate in 2000, after the fashion designer had agreed out-of-court settlements with three employees who accused him of sexual harassment. The prince and his ex-wife Sarah Ferguson stayed at Nygard Cay, near Nassau, with daughters Beatrice and Eugenie. The pictures emerged days after Nygard, 78, was accused of plying teenage girls with drugs and alcohol at the property before sexually assaulting them.  The images, obtained exclusively by DailyMail.com, were taken in the summer of 2007. There is no suggestion that any of the women in the pictures were sexually assaulted by Nygard, or that they have made such complaints.  In one frame he is seen holding onto a woman's bare bottom as she leans over, while others show him playing poker with a table of at least six female guests.  Nygard, the owner of fashion empire Nygard International who has an estimated net worth just shy of $1billion, is said to have previously hosted several A-listers at the compound, including Prince Andrew, Oprah Winfrey and former president George H.W. Bush. None of the celebrities or other people who visited Nygard at the compound are being accused of knowing anything about what went on there or knowing anything about his parties. Ten women say they were raped by the mogul at the compound.  The women filed a class-action lawsuit against Nygard in the Southern District of New York last Thursday, which claims that he ran a 'sex-trafficking ring' at the island home.  The suit alleges that Nygard lured 'young, impressionable, and often impoverished children and women' to his Mayan-themed vacation home in the Bahamas with cash payments and promises to launch their modelling careers.  Once the arrived, the girls were entertained at so-called 'pamper parties' where Nygard would have bartenders spike their drinks with the date-rape drug Rohypnol.  Nygard allegedly kept a database with details about each guest, which he would consult before picking a 'victim' to target at the weekly parties.   The suit claims he would approach the targets and invite them to join him in the hot tub or his bedroom, where a rape would then occur.   The accusers, who were not named but are now between the ages of 18 and 36, detailed their alleged encounters with Nygard in the chilling suit. Nine of the women are from the Bahamas while one is from the United States.  Three of the women were 14-years-old at the time of the alleged rapes, which took place between 2008 and 2015, while three others were 15.       One alleged victim claimed that Nygard tried to have anal sex with her before he raped her and then asked her to defecate and urinate in his mouth, a bizarre sexual fetish known as Coprophilia.  The suit says Nygard offered that victim $5,000 before the rape and later offered an additional $10,000 if she defecated in his mouth.    Another plaintiff said her encounter with Nygard began with him showing her pornography.  Nygard then asked her to use a sex toy on him, after which he raped her, 'causing her extraordinary trauma and pain', the suit states.  'This horrific episode is just one of many like it detailed in the complaint against Nygard and his business entities by 10 brave women,' a press release about the lawsuit states. 'The class action lawsuit accuses Nygard of sex trafficking and rape — all financed and facilitated by his family of corporations and their employees.'   A spokesperson for Nygard told the New York Post that the lawsuit was 'the latest in a 10+ year string of attempts to try to destroy the reputation of a man through false statements.' 'The allegations are completely false, without foundation and are vigorously denied,'  Ken Frydman said in a statement. 'Peter Nygard looks forward to fully exposing this scam and once and for all clearing his name.' Jay Prober, a lawyer in Winnipeg representing Nygard, told the Globe & Mail the accusations in the class action suit were false.   While Nygard has been accused of sexual misconduct and rape in the past, the latest lawsuit goes further in alleging that he was able to escape punishment by 'resorting to violence, intimidation, bribery, and payoffs' to silence his alleged victims'.  When suspicions were raised by local authorities in the Bahamas, it's alleged Nygard would get away with such behavior by offering everyone from cops to government officials bribes for them to turn a blind eye. It also alleges Nygard 'initiated a scheme to purchase police protection and political cover in the Bahamas by making regular payments of tens of thousands of dollars to law enforcement, government officials, regulators and even to a former cabinet minister who became the prime minister of the Bahamas.'  The suit goes on to state how Nygard 'employed a network of company employees under his direction' who would lure victims to his place, especially 'young, vulnerable and impoverished Bahamian girls,' the suit alleges. It further claims 'Nygard also paid people, using Nygard Company money, to intimidate his former "girlfriends" by slashing their tires, committing arson, paying police to threaten to arrest them and by having them followed'.  'The Nygard Companies fund all of Nygard's "pamper parties" by transferring cash from the company's bank account in Canada and routing it through New York,' the lawsuit says. 'Nygard's destruction of innocent lives is immeasurable,' it declares. 'When Nygard became aware of the investigation into his sex trafficking ring, he resorted to tactics of violence, intimidation, bribery and payoffs to attempt to silence the victims and to continue his scheme.'  Nygard, who according to the filing is worth approximately $900million, owns homes in New York, California and Florida. The suit alleges that women were moved around between the properties by private jet and that Nygard broke US laws under the Trafficking Victims Protection Act in the process.  The filing asks for the Manhattan court to prohibit Nygard from engaging in unlawful acts, and for 'damages in an amount to be determined at trial.'  'The facts detailed in the complaint come from years of investigation. After hearing these tragic stories, we were compelled to act,' said Greg Gutzler, a New York lawyer.  'We know many others were afraid to come forward initially and hope that this lawsuit will pave the way for them to also seek justice,' Gutzler said in a press release.  'The facts in this case represent the tip of the iceberg of an international sex trafficking ring that ends today.'  Although there is a 10-year statute of limitations for cases like such as this under New York law. the lawsuit requests the scope be extended because the complainants 'were impeded because of a combination of force, threats of force, shame, embarrassment, fear, political and law enforcement corruption, weak laws that are rarely enforced to protect the victim and bribery.' Nygard was born in Finland but moved to Winnipeg, Canada, at a young age.   He received a business degree from the University of North Dakota in 1964 before getting into the fashion industry.   His company, Nygard International, produces clothing under ten brand names that are sold in major department stores in Canada and the United States.  He purchased his 150,000-square-foot beachfront mansion on the Lyford Cay peninsula in New Providence, Bahamas, in 1987.  The 4.5-acre property boasts a 32,000-square-foot grand hall with a 100,000lb glass ceiling, 12 themed cabanas, an aquarium, helipad and casino. It was once featured on the TV show Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous.  Several A-listers are said to have visited Nygard Cay over the years - including Sean Connery, Oprah Winfrey, Robert DeNiro, former President George H.W. Bush, and Prince Andrew.  Andrew and his ex-wife Sarah Ferguson reportedly visited the home around June 2000.  There is no evidence to suggest Andrew knew anything about Nygard's alleged activities, but the connection could prove embarrassing for the Prince, who has already faced intense scrutiny for his relationship with pedophile Jeffrey Epstein.      
