drugs
{ By Tracy Wright For Dailymail.com   Published:  00:48, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8018625/Baywatch-star-Yasmine-Bleeth-51-takes-dog-walk-LA-two-decades-quitting-Hollywood.html }
She made a red swimsuit famous while starring on Baywatch in the '90s. And Yasmine Bleeth kept covered up as she stepped out to walk her dog in Los Angeles on Tuesday morning. The 51-year-old actress sported a black hooded sweatshirt with a vibrant blue dress in a rare sighting nearly 20 years after she said goodbye to Hollywood.   Yasmine seemed to be enjoying the warmer weather in Southern California as she took to the sidewalk wearing a colorful blue dress with red and orange circular designs plastered across the gown. She covered her arms with a black zip-down hoodie with 'Detroit vs. everybody' embroidered across her chest in white lettering. Bleeth, a New York native, added a seasonal pair of woven sandals made out of a beige canvas material. She kept her dark brown hair tied back into a loose ponytail and let short fringe frame her face.  The BASEketball star appeared to be relatively makeup-free as she walked her pet pooch with a black and white leash.  Bleeth was one of many breakout stars from Baywatch, and starred as Caoline Holden on 72 episodes of the hit show. After starring in a host of television movies in the late '90s, she took her talents to the silver screen with roles in Heaven or Vegas, Coming Soon and Undercover Angel. Yasmine hit a tough spot in her personal life when she entered rehab to overcome a cocaine dependency in 2000.  Nearly one year later, she was arrested after driving into the median of a highway in Michigan, and upon searching her vehicle, authorities found syringes with injectable cocaine. A search of her nearby hotel room also resulted in police finding more cocaine and drug paraphernalia.  She wrote in an April 2003 article for Glamour that 'consciously trying to stay off drugs is now part of my life and always will be.' 
