drugs
{ By Jackson Barron For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:37, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8017883/Unlikely-face-Australias-meth-crisis-mum-lead-double-life-social-media-drug-dealer.html }
A young mother-of-two has admitted to using social media platforms to sell a range of drugs and was even caught dealing when she was supposed to be in court. Samantha Dillon from Narara on the NSW Central Coast pleaded guilty to the ongoing supply of drugs, with another six drug and proceeds of crime charges to be reviewed at her sentencing. The 26-year-old appeared in Gosford Local Court on Friday, where agreed facts stated that a warrant was issued for her arrest after she failed to attend Wyong Local Court on April 11, 2019. Dillon and another man were caught fleeing through bushes behind the Bon Bon Fire Chocolate factory in Gosford five days later, with the young mother carrying two bags of drugs and stolen goods. Her stash included two packages of methylamphetamine, a green balloon she told police contained 20 Buprenorphine tablets, cocaine, one Oxazepam tablet and three diazepam tablets, with no script for the prescription medication. Officers also found an extendable metal baton, another person's NSW driver's licence and stolen Medicare cards. Dillon's phone was reviewed by officers, where they discovered the scope of her drug dealing through her Facebook account, which revealed she was selling drugs instead of attending her April court date. 'A review of the accused’s mobile phone established the accused was in fact, supplying prohibited drugs in West Gosford on the date (of her court appearance),' the police facts read, as reported by the Central Coast Express Advocate. 'It was apparent that the accused was largely using this service to facilitate the purchase and supply of prohibited drugs and prescribed restrictive substances.' When police examined Dillon's phone they found she was selling large quantities of methylamphetamine, as well as Xanax, ice, opioids and the 'date rape' drug GHB. Dillon sold her drugs for cash and exchanged them for goods including a GoPro Hero 4 camera, a gold Adina Oceaneer watch and a Calvin Klein jumper, which were all found in her possession. She will receive her sentencing date in Gosford District Court on Thursday. 
