drugs
{ By Caitlyn Becker For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:08, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8016819/Ben-Affleck-stops-sign-autographs-New-York-promoting-Way-Back.html }
Ben Affleck stopped to sign some autograph's for fans on Tuesday while out promoting his new flick The Way Back in New York The 47-year-old was spotted outside of an appearance on ESPN's Get Up! where he was discussing the upcoming basketball movie. During the interview, Affleck revealed that he's been texting with pal Tom Brady about his NFL prospects as a free agent. The Oscar winner looked dapper as he stopped to sign photos and papers for fans wearing a pair of grey slacks, brown boots and a slate blue sweater. He topped the look off with a handsome blue pea coat and his usual scruff was gone in favor of a more clean shaven face. While on Get Up!, Ben told the panel that he texted Tom Brady to ask where he will be playing next year now that he is a free agent. Affleck, a Boston native who is a huge Patriots fan, got a coy response from his longtime friend. Brady responded with simple shrug emoji. Chuckling, the actor told the hosts, 'I have no information for you.' The Batman star is out and about to create some buzz about his new drama, The Way Back, which comes out March 6. In the film, Ben plays a role that hits quite close to home as Jack Cunningham, a former basketball star struggling with addiction.   The character attempts to regain some of his lost dignity by becoming the coach of a losing high school basketball team at his alma mater. Janina Gavankar plays Affleck's ex-wife in the heartfelt drama.  Along with Affleck and Gavankar, the film also stars Al Madigal, Michaela Watkins, Glynn Turman, Hayes MacArthur and Rachael Carpani.     Off camera, the Academy Award-winner has had a well-chronicled battle with drugs and alcohol over the years.  He eventually got sober in his mid-twenties, but would relapse and seek residential treatment facility in 2017, and again in 2018, after another relapse and intervention.  
