drugs
{ By Associated Press   Published:  02:03, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-8040431/Members-Vagos-bikers-cleared-charges-US-court.html }
LAS VEGAS (AP) - Eight accused Vagos biker gang members were acquitted Monday of all charges alleging they were part of a broad criminal racketeering enterprise that committed violent crimes for more than a decade, including the killing of a rival Hells Angels leader in a casino shootout in 2011. Gasps erupted in the Las Vegas courtroom as U.S. District Judge Gloria Navarro read the jury's not guilty verdicts for each man. "This is what happens when the government tries to put people away with tricks and liars," said Daniel Hill, attorney for Pastor Fausto Palafox, former international president of the Vagos Motorcycle Club and first-named defendant in the case. The jury deliberated the equivalent of only about two days after more than five months of contentious testimony at the troubled trial that had some witnesses stunningly recant their own stories on the witness stand. Defense attorneys lost bids during trial to have Navarro throw out the case as deeply flawed - including after prosecutors disavowed the testimony of their own star witness, former Vagos member Gary "Jabbers" Rudnick. Navarro said repeatedly it would be up to the jury to decide the facts and reach a verdict. FILE - In this Sept. 23, 2011, file photo, police officers keep an eye on handcuffed men at the east entrance to John Ascuaga's Nugget hotel-casino after a shooting in Sparks, Nev. Eight accused Vagos biker gang members were acquitted Monday, Feb. 24, 2020, of all charges including allegations they were part of a broad criminal racketeering enterprise that committed violent crimes including the killing of a rival Hells Angels leader in a northern Nevada casino shootout in 2011. (The Reno Gazette-Journal via AP, File) Rudnick testified and then acknowledged fabricating his account that Palafox issued a "green light" go-ahead to kill Jeffrey Pettigrew, then-president of the Hells Angels chapter from San Jose, California. Palafox, 56, watched Monday as the 10 women and two men filed out of the jury box, and he mouthed the words, "Thank you." U.S. Attorney Nicholas Trutanich declined outside court to talk about how the prosecution unfolded and whether the government will continue to trial for 13 other accused Vagos defendants in the case. "I´m grateful for the court´s time, the jury´s consideration and the diligent work of the assistant U.S. attorneys," Trutanich said, adding that he believed the jury reached a verdict it found "fair and just." The government chose to take the Vagos case to trial despite Rudnick previously recanting his testimony at a state trial that led to a murder conviction in Reno against Vagos member Ernesto Manuel Gonzalez. The Nevada Supreme Court threw out that result because of improper jury instructions. Gonzalez was awaiting a retrial when federal charges were brought. Gonzalez, 61, was among the defendants acquitted Monday. Others were Albert Lopez, Albert Perez, James Gillespie, Bradley Campos, Cesar Morales and Diego Garcia. None testified at trial. All are from California. They range in age from 36 to 70. Collectively, they were accused of conspiring since 2005 to deal drugs and commit violent crimes including killings, robberies, extortion and kidnappings in California, Arizona, Hawaii, Oregon, Utah and Nevada. U.S. Justice Department attorney John Han told the jury a "war" between the Vagos and Hells Angels over territory and respect in California dates to 2005 and continues today. The focus of the case was the shooting inside the Nugget casino in Sparks. The jury was told Rudnick argued with Pettigrew, and that Pettigrew threw a first punch before pulling a gun and firing several shots while casino patrons dived under blackjack tables and behind slot machines. The melee continued for about two minutes before Pettigrew was shot by Gonzalez. His attorney, Michael Kennedy, maintained that his client was within his rights to defend himself and others when he shot Pettigrew. The acquittals came in the same courtroom and before the same judge who in December 2017 found flagrant misconduct by prosecutors and dismissed criminal charges against Nevada rancher Cliven Bundy, his sons and supporters in a 2014 armed standoff with government agents. An appeal of that dismissal is pending. ___ This version corrects that Gonzalez is 61, not 42. FILE - In this Sept. 23, 2011 file photo, police officers keep an eye on handcuffed men at the east entrance to John Ascuaga's Nugget hotel-casino after a shooting in Sparks, Nev. Closing arguments continued Thursday, Feb. 6, 2020, in federal court in Las Vegas for eight accused Vagos motorcycle club members standing trial in a broad criminal racketeering case stemming from a gunfight in 2011 with rival Hells Angels that left one person dead and two wounded at a northern Nevada casino. Defense attorneys maintain that prosecutors haven't proved their case. Prosecutors accuse the Vagos of years of acts of murder, robbery, extortion, kidnapping and drug dealing in California, Arizona, Hawaii, Oregon, Utah and Nevada. (The Reno Gazette-Journal via AP, File) Lawyer Mark Fleming, left, walks with defendant Albert Lopez past defendant Bradley Campos outside the Lloyd George U.S. Courthouse Thursday, Feb. 6, 2020, following opening statements in a federal racketeering trial for eight Vagos Motorcycle Club members on Aug. 12, 2019, in Las Vegas. (L.E. Baskow/Las Vegas Review-Journal via AP) FILE - In this Oct.16, 2011 file photo Andrew Lozano, a member of the Vagos motorcycle gang, talks to a Fontana police officer after he was arrested in an early morning raid in Fontana, Calif. Closing arguments continued Thursday, Feb. 6, 2020, in federal court in Las Vegas for eight accused Vagos motorcycle club members standing trial in a broad criminal racketeering case stemming from a gunfight in 2011 with rival Hells Angels that left one person dead and two wounded at a northern Nevada casino. Defense attorneys maintain that prosecutors haven't proved their case. Prosecutors accuse the Vagos of years of acts of murder, robbery, extortion, kidnapping and drug dealing in California, Arizona, Hawaii, Oregon, Utah and Nevada.(AP Photo/Jae C. Hong,File) 
