drugs
{ By Harriet Johnston For Mailonline   Published:  17:10, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8016891/How-Stay-Jail-Father-whipped-nine-year-old-son-belt-spared-punishment.html }
A father who whipped his nine-year-old son with a belt was spared punishment after going through a police scheme to tackle his depression on a new Channel 4 documentary, which airs tonight.  John, from County Durham, is barely able to speak to police when he is arrested for assault with injury after his son reports the beating to a teacher at school. He appears on the How to Stay Out of Jail, which airs tonight at 10pm, as he goes through the local 'Checkpoint' scheme, which aims to help first offenders avoid prison by helping them work through their issues. John spends four months confronting his depression before passing the Checkpoint scheme, saying he ends up feeling 'closer than ever' to his son.  During their first meeting, Checkpoint staff Lucy meets a new client, John, who has never been in trouble with the police before.   John reveals he suffers from anxiety which causes an extreme stammer, before explaining: 'I hit my son with a belt. It was just a last resort. We have been having problems with him at school.' Becoming emotional, he goes on: 'He'd been sent home from school for making racist comments. It was the end, I just didn't know what else to do with him. 'He went on to tell his school teacher that he had been hit with a belt.' John explains: 'As soon as he saw the belt, he started saying, "Sorry Dad". And I just grabbed him and turned him around and hit him.'  As part of the interview, they discuss John's mental health, which he admits is at an all time low.  He explains that he has been unemployed for some time, saying: 'I had a breakdown at work, and I overdosed.'  When Lucy asks where he sees himself in the future, he responds: 'I just want to be better, normal. Five years down the line... I don't even know if I'm going to make it five years.'  And later, he explains he is terrified that he won't be able to continue helping with his local cub scout group, saying: 'It definitely helps me.' When Lucy tells him that following the successful completion of the scheme, he shouldn't come up on any DBS checks, John bursts into tears.       He said: 'It was the DBS I was worried about because it would stop me from working with the cubs. I didn't want to let them down.'  Later, John says: 'I don't give a damn about me. They'd of locked me up and I wouldn't give a s***. I did wrong by the law, but all I want is for my boy to grow up right.'  Each yeah the police apprehend thousands of criminals. Embedded in the force in County Durham is the Checkpoint team, whose job is to keep offenders out of prison.  It is designed as a way of helping people who have committed minor crimes, which if convicted might stay on the offender’s record for ever or  harm their chances of getting a job.  The scheme was launched in 2015 for adult minor offenders with fewer than three convictions.   The Durham team is headed up by  lead detective Jo Mcgregor-Taylor.   She is joined by Rachel, formerly youth services, Tammy, formerly mental health worker, and Lucy, formerly drugs and alcohol services.  They take on 40 new cases each week. Jo reveals the process behind bringing criminals into the service.  She says: 'They get searched, they get checked into a cell, and the custody sergeant then makes a decision whether to refer to Checkpoint or not.'   If they  pass and their charges are wiped clean, but fail and they could be sent to court with a harsher prison sentence. Around 60 per cent of people re-offend within a year of being released from prison, while only 37 per cent re-offend after Checkpoint.   After five weeks on the scheme, Checkpoint identifies his mental health issues as a reason for his offending.  The scheme has forced him to confront his past, with John admitting his father's death was a key turning point for him. He says: 'I mean, you just don't expect your dad to die. 'I could have opened up to my dad, if I'd of wanted to. He'd have happily listened. But you don't really want to show that side of yourself to someone like my dad. He was old school - army the whole of his life. 'Blokes, we keep things to ourselves for the simple fact we don't want anyone else worrying about us. At least that's the way I've always done it. 'I don't know what I am. I don't know if I'm a realist, a narcissist. It's probably why I'm the mess I am.'  As the scheme progresses, Lucy visits John at home and, to help prevent him re-offending, offers him some mental health support.   When discussing how he is finding the scheme, John explains: 'I've not even shouted at the kid. I really haven't. With me, I can actually watch myself disintegrate which is quite frightening to look at. 'You do sometimes feel like a pansy, a snow-flake, like you're going to collapse but somebody else wouldn't of.'  Later, Lucy tells the camera: 'He seems really open, the rapport is there so I think he's come to the realisation he's stuck with me and I'm like a rash hat won't go away. He's accepted that.'  After 11 weeks on the scheme, she heads back to see John with a mental health support worker called Dave to help him to tackle his mental health issues. Lucy admits: 'I had a lot of the same issues that the clients face and I think the best way for anyone to get better from anything is lived peer support. 'It's really, really good. I tried to end my life and I was in hospital for quite a while.' 'I still live with the medical implications of that, and I always will. But now I think, I'm here and I'm here for a reason, if I can help one person and that's worthwhile.'  Because John is too anxious to partake in group mental health support meetings, Lucy invites Dave to his home.   And how John deals with the meeting, will impact whether he will pass the contract.  Dave reveals about his own experience with mental health troubles, saying: 'I find I isolate myself too much, I get in this foetal position and I feel very very lonely, and that's the worst thing for me.' After the support worker asks if a photograph of his son is actually his grandson, John jokes: 'God you're going to get a slap. That's my boy.' But the comment doesn't seem to deter Dave, who continues: 'The reason I said that is because I'm a grand-dad. And she has kept me alive. But I can cry for England me.' John says: 'Everything you've said is exactly what I've been through, what I do.'  Later, he admits: 'It's soul destroying hearing someone else say it to be honest because I know what he's going through. You just don't want people going through this.' Dave says: 'We will get there, there will be a light at the end of the tunnel. It's not going to happen overnight.'  John says he would happily see Dave again, with the two agreeing to get a coffee together in the future.  Coming to the end of his contract with the scheme,  Lucy says John seems like a different person.  She says: 'John's transformed, the first time we met he couldn't make eye-contact with me. And now he's so much better.' And in his final case meeting, John impresses Lucy when he takes responsibility for his behaviour.  He says: 'What I did, I can't say I would never ever have done it again. There may have chance be an occasion when I might have taken that path. 'But now, this has brought me and my son closer together. It's really shone a light on our lives, and it's really made things clearer.' Meanwhile Lucy tells him: 'The day I met you, you had the world on your shoulders and I could see that. And it touched a nerve with me, because I know what the struggle is.' Later, she explains that John's case is a huge success for her, saying: 'Every time someone disengages or fails check point or does something wrong...when you have a meeting like that and you see how well someone has done and how much someone has improved, it makes up for it all.' 'I'm just absolutely buzzing.'  How to Stay Out of Jail is on Channel 4 at 10pm tonight   
