{ By Henry Martin For Mailonline   Published:  13:13, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8016127/Planned-deportation-25-convicted-Jamaican-criminals-violated-constitutional-rights.html }
The planned deportation of 25 convicted criminals to Jamaica without giving them access to a lawyer violated their 'constitutional rights', the High Court heard today. The detainees were due to be deported along with 17 others on a flight to Kingston on February 11, but a last-minute legal challenge saw the Court of Appeal block the deportation after campaigners said more than half of the 42 booked for the flight were denied access to lawyers. Detention Action said that due to coverage problems for O2 users, caused by a faulty phone mast, detainees held in two Heathrow centres were not able to call a lawyer in that period. The charity claim no effort has been made to give them alternative SIM cards, despite the government being made aware of the issue in January. Chris Butler, for Detention Action, said this violated the constitutional right to legal representation, which extends to all present in the country. It was said the men had been convicted of 'serious crimes', including manslaughter and firearms offences. Home Office policies state that those marked for deportation should be given a minimum of five working days' notice to seek legal advice. 'This case is about the constitutional right of access to a lawyer,' Mr Butler said.  'No more, no less.' Following the Court of Appeal decision, Boris Johnson had renewed his attack on the judiciary by announcing plans to speed up reform of judicial review. Mr Butler said: 'This is an example of judicial review working as it should. 'The Court of Appeal held there was arguable case that the removal would remove the ancient right of access to lawyer,' said Mr Butler. 'Any government worth its salt appreciates that judicial review is a cornerstone of our constitution. 'A disappointment when the court went against it doesn't justify an attack on the constitution and threats to dismantle it.' The court heard that the mobile signal failure affected not only those set for deportation, but anyone in the Colnbrooke and Harmondsworth detention centres to access a lawyer. Mr Butler said the charity is seeking to establish the right of detainees to a working mobile phone with access to a lawyer. David Manknell, for the Home Office, argued that because the original order blocking the deportation only applied to a specific flight, the proceedings were 'academic'. He said: 'Given the nature of the relief that was granted, this was in effect not temporary relief requiring a return date, but a final order. 'It prevented removal, with finality, of the specified individuals on the flight in question,' said Mr Manknell. 'The Secretary of State's view is that the underlying claim is academic. 'It is academic, that flight is gone, the situation has changed on the ground and alternative measures had been put in place.' The Home Office will make an application for the claim to be dismissed on the basis it is academic by 28 February.   Downing Street had issued a strongly-worded statement on February 11, shortly after the flight departed, criticising the courts and vowing to appeal the deportation ban on the 25 other convicts. No 10 said it made 'no apology for trying to protect the public from serious, violent and persistent foreign national offenders' as it hit out at the judicial system for leaving the taxpayer with 'an even bigger bill' following the Court of Appeal ruling. The Government said 17 foreign criminals with a combined sentence of 75 years and one life sentence were deported on the February 11 charter flight. This includes a combined total of 15.5 years for rape, 16 years for violent offences, almost 29 years for drugs-related offences, including Class A drugs and 14 years for robbery with possession of a firearms: Rape One convicted for rape and given an 11 year sentence One convicted of rape and given a sentence of 4 years and 6 months Violent crime One convicted for a violent assault and given a sentence of 1 year and 3 months One convicted of wounding with intend to cause GBH, possession of a weapon in public place Violent offences against a person (Wounding) 7 years One convicted of a violent crime against a person and given a 8 year sentence Drugs One convicted for intent to supply class A drugs – 7 year sentence One persistent offender, whose most recent conviction was for drugs offences and intimidating a witness and given a total sentence of 11 months One convicted for importing controlled drugs and given a sentence of four years One convicted to supplying class A drugs and given a sentence of four years and six months One convicted to supplying class A drugs and given a sentence of three years One convicted of importing controlled class B drugs and given a three year sentence One convicted of supplying class A drugs (crack cocaine) and given a sentence of 3 years and 2 months One convicted of supplying class A drugs and given a sentence of 3 years and 4 months Robbery and firearm offences One convicted of robbery and give a life sentence One convicted of robbery, firearms offence, theft of a vehicle and possessing class A drugs, given a five year sentence One convicted for conspiracy to rob and possession of a firearm and given a sentence of 9 years Burglary One convicted of burglary and given a prison sentence of 2 years and 6 months It claimed detainees had 'ample access' to other methods of communication during the mobile network outages, including free sim cards upon request, access to landlines and the internet and face-to-face legal surgeries. Among those who were safeguarded from deportation were one offender convicted for manslaughter, one firearms offence and seven violent offenders. The Home Office added: 'We will be urgently pursuing the removal of those who were prevented from boarding the flight due to a legal challenge over a mobile network failure.' The Prime Minister's spokesman said: 'The legal process for removing these offenders, which has included repeated appeals and judicial reviews, has already cost the British public tens of thousands of pounds. 'The taxpayer will now be left with an even bigger bill and the prospect of convicts who are considered to pose a threat to the UK being granted bail while this matter is resolved. 'We make no apology whatsoever for seeking to remove serious foreign national offenders and will be urgently appealing.' The Government already promised to review the judicial review process and is likely to fast-track its efforts following the latest deportation setback.   Reshawn Davis was among those who avoided deportation on February 11 despite being told that he would be sent back to the country of his birth. The 30-year-old, who came to the UK when he was aged 11 and until recently was living in northwest London, was convicted of robbery a decade ago. He has not committed any crime since serving his two-month prison sentence, but claimed he has been treated as if he 'tried to kill the Queen'. His wife Tonique Kerr told the Victoria Derbyshire Show that he was now back at Colnbrook detention centre waiting to hear his fate. 'No one said anything we don't know what's happening,' she said. 'We haven't heard anything and they haven't told him anything either. 'He's not actually not been back to Jamaica since he came to this country so he doesn't know anyone; he's 30 and spent most of his life here.'   Thought to be among the deportees are a 23-year-old man, who arrived in Britain aged five, jailed for 15 months for drug offences and a 40-year-old man jailed for seven years for a stabbing. The court order covered anyone held in two detention centres close to Heathrow - Colnbrooke and Harmondsworth. The judge granted the order without a court hearing following an urgent application on paper by Detention Action. The charity argued that some of the detainees at the two Heathrow centres did not have a functioning mobile phone, following issues with an O2 phone mast in the area. But the order did not apply to Brook House detention centre, close to Gatwick, although campaigners said detainees there had experienced similar problems. According to Detention Action, around 56 people were being held in the two Heathrow detention centres. It is not known exactly how many people were held in Brook House. Under the UK Borders Act 2007, the Home Office must make a deportation order where a foreign national has been convicted of an offence and received a custodial sentence of 12 months or more. This is subject to several exceptions, including where to do so would breach someone's human rights or the UK's obligations under the Refugee Convention. The Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants (JCWI) said the flight had 'forced' families apart, adding that the deportees were 'British in every meaningful way and if the law allows those people to be exiled, it needs to change.' 
