{ By Ciara Farmer and Eve Buckland For Mailonline   Published:  11:58, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8015947/Miss-Beqiri-makes-public-appearance-brother-Flamurs-Christmas-Eve-murder.html }
Real Housewives of Cheshire's Missé Beqiri has made her first public appearance since her brother Flamur's shocking murder on Christmas Eve.  The reality star and model, 33, attended Monday evening's International Woolmark Prize 2020 during London Fashion Week February 2020 at Ambika P3, where she put on a brave face in the wake of the tragedy nearly two months ago. Her outing comes after she broke her social media silence to post: 'Strength is all you taught me', as she went horse-riding with daughter River, two, after her brother Flamur 'Alex' Beqiri, 36, was gunned down in front of his family. Missé joined a host of stars at the event, where she showed her model credentials in all-black in a rare public appearance since the tragedy.  Last month, she broke her silence five weeks after her brother was shot. Following the horse-riding photo, another snap showed the star cradling River, who she shares with fiancé Jake Hall, 29, as the mother and daughter stroked a horse. The mother-of-two also shared a video of the mother and daughter riding the horse before panning to a scenic view of a field.   Last month, a source exclusively told MailOnline that Jake had re-proposed to Missé over the Christmas period in a 'new chapter' for the couple.   They said: 'The incident made them both realise what's most important - family - so it of course brought them closer together. The re-proposal signifies a new chapter for them as a family.'  It has been a heartbreaking time for Missé and her family as they grieve for Alex.  He was peppered with bullets in front of his screaming wife Debora Krasniqi, and his child, outside their £1.5million home in Battersea on Christmas Eve.          Swedish kickboxer Anis Hemissi, 22, from Malmo, Sweden, was arrested at Copenhagen Airport over the death of Alex' on January 20. Father-of-two, Mr Beqiri has been linked to several gangland murders in Sweden where he was once one of the country's most wanted men. Police in Sweden said Mr Hemissi, had been held on a European arrest warrant.  He was picked up by Danish Police as he returned from a trip to Thailand, Swedish newspaper Kvallsposten said.  Mr Beqiri was a Swedish citizen of Albanian origin who had left Malmo for London nearly five years ago.  A spokesman for the Metropolitan Police said: 'A 22-year-old man was arrested at Copenhagen Airport, Denmark, on January 20 on a European Arrest Warrant on suspicion of the murder of Flamur Beqiri.  'He remains in custody in Denmark pending extradition proceedings back to the UK.'   In 2008 Flamur was named as one of Sweden's most wanted men after detectives said he was part of an international drugs smuggling ring who moved £2million of cannabis into Scandinavia.  Police said at the time they believed Mr Beqiri fled a bust at the border in bare feet but the drugs charges were later dropped.  He was instead found guilty of illegally handling smuggled goods including cigarettes and alcohol and given a suspended sentence.  The murder victim said he had no idea the Dutch man carrying 300kg of cannabis in his car and told detectives that the £5,000 cash was for a previous delivery of spirits and tobacco.    An insider in Sweden previously told MailOnline that Mr Beqiri, who moved from Albania to Sweden as a child, was 'heavily linked' to criminals in the Swedish underworld but may have moved to the UK to 'go legit'.    Several of his former associates have also been murdered since his move to Britain. His friend Naief Adawi, 33, who was jailed in 2008 for his role in a multi-million pound heist in Denmark, was targeted by a Syrian gunman outside a falafel shop in Malmo in August last year. He handed his two-month-old baby to his wife, Karolin Hakim, 31, and fled.   Mrs Hakim, who had been a guest at Mr Beqiri's 2018 wedding, was shot in the head and killed but Adawi and the baby survived. In 2008 Mr Beqiri was named as one of Sweden's most wanted men after he was accused of being part of a drug smuggling ring that imported cannabis worth £2million into Scandinavia.   Court documents show he handed himself in two years later but was acquitted of the drugs offence and convicted of the lesser offence of handling alcohol and tobacco that had been smuggled into Sweden. He was given a suspended sentence and a fine.  It was at Misse's wedding to her ex-husband, Manchester United goalkeeper Anders Lindegaard, that Mr Beqiri fell in love with his future wife Mrs Krasniqi. He was said to have proposed after flying their families to a chalet in Kitzbuhel, Austria, where he covered the floor in a 1,000 red rose petals. The wedding featured a lavish ceremony at a hotel on Lake Como, Italy, in October 2018.   
