drugs
{ By Jack Wright For Mailonline   Published:  09:11, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8015377/CCTV-shows-murdered-youth-football-coach-killer-rapes-stabs-NINE-times.html }
Chilling CCTV captured the final moments of Megan Newton's life as she let her killer into her flat just hours before she was brutally raped and murdered. Video shows the 18-year-old football coach giggling with Joseph Trevor, now 19, before inviting him into her bedsit on Fletcher Road in Stoke-on-Trent.  She offered to let Trevor, the son of a former police officer, sleep at her flat after he told her he was too drunk and high on drugs to go home to his parents.    This harrowing footage shows Trevor follow her into her home at 3.45am last April 20, before he raped and strangled Ms Newton and stabbed her nine times.    After the 'sustained and violent' killing, Trevor left her battered, naked body on the bed before letting himself out of her flat two hours later. He can be seen calmly throwing away her front door key in a car park.   Another CCTV camera captured stone-cold killer Trevor, formerly of Trentham, Staffordshire, walking down the street with blood on his right hand. An earlier clip shows Trevor and Ms Newton getting into a taxi after they bumped into each other at the Kiln nightclub in Newcastle-under-Lyme on April 19. Ms Newton had just finished her shift at a chip shop at 10pm before heading home to get changed for a night out to celebrate the start of the bank holiday weekend. Trevor, who she had known at Trentham Academy, was jailed for life after he pleaded guilty to two counts of rape and one of murder at Stafford Crown Court. Earlier in the evening, the semi-professional footballer had been picked up by police after drinking as well as taking ketamine and possibly cocaine.  Officers took him to the police station and confiscated a bag of ketamine before releasing him, telling him he would need to return at a later stage.   Judge Michael Chambers said: 'This remains a brutal and sustained attack committed in a most callous way in her own home. Megan Newton had her whole life before her. She had all the hopes and dreams of an 18-year-old.' Trevor was sentenced to 21 years and 65 days. He was also sentenced to eight years for two counts of rape to run concurrently. The court heard football coach Ms Newton met Trevor who was a semi-professional player and suggested he stay at her room in a supported housing complex. Earlier in the evening he had been drinking as well as taking ketamine and possibly cocaine and had been picked up by police. Officers took him to the police station and confiscated a bag of ketamine before releasing him, telling him he would need to return at a later stage. Hours later while at the Kiln night-spot, Trevor saw Ms Newton who recognised him from school and offered him a place to stay that night. Prosecutor Adrian Keeling said there had been 'no sense of offering him anything sexual at all' when they returned to her flat at around 4am. Mr Keeling said: 'This defendant raped and then murdered Megan Newton in the early hours of April 20 last year at her flat. 'She had invited him back there as an act of kindness because he had got so drunk from drink and drugs that he could not face going home to his parents.  'On CCTV, his appearance leaving the flat was remarkably composed.'  After the killing, Trevor was found by police sitting on a bridge on the A500. He was taken to Harplands Hospital before he was collected by his father, a former officer. After the case, Detective Inspector Cheryl Hannan of Staffordshire Police said: 'Trevor carried out a sustained and violent assault on Megan. 'She had kindly offered him a place to stay overnight because he had taken drugs and had been stopped by police and was worried about returning home. 'In return he attacked and killed her and left her lying in her own bed while he let himself out and told no-one what he had done. 'Megan was a young and gifted teenager who through hard work and dedication had achieved so much with opportunities to achieve so much more. 'Trevor's actions have taken this away from Megan and the chance for her family to see her continue to thrive as a woman who they were rightly so proud of.' In a heartbreaking tribute, Megan's family said: 'The loss of Meg is unbearable.  'We're heartbroken and will always remain so. That will never leave us.  'Meg's life enriched the lives of so many and because of that, she'll never be forgotten and she'll be loved forever. Our beautiful Megan didn't deserve any of this. But she does deserve to now rest in peace.' 
