drugs
{ By Shive Prema For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:16, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8013997/Geelongs-Billy-Jay-Glynn-cannabis-ploughed-Tyler-Dean.html }
A drug driver who had cannabis in his system when he hit and killed a teenager with his car has been fined $650 and disqualified from driving for three months. Father-of-two Billy-Jay Glynn, 23, was found guilty of drug driving at Geelong County Court on Monday after testing positive for cannabis on the night of the 2017 crash.  Mr Dean, from Winchelsea, was riding his motorised bike along Atkins Road in Buckley, southwest of Geelong, when he was hit by a Nissan Patrol with Glynn behind the wheel on the night of October 18, 2017. Mr Dean died at the scene while Glynn drove away, claiming that he thought he hit a kangaroo.   On the night of the crash, Glynn tested positive for cannabis but the evidence was never shown to the jury in his 2018 trial as the prosecution were not able to definitively prove it impaired his driving.  Glynn was found not guilty of dangerous driving causing death and failing to render assistance after an accident during his trial last year.   Four days before the crash, Glynn smoked a cannabis joint with a friend during a camping trip, the court heard on Monday, according to the Geelong Advertiser.  Glynn also claimed the positive drug reading was from taking six bong hits in distress after the crash during a contested hearing last month. Magistrate John Lesser was satisfied the reading was due to smoking before the crash but did not rule out that Glynn could have also smoked cannabis after the collision as well.   Speaking to Glynn during his verdict, Magistrate Lesser said the crash was 'largely outside your control' and hoped he could put the crash behind him. Last month, Mr Dean would have celebrated his 21st birthday with his family if he had not died in the 2017 crash.  Mr Dean's mother Jeynelle Dean-Hayes said she cried with relief after learning Glynn had been found guilty of drug driving. 'This today has given me the peace that I didn't have before. The impact this whole thing has had on our family has been horrific,' Ms Dean-Hayes told the Geelong Advertiser.  'We took our win for today and just cried because no one can understand … just how much those six letters ('guilty') can mean to a family that has lost so much.'      Glynn was previously found found not guilty of dangerous driving causing death and failing to render assistance after an accident during his trial last year.  At the time, Ms Dean-Hayes said she was 'furious' that Glynn faced no consequences for driving around with an illegal substance in his blood.  
