{ By David Lawrance For Dailymail.com and Ryan Parry, West Coast Editor For Dailymail.com and James Desborough For Dailymail.com   Published:  00:09, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8039997/Courtney-Stodden-shows-ex-Doug-Hutchison-hes-missing-FULLY-NUDE-Instagram-post.html }
She will be 'officially divorced' on March 3 of this year. And Courtney Stodden, 25, is already showing her soon-to-be-former husband Doug Hutchison, 59, what he's missing, in a saucy new Instagram post on Monday. The reality TV star covered her ample chest with her arms for the fully nude mirror selfie.  'Be confident and be LOUD! It’s #2020 #bodypositive' the blonde bombshell captioned the post.  The flesh-baring snap comes after Stodden said she plans to lift the lid on the living hell she endured with Green Mile star Hutchison and how her troubles led to her attempting suicide two years ago. In an exclusive interview with DailyMailTV, Courtney said she will also reveal how she turned to drugs to cope with her ex and how she has suffered PTSD since their split. These claims come as Stodden's estranged husband is doing a round of promotional interviews pushing his own memoir in which he tears into his wife claiming she faked a pregnancy and miscarriage for money.  Stodden, who made headlines when at age 16 she married 51-year-old Hutchison in 2011, says that writing passages of her book left her feeling 'sick' and spiritually broken. 'I am working on a book called Blond and Blue, and I will tell my true story from when I was a kid and what lead me into such a crazy life,' she explained. 'It is insane, there are so many behind the scenes things I am going to be revealing. 'I have just been recently honest with myself about these things that have happened behind closed doors, so the public will be shocked about things that I am coming out with.'  Stodden is brimming with excitement over finally divorcing her Hollywood actor Hutchison. 'I am officially divorced March 3 this year, so I'm like yes,' she told DailyMailTV, punching the air with a beaming smile. The actress says that if anyone fails to have sympathy for her words, then 'f**k them', but says writing her memoir has been like 'therapy'. 'I have a ghost writer and we are going to get it published, it's a real thing. I am going through PTSD, literally inside my body. It is crazy,' she said.  
