{ By Chantalle Edmunds For Mailonline   Published:  11:49, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8012265/Transgender-woman-jailed-12-weeks-spitting-officer.html }
A transgender woman who once shoved a policeman onto Tube tracks has been jailed for 12 weeks for spitting at another officer in her latest rampage. Paris Valeta Bregazzi, 32, stormed into a department store in Kensington and smashed a china display before fleeing the shop and attacking a driver on the main road. Picking up objects from the street she threw them at a car waiting at the traffic lights, causing two dents. The owner got out of the vehicle and confronted her but she said she did not care. She then entered a pharmacy and picked up two shopping baskets and threw them at a shopper while screaming they should get their hair braided. In 2018 she was handed a suspended sentence for pushing PC Sam Chegwin onto a Tube line the previous July and jailed weeks later for kneeing PC Florina Russ in the chest. She has previous convictions including assault, harassment and shoplifting designer frocks and handbags dating back to 2007. Jailing Bregazzi for a total of 12 weeks District Judge Michael Snow said: 'You have 90 sets of criminal convictions. 'You are a woman of significant violence. You regularly hit and hurt other people. 'At the time you committed this offence you were subject to supervision. 'Whilst under the influence of drugs - which makes things worse, not better - you damaged property, used baskets as a weapon to throw at the first lady and pushed her against the wall. 'Even more frighteningly, you pushed a woman into the middle of the road. You could have caused her significant danger. 'Finally, you assaulted a sergeant by spitting at him. 'These crimes are so serious only custody can be justified. Bregazzi, appearing by video link, grinned as the sentence was passed and interrupted the judge to ask: 'So when is my release date, then?' Judge Snow replied: 'About six weeks. 'Comply with the courts or you'll be back in more trouble.' Matt Barrowcliffe, prosecuting, said: 'The defendant entered a store on Brompton Road. 'She threw over a table causing china to smash on the floor. The defendant left the store and walked towards the entrance. 'The defendant picked up something from the seats outside and threw them at a car. This caused two dents. 'The driver got out but she responded that she doesn't care. She then went inside a pharmacy, picked up two shopping baskets and threw them at members of the public, shouting at them to get their hair braided.' 'The defendant followed her outside and pushed her to a wall by her shoulders. 'The defendant then shoved another victim, pushing her using her hips and shoulder. She knocked the victim on the floor and into the road. 'When the defendant was taken to the police station she spat at the custody sergeant and was subsequently arrested for assaulting an emergency worker.' Lesley Hayes, defending, said: 'There is evidence of remorse in this case. 'And what's particularly telling is what you heard from the mental health team, that Miss Bregazzi was suffering from withdrawal symptoms. 'She appears to have made efforts, positive efforts, to come off the crystal meth. What could have been the beginning of a turning point has catapulted her back to court. 'She asks you to take into account that she is remorseful, has made efforts and is suffering with borderline personality disorder.' In 2017 Bregazzi was heard angrily shouting at another passenger at Hanger Lane: 'You are just a black African slave, you are a n*****.' When PC Sam Chegwin told her to 'calm down' and pushed her in the chest to keep her away from him, Bregazzi, who had recently had breast implants, dumped the officer down into the tracks. PC Chegwin's head landed two inches from the live rail line but he scrambled back onto the platform and arrested Bregazzi, who told officers she had downed four bottles of Italian bubbly and taken drugs during a wild night out. A train passed through minutes later and the officer was 'extremely fortunate' to not have been killed. Weeks later Bregazzi was arrested for kneeing PC Russ in the chest while being arrested for throwing a brick at a parked car. In an interview she explained she was 'not in a good mood'. Five days after that incident, while on bail, she sprayed Paco Rabanne perfume in the face of security officer Rashpal Mudahar at Waterloo station. Asked why she did it, Bregazzi said: 'She shouldn't have said I smelled, the stupid b***h.' In 2016 she tried on thousands of pounds worth of designer dresses before making off with a £895 Peter Pilotto Kia Print dress. Bregazzi, of Haringey, north London, admitted two counts of criminal damage, one of common assault and one of assaulting a police officer.   
