drugs
{ By Monica Greep For Mailonline   Published:  12:45, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8012283/This-Morning-fans-disheartened-finding-Five-three-piece.html }
This Morning fans were left disheartened to discover that popular 90s group five now only have three members.   Boy band members Scott Robinson, Ritchie Neville, Sean Conlon appeared on the show today alongside members from boybands A1, 911 and Damage to discuss their recent UK reunion tour.  The group - who appeared without Jason 'J' Brown and Richard 'Abs' Breen, now Abz Love -  admitted that performing together is 'better this time around' while insisting that there's no longer any rivalry with their fellow boy bands.  However, viewers quickly noticed that there were only three members of the band on the show and joked that they should change their name to '3hree' rather than '5ive'.  Scroll down for video   Ritchie said: 'We're back on the stage, we're out seeing the people again and it's better this time around.  Scott added: 'It's a bit different, it's like a creche. We have our kids running around, the wives get together and have a few drinks a few laughs.'  Ritchie added of his fellow '90s boy bands: 'There was a bit of rivalry back in the day, but we're cool now.'  While many viewers fawned over their former boyband crushes, many were confused that the group has reformed with only three members.  One wrote: '5ive but there’s only 3 of them. 3hree'.   'Where’s the other two? 5ive were my faves', questioned another.  A third went on: '5ive are on This Morning but there are only 3hree of them.'  More viewers went on to praise the group, with one insisting they 'loved a bit of 5ive' while another said they were 'obsessed' with the group.   Five sold 20 million records in their four years together, and the day after the band officially split in September 2001, Scott, 39, from Essex, tied the knot with girlfriend Kerry Oaker. Eighteen years - and four children - later, the couple are still very much in love, with Scott regularly sharing gushing posts about his beautiful wife on social media. In the years after the split Scott landed roles in a handful of reality shows including 2008's Celebrity Scissorhands, where he made it to the final, and ITV2 series The Big Reunion in 2013.  Meanwhile, Neville, 39, has made occasional appearances as a presenter, guest, actor and reality show contestant.  In January 2014, it was announced that Ritchie would be taking part in celebrity skiing competition The Jump. He finished in third place. He currently tours with Scott and Sean as Five and is active on Twitter, where his profile reads: 'Member of Five, actor, photographer. Love family, motorbikes, adventure, and pork crackling.' Ritchie dated Atomic Kitten singer Natasha Hamilton and the couple welcomed their first child, daughter Ella Rose, in September 2014. They split in March 2016.  After Five disbanded in late 2001, Conlon began been pursuing a solo career as an R&B, jazz and soul singer and pianist in the cafés of London, and was signed to a recording contract. He became the second group member to sign a solo recording deal with Sony, after Abz, and began work on a new album. However soon after work on the album had begun however, he was dropped by the label.  Conlon and his wife, who has kept out of the public eye, welcomed their first child in January 2014. He boasts almost 37,000 followers on Twitter.  Abz Love has spoken candidly of his terrifying battle with drugs and alcohol since leaving the band, revealing he even considered suicide, while Brown maintained a low-key lifestyle after leaving the band.  
