drugs
{ By Stephanie Linning for MailOnline   Published:  11:15, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8012141/Twisted-Wheel-musician-reveals-homeless-six-months-ago-touring-Liam-Gallagher.html }
A musician has told how he went from sleeping rough to touring with Liam Gallagher in just six months. Jonny Brown, 33, first found fame with Manchester indie band Twisted Wheel in the late 2000s, securing a deal with Columbia Records and supporting the likes of Paul Weller and Oasis on stage. But Brown soon became consumed with the excess of the rock 'n' roll lifestyle, developing a drug addiction that led him to homelessness.  'It was just part of the business really, you know late nights and drink and drugs but eventually it did get hold of me,' he said in an interview with Radio 1's Newsbeat.  'I went from being on tour with Oasis, selling out shows and recording in LA to literally being on the street, begging for money, stealing, just really bad things really.' Now Brown has kicked his addiction, reformed the band and is supporting Gallagher, 47, on the European leg of his tour.   'For Liam to give me this chance again it just shows what a great guy he is and how he cares about the music and the real stuff in life,' Brown said. 'He's a true guy and it's a reflection of his great character.'  Twisted Wheel enjoyed early success after forming in 2007, winning critical praise and signing a deal with Columbia Records in Los Angeles in January 2008.  Their first single, She's A Weapon, was released in April 2008 and counted Radio 1's influential DJ Zane Lowe among its supporters.  Rocker Paul Weller was an early fan and invited the band on his summer forest tour in 2009. That same year Twisted Wheel supported Oasis at their Heaton Park gigs.  Liam Gallagher's support continued, with Twisted Wheel invited to support the rocker at Old Trafford in 2018. However Brown found himself growing increasingly dependent on drugs. He told how his lowest point came last year, when he woke to find someone urinating on him on the  street.   Now, just six months later, Brown is in recovery and is focused on making amends for the hurt and destruction he caused while in the throes of his addiction.  He has also refocused on his music career, reforming Twisted Wheel with a fresh line-up of musicians. Their new album, Satisfying the Ritual, will be released next month.  Brown is open in his praise of Gallagher on Instagram.  In a post announcing the tour, Brown wrote: 'We are more than honoured to have been personally invited to support legend and all round top geeza Liam Gallagher around Europe after a handful of supports over the UK and Ireland we earned the chance to tour abroad for the first time in ten years. 'We are more than honoured to be leaving English soil and joining his band on his on going mission to world wide success yet again.' Speaking to the BBC, Brown added: 'I'm very proud of myself but I feel I've got a lot more to do yet, there's a long way to go but I'm well equipped for it and I'm up for it.'  
