drugs
{ By Rachel Mcgrath For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:39, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8040255/Pete-Davidson-confesses-hes-cutter-started-getting-chest-tattoos-cover-self-harming.html }
He's open about his use of drugs and his battles with depression. And now Pete Davidson has made another candid confession - he's a cutter. The comedian and SNL castmember, 26, revealed in an interview posted to YouTube on Monday that he cuts himself to obtain release from his demons. 'It's awesome...  it's not awesome but the feeling of it after - you feel really stupid after but while you’re doing it, it feels really great,' he explained. Davidson added that he started getting tattoos to cover up the cuts and that getting a tattoo also provides the same kind of release.   In an hour-long sit-down with rapper Charlamagne Tha God, Davidson explained that he suffers from bipolar and borderline personality disorder as well as PTSD and takes medication that needs to be adjusted periodically.  Charlemagne asked him how he knows when he needs to get things readjusted.  'Usually when I start, like, cutting,' the stand-up comic responded. 'I cut my chest... that's why I started getting tats on my chest is to, like, cover them.' He went on: 'It's just like a release... whenever you're so manic and upset, sometimes that's the only thing that will work for me.' Davidson recently completed a residential rehab stint in Arizona where, he said, he got sober for two and a half to three week. 'Some people are sad... and the beautiful thing about rehab is that it gets you sober so they can diagnose you properly,' he said.  'They readjusted my s*** and I've been feeling great,' he shared. In the wide-ranging interview, Davidson also spoke about his image as a 'ladies man' having dated, in fairly rapid succession, Ariana Grande, Kate Beckinsale, Margaret Qualley and Kaia Gerber. Addressing his high profile and short-lived engagement to pop star Ariana Grande, he explained he knew their romance was over when her former boyfriend Mac Miller died. The two got engaged in June 2018 following a two-month whirlwind romance. Rapper Miller passed away on September 7, 2018, from an accidental drug overdose. He was 26. In mid-October, Davidson and Grande ended their engagement.   'I pretty much knew it was around over after that,' Davidson said, referring to Miller's death. 'That was really horrible, and I can’t imagine what that s*** is like. All I do know is that she really loved the s*** out of him and she wasn’t putting on a show or anything.' 'I was like, ‘Listen, I get it, do whatever you’ve got to do, I’ll be here.’ I think I said, ‘I’ll be here until you don’t want me to be here,'' he explained. 
