drugs
{ By Carly Johnson For Dailymail.com   Published:  02:04, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8011153/Jessica-Simpson-lets-Hallelujah-reflects-success-memoir-Open-Book.html }
Jessica Simpson is currently on a cross country book tour following release of her tell-all memoir Open Book on February 2. And the 39-year-old took to Instagram on Sunday afternoon to reflect on the journey her personally penned book has taken her on over the past few weeks. 'This is me singing 'Hallelujah' down the hall after finding out my truth not only set me free, but set the lives of so many readers and listeners of Open Book free,' captioned Simpson. She continued: 'Meeting thousands and thousands of you these past 2 weeks has given purpose to my life all over again.' The singer-turned-author began her book tour on February 4 in New York City - eventually taking her to New Jersey, Texas, California, Illinois, and Tennessee. The tour makes its final in Los Angeles, CA on February 22 at the Create & Cultivate Conference. 'My smile was real, my hugs were true, and these memories I will hold so close to my heart forever,' wrote Jessica of meeting her fans face to face. In the midst of endless signings and meet and greets, Simpson learned that her memoir earned a top spot on the New York Times best seller chart, an honor that she holds closely to her heart. 'Thank y'all for helping my bravery break unexpected records and giving me the chance to be heard as a BEST SELLING AUTHOR!!!'   'This is a moment for all of us to share, always and forever, your best friend...Jess,' concluded the With You singer.    Open Book delves into Jessica's history as a top performer from humble beginnings and revealed her battle with alcohol and pills began from deep-rooted issues stemming from being sexually assaulted as a child. She also reveals the difficulties which led to divorcing ex-husband Nick Lachey, and her sobriety journey with husband of five years, Eric Johnson.   Simpson shares three children with Johnson - eldest daughter Maxwell, seven, son Ace, six, and daughter Birdie, 10 months.  'I wrote [Open Book] thinking if it could help one person get through their struggle it would be worth it. To find out that I have sold enough copies to make me the #1 New York Times best seller is humbling and surreal,' she said on Instagram Friday. 'I pray every day that I can use my platform for good. I promise to continue to be open and to lead with my mistakes. I promise to be honest and use the voice that God gave me.'   Simpson shares three children with Johnson - eldest daughter Maxwell, seven, son Ace, six, and daughter Birdie, 10 months. 
