{ By Heather Waugh For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:31, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8010073/Amanda-Bynes-fianc-revealed-Star-engaged-Paul-Michael.html }
Amanda Bynes' husband-to-be has been identified. The 33-year-old star announced her engagement on Friday, showing off a huge diamond ring on her left hand before revealing a photo of the couple together one day later. And now the identity of her new man has been revealed, with The Blast confirming his name is Paul Michael and the couple have reportedly been dating for two or three months after meeting at AA classes. Many fans were doubting whether the engagement was real when the troubled star first revealed it this week. However, multiple news outlets are reporting that the engagement is legit.  'She seems happy' a source told PEOPLE.  The She's The Man star is still under a conservatorship headed by her parents so won't be able to get legally married without a judge signing off on it. A source told The Blast that Bynes' family is aware of the engagement but no one has signed off on the marriage.  The website revealed that Paul is in his 20s and from the San Fernando Valley area of Los Angeles. His father is a prominent doctor in LA. He has some entertainment connections as his brother was reportedly in a reality show about fixing cars. The actress revealed the big news on Valentine's Day by showing off her diamond ring alongside a man's hand with a plain gold band.    'Engaged to tha love of my life,' she wrote in the caption, without identifying the person.  Next up she shared a selfie with her man who stood behind her smiling. The photo was captioned 'Lover'. A day before New Year's Eve, Amanda used her Instagram page to debut a heart tattoo on her left cheek. Then on Saturday, she appeared in another Instagram photo with the same marking on her cheek, apparently disproving the doubters who thought the tattoo may have been temporary.  In the same mirror selfie she appeared to be wearing her engagement ring.  In the past she has been linked to Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane and her Sydney White co-star Matt Long, but did not confirm the rumors.  Amanda, who has struggled with bipolar disorder and addiction over the years, reportedly checked out of a sober living facility alone near the end of last year. Until she finds her own place in Los Angeles, she decided to stay with her parents Lynn and Rick Bynes, according to an Entertainment Tonight insider. During the first half of December, Amanda got permission from a judge to live on her own once she obtains a place to do so. Rick, Lynn and Amanda brought along their conservatorship lawyer Tamar Arminak to the hearing where the judge made this decision. An E! News insider recently insisted she is 'not doing drugs again' and revealed keeping her on the wagon is 'always the concern' among her loved ones. Lynn and Rick currently hold a conservatorship over Amanda and in 2018 the arrangement was lengthened to last until this coming August, The Blast reports. Amanda's past legal problems date back to a driving under the influence charge in 2012 - two years after her last film role in Easy A. In 2013 she got caught smoking marijuana in her building's lobby in New York, then threw her bong out the 36th-floor window when the cops went into her apartment. That same year she started a fire in a stranger's driveway and was placed under psychiatric hold for 72 hours. A year later she made - then took back - sexual abuse allegations against Rick. She explained her decision to make the accusation: 'The microchip in my brain made me say those things but he's the one that ordered them to microchip me.' 
