{ By Nick Fagge For Mailonline   Published:  15:00, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8009825/Brit-tourist-jailed-Egypt-patting-security-guard-thanks-MailOnline-helping-release.html }
A British tourist who was jailed in Egypt for patting an airport security guard on the back has today thanked the MailOnline for helping to secure his release from custody in Egypt.  Tony Camoccio, 51, was held at the notorious Police Station One Hurghada jail for five days after the official falsely accused him of sexual assault, as he headed home from a family holiday at a Red Sea resort. But yesterday a judge brought his nightmare to an end when he ruled there was insufficient evidence to hold Mr Camoccio and released him.  Looking tired and complaining of a sore throat Mr Camoccio, from Sutton, Surrey, was greeted by about half a dozen relatives at Gatwick Airport before being whisked away. Speaking briefly alongside his wife Joan and son Remo, Mr Camoccio said: 'I just want to say thank you to everybody. I am tired, very tired. We just want to get home. All my family are here.  'I just want to thank everybody but I've got to get back home. I've got a really sore throat.' His sister Liz Doody added: 'We are very relieved that we got him home. We appreciate the help from the public and yourselves [MailOnline]. 'The online support was terrific. It really gathered momentum. And thanks very much for everything.'   Mr Camoccio, who runs a window fitting company, had been living in constant fear after his arrest. He was crammed into a filthy cell with 25 other inmates, without regular access to food and water, abused by guards in a prison where beatings are handed out freely. His supporters told how he lay awake at night listening to the screams of other prisoners being tortured and was shaking so much when he first appeared in court that he could not speak.  They launched a huge campaign with an online petition attracting more than 5,000 signatures, as well as protesting outside the Egyptian embassy in Mayfair, London. 'Tony's friends have done him proud,' said Christine Sachett, 68, who has known Mr Camoccio's family for more than 50 years. 'But the whole country has put their support behind the petition and people all over the world have been signing. 'I feel on cloud nine. I could not be happier for Tony, his wife and his children. Tony never deserved any of this. Egypt is definitely not on my list of places to go on holiday.' Mr Camoccio was put in prison in handcuffs after the allegation was made at Hurghada airport on Saturday last week. For two days his family could not get food, water and clothing to him and he slept on a concrete floor in shorts and T-shirt with just a thin blanket. The same jail was described as 'horrendous' by British woman Laura Plummer, 34, from Hull, who spent two months in the prison in 2018, as part of a 14 month sentence for a drugs offence. Ms Plummer said there were fights every night and she witnessed an inmate being tortured. Mr Camoccio was back in court exactly one week later to face the charge, which was recorded as 'harassment' of the security guard, after the local police requested a further 15 days to investigate the alleged assault Mr Camoccio's wife and son were at the court terrified who would be facing another two weeks in Hurghada prison. However, the case collapsed because the prosecution were unable to provide any CCTV evidence to support their claim that Mr Camoccio had tried to push his finger into the security guard's bottom. Mr Camoccio's family had repeatedly asked to see CCTV footage, but the requests were denied. Radha Stirling, of Detained in Dubai, a campaign group that supported Mr Camoccio's family throughout the ordeal, said: 'While the charges were clearly without merit, we have to emphasize that had British authorities and the international press not paid attention to this case, there is no reason to believe that Tony would be a free man today. 'The dangers of legal abuse in Egypt are severe and, despite their quick resolution of this case, anyone considering travel to the country should be aware of the risks.  'As is so often the case for foreigners in the region, unless an international spotlight is shone on their plight, they have no guarantee of safe resolutions when suffering in obscurity.'   
