drugs
{ By Chloe-lee Longhetti For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:31, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8039777/MAFS-breakout-star-Lincoln-Alexander-reveals-battle-anorexia.html }
Married At First Sight's breakout star Lincoln Alexander has bravely revealed his battle with anorexia.  Speaking exclusively to Daily Mail Australia, the hairdresser said that at the height of his eating disorder his weight plummeted from 95kg to just 55kg. Lincoln - who appeared on the show as Natasha Spencer's supportive best friend - recalled how he was 'chubby' growing up and was bullied for being gay and overweight in high school.    'When I was growing up I was always a little on the chubbier side, so when I was in high school I got bullied for being fat, and on top of that bullied for being gay and having bad skin,' Lincoln said.  Believing that being 'skinny' would make him 'happy', Lincoln said he didn't realise how much weight he had lost until a friend said she 'wanted to cry' when she looked at him.   'When I was 21, I literally hardly ate. I had one small meal a day. I knew I was skinny, but not as skinny as everyone was telling me I was,' he explained.  'In the end I got so self-conscious of everyone telling me how sick I looked, or if I was on drugs, I was so embarrassed because of how skinny I was in the end.' 'People telling me how skinny I was was just as bad as people telling me that I was fat,' he added. Lincoln said he turned things around when he started going to the gym, looking after himself and had help with his diet.  He said a personal trainer helped him with his diet and exercise plan.   'Having someone to help me with diet and exercise was a big help because I didn't feel like I had to rely purely on myself and had someone else who was a professional to help me. Now, the end goal isn't to be skinny it's to be healthy, and when you're healthy you're happy,' he said.  Last year, Lincoln shared a picture of himself on Instagram from when he was a teenager, and said he couldn't believe the difference that the gym, a tan and a few years has made to his appearance. Lincoln captioned the post: '2012 me is GAGGING to speak to the manager with that f**king haircut!'  'It's crazy what eight years, a gym membership and a spray tan does!' He added the hashtags 'puberty challenge' and 'can I speak to your manager.'  Lincoln was a breakout star of MAFS earlier this month, when he remarked at best friend Natasha Spencer's wedding to Mikey Pembroke, 29, that she would 'eat him alive.' Going shirtless and donning just a suit jacket on top, Lincoln approached Mikey at the reception to tell him that financial analyst Natasha was an 'alpha-female.'     
