drugs
{ By Joshua Fox For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  09:30, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8008535/Married-Sight-Hayley-Vernon-sobs-David-Cannon-rips-drug-addiction-past.html }
Married At First Sight's Hayley Vernon sobbed uncontrollably as 'husband' David Cannon ripped into her during Sunday's explosive first commitment ceremony. The 32-year-old broke down after David, 31, hit out that he had been matched with a former drug addict and a smoker, implying their 'marriage' could not overcome these things.  Relationship expert John Aiken was forced to intervene and reprimand David for 'judging Hayley over her past' - before she delivered an empowering speech.  The couple immediately started clashing after taking a seat in front of the experts, as David slammed Hayley for smoking, despite this 'being a deal-breaker' for him.  In response, Hayley explained: 'Because of this situation I've been stressed beyond belief that I bought my first packet [of cigarettes] in a year - and I do feel bad.'  David then referenced the couple's honeymoon fight, where Hayley is said to have 'shamed him' off-camera for his $25-an-hour wage as a truck driver in Melbourne.   'It was a joke, a flippant remark and I feel really bad for saying it. Money isn't an issue,' Hayley hit back, while interrupting her partner.  A fuming David spat in response: 'I was in the middle of saying something and I am tired of being cut off and tired of not speaking my truth. If you think for a second I'm going to have someone deliberately take a swipe at me.... ' Expert John then cut him off, saying: 'We need to find out why this isn't working.' Hayley hit back: 'Because I'm a money hungry w***e apparently - which I'm not!' As they continued clashing, David exclaimed: 'Hayley is somebody that I've felt has been rude and inconsiderate and not let me speak or finish.  'She can't change her past with drugs, and I accept that, so I can let that slide. So here I am with a recovering drug addict that's a smoker.' His comment stunned the experts and other couples, as Hayley started to sob.  'Oh my god, I can't believe you just said that. I'm a recovered drug addict,' she cried, hurt that David said 'recovering' - implying she still struggles with substances. 'I'm not my past. You're saying it like it's a bad thing that you've been matched with me because of that. I am such a good egg - this situation has brought out the worst in me because it has been such high pressure. 'But for you to say that. I am a recovered drug addict and the [experts] can attest to that. I've done so much work on myself to get to where I am today.' John then intervened again, and reprimanded David for his shocking outburst.  'David, this is for you. Hayley has in the past had issues with substances. In the past, but not now. She is someone who was very resilient, just like you, who had a huge amount of time for personal growth and development,' he sternly said. 'You can't judge Hayley by her past. She is not chained by it.' As the couple continued their argument, while speaking over John who was trying to diffuse the situation, Hayley apologised for her remarks about David's wages.   'For her to say that in front of everybody, that does mean a lot to me,' replied David. Hayley went on to deliver an empowering speech about overcoming her struggles in life, after developing an eight-year addiction to meth at just 19-years-old. Speaking to the group, she said: 'Everyone in my life knows that I was a drug addict. That's why I am not ashamed to come into the experiment and say that.  'The moments that I had back then define who I am right now. I learned a lot about people, a lot about the world and a lot about who I am as a person. I'm not ashamed. 'A lot of Australian families are dealing with the same thing, and if I can come on to Married At First Sight and someone can see my situation - that I have my own Port Melbourne house, that I'm a finance broker and have my s**t together - and they've got hope too, then it's all well and good.' She was applauded by the relationships experts and the other couples.  The episode ended with both Hayley and David choosing to stay in the experiment, and hopeful for the week ahead after putting their differences aside.       Married At First Sight continues Monday at 7.30pm on Channel Nine  
