{ By Carly Johnson For Dailymail.com   Published:  07:11, 16 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8009251/Matthew-Perrys-girlfriend-Molly-Hurwitz-confirms-relationship-tribute-shared-Instagram.html }
Matthew Perry's girlfriend has confirmed their relationship. The actor's girlfriend Molly Hurwitz, 28, publicly referenced their relationship on Valentine's Day when she took to her Instagram page to pen a sweet tribute to Perry, 50. 'Second year being my valentine, but his first as an Instagram influencer. HVD to my favorite,' captioned Hurwitz, as reported by People magazine. Along with the talent manager's loving words was a photograph of Matthew appearing to be sound asleep, while cradling a bright yellow smiley face balloon.  The same image is currently being used as Perry's Instagram profile icon.  The thoughtful posting was featured on Hurwitz's private page.  Matthew joined his lover on Instagram on February 7 when he launched his official account. His relationship became public knowledge in November when he and Molly were unknowingly photographed together outside a restaurant in West Hollywood. The couple spent the 2019 Holiday season together in Los Angeles at Perry's $35million Century City apartment in Los Angeles.  At the time, Hurwitz shared a photograph of herself and the Friends alum to Instagram, labeling him as her 'boyfriend' in the post's caption.   'According to my parents' custody agreement, my mother was not allowed to have a Christmas tree... Fortunately, there's no such agreement for a daughter's boyfriend, so Hurwitz gets a treeeeeeee!!!,' joked the 28-year-old. Comic Perry has had a highly publicized battle with drugs and alcohol since he skyrocketed to fame in the 1990s. He has been single since he ended his six year relationship with Masters of Sex actress Lizzy Caplan in 2012.  Meanwhile, according to Hurwitz's career bio on stage32.com, 'Molly began her career in ICM Partners agency mailroom, which, yes, included actually delivering mail. Her favorite show is "Frasier", and her favorite movie is BEST IN SHOW.' 
