drugs
{ By Alana Mazzoni For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:11, 15 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8008187/Fight-club-involving-students-Geelong-Grammar-School-shut-down.html }
Students at Geelong Grammar, one of Australia's most prestigious schools, have been involved in an organised fight club inside one of its boarding houses. The co-ed Anglican school, an hour's drive southwest of Melbourne, told parents 'many' students in the Cuthbertson boys' boarding house joined in on 'boxing bouts' after the lights went out. The $83,000 per year school, where Prince Charles studied for two semesters in 1966, sent a letter to parents last Wednesday confirming the illicit fights.  'There were many students involved and we have established the understanding that no one student is more responsible than any other,' the letter from school leaders, obtained by the Herald Sun, read. 'Whilst our understanding from the many boys we have spoken with, is these bouts were not intended to cause harm and occurred out of an understanding this was expected or normalised behaviour, it is not something we condone or want within any aspect of our school environment.' It's understood fights in the boarding house were a tradition in the school, which was founded in 1855. Participants would place pillows and mattresses on the floor to act as a 'boxing ring' for the fights. It's also believed a senior student broke his hand during a bout earlier this year. The kindergarten to year 12 school said the fighting ring went against its core values.  'If there has previously been any lack of clarity about the appropriateness of such activities, we wish now to very clearly articulate our priority is always child safety. Actions which contravene this priority will not be tolerated,' the letter said. The letter went on to say staff will work closely with students, particularly those in Cuthbertson House, to 'stamp out anti-social behaviour.'  The elite school has been plagued by scandal in recent months.  In September last year, drugs were found in another boarding house on campus while students were back home for a weekend break. Then in October, a female student claimed she was orally raped by a male pupil in a study room. The teenager, 18, reported the alleged incident, which took place in August, to police who said there was not enough evidence to prosecute.  The girl's father said he was 'outraged' over the school's handling of the alleged incident.    
