drugs
{ By Christine Rendon and Sameer Suri For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:37, 15 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8008239/Amanda-Bynes-appears-unveil-fiance-poses-lover.html }
Amanda Bynes appears to have unveiled her fiance. The 33-year-old posted a photo of herself posing beside a smiling man on Saturday.  The photo was captioned 'Lover', and comes just one day after Amanda announced her engagement to a mystery man. The actress revealed the big news by showing off her diamond ring alongside a man's hand with a plain gold band.    'Engaged to tha love of my life,' she wrote in the caption, without identifying the person she has decided to marry. A day before New Year's Eve, Amanda used her Instagram page to debut a slightly slanted heart tattoo on her left cheek. Then on Saturday, she appeared in another Instagram photo with the same marking on her cheek, apparently disproving the doubters who thought the tattoo may have been temporary.  In the same mirror selfie she appeared to be wearing her engagement ring.  In the past she has been linked to Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane and her Sydney White co-star Matt Long, but did not confirm the rumors.  Amanda, who has struggled with bipolar disorder and addiction over the years, reportedly checked out of a sober living facility alone near the end of last year. Until she finds her own place in Los Angeles, she decided to stay with her parents Lynn and Rick Bynes, according to an Entertainment Tonight insider. During the first half of December, Amanda got permission from a judge to live on her own once she obtains a place to do so. Rick, Lynn and Amanda brought along their conservatorship lawyer Tamar Arminak to the hearing where the judge made this decision. An E! News insider recently insisted she is 'not doing drugs again' and revealed keeping her on the wagon is 'always the concern' among her loved ones. Lynn and Rick currently hold a conservatorship over Amanda and in 2018 the arrangement was lengthened to last until this coming August, The Blast reports. Amanda's past legal problems date back to a driving under the influence charge in 2012 - two years after her last film role in Easy A. In 2013 she got caught smoking marijuana in her building's lobby in New York, then threw her bong out the 36th-floor window when the cops went into her apartment. That same year she started a fire in a stranger's driveway and was placed under psychiatric hold for 72 hours. A year later she made - then took back - sexual abuse allegations against Rick. She explained her decision to make the accusation: 'The microchip in my brain made me say those things but he's the one that ordered them to microchip me.' 
