{ By Charlie Walker For Mailonline   Published:  13:58, 15 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8007335/British-tourist-slung-filthy-cell-patting-male-airport-security-guard-RELEASED.html }
British tourist Tony Camoccio who was jailed in Egypt for patting an airport security guard on the back has been released, Mail Online can reveal. Mr Camoccio, 51, was slung into the notorious Police Station One Hurghada jail after the official falsely accused him of sexual assault, as he headed home from a family holiday at a Red Sea resort. But today a judge at the court in Hurghada brought his nightmare to an end when he ruled there was insufficient evidence to hold Mr Camoccio and released him. Mr Camoccio was taken from the court to a local police station to prepare for his release and his lawyer said he is expected to return to his home in Sutton, Surrey, tomorrow evening after he has paid bail of 20,000 Egyptian pounds (just under £1,000). An extremely relieved Mr Camoccio told Mailonline: 'I'm very excited to be heading home and can't wait to see all of my family and rest after the past week's events. 'I'm very thankful to everyone for their support, my friends and family, my lawyer Elezab Ali Elezab, John Kenny from the consulate and Radha Stirling who have done their best to get me home'.  'I'll give him that, and I would have paid a lot more than that to get him out' said his dad, Peter Camoccio, 73, who was preparing to fly out to help Tony's wife, Joan, and son, Remo, who have fought for his release in Egypt. 'I am over the moon. It is so, so good. I don't know what I would have done if he had not got out. I don't know if I would have been able to take it. 'I am elated. It's Christmas and birthdays altogether. Now I'm going to get drunk.' Mr Camoccio, who runs a window fitting company, has lived in constant fear since his arrest seven days ago. He has been crammed into a filthy cell with 25 other inmates, without regular access to food and water, abused by guards in a prison where beatings are handed out freely. His supporters told how he lay awake at night listening to the screams of other prisoners being tortured and was shaking so much when he first appeared in court that he could not speak. They launched a huge campaign with an online petition attracting more than 5,000 signatures, as well as protesting outside the Egyptian embassy in Mayfair, London. 'Tony's friends have done him proud,' said Christine Sachett, 68, who has known Mr Camoccio's family for more than 50 years. 'But the whole country has put their support behind the petition and people all over the world have been signing. 'I feel on cloud nine. I could not be happier for Tony, his wife and his children. Tony never deserved any of this. Egypt is definitely not on my list of places to go on holiday.' Mr Camoccio was put in prison in handcuffs after the allegation was made at Hurghada airport on Saturday last week. For two days his family could not get food, water and clothing to him and he slept on a concrete floor in shorts and T-shirt with just a thin blanket. The same jail was described as 'horrendous' by British woman Laura Plummer, 34, from Hull, who spent two months in the prison in 2018, as part of a 14 month sentence for a drugs offence. Ms Plummer said there were fights every night and she witnessed an inmate being tortured. Mr Camoccio was back in court exactly one week later to face the charge, which was recorded as 'harassment' of the security guard, after the local police requested a further 15 days to investigate the alleged assault Mr Camoccio's wife and son were at the court terrified who would be facing another two weeks in Hurghada prison. However, the case collapsed because the prosecution were unable to provide any CCTV evidence to support their claim that Mr Camoccio had tried to push his finger into the security guard's bottom. Mr Camoccio's family had repeatedly asked to see CCTV footage, but the requests were denied. They are now celebrating in a hotel in Hurghada. Radha Stirling, of Detained in Dubai, a campaign group that supported Mr Camoccio's family throughout the ordeal, said: 'While the charges were clearly without merit, we have to emphasize that had British authorities and the international press not paid attention to this case, there is no reason to believe that Tony would be a free man today. 'The dangers of legal abuse in Egypt are severe and, despite their quick resolution of this case, anyone considering travel to the country should be aware of the risks.  'As is so often the case for foreigners in the region, unless an international spotlight is shone on their plight, they have no guarantee of safe resolutions when suffering in obscurity.'   
