drugs
{ By Niomi Harris For Mailonline   Published:  16:52, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8004873/Lena-Dunham-cuts-glamorous-figure-makes-catwalk-debut-16Arlington-LFW-show.html }
As an actress, she's used to lighting up the screen in her various TV and film roles. But Lena Dunham shone in an altogether different way as she made her catwalk debut in the 16Arlington show during London Fashion Week on Friday. The Girls star, 33, cut a glamorous figure in a dramatic gold and black gown while showcasing the fashion brand's Fall/Winter 2020 collection. Lena's eye-catching dress featured a black leather ruched top-half which extended across the bust and down one arm. The lower half of the number featured a billowing black skirt adored with a shimmering gold floral pattern finished with a red trim. The Camping actress added a pair of semi-sheer black tights and boosted her height with black Mary Jane heels.  Lena finished her look with an elaborate white and diamond necklace. The star's cropped raven tresses were styled into a side-parting, while she upped the glam with a bold red lip.  The fashion label's co-founders Marco Capaldo and Kikka Cavenati opened up to Harper's Bazaar on what it's like to work with Lena after her stylist originally approached them to dress her for her role on Once Upon A Time in Hollywood.  Kikka said: I grew up watching Girls, so we were so excited about it. Lena takes fashion seriously, but has so much fun at the same time, and that’s what we do. We take what we do seriously, but we also have fun with it. We just got on really well.' While Marco added: 'She dresses for herself. We’ve been lucky to work with such powerful women from the beginning – women who are changing the world for a better place and Lena is a prime example of that. 'She embodies this spirit of power and intelligence. Everything we stand for as a brand, she ticks every box for us.'      Len'a runway appearances comes after she revealed she secretly got engaged to a mystery man, shortly after splitting with four-time Grammy winner Jack Antonoff in December 2017. The Golden Globe winner's boyfriend 'proposed with the lace of a Timberland boot while they were snowed in at her parent's apartment.' 'I'd just had a hysterectomy, I'd broken up with my boyfriend, I was in the process of breaking up with my business partner [Jenni Konner] – I had no business buying a pair of shoes, [let alone] getting engaged,' Lena admitted in the March edition of Cosmopolitan UK. 'Then I just went, "You know what? I've been dating since I was 15 years old. I'm allowed to take a break." Sobriety for me means so much more than just not doing drugs, it also means that I abstain from negative relationships.  'It means I've taken a hiatus from dating, which has been amazing for me. I think it's been 14 months now that I've just been totally single.' Dunham was pictured canoodling a few mystery men that year, but it's unclear precisely who she said yes to in 2018. Looking back, the Oberlin College grad thinks she and the 35-year-old Bleachers frontman 'had a great ride' during their five-year romance, which began on a blind date in 2012.  'We cared for each other, but you know what? We were both starting our careers and that was our true passion. The love you have for someone doesn't disappear because you don't have them; it's just logistically it doesn't work any more,' Lena explained. 'I love him so much. He is a dear, dear friend of mine. Has it been easy every second? No, it's not easy to divide life with someone. There are definitely moments where I was catty, rude or sassy, but he has been beautifully accepting of those and I've been able to be accepting of his anger too. 'What's really nice is we don't try to pretend that we don't have this history together, but we're also willing to move forward.' 
