drugs
{ By Camilla Canocchi for Thisismoney.co.uk   Published:  11:49, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8004047/Drugs-giant-Astrazeneca-warns-coronavirus-impact-business-sales-slow-down.html }
Astrazeneca has warned that the impact from the novel coronavirus outbreak could last  'a few months' and revealed profits fell while sales slowed down at the end of last year.  The FTSE 100-listed drugs giant said the Covid-19 - the new name for the virus - could hit profits in its fastest growing market China, with sales rising 35 per cent there last year.     Astrazeneca shares closed 4.2 per cent lower at £73.  Over the year, group sales rose 15 per cent to $23.5billion (£18billion), but slowed down in the last quarter of 2019, rising just 9 per cent compared with an 18 per cent rise in the third quarter.  For the year ahead, Astrazeneca expects sales to increase by a 'high single digit rate to low double digit mark', but it will very much depend on the health emergency in China.  'All guidance assumes an unfavourable impact from China lasting up to a few months as a result of the recent novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak,' the group said.  It added it would 'monitor closely' the development of the epidemic and would provide more info at its first quarter trading update.   Pre-tax profit fell by 67 per cent to $240million (£184milion) in the fourth quarter, as it annual pre-tax profit also fell 22 per cent lower to $1.54billion (£1.18billion).      Bosses at the Cambridge-based business added that sales in its three therapy areas of oncology, cardiovascular, renal and metabolism (CVRM) and respiratory grew during the year by 44 per cent, 9 per cent and 10 per cent respectively. Chief executive Pascal Soriot said: 'Results from our new medicines and emerging markets accompanied positive news for patients, most recently including regulatory approvals of Enhertu in breast cancer and Calquence in leukaemia. 'Our collaborations also progressed at pace, including that with Daiichi Sankyo, while there were several regulatory approvals for new medicines in China at the end of the year, such as Lynparza in first-line ovarian cancer.' Last week, British rival GSK said it had not faced much disruption in the short term to its supply chain, but was monitoring the situation.  The coronavirus, which has killed over 1,300 people, has continued to spread this week, with Chinese health authorities reporting more than 5,000 new cases.  Russ Mould at AJ Bell thinks Astrazeneca should be able to weather any coronavirus-related storm, having reinvented itself in recent years and shifted its focus on developing treatments that are harder for rivals to replicate.  'Perhaps a more worrying issue on the horizon is the US political anger on drug pricing,' Mould said.  'Such pressures are likely to intensify as the US Presidential election campaign gathers speed. The pharmaceutical industry seems like an easy target as politicians try and find ways to secure votes. Lowering drug prices would be seen as a major victory in the public's eyes.'   
