drugs
{ By Charlie Moore For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:16, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8039371/Drunk-drugged-unlicensed-driver-filmed-taking-Uber-banned.html }
An Uber passenger who filmed himself taking the wheel of a taxi has been banned from the app - as police say they are searching for him. The unidentified man filmed himself ordering the driver to swap places with him on a journey through north Sydney.   In the footage, the man - who claims he has been drinking and taking drugs for four days - orders the driver to pull over and then films himself at the wheel.   The video was shared on WhatsApp groups and last week published by Daily Mail Australia on Monday. Uber has now confirmed the passenger has been banned from the app. A spokesman told Daily Mail Australia: 'Threatening, rude or aggressive behaviour is a clear breach of our Community Guidelines. 'We have a number of safety features in the driver app, including an emergency button which links drivers with emergency services and counselling support available for both drivers and riders.' No official complaint has been lodged but police are urging anyone who knows the man to help identify him. NSW Police Chief Inspector Phillip Brooks told 7NEWS the incident is 'stupid, dangerous, reckless behaviour on so many levels'.   The footage begins with the man in the passenger seat claiming his Uber driver has got lost in north Sydney. 'I'm on my way to Dover Heights. This guy here, see him? Say hi to the f***ing camera,' the aggressive man shouts at the driver. 'He's taken me over the Harbour Bridge, he's taken me all around Sydney, doesn't know where the f*** he's going. 'He's never going to drive Uber again in his life, it's his last trip. 'We're in North Sydney now,' the man says, panning his camera to show the view out of the windscreen. The man then starts demanding to drive. 'Pull over the car I want to drive. Pull over, I'm driving. Otherwise I'm gonna f***ing cancel your Uber account.' The driver continues on the journey as the man repeats his demands to be let behind the wheel. 'Just pull the f***ing car over,' the man yells before the driver eventually submits. The man then films himself getting out of the car and walking to the driver's side.  'Just trust me,' the man says repeatedly before the driver eventually lets him behind the wheel. The video then shows the man driving and saying 'I am the Uber driver.  'This is the first time in history that I am driving the Uber car,' the man says. The former driver can be heard pleading with him to turn his phone off: 'Brother, don't film,' he says, leaning over.  The man tries to reassure him, saying: 'Trust me brother.  'Put your seatbelt on. Do you want a mint, do you want a bottle of water,' the man says to with his new passenger who tells him 'brother I'm sorry I'm calling Uber'.  The man then puts his phone between his legs and films himself as he drives. 'How the f*** did you let me drive the Uber,' he says to his new passenger. 'I've been drinking alcohol for four days. Four days, I'm over the limit. I've been taking drugs for four days. I don't have a f***ing licence. If the police see me driving I'm going to go to jail for ten f***ing years. 'And you let me f***ing drive your Uber car,' the man says as he pans the camera to show the former driver who smiles and tries to cover his face. 'Are you f***ing crazy or what man? Huh? Are you crazy? 'This Uber driver let me drive the car. He doesn't know if I'm licensed, if I'm over the limit. This is gonna go on Channel 7 News. 'He'll be going to jail for the next 30 years. How could you let me drive this car? How?'  The passenger, who is focused on the road, then tells the man to turn off. 'He's giving me directions,' the driver laughs. 'He's giving me directions on where to go. I'm driving the Uber.' It is not clear when the video was filmed but it has been shared on Whatsapp groups since Saturday.  New South Wales Police said it is unable to comment without more information. An Uber spokesman said: 'The passenger who filmed this video has had his access to the Uber apps removed.  'Threatening, rude or aggressive behaviour is a clear breach of our Community Guidelines. 'We have a number of safety features in the driver app, including an emergency button which links drivers with emergency services and counselling support available for both drivers and riders.'  
