drugs
{ By Frances Mulraney For Dailymail.com   Published:  04:39, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8002633/Ashley-Judd-blasts-misogynistic-savages-mocked-physical-appearance-Warren-campaign.html }
Ashley Judd has hit back at the 'misogynistic savages' who insulted her physical appearance in a recent Elizabeth Warren campaign video. The actress was mocked for her 'puffy' face with Twitter users accusing her of using too much Botox in the campaign video which was released on Tuesday. But Judd, 51, has now hit back at her critics, and revealed that 'siege migraines' which have lasted more than four months have forced her to stop exercising and - led to her using Botox as treatment.   She said her recent weight gain was due to orders from the doctor to forgo any exercise except mild walking, as she slammed 'the patriarchy and all who participate in it' in an essay posted to Facebook.   The Warren campaign video was released on Tuesday as the New Hampshire primary was underway and Judd can be seen calling donors to speak further about Warren and her policies.  The 'Kiss the Girls' star was instantly criticized for her physical appearance with Twitter users responding to say she was once 'beautiful' but is now 'puffy'.   'What has the once beautiful Ashley Judd done to herself? Good lord she’s puffy!' one user wrote, while another said, 'I've heard of plastic surgery, but this puffy-rubber surgery is a new one to me. Yikes.'  'What the actual f--k happened to Ashley Judd's face,' another exclaimed.  Among the critics appeared to be 'Superman' actor Dean Cain who reposted the video writing, 'I’m not exactly sure what to say here ... I certainly have nothing positive to say, so I’ll be quiet'.  Judd responded to the criticism of her appearance on Thursday night, penning an essay about the 'misogynistic hullabaloo' on Facebook and sharing it across social media.  'Some of my reflections concerning the misogynistic hullabaloo that has recently swirled around me,' she wrote on Twitter.  In her essay, Judd described the hateful messages as a 'gendered way to distract from my political speech', explaining the medical situation that caused her 'puffy' appearance and admitting it involved Botox. 'What I know is that I have been sick with siege migraines for over a year, and that migraine affects one in four households in the US. It's the third most common disease in the world,' she writes. According the American Migraine Foundation, there is no type of migraine that is defined as a 'siege migraine' listed among the more than 100 different types of headaches.   But from her Facebook post, Judd appears to be suffering from chronic migraines, where she can suffer from a migraine for months on end.  Migraine is a disabling disease that affects more than 36 million Americans. Patients with a chronic migraine have a headache more than 15 days a month, meaning they are more likely to be suffering with a migraine than not. More than four million Americans suffer with chronic migraine, enduring debilitating migraine pain and neurological symptoms.   Using acute headache pain medications with a chronic headache can also worsen symptoms as taking the medication for more than 10-15 days per month can actually lead to even more frequent headaches.   Triggers can include stress, certain foods, skipping meals, smell, dehydration, time zone changes and menstruation.   Botox was approved by the FDA in 2010 as a preventative treatment for chronic migraines and the American Migraine Foundation reports that patients are reporting its success.  In fact, Onabotulinumtoxin A (Botox) is the only FDA-approved preventive treatment for chronic migraine. It aims to reduce the frequency and severity of headache attacks. Other preventative treatments include anti-seizure medications, anti-depressants and blood pressure medications.   'The more frequent the headaches, the better the patient does with Botox,' said Dr. Andrew Blumenfeld, Director of The Headache Center of Southern California.  Other treatments for chronic migraine include addressing risk factors such as depression, anxiety, snoring, and obesity.  She added that she receives 31 injections of Botox every twelve weeks for the ailment. 'Have I had botox? It is a standard treatment for the ailment that I experience. My union insurance pays for thirty-one injections every twelve weeks,' she admits.  'Earlier this year, my neurologist pain specialist banned me from anything but mild walking exercise. My last siege migraine lasted a grueling four and a half months. Along with medication, and the inevitable laziness that gathers around forced inertia, I have experienced some un-fun weight gain.'  Back in August 2019 was the first time that Judd publicly commented on her social media accounts about her 'siege migraine treatment' posting a photo of herself on Facebook in which she claimed to have been suffering from a migraine for the past eleven days and was receiving treatment.  'I’ve had a siege migraine now for 11 days and am in hospital for treatment but my mood is good because I am aware of my many blessings and my friend brought me a stunning homemade peach pie,' she wrote.  According the American Migraine Foundation, there is no type of migraine that is defined as a 'siege migraine' but the symptoms Judd presents appear to point to a 'chronic migraine', with which sufferers have a headache more than 15 days in a month, although not necessarily in a row.  Botox was approved by the FDA in 2010 for chronic migraines and the American Migraine Foundation reports that patients are reporting its success as a treatment.  Onabotulinumtoxin A (Botox) is the only FDA approved preventive treatment for chronic migraine.  'The more frequent the headaches, the better the patient does with Botox,' said Dr. Andrew Blumenfeld, Director of The Headache Center of Southern California. Judd has previously spoken out about critics of her appearance after an experience of her body changing on steroids. She featured in a TED talk in which she claimed that both men and women take part in the patriarchy with their complaints about women who don't fit into mainstream beauty standards.  Judd reiterated these opinions in her Facebook essay saying that 'the misogynistic savages of both sexes have come out' to engage in 'woman bashing'.  'What I know is that misogynists on Twitter have been slaughtering me compared to my pre-weight gain idealized self. My conventionally thin, athletic, "pretty" AcroYoga body, and more slender face, is merely the flip side of the same patriarchal coin,' she continued.  'Those of you who are talking about my female appearance, making assessments about my worth and desirability are basing your opinions on wholly gendered norms. The good news for my empowered self is I don't take compliments any more seriously than I do slurs.'  Judd has admitted to taking steroids for a medical condition as far back as 2012 and other users pointed out that the prescription pills can lead to swelling such as the actress appears to be experiencing. While Judd cleared up what actually caused the swelling on Thursday, in response to the insults, prescription steroid users had previously begun sharing their own inspiring stories, as well as photos of themselves looking more swollen as a result of the drugs.  The common prescription steroid 'prednisone' began to trend alongside 'Ashley Judd' as more and more people joined in the inspiring movement.  'Ashley I’m no fan of @ewarren or the Democrat party but I just want you to know you’re beautiful. My son is on prednisone for autoimmune hepatitis and he had the same side effects. It’s temporary and those saying negative things are complete scum,' one response read.   'So, disappointingly, #Prednisone is trending b/c people are making s----y comments about Ashley Judd's appearance. I know that prednisone can certainly cause swelling but I honestly don't even see it on Ashley Judd. Her face looks better than mine on my best day, by far.'  'Everybody mocking Ashley Judd right now is ableist trash... People like you are the reason why everyone felt comfortable bullying me as a disabled kid who regularly took #prednisone to keep my chronic illness at bay,' said one steroid user.  Healthy self-esteem. Good boundaries. Unshakable knowledge of self. These things are essential when I wake up & learn from caring friends that my appearance has been trending on Twitter. The misogynistic savages of both sexes have come out, as have plenty of folks who empathize and see it for what it is (woman bashing). I find it a gendered way to distract from my political speech: the hate happened in response to a video in support of the Presidential candidate of my choice. What I know is that I have been sick with siege migraines for over a year, and that migraine affects one in four households in the US. It's the third most common disease in the world. We all either have them or know someone who does. We all lose control over the experience of our bodies on occasion and need grace when we do. You will have it from me when you do. Have I had botox? It is a standard treatment for the ailment that I experience. My union insurance pays for thirty-one injections every twelve weeks. (Some friends suggested that I not post this medical fact, because it can be excerpted and used against me, but I think it's honest and real and is a public health message. Shame on anyone who distorts my words.) Earlier this year, my neurologist pain specialist banned me from anything but mild walking exercise. My last siege migraine lasted a grueling four and a half months. Along with medication, and the inevitable laziness that gathers around forced inertia, I have experienced some un-fun weight gain. Just recently, my doctor gave me medical clearance to return to exercise. It has been joyful to resume running, yoga, and vigorous hiking, and I am already benefiting from everything that comes with movement. I've made a date with my favorite half-marathon in early June. What I know is that misogynists on Twitter have been slaughtering me compared to my pre-weight gain idealized self. My conventionally thin, athletic, "pretty" AcroYoga body, and more slender face, is merely the flip side of the same patriarchal coin. Those of you who are talking about my female appearance, making assessments about my worth and desirability are basing your opinions on wholly gendered norms. The good news for my empowered self is I don't take compliments any more seriously than I do slurs. I also know that as a cis white woman, the hate I get is pretty generic compared to women of color, to my friends in the LGBTQIA+ communities, and those of diverse lived experiences. My self-worth and value are neither based on being built up nor on being torn down. Both moves are equally capricious. My earnest wish for all of us — because I know my experience is far from unique — is that when women speak up, we still get beaten up. Speak up anyway. The slings and arrows will come, but your voice and the body from which it comes is beautiful, courageous, powerful, and necessary. For me, exercise and wellness are about freedom, vitality, and choice. Just as being of service to others, and participating in incredible adventures like keeping up with the bonobos in the rain forest of the Congo, and traveling the world with organizations that work to help women and girls thrive — who are fighting against gender and sexual-based violence. Not about pursuing ideals so that others may approve of me. Conversations about our female bodies will continue to roar — both about us and outside of us. What I know for sure is that my peace is on the inside, in spite of the patriarchy and all who participate in it, male and female. And to those for whom this is obvious and redundant, thank you. I feel you.         
