drugs
{ By Laura Fox For Mailonline   Published:  00:58, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8002421/Justin-Bieber-tells-wife-Hailey-woes-bedroom.html }
Justin Bieber has revealed that he tells his wife Hailey to channel her woes into their active sex life. Speaking ahead of the release of his new album Changes, the singer, 25, admitted that in one of his songs he tells the model, 23, to 'take out' her upsets on him 'in the sack.' Justin's admittance comes just days after he revealed that he and Hailey have sex 'all day,' after the couple exchanged vows in a lavish ceremony in South Carolina in September.  As he spoke about his relationship with Hailey, Justin told The Sun that the song Take It Out On Me is a message to his wife that she doesn't have to hide her frustrations from him. He said: 'At times we all get frustrated and upset. I'm letting my wife know that whatever is happening, however she feels, she can take it out on me — you know, in the sack, if you know what I mean.' Gushing about his love for Hailey - who he legally married in 2018 before tying the knot again in an official ceremony in September 2019 - Justin said he's dedicated his entire album to her. He added: 'It's one thing to be attracted physically, but now I know it's really more about being attracted to the whole of a person — to who they are. That's what I've found now.'  The Baby hitmaker added that despite a turbulent life and career he feels at peace after finding his faith again, and finds solace through attending church with wife Hailey. He added that he's embracing life and all its challenges after his pal Kobe Bryant was killed in a helicopter crash last month. Justin's revelations came after he spoke about his marriage to Hailey in a Q and A following an intimate performance of his new album at Indigo at The O2 Arena in London earlier this week. He said: 'So when I'm with my wife, we like to ... You guys can guess what we do all day. It gets pretty crazy. That's all we do. 'We like to watch movies, we like to Netflix and chill - but we definitely do more of the chilling.' The singer also revealed he's loving married life, although he was keen to point out their relationship still has its challenges. He added: 'Being married is so awesome. I'm telling you, but don't get it twisted, marriage is not easy. 'It's something you got to work for. If marriage was easy, everyone would do it really fast. Everyone would just do it. 'So you guys want to have children, and want to get married, just know that it takes work every day. 'You've got to choose to be patient with that person, love that person, be kind to that person and that takes work. It's powerful. It's really, really incredible.'  Justin also recently revealed what convinced him to kick drugs on his ongoing docuseries Justin Bieber: Seasons, admitting he turned to God and his faith for guidance. He said: 'I decided to stop [drugs] because I felt like I was dying. My security were coming into the room at night to check my pulse. 'People don't know how serious it got; it was legit crazy scary. I basically said to myself, ''God if you're real, you get me through this season of stopping these pills and stuff and if you do, I'll do the rest of the work.'' 'I did that and then I was good from there, but I never did the actual work. I got off the pills, but I never went to the root of everything. So then I just kind of circle back around, which most people do.' Justin went onto say that he eventually started getting help for his deep-rooted issues beyond drugs, and began taking antidepressants. 
