{ By Sahar Mourad For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  00:59, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8001807/Inside-Australias-meth-crisis-Albury-Victoria-Wodonga-NSW-drugs-accessible.html }
Former drug addicts have described how Australia's crippling ice epidemic has destroyed their lives and once peaceful towns.  From mums to mechanics, devastated residents of the New South Wales-Victoria border region of Albury-Wodonga said the area has been ravaged by the drug.  Crystal methamphetamine is available on every corner, children as young as 11 are addicted, and embattled locals barricade their homes in fear, ex-users said.  Alyssa, a young mother, said she was at one point spending a staggering $2,000 on meth every week and selling the drug to her loved ones. 'Most of your morals, most of your values are gone [when you are addicted to ice],' she told A Current Affair.  She would constantly drive under the influence and was one day arrested and put into jail where she was bashed.  She said drugs were on the corner of every street in Albury and is thankful for being clean.  Nathan was a successful mechanic before getting hooked on methamphetamine and ending up in jail.  The young father said at first the drug allowed him to avoid sleep and work constantly, but he soon turned to crime and his life spiralled out of control.  'I'm thankful everyday I didn't kill somebody,' he said.   'The addictive part was the lifestyle that came with it so being able to do a lot reckless things and not care about the consequences.' Michael, a 50-year-old grandfather, blamed the system for his meth addiction, and said ice is easily accessible in the streets of Albury. He said he would shoot up everyday until he finally decided to turn his life around and contacted a rehab centre only to be knocked back. 'I rang one of the detox [centres] down there [in town] and I said, ''I've had enough, I need to lock myself away and get off the gear'',' he said. But Michael was told there was a waiting period of six months, and the centre claimed they 'might be able to help'.  He joked that the amount of money he's spent on the crippling habit would put Donald Trump to shame.    The death rate involving meth was four times higher in 2017 compared to 1999, according to the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare. However, consumption of methamphetamine decreased significantly from 2.1 per cent in 2013 to 1.4 per cent in 2016. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people are 2.2 times more likely to consume the drug compared to non-Indigenous people.   
