{ By Darren Boyle for MailOnline   Published:  23:02, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8001957/Manchester-bomb-accused-asked-friend-buy-sulphuric-acid.html }
A former friend of the man accused of plotting the Manchester Arena bombing said the suspect gave him a 'bulls***' explanation when asking him to buy sulphuric acid said to have been used in the homemade explosives, jurors heard. The witness, who cannot be named for legal reasons, said his father discouraged him from aiding Hashem Abedi's request to source materials online because he had concerns about it being used to make bombs. Abedi's brother, Salman, detonated his suicide bomb on May 22, 2017, killing 22 and injuring hundreds of others as thousands of men, women and children left the Ariana Grande pop concert. Hashem was arrested in Libya, the day after the atrocity before being sent back to the UK to face police questions amid prosecution claims he was complicit in sourcing and stockpiling components for the bomb. He denies 22 counts of murder, one count of attempted murder encompassing the injured survivors, and conspiring with his brother to cause explosions. Giving evidence in person at the Old Bailey on Thursday, the witness said he 'believed' Hashem when he allegedly asked him to buy sulphuric acid from Amazon, using his own account. He said: 'I remember the exact place, he told me some bulls*** story about a generator. 'He said that his brother tipped a battery and the generator stopped working. He asked me very kindly. 'He just asked me for a favour. 'I did not want to let him down so I said yes.' But the witness, who is from the Midlands, said he did not have any money so asked his father to help. Prosecutor Duncan Penny QC asked him: 'Did your father tell you that he was concerned about acid because it can be used to manufacture explosives?' The witness replied: 'Yes, he did.' He added: 'I asked him to buy it. Straight away (he) refused it. Stephen Kamlish QC, defending Abedi, referred to his witness statement, saying: ‘He was off his head all the time’. They had also gone to hotels together for parties in London and Manchester. The pair first met in May 2015 at party and instantly took to one another. ‘The partying involved a lot of drug taking,’ said Mr Kamlish ‘The drugs better and more frequently available there. You were all taking a lot of drugs of different kinds,’ suggest Mr Kamlish. The friend agreed and said Abedi had been taking drugs in March 2017 shortly before the atrocity. During one visit to a mosque with the Abedi brothers, the Imam began to stutter. Salman who was sitting in the front row began to take over the prayers. ‘I thought this was a bit cheeky,’ the witness said. ‘Hashem and I left the mosque without speaking to Salman.’ The witness then admitted his earlier claim that he had not been with Salman in a mosque was inaccurate. The trial continues.  
