drugs
{ By Geoff Earle, Deputy U.s. Political Editor For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:51, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8001127/Adam-Schiff-accuses-Donald-Trump-direct-attack-rule-law.html }
California Rep. Adam Schiff accused President Trump of launching a 'direct attack' on the rule of law through his efforts to blast prosecutors who recommended a lengthy jail term for longtime associate Roger Stone. Schiff, who was the lead House impeachment manager in Trump's Senate trial, accused the president of using the power of his office to help people who 'cover up' for him.  'I'm struck by the fact that it's all out in the open. I mean, we will certainly learn about what's taking place behind the scenes, the sort of clandestine effort to weigh in and help the President's friends and hurt the President's enemies,' the Democrat told former Barack Obama advisor David Axelrod for his podcast, 'The Axe Files.' 'But the fact that this is being done in the open in a way makes it more insidious, because it is normalizing this attack on the independence of our justice system,' Schiff said. Schiff, who has became a regular target of the president's and during a series of speeches in the Senate said Trump tried to 'cheat' in his election, spoke as House Democrats grappled how to respond, after watching Trump's approval ratings tick up during their unsuccessful impeachment effort.   'We now have a President, and an attorney general who's willing to go along with him, that is in the business of investigating political opponents,' Schiff said. 'That is in the business of providing lenient sentences for those that will commit crimes to cover up for the President and try to get harsher sentences on people like Michael Cohen or others that will speak out against the President.'  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, spent months resisting the original impeachment effort weighed in on the Justice Department changing course after seeking a sentence for Stone of up to nine years in prison.  'It is outrageous that DOJ has deeply damaged the rule of law by withdrawing its recommendation,' she said. Another Californian, Rep. Eric Swalwell, didn't rule out a second impeachment when asked about it on CNN. 'We're not going to take our options off table,' Swalwell said. 'We don't wake up in the morning wanting to impeach him. We want to work with him on prescription drugs, background checks and infrastructure. But we're not going to let him just torch this democracy because he thinks that he's been let off once and we're not going to do something about it.' Democrats have also spoken of impeaching Barr, who agreed to testify to the House Judiciary Committee next month for the first time in a year. He never appeared to discuss the Mueller report.     Presidential candidate Sen. Elizabeth Warren tweeted about Barr: 'Congress must act immediately to rein in our lawless Attorney General.' She added: 'Barr should resign or face impeachment.' Trump this week has gone after the prosecutors who recommended the sentence and the judge hearing the case, as well as the jury fore person, who has Democratic roots and ran unsuccessfully for Congress as a Democrat in 2012.         
