drugs
{ By Matt Porter For Mailonline   Published:  22:04, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/sportsnews/article-8039205/Former-athlete-pain-working-coach-alberto-salazar.html }
Former athlete Ari Lambie, who worked under disgraced coach Alberto Salazar, has spoken out about the mental and physical pain she went through during her time with him. Speaking on Monday's BBC Panaroma programme related to the doping allegations made against Salazar and the fresh scrutiny Mo Farah has come under, Lambie also spoke about how she was given medication she didn't need.  'We were asked to take on risks that would affect our long term health,' said Lambie.  She says that Salazar, who was banned from athletics late last year for anti-doping violations, ignored her warnings that she was fatigued and over-training, and said 'you need to commit or I'm not gonna coach you.' Lambie was prescribed thyroid drugs even though she had no medical need for them, and her dosage was raised to a point that would only be necessary for someone whose thyroid gland was not working properly. 'Within a few weeks I could feel my heart beating louder and faster, I was uneasy, as tired or more tired than before,' Lambie continued. 'Mentally I was distraught, it just felt horrible. Alberto never admitted he did anything to harm me, anything wrong.' Lambie also claims she was given an unknown substance which she presumes was used to see if it would pass a drugs test. 'I was given a supplement to take and then give Alberto urine that he could test to find out presumably if it would test positive, but I don't know what the substance was.  'It confirms in my mind Alberto was not acting in the spirit of the rules. He was always trying to get as close to breaking them as he could for his advantage to his athletes without getting caught.' In a statement, Salazar said that 'at no time did I give any supplement to any Oregon Project athlete for the purpose of determining whether that supplement would result in a positive test for a banned substance.'   The Panorama programme also revealed how Mo Farah backtracked over taking the controversial L-carnitine injections before the 2014 London Marathon after claiming he had never used the supplement.  
