drugs
{ By Associated Press   Published:  17:37, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8001129/Attorney-general-says-Oklahoma-resume-executions.html }
Oklahoma plans to resume executing death-row inmates, five years after lethal injections were put on hold following a series of death-chamber mishaps, state officials announced Thursday. Governor Kevin Stitt, Attorney General Mike Hunter and Oklahoma Department of Corrections Director Scott Crow said in a joint news release that the state will resume executions using a three-drug lethal injection protocol and that a source for the drugs has been secured. The three drugs are: midazolam, vecuronium bromide and potassium chloride. 'I believe capital punishment is appropriate for the most heinous of crimes and it is our duty as state officials to obey the laws of the state of Oklahoma by carrying out this somber task,' Stitt said. Hunter said his office has notified the state criminal appeals court that they're ready to resume executions, which triggers a five-month wait before an execution can be scheduled. Dale Baich, a federal public defender representing death row prisoners who are challenging the state's execution procedures in federal court, said in a statement that he's disappointed the state is reverting to the same three-drug protocol that has been used in past problematic executions. 'Oklahoma's history of mistakes and malfeasance reveals a culture of carelessness around executions that should give everyone pause,' he said. 'In the next few days, we will advise the federal court and continue with the ongoing litigation challenging the constitutionality of Oklahoma's protocol.' Oklahoma once had one of the busiest death chambers in the nation, but executions were put on hold following a botched lethal injection in 2014 that left an inmate writhing on the gurney and drug mix-ups in 2015 in which the wrong lethal drugs were delivered. One inmate was executed with an unapproved drug and a second inmate was just moments away from being led to the death chamber before prison officials realized the same wrong drug had been delivered for his execution. The execution protocol announced Thursday utilizes the same drugs that Oklahoma used previously including midazolam, which the U.S. Supreme Court found constitutional in 2015. Hunter said he anticipated court challenges but that any past problems during executions have been associated with human error, rather than the drugs themselves. Meanwhile, more than two dozen inmates have exhausted all their appeals and are awaiting execution dates to be set. There are 47 inmates on Oklahoma's death row, Hunter said. Even after the bungled executions, Oklahoma voters overwhelmingly approved a state question in 2016 enshrining the death penalty in the state constitution, and Stitt said he supports it. The archbishop of Oklahoma City, Rev. Paul Coakley, quickly issued a statement urging the governor and lawmakers to consider non-lethal ways to ensure justice. 'We need to stop sending taxpayer money to kill human beings,' Coakley said. 'We deserve justice for these heinous crimes, but we don't end the cycle of violence by committing more violence.' In 2015, Oklahoma became the first state in the nation to approve the use of nitrogen gas for use in executions, but never finalized plans to use it. Hunter said Thursday that prison officials have made 'good progress' on developing a device to deliver nitrogen gas and will continue their efforts in case drugs become unavailable again the future. Department of Corrections emails obtained by The Associated Press show the agency's former deputy chief of operations reached out to a manufacturer of reduced oxygen breathing units used to help train pilots on the signs and symptoms of hypoxia. The president of the company responded that she didn't believe executions would be an appropriate use of their product and that she had concerns about potential liability. Oklahoma had conducted 112 executions from 1976 to October 2015, when the state imposed a moratorium following three consecutive flawed executions or attempted executions. Here is a look at those and other issues surrounding capital punishment in Oklahoma as the state prepares to resume lethal injections. April 29, 2014: Clayton Lockett writhed and groaned on the gurney as Oklahoma used the surgical sedative midazolam for the first time during an execution. Then-state prisons director Robert Patton halted the execution process, but Lockett died 43 minutes later. The state later says an improperly placed intravenous line - not the new drug mix - caused problems with Lockett's execution. A second execution set that night, for Charles Warner, was postponed. June 25, 2014: Inmates sue Oklahoma, alleging the state unconstitutionally allows an "ever-changing array of untried drugs" during executions. December 22, 2014: A federal judge declares Oklahoma's lethal injection protocol constitutional. The U.S. Supreme Court says later it will consider whether Oklahoma can use midazolam during executions, but it doesn't disrupt Warner's rescheduled execution. January 15, 2015: Oklahoma executes Warner for the 1997 killing of his roommate's infant daughter. "My body is on fire," he said after receiving midazolam, though he showed no other signs of distress. April 18, 2015: Gov. Mary Fallin signs a bill into law making Oklahoma the first state in the nation to approve the use of nitrogen gas for executions. June 29, 2015: A sharply divided U.S. Supreme Court upholds Oklahoma's use of midazolam during executions. September 30, 2015: Prison officials prepare to execute Richard Glossip, but Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin issues a 37-day stay, saying the state Department of Corrections received the wrong drug, potassium acetate, rather than the potassium chloride listed in the state's execution protocol.  October 2, 2015: All executions are put on indefinite hold in the state by the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals at the request of Attorney General Scott Pruitt, who calls for an inquiry into the state's execution procedures. October 8, 2015: The Oklahoman newspaper reports that the state used potassium acetate during Warner's execution in January, rather than potassium chloride. Fallin says she agrees all executions should be delayed after an autopsy report revealed the wrong drug was used to stop the inmate's heart. May 19, 2016: An Oklahoma grand jury investigating the state's execution procedures issues its 106-page report with no indictments.  April 25, 2017: A bipartisan commission co-chaired by former Gov. Brad Henry recommends extending a moratorium on executions until major changes are made to the state´s capital punishment system. March 18, 2018: Oklahoma officials announced plans to develop protocols to use nitrogen gas to execute inmates. February 13, 2020: Oklahoma officials announce plans to resume executions by using a three-drug lethal injection protocol. 
