drugs
{ By Eliza Mcphee For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  04:04, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7998137/Ten-boys-taken-hospital-smoking-synthetic-weed-Carnarvon-Western-Australia.html }
A small Outback town was thrown into chaos after ten young boys started foaming at the mouth after smoking synthetic cannabis.  The boys, ranging in age from 11 to 19, were found vomiting, unconscious or foaming at the mouth outside homes in Carnarvon, around 900km north of Perth on Sunday. Some of the youths were found lying on the floor while one had to be restrained by up to five people after the drugs took hold of him.  One mother who lives on the street watched the mayhem unfold.  'The boys were coming out of the house screaming and throwing themselves on the ground and had that zombie look on them and spewing,' Cyril Baumgarten told the ABC.   'The youngest boy of it all, 11 years old, he collapsed in the house next door to us and there was one young boy that was inside the house and he was unconscious as well.'  Another neighbour, Buffy Kempton, said she was screaming for the community to help. 'It was very, very frightening knowing me and my husband have kids around the same age … it was very emotional at the time,' Ms Kempton said. She said parents needed to be more aware of where their children were otherwise 'kids were going to get hurt'. Police and ambulance crews arrived at a home in the Carnarvon suburb of Brockman after a call from a distressed neighbour.  The boys were believed to have smoked the drugs together before some parted ways. Synthetic cannabis was designed to bring on similar affects as normal cannabis It's commonly smoked or can be drank in tea It can cause a higher heart rate, anxiety, vomiting, psychosis, kidney pain, seizures, stokes and even death People who use synthetic cannabis regularly can have withdrawal symptoms such as insomnia, panic attacks and anxiety Synthetic cannabis often comes in the form of powdered chemicals mixed with herbs and sold in packets  Different packets can give different affects  Source: Alcohol and Drug Foundation  All ten boys were taken to hospital but have since been released.  In the wake of the ordeal, police have raided several properties in the area.   'Carnarvon police are now conducting inquiries into the matter, assisted by the Department of Health,' a spokesperson for Western Australia Police said. 'Police are of the belief that the substances used are illegal and are believed to contain unknown psychoactive substances which can cause serious health issues. 'At this point in time, the recent cluster of overdoses appears to be an isolated incident with all victims know to each other. However, people who are in possession of or encounter these products are urged to avoid consumption of these substances.  'Seek help immediately if you or someone you know has consumed these substances and experiences adverse effects.' 
