drugs
{ By Kylie Stevens For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:14, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7998209/Pauline-Hanson-calls-Australias-borders-closed-stop-spread-coronavirus.html }
One Nation leader Pauline Hanson has doubled down on her coronavirus warning and called for Australia's borders to be closed. The federal Senator sparked controversy for the second time within 24 hours with her latest rant, which she posted on Facebook on Thursday.  'I will always put the safety of Australians ahead of tourists and strongly support an extension to the travel ban I first called for,' she wrote. 'We cannot be too cautious when dealing with such a contagious disease that’s killed far too many people across the globe already.' 'If we reopen our borders to China ahead a vaccine being discovered, we will only cripple our own domestic tourism based on a sense of fear.'  Scroll down for video  Australia is expected to extend its China travel ban as the coronavirus outbreak continues to spread. Saturday will mark two weeks since Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced a temporary 14 day ban on foreign travellers who have left or passed through mainland China from arriving on our shores.  Health Minister Greg Hunt warned earlier this week the travel ban will likely be extended as the worldwide death toll surges towards 1400. 'We expect it will continue. We're not putting a timeframe on it,' the minister said. 'Ultimately, our job … our responsibil­ity, is to provide protection and national health security for the Australian people.' The federal government has admitted the ban has already taken a toll on the tourism industry, which is losing an estimated $1billion a week. Senator Hanson's Facebook post was inundated with supportive comments within minutes.  'Yep, close it down. Safety before money. Unfortunately too many countries, like Australia, have relied too heavily on the Chinese economy, instead of protecting their own economies,' one person commented. Another added: 'Yes we need to for at least a couple of weeks, then reassess the situation.' But not everyone agreed. 'Closing borders temporarily could help but it isn't a permanent solution,' one commented. Senator Hanson's latest rant comes after her controversial comments about Aboriginal people, where she said children who get raped should be taken away from their communities. She slammed the federal government's Closing the Gap initiative to improve Aboriginal communities in a fiery speech in the senate on Wednesday. Labor and Greens senators called her racist after she suggested Aboriginal people were addicted to 'grog and drugs' and failed to turn up to work or take their children to school. But in an interview with Sky News host Paul Murray later that night, Senator Hanson stood by her views and said government efforts were not working.  What is this virus? The virus has been identified as a new type of coronavirus. Coronaviruses are a large family of pathogens, most of which cause mild lung infections such as the common cold. But coronaviruses can also be deadly. SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, is caused by a coronavirus and killed hundreds of people in China and Hong Kong in the early 2000s. Can the Wuhan coronavirus kill? Yes – 1,116 people have so far died after testing positive for the virus.  What are the symptoms? Some people who catch the Wuhan coronavirus may not have any symptoms at all, or only very mild ones like a sore throat or a headache. Others may suffer from a fever, cough or trouble breathing.  And a small proportion of patients will go on to develop severe infection which can damage the lungs or cause pneumonia, a life-threatening condition which causes swelling and fluid build-up in the lungs. How is it detected? The virus's genetic sequencing was released by scientists in China and countries around the world have used this to create lab tests, which must be carried out to confirm an infection. Delays to these tests, to test results and to people getting to hospitals in China, mean the number of confirmed cases is expected to be just a fraction of the true scale of the outbreak.   How did it start and spread? The first cases identified were among people connected to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan. Cases have since been identified around China and are known to have spread from person to person. What are countries doing to prevent the spread? Countries all over the world have banned foreign travellers from crossing their borders if they have been to China within the past two weeks. Many airlines have cancelled or drastically reduced flights to and from mainland China. Is it similar to anything we've ever seen before? Experts have compared it to the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). The epidemic started in southern China and killed more than 700 people in mainland China, Hong Kong and elsewhere.   
