drugs
{ By Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com   Published:  00:55, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7997907/Blac-Chyna-claims-never-injured-ex-Rob-Kardashian-wants-lawsuit-against-tossed.html }
As the latest chapter in a lengthy legal battle against her ex Rob Kardashian, Blac Chyna is claiming she never physically harmed him. The 31-year-old rapper (real name Angela Renee White) filed legal documents claiming that he exaggerated injuries from their 2016 altercation, according to TMZ. Kardashian filed the lawsuit in September 2017, alleging that she tried to strangle him with an iPhone charger cord and hit him repeatedly, which she was reportedly under the influence of alcohol and drugs.  Blac Chyna claims the only pain he suffered was the heartbreak of her leaving him in late December 2016. The couple had dated for less than a year, but Blac Chyna gave birth to their daughter Dream in November 2016, a month before the alleged fight that lead to their split. The fight in question reportedly happened on December 14, 2016, with the lawsuit filed in September 2017 (via The Blast) claiming she was 'carelessly playing with Rob's gun unaware if the gun was loaded or if the safety was on.' The lawsuit also alleges, 'Chyna lunged towards Rob with an iPhone charging cable and attempted to strangle Rob with the cord around his neck.' While Kardashian managed to get away from her, she allegedly chased him down and, 'repeatedly struck him in the head and face. At the time, Chyna and Kardashian were living in a home Kardashian was renting from Kylie Jenner, but Chyna moved out with their daughter Dream. The lawsuit also alleges that she pointed Rob's gun at him while on Facetime with two of his friends, after she, 'consumed a significant amount of drugs and alcohol.'  Chyna fired back by stating in the legal docs that everyone knew it was a joke, and she had no actual intention of pulling the trigger. She is asking the judge to dismiss the lawsuit on the grounds that there was no actual assault and he suffered no injuries, though it remains to be seen if the judge will agree with her assertion or not.  Just a few days after the alleged fight, Blac Chyna and Rob Kardashian got back together, but they split for good in February 2017. In July 2017, Kardashian posted sexually explicit photos of Blac Chyna on social media, which lead to the star getting a restraining order against him. The two have been legally sparring ever since, and she's seeking a seven-figure sum in damages for the social media photos he posted.   
