{ By Joshua Fox For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  22:57, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7997483/Married-Sight-Hayley-Vernon-confirms-DOES-sex-David-Cannon-show.html }
Married At First Sight's controversial bride Hayley Vernon has confirmed she does have sex with 'husband' David Cannon on the show.  Speaking to The Kyle & Jackie O Show on Thursday, the 32-year-old insisted 'it did happen' despite David rejecting her sexual advances during the first dinner party. She made the admission after Kyle Sandilands bluntly asked: 'Have you banged yet?' The busty reality star responded: 'It does happen. Our relationship gets to a good point in the next week or so [of episodes].' However, she admitted that it isn't all smooth sailing for the warring couple. Hayley continued: 'I have a ripper of a week and then s**t just goes down like the Titanic. It goes south like no tomorrow.' Hayley and David are proving to be this season's most controversial couple.  On Wednesday, Hayley strenuously denied claims by her 'husband' David that she is still actively using drugs.   The star, who was previously addicted to crystal meth and smoked cannabis, confirmed she was drug tested twice during filming last year and once beforehand. 'The executive producer [Tara McWilliams] gave me drug tests and a full blood test, all of which came back negative,' she told Daily Mail Australia on Wednesday. Hayley - who previously worked as a topless waitress for three years - decided to speak publicly after David falsely claimed she was still 'using drugs' in a foul-mouthed video published by New Idea, earlier this week.  The footage was supposedly recorded in early September, when he and Hayley were on their honeymoon in Singapore.  At the time, they were arguing and staying in separate hotel rooms because Hayley had joked about David's $25 hourly wage as a truck driver. 'Her idea of being a reformed drug addict is her saying, "I don't do any hard drugs anymore,"' David said in the 11-minute video. 'They've matched me with a smoking, drug addict, tall woman that is inconsiderate and rude. I am looking forward to taking the experts to task when I see them because they don't know f**king s**t.' Married At First Sight returns Sunday at 7pm on Channel Nine  
