drugs
{ By Snejana Farberov For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:29, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7997165/Man-27-drove-van-Republican-voter-registration-tent-said-didnt-like-Trump.html }
 A man charged with driving his van into a tent in Florida where local Republicans were registering voters told deputies he did not like President Donald Trump and that 'someone had to take a stand,' an arrest report revealed. Gregory Timm, 27, told deputies that he had gone to the Walmart in Jacksonville on Saturday to get some food when he noticed the tent set up by Duval County Republicans in the shopping mall's parking lot.  He purchased food and cigarettes inside the store, got back in his older model van and accelerated toward the voter registration tent. No one was injured after the vehicle rammed the tent, knocking over tables and chairs.  The driver got out of the van, took video of the scene, made an obscene gesture at some onlookers and drove off.   Timm later showed deputies cell phone video he took before driving into the tent, but he was upset that the video ended before what he described as 'the good part,' the arrest report said. Timm has been charged with two counts of aggravated assault on a person 65 years old or older, one count of criminal mischief and driving with a suspended license. The arrest report said no drugs or alcohol were involved. State and local Republicans have called what happened a 'partisan political attack' since it was obvious that the event was meant to support the president. A heavily redacted arrest report was released on Sunday. But a less redacted version was filed in online court papers Tuesday, providing the new details. According to social media posts from a few years ago, Timm is originally from Arizona but relocated to Jacksonville about two years ago. His landlord said Timm seemed to be doing well career-wise, talked about wanting to buy an expensive car and never discussed politics.  'I'm blown away. I am, seriously, can't believe this happened,' the landlord told First Coast News. 'I didn't know I had a crazy person living in my house.'  Records indicate that Timm is not registered to vote in Florida.  The station first reported that the 27-year-old suspect was training to become a sound engineers and had only recently joined the International Alliance of Theatrical  Stage Emplyoees. President of the Jacksonville branch of the stagehand union told First Coast News Timm had used his middle name, William, when he applied to join the organization.  In the wake of his arrest, Timm has been suspended from the union.    Timm made his initial court appearance on Sunday and was ordered held in jail on bail totaling more than $507,000. He is due back in court on March 3.      Soon after the incident, President Trump sent a tweet warning the perpetrator to 'be careful who you play with'.  Jacksonville Sheriff's Office is reportedly looking at the incident as an 'interruption of the political process.'  'We are investigating this as an aggravated assault. Several people were in the area and could have been seriously hurt... we are taking the situation very seriously,' the Sheriff's Office told Daily Wire before Timm's arrest.  Duval County GOP Chairman Dean Black released a statement which read: 'We are outraged by this senseless act of violence toward our great volunteers. The Republican Party of Duval County will not be intimidated by these cowards and we will not be silenced.' Sen. Rick Scott, a Republican, said in a tweet that the Duval County GOP 'will not be silenced or intimidated. They will redouble their efforts to support strong Republicans in NE Florida and around the state!' Mayor of Jacksonville Lenny Curry tweeted: 'This is outrageous. The hate is toxic and dangerous. Thankfully no one was injured but certainly they are shaken after being targeted because they were registering voters. I’ve spoken to the Sheriff and of course his team is on top of this.' 'I call on every Republican in our great city to stand up, get involved, and show these radicals that we will not be intimidated from exercising our Constitutional rights.' The sentiment was shared by GOP Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel, who tweeted: 'These unprovoked, senseless attacks on @realDonaldTrump's supporters need to end. I want to echo the @DuvalGOP in saying: We will not be silenced by cowards, and these disgusting acts will only make us work harder to win November.' The Duval County Democratic Party released a statement saying: 'we are thankful the perpetrator of this cowardly attack has been apprehended by JSO and continue to call for civility during this election cycle.' 
