{ By Ryan Parry, West Coast Editor For Dailymail.com and James Desborough For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:32, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7995881/Reality-star-Courtney-Stodden-plotting-revenge-ex-Doug-Hutchison-tell-book.html }
Reality star Courtney Stodden is plotting to take her revenge on ex husband Doug Hutchison with her own tell all book revealing the truth behind their 'toxic' relationship, DailyMailTV can reveal. In an exclusive interview Stodden, 25, says she plans to lift the lid on the living hell she endured with Green Mile star Hutchison, 59, and how her troubles led to her attempting suicide two years ago. She will also reveal how she turned to drugs to cope with her ex and how she has suffered PTSD since their split. This comes as Stodden's estranged husband is doing a round of promotional interviews pushing his own memoir in which he tears into his wife claiming she faked a pregnancy and miscarriage for money. Stodden, who made headlines when at age 16 she married 51-year-old Hutchison in 2011, says that writing passages of her book left her feeling 'sick' and spiritually broken. 'I am working on a book called Blond and Blue, and I will tell my true story from when I was a kid and what lead me into such a crazy life,' she explained. 'It is insane, there are so many behind the scenes things I am going to be revealing. 'I have just been recently honest with myself about these things that have happened behind closed doors, so the public will be shocked about things that I am coming out with.' Stodden is brimming with excitement over finally divorcing her Hollywood actor Hutchison. 'I am officially divorced March 3 this year, so I'm like yes,' she told DailyMailTV, punching the air with a beaming smile. The actress says that if anyone fails to have sympathy for her words, then 'f**k them', but says writing her memoir has been like 'therapy'. 'I have a ghost writer and we are going to get it published, it's a real thing. I am going through PTSD, literally inside my body. It is crazy,' she said. 'I can get sick the next day after talking about something that I have never spoken out loud to myself. 'I am really struggling with this book, but I am going to do it and it will be good for me. It's been very difficult to just get independent.' Without Hutchinson, Stodden claims, she is in a positive, 'introspective, spiritual space' ready to share her ordeals as a child star who endured a 'tumultuous divorce'. 'When you are thrust into the limelight at such a young age you do not have your mind yet and are not fully developed,' she explained. 'So when you are around yes people or older people you rely on, it becomes toxic. And you start using drugs and you start blah blah blah.' Stodden, who traded her infamy as a teen bride to land reality work and a media career, promises to also open up about the negative side of fame. 'I recently got into a really dark point. Two years ago I tried to commit suicide and it got super super bad for me. 'Right now I am in a self-reflective place and honest place.' In what appears to be a swipe at her ex, Stodden admits that her confidence and mindset was determined by how others have validated her in person or on social media. 'I have given into this image so much so that people are like, 'there is Anna Nicole'... but why can I not be myself and look like this. That is the journey I am on right now,' she said. 'I have relied so much on worrying what everybody else around me, what they are thinking about me. 'And I need to stop doing that. And if nobody really likes what I am doing because I am not playing into the 'stupid girl', then f**k them. 'This is is a time in my life where I am getting a divorce and I need to figure my stuff out.' Stodden has no plans on turning her back on showbiz, however, instead she plans to release a song. 'I am working on a song called Drowning, which is a reflection of my entire life up until this point,' she explains. 'And how I still feel when I go to bed, I feel like I am drowning. The music is going to be the bomb. 'It is a ballad and something people will not expect. I am really excited to immerse myself in my trueness, in my art, what I really want to do. My music is my freakin' passion.' Stodden spoke to DailyMailTV at the 5th Annual Roger Neal & Maryanne Lai Oscar Viewing Dinner and After Party at the Hollywood Museum. Her interview comes in the wake of her ex's round of promotion for his own memoir, Flushing Hollywood: Fake News, Fake Boobs. His book is set to expose bombshell details about the couple's tumultuous relationship including an alleged scheme they came up with together when they found themselves desperate for cash. He claims Stodden faked a pregnancy and miscarriage for money and he went along with it after his career nosedived and he was blacklisted by Hollywood. 'I'm not proud to admit this, but again, this book is about the truth... I don't justify it in my book. I'm actually ashamed that we did it,' he told Fox News. 'I think that in some ways it was immoral. It was very unfair to those people out there who sincerely suffered from miscarriages. But at that point in time, we were completely broke.' Hutchison says that after burning through his savings and unable to get a job, Courtney 'came up with a strategy'. 'It was all about survival. It was all about a way to make rent, to pay the bills. It was desperation.  'I was an accomplice. I felt at the time there was no other choice in order to survive... We didn't think about the consequences, the future.' He added: 'I'm not trying to blame her, but it was her idea... She wanted to convince the public that she was pregnant so we can get paid for interviews and possibly a reality show.' She added: 'I am actually grateful where I am at right now in my life, even though I have been going through this tumultuous divorce.' In 2011 the couple made global headlines when they married, before their 34-year age difference led them to many issues - and reality shows. They appeared in Couples Therapy which lead to a brief period of bliss. In August 2013, Stodden spent three weeks on the British version of Celebrity Big Brother, before she then worked with porn company Vivid Entertainment to release a solo sex tape. Stodden separated from her husband many times. In May 2016, the pair celebrated their fifth anniversary by renewing their wedding vows, before separating nine months later. In March 2018, she filed for divorce and did not request spousal support.   
