drugs
{ By Ellie Phillips For Mailonline   Published:  18:00, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7996461/Justin-Bieber-reveals-wife-Hailey-sex-day-admits-marriage-takes-work.html }
They tied the knot in a secret ceremony in September 2018, before the married couple exchanged vows in front of 154 guests a year later. And on Tuesday night, Justin Bieber, 23, revealed that he and wife Hailey, 23, 'have sex all day' as he told the crowd that 'marriage takes work,' while on stage at his new album preview at Indigo at The 02 in London.  During the intimate performance and Q&A, the Baby crooner also joked that his wife was 'ignoring him' as she failed to answer his FaceTime call. The Love Yourself hitmaker has opened up about their love life, hinting things can get 'pretty crazy' when they get to spend some time together.  He said: 'So when I'm with my wife, we like to ... You guys can guess what we do all day. It gets pretty crazy. That's all we do. 'We like to watch movies, we like to Netflix and chill - but we definitely do more of the chilling.' The singer also revealed he's loving married life, although he was keen to point out their relationship still has its challenges. He added: 'Being married is so awesome. I'm telling you, but don't get it twisted, marriage is not easy. 'It's something you got to work for. If marriage was easy, everyone would do it really fast. Everyone would just do it. 'So you guys want to have children, and want to get married, just know that it takes work every day. 'You've got to choose to be patient with that person, love that person, be kind to that person and that takes work. It's powerful. It's really, really incredible.' Justin dedicated his tune 'Take It Out On Me' to his wife and after singing the track tried to call her via FaceTime but she didn't pick up. The star joked to his fans that Hailey was 'ignoring him' because she'd have hated the attention on her. Roman Kemp offered six lucky listeners the chance to join him on Capital Breakfast to hear Justin's hotly anticipated new album Changes, three days before the rest of the world. When the fans arrived at Capital's Leicester Square studios on Tuesday, Roman surprised them by whisking them off to a secret venue to attend a world exclusive listening party.  Unbeknownst to them, Justin Bieber himself was also at the party, and Roman brought the star in to meet his fans as a surprise for the Capital listeners.  One fan said to Justin: 'I'm so happy you've come back and I'm so happy that you're happy and you're like in a good space. Coz I feel like that's all we've been waiting for like forever.' Justin replied: 'Thank you I appreciate that. Thank you for saying that, that means a lot.'    The Beckhams were VIP guests at Justin's gig. Harper, eight, couldn't contain her excitement as the Yummy hit-maker invited her on stage for a hug. The youngest of the Beckham rood was beaming as she returned to her backstage vantage point alongside her brother Cruz, 14, following her brief appearance in front of the crowd. Doting dad David appeared to be enjoying it just as much as his kids, nodding along in tune to the music and enthusiastically filming every moment of the acoustic gig. Cruz was dressed just like Bieber himself, rocking merchandise from the American star's Drew clothing range including a hoodie and a beanie hat. Harper was grinning from ear-to-ear as she trotted back to join her dad and her brother following Bieber's special tribute to her. David - who also raises children Brooklyn, 20, and Romeo, 17, with his wife Victoria - captioned his videos 'a hug and HUGE smile'.  This isn't the first time Harper has met Bieber since David took her treat-or-treating in LA at Halloween, stopping off at the singer and Hailey Baldwin's marital home. Justin treated the youngster to a snow cone, with David deeming the A-list pit stop the 'highlight of her night'.  Harper beamed as she held on to the snack, while David wrote over the picture: 'Highlight of her night... someone got her snow cone. Thanks Justin Bieber and Hailey Bieber'.  Justin's special gig was taking place ahead of the release of his highly-anticipated fifth studio album Changes on Friday.  Bieber, 25, took to Twitter to thank his fans for their support, writing: 'London was amazing. So grateful to be back on that stage doing what I love with all of you. Tour goes on sale with the album on Friday. #ChangesTour'. 'So amazing to see people hearing #changes for the first time', he also posted. Justin recently revealed what convinced him to kick drugs on his ongoing docuseries Justin Bieber: Seasons.  He said: 'I decided to stop [drugs] because I felt like I was dying. My security were coming into the room at night to check my pulse. 'People don't know how serious it got; it was legit crazy scary.' Feeling like he was at the end of his rope, Justin asked God for guidance. 'I basically said to myself, 'God if you're real, you get me through this season of stopping these pills and stuff and if you do, I'll do the rest of the work.' 'I did that and then I was good from there, but I never did the actual work. I got off the pills, but I never went to the root of everything. 'So then I just kind of circle back around, which most people do,' he admitted. Justin went on to say he began getting help, including going on antidepressants. 
