{ By Leah Simpson For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:53, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7996031/White-supremacist-gang-Universal-Aryan-Brotherhood-killed-Oklahoma-member-destroyed-AC.html }
A white supremacist gang in Oklahoma murdered one of its own men because he destroyed an air conditioning unit during a fight with his girlfriend, who is also a member of the Universal Aryan Brotherhood. Jared Langworthy, 23, a member of the gang - which was established inside the Oklahoma Department of Corrections in 1993 - was severely beaten, shot and left for dead. He died the following day on December 6 and as of last week police had arrested six out of seven people connected to the slaying. After his silver SUV was caught leaving the scene, another member, Cody Lee Fulmer, 31, admitted that he bashed Langworth. He said that the victim's girlfriend Destiny Rae Asher lived with his relative and Langworthy was known to damage property whenever he couldn't get Asher to come outside. 'This made [Fulmer] mad because his family member Charlie was extremely old and in a wheelchair and did not deserve that to happen,' the affidavit states. Langworthy's girlfriend told the fellow gang members where her boyfriend could be found, documents state. It continues that Tyler '100' Coyle, Billy Shawn Griffith, Aaron Mitchell Welch, and Jerry 'One Eye' Brian Williamson went after Langworthy with a bat and drove him to Coyle's home. There, Coyle's girlfriend Taylor Michelle Harper was heating a metal object in a fire and Williamson picked up the victim by his neck and burned off his 'SS' lightning bolt shoulder tattoo. The patch is a symbol for the gang, which is modeled off the Aryan Brotherhood formed in the 1960s in California prisons. Fulmer told cops they threw him into a pond before they drove him to another house. Once there, Langworthy was left for dead in a ditch. A gang member said Langworthy didn't fear for his life after being warned the group was after him. He is said to have told the person: 'I'm Hollywood, I ain't running from s**t.' One of his last utterances was: 'Why? Am I going to die?' However, Fulmer denies using a weapon when he beat him and says he didn't leave Langworthy for dead, an affidavit filed at the District Court for Tulsa County states. In early January, TCSO arrested Tyler Brett Coyle, Taylor Michelle Harper and Destiny Rae Asher in connection with the murder. They are charged in the first degree and also face a variety of additional charges for gang-related offenses, maiming and conspiracy to commit a felony. Creek County Sheriff's Office and the Creek County DA Task Force Billy Shawn Griffith, 39, was the fifth suspect to be arrested and  Jerry Brian Williamson, 49, who goes by 'one eye' was arrested last week after deputies from TCSO's THA Community Enhancement Unit received information that a wanted subject was possibly in an apartment located at 1504 West 59th Place. Aaron Mitchell Welch, 36, is still at large. Langworth's mother Toni believes her son was killed because he ripped the AC unit.  However, a friend thinks the murder was ordered from inside prison where the Universal Aryan Brotherhood (UAB) allegedly runs a racketeering enterprise. The 'whites only' prison-based gang – which refers to female members as 'featherwoods' – have committed acts of murder, kidnapping, the trafficking of methamphetamine and firearms, money laundering, assault, and robbery throughout the state.  They used contraband cell phones to operate and use 'hate, fear, affliction, and violence' to operate according racketeering charges from last February. Key players allegedly involved in UAB operations, include six inmates inside Oklahoma State Penitentiary at McAlester. Mathew D. Abrego, 33; Christopher K. Baldwin, 39; Jeremy C. Anderson, 31; Johnny R. Jameson, 36; Robert W. Zeidler, 45; and James C. Taylor, 52, were some of the people who used social media and 'kites' to carry out operations that 18 people were charge for last February. UAB members and associates are alleged to have participated in a significant and widespread methamphetamine distribution scheme, and laundered hundreds of thousands of dollars in illegal drug proceeds using cash transfers, stored value cards, PayPal, and Walmart money transfers, IRS Criminal Investigation (IRS-CI) found. An indictment from a year ago alleges that they murdered people on the orders of the Main Council, which is the highest governing body of the UAB. Oklahoma State Reformatory inmate Donald Jones was stabbed to death in 2005 in a retaliation against African American inmates. UAB also ordered the murders of Blake Ford and James Mask. University of Tulsa student, Sufeng He, 24, was shot dead May 31, 2011, during an attempted carjacking as a UAB member fled police officers. Jason Harris was murdered during a kidnapping and robbery in 2017. The Department Justice states the gang used kidnapping as a way to 'enforce discipline, recoup drugs and other debts, and to ensure the individuals were not cooperating with law enforcement'. Anyone with information on the whereabouts of Aaron Mitchell Welch, 36, is asked to call 918-596-5601. 
