drugs
{ By Bridie Pearson-jones For Mailonline   Published:  15:48, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7995551/Janet-Street-Porter-73-shares-struggle-HRT.html }
Janet Street-Porter has revealed her turmoil to gain access to hormone replacement therapy, arguing that 'women should not have to beg for the drug'.  The Brentford-born journalist, 73, opened up about her struggle when speaking on the Loose Women panel earlier today.  She revealed she had been on holiday in Australia when she realised she didn't have the medication, and had seen a doctor who 'lectured' her about taking the drug at her age and 'almost reduced her to tears'.   Fellow panelist Saira Khan, 49, also explained she had been taking the drug to relieve joint pain, and said she feels doctors don't take the problem seriously.  It comes as the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists said it was 'very concerned' that women were buying products from websites and warned that unregulated sites were potentially unsafe. Last week, the Royal College of GPs said 'unscrupulous' online chemists were profiting from patients desperate for HRT because tens of thousands of women are being harmed by 'catastrophic' shortages of HRT and contraception. Introducing the topic on today's show, host Christine Lampard explained that women are going to extreme lengths to get their prescriptions, from buying them online to trading them in social media groups.  Janet said that she first became aware of the issue of accessing the drug when she travelled to Australia only to arrive and realise she didn't have her prescription.   Speaking of her struggles, she said: 'At end of last year, I noticed on my Twitter feed that people were saying they couldn't get their HRT.  Last October, top GP Dr Louise Newson said it was easier for drug addicts to get heroin than it is for women to get HRT.  Previous figures suggested that four in ten women have been able to access HRT medication.   Whilst there has been no official explanation for the shortage, it is said to be down to a 'perfect storm' of manufacturing and supply problems.    'In fact it's been going on for months, the shortage started in 2018.' 'I never thought it would affect me, in my stupid way, I've been on HRT for over 15 years.' She went on: 'Anyway, when I got to Australia, I discovered my pharmacist hadn't included it in my medication for my holiday.  'I had to go and get some from a private doctor who gave me a lecture about why women my age shouldn't be on HRT and it almost reduced me to tears.' Janet explained: 'I got a one month supply and when I got back, I rang up my NHS surgery and I said, "What's happened to my HRT prescription?" and they said they needed me to go and see my doctor and you can only get one or two months at a time.' She went on: 'The NHS is at crisis point, doctors are so busy. How come every woman that needs HRT have to go in, find the time to make an appointment, and beg for it? Why should we have to beg for a medication that is our right? 'If it was a medication that applied to men, these shortages would have been solved ages ago. I don't notice a Viagra crisis, do I?' Meanwhile fellow panelist Saira Khan also said she had been taking HRT, and said she has often been told it's not available.    Using hormone therapy in women ages 65 and older remains controversial. Most women hit menopause between the ages of 45 and 55 with the average age being 51.  Most women are able to stop taking HRT after their menopausal symptoms finish, which is usually two to five years after they start.   The risks of the treatment may go up at higher doses, the longer you use a medication, or as you age.  If HRT is used in women over 60 years of age, low doses should be used.  Potential risks of taking HRT can include:  She said she didn't feel doctors take the shortage seriously because it's not deadly. She explained: 'No I'm not going to die. But I'm going to be hot and sweaty, and I'm going to come out in a rash and I'm going to be very angry. 'I had really stiff joints and it really helped me, it helped with my bone density and my moods.' She continued: 'I don't want to hold myself up as desperate case, but women across the country will be asking why they can't get it, they'll be saying it makes their life better.' Last week, campaigners warned that tens of thousands of women are being harmed by 'catastrophic' shortages of HRT and contraception. Professional bodies, doctors and MPs are demanding immediate action from the Health Secretary to alleviate the crisis, insisting 'women deserve better'. In a joint letter to the Matt Hancock, health leaders warned that women have been left in distress for over a year due to shortages of HRT medication. Meanwhile worsening shortages of contraceptive drugs are causing 'utter chaos', leading to unplanned pregnancies and risking a spike in abortions. The Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, the British Menopause Society and the Faculty of Sexual and Reproductive Healthcare urged the Government to launch a working group to investigate into the crisis. In a letter expressing frustration at the 'lack of transparency' over the reasons for the shortages, they said it is still unclear why they 'seem to be unique to the UK'. Hormone Replacement Therapy relieves symptoms of the menopause by replacing hormones as the body stops producing them. It can be taken as tablets, skin patches, gels and creams. Around one in ten women with menopausal symptoms are prescribed HRT. Latest figures show approximately 200,000 women are on HRT in the UK, and 2.5 million prescriptions are issued every year in England. NICE estimates that 400,000 could benefit from the treatment. Why are there HRT shortages? Doctors have blamed supply problems in China with some of the components for HRT patches, which deliver hormones through the skin.  This has had a knock-on effect on other types of HRT such as pills and gels, as GPs have prescribed these treatments instead.  There has been a huge increase in demand for HRT in the past few years after NHS guidelines in 2014 recommended it be much more widely used. If this became a problem in 2018, why has nothing been done? Ministers will say the shortages are the responsibility of the pharmaceutical firms.  In October, the Department of Health started banning the export of some HRT from the UK to ensure there was more to go round.  But doctors’ leaders believe the Government isn’t doing enough and claim officials haven’t been fully transparent over the cause of the problem.  Last week they wrote to Health Secretary Matt Hancock urging him to set up a working group to assess the crisis. When will this be fixed? Doctors hope the supply problems will be resolved this month, leading to products gradually coming back on to the market. But some items are likely to remain in short supply for much of the year. What should women do? The British Menopause Society, which represents specialist doctors, says there are still some forms of HRT available even if they aren’t patients’ preferred treatment.  But many women who can’t get hold of patches dislike using pills and gels because they aren’t as effective. Why is there concern about women buying HRT online? HRT is a powerful medication that can increase the risk of blood clots, heart disease and breast and ovarian cancer in some women.  Doctors say it should only be prescribed under close supervision of a doctor, with regular face-to-face reviews.  Doctors are also worried that some online pharmacies may dispense fake or out-of-date medication.  
