{ By Karen Ruiz For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  20:00, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8038141/Josh-Reynolds-ex-told-friends-not-crime-fake-pregnancy.html }
Josh Reynolds' ex-girlfriend allegedly told a friend 'it's not a crime to fake a pregnancy' after coming up with a plan to trick the NRL star into thinking she miscarried.  Arabella del Busso, whose real name is Donna Preusker, is accused of conning the West Tigers player out of thousands of dollars and feigning three pregnancies over the course of their one-year relationship.   Her friend Belinda Janes, 35, claimed the 30-year-old admitted she was only with Reynolds for his money and became 'stuck' with him after he bought her a puppy.   Ms Janes told The Daily Telegraph on Monday that Del Busso had uploaded a photo on Instagram with a drip in her arm during her last supposed pregnancy, which was her way of telling Reynolds she had lost their unborn twins.  'When I questioned her, she said, "what's the worst that could happen … it's not a crime to fake a pregnancy",' Ms Janes claimed. She said Reynolds had already been 'crushed' over Del Busso's second miscarriage and had bought her a cavoodle named Meatball to help her cope with the loss.   'She just rolled her eyes and said, "f**k, now I'm stuck with him, I love the dog but she's a huge commitment, I can't pack up and leave",' Janes said. Ms Janes revealed she was also a victim of Del Busso's alleged money-making scheme in which she begged friends for money to help get over the heartbreak of her 'miscarriages' and death of her mother, who's still alive.  A text message allegedly sent by Ms Del Busso's relative emerged earlier this month, in which her 'aunt' urged friends to make a 'small contribution' towards a pamper day of beauty treatments to help Del Busso 'take her mind off things'.  Ms Janes said she later learned the 'relative' was actually Del Busso herself.   Earlier this month, around the time the allegations levelled against Del Busso came to light, Ms Janes uploaded a Facebook post apparently aimed at her, as she hit out at 'selfish and disgusting' people.  'I have been played by guys my whole life, but to be played by a close gf is never what I expected or signed up for, I need to see someone to do some black magic on me, to stop attracting toxic people, it seems to happen too often!!' she wrote.  Del Busso last year accused Reynolds of assaulting her, claiming he left her with bruised arms and legs during an incident which was partly filmed in September. Reynolds denied the allegations.  Leaked footage went viral last month showing the shirtless Wests Tigers playmaker, 30, verbally abusing Del Busso as she sat on his bed.  It did not show Reynolds assaulting her in any way.  Reynolds' lawyers alleged she only filed her domestic violence complaint after she learned of his decision to tell police about her alleged deceit.  They also claimed Del Busso digitally altered photos of herself to appear pregnant, and even went so far as to inject herself with fertility drugs to pull off the ruse.   
