{ By David Wilcock, Whitehall Correspondent For Mailonline   Published:  13:10, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7995635/Jeremy-Corbyn-suggests-Boris-Johnson-DEPORTED-attack-expulsion-foreign-criminals.html }
Jeremy Corbyn suggested Boris Johnson should have been deported over his own past brushes with the law today as he attacked Government plans to kick out foreign criminals.  In a heated Prime Minister's Questions exchange the Labour leader insinuated there was a racial element to the decision to send 50 convicted crooks to Jamaica, despite many of them having lived in the UK for decades. There is fury in the government after the expulsion of more than half of them - including violent offenders - was blocked by the courts after claims that they had been denied access to legal advice.  Mr Corbyn cited the Prime Minister's past confession to having tried cocaine, being implicated in a planned - but never carried out - attack by an old friend on a News of the World journalist who was investigating him and referenced his birthplace of New York. In front of a packed House of Commons this afternoon, Mr Corbyn said: 'If there was a case of a young white boy with blond hair who later dabbled in class A drugs and conspired with a friend to beat up a journalist, would he deport that boy, or is it one rule for young black boys from the Caribbean and another for white boys from the United States?' The accusation sparked a blunt response from the Prime Minister, who replied: 'I think quite frankly that Mr Corbyn demeans himself and by the way besmirches the reputation of the Windrush generation who came to this country to work in our public services, to teach our children in this country, to make lives better for people in this country. 'To be separated from my kids, I would rather die,' were the words of Adam Goulbourne inside a London deportation on Monday night.  The 26-year-old from St Jude's was then taken to a coach with dozens of other detainees bound for Jamaica. But upon arrival an officer got on and said he was one of four passengers going back to the detention centre. He has lived in England since he was six years old. In 2017, he was found guilty of intent to supply Class A drugs and spent two years in prison before being released in April last year. Since then he has been fighting a legal battle to remain in the UK to care for his mother, who suffered a stroke last year, and his three daughters.  The law was changed in 2012 to allow the deportation of criminals to their birth country, despite them being raised in Britain.  At the end of 2019 judges turned down his case and his final hope was pinned on his solicitor being able to win a last-minute reprieve from the courts, which he secured on Tuesday. 'He has no right to conflate them with those foreign national offenders that we are deporting today.' Mr Johnson was born in the United States in 1964 while his father Stanley studied there.  But although he gave up his US citizenship in 2016 he has always been a UK citizen as well, so he would not be liable for deportation under the laws governing the flights. Last year during the Tory leadership campaign Mr Johnson blustered his way past questions regarding a 2008 admission that he had tried cocaine while a teenage student in Oxford. He was also linked to a planned assault by old Eton friend Darius Guppy. At a trial in 1994, a 1990 phone call between the pair came to light in which he agreed to give Guppy, a convicted fraudster, the contact details of a News of the World reporter investigating his business affairs so he could give him 'a couple of black eyes'. The attack never happened and Mr Johnson said in 2013 he was just 'humouring' an old acquaintance. The flight to Jamaica was supposed to be carrying 50 people that ministers categorised as having committed serious crimes. But the plane left for Kingston at about 7.30am yesterday, taking just 17 people on the journey. It went ahead despite legal challenges being underway, but the Prime Minister said that those on board 'should have taken the precaution of not being serious criminals'. The government now fears that those remaining will secure bail within days and be released from immigration removal centres. Under the UK Borders Act 2007, the Home Office must make a deportation order where a foreign national has been convicted of an offence and received a custodial sentence of 12 months or more. This is subject to several exceptions, including where to do so would breach someone's human rights or the UK's obligations under the Refugee Convention. In the Commons today Mr Corbyn said the Government had 'learned nothing' from the Windrush scandal. Speaking at Prime Minister's Questions, Mr Corbyn asked: 'Does the Prime Minister think that someone who came to this country at the age of five and was the victim of county lines grooming and compelled to carry drugs released five years ago and never re-offended deserves to be deported?' Boris Johnson replied: 'I think the whole country would agree that, while I cannot comment on individual cases, it is entirely right that foreign national offenders should be deported from this country in accordance with the law.'  The Government said 17 foreign criminals with a combined sentence of 75 years and one life sentence were deported on today's charter flight. This includes a combined total of 15.5 years for rape, 16 years for violent offences, almost 29 years for drugs-related offences, including Class A drugs and 14 years for robbery with possession of a firearms: Rape One convicted for rape and given an 11 year sentence One convicted of rape and given a sentence of 4 years and 6 months Violent crime One convicted for a violent assault and given a sentence of 1 year and 3 months One convicted of wounding with intend to cause GBH, possession of a weapon in public place Violent offences against a person (Wounding) 7 years One convicted of a violent crime against a person and given a 8 year sentence Drugs One convicted for intent to supply class A drugs – 7 year sentence One persistent offender, whose most recent conviction was for drugs offences and intimidating a witness and given a total sentence of 11 months One convicted for importing controlled drugs and given a sentence of four years One convicted to supplying class A drugs and given a sentence of four years and six months One convicted to supplying class A drugs and given a sentence of three years One convicted of importing controlled class B drugs and given a three year sentence One convicted of supplying class A drugs (crack cocaine) and given a sentence of 3 years and 2 months One convicted of supplying class A drugs and given a sentence of 3 years and 4 months Robbery and firearm offences One convicted of robbery and give a life sentence One convicted of robbery, firearms offence, theft of a vehicle and possessing class A drugs, given a five year sentence One convicted for conspiracy to rob and possession of a firearm and given a sentence of 9 years Burglary One convicted of burglary and given a prison sentence of 2 years and 6 months 
