{ By Terri-ann Williams For Mailonline   Published:  12:13, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7995251/Ricky-Hatton-tells-fans-good-health-pictured-prisoner-coronavirus.html }
Boxing legend Ricky Hatton has reassured fans that they can talk to him after he was pictured with a British man who has been charged with dealing drugs and has been struck down by coronavirus. The 41-year-old took to social media earlier today to tell fans he 'didn't know' Mark Rumble and that he had just been someone he had taken a picture with while on holiday in Thailand 'several years ago'. Rumble, 31, from Oxfordshire, was sent to HMP Bullingdon, close to Bicester, on January 27 and faces charges of conspiracy to supply class A and B drugs. He is due in court later this month and is expected to deny the charges. He had been extradited from Thailand last month with Thai ministers having claimed that he had been fine before he left. Pictures have since circulated of Hatton posing with Rumble. Speaking on Instagram today, Hatton, after seeing the images online and in newspapers said: 'Don’t panic you can talk to me!! just to reassure everyone since I got back from holiday I’ve been straight back in the gym.  'I’ve fulfilled all my appearances & functions & at present I’m on my way to the gym as we speak. Plus the picture printed is 100% from a trip several years ago as you’ll also be happy to know I no longer own that shirt. 'The gentleman in the picture I also don’t know. Obviously someone I’ve just had a picture with years previous . To be fair the papers never printed when it actually was taken but I’m sure people agree with me thanks for the un needed panic.' He then also took to Twitter to reassure his fans on the social media platform that he was 'fulfilling his duties'. Hatton also once again stated that the picture was not from his Thailand trip this year. It is not know when Hatton was last in Thailand, however, pictures on his Instagram show him to be on a beach resort just one week ago. He also posted a video of himself on the back of a moped in the Pattaya area of Thailand two weeks ago.  Mr Rumble reportedly collapsed in his cell at HMP Bullingdon on Monday. A second inmate developed flu-like symptoms and a third is also being tested for the virus. Meanwhile, a prison nurse who first checked on Mr Rumble has put herself into 'self-isolation' at home. Hundreds of inmates were confined to their cells yesterday, with the prison gripped by panic. Results from Mr Rumble and the other potentially infected inmates are expected later today. 
