{ By Eve Buckland For Mailonline   Published:  10:42, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7995065/Katie-Prices-Alsatian-dogs-KILL-neighbours-chickens-coop.html }
Katie Price has been left devastated after her Alsatian dog Sparkle died after being hit by a car. According to The Sun, the former glamour model's beloved dog was killed on the A24 after escaping from Katie's house.  Other sources have alleged to the publication that Katie has been reported to the RSCPA because this is the third animal to die in three years.   One of Katie's horses was tragically killed on the same road in 2017 after escaping from a field.  The star, 41, suffered further tragedy in 2018 when her Alsatian Queenie was struck and killed by a delivery driver. The latest tragedy comes one day after is was reported that Katie's Alsatian dogs killed her neighbour's chickens after escaping from her mansion. According to The Sun, the former glamour model's dogs Sparkle and Blade got out of her home and killed the chickens after breaking into their coop - with the neighbours finding their corpses there.  A source told the website: 'Katie's house doesn't have fencing all the way around it, so it's easy for the dogs to escape and run off to nearby properties.  'Blade and Sparkle ran off and less than an hour later, Katie heard from the neighbours, who had come home to find their chickens had been massacred. 'They're absolutely furious, and really upset – but all Katie could do is offer to replace the chickens. They added that fences were taken down during renovations on Katie's house and 'despite numerous promises', they hadn't been put back up.   MailOnline has contacted Katie's representative for comment.  According to The Sun, Katie has been reported to the RSCPA because this is the third animal to die in three years.  A source said: 'Upset fans can't believe this has happened again and have reported her to the RSPCA. They have demanded they investigate what's gone on.' MailOnline has contacted Katie Price's representatives for comment.   Back in July 2019, Katie invested in guard dog Blade to make her family feel safe again- one year after her last pooch was run over by a pizza delivery driver.  The TV personality shared footage on Instagram in which she was seen training the obedient pooch, who tailed the star around and followed her commands. Gushing over her new pet, the mother-of-five also shared a close up snap of the pup on her story, writing, 'Love my dog Blade @protectionworldwide.'   Katie had faced criticism for splashing out on the dog - the fifth in a number of pooches that have either died or been sold to ease her financial woes.  According to The Sun, the busty bombshell adopted the guard dog in order for her daughter Princess to feel safer in the house as she still suffers after the horrific carjacking that took place in South Africa. The publication reported that she revealed: 'I will feel safer and so will Princess as she still suffers from the hijack at gun point we had in South Africa when filming.'   Following the horrific event, the star told friends that she feared for the life of her two children during the robbery. The three of them were thrown out the vehicle by the attackers during their journey from Johannesburg to Swaziland in two people carriers as their mobile phones, laptops, passports and money were all stolen. Sources said Junior needed a toilet stop as the convoy drove down the busy N17 in darkness as they approached the town of Chrissiesmeer in Mpumalanga province. As both vehicles pulled onto the hard shoulder a following VW Golf with three men in it said to be high on drugs saw a 'golden opportunity' and pulled in behind Price's convoy.   According to police, the attackers were unarmed but launched a vicious attack on the group, leaving one of the guards unconscious. Their vehicles were ransacked of laptops, IPads, passports, cash and jewellery – but the robbers left behind a fortune in camera gear which the film crew had stored on board. A source told The Sun: 'Katie was terrified and frantically worried for her little ones. This was a horrific ordeal... every mum's worst nightmare.'  Afterwards, armed security guards were enlisted to protect Katie and her children as they carried on the filming of her reality TV show My Crazy Life.     
