{ By Kate Thomas for MailOnline   Published:  08:07, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7994523/Harper-Beckham-8-gets-hug-Justin-Bieber.html }
The Beckhams were VIP guests at Justin Bieber's new album preview in London on Tuesday night.  Harper, eight, couldn't contain her excitement as the Yummy hit-maker invited her on stage for a hug, beaming as she returned to her backstage vantage point alongside her brother Cruz, 14, following her brief appearance in front of the crowd. Doting dad David appeared to be enjoying it just as much as his kids, nodding along in tune to the music and enthusiastically filming every moment of the acoustic gig at Indigo at The 02. Cruz was dressed just like Bieber himself, rocking merchandise from the American star's Drew clothing range including a hoodie and a beanie hat. Harper was grinning from ear-to-ear as she trotted back to join her dad and her brother following Bieber's special tribute to her. David - who also raises children Brooklyn, 20, and Romeo, 17, with his wife Victoria - captioned his videos 'a hug and HUGE smile'.  This isn't the first time Harper has met Bieber since David took her treat-or-treating in LA at Halloween, stopping off at the singer and Hailey Baldwin's marital home. Justin treated the youngster to a snow cone, with David deeming the A-list pit stop the 'highlight of her night'.  Harper beamed as she held on to the snack, while David wrote over the picture: 'Highlight of her night... someone got her snow cone. Thanks Justin Bieber and Hailey Bieber'.  Justin's special gig was taking place ahead of the release of his highly-anticipated fifth studio album Changes on Friday.  Bieber, 25, took to Twitter to thank his fans for their support, writing: 'London was amazing. So grateful to be back on that stage doing what I love with all of you. Tour goes on sale with the album on Friday. #ChangesTour'. 'So amazing to see people hearing #changes for the first time', he also posted. Justin recently revealed what convinced him to kick drugs on his ongoing docuseries Justin Bieber: Seasons.  He said: 'I decided to stop [drugs] because I felt like I was dying. My security were coming into the room at night to check my pulse. People don't know how serious it got; it was legit crazy scary.' Feeling like he was at the end of his rope, Justin asked God for guidance. 'I basically said to myself, "God if you're real, you get me through this season of stopping these pills and stuff and if you do, I'll do the rest of the work." 'I did that and then I was good from there, but I never did the actual work. I got off the pills, but I never went to the root of everything. So then I just kind of circle back around, which most people do,' he admitted. Justin went on to say he began getting help, including going on antidepressants. 
