drugs
{ By Martin Robinson, Chief Reporter For Mailonline and Stephen Matthews Health Editor For Mailonline  and Sam Blanchard Senior Health Reporter For Mailonline and Connor Boyd Health Reporter For Mailonline and Jaya Narain   Published:  08:02, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7994583/A-E-medic-coronavirus-Virus-fear-grips-UK-NHS-hospital-worker-eight-deadly-bug.html }
Brighton's coronavirus crisis deepened today as it emerged a taxi driver has been told to self-isolate at home after he drove a confirmed patient, an A&E doctor was revealed to be infected and nine schools are on alert for possible cases. The web of cases and suspected transmissions around the city has become increasingly complex after details of the 'super-spreader', Steve Walsh, 53, were confirmed. It turned out that he had transmitted the virus to five other people in the city without even knowing and had visited numerous places before realising he was contagious. Now there are fears that the six Brighton patients have come into contact with people at a pub, community centre, two hospitals, seven GP practices, a mental health clinic, a care home, 11 schools, a youth football club and a taxi. As well as Mr Walsh, who was released from St Thomas' Hospital in London today, at least two doctors in Brighton and Hove have been confirmed as coronavirus patients. Both had worked shifts at a GP practice or hospital before being taken into isolation and more than a dozen patients, colleagues and visitors have been tracked down by Public Health England and warned they are at risk. A map of Brighton and East Sussex has now revealed at least 20 places along the coast where coronavirus has disrupted daily life and sent people into hiding. Developments in the UK's coronavirus cases include: No details have yet emerged of the taxi driver who is said to be in self-imposed quarantine at home after meeting one of the confirmed coronavirus patients. It is not known when the meeting occurred or how many other passengers he transported before realising what had happened.  At least half a dozen local taxi companies contacted by MailOnline said they did not know who the driver was. Lack of communication about the virus spreading has become a contentious issue in Brighton, which has been the epicentre of all but two of the UK's confirmed infections. Cases in the UK and where they are being cared for: Newcastle: Two Chinese nationals who came to the UK with coronavirus and fell ill while on the tourist trail in York. They were the first two cases on British soil and confirmed on January 31. Steve Walsh:  The first British coronavirus victim has become known as a super-spreader. He picked up the virus in Singapore - but flew for a ski break in France afterwards where he appears to have infected at least 11 people.   Dr Catriona Saynor, who went on the holiday with Mr Walsh along with her husband Bob and their three children, is thought to be the fourth patient in the UK diagnosed with coronavirus. Her husband and nine-year-old son were also diagnosed but remained in France. She is in hospital in London. Four more people in Brighton were diagnosed over the weekend and confirmed as cases. They were all 'known contacts' of the super-spreader and are thought to have stayed in the same French resort. One is known to be an A&E doctor and is believed to have worked at Worthing Hospital. Total in UK hospitals: Eight patients. Six Britons and two Chinese nationals  British expats and holidaymakers outside the UK and where they are being cared for: Majorca: A British father-of-two who stayed in the ski resort tested positive after returning to his home in Majorca. His wife and children are not ill. France: Five people who were in the chalet with the super-spreader. These include the chalet's owner, environmental consultant Bob Saynor, 48, and his nine-year-old son. They are all in a French hospital with three unnamed others.  Japan: A British man on board a cruise ship docked at a port in Japan tested positive for coronavirus, Princess Cruises said. Alan Steele, from Wolverhampton, posted on Facebook that he had been diagnosed with the virus. Steele said he was not showing any symptoms but was being taken to hospital. He was on his honeymoon. Total: Seven An unnamed doctor who works in Worthing A&E said that NHS bosses had not told staff that one of their colleagues had been diagnosed with SARS-CoV-2.   She said: 'I had to go into work this morning knowing someone in A&E had tested positive for coronavirus yet we had been told nothing. 'The first we heard about it was when we read it in the local newspaper. I was shocked and when I checked with colleagues I found they hadn’t been told either but were expected to turn up for work as normal. 'But what really angered me was managers knew about this and while they are telling everyone else about it only the people who were on duty at the time had been informed. 'I think, given the seriousness of the outbreak, the very least they could do is tell staff who are working under that threat. Staff are furious.'  Almost a dozen schools around East Sussex are on high alert for cases and have revealed they have pupils, parents or staff in self-isolation at home over concerns they might have the virus. Affected are Portslade Aldridge Community Academy (PACA), Lancing College Preparatory School at Hove, Brighton Girls, Bevendean Primary School, Hangleton Primary School, Varndean School, Balfour Primary School, Cottesmore St Mary’s Catholic Primary School, Carden Primary School and Ocklynge Junior School and Ratton School in Eastbourne. A pupil at PACA has been tested for the virus and confirmed negative, the school's headteacher announced today.  Meanwhile, seven GP practices have closed their doors to patients at some point during the past five days – some for deep cleaning, others for reasons which are unclear. County Oak Medical Centre, where one of the confirmed coronavirus patients, Dr Catriona Greenwood, works, was shut yesterday and workers pictured in protective gear disinfecting the building. Deneway Surgery, a branch owned by the same people, also closed its doors suddenly. Others which have shut without warning – although all have now reopened – include Seaford Medical Centre, Haven Practice, Seven Dials Medical Centre, The Avenue Surgery and New Pond Row Surgery.   NHS staff are at the centre of the city's coronavirus crisis after two GPs became infected with the virus following a ski trip to the French Alps with the 'super-spreader' Mr Walsh last month.    An A&E doctor is the second confirmed medic to test positive for the virus after GP Dr Greenwood, who is also known by her married name Saynor, fell ill last week.  The medic, who hasn’t been identified, treated a 'small number' of patients at Worthing Hospital on February 4 and 5 before they became ill and 'self-isolated' to contain the potential spread of the virus. Two nurses - including one who is pregnant - are reportedly being forcibly kept in quarantine after they treated a patient suspected of having coronavirus.  The nurses had treated a woman at The Haven in Mill View hospital, Hove, who is thought to have recently returned from holiday in Hong Kong, according to the Brighton Argus.  They are being kept in a room next door to the patient, a source said.  The nurses have been kept in the room since 8.30pm yesterday evening, after treating the woman in a suspected new case of the deadly illness.  Another source claimed that the nurses were working a night shift on the mental health ward when they were told they couldn't leave.   Public Health England says it has successfully tracked down all the patients, staff and visitors who came into contact with the doctors and told them to stay at home if they start to feel ill.  Brighton's crisis rumbles on as a prisoner at the centre of a suspected coronavirus outbreak at a high security jail has been revealed as an alleged drug-dealer who was extradited back to the UK from Thailand on January 27.  Mark Rumble, 31, from Oxfordshire, was sent back to the UK to face charges of a conspiracy to supply class A drugs. Rumble reportedly collapsed in his cell at HMP Bullingdon, close to Bicester, on Monday while a second inmate developed flu-like symptoms and a third other is also being tested for the illness.  Meanwhile, a prison nurse who first checked Rumble has put herself into 'self-isolation' at home.  Thailand's ministry now claims Rumble had no symptoms of the never-before-seen virus, which has struck down more than 45,000 people across the world, when he was tested before flying back to the UK. And it says he passed all of the standard health checks prisoners go through before they are extradited, claiming he wouldn't have been allowed to travel had he failed. A total of 33 cases of the coronavirus, now named COVID-19, have been diagnosed in Thailand – it was the first country outside of China to declare cases, on January 13. In total, more than 1,100 people have died from the illness. What is this virus? The SARS-CoV-2 virus has been identified as a new type of coronavirus. Coronaviruses are a large family of pathogens, most of which cause mild lung infections such as the common cold. But coronaviruses can also be deadly. SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome, is caused by a coronavirus and killed hundreds of people in China and Hong Kong in the early 2000s. Can the Wuhan coronavirus kill? Yes – more than 2,700 people have so far died after testing positive for the virus. What are the symptoms? The infection which the virus causes has been named COVID-19. Some people who catch it may not have any symptoms at all, or only very mild ones like a sore throat or a headache. Others may suffer from a fever, cough or trouble breathing.  And a small proportion of patients will go on to develop severe infection which can damage the lungs or cause pneumonia, a life-threatening condition which causes swelling and fluid build-up in the lungs. How is it detected? The virus's genetic sequencing was released by scientists in China and countries around the world have used this to create lab tests, which must be carried out to confirm an infection. Delays to these tests, to test results and to people getting to hospitals in China, mean the number of confirmed cases is expected to be just a fraction of the true scale of the outbreak.   How did it start and spread? The first cases identified were among people connected to the Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan. Cases have since been identified around China and are known to have spread from person to person. What are countries doing to prevent the spread? Countries all over the world have banned foreign travellers from crossing their borders if they have been to China within the past two weeks. Many airlines have cancelled or drastically reduced flights to and from mainland China. Is it similar to anything we've ever seen before? Experts have compared it to the 2003 outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). The epidemic started in southern China and killed more than 700 people in mainland China, Hong Kong and elsewhere. SCROLL DOWN OR CLICK HERE TO SEE MAILONLINE'S FULL Q&A ON THE CORONAVIRUS  Hundreds of inmates have been confined to their cells, with the prison reportedly gripped by panic. Results from Rumble and the other potentially infected inmates are expected within 24 hours.  A source told MailOnline: 'The entire wing is currently in lockdown and will be for the next 72 hours or so. 'That means that prisoners will remain in their cells for the duration and will be fed food on plates pushed through their door hatches.'  Another source told the Sun: 'The jail's been in panic mode since the first person collapsed. 'Several hundred prisoners on C-wing are in lockdown and unable to leave their cells. A prison is just about the worst place for any outbreak because everyone is in such close quarters.' Rumble was rushed to hospital and was understood to be in isolation in the jail's healthcare wing, but is currently being treated at a 'specialist hospital' outside of the prison walls. The prison source told MailOnline: 'One prisoner was found collapsed in his cell last night. He is understood to have recently arrived at Bullingdon from a jail in Thailand under a transferral scheme. 'He is being treated at a specialist hospital outside the prison. The two other prisoners were displaying flu-like symptoms and are in Bullingdon's hospital wing. 'All three prisoners were in single cells. A nurse who was in close proximity and contact with the collapsed prisoner has self-isolated as a precaution.' Officials from Public Health England were spotted at the prison and medics in hazmat suits entered the locked down wing.  The jail holds more than 1,000 inmates including sex offenders and prisoners on remand. It featured in a four-part ITV documentary on life behinds bars.  Rumble was arrested in Pattaya, Thailand, last November on suspicion of drugs offences. He is due to appear at Oxford Crown Court on February 20, where he is expected to plead not guilty. He is currently on remand. During his time in Thailand, he posted photos of himself in designer clothing and, in one image, with boxing legend Ricky Hatton.  All the coronavirus cases in Brighton have so far been linked to one unlucky businessman, Steve Walsh, who caught the illness while on a business trip to Singapore and didn't realise he had it. Mr Walsh broke his silence after discovering he was the source of an extraordinary web of cases stretching across the UK and Europe. Speaking from an NHS isolation room, the sales executive yesterday revealed he had ‘fully recovered’ and insisted he acted as quickly as possible once he realised the threat he posed. Two GP surgeries in his home city of Brighton and Hove have been closed and a nursing home was yesterday placed in lockdown as a precaution. Meanwhile, several schools have been told to place themselves in quarantine. One of the largest secondary schools in Brighton yesterday told parents a ‘member of its community’ was in quarantine because of suspected coronavirus contact.  Three patients have tested positive for coronavirus after initially being given the all-clear – raising the prospect of 'silent carriers'. The cases – reported yesterday in the US and Japan – raise the prospect that people can be infected with the disease while believing they are healthy. It also calls into question the accuracy of the test, which since the start of the outbreak has returned negative results for 1,350 patients in the UK. However, scientists claim such occurrences are 'common' when patients have not yet entered the 'diagnostic window' – when infections are large enough to be detected. Professor Richard Tedder, an expert in viruses from Imperial College London, explained that if individuals were tested very soon after they have become infected, there may not be enough of the virus in the body to show up on the analysis. He stressed that 'on the balance of probability' these patients were unlikely to be infectious at that time.  One case involved a Japanese man in his 50s who had fled the Chinese city of Wuhan on an evacuation flight on January 29.  He was tested twice and both came back negative, but a third test on Monday – 12 days later – was positive. He has been isolated in his hotel room since his return from China. The second man, who is in his 40s, returned from Wuhan on January 30 and initially tested negative but was diagnosed with the virus on Monday. He is also understood to have been in isolation.   Professor Tedder, a visiting professor in medical virology, said: 'This is inevitable when you are sampling people shortly after they have become infected. This is common to all infections – a so-called diagnostic window. 'I don't think we should be unduly worried by these cases.' Varndean School, which has around 1,300 pupils, was one of the schools in the city to announce that somebody connected to it had been told to ‘self-isolate’ for 14 days by Public Heath England.  Parents at Cottesmore St Mary’s Catholic Primary School in Hove told of their shock after learning two pupils – thought to be Mr Walsh’s children – were in quarantine. Carden Primary School and the Hollingbury school, which is opposite the County Oak Medical Centre, are the latest two, according to Brighton and Hove News. Two Eastbourne schools, Ocklynge Junior School and Ratton secondary school, have also emailed parents after a teacher was told to self-isolate for a fortnight.  Brighton super spreader Steve Walsh, a cub scout leader and father-of-two from Hove who children refer to as Shere Khan after the tiger from Jungle Book, contracted the virus after travelling to a business conference in Singapore in mid-January. But after almost two weeks of carrying the virus, authorities discovered he was linked to at least 11 cases in the UK, France and Spain. Yesterday, authorities were still tracking the contacts of Mr Walsh and his five associates – including two GPs – who have also tested positive in the Brighton area over the last few days. One of the two infected GPs also worked at the A&E unit at Worthing Hospital in West Sussex, which was last night contacting patients and staff to tell them what precautions they should take. The doctor, who has not been identified, treated a ‘small number’ of patients at the hospital on February 4 and 5 before they became unwell and ‘self-isolated’. Boris Johnson last night said the UK should be ‘confident and calm’ over the threat of coronavirus. Speaking in Birmingham, the Prime Minister praised the response of the NHS and said anyone concerned should ‘simply follow their advice’. During Mr Walsh’s 6,736-mile journey home from Singapore, he stopped in the French Alps for a four-day ski holiday. Several of his associates on the trip have since tested positive. He contacted his GP, the NHS’s 111 helpline and Public Health England as soon as he realised he may have encountered the virus at the conference. ‘I was advised to attend an isolated room at hospital, despite showing no symptoms, and subsequently self-isolated at home as instructed,’ he said. ‘When the diagnosis was confirmed I was sent to an isolation unit in hospital, where I remain, and, as a precaution, my family was also asked to isolate themselves.’ The businessman has been treated at St Thomas’ Hospital in London since his case was confirmed last Thursday. He is an employee of Servomex, a British gas analytics firm that organised the conference in the Grand Hyatt hotel in Singapore where he and employees in other countries contracted the virus. After returning home to the UK on January 28, Mr Walsh was told to work from home by his company over then-unfounded concerns about the virus’s circulation at the conference. But he is understood to have gone about his everyday life as normal until February 3 when the company found out that one of the conference’s 94 attendees had contracted the virus. The cases related to Mr Walsh have prompted authorities to hunt for all those who may have come into contact with him and the other carriers. The killer coronavirus could infect more than 60 per cent of the global population if containment methods fail, a top Hong Kong medical official has claimed. Professor Gabriel Leung, chair of public health medicine in the city, also said even if the death rate sits at one per cent, it could still kill millions of people.  With the global population currently at more than 7billion, that means the virus has the potential to infect more than 4billion, if Professor Leung is correct and its spread continues to accelerate.  And if one per cent of those people die, that means there will be more than 45million deaths.  But World Health Organization chiefs yesterday urged virologists to stop 'throwing around figures that there is no basis for'.  However, the number of new cases reported in China each day has begun to level off, declining five out of the last eight days.  It doesn't mean the outbreak – which began at the end of December – has peaked, but scientists tackling the crisis say it is an encouraging sign.  More than 45,000 people in almost 30 countries have caught the never-before-seen virus, which has been named COVID-19. At least 1,100 have died. The vast majority of coronavirus cases have been in mainland China, but more than 25 other countries and territories have declared infections:  Experts studying the outbreak, which began in the deserted Chinese city of Wuhan, expect cases will continue to increase. They also say the true toll will be much higher than figures show because thousands of patients have only mild symptoms or are asymptomatic.  The hope is that, with both knowledge of and the diagnostic test for coronavirus now more widespread, people are being diagnosed more quickly. This means they can be moved to isolation to contain the spread, which should help keep infections from reaching their maximum potential.   But Professor Leung told The Guardian during a visit to London that the priority now is to establish the size and shape of the 'epidemic iceberg'.  Mike Ryan, the executive director of World Health Organization's health emergencies programme, said: 'Everyone is talking about staying calm and keeping our populations calm.  'Yet every chance we get we seem like we want to accelerate the infodemic and not contain the epidemic. 'Let's be careful in throwing around figures, speculation and scaring people. I just caution everybody to not start throwing around figures that there is no basis for at the moment.' And on Monday, Dr Nancy Messonnier, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, said that she and her agency 'absolutely assume that the reported cases are an underestimate' during a National Press Club event.  Most experts believe that each infected person has gone on to transmit the virus to around 2.5 people, giving an 'attack rate' of 60 to 80 per cent. The death rate, however, is thought to be much lower. Professor Leung expects it to be around one per cent once milder cases, that have not been diagnosed, are taken into account.  'Is 60 to 80 per cent of the world's population going to get infected?,' he asked, 'Maybe not. Maybe this virus will come in waves. 'Maybe the virus is going to attenuate its lethality because it certainly doesn't help it if it kills everybody in its path, because it will get killed as well.' Thirty nine new cases of coronavirus have been confirmed on a cruise ship quarantined at a Japanese port. The update brings the total found on the Diamond Princess to 174 cases. The ministry also said the virus was confirmed in a official who participated in the initial quarantine checks the night the ship returned to Yokohama Port near Tokyo on February 3.  The quarantine official is being treated in the hospital. The new cases bring Japan's total to 203 people infected by the the new virus, COVID-19. The night of the ship's arrival, Japanese health officials began medical checks on all of the ship's 3,700 passengers and crew after one previous passenger tested positive for the virus. The U.S.-operated Diamond Princess had completed a 14-day tour during which it stopped at Hong Kong and several other Asian ports before returning to Japan. Japanese government and tour company officials have said they were notified by Hong Kong that an 80-year-old male passenger who got off the boat there later tested positive for the virus. After establishing the epidemic's scale, he said they would then need to establish whether containment methods being used are effective at stopping the spread of the virus.  The intensity of a outbreak's spread is based on a measure used by epidemiologists, called R0 - pronounced 'R naught.'  It estimates how many people each infected person infects in turn. In the case of the coronavirus epidemic, the number is around 2.5 people. In contrast, the rate for measles is around 15. But the actual spread - as opposed to the maximum - fluctuates as more data becomes available and containment methods evolve.  For example, if a wave of new cases were diagnosed today, in people who might have been infected for some time but were asymptomatic, the spread estimate would increase.  If tomorrow, a higher percentage of those identified as potentially infected were isolated more quickly, it could lower experts' estimates of the spread.  Predicting the epidemic curve - or progression - of coronavirus can help public health agencies prepare for the worst, and give a rough estimate, but these are notoriously inaccurate to the actual intensity of an outbreak, especially in its earliest days.  Governments worldwide are currently focusing on containment to prevent the spread of the virus but, if it fails, this response will switch to mitigation. China locked-down cities infected by coronavirus, including Wuhan at the virus's epicentre, in a desperate effort to stop the disease spreading. Cruise ships such as the Diamond Princess off the coast of Japan have been isolated after coronavirus cases were identified, and many countries have isolated travellers returning from Wuhan and other areas of China. There have been allegations that China has not accurately reported the spread of coronavirus and the number of people killed by it, making the virus's 'infection iceberg' harder to figure out. Wuhan medic Jeisi Luo, not his real name, warned that there are likely many more infections than reported due to limited test kits and the fact that people are dying before they are diagnosed. 'When preliminary tests determine that a patient has a lung sickness, the nucleic acid test which detects the virus, cannot always be carried out because the waiting list is too long,' he said. 'The patient is therefore not diagnosed.' Medics are instead dealing with the crisis by sending people home with medicine and advising them to 'self-isolate'. Social media reports have also alleged that China's body burning facilities in Wuhan are working flat out, suggesting that the death toll from the virus may be significantly higher than the country has reported.  Someone who is infected with the coronavirus can spread it with just a simple cough or a sneeze, scientists say. Over 2,700 people with the virus are now confirmed to have died and more than 80,000 have been infected. But experts predict the true number of people with the disease could be as high as 350,000 in Wuhan alone.  Here's what we know so far: What is the coronavirus?  A coronavirus is a type of virus which can cause illness in animals and people. Viruses break into cells inside their host and use them to reproduce itself and disrupt the body's normal functions. Coronaviruses are named after the Latin word 'corona', which means crown, because they are encased by a spiked shell which resembles a royal crown. The coronavirus from Wuhan is one which has never been seen before this outbreak. It has been named SARS-CoV-2 by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses. The name stands for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus 2. Experts say the bug, which has killed around one in 50 patients since the outbreak began in December, is a 'sister' of the SARS illness which hit China in 2002, so has been named after it. The disease that the virus causes has been named COVID-19, which stands for coronavirus disease 2019. Dr Helena Maier, from the Pirbright Institute, said: 'Coronaviruses are a family of viruses that infect a wide range of different species including humans, cattle, pigs, chickens, dogs, cats and wild animals.  'Until this new coronavirus was identified, there were only six different coronaviruses known to infect humans. Four of these cause a mild common cold-type illness, but since 2002 there has been the emergence of two new coronaviruses that can infect humans and result in more severe disease (Severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) coronaviruses).  'Coronaviruses are known to be able to occasionally jump from one species to another and that is what happened in the case of SARS, MERS and the new coronavirus. The animal origin of the new coronavirus is not yet known.'  The first human cases were publicly reported from the Chinese city of Wuhan, where approximately 11million people live, after medics first started publicly reporting infections on December 31. By January 8, 59 suspected cases had been reported and seven people were in critical condition. Tests were developed for the new virus and recorded cases started to surge. The first person died that week and, by January 16, two were dead and 41 cases were confirmed. The next day, scientists predicted that 1,700 people had become infected, possibly up to 7,000. Just a week after that, there had been more than 800 confirmed cases and those same scientists estimated that some 4,000 – possibly 9,700 – were infected in Wuhan alone. By that point, 26 people had died.  By January 27, more than 2,800 people were confirmed to have been infected, 81 had died, and estimates of the total number of cases ranged from 100,000 to 350,000 in Wuhan alone. By January 29, the number of deaths had risen to 132 and cases were in excess of 6,000.   By February 5, there were more than 24,000 cases and 492 deaths. By February 11, this had risen to more than 43,000 cases and 1,000 deaths.  A change in the way cases are confirmed on February 13 – doctors decided to start using lung scans as a formal diagnosis, as well as laboratory tests – caused a spike in the number of cases, to more than 60,000 and to 1,369 deaths. By February 25, around 80,000 people had been infected and some 2,700 had died.  Where does the virus come from? According to scientists, the virus almost certainly came from bats. Coronaviruses in general tend to originate in animals – the similar SARS and MERS viruses are believed to have originated in civet cats and camels, respectively. The first cases of COVID-19 came from people visiting or working in a live animal market in Wuhan, which has since been closed down for investigation. Although the market is officially a seafood market, other dead and living animals were being sold there, including wolf cubs, salamanders, snakes, peacocks, porcupines and camel meat.  A study by the Wuhan Institute of Virology, published in February 2020 in the scientific journal Nature, found that the genetic make-up virus samples found in patients in China is 96 per cent identical to a coronavirus they found in bats. However, there were not many bats at the market so scientists say it was likely there was an animal which acted as a middle-man, contracting it from a bat before then transmitting it to a human. It has not yet been confirmed what type of animal this was. Dr Michael Skinner, a virologist at Imperial College London, was not involved with the research but said: 'The discovery definitely places the origin of nCoV in bats in China. 'We still do not know whether another species served as an intermediate host to amplify the virus, and possibly even to bring it to the market, nor what species that host might have been.'   So far the fatalities are quite low. Why are health experts so worried about it?  Experts say the international community is concerned about the virus because so little is known about it and it appears to be spreading quickly. It is similar to SARS, which infected 8,000 people and killed nearly 800 in an outbreak in Asia in 2003, in that it is a type of coronavirus which infects humans' lungs. It is less deadly than SARS, however. Another reason for concern is that nobody has any immunity to the virus because they've never encountered it before. This means it may be able to cause more damage than viruses we come across often, like the flu or common cold. Speaking at a briefing in January, Oxford University professor, Dr Peter Horby, said: 'Novel viruses can spread much faster through the population than viruses which circulate all the time because we have no immunity to them. 'Most seasonal flu viruses have a case fatality rate of less than one in 1,000 people. Here we're talking about a virus where we don't understand fully the severity spectrum but it's possible the case fatality rate could be as high as two per cent.' If the death rate is truly two per cent, that means two out of every 100 patients who get it will die.  'My feeling is it's lower,' Dr Horby added. 'We're probably missing this iceberg of milder cases. But that's the current circumstance we're in. 'Two per cent case fatality rate is comparable to the Spanish Flu pandemic in 1918 so it is a significant concern globally.' How does the virus spread? The illness can spread between people just through coughs and sneezes, making it an extremely contagious infection. And it may also spread even before someone has symptoms. It is believed to travel in the saliva and even through water in the eyes, therefore close contact, kissing, and sharing cutlery or utensils are all risky.  Originally, people were thought to be catching it from a live animal market in Wuhan city. But cases soon began to emerge in people who had never been there, which forced medics to realise it was spreading from person to person. There is now evidence that it can spread third hand – to someone from a person who caught it from another person. What does the virus do to you? What are the symptoms? Once someone has caught the COVID-19 virus it may take between two and 14 days, or even longer, for them to show any symptoms – but they may still be contagious during this time. If and when they do become ill, typical signs include a runny nose, a cough, sore throat and a fever (high temperature). The vast majority of patients – at least 97 per cent, based on available data – will recover from these without any issues or medical help. In a small group of patients, who seem mainly to be the elderly or those with long-term illnesses, it can lead to pneumonia. Pneumonia is an infection in which the insides of the lungs swell up and fill with fluid. It makes it increasingly difficult to breathe and, if left untreated, can be fatal and suffocate people. What have genetic tests revealed about the virus?  Scientists in China have recorded the genetic sequences of around 19 strains of the virus and released them to experts working around the world.  This allows others to study them, develop tests and potentially look into treating the illness they cause.    Examinations have revealed the coronavirus did not change much – changing is known as mutating – much during the early stages of its spread. However, the director-general of China's Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Gao Fu, said the virus was mutating and adapting as it spread through people. This means efforts to study the virus and to potentially control it may be made extra difficult because the virus might look different every time scientists analyse it.    More study may be able to reveal whether the virus first infected a small number of people then change and spread from them, or whether there were various versions of the virus coming from animals which have developed separately. How dangerous is the virus?   The virus has a death rate of around two per cent. This is a similar death rate to the Spanish Flu outbreak which, in 1918, went on to kill around 50million people. However, experts say the true number of patients is likely considerably higher and therefore the death rate considerably lower. Imperial College London researchers estimate that there were 4,000 (up to 9,700) cases in Wuhan city alone up to January 18 – officially there were only 444 there to that date. If cases are in fact 100 times more common than the official figures, the virus may be far less dangerous than currently believed, but also far more widespread.  Experts say it is likely only the most seriously ill patients who are seeking help and are therefore recorded – the vast majority will have only mild, cold-like symptoms. For those whose conditions do become more severe, there is a risk of developing pneumonia which can destroy the lungs and kill them.  Can the virus be cured?  The COVID-19 virus cannot be cured and it is proving difficult to contain. Antibiotics do not work against viruses, so they are out of the question. Antiviral drugs can work, but the process of understanding a virus then developing and producing drugs to treat it would take years and huge amounts of money. No vaccine exists for the coronavirus yet and it's not likely one will be developed in time to be of any use in this outbreak, for similar reasons to the above. The National Institutes of Health in the US, and Baylor University in Waco, Texas, say they are working on a vaccine based on what they know about coronaviruses in general, using information from the SARS outbreak. But this may take a year or more to develop, according to Pharmaceutical Technology. Currently, governments and health authorities are working to contain the virus and to care for patients who are sick and stop them infecting other people. People who catch the illness are being quarantined in hospitals, where their symptoms can be treated and they will be away from the uninfected public. And airports around the world are putting in place screening measures such as having doctors on-site, taking people's temperatures to check for fevers and using thermal screening to spot those who might be ill (infection causes a raised temperature). However, it can take weeks for symptoms to appear, so there is only a small likelihood that patients will be spotted up in an airport. Is this outbreak an epidemic or a pandemic?    The outbreak is an epidemic, which is when a disease takes hold of one community such as a country or region.  Although it has spread to dozens of countries, the outbreak is not yet classed as a pandemic, which is defined by the World Health Organization as the 'worldwide spread of a new disease'. The head of WHO's global infectious hazard preparedness, Dr Sylvie Briand, said: 'Currently we are not in a pandemic. We are at the phase where it is an epidemic with multiple foci, and we try to extinguish the transmission in each of these foci,' the Guardian reported. She said that most cases outside of Hubei had been 'spillover' from the epicentre, so the disease wasn't actually spreading actively around the world. 
