drugs
{ By Sean O'grady For Mailonline   Published:  18:15, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7992141/Justin-Bieber-mobbed-fans-London-ahead-performing-intimate-acoustic-gig-02.html }
Justin Bieber was mobbed by legions of fans as he stepped out in central London on Tuesday. The singer, 25, was in high demand as he was surrounded by several fans who took out their phones to take snaps of the star. Justin is in London to perform an intimate acoustic set followed by a fan Q&A session at Indigo at The 02 on Tuesday. The gig takes place ahead of the release of Justin's highly-anticipated fifth studio album Changes on Friday. Justin cut a casual figure for the day, donning a black jumper which he wore with a pair of loose-fitting blue jeans. Sporting dyed blonde hair and his moustache, Justin was joined by a security guard for the outing.  It comes after Justin recently revealed what convinced him to kick drugs on his ongoing docuseries Justin Bieber: Seasons.        He said: 'I decided to stop [drugs] because I felt like I was dying. My security were coming into the room at night to check my pulse. People don't know how serious it got; it was legit crazy scary.' Feeling like he was at the end of his rope, Justin asked God for guidance. 'I basically said to myself, "God if you're real, you get me through this season of stopping these pills and stuff and if you do, I'll do the rest of the work." 'I did that and then I was good from there, but I never did the actual work. I got off the pills, but I never went to the root of everything. So then I just kind of circle back around, which most people do,' he admitted. Justin went on to say he began getting help, including going on antidepressants. He said: 'I've abused my body in the past and now I'm just in the recovery process trying to make sure I'm taking care of my body and taking care of the vessel that God's given me… 'There's so many people that have gifts, and an opportunity to make a change, and they end up either losing it or using their gifts for selfish reasons.' Justin's wife Hailey Bieber, 23, also appears in the documentary, and whilst she didn't meet the star until after he was sober, she can understand why he turned to drugs to make himself 'feel better'. She said: 'I think when you take somebody very, very young and they get horrible, crazy crippling anxiety and it goes undiagnosed and you don't know what it is you are feeling, you start to self-medicate because it makes you feel better. Just helping not to feel anything.' Now, the Love Yourself singer has an oxygen chamber in his house to help with his anxiety, and goes through nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) IV treatment to help flush toxins out of his body. Explaining the NAD process, Hailey said: 'For people who used to have a drug problem, when they get sober, the pleasure centers of their brain don't work the same.  'So what NAD does is actually helps to repair that part of that brain and it helps repair the pleasure centers to balance them back out.' Justin and Hailey were first married in a New York courthouse in September 2018, with a second star-studded wedding last summer in South Carolina.  
