drugs
{ By Carly Stern For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:33, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7991843/Noah-Centineo-opens-drug-use-three-years-getting-sober.html }
Noah Centineo has been sober for nearly three years, but the To All the Boys I Loved Before star has shared details of his drug abuse today as he poses for a very sexy photoshoot The 23-year-old went through a party phase in his late teens and very early 20s, doing just about 'everything' when it came to drugs.  'I smoked a lot of things. I was really upset, man. It was a really dark time in my life,' he told HarpersBazaar.com as he posed for the men's digital cover 'There wasn’t really much I wouldn't do. I never, ever injected anything, which is good,' he said, adding that he and friends would 'take Molly and talk for five hours and like get to the bottom of some really deeply philosophical existential questions.'   In 2018, he told fans that he was 'completely sober' and doesn't smoke, drink, or do drugs — but had done them a lot before getting clean. He said that he started at age 17, and was 'partying like crazy' until the day before his 17th birthday. 'So I stopped doing all that and I found that a lot of problems I was having in my life, slowly, they didn't go away, they just became way more apparent to me,' he said at the time.   'When I stopped smoking cigarettes, when I stopped anxiety medication, when I stopped drinking alcohol, and I replaced those habits with yoga and working out, I very quickly over a two month period... I was like, woah, these are my problems.' Noah started to try to push away his problems in part because of struggles that arose during his teenage years. When he was 15, his parents divorced, and while his older sister went to live with sister lived with their dad, he lived with mom in a hotel room for months  'As the 15-year-old living in close quarters with my mom, I felt an obligation to step up and fill a role, fill a position that was vacant at that time, you know, and in doing so, I bristled and I kind of shoved down a lot of emotion,' he told HarpersBazaar.com. These days, he lets it out and does 'a lot of freaking out' — but works on healthy habits for staying calm.  'I like baths. I like meditation. I like journaling,' he said. 'I talk to myself a lot if I’m mad at something that I did. I’ll scream at myself, really, like,” he grimaces, “looking in the mirror, right? Like, in my room. Like, "Dude, like, stop, this is f***ing unacceptable. You’re better than this!"  'I hold myself very accountable, but I can talk myself off of ledges too. And that’s a strong thing.' Noah also touched on some less-heavy subjects, including how he buzzed off most of his hair and now people think he's 'shifted into a more masculine brooding type.' He showed off the cut in the photoshoot, giving a moody stare to the camera as he posed in an unbuttoned shirt. In other shots, he gives his signature sexy raised-eyebrow look, modeling shirts with extra buttons undone to show off his chest hair. Noah talked, too, about his relationship with model Alexis Ren. The two were first spotted out together last April, and made their relationship red carpet official last fall. 'It’s the longest relationship I’ve ever been in,' he said. 'She’s very good at monogamy. Actually, I love monogamy too.' He also admitted he is not a fan of one-night stands.  'Dude, you ever actually have one? Ninety percent of the time, they’re not good,' he said. 
