drugs
{ By Terri-ann Williams For Mailonline   Published:  16:31, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7991757/Manchester-Arena-bombers-brother-dopey-teenager-nicknamed-Goofy-enjoyed-alcohol.html }
The brother of the Manchester Arena bomber was a dopey teenager nicknamed goofy who enjoyed alcohol and ecstasy but was scared of his older brother, a court has heard.  Hashem Abedi dressed in Western clothes, and looked like a 'usual teenager in the area,' his defence counsel has said.  Abedi, 22, specialised in rolling big spliffs and was involved in a gang war in Manchester, when he was attacked with a hammer, the Old Bailey was told. But he was scared of his older brother, Salman, who had hit him 'a few times', and hid his drug taking from him, Stephen Kamlish QC, defending said. Hashem Abedi is accused of the murder of the 22 victims and the attempted murder of others after allegedly helping Salman buy chemicals and make the bomb. The nephew of the owner of a Stockport takeaway where Hashem Abedi worked, appeared at the Old Bailey, screened off from members of the victims' families. Both of them had an interest in smoking cannabis and Hashem liked to take other drugs as well, including the tranquilizer Tramadol and the party drugs ecstasy and MDMA, as well as drinking alcohol, Mr Kamlish said. The takeaway worker drove a BMW which they nicknamed the 'hotbox' because they would drive it to a park and as they smoked cannabis, the car would fill up with smoke. 'Most people couldn't smoke weed in their homes, in front of families,' Mr Kamlish said. In January 2017, the worker and others bought a 1/4oz of cannabis from a drug dealer whose name began with L, and went to Deansgate in central Manchester to smoke it. 'Sometimes you and he would make an extra large spliff?' Mr Kamlish asked. 'Yes, that was his speciality,' the colleague said. 'Hashem said he could not go home, I'm too messed up and reason was that his brother Salman disapproved,' Mr Kamlish added. They went to Archie's restaurant to 'sober him up and make him more presentable' and he thought his brother wouldn't notice, Mr Kamlish added. The defence barrister said that Hashem Abedi was 'scared' of his brother and called him 'Big Brother.' 'He never wanted his brother to know he smoked weed or did anything naughty,' he added. The colleague told police that Hashem was a 'little bit here and there' as a Muslim and he would complain about brother making him go to the mosque. 'He complained about his brother making him do a lot of things, he just wanted to chill,' the witness said. Hashem Abedi was nicknamed 'Goofy' after the dopey Disney cartoon character, the court heard. 'He was clumsy, a little stupid, and like Goofy,' the witness told police. On Hashem Abedis' birthday in April 2017, the friends went to a party with others in Manley Park, Whalley Range when they subjected him to 'birthday beats' which was a 'fake beating, like a college fraternity you see in films,' Mr Kamlish said. 'He was so worried that Salman would see he'd been taking drugs and been roughed up, he got you to look for eye drops and you and he drove off to a distant Tesco,' he said. There was fighting between youngsters in Moss Side and Rushholme and the colleagues' younger brother was stabbed in the chest. In the same fight, Hashem Abedi allegedly got 'hammered', by being hit in the face with a hammer and, in May 2016, a teenager was killed. 'After that, people tended to stay on the streets less in that area and people's parents tried to get them not to be on the street so much - stabbing, hammerings and beatings - people who might have been seen on the street in the first half 2016 would be absent in the second half.' Hashem Abedi denies 22 counts of murder and further counts of attempted murder and conspiracy to cause explosions and the trial continues. Elaine McIver, 43: The off-duty police officer died in the attack, which injured her husband and children Saffie Rose Roussos , 8: The youngest victim was separated from her mother and sister in the seconds after the blast. Sorrell Leczkowski , 14: Schoolgirl died in the bomb blast, while her mother, Samantha and grandmother Pauline were badly hurt. Eilidh MacLeod , 14: Confirmed dead having been missing since being caught up in the blast with her friend Laura MacIntyre. Nell Jones , 14: Farmer's daughter travelled to the pop concert with her best friend for her 14th birthday.  Olivia Campbell-Hardy , 15: Her family searched desperately for her for nearly 48 hours and even went on TV to plead for news, before they learned of her death. Megan Hurley , 15: The Liverpool schoolgirl was with her brother who suffered serious injuries in the blast.  Georgina Callander , 18: Met Ariana Grande backstage at a previous gig and died in hospital with her mother at her bedside. Chloe Rutherford , 17, and Liam Curry , 19: Couple from South Shields 'wanted to be together forever and now they are', their family said. Courtney Boyle , 19, and Philip Tron , 32: Criminology student and her stepfather were confirmed dead following a Facebook appeal.   John Atkinson , 26: Pop fan from Radcliffe, Greater Manchester, was in a local dance group and was leaving the gig when the blast happened. Martyn Hett , 29: Public relations manager from Stockport, who was due to start a two-month 'holiday of a lifetime' to the US two days later.  Kelly Brewster , 32: Civil servant from Sheffield who died trying to shield her 11-year-old niece. Marcin Kils , 42, and Angelika Kils , 39: Both killed as they waited for their daughters who both survived the blast. Michelle Kiss , 45: Mother-of-three from Clitheroe, Lancashire, went to the gig with her daughter. Alison Lowe , 44, and friend Lisa Lees , 43: Both killed when they arrived to pick up their teenage daughters who were not hurt. Wendy Fawell , 50: Mother from Leeds was killed while picking up her children with a friend. Jane Taylor , 50: Mother of three from Blackpool was killed as she waited to collect a friend's daughter.   
