{ By Henry Martin and Rory Tingle For Mailonline   Published:  16:10, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7991395/Online-steroid-dealer-killed-bulimic-student-21-selling-toxic-slimming-pills.html }
A bulimic student was killed by an online steroid dealer who sold her a 'Russian Roulette' toxic slimming drug containing a poisonous substance used to make World War I bombs, a court heard today.    Eloise Parry, 21, bought pills containing DNP from Bernard Rebelo, 32, before collapsing dead on 12 April 2015, the Old Bailey was told.     The ingestion of the drug, which had been used as a base material for munitions products during the First World War, has been compared on social media to playing Russian Roulette but is popular among dieters for its 'fat-burning' qualities.  Ms Parry who was 'vulnerable and deeply troubled' suffered a fatal heart attack after taking eight capsules advertised by Rebelo on online forums such as Reddit, jurors heard. Rebelo tricked UK customs by mislabelling packages of the lethal 'devils cut agent' he had ordered from China as turmeric, it was said. He demanded online payment via the crypto-currency Bitcoin and managed to resurrect his websites after they were repeatedly taken down by the FSA and Interpol, the court heard. Jurors were told today that the trial follows a ruling by the Court of Appeal that the dealer should be retried for manslaughter. 'Rebelo was tried by a jury for the same offence of manslaughter in 2018 but the Court of Appeal has decided that he should be retried. This is the retrial,' prosecutor Richard Barraclough, QC, said. The young woman was sold the drugs for more than two months by Rebelo while her eating disorder continued to deteriorate. The prosecutor told the court: 'On 12 April 2015 a vulnerable and deeply troubled young woman aged 21 years suffered a most distressing death having bought from the defendant on the internet and consumed a highly toxic chemical called DNP which was being sold as a slimming agent. 'Eloise had an eating disorder and had been diagnosed as bulimic.   'She started to buy 2,4 dintrophenol (DNP) from the defendant in February 2015. She became at least psychologically addicted to and dependent on the chemical. 'DNP was first used as a base material for munitions in the First World War. It was then used in the 1930s to promote weight loss because it was found to stimulate the human metabolism and eat away calories consumed. 'Despite its toxicity, it has also been used as a ''fat burning'' and weight reducing product. 'It caused a number of deaths and was banned in the USA. With the advent of the internet it was again sold worldwide with, in certain cases, devastating consequence.' The prosecutor told jurors the defendant had bought DNP, a yellow powder, from an industrial chemical factory in China. It was supplied in drums to his flat in Harrow, London, where he put the powder into capsules and sold them on the internet, the court was told.      'The profits from the undertaking were considerable,' the prosecutor said. 'The defendant had started his operation with the sale of steroids to bodybuilders and then moved into the DNP market. 'He went to great lengths to disguise the product he was supplying by labelling and misdescribing it in such a way as to deceive customs and enforcing authorities in the UK and elsewhere.' The court heard his website was shut down on occasion but he resurrected it.  The prosecutor continued: 'He knew it was dangerous not only because one of his associates had consumed DNP and had suffered some of its toxic effects which in his case were not fatal but because it was well known that any number of authorities and organisations were warning against the dangers of consuming the chemical. 'He knew that the product which he sent to customers was being seized by the authorities. He did his own research which described the dangers of the chemical. 'Messages on specialist social media sites with which he was engaged described it as "straight poison" and "the devils cut agent". 'The business also used Bitcoins and would offer a generous discount for customers using this method because 'it is an anonymous and safe method of paying that saves us the hassle of frozen bank accounts and Western Union transactions.' Mr Barraclough told jurors Rebelo had already been convicted of selling unsafe food for human consumption. 'Having been already convicted of placing an unsafe food on the market for human consumption he will accept that the DNP he supplied was indeed supplied for human consumption,' the prosecutor said. Rebelo, of Harrow, denies manslaughter. The trial continues. 
