drugs
{ By Alexander Robertson For Mailonline   Published:  12:07, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7990607/Teacher-struck-secret-MILF-DILF-Facebook-chats.html }
A female teacher who sent sexual texts to a former student and allowed her to mark other pupils' exam papers has been struck off. Kate McCann discussed sex, drugs and booze with the anonymous teenager in thousands of secret Facebook messages discovered by her shocked parents. The 40-year-old also discussed sex with her husband, lingerie and condoms with the teenager in messages that were sometimes sent while she was working at school. In one exchange, Mrs McCann divided her teaching colleagues into MILFS, meaning 'mothers I would love to f***', and DILFS, which stands for 'dads I would love to f***'. A report issued yesterday following a panel hearing in Coventry found her guilty of misconduct and struck her from the teaching profession indefinitely. The findings noted how the teenager was allowed to mark exam papers in 'an act that could have serious repercussions for the educational future of those pupils'. The pair also discussed meeting up for coffee and chats using code words such as 'venue A' and 'venue B'. Mrs McCann had taught at the school, which has not been named, since September 2001. In August 2017, a complaint was received by the parents of a former pupil. They said Mrs McCann had befriended their daughter, referred to only as Individual A, over Facebook.  Mrs McCann, whose maiden name was Smith, accepted exchanging messages with Individual A during July 2017 and that eight had been inappropriate. Mrs McCann said a 'co-dependent friendship' had developed between the two but accepted that the messages were inappropriate and resigned. A misconduct hearing was told the teacher accepted she had received and accepted a 'Facebook friend request' from Individual A in June 2017. A colleague confirmed that while studying at the school, Individual A and had 'developed a strong relationship with Mrs McCann who provided her with support'. It was made clear this relationship was 'entirely appropriate and helped Individual A when she was suffering personal difficulties in her last year at the school'. The panel found that there had been thousands of exchanges on Facebook Messenger between the two between July and August 2017. Because shortly after the girl had left school, the panel said it would refer to her as a pupil. The panel said: 'Mrs McCann acknowledged the messages were inappropriate but that she had got "caught up in what was going on" and treated Individual A like a friend. 'Mrs McCann also accepted that, within the messages, "hummus" was used as a slang term for sex.  'The panel could clearly see from the messages that there were a large number that referred to sex or sexual activity in some manner, including discussions of Mrs McCann's sex life with her husband, underwear and condoms. 'Mrs McCann had accepted being known to Individual A as her 'school mum' and this was a term used to indicate the level of support provided during the school day. 'The panel noted that there were a significant number of messages, sent by both Mrs McCann and Individual A, that referenced each other as 'mother' or 'daughter' - or some variance of the same.'  Other messages sent by Mrs McCann to the pupil, told her when she would 'wake her up', 'to go to bed' and to 'brush her teeth' which was 'akin to how a parent may deal with their child'. The teenager's parents were also shocked to find comments on their parenting and discussions about when their daughter should leave home. Banning her from the classroom for at least five years, Alan Meyrick said: 'There was no evidence that Individual A had, in fact, been harmed by Mrs McCann's actions although a potential risk was present. 'The panel also noted that the conduct had taken place in a relatively short period of time and only one pupil was directly impacted. 'Nevertheless, the panel also considered that whilst Mrs McCann's actions were extremely serious, especially in respect of the issues surrounding her dereliction of safeguarding duties involving a vulnerable pupil, which she had not properly explained at any point.' The school was not named in the report and Mrs McCann's teaching role there was also redacted. 
