drugs
{ By Laura Fox For Mailonline   Published:  17:00, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8038223/EastEnders-cast-celebrate-soaps-35th-Anniversary-wild-party.html }
EastEnders cast celebrated the soap's 35th Anniversary in spectacular fashion, as they let their hair down at a wild party in London's Hackney Town on Saturday. Leading the glamour were Shona McGarty and Danielle Harold as they displayed their amazing legs in glamorous cocktail dresses, while Gillian Taylforth was assisted by a male pal as she headed to a waiting taxi. Last week fans praised EastEnders after they marked their momentous anniversary with an incredible week of episodes, which concluded with the tragic death of Sharon Watts' son Dennis. Gillian looked effortlessly chic in a classic white jacket and wide-legged black trousers as she headed out of the party with a male pal. While the star mainly seemed focused on her phone, she was later seen chatting to the friend before heading home in the early hours of Sunday morning. Gillian is one of EastEnders original cast members after playing Kathy Beale in the soap's first ever episode back in 1985, and after leaving the soap in 2000 made an epic return during the soap's 30th Anniversary in 2015. Shona ensured that she was dressed to impress in a beautiful black dress with a matching coat and studded platform heels as she headed out of the soap's birthday celebration. Her character Whitney Dean has also gone through her fair share of agony in recent days, after confessing to murdering her stalker Leo King during Friday's show. In a momentous scene Whitney shakily handed the policeman the knife before saying: 'I killed someone and he's on my kitchen floor,' setting the stage for yet more drama as fans wait to see whether she will end up behind bars for the crime.  Danielle - who plays Lola Pierce - also put on a leggy display in a tight black mini dress with long sleeves and peep-toe suede block heels as she left the party with her large handbag in tow. The blonde beauty was spotted puffing on a vape as she chatted to her co-star Zack Morris - who plays Keegan Barker - after the anniversary scenes were finally broadcast. Maisie Smith and Zack also appeared to be putting on a cosy display as they shared a taxi home following the party. The Tiffany Butcher star, 18, and Keegan Baker actor, 21, were spotted getting into a parked vehicle together outside the Town Hall, and at one point they appeared to be having a cosy chat as they waited for their vehicle.  Maisie looked stylish for the night in a pair of skintight leather-looking trousers teamed with a patterned top and cropped denim jacket, and finished her look with a pair of clear perspex platform heels and a Calvin Klein crossover handbag. Meanwhile Zack looked dapper in a pair of black skinny jeans, a dark T-shirt and a khaki green jacket. It comes after MailOnline revealed that the two stars have been growing close behind-the-scenes – and pals are convinced the pair will become a real life couple.   A TV source revealed to MailOnline: 'Maisie and Zack are very close off-screen, as well as being a married couple in EastEnders. They were the only cast members to share the same cab home together after the party on Saturday night.' 'They couldn't resist showing their affections for each other, with Maisie tickling the back of Zack's neck as they left the party' a second insider added.  'Romance blossomed as their characters grew closer, which only adds to their chemistry on-screen. They're adorable together and the rest of the cast think it's really sweet they've connected in this way.'  EastEnders celebrated its 35th birthday with a dramatic week of episodes that centred around a Thames boat party that took a disastrous turn. Viewers were left shocked as Sharon Mitchell's 13-year-old son Dennis died in an explosive twist - only for his mum to find out about his death moments after giving birth.  Dennis had been locked in a room on a boat that was flooding with water and despite Ian Beale's attempts to save him - after being the one to lock him in - Dennis was pronounced dead by paramedics.  Dennis had been among some of Albert Square's finest who were trapped on board the boat that got into difficulty. Ian had locked him into a room and attempted to release him by bashing the door in with a fire extinguisher.  Viewers watched on as both Dennis and Ian were pulled from the water unconscious. Paramedics were seen trying to resuscitate Dennis, but to no avail and pronounced him dead, with both Keanu Taylor and Phil Mitchell watching on.  Sharon was in hospital giving birth, as she'd gone into labour early after being held at gunpoint by Phil's son Ben Mitchell who was holding her hostage.  The camera then cut to Keanu visiting Sharon and his baby in the hospital, with Sharon quizzing him on the whereabouts of Dennis.  Unable to speak, Sharon persistently asked where her son is before eerily being heard screaming: 'Oh my baby.' She was later seen blaming Dennis' death on herself and soon turned on Keanu as she told the father of her newborn child she never wants to see him again.  The BBC soap will return on Monday as Sharon, played by Letitia Dean, returns to the Square, struggling to cope with Dennis' death.   The episode will see Ian and Kathy Beale, played by Adam Woodyatt and Gillian Taylforth, rally round the devastated mother as she mourns her loss while caring for her newborn baby. However, Ian will be wracked guilt and inner turmoil as he is torn over whether to reveal the truth behind Dennis's death to Sharon.  EastEnders returns on Monday at 8pm on BBC One.  
