{ By Connie Rusk For Mailonline   Published:  10:23, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7990573/Tyson-Furys-wife-Paris-reveals-heavyweight-boxer-true-romantic.html }
He was once labelled the baddest man on the planet due to his title as undisputed world heavyweight champion. But Tyson Fury's wife Paris has revealed the boxer, 31, is a true romantic at heart and has bought her a lollipop every Valentine's Day.  Paris began dating Tyson when she was 15 and he was 17. They met at their friends wedding and went on their first date to the cinema in 2005.  The couple reflect on their relationship in the new ITV series Tyson Fury: The Gypsy King, which begins on Thursday.   'In 2006 I'd just started going out with Paris and I won my first gold medal in a boxing tournament and I came back and gave it to Paris to keep for ever,' Tyson says, according to The Sun. 'She was like, "Oh my God, are you sure" and I was like, "Yes, I want you to have it. It's the most precious thing that I own".'  In the show, the couple delve into a memory box of love letters, jewellery and his medals. Paris shows her collection of lollipops- one given each year by Tyson on Valentine's Day and bat off son Prince Tyson II from trying to grab one. The couple are parents to Prince Adonis Amaziah, 11 months, Venezuela, nine, Prince John James, seven, Prince Tyson II, two, and Valencia Amber, one.  They also touch upon the dark period in his life in the documentary.  Fury previously revealed Paris told him he was 'too fat' to get back to the top of boxing after his binge drinking left him more than 140lbs — or 10 stone —overweight.   The former world heavyweight champion had been preparing for the third fight of his comeback, a blockbuster showdown against WBA king Deontay Wilder in Los Angeles on December 1. But after ballooning to over 400lbs (28-and-a-half stone) and struggling with cocaine, depression and alcohol after defeating Wladimir Klitschko in November 2015, a triumphant return to the ring seemed an impossibility – to wife Paris, at least.  Paris said: 'Tyson had ballooned to 29st. He was drinking heavily, he was doing things that even I didn’t know about and it was just getting worse and more out of hand.' The doting mother added they had 'everything anyone could ever dream of... money, fame, glory' but 'inside he was torn to shreds'.   In the programme, Tyson details how his depression spiraled out of control, so much so that he drove 190mph in his Ferrari towards a bridge but stopped because he 'heard a voice saying "don't do this, you're going to destroy your family's lives".' Tyson vowed to get his life back on track and in 2018, following more than two years of inactivity, Fury challenged for the WBC heavyweight title against Deontay Wilder. The fight was controversially scored as a draw, with many believing Fury won. The boxer's strong performance against Wilder (including recovering from a heavy knockdown in the final round) earned him Comeback of the Year from The Ring and numerous other awards. Now, Tyson says his 'happiness is dependent on his wife' and believes if he goes back to 'that low, low place' he won't be able to recover.  If you have been affected by this story, call The Samaritans at any time, from any phone for FREE, on 116 123.  Tyson Fury: The Gypsy King is on Thursday at 9pm on ITV.  
