{ By Milly Vincent and Sean O'grady For Mailonline   Published:  16:56, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8038609/Ewan-McGregor-cuts-dapper-figure-set-Ryan-Murphys-Netflix-series-Simply-Halston.html }
He is set to play America's first celebrity fashion designer in the upcoming limited series Simply Halston. And Ewan McGregor looked well and truly in character as he transcended the decades while filming scenes for the highly-anticipated show on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, New York on Monday. The actor, 48, cut a dapper figure as he performed in a scene set in 1961 outside the Bergdorf Goodman store in the city on Thursday, before opting for a 70's look as he acted out the life of Halston in the space of a week. Perfectly inhabiting the role of the celebrated designer in the 60s, Ewan sported a black suit jacket and trousers with a matching tie and a crisp, white shirt. Puffing on a cigarette, the film star also wore a grey plaid coat and a pair of dark sunglasses as he walked past a vintage New York taxi. The scene appeared to be briefly interrupted by a man passing by on a very modern looking citibike before Ewan was filmed leaving the luxury department store.   Blooming into the exuberant 70s later in the week Ewan wore pair of smart black slacks and a black jersey worn over a black shirt with an oversized wing tip collar as he continued to film scenes on Monday. Ewan will be portraying the show's eponymous star alongside Rory Culkin, 30, who is set to portray filmmaker Joel Schumacher in the series. The show follows Halston in various different stages of his life, from aspiring designer to fashion icon who attended A List events with Liza Minnelli. The Netflix series is based upon Steven Gaines book Simply Halston: The Untold Story which was published in 1993. Gaines said of the designer's wild sex life: 'Being trash was venerated. The trashier you could be, the more you could get laid, the more drugs you could take.' The author went on to detail how Studio 54 co-owner Steve Rubell would hand out quaaludes during Halston's wild parties in his lavish New York pad, and how the designer would host man-on-man orgies alongside his on-again-off-again partner Victor Hugo. However, Halston's life of excess soon took its toll, as he tested positive for AIDS in 1988 and tragically died in 1990, in San Francisco.  The riotous biography has been adapted for television by screenwriter Ryan Murphy who's previous works include Glee and American Horror Story. Ryan recently took to Instagram to share a first look teaser of the upcoming programme. In the video, Ewan transformed into Halston in various different stages of his life and sported multiple hairstyles. His character was surrounded by various model, muses and mannequins who were all modelling his designs. Ryan penned alongside the video: 'After a long 20 years of twists and turns, the limited series HALSTON starring the fantastic Ewan McGregor began production today. 'I am so proud of our director and leader Dan Minahan, and Christine Vachon of Killer Films. I am thrilled to be producing this great and meaningful show with them and Alexis Martin Woodall and Pamela Koffler. 'Cast list below. Ewan McGregor as HALSTON Rory Culkin as JOEL SHUMACHER Rebecca Dayan as ELSA PERETTI David Pittu as JOE EULA Krysta Rodriguez as LIZA MINNELLI Sullivan Jones as ED AUSTIN Gian Franco Rodriguez as VICTOR HUGO.' Halston, real name Roy Halston Frowick, enjoyed a meteoric rise to fame in the 70s as he became the designer of choice, and confidante, to some of the most famous women in Hollywood. The designer began his career in Chicago, and designed the pillbox hat that Jackie Kennedy wore during her husband's inauguration in 1960. Moving to New York in 1966, the designer made his first ready-to-wear line, which led to him becoming one of the country's most influential fashion designers. 
