{ By Kelsey Wilkie For Daily Mail Australia    Published:  04:47, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7988915/Sydney-parents-fear-autopsy-performed-wrong-body-morgue-finds-ghost-tattoos.html }
Grieving parents of a welder who mysteriously died alone in a car fear the autopsy may have been performed on the wrong body after finding a number of errors in the report.  Bronson Pont is believed to have died of a drug overdose in his car in Sydney's Lane Cove in 2018.  However, his parents Michael and Michelle Pont claim there were inconsistencies in the police investigation.  They had hoped the autopsy would shed light on their son's mysterious death, but claim they have been left with more questions than answers. Bronson's autopsy report identified two faded tattoos on his left hand and shin, which his parents claim he never had. They are now concerned the morgue may have given them the wrong ashes. 'I had the most horrendous nightmares of my son chopped up on the table and people not knowing what body part was what,' Ms Pont told the Sydney Morning Herald.  'It was almost as bad as the day he died.' An experienced forensic pathologist concluded Bronson died from methadone and methamphetamine overdose.  However, a syringe was never found. His car keys were also missing. His car and clothes were stained in blood and he had a scratch on his neck, which police suggested was an injection point.  The idea that Bronson injected himself in the left of his neck was ridiculous, Ms Pont said. She said he had never injected his neck before and was left-hand dominant.  Both Mr and Ms Pont fear their son's death may have been more sinister.  And while police believe Bronson's death was not suspicious, the Pont's were relying on information from the autopsy to give them peace of mind - but instead it gave them more doubts.  The report correctly identified Bronson's three tattoos, which were of stars, a spider web and a dragon. However, it also noted the two faded tattoos. An internal and external review were then ordered by the Department of Forensic Medicine and the coroner's office. Professor Johan Duflou, a former director of the Department of Forensic Medicine, performed the external review and found a 'number of errors'. One of which was the faded tattoos, which he was unable to find. His conclusion was that Bronson's cause of death was 'likely' a drug overdose.  However, his report said it was also 'highly likely' drugs had not played a role due to the toxicology report.  Following his report, the Pont's demanded answers.  In a letter to the couple, Deputy State Coroner Magistrate Elizabeth Ryan wrote that some of the circumstances surrounding their son's death cannot be explained. Magistrate Ryan went on to say satisfied that inflicted violence did not cause or contribute to Bronson's death.   A police spokesman told Daily Mail Australia that 'following an investigation by detectives at North Shore Police Area Command, the matter was referred to – and investigated by – the NSW State Coroner'.  'An inquest has been dispensed with and the matter has been finalised. A post mortem determined the man died as a result of drug toxicity.'     
