drugs
{ By Joshua Fox For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  21:55, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7988537/Married-Sight-Natasha-Spencer-urges-fans-kind-worrying-post.html }
Married At First Sight's Natasha Spencer has urged people to 'be kind' to the 2020 cast, as several of them face backlash from viewers. The 26-year-old financial analyst shared a heartfelt Facebook post on Monday calling out trolls, while also alluding to reality stars who have committed suicide in the past. 'Stop slamming me and my castmates, you're doing psychological damage. If you want me to post suicide articles from reality shows, I'm available,' she wrote.   Natasha claimed she has received cruel comments over her physical transformation, after undergoing several cosmetic procedures in recent years.  'I had a chubby period, grew into my genes, lost some puppy fat and trained. Then I lost my puppy fat and got bullied for having no t*ts and bad teeth,' she wrote. 'No one's ever happy with how you look! But guess what - I am happy!'  Natasha, who is paired with Mikey Pembroke on MAFS, added that the trolling has led to a truce among the cast as they support each other.  She concluded by reminding people to 'please be kind'.  Married At First Sight participants have access to 24/7 support from Channel Nine and production company Endemol Shine Australia.  In October, Daily Mail Australia reported that Nine had set up a 'dedicated helpline offering psychological support' for cast members past and present. Last year, The Sun on Sunday revealed that 38 reality stars are believed to have taken their lives since 1986, including two Love Island UK contestants.  In December, Micah Downey, the Californian star of Channel Seven's Bride and Prejudice, died suddenly at the age of 26. He is believed to have died after taking a 'mixture of illegal and prescription drugs', which he was using to treat his 'anxiety and depression'.  Channel Nine declined to comment. If you're struggling, contact Lifeline on 13 11 14 or Beyond Blue on 1300 22 4636    
