{ By Adry Torres For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:45, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7987521/Drug-gang-leader-released-prison-judge-rearrested-seconds-walking-free.html }
A Mexico City gang leader was rearrested Saturday just moments after a federal judge ordered his prison release. Óscar 'El Lunares' Flores, presumed leader of the notorious La Unión de Tepito street gang, was walking out of prison when he was met by a unit of Mexico City cops at 4:30pm local time.  Flores had been freed from prison when a judge ruled he had been illegally detained last month. But a police officer was waiting at the gates and Flores was read his rights and presented with outstanding arrest warrant issued in November outside the Altiplano detention center in Almoloya de Juárez, a municipality in the State of Mexico. The jail is the same one that Joaquín 'El Chapo' Guzmán escaped from through an underground tunnel in July 2015.  'Do I have to sign it now? Why miss? Can't I wait for my lawyer,' a shocked Flores asked the cop before he was taken away. El Lunares was wanted for the September kidnapping of a local businessman, who said he was held for over eight hours at a safe house where he was tortured and beaten. El Lunares and his henchmen allegedly demanded 10,000 Mexican pesos, or $530, for the businessman's freedom in exchange for not murdering him.  They reportedly requested the same amount each of the following months 'so that nothing else would happen to him.' El Lunares gained his freedom momentarily early Saturday morning at the end of a 12-hour court session. His attorney presented a video that showed he was detained by Mexican Marines at his home, however the police report that was presented by prosecutors said that Flores was captured by the Mexico City police. The apprehension took place January 31 in Tolcayuca, a municipality in the central state of Hidalgo.  The judge's ruling also set free Hugo Armando Flores and Erick Estrada, who were arrested with El Lunares.  The judge found that Flores was not driving a Mazda SUV with Estrada and El Lunares on board, as stated on the police report. She also said that declarations brought forth by the cops who signed the police report and allegedly made the arrest had no validity. On Sunday, morning El Lunares appeared before a Mexico City Superior Court judge via a video conference hearing and learned that the kidnapping charges levied by the Public Ministry were sufficient to keep him behind bars without bail. El Lunares' defense argued that the arrest warrant did not justify his imprisonment. He is being held that the Reclusorio Norte jail in Mexico City and is due back in court Friday.  El Lunares has proven to be an elusive figure for authorities seeking his arrest.   
