{ By Associated Press and Snejana Farberov For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:07, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7988311/Son-mom-accused-arranging-witness-deaths-enters-plea.html }
A St. Louis man has pleaded guilty to killing a 16-year-old boy in a crime that prosecutors alleged the suspect's mother then tried to cover up by having two potentially witnesses assassinated.  Tyrell Davidson, 23, was sentenced on Friday to 12 years in prison after pleading guilty to second-degree murder and armed criminal action in the September 2013 killing of Chauncey Brown outside a youth club as part of a long-standing feud. Prosecutors dismissed eight other counts against Davidson, including first-degree murder and witness tampering, as part of his plea agreement.  Davidson was 16 at the time of Brown's killing but was tried as an adult, reported St Louis Post-Dispatch.  Within seven months of the teen's death, potential witnesses James Moore and Noah Barnes - both 16 - were fatally shot.  In October 2013, Moore was chased from a bus stop into a nearby park, where his body was later found in a baseball field.  After Moore's death, Davidson's mother, Latashia Mopkins, somehow got a hold of a police report that included the names of other potential witnesses — a report that shouldn't have been publicly available, prosecutors said in 2016.  It was through that report that she learned that 16-year-old Noah Barnes, who was with Davidson in the car during the attack on Brown, was a potential witness, said Beth Orwick, chief trial assistant to Circuit Attorney Jennifer Joyce. 'We believe she used that report to confirm that he was a snitch, that he was talking to police,' Orwick said. In April 2014, Barnes was sitting in a vehicle with Davidson when he was fatally shot. His bullet-riddled body was later discovered on Clara Avenue.   Prosecutors alleged Latashia Mopkins arranged both killings with her brother Cortez McClinton, nephew Frederick Mopkins and a third man, Travon Knighten.    But murder charges against the four were dismissed in September 2018 after a St. Louis detective's brain cancer diagnosis left him unable to testify about a forensic evaluation of cellphones. The detective later died. Chris Nuelle, a spokeswoman for the Missouri Attorney General's Office, which handled the prosecutions, told The Associated Press on Monday that the decision about whether to refile charges against the four remains under review. Latashia has no criminal record.  Knighten, McClinton, and Frederick Mopkins have previous felony convictions for drugs and theft.  McClinton also was convicted of second-degree murder, kidnapping and other crimes earlier this year in an unrelated case, and sentenced to 36 years in prison.  
