drugs
{ By Deirdre Simonds For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:48, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7987901/Justin-Bieber-looks-carefree-enjoys-late-night-hockey-scrimmage-friends-Central-Park.html }
Just days ahead of his first album in five years dropping, Justin Bieber took some time to enjoy a late-night hockey scrimmage with friends at Central Park's Wollman Rink.  Hitting the ice is one of the 25-year-old Canadian superstar's favorite ways to unwind. The hitmaker appeared in high spirits as he glided around effortlessly after renting out the rink in New York City on Sunday night.  Meanwhile, his wife Hailey Bieber was seen on the opposite coast at the Vanity Fair Oscar party in Beverly Hills.  Despite an early flight to London on Monday, the Sorry singer packed in time on his skates after performing his two latest tracks Yummy and Intentions on Saturday Night Live over the weekend.  While hitting pucks, Bieber could be seen without a helmet flaunting his platinum blonde hair as he raced around in a white jersey, bright orange pants and a matching hoodie underneath.  He has yet to shave his mustache, which he knows fans have been asking him to part with for months.    The next day the star was seen in a black hoodie and pants with a pink cap and oversized glasses as he arrived at a recording studio alone. After revealing he suffers from a series of health issues from 'chronic mono' to Lyme disease, the singer looked in a state of peace as he laid on the ice with his arms spread out and a massive smile across his face.  Bieber started opening up about his health scares in his new documentary, a 10-part YouTube series, released late last month and shared his challenges with addiction and how he started to use drugs in his teens.  In January he wrote: 'While a lot of people kept saying Justin Bieber looks like sh*t, on meth etc. they failed to realize I've been recently diagnosed with Lyme disease, not only that but had a serious case of chronic mono which affected my, skin, brain function, energy, and overall health.' The talented performer has been actively promoting his upcoming album Changes, which drops on February 14.  After his SNL appearance on Saturday, Bieber took to the streets of NY with handwritten cardboard signs featuring a reminder of his release date and jokingly refusing to shave his facial hair on Sunday.  This morning he encouraged fans to watch the seventh part of his documentary on his Instagram Story and hopes it gives other inspiration and comfort to others struggling with his same health plights.  The singer admitted on his documentary that he first tried marijuana when he was just 13, after rocketing to fame as a child when he was discovered on YouTube.  After becoming dependent on weed, Justin began to drink lean - a narcotic substance often called purple drank or sizzurp - as well as taking pills, doing Molly, and trying mushrooms. He has since become sober after feeling like he was 'dying' and things got 'crazy scary.' He added: 'I basically said to myself, 'God, if you are real, you get me through this season of stopping these pills and stuff, and if you do, I'll do the rest of the work.' I never did the actual work. I got off the pills but never went to the root of everything so I just circled back around which most people do.' 
