{ By James Tapsfield, Political Editor For Mailonline   Published:  16:33, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7987737/Ministers-insist-deportation-flight-foreign-offenders-ahead-tomorrow.html }
Ministers sounded defiance today as MPs demanded the cancellation of a deportation flight for foreign offenders.  Home Secretary Priti Patel dismissed the calls from Labour despite accusations that the government has not learned the lessons of the Windrush scandal. She insisted everyone being deported to Jamaica at 6.30am tomorrow had committed a 'serious offence' and been sentenced to at least a year in jail. In total, their terms - some for crimes such as rape and manslaughter - add up to around 300 years. Duncan Lewis Solicitors, which is representing 15 people due to be on the plane, has launched a last ditch legal bid to stop it taking off. In the Commons this afternoon, shadow home secretary Diane Abbott branded the proposed deportations 'double jeopardy' as she said more than 170 MPs had written to the PM. She said many of those being removed came to the UK as children and 'have no memory of Jamaica', adding: 'Does the Home Secretary accept that these deportations constitute double jeopardy because the persons have already served an appropriate sentence for their crime. 'And is the Home Secretary aware that over 170 MPs from all political parties have written to the Prime Minister calling for this deportation flight to be halted.' But Ms Patel said: 'Under the UK Borders Act 2007, a deportation order must be made in respect of foreign criminal activity sentences for a period of 12 months or more in prison. 'And therefore every person on this flight has been convicted of a serious offence and received a custodial sentence of 12 months or more which means that under the Act introduced by the Labour government in 2007, a deportation order must be made.' Asking an urgent question in the House, Labour MP David Lammy asked 'when will black lives matter again?'  But Home Office minister Kevin Foster responded: 'We cannot breach the Act and we will not allow foreign nationals who are convicted of the most serious offences including rape and child sexual abuse to remain in Britain.  'Tomorrow's flight is about keeping the public safe. It cannot and should not be conflated with the wrongs suffered by the Windrush generation.'  Earlier, Chief Secretary to the Treasury Rishi Sunak said those being forcibly removed had committed 'very serious offences' and their deportations were 'reasonable'. The legal challenge calls for the flight to be halted over concerns that detainees are struggling to access legal advice and over the claims made over the criminality of those due to be on board. Toufique Hossain, director of public law at Duncan Lewis - who is leading the legal challenge, said many of the clients had come to the UK as young children aged between four and 13. A number of the people due on the flight are thought to have been convicted of drug offences when they were young. Mr Hossain said: 'We are about to submit court papers to launch a judicial review and have asked for an urgent oral hearing in the High Court this afternoon.' He said many of the people on the flight have lived in the UK 'for most of their lives' and there needs to be a 'proper overview and consideration' given to how the Home Office approach such individuals. Mr Sunak said he believed the flight is 'right' and the British public would expect foreign national offenders to be deported. 'Many of these people have committed crimes such as manslaughter, rape, other very serious offences,' the Tory told Sky News. Tajay Thompson is one of those facing deportation to Jamaica having served half of a 15-month sentence in 2015 after being convicted of possessing class A drugs with intent to supply at 17. Now 23 and living in south London, he told reporters he has no links to the Caribbean nation which he has only visited twice since coming to the UK aged five. 'I feel like I was born here. Jamaica is not my country,' Mr Thompson said as he insisted he was groomed into a gang as a teenager. 'It's not like I'm a rapist or a murderer, I've made a mistake when I was 17 and it's now going to affect my whole life.'    
