{ By Leigh Mcmanus For Mailonline   Published:  13:09, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7987031/Police-complain-residents-upmarket-town-not-reporting-drugs-crimes-house-prices-fears.html }
Residents in a well-heeled market town aren't reporting drugs crimes to the police - because they are worried it could lower house prices. Melbourne, in South Derbyshire, has previously been voted one of the best places to live in the UK, and the average home sells for more than £300,000. The town - birthplace of travel pioneer Thomas Cook - boasts an attractive Georgian marketplace surrounded by bistros, boutiques and art galleries. But some among the 5,000 locals fear property values will drop if the area gains a reputation for illicit substance abuse, it is claimed. The matter was raised during a community forum meeting on Thursday, where police and councillors spoke to the public. Sergeant Matt Ladd, of Derbyshire Police, told the gathering: 'The other day we had someone call the police and say that they don't want to call in drug incidents because they think it will make house prices drop. 'That is completely unacceptable and is not true at all - there is no basis on fact.' Sgt Ladd added drugs were a problem in Melbourne - but insisted locals shouldn't be concerned. He added: 'Drug crimes are typically a victim-less offence in these cases. Someone is caught with drugs on them and they are dealt with accordingly. 'None of this should alarm you, but recording more incidents is positive, it sends a message that we are out there and we will stop these people.' Derbyshire County Councillor Linda Chilton also spoke at the meeting. The Conservative member for Melbourne said: 'Some people are afraid of comeback. 'We do have a drug problem here but I can't force people to come to the police directly.' People living in the town, which hosts one of Britain's top arts and crafts festivals each September, said they believed homeowners had avoided reporting crimes to the police for several years. Writing on a Melbourne community Facebook group, Simon Slack said: 'Lightning suspicion by the police if they've only just worked that one out. Obviously the last 15 years went by unnoticed.' Georgie Tomlinson posted: 'It's long been my suspicion that there are more drugs going on in Melbourne that anyone will admit so it doesn't surprise me!' And Richard Smith added: 'While not exactly a crime hotspot, I definitely know some people here who would turn a blind eye to criminal activity if they thought it would give the town a bad rep.' 'Melbourne is a lovely place to live, but it does have its share of Hyacinth Bucket types, and this kind of attitude does nobody any good in the long run. It is no good burying your head in the sand.' Others jokingly compared the situation to Hot Fuzz, the 2007 black comedy starring Nick Pegg and Simon Frost, in which members of a Neighbourhood Watch Association kill off undesirable residents in order to win a Village of the Year competition. Melbourne, around eight miles south of Derby, was first recorded in the Domesday Book in 1086 as 'Mileburne', a royal manor. The town's church, known locally as a 'cathedral in miniature', dates back to 1120, and in 1891 Thomas Cook, having made his fortune, built a row of cottages on its High Street for the poor that still exist today. In a further claim to fame, Melbourne's better-known namesake in Australia takes its title from the town. In 2013, it was ranked as the 15th best town in the UK to live by the Sunday Times, while South Derbyshire, in which Melbourne is situated, came 12th in the annual Halifax Quality of Life survey last week.   
