{ By James Mills for MailOnline   Published:  10:54, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7986593/Doctor-acquitted-death-3-Doors-guitarist-accused-unprofessional-conduct.html }
The Alabama doctor acquitted of prescribing the drugs that killed 3 Doors Down guitarist Matt Roberts is facing professional misconduct allegations that 'led to the death of a patient'. Dr Richard Snellgrove is facing seven serious allegations brought by the Alabama State Board of Medical Examiners which could see him stripped of his license to practice medicine. The accusations - which are not criminal charges - relate to his conduct between 2006 and 2016 - the year Roberts was found dead of an overdose in a hotel in West Bend, Wisconsin. One of the charges relates to 'unprofessional conduct that resulted in the death of Patient 1', although it's not clear if this patient was Roberts, according to TMZ. The other allegations include prescribing controlled substances without a legitimate medical purpose, unprofessional conduct, conduct detrimental or harmful to patients, exposing patients to unreasonable risk or harm, and gross/repeated malpractice.  Roberts was a founding member of 3 Doors Down when the rock group began in 1996 on the Mississippi Gulf Coast. He co-authored the band's hit song 'Kryptonite,' which in 2001 was nominated for a Grammy award for best rock song.  Roberts, who was 38 when he died, left the band after its 2012 European tour, checking into rehab the same year.  Snellgrove had been treating Roberts for several years and was accused of 13 counts of unlawful distribution of drugs and health care fraud in relation to his death. Prosecutors said Snellgrove prescribed drugs to Roberts even though he knew the guitarist struggled with addiction, but he was cleared by a jury in May 2018. Snellgrove's lawyer, Dennis Knizley, said during his trial that the physician's actions were reasonable and prosecutors targeted the physician because Roberts was famous. Knizley said text messages introduced by the defense at trial showed that Roberts was seeking illegal street drugs in addition to medications he got from Snellgrove.  The defense argued that alone showed Roberts' death couldn't be hung on Snellgrove. 'He was obtaining and abusing street drugs at the same time he was obtaining drugs and to a certain degree deceiving Dr. Snellgrove,' Knizley said. Snellgrove has already voluntarily surrendered his controlled substances certification while the board conducts its investigation. The Medical Licensing Commission of Alabama has the power to revoke Snellgrove's medical license if it agrees with the board's findings.  The doctor is also still facing a wrongful death lawsuit filed by Roberts's family.     
