drugs
{ By Louise Ayling For Daily Mail Australia and Australian Associated Press   Published:  00:00, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7983189/Wedding-DJ-1000-MDMA-caps-hidden-inside-condoms-underpants-arrested-Sydney-music-festival.html }
A private school graduate has been arrested after police allegedly found more than 1000 MDMA capsules hidden in his underwear at a Sydney music festival.  Andrew Huhao, 19, was arrested after a drug dog reacted to him at the Transmission Music Festival at Sydney Olympic Park on Saturday.  He was one of six people charged with drug supply by New South Wales police at the festival.  The University of Sydney student is an aspiring architect and works part time as a wedding DJ, according to the Daily Telegraph.    Police allege the MDMA capsules were packaged in condoms and hidden in Huahao's pants and underwear. LSD tabs and a credit card knife were allegedly found in his wallet. Huhao appeared at Parramatta Bail Court via videolink on Sunday while his family sobbed in the gallery.  The teenager was charged with supplying a commercial quantity of a prohibited drug, possessing a prohibited drug and having a knife in a public place. Magistrate Les Brennan was urged by the prosecution to refuse bail because the quantity of drugs allegedly implied he was going to supply them to others. 'The prosecutor asks that I refuse bail taking into account the fact the court and community is aware young people are dying at these music festivals because they're taking drugs,' Magistrate Les Brennan said.  'They're not only dying at festivals but throughout our community and a thousand and five capsules could have brought about one or more deaths – or none.'   The man will return to Burwood Local Court on February 18. Meanwhile another 19-year-old man was allegedly found with 287 MDMA capsules in a vacuum-sealed package hidden in his underwear along with $100 cash. He was charged with the same two drug offences and dealing with property proceeds of crime.  A 31-year-old man was also allegedly found with 195 MDMA capsules and $790 cash.  A total of 32 people were processed for drug possession.  
