drugs
{ By Isabella Nikolic For Mailonline   Published:  20:45, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7984439/UK-Government-sells-millions-NHS-patients-medical-data-drugs-giants.html }
The Department of Health and Social Care has sold medical data of millions of NHS patients to American drugs companies after falsely saying the information would be anonymous, experts have claimed.  NHS figures claim that patient data which is sold for huge amounts of money for research can be linked back to individual medical records via GP surgeries.  The officials have told the Observer there is evidence that it is already being done by certain companies who have found individuals that have medical histories of particular interest.   NHS officials have voiced their concerns because they believe the public is being misled even though the DHSC has insisted it only sells information after ensuring complete anonymity of patients.  The Observer revealed the government raised £10million in 2018 by giving licences to organisations across the world that wanted access to the supposedly anonymous data.  If a patient doesn't want their data used for research, they must actively 'opt out' of the system.  Because NHS data is one of the largest organisations of its kind, its data is highly sought after.  Washington is already after unrestricted access to the UK's 55million health records, which are estimated to have a value of £10billion a year.  Getting as much UK medical data is a top priority for the US drugs industry, according to leaked details of meetings between trade officials from the two countries.   The DHSC is under an increasing amount of pressure to tighten controls to protect patient privacy.  When asked by the Observer whether it was right to say that patient data was anonymous, Professor Eerke Boiten, director of the Cyber Technology Institute at De Montfort University in Leicester, said: 'The answer is no, it is not anonymous.  'If it is rich medical data about individuals then the richer that data is, the easier it is for people who are experts to reconstruct it and re-identify individuals.'  Mr Boiten believes that more thought should be put into controlling the sale of data to stop it being sold on to companies with huge information stores.  He added: 'If Google, for instance, were to use this data and end up finding a cure for cancer, and then sold it back to the NHS for huge sums of money, then I think we could say we had missed a trick.' A coordinator of a company called medConfidential, which campaigns for health data privacy, said the public was being betrayed.  Phil Booth said: 'The unique combination of medical events that makes individuals’ health data so ripe for exploitation is precisely what makes it so identifiable. Your medical record is like a fingerprint of your whole life.' He argued that patients have a right to know who is using their data and in what way.  Until December, the Clinical Practice Research Datalink claimed on its website that data made available for research was anonymous. After the Observer's investigation, the wording was changed to say that data had been 'anonymised' - meaning that only some measures had been taken to unidentify it, Mr Booth added: 'The law now recognises that one of the most common methods of ‘anonymisation’ – the use of pseudonyms to obscure some bits of information – means that data is still identifiable.  'Indeed, the information commissioner herself says it must be considered personal data.' The Boston Collaborative Drug Surveillance Program in the US, which uses DHSC data, says on its website: 'Anonymized information from the CPRD on demographics, outpatient visits, hospitalizations and prescriptions dispensed is available to [our] researchers.  'Validation of diagnoses, reports of diagnostic tests and anonymized notes from hospitalizations and referrals can be obtained from the general practitioner upon request.' This suggests that the data isn't truly anonymous because it should be impossible to get an individual patient's medical notes. 
