{ By Jack Elsom For Mailonline   Published:  16:03, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7983983/Jamaican-father-facing-deportation-treated-tried-kill-Queen.html }
A Jamaican father who came to the UK as a child is 'terrified' about his imminent deportation which will wrench him apart from his wife and six-month-old daughter. Reshawn Davis, 30, who was convicted of robbery a decade ago, will be flown back to the Caribbean island nation on Tuesday as part of a government drive to expel foreign offenders.  The man, until recently living in northwest London, has not committed any crime since serving his two-month prison sentence, but says he has been treated as if he 'tried to kill the Queen'. He is one of 50 immigrants due to be deported on the Home Office-charted flight to Jamaica - a country which Mr Davis has not been to since he uprooted age 11. Speaking of his fret from Colnbrook removal centre in Middlesex, Mr Davis told the Independent: 'I'm terrified to go to Jamaica. My cousin was deported and he has now died.  'People will be hostile to me because I've been deported. I'm going to be targeted.' Mr Davis's wife, Tonique Kerr, 27, said her husband's deportation will force her to depend on benefits, as she will not be able to continue working as a complaints handler at an energy company in order to care for her newborn. In an emotional plea for her family to remain welded together, Ms Kerr, who 'never imagined being a single mum', said: 'A child needs their dad. I don't know what's going to happen now.' Although he is petrified for his own safety, Ms Kerr and his daughter are at the forefront of Mr Davis's concerns as he awaits deportation. Since his child's birth, the loving father said he has not spent a night away and is longing to be reunited with his family. He said: 'I still reach for her when I wake up. I'm not one of those to leave my wife to do it by herself. I want to be there for them both.' Yet despite claiming deep affection for his family - and Ms Kerr hailing him a 'great Dad' - Mr Davis's appeal was thrown out on Friday on the basis he did not have a 'genuine and subsisting' relationship. A Home Office spokesperson said: 'The planned charter flight to Jamaica is specifically for removing foreign criminals.  'Those detained for removal include people convicted of manslaughter, rape, violent crime and dealing class A drugs.' Justice Secretary Robert Buckland was confronted over mounting public upset over the Jamaican deportation. Speaking on the Andrew Marr Show this morning, he defended the government and said: 'We've always said there is a distinction to be drawn between people who have made their lives here… and people who commit offences. 'The removal of foreign national offenders is something I think the public support.' He added: 'I think what we are doing is proportionate and measured… It's not about discriminating between a particular group. 'What we are looking at is a cohort of foreign national offenders. Whatever their ethnicity and background, we have to take action. The British public would expect no less.' A report into last year's Windrush scandal which leaked this week recommended only foreign nationals convicted of serious crimes should be expelled. Last year 5,322 foreign born offenders were deported from the UK and returned to the country of their birth after committing crimes in Britain. Some 3,633 were from the EU and 1,689 were from the rest of the world. 
