{ By Alana Mazzoni For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  14:58, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7983905/Playboy-pub-baron-attacked-ex-girlfriend-sex-tape-another.html }
A millionaire pub baron who attacked his then-girlfriend after she found a sex tape of him and another woman has avoided punishment for breaching his parole conditions thanks to a Corrective Services bungle. Phillip De Angelis, 39, the nephew of publican Arthur Laundy, pleaded guilty to five counts of domestic violence against socialite Nellie Tilley, 53, in 2015 and 2016.  De Angelis promised the judge he would give up alcohol and drugs for two years. In March last year, De Angelis was placed on an intensive corrections order and was to undergo testing of illicit substances and alcohol. But in mid-December last year he was caught drink-driving in Sydney's Surry Hills while using his phone. Despite the obvious breach of his intensive corrections order, Corrective Services didn't notify the State Parole Board until January 31.  The blunder was only brought to the Board's attention when The Daily Telegraph asked why De Angelis had gotten away with the breach.  'While Corrections policy required that a breach report be submitted soon after the offence, this did not occur, and the staff involved have been counselled to ensure this does not happen again,' a spokeswoman said on Sunday. 'Otherwise, the offender's supervision was strictly in accordance with policy.  'Corrective Services NSW on Friday 31 January lodged a breach report with the State Parole Authority after a 39-year-old offender failed to comply with the conditions of his Intensive Corrections Order.'  De Angelis could have potentially gone to jail as punishment for breaching the conditions of an intensive corrections order.   His drink driving incident in December, when he recorded a reading of .086, is the third time he has been caught drunk behind the wheel.  The courts let him off with a slap on the wrist in 2013 after he was charged with supplying cocaine of a small indictable quantity. His conditions for being let off without a conviction were that he not use drugs and go to rehab. De Angelis avoided jail time and was sentenced to 18 months' home detention for his attacks on Ms Tilley. But he appealed the magistrate's decision, and was only ordered to perform just one day of community service per week. He was also required to refrain from using drugs and alcohol until September 2020. The De Angelis family own hotels across Sydney, while their relatives the Laundy family - who include Bachelorette winner Stu Laundy - are among the country's richest pub barons.  Community Corrections said the baron should be allowed to stay a free man and instead have the matter dealt with after he is sentenced in March for the drink driving and using his phone while driving charges. The matter will come before the parole authority on Monday. During his 2018 trial, it was revealed during an argument Ms Tilley uncovered a sex tape of DeAngelis and another woman.  In that incident, after dinner at a restaurant in the exclusive suburb of Double Bay, De Angelis accused Ms Tilley of being unfaithful before asking to see her text messages.  After denying her boyfriend's request, according to the court documents the socialite 'became suspicious' and in return took his phone, before locking herself in the bathroom and scanning through it. According to the court documents, while looking through De Angelis' phone she saw a homemade sex tape showing him having sex with a different woman. Hearing the sound of the video playing from the bathroom, the court heard that De Angelis pleaded with Ms Tilley to stop watching - before smashing down the door, entering the room and grabbing the phone out of her hand, forcefully pushing her in the process.  
