{ By Alana Mazzoni For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  09:38, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7983373/Inside-lavish-30th-birthday-Josh-Reynoldss-ex-girlfriend-Arabella-del-Bussos.html }
The ex girlfriend of NRL star Josh Reynolds, who is accused of faking miscarriages and cancer, threw herself a lavish 30th birthday party amid the deepening saga. The Wests Tigers star, who appeared in the Sutherland Local Court on Friday for a domestic assault charge, claims his model ex conned him out of thousands of dollars and tricked him into thinking she miscarried their unborn twins. Arabella del Bussos, whose real name is Donna Preusker, accused Reynolds of assaulting her, allegedly leaving her with bruised arms and legs during an incident which was partly filmed in September, allegations which he denies.  Amid the controversy and ongoing court battle, Ms del Bussos spared no expense for her birthday celebrations in Melbourne on Saturday night. The glamour model invited guests to her party, which was held at the exclusive Rialto Towers.  'Please join me in celebrating a birthday to remember,' she wrote on Instagram. 'Look forward to seeing you all in celebrating my 30th. Dress code is cocktail attire. Bella x.'  Ms del Bussos's guests filmed the night and posted it to their social media accounts, showing the view from the sky scraper and a live band for entertainment. The former football WAG had an elaborate balloon arch, a designer birthday cake and a personalised marble sign. The celebration came as The Sydney Morning Herald revealed Ms del Bussos allegedly 'catfished' Reynolds and posed as her 'aunty Vi' to swindle money from the NRL star. 'Vi' reached out to Reynolds to ask for a loan after spending all her money on the funeral for Ms del Bussos's mother - who never died. Reynolds believed the alleged scam and sent $2,400 to who he thought was his girlfriend's aunty. Not long after, Reynolds also allegedly sent Ms del Bussos $1,500 at her request.  The Wests Tigers playmaker became suspicious when Ms del Bussos said she would be paying back Aunty Vi's loan herself. Reynolds' legal team allege they have evidence to show that Aunty Vi's bank account details were details of an account held by Ms del Busso. The explosive new details come as Ms del Busso's friends claimed she begged them for money to help get over the heartbreak of her 'miscarriages' and fake death of her mother.   A text message allegedly sent by Ms del Busso's relative has emerged, urging friends to make a 'small contribution' towards a pamper day of beauty treatments to help to 'take her mind off things'. 'To Bella's beloved friends, it's her [relative] here as we all know bella is going through quite a tough time at the moment, since loosing (sic) her father at a young age, loosing (sic) a set of twins and now the loss of her mum … lets just say it's not easy for her at the ­moment!' one text message obtained by the Daily Telegraph says. 'The pain she is enduring is just heart breaking, as we know bella is forever thinking about everyone else and is very giving so I thought well let's try and take her mind of (sic) things, give back to her and let her have a pamper day (facial, massage, pedicure, manicure). Ms del Busso's mum Isobel Preusker is in fact still alive and broke her silence earlier this week, telling Nine News her daughter 'needs to be stopped.' The texts were reportedly sent three weeks before Ms del Busso claims Reynolds allegedly assaulted her, leaving her with bruised arms and legs during an incident which was partly filmed in September and recently went viral online.  Reynolds has denied the assault allegations and will allege in court Ms del Busso doctored photos of herself to make him believe she was expecting. His legal team is gathering evidence to support those claims, including a statement from a witness who alleges Ms del Busso asked her to help inject fertility drugs so she appeared pregnant, to which the witness declined.   
