{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  05:59, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7983015/Renae-Lawrence-begs-remaining-Bali-Nine-prisoners-released-jail-Indonesia.html }
Convicted drug trafficker Renae Lawrence has pleaded for the remaining five Bali Nine prisoners to have their sentences reduced, coinciding with an official visit to Australia by Indonesian President Joko Widodo. Ms Lawrence, who was released in 2018, told reporters in Canberra on Sunday, that if their sentences could not be reduced, she was asking that a prisoner exchange with Australia be considered. 'These humane actions will in some small part bring our nations closer together,' she said in her first public comments since her release. In April 2005, Ms Lawrence was caught with eight others trying to smuggle 8.3kg of heroin out of Indonesia to Australia. Ringleaders Andrew Chan and Myuran Sukumaran were executed in 2015. Si Yi Chen, Michael Czugaj, Tan Duc Thanh Nguyen, Matthew Norman, Scott Rush, and Martin Stephens were sentenced to life imprisonment, and Ms Lawrence to an original 20-year sentence.  Tan Duc Thanh Nguyen died of cancer in an Indonesian hospital in 2018.  She concedes it would be very hard for President Widodo to meet her demands given many people in Indonesia are against it. But she said the president can give 'them a second chance, like the same I got'. 'It is a big ask but I think its time we sort of helped them,' she said.  She said it was like a death sentence for the remaining five.  'We all did something stupid, we all regret it, but everybody deserves a second chance,' she said, 'If this doesn't happen, they have got no hope, they'll lose hope and the end will be devastating.' She said if she could meet Mr Widodo during his visit she would say 'sorry'. She thinks Prime Minister Scott Morrison should push to get something done and believes there is a good opportunity to have talks about it. Mr Widodo landed in Canberra on Saturday night ahead of the signing of a free-trade agreement with Australia on Monday, when he will also address parliament.  Andrew Chan, 31, and Myuran Sukumaran, 34 - were executed by firing squad on the Indonesian prison island of Nusa Kambangan on April 29, 2015. Tan Duc Thanh was initially given life but was then sentenced to death following an appeal. He died of cancer while in jail in 2018.  Five others are serving life in jail: Scott Rush, 34  Rush's parents were the ones to tip of the Australian Federal Police stating they hoped it would stop their son from becoming a drug mule.  Following his arrest he was sentenced to life in prison and upon appeal was slapped with the death penalty. He is applying to have his sentence reduced. Martin Stephens, 44 Stephens was also sentenced to life after being caught attempting to smuggle drugs into Bali.  He attempted to have his sentence lessened to 10 years in 2011 but it was rejected. He also met his wife Christine Winarni Puspayanti in 2011 who was visiting the prison as part of a church group. The pair married in a traditional Indonesian ceremony. Si Yi Chen, 34 Chen was sentenced to life in prison but was given the death sentence following an appeal.  He appealed again after a full confession which then reinstated his life sentence.  Chen was running a silversmith workshop while in jail.  Michael Czugaj, 34 Czugaj is one of the youngest members of the group and is serving life in Madiun, East Java.  The former surfing-made apprentice tradesman hopes to be transferred back to a Bali jail.   Matthew Norman, 33 The youngest member of the Bali Nine, Norman was sentenced to life but was then sentenced to death. Following an appeal and full confession, his sentence was reinstated back to life. 
