drugs
{ By Kylie Stevens and Zoe Zaczek and Daniel Piotrowski for Daily Mail Australia    Published:  01:25, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7982187/Friends-claim-Josh-Reynolds-ex-girlfriend-begged-money-help-fake-tragedies.html }
The fall-out from the scandal surrounding former footy WAG Arabella Del Busso has deepened, amid claims she begged friends for money to help get over the heartbreak of her 'miscarriages' and death of her mother, who's still alive. Friends of the ex-partner of NRL star Josh Reynolds have come forward with explosive allegations after he appeared in Sutherland Local Court on Friday on a domestic assault charge against Del Busso. The Wests Tigers playmaker will allege his model ex conned him out of thousands of dollars, feigned three pregnancies and doctored photos of herself to make him believe she was expecting.  A text message allegedly sent by Ms Del Busso's relative has emerged, urging friends to make a 'small contribution' towards a pamper day of beauty treatments to help to 'take her mind off things'. 'To Bella's beloved friends, it's her [relative] here as we all know bella is going through quite a tough time at the moment, since loosing (sic) her father at a young age, loosing (sic) a set of twins and now the loss of her mum … lets just say it's not easy for her at the ­moment!' one text message obtained by The Sunday Telegraph starts.  'The pain she is enduring is just heart breaking, as we know bella is forever thinking about everyone else and is very giving so I thought well let's try and take her mind of (sic) things, give back to her and let her have a pamper day (facial, massage, pedicure, manicure).  Del Busso's mum Isobel Preusker is in fact still alive and broke her silence earlier this week, telling Nine News her daughter 'needs to be stopped.' It's understood Reynolds' legal team will allege the bank account included in the text message is linked to Ms Del Busso.  The relative who sent the messages has denied any wrongdoing, the publication reported. The Sunday Telegraph also obtained a separate series of explosive texts Ms Del Busso sent to a friend in August, claiming she'd gotten so angry with Reynolds she's kicked down a bedroom door off its hinges. The text exchange included a photo of the damaged door.  'Legit it's been firecrackers alright…f*** it was so much built up'.' one message from Del Busso states. The texts were reportedly sent three weeks before Del Busso claims Reynolds allegedly assaulted her, leaving her with bruised arms and legs during an incident which was partly filmed in September and recently went viral online. Reynolds has denied the assault allegations and will allege in court Ms Del Busso doctored photos of herself to make him believe she was expecting. His legal team is gathering evidence to support those claims, including a statement from a witness who alleges Ms Del Busso asked her to help inject fertility drugs so she appeared pregnant, to which the witness declined. The latest allegations come after a former lover of Ms Del Busso claims he was scammed out of $10,000 when she made up four funerals.    Her ex-boyfriend Michael Hayes, a mechanic and nightclub owner, is one of five men who have given statements to Reynolds' lawyers as they fight his domestic violence charge, The Daily Telegraph reported on Saturday. The 36-year-old, from Sanctuary Cove in Queensland, said he met Del Busso on Facebook and he was the last man she dated before beginning her relationship with Reynolds. 'I fell for her lies because I admit she's beautiful and she knows it,' Mr Hayes claimed. Mr Hayes said they dated for about nine months and claims Del Busso said four people died during a six-month period.  'She said her mother had died and she didn't have money for the funeral - I paid it. Months later another uncle died and another relative, I paid for that funeral too,' he claimed. Mr Hayes claims he also lent Del Busso money for the bond for an apartment.   He was awarded $7866 via a Queensland tribunal in 2019 after suing Del Busso for fraud and obtaining money by deception.  Leaked footage went viral last month showing a shirtless Reynolds, 30, verbally abusing Del Busso as she sat on his bed.  It did not show any assault by the Wests Tigers playmaker towards her.  Reynolds pleaded not guilty to the assault charge. Despite the court proceedings, the NRL has decided Reynolds won't be stood down, 2GB reported. It will be alleged in court Del Busso faked three pregnancies, lied about her mother's death and claimed she had cancer to dupe him and other former boyfriends into giving her money. Reynolds' lawyers will allege she only filed her domestic violence complaint after she learned of his decision to tell police about her alleged deceit.  Reynolds' legal team will allege Del Busso digitally altered photos of herself to appear pregnant, and even went as far to inject herself with fertility drugs to pull off the ruse, The Daily Telegraph reported.  Although Del Busso claimed to have miscarried in her third trimester, Reynolds alleges he was told not to attend medical appointments and check-ups during the early stages of pregnancy.  He will allege he saw Del Busso once after the pair met on social media in 2018, only to be told three months later she was pregnant with twins.  The pregnancy ended in a miscarriage, Del Busso told him, but she soon claimed she was once again pregnant with twins.  She then suffered yet another miscarriage - which he addressed to the public last year.      Reynolds' legal team will allege Del Busso was never pregnant on any of those occasions, saying they have medical documentation to prove it.    Six men who had relationships with Del Busso are expected to support his defence. Sutherland Local Court heard on Friday that 10 witnesses will be called to give evidence at the trial in April, including Del Busso. Outside court, Reynolds simply said: 'I'm happy the matter's been brought forward to prove my innocence. Del Busso's sister Georgia Barone has denied the allegations and has insisted the pregnancies were real.   Reynolds announced he was expecting twins by sharing footage of his gender-reveal on social media in December 2018, and said the parents-to-be had set up a nursery.  A video posted to his Instagram page showed Reynolds throwing a Wests Tigers branded rugby ball covered in spikes at a balloon filled with party confetti. The athlete would then inform his followers months later that Del Busso suffered a miscarriage.   'It's made me deal with something in life that I never thought I'd have to deal with,' he said at the time.  'I'm not going to lie, I was pretty excited. That was something in life I've always wanted but I've sort of had to go along the lines that everything happens for a reason. It's the saddest thing ever.'     Del Busso's mother and a former boyfriend allege the model has been lying about her identity for years.   Del Busso's mum, Isobel Preusker, told 9News her daughter's real name is Donna Preusker - and claims she's gone by fake names including Belladonna Di Donato, Bella Melbourne, and Donna Barcelona. A former boyfriend from Sydney, who wished to remain anonymous, said he knew Del Busso as Belladonna Di Donato, and had given her thousands of dollars she claimed she needed for cancer treatment.  'She told me she had cervical cancer. I gave her about $2,500 to $3,000 for her treatment,' he told Nine News.  Del Busso is also alleged to have had a medical certificate stating she was diagnosed with brain cancer in 2013.  Reynolds' defence team will claim the certificate was fake.      Reynolds was also reported to have given her more than $4,000 after she allegedly claimed her mother had died and needed money for funeral expenses.    The bombshell allegations come after the ugly video of the pair was beamed around Australia last month.    In the clip, the footballer is filmed saying she 'scared the f*** out of me' and is seen asking her to leave.  Agitated Reynolds says: 'Can you get out. Of my house. I want you out now. I want you out now or I'm going to f***ing flip it.' The West Tigers released a statement saying they were aware the video was doing the rounds online.   A spokesman said: 'Both Josh and Wests Tigers have previously alerted NSW Police and the NRL Integrity Unit as to this matter and will continue to work closely with them as required.'   Arabella Del Busso was revealed to be the woman Josh Reynolds verbally abuses in the clip that viral last month. The shirtless Wests Tigers playmaker, 30, was seen yelling at a woman sitting on his bed, in leaked footage.  Del Busso has denied that it is her in the video although her cavoodle named 'Meatballs' is present on the bed.  The release of the clip and an ongoing court case about claims Reynolds' assaulted Del Busso have put his playing career in jeopardy.    Meanwhile, people who know the footballer have been surprised to learn that Del Busso has previously made headlines over a separate scandal.   Del Busso was wrongly dragged into controversy involving a nude photo and a Richmond Tigers AFL player back in 2017. At the time, she said she had been bombarded with messages asking if it was her in a photo with a premiership medallion draped around her neck.   'I've had so many people contact me asking if it is me,' she told Daily Mail Australia at the time.   'I can assure you I am obviously not the woman with the medallion around my neck.'  'I don't have anything to do with it. I don't have anything to do with the Richmond Football Club.'  She joked: 'If anything, my breasts are better than that.'  At the time, she owned up to starring in a separate viral photograph showing her nearly naked in front of a Richmond mural for grand final week.    'It was for my fans and followers,' she said.  'It was a bit of hype for them'.    
