drugs
{ By Ryan Parry West Coast Editor and James Desborough For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:53, 8 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7982111/The-Irishman-producer-speaks-fought-alongside-Martin-Scorsese-film-made.html }
With 10 Oscar nominations hit movie The Irishman is set to steal the show at the 92nd Academy Awards Sunday.  Front and center will be legendary actors Robert De Niro, Al Pacino and Joe Pesci – all of whom starred in Netflix’s mammoth hit - as well as celebrated director Martin Scorsese. But sat in the star-studded audience at Hollywood’s Dolby Theatre will be a man without whom the movie would never have been made - and few will know his name - former printer cartridge salesman Gerald 'Jerry' Chamales.  It’s thanks to this 69-year-old movie buff’s instincts and dogged determination that this masterpiece of modern film was brought to our screens.  And in an exclusive interview with DailyMail.com, Chamales - who reveals how he turned his life around after battling homelessness and alcohol and drug abuse as a young man - opens up for the first time about his incredible 12-year journey to bring the pages of a little known book to life. Businessman Chamales, who had never made a movie before, snapped up the rights to ‘I Heard You Paint Houses’, after his wife Kathleen read the thrilling true-life book detailing the exploits of self-confessed mob hitman Frank Sheeran, who claimed to have a major role in Teamsters leader Jimmy Hoffa’s mysterious 1982 disappearance.  The 71-page book was written by former homicide prosecutor and defense attorney Charles Brandt in 2004 to little fanfare.  But gangster film fan Chamales immediately saw its potential. ‘The original rights holder was something and I thank forever my wife Kathleen for finding the book and introducing me to the material and then it was just magic,’ he explained.  It was an ambitious plan - reuniting his screen idols, De Niro, Pacino, Pesci and director Scorsese all in the same movie. But the passionate businessman says in the early days the film looked doomed. He saw door after door slam in his face as he tried to sell his dream to the big Hollywood studios. Even as things finally began to fall into place, actor Joe Pesci refused to join the cast because he had technically retired.  It was only thanks to Robert De Niro pestering his Goodfellas co-star that Pesci gave in to play mafia boss Russell Bufalino.  And at one stage Chamales sat bewildered as determined director Martin Scorsese assembled the whole cast for a table read through, without even having a movie deal.  Now screen legend De Niro openly praises Chamales ‘for making The Irishman happen’.  Brentwood, California based Chamales told DailyMail.com: ‘It's a lot of fun. I am having the time of my life, are you kidding me? I'm still pinching myself. It's just been an extraordinary journey for my wife Kathleen and I. ‘I had been so personally passionate about the project, when doubt would come in, I would just crush it and set it aside. I had so much faith in Bob De Niro and his producing partner Jane Rosenthal. ‘ They were so passionate, so committed that I just essentially surrendered to the idea that where there is a will there is a way.  ‘My son pulled me aside, he said, "Dad, when I was in high school, you said you were going to make a movie. I never thought you were going to start here". ‘And so I just felt so much warmth and I felt so grateful that I could be part of this journey.’  Chamales beams as he reflects on how De Niro praises him for making the project happen, even though ‘every movie studio’ turned them down, before Netflix stepped in to pen a movie deal four years ago.   ‘At the wrap party in New York, I brought my son and Robert De Niro looked over at his friend and said, "Oh, that's Jerry Chamales. He put this whole thing together.”  ‘Now I can't tell you how grateful I was because it was with my son (Ryan) and it was just a very proud moment.' Jane (Rosenthal) at the Critics Choice Awards was very kind and said, “this may never have happened if Jerry had not optioned the material”.  'I was very grateful to hear that from her who I totally respect. She is fantastic.’  While he lapped up the praise from De Niro in person, Chamales recalls how he was first wowed by the Oscar winner at his local cinema in Westwood, LA. The former printer cartridge salesman, who ran a small distribution business in Venice Beach, treated his employees to weekly outings as a reward for their hard work by taking them to see the opening nights of major movie releases.  At that time the producer’s company operated a sober program, assisting people with substance abuse issues by employing them at his distribution company Omni Computer Products.  Chamales said: ‘I have always been passionate about movies.  ‘Every Friday I would take my employees down to the matinee to watch the newest releases movies like Lethal Weapon; in fact before I got involved my four favorite movies were Goodfellas, Casino, Raging Bull and The Departed.  ‘In my company we gave a lot of people second chances, (people) that could not get jobs. ‘And we are very proud of that. We hired a lot of people with substance issues and gave them a shot and put them back on a productive work force.  ‘That was fun and we helped save the rhino too. It was quite a journey. And I owe so much to people on the way who have mentored me.’  Chamales had learned from his own battle with drink and drugs, while also dealing with the trauma of coming from a broken home and a family with a history of alcoholism.  ‘Forty-two years ago I had a severe alcohol and substance abuse problem,’ he said. ‘I was homeless and unemployable and bouncing around.  ‘I put that down to my early life having a lot of suffering in it. My parents divorced when I was two.  ‘My father was this iconic World War II hero, who wrote two novels that became movies - but he died an alcoholic tragically at 35.  ‘And I have a lot of that in my family tree; like my mother was a situational alcoholic, my grandfather was one - so there does seem to be a genetic pre-disposition to addiction and alcoholism.  ‘I was in a foster home aged two to eight and then moved back in with my single mom.  ‘I become a latch key kid roaming the streets and becoming a delinquent; and started experimenting with alcohol and other substances before I ended up collapsing at 26. ‘And then I began a path of rebuilding my life where I stopped drinking and using drugs.  ‘At 27 I started my own company Omni Computer Products - a small product distribution company in Venice Beach - which then led to Rhinotek.  ‘I was an entrepreneur and really good at it.  ‘I had the privilege of winning the Ernst and Young Entrepreneur of the Year award which is kind of like the Academy Awards in business.’  But Chamales’ bug for movies would not leave him, so he sought advice on how to break into the business. He consulted with close friend, the late Marvin Worth, Oscar nominated producer and comic Lenny Bruce’s manager. ‘I asked him: “Marvin how did you get involved in the movie business?”  ‘He said: “Jerry, first way is to option material - find great material and package it; and the second way is to become extremely wealthy and you can write a check and become a producer.  ‘I never forgot that so when this material was presented to me I thought about Marvin and thought I could do it and then I was off to the races.’  Chamales sold Rhinotek, which boasted an annual turnover of around $50m, to a private equity firm in 2006.  Within weeks ‘the luck of the Irishman’ - as he fondly calls it, landed on his lap.  ‘My wife was at the Sun Valley Writer's Conference in 2006,' he recalls. ‘She heard the author of the book, I Heard You Paint Houses, Charles Brandt speak and she was so impressed she gave me a copy of the book.  ‘Then my wife and I were back in Sun Valley, Idaho, we were walking by the Chapter One bookstore and we know the woman who owns the bookstore.  ‘Out front in the bookstore in the window was the book I Heard You Paint Houses, featured.  ‘I became obsessed. And so I walked in with my wife Kathleen and I said, “Cheryl, I just read that book it's fantastic." It turned out that Cheryl Thomas, who owns Chapter One in Ketchum, Idaho, knew Brandt and he lived nearby. She called him and handed the phone to Jerry. ‘He said, "Jerry, where are you? Don't move, I'm coming over”,' recalls Chamales. After a ‘three hour’ discussion, Chamales followed friend Worth’s advice and optioned the rights immediately. However, after 18 months, Chamales’ hopes of making his first movie appeared dead in the water. He hit up the likes of Warner Bros and HBO, but not a single movie studio was interested in the project. In desperation he rang entertainment lawyer and friend Jake Bloom for advice on who to approach in Hollywood.  Miraculously, three days later De Niro called Bloom on a separate project - and asked about who had options for Brandt's book.  ‘I said to Jake, “No matter what, let's partner with Jane Rosenthal and Bob De Niro at Tribeca”.  'That's the direction I wanted to take with the project. ‘Fortunately, it could have gotten in the hands of another production company and it may have never gotten in the hands of Tribeca Productions so for that, I feel very grateful that I didn't screw the thing up by going in other directions.  ‘I knew I had lightning in a bottle, I knew it was something fantastic, and Jane and Bob were the best people.’  Driving force De Niro felt that his role as Sheeran had to complimented on screen with Goodfellas and Casino co-star Joe Pesci - even though he was retired.  ‘It was really Bob and his extraordinary deep relationship with Joe and his persistence of never giving up,’ explained Chamales.  ‘He just was really able to share his enthusiasm and his emotion and his passion for the project with Joe and ultimately Joe said yes.  ‘We always heard that Joe was going to be attached, he's going to be a part of the film.  ‘But ultimately he resisted and I think it was really Bob who was just able to magnificently embrace him and get him to step off the curb and Joe finally said, “I'm going to do it”.  He didn't want to play the role like he's done traditionally in Goodfellas and Casino, sort of this volatile mafia guy. ‘ So that's what makes his part, in my view, so brilliant, is his subtlety, the way Pesci plays Russell Bufalino, I thought it was terrific.  ‘Because Russell Bufalino was referred to as the quiet Don. Super powerful, not a volatile type guy but he spoke softly and carried a big stick.’  Even after De Niro brought in Oscar winning director Scorsese and four-time Oscar-nominated screenwriter Steven Zaillian for the script, landing a movie deal was still an uphill struggle.  Chamales said: ‘Goodness with De Niro, Scorsese, a brilliant script and bringing in Al Pacino and ultimately Joe Pesci this is not only one of the most financeable films you can think of, but we are going to get traction right away.  ‘But that his not how it rolled out. It was very challenging. The scheduling, financing issues and ultimately as year by year went by I thought are we going to get this made?’  When the movie landed a $55m infusion from STX for the foreign rights, Chamales thought the project was closer than ever.  ‘But then we had to get the budget down,’ he said. After eight years of negotiations, the unthinkable happened.  Paramount Pictures, who had initially signed a deal, pulled the plug on the project days before production started.  Defiant Scorsese still pushed ahead with a cast read through of the script in New York, however.  Chamales smiled: ‘It was the first time I had ever been to a table reading and to see these incredible artists reading this brilliant script.  ‘It was magic for me. I was so excited - like a child in a candy store.  ‘What was so powerful for me, that at that juncture we did not have the financing, so it was all about faith - and let’s assume that this is going to get made even though we do not know where the capital is going to come from.  ‘That faith, which was ever present as I watched everyone, has been an incredible joy. I believe this film was born under a lucky star.  ‘Bob and Jane’s commitment and tenacity to overcome every imaginable obstacle to bring this film to fruition was vital.’  Refusing to give up on Chamales’ dream, De Niro then struck a deal with streaming service Netflix even though the movie would primarily be seen on the small screen. Chamales admits: ’It was our last hope… without them this never would have been made.’  Netflix did not even cut back the $159m production budget - Scorsese’s highest ever.  The first seven days saw 26.4 million accounts watch the film, while the Golden Globes, SAG Awards, BAFTAs and Critics Choice all handed The Irishman multiple nominations.  However, other than the ensemble cast honor at the Critics Choice, The Irishman has failed to land any big wins at the major events.  But all eyes are now on the Oscars Sunday.  In the past couple of years Netflix has been at war with US theater owners over claims they are hijacking audiences from cinemas and ‘attempting to buy the Oscars’.  But Chamales insists Netflix is actually the salvation of modern day movie viewing. ‘Netlilx is like a shot of meth amphetamine to the entire creative process,’ he said.  ‘They have stimulated so much extraordinary content over the last seven years. They have revolutionized and innovated and spent a tremendous amount of capital to support artists to create extraordinary content. It is remarkable. ‘Netflix may get a bad rap by traditionalists, but look at how much employment and careers they have launched.  ‘The fabulous level of quality production and they spent $15bn in 2019 on content.  ‘There has never been a studio that I am aware of that has spent half that amount for that slate of films.’  He added: ‘Human beings resist change. This is a revolution.’   
