drugs
{ By Matthew Bond for Event Magazine   Published:  22:01, 8 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//home/event/article-7973991/Dolittle-review-awful-film-Robert-Downey-Jr-gives-one-worst-performances.html }
Dolittle                                                                                             Cert: PG, 1hr 41mins  Until 2008, Robert Downey Jr was best known as the troubled actor who failed to live up to the precocious Oscar-nominated promise he demonstrated in Chaplin and came close to wrecking his career with drugs.  And then along came Tony Stark, aka Iron Man, shortly followed by Sherlock Holmes for Guy Ritchie and a star was well and truly reborn. For the decade or so that followed, the once-again great man – unrivalled master of muttering dialogue at machine-gun speed – could do no wrong. All that, however, changes with Dolittle. Yes, less than a year after the aptly named Avengers: Endgame, he gives one of the worst performances of his career in a film that may make a few small children giggle (forgive them, they know no better) but disappoints on so many levels. For a few brief moments there is hope, as we realise that Hugh Lofting’s much-abused children’s classic has been returned from the modern-day setting that marked Eddie Murphy’s two versions (1998 and 2001) to a cod-Victorian era more in line with the books. Then we see that Downey Jr is intent on playing the physician who famously learned to speak to the animals as a mad, inexplicably Welsh-accented recluse, and that most of said animals will be delivering their lines in contemporary American street-talk, and all hope is already lost. It’s difficult to know which is worse – Downey’s performance or Stephen Gaghan’s dual role behind the camera as both director and co-writer.  The former is more of a non-performance really, made up of a ridiculous Welsh whisper (possibly borrowed from his Port Talbot-raised co-star, Michael Sheen), silly hair that may once have belonged to Captain Jack Sparrow from Pirates Of The Caribbean, and a frock coat that makes Dolittle look like a cross between the Mad Hatter and Willy Wonka. As for Gaghan, hitherto best known for serious films such as Syriana and Traffic, he demonstrates almost zero talent for making a good children’s film. The pace is tiringly frantic, the charm low and the humour low-brow and lavatorial. A hare sniffs: ‘I think Dr Dolittle did a little do-do.’ Really? Yes, what plays out has been rightly stripped of Lofting’s racism, but in its place are an unnecessary romantic subplot, a chimp pointlessly transformed into a gorilla and Downey Jr littering his dialogue with toe-curling ‘boyos’ and ‘fair plays’. With not a pushmi-pullyu in sight, it makes Rex Harrison’s much-derided 1967 effort look like a classic.   ALSO OUT THIS WEEK  Birds Of Prey: And The Fantabulous Emancipation Of One Harley Quinn (15)  We first met Harley Quinn four years ago in the rather good Suicide Squad, alongside the usual male leading characters of comic-book adaptations, such as Will Smith’s Deadshot and Jared Leto’s Joker. But now Margot Robbie brings the sassy, pig-tailed character back in a stand-alone spin-off that seeks to show that ‘sisters are doing it for themselves’. It’s directed by Cathy Yan, whose only previous feature film – Dead Pigs – played the festival circuit but was released only in China. It’s written by Christina Hodson, who penned the excellent Transformers spin-off, Bumblebee, and it features a gang of inevitably kick-ass female characters played by the likes of Rosie Perez and Mary Elizabeth Winstead. It’s colourful, high-energy stuff, with the story driven by Harley Quinn’s straight-talking narration, through which we learn that she has split up with Joker, she’s constantly in danger, and an immensely valuable diamond has gone missing.  Which has really upset arch-villain Roman Sionis (Ewan McGregor). But while this definitely has its moments, it’s a film that never quite bursts into life, held back by some nasty underlying violence, a story that is simply too complicated and a supporting team that don’t quite grasp the opportunity they’ve been handed. Parasite (15) Bong Joon-ho’s psychological thriller and social satire arrives garlanded with honours. It won the Palme d’Or at Cannes last year, picked up two Baftas last week and is nominated for no fewer than six Oscars tonight. And for once it does live up to the hype as, one by one, the resourceful but not always honest members of the impoverished Kim family, who share a cramped and smelly Seoul basement, inveigle their way into the employ and luxurious living standards of the wealthy Parks.  Ah, but can you ever really throw off the whiff of poverty? Despite the occasionally slow pace, an impressively strong finish means you’ll enjoy finding out. Mr Jones (15) Despite being based on a true story, there’s something that doesn’t quite convince about this undeniably handsome but overlong production.  Which is a shame, as the discovery of the man-made famines in Ukraine in the Thirties by young Welsh journalist Gareth Jones is an important one. Millions of peasants died as Stalin ruthlessly stripped the country of its grain. But time and again, as we watch James Norton struggle to find the right note as Jones, you find yourself thinking ‘it can’t have been quite like that’. Further sadness is prompted by an almost distractingly good Peter Sarsgaard as New York Times Moscow bureau chief Walter Duranty, denier of the famine, and by a haunting postscript. Underwater (15) Cross Alien with The Meg… yup, that’s pretty much it, as a manned drilling station seven miles down in the Pacific Ocean is suddenly wrecked by what appears to be a huge earthquake. When a small group of survivors isn’t trying to make a dangerous underwater escape, Kristen Stewart and Jessica Henwick rush around in their underwear as if the Time’s Up movement never happened. Popcorn stuff. Plus One (15) This debut feature from writer-directors Jeff Chan and Andrew Rhymer will bring Four Weddings And A Funeral to mind, as long-time friends Alice (Maya Erskine) and Ben (Jack Quaid) decide to join platonic forces to survive a looming summer of weddings.  And while we’re all thinking ‘yeah, that’s going to work’, it also shows that Chan and Rhymer are better at touching romance than comedy and that Erskine is much better than she at first noisily appears.  
