{ By Lauren Fruen and Ariel Zilber For Dailymail.com   Published:  07:03, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8036843/Two-men-confess-strangling-model-24-filming-chilling-video-mocking-victim.html }
Two men are said to have confessed to strangling a Brazilian model who vanished from her Los Angeles home last month, before driving to 1,300 miles to Oklahoma to ditch her car.  The suspects, named as Thiago Philipe Souza Bragança and Walderson Junior da Silva, allegedly used a power cord to kill Ana Braga, 24, G1 reports.  Thiago is said to have told police he and da Silva were high on drugs at the time of the killing but that they were defending from themselves from Ana, who had a knife.  The two men, arrested Saturday in Brazil, are then said to have filming a chilling video mocking their victim after hiding her body into a comforter.  Surveillance footage shows the accused going into Braga's LA home with the aspiring model before leaving again a few hours later with the comforter, according to reports.  California investigators revealed on Saturday they found a video believed to be of Braga's bloodied body. Authorities said that a car registered in her name was found abandoned 1,000 miles away in Oklahoma.  The 2015 white Honda Accord registered to Braga was recovered by authorities on February 12 after it stood vacant and abandoned for weeks in the parking lot of Remington Park casino and racetrack in Oklahoma City. Braga was last heard from on January 29, when she spoke by telephone with her mother, Delma Felix, in Brazil, according to KTLA-TV. Police in California had said they have surveillance footage showing the bloody body of a woman lying face down with a belt and electric cord wrapped around her neck. The woman's body has yet to be recovered but the victim filmed in the surveillance video is feared to be Braga. Detectives in California used GPS technology to trace Braga's car to Oklahoma City. A search warrant revealed that investigators went inside the vehicle and found an ID belonging to a woman named 'Ana', according to KFOR-TV. Oklahoma City detectives said that the white sedan was 'found locked in the south lot' before it was impounded and taken into an evidence chamber 'inside a climate-controlled storage facility.' Authorities in Oklahoma say that surveillance footage from February 1 shows two individuals ditching the car inside the parking lot before getting into a 'green minivan.' Braga moved to Los Angeles from her native Brazil a year ago to pursue a career in modeling. 'I want them to find her body and I want them to bring her body back to Brazil,' Felix told KTLA-TV. Felix said that she would speak with her daughter every day. Suddenly, after their January 29 conversation, she stopped calling. 'I want to find my daughter because I want to do her funeral and I'm not in the condition to do all that.' The mother said: 'I feel like trash, I feel like I'm nobody. She was the only one who helped me with everything.' Timothy O'Brien, a friend of Braga, told KTLA-TV: 'I just try to go back and kinda think who could have done this.' Braga worked part-time as an Uber driver. She also earned money by working for a food delivery service, according to friends. Before moving to Orange County and Los Angeles, Braga lived near Boston.    
