{ By Adam Mccleery For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  03:53, 24 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8036071/Parcels-143kgs-meth-smuggled-Australia-Australia-Post.html }
Drug smugglers are using Australia Post to distribute meth in Australia.  From July to December 2019, in NSW alone, the AFP recorded approximately 143.52kgs of methamphetamine seizures in the mail. AFP Detective Acting Superintendent Eastern Command Robert Jenner said the operation and discoveries had put crime syndicates 'on notice'.  'The results also show that as long as the demand for ice remains strong in Australian communities, criminal syndicates will go to any lengths to try to meet that,' she said. The seizures were a part of Operation Syndal which saw more than 10,000 pieces of mail scanned for drugs and other illicit items.  Larger discoveries included a 4.7kg bulk seizure of methamphetamine during the execution of a Victorian search warrant. As well as another one kilogram seizure in the lining of a mail item sent from Mexico and destined for a Sydney address.  Police also completed a large number of small seizures from mail packages which could have resulted in more than 1000 individual street deals. Australian Border Force Regional Commander for NSW Danielle Yannopoulos had words of warning for crime syndicates, saying they will be caught.  'No matter how criminals attempt to conceal and move their drugs, ABF officers have the skills, technology and the resources to find the substances and track down the people who are attempting to bring them in,' she said.  ACIC Executive Director Capability Mark Harrison MBE cited recent wastewater analysis, showing problem areas for drug use, indicated a growing problem.  'Understanding these preferences is important to develop and deliver tailored responses to target and disrupt the supply chain,' he said.  Operation Syndal included a total of 26 search warrants Australia-wide over the week beginning Monday, February 17, 2020. It is part of a larger operation, Taskforce Vitreus, a working group under the National Law Enforcement Methylamphetamine Strategy (NLEMS).  26 Search warrants, 46 deterrence door knocks, five arrests on Commonwealth and State charges. More than 10,000 mail items searched or scanned nationally. Larger seizures included 4.7kg bulk seizure of methamphetamine at a Victorian search warrant. Also a one kilogram seizure in the lining of a mail item from Mexico and addressed to a Sydney residence.  99.1 grams of meth in mail seizures as small as 0.1 grams 33.1 grams of MDMA (tablets can weight as little as 0.2 of a gram)  5.5kg of cannabis from a variety of seizures  Police seized approximately $52,000 found at search warrants nationally. Source: Australian Federal Police      
