drugs
{ By Monica Greep For Mailonline   Published:  11:46, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-8029821/Former-gay-porn-star-claims-father-tried-adult-girlfriend-sex-12.html }
A former gay porn star has told of how he was forced to try to have sex with his father's girlfriend at the age of 12, and was taunted by his father with homophobic insults when he failed. Israeli Jonathan Agassi, whose real name is Yonatan Langer, burst on to the adult film scene in the late 2000s at the age of 23, after starring in 2009 landmark gay pornographic film 'Men of Israel'.  Filmmaker Tomer Heymann documented the life of the adult star for seven-years, detailing Agassi’s journey from prolific adult superstar to male escort, battling many demons, including drug addiction. In BBC Four documentary 'The Rise and Fall of a Porn Star', Agassi insisted that the industry was the 'best thing that ever happened to him', however his drug habit soon spiralled out of control as the film crew are forced to intervene when he appears to overdose. After a turbulent few years of drug taking and prostitution he was forced to return home, where he now works in a supermarket.   While in his Berlin flat after a party, he told the harrowing story of how his father Raviv attempted to make his son to have sex with his adult girlfriend at the age of 12, and teased him with homophobic slurs when he couldn't.   He claimed: 'I was really hurt because Raviv had called me a homo. What kind of father does that, gets his son a woman to f***.  Showing pictures of his dad's girlfriend to the filmmaker, he went on: 'That's why he called me a "homo", because I couldn’t'. 'She kissed me on the mouth, she was my dad's girlfriend. My dad orchestrated the whole thing for me to f*** her. Don't forget that I was 12.'  The documentary delved into the traumatic childhood of Agassi, growing up gay in the suburbs of Tel Aviv, with his mother detailing the horrendous bullying her son faced due to his sexuality.  While on a beach in their hometown, Anna told a disturbing tale of when Agassi was left with a broken arm after jumping out a window, urged on by his classmates.  'I can't describe what we went though during his childhood', said Anna, 'I got a call from school one day to tell me Jonathan is standing on the window sill. The kids shouting jump, jump and it was on the second floor.' Jonathan went on: 'They said, "Go through window" and I said "I don't want to do this", and I swear, I'm tearing up.'  He added: 'A ten-year-old breaks his arm you'd expect his classmates to come and visit. They threw s*** at me because I'm feminine.  And it's always like I'm the one to blame.'  It soon emerged that Jonathan was not just a porn star, but had also been working as a male escort.  He revealed that his first time being paid for sex was accidental, and said that while he was left 'depressed and crying' - he would eventually weigh up the shame he felt , compared to the money he could make.  He said: 'The first time I escorted was in Israel, I wouldn’t let him do what he did to me unless he paid me. 'He thought he could buy me and he did. "Do this, get another $300". I came home at 10am, wasted with $4,000 depressed, crying.  'I put the money away and then Mum got back from work and I said "I did something all night long, I’m so sad, I’ll never be a prostitute".  'I remember taking out all that money and Mum looked at it and asked, "How much do you have there? Weigh it against how it made you feel, is it worth it?".'  The film documented the gradually increasing drug use of Agassi, which began with adult star casually taking cocaine and methamphetamine.  He was shown taking the drugs in his Berlin flat, before going to adult award show, the HustlaBall ceremony, where he won Best Adult Male Performer in the US.  After permanently moving to Germany, Agassi's drug use appeared to be getting worse, with footage showing him smoking methamphetamine. He said: 'It's a hard drug.  'It gets you mile high, gives you loads of energy, it awakens you. It's not like a trip, like you get on ecstasy, it makes you very sexual'.  He was seen injecting himself with a 'painful' drug to maintain an erection for four hour prior to a shoot, before smoking more methamphetamine in a room full of other porn stars.    It was soon clear that the star was struggling to gain work, and revealed that he was missing chunks from his payments as he was unable to climax on set.  'This gift, this career is the best thing that ever happened to me', says Agassi, 'After all the bad, this is the best thing that ever happened to me, I’m going to hold on to it forever.'  He was later seen talking on the phone to a man he would have sex with for money and insisted that while he was 'exhausted' and 'didn't know how he would do it', he was happy because 'at least he had work'.   At one point in the documentary, Agassi is seen confronting his dad for abandoning him as a child, and asked why his treatment of Jonathan was never equal to that of his siblings.  'In all honestly', said his dad, 'Shahaf (his sibling) was the only child that was planned. We moved to Canada, after only four months, your mum said she was pregnant.  'She wanted a girl. She was sure it was a girl and that's the only reason we kept the pregnancy.  In the end it was a boy. For her, it was a shock she had postpartum depression. She was devastated.  'You were always alone , you were always clean and well fed, but you never got the hugs and attention babies need. 'That's why she left. I'm not trying to blame anyone, but your mother's depression, that was a big part of what came between us. I became cold and distant and I simply shut my heart.'  Towards the end of the film, Agassi was seen injecting drugs into his arm and later was seen nonsensically mumbling and passing out backwards on top of a car with Heymann stepping in to assist him.  Later, the filmmaker was forced to step in once again when he began to writhe around on the floor after losing control of his body, before passing, all while presumably high on drugs.  The film ended by showing a tearful Agassi sat outside smoking a cigarette, admitting that while he originally thought he was enjoying his life, he was 'on drugs for all of it'.  He confessed that he was 'addicted to a certain drug' and told that he was thinking of telling his friends he could 'see the end' of Jonathan Agassi. 'I'm having a rough time, said Aggasi, 'Sad tired and weak. I can't really sleep, my sex drive has gone, I can't perform sexually.  'I  got addicted to a certain drug. I thought I was muscular, healthy, had a sex drive. I was on drugs the whole time.  'I was thinking about posting a Facebook status I can see the end of Jonathan Agassi.'  Today, Agassi is living with his mother in Tel Aviv, having quit the adult film industry and currently works in a supermarket while also publicly speaking on the dangers of drugs.  Storyville: The Rise and Fall of a Pornstar will air on BBC Four on Monday at 10pm. 
