{ By Eliza Mcphee For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  02:39, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8033171/Samuel-William-Davidson-face-charges-fatal-Oatlands-crash.html }
A builder accused of drunkenly mowing down seven kids - killing four of them and leaving another critically injured - is set to be hit with more charges over the crash.  Samuel William Davidson, 29, lost control of his Mitsubishi 4WD and mounted the kerb, ploughing into seven children who were on their way to buy an ice-cream in Oatlands, in Sydney's north-west on February 1. Antony, 13, Angelina, 12, and Sienna Abdallah, 8 — and their cousin, 11-year-old Veronica Sakr were all killed and another 11-year-old boy is still suffering in hospital. Davidson received 20 charges including manslaughter and drink driving and police allege he was three times over the legal blood alcohol limit after the crash. His blood was tested last week and will be analysed by impairment expert Dr Judy Perl. It is likely Davidson will face drug driving after the tests are examined, according to a source close to the investigation, The Sunday Telegraph reported. Witnesses said he was driving erratically and had tried to overtake someone at a roundabout.  Danny Abdallah who is the father to Antony, Angelina and Sienna has called for the NSW government to scrap the legal blood alcohol limit of 0.05.  'I'm a drinker, but I think the alcohol limit should be zero.' he previously told Daily Mail Australia. 'I think you should just know that you can't have any, that you can only have water, so the temptation isn't there. 'People think 'I'll just have one more, I'll be all right' because they don't want to get a taxi or an Uber, or they've spent all their money on the night out.  'We have to do something.'   Davidson was refused bail and will appear in court again on April 2.    *  Seven children were riding their bikes along the footpath of Beddington Road, Oatlands, just before 8pm on February 1 * The children were on the way to buy ice cream when a Mitsubishi 4WD allegedly ploughed into them *Residents raced to children's aid and frantically tried to save them while waiting for emergency services  *Four children - including a boy, two of his sisters and a family friend - died at the scene * Another boy, ten, was rushed to hospital with critical head injuries but is now in a stable condition * Two girls were taken to hospital with non life-threatening injuries *Male 4WD driver, a 29-year-old from Oatlands, underwent roadside breath test and allegedly returned positive result *The alleged driver Samuel Davidson was arrested and taken to Castle Hill Police with his 24-year-old male passenger *Davidson was charged with four counts of manslaughter 
