{ By Charlotte Dean For Mailonline   Published:  01:06, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8033593/Love-Islands-Connor-Durman-jokes-pals-night-out.html }
Love Island's Connor Durman brushed off his recent drama during a night out with his pals after accusing his ex of selling snaps of him 'posing with white powder'. The reality star, 25, appeared in high spirits as he hit the town with Love Island alum Callum Jones, Anton Danyluk, Joe Garratt in Manchester on Saturday night. The night out comes just hours after a source told MailOnline Connor is convinced his ex-girlfriend Stevie-Leigh Pich revealed the images of him. Connor was dressed to impress in a white shirt and jumper teamed with a pair of skintight checked trousers and navy slip on shoes. Giving him a run for his money in the tight trouser department was season five Islander Anton, who was rocking a pair of cream trousers with a white polo neck.  Meanwhile, Joe opted for an all black look and Callum showcased his glowing South African tan in a grey t-shirt, black jeans and a leather jacket.  This comes after Connor accused his ex-girlfriend Stevie-Leigh of selling pictures of him 'posing with lines of white powder'. Images that emerged on Saturday show the reality star sitting shirtless in front of a table with white powder carefully arranged into lines in front of him. Sources revealed to MailOnline the former coffee bean salesman is 'convinced' 'jealous' Stevie-Leigh was the person who released the images of him. Since leaving the show, Connor has continued his romance with his villa love interest Sophie Piper, who he has recently begun exclusivity dating. A source close to Connor revealed: 'Connor is convinced this picture was released by his ex-girlfriend. It's no coincidence that this has come out the day after Sophie confirmed that she and Connor have gone exclusive. They added: 'He's moving on with life and wishes she'd do the same. Connor says Stevie is jealous that he made on to Love Island and she didn't and is now trying to get her own back.' This comes just weeks after Stevie-Leigh told MailOnline that watching Connor with other women on the dating show 'made her feel sick' as he professed that she still loved him at the time. MailOnline have contacted Stevie-Leigh for comment and there is no suggestion that she was the one to release the image of Connor in question. Connor has been forced to apologise for the pictures and claimed it was a 'low point' in his life while living in Australia before appearing on the show. A representative for the star told MailOnline: 'Connor is very embarrassed that the picture has been made public as it was taken at a particularly low point in his life by someone he believed he could trust...  'But he takes full responsibility for his actions, and is sorry for any distress it may cause his friends and family. 'He is trying to put all this behind him and move forward with his life.' The image of Connor was obtained by The Sun, and a source told the publication: 'Connor was living in Australia last year and recreational drugs were sadly used.  'One of the reasons he left Australia and came back to the UK to be with his family is because he realised his life was spiralling out of control. He regrets his past and is now moving forward with his life. He is sorry.'  
