drugs
{ By Sameer Suri For Dailymail.com   Published:  00:49, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8033323/Amanda-Bynes-airs-details-controversial-conservatorship-case.html }
Amanda Bynes is airing out the details of what she refers to as her 'controversial' conservatorship case. The 33-year-old former child star, whose mother Lynn is her conservator, posted a selfie video to Instagram on Friday discussing the matter. She revealed that she has 'asked to see the judge next week' over a dispute regarding her therapy bills. 'Hey, y'all. I wanted to thank you guys so much for your support. The fact that you've been rooting for me for years means more than you know,' she began.  'Today I wanna talk about a controversial topic: my conservatorship case. I have been going to a treatment center that charges $5,200 a month.' Amanda added: 'There is no reason why I shouldn't go to a therapist who takes my insurance for $5,000 less a month. This is why I've asked to see the judge next week regarding this conservatorship issue.' She told her fans: 'Thank you guys so much for hearing me out. I'm sorry that this is what I'm dealing with and I'm sorry to put my problems onto the internet, but this is what life has come to. So thank you guys so much for always supporting me. Love you all. Peace out. Appreciate your love and support.' Amanda got engaged to a man called Paul Michael around Valentine's Day, but it has emerged that her parents will not allow her to marry him. Lynn's conservator status gives her the right to prevent the marriage and she intends to use it, according to TMZ insiders.  Neither of Amanda's parents, Lynn and Rick Bynes, has ever been introduced to Paul and they feel that the marriage is inadvisable for their daughter. Amanda, whose engagement ring is reportedly a $49 Amazon buy, introduced Paul to her Instagram followers in a video this Thursday. In the video she apologized to 'everyone whom I called ugly on Twitter,' sharing that 'I was so drugged out' when she did so. 'Now I have remained sober for over a year, same with Paul, and I just want to let you know that I love you guys and I'm so happy now,' said Amanda.  During the first half of December, Amanda got permission from a judge to live on her own once she obtains a place to do so. Rick, Lynn and Amanda brought along their conservatorship lawyer Tamar Arminak to the hearing where the judge made this decision. An E! News insider recently insisted she is 'not doing drugs again' and revealed keeping her on the wagon is 'always the concern' among her loved ones. Amanda's past legal problems date back to a driving under the influence charge in 2012 - two years after her last film role in Easy A. In 2013 she got caught smoking marijuana in her building's lobby in New York, then threw her bong out the 36th-floor window when the cops went into her apartment. That same year she started a fire in a stranger's driveway and was placed under psychiatric hold for 72 hours. A year later she made - then took back - sexual abuse allegations against Rick. She explained her decision to make the accusation: 'The microchip in my brain made me say those things but he's the one that ordered them to microchip me.'  In 2018 Lynn's conservatorship of her daughter was lengthened to last until this coming August, The Blast reports. 
