{ By Snejana Farberov For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:40, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8042435/Doctor-called-El-Chapo-opioids-admits-prescribing-painkillers.html }
A New Jersey doctor who called himself the 'El Chapo of Opioids' and 'Candy Man' has admitted to prescribing addictive painkillers to patients who did not need them and falsifying medical records to cover his tracks.  Robert Delagente, 45, of Oakland, New Jersey, on Monday pleaded guilty in Newark federal court to one count of conspiracy to distribute controlled dangerous substances; three counts of distribution of controlled dangerous substances, and one count of falsifying medical records.   US Attorney Craig Carpenito's office alleged that for the last five years, Delagente used his practice, North Jersey Family Medicine in Oakland, to illegally prescribe opioids, including oxycodone, Percocet and various benzodiazepines, often allowing his patients to choose their own dosage.   'This defendant knowingly prescribed for his patients some of the most dangerous and addictive drugs available, sometimes with no more contact than a text message from the patient,' Carpenito stated. 'Many of these patients were dealing with pain and addiction, and instead of getting help from their doctor, they were drawn deeper into the cycle of drug abuse.'  According to a criminal complaint, one patient received nearly 500 doses of Percocet, Oxycontin and other powerful opioids over a seven-week period without visiting Delagente's office.  One week after receiving a 10-day supply of Percocet and a 30-day supply of clonazepam, the patient texted that the medication wasn't 'working like it used to.' Delagente then prescribed an additional 30-day supply of Oxycontin and a 25-day supply of Percocet, the complaint alleges. Another time, he texted a patient that he was sending the patient's prescription on a different day than a similar prescription to the patient's mother 'to not draw any suspicion.'  The complaint also alleged that Delagente didn't monitor whether his patients were becoming addicted to the painkillers, and prescribed the drugs to people he knew were already addicted.    In one instance, an employee at his practice texted Delagente that a patient had gotten a babysitter and driven a long distance to get to the medical office, but had been unable to see a doctor. Delagente responded: 'Oh well … C’est la vie! Lol … He can wait for his oral heroin another day. Lol.'  'Dr. Delagente sold his ethics, his medical license, and his moral compass,' FBI-Newark Special Agent in Charge Gregory Ehrie said. According to the complaint, Delagente, who in conversations likened himself to the notorious Mexican drug trafficker Joaquin 'El Chapo' Guzman, prescribed controlled substances without ever seeing the patient for a medical visit or even discussing with the patient the medical need for the prescription. He allowed patients to ask him for controlled substances via text message and would write a prescription for patients that he would leave at the front desk, without requiring an office visit or consultation of any kind. He also prescribed the dangerous drug combination known as the 'Holy Trinity,' comprised of opioids, benzodiazepines and muscle relaxers.      One patient texted Delagente that the patient 'probably can’t stop the pk’s,' referring to painkillers. The patient told Delagente that the patient 'would need a plan to stop…not cold turkey.'  A few days later, when the patient was having trouble obtaining pain medication, the patient wrote to Delagente that 'If I go 4 days without [painkillers] I am in huge trouble.' In response, Delagente wrote 'I will leave you a short supply RX [prescription] at the front to pick up.'  Delagente then wrote the patient a prescription for 120 tablets of 30-milligram oxycodone for 30 days. Delagente at one point told this patient: 'I’m literally sticking my neck out and can lose my medical license or [be] arrested for what I just did.' Delagente also was charged with altering medical records of patients who received painkiller prescriptions from him after law enforcement officials had subpoenaed the documents in April 2019. When he is sentenced on June 10, Delagente faces a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and a $1million fine on each of the distribution of controlled dangerous substances charges, and up to 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine on the record falsification count.   
