{ By Ciara Farmer For Mailonline   Published:  14:50, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8032305/Love-Islands-Connor-Durman-apologises-recreational-drug-use.html }
Love Island star Connor Durman has been forced to apologise for using drugs.  In images taken during his time living in Australia, the coffee bean salesman, 25, is seen sitting shirtless in front of a table with white powder carefully arranged into lines in front of him.  A representative for the star told MailOnline: 'Connor is very embarrassed that the picture has been made public as it was taken at a particularly low point in his life by someone he believed he could trust...  'But he takes full responsibility for his actions, and is sorry for any distress it may cause his friends and family.  'He is trying to put all this behind him and move forward with his life.' The image of Connor was obtained by The Sun, and a source told the publication: 'Connor was living in Australia last year and recreational drugs were sadly used.  'One of the reasons he left Australia and came back to the UK to be with his family is because he realised his life was spiralling out of control. He regrets his past and is now moving forward with his life. He is sorry.'   Connor, from Brighton, was paired with Rochelle Humes' sister Sophie Piper during his short-lived stint on the show and they continued their romance on the outside.   Earlier this month the Islander was accused of sending offensive messages to his ex-girlfriend after she told him she'd bedded black men after their split.  Connor was with Stevie-Leigh Pich for four years, with the couple parting ways a few months before the recent series of Love Island. Friends claimed the coffee bean salesman bombarded Miss Pich with abusive text messages, branding her a 'sl**' and a sl**'. The texts also see him describe the make-up artist sleeping with black men as 'rank', adding 'it makes me sick', according to The Sun. Friends of the make-up artist told the newspaper: 'It's disgusting that he can send messages like that given who he's paired up with on the show. 'He kept telling Stevie that it made him sick that she'd seen the guy and was really nasty.'  Connor then told his ex that 'liking black boys' is 'such a put off', the paper reported.  He has now apologised to Sophie for the racist comments to his ex, admitting that he messed up during a heartfelt chat.  The medical PA has accepted the coffee bean salesman's apology as the pair's relationship 'gets serious' since leaving the villa. A source told The Sun Online: 'He explained himself and was genuinely sorry, as it was said in anger over his relationship breaking down. 'If he's honest, he was bitter at the time and it was in the heat of the moment. Sophie believes him and won't punish him for his past.' The insider continued: 'Connor and Sophie have spent so much time together since leaving the villa and things are going from strength to strength between them.'    Connor's representative confirmed to MailOnline the report is accurate. MailOnline has contacted Sophie Piper's representatives for comment.  Sophie had her fair share of drama during her South African stay, most notably fending off the advances of Mike Boateng, 24, after love rival Connor was booted off the island. Eventually, the brunette beauty was reunited with Connor on ITV2's Love Island Aftersun, and they have had a blossoming romance ever since. 
