{ By Kristy Johnson For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  14:41, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8032197/Zendaya-career-Vogue-Australias-March-issue.html }
She's gone from Disney Channel alum to bonafide actress at just 23 years of age. But in her cover story for Vogue Australia's March issue, Zendaya said that she's just at the beginning of her career, and views her 'big accomplishments' as 'very minor'.  'I guess I look back and I'm proud of what I have been able to do, but I always look at things like [it's just] the beginning, which is sometimes a blessing and a curse,' she explained.    'Because even if I have big accomplishments, they're very minor to me. It's just that I have more to do. I guess that's what makes you not be too full of yourself,' she continued.    And while she's focused on the year ahead, the Euphoria actress admitted to feeling pressure in following the right path in Hollywood.  'I think I have always felt a lot of pressure to make the right move, take the right steps,' she said. 'This year is about getting better; it's not necessarily about the moves.'    The comments run alongside a cover image that sees Zendaya posing on the floor of a bedroom.  She sports a soft pink frock with a cut-out detail that offers a glimpse of her abs, teamed with red fishnet stockings and black strappy heels. Her brunette locks frame her face and she gazes intently at the camera. While an inside shot sees Zendaya laying across a bed, holding onto the heel of her yellow heel with one hand. She dons an all-blue ensemble, including opaque tights, and looks deep in thought. Zendaya starred on the Disney Channel sitcom Shake It Up from 2010 to 2013. She went on to land roles in films including 2017's The Greatest Showman and 2019's Spider-Man: Far from Home. In 2019, she debuted as Rue Bennett, a 17-year-old recovering drug addict struggling to find her place in the world, in HBO's controversial drama series Euphoria. Euphoria follows a group of high school students through their experiences of sex, drugs, friendships, love and trauma.  
