{ By Zoe Zaczek For Daily Mail Australia and Australian Associated Press   Published:  13:17, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8032059/Death-doctor-reveals-really-like-inside-Australian-suicide-clinics.html }
A doctor who has witnessed 13 people end their lives under Victoria's voluntary assisted dying laws says patients never flinch when taking their final drink.  The state's Voluntary Assisted Dying Review Board confirmed there were 52 deaths under the scheme between June and December last year, in a report released on Wednesday.  Nine of those died using medication administered by a practitioner, while 43 administered medication themselves. Medication has been dispensed for 66 people.  Oncologist Cameron McLaren said all patients he observed were so confident in their decision they were not fazed by taking the cocktail of drugs.   'The atmosphere has been very peaceful. It's been a real ­moment of closure for the families to say goodbye,' he told The Weekend Australian. 'I'm still surprised by how I've never seen a person flinch about picking up or taking the drink. They are so committed to it.' Dr McLaren administered fatal drugs through intravenous ­injection on three occasions. He was also in the room an additional 10 times when a person drank a dose of Pentobarbital to end their life. Dr McLaren, who has always been a supporter of an individual's choice to voluntary assisted dying, said he doesn't like to see people suffering.  'I grew up with animals and we always did the humane thing for them, but we didn't do it for ­humans,' he explained.   Victorian Health Minister Jenny Mikakos says there has been 'strong demand' to access the scheme, even with its strict eligibility criteria. Voluntary Assisted Dying Review Board chair and former Supreme Court justice Betty King said some family members of those who chose to die have not agreed with their decision, but supported them nonetheless. Despite the trauma of watching their loved one die, they largely had positive reflections on the experience. 'The feedback has been predominantly about how peaceful it was,' Ms King told reporters. Ms King said she had seen no evidence of children or others pressuring their loved one to access the scheme, an issue that concerned some parliamentarians when the legislation was debated in 2017. 'I have not seen - and I have been looking, believe me, I have seen no indication of any type of coercion,' Ms King said. Voluntary euthanasia became legal in Australia for the first time in more than two decades last year. Terminally ill Victorians who meet 68 criteria are be able to ask their doctor for access to a lethal concoction of drug.  An independent review board and the coroner will keep track and monitor all deaths under the scheme.  In December 2019, Western Australia voted to legalise voluntary assisted dying. The scheme expected to be implemented in 18 months.  But the board's report states they are worried about the impact of a 2005 federal law which makes it a crime, punishable by a fine, for people to incite or counsel someone into suicide using a carriage service. The law prevents doctors from consulting with people seeking voluntary dying through standard telehealth channels, the board's report says. Terminally ill adults need two medical professionals to sign off on their application, and the Victorian government may help pay for doctors or applicants to travel for face-to-face meetings. But Ms Mikakos says the federal government needs to consider the unintended consequences their legislation could potentially have, particularly now that WA has passed its own assisted dying laws. 'It is time now for them to reconsider their legislation, and we certainly hope that they'll take this issue very seriously,' she said. A total of 136 people began assessment for the scheme, but not all were able to proceed. There were 19 permit applications withdrawn, in some cases because people had died by other means or due to an administrative error. A total of 70 people were approved for a permit to die by self-administering medication, while 11 were approved to have the medication administered by a practitioner. Lifeline - 13 11 14 beyondblue - 1300 22 4636   
