{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  02:59, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8011345/Cup-Aussies-winning-Adam-Scott.html }
Adam Scott credits the recent thrilling home Presidents Cup contest for a record-setting start to 2020 by Australians on the US PGA Tour. Scott's two-stroke victory in the Genesis Invitational in Los Angeles was the third win for an Aussie in seven tournaments played this year, following Cameron Smith's Sony Open win in Hawaii and Marc Leishman's triumph at Torrey Pines in California. It is the fastest Australians have accumulated three wins in a calendar year, overtaking the 2005 season when Stuart Appleby, Scott and Geoff Ogilvy had each won a US tour title by February 27. A big reason, Scott says, is that he, Leishman and Smith were all involved in the white-hot competition of the biennial Presidents Cup clash with the United States at Royal Melbourne in early December. Although their International team came up just short of a drought-breaking win, losing 6-14 to Tiger Woods-led Team USA, Scott believes the global competition can elevate a golfer to another level. "I think it's something that came about from that Presidents Cup and it's not surprising," Scott said. "I've seen it before with some guys off the back of an incredible Presidents Cup experience. "When there's pressure out on the golf course and guys really learn and elevate their games, they can put that into practice the next time they're in a pressure situation." Scott credits winning three points for Gary Player's Internationals at the 2003 Presidents Cup in South Africa for kick-starting his career. He won the elite Players Championship in March 2004 and never looked back. "I know I did that back in 2003, when we played in December in South Africa and I remember leading the Players Championship going into Sunday but using that pressure situation playing with Ernie (Els) as a way to know that I can handle it," Scott said. Scott predicted countryman Jason Day, who withdrew from the Presidents Cup injured, may win soon for his first US Tour title in 20 months. Former world No.1 Day finished fourth at the Pebble Beach Pro-Am two weeks ago. "It was certainly motivation for me seeing Cam and Marc win (in January) so I wanted to come out and make sure I'm not the one lagging behind, so over to you, Jason," he joked. Adding to a wonderful start to 2020, Australian victories on major tours this year also include Lucas Herbert winning the European Tour's elite Dubai Desert Classic and Wade Ormsby winning the Asian Tour's Hong Kong Open. 
