{ By Harry Wise For This Is Money    Published:  15:00, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-8004051/Fall-Nissans-profits-compounds-bad-news-car-giant-damaged-coronavirus-outbreak.html }
Troubles at car giant Nissan have continued to worsen as the Japanese firm recorded a massive fall in its profits. Operating profits at the automotive business, which has a major factory in Sunderland, were 82.7 per cent lower in the third quarter of the financial year at 54.3billion yen, compared to 313.7billion yen in the same period the previous year. It now forecasts full-year operating profits to be 43 per cent lower for the financial year due to declining sales in all markets, with big falls in the USA and Europe.  Nissan's partner company Renault posted a loss of €141 million euros ($153 million) for the group share of net income, in part as a result of charges linked to some of its Chinese joint ventures. The contribution from Nissan, in which Renault has a 43 per cent stake, also fell and it was hit by a French deferred tax charge. Nissan's home market of Japan experienced a more modest sales drop of 6.9 per cent, which the company attributed to a new consumption tax introduced by the government and damage from typhoons.  The car-maker's sharply waning earnings power has already prompted plans to slash jobs, close manufacturing sites and drop product offerings, sources have said, as the automaker steps back from an aggressive pursuit of market share championed by its controversial former boss Carlos Ghosn. The Lebanese businessman is being sued for $90million by his former company over allegations he engaged in financial misconduct and fraud while he was in charge.  Ghosn stringently denies accusations he underreported his income and misused Nissan's assets. Arrested in Japan in 2018, the businessman managed to skip bail and flee the country in December.  He is widely credited with rescuing Nissan from bankruptcy and earned the nicknames 'Mr Fix-It' and 'Le Cost-Killer' for his reputation for pursuing aggressive downsizing plans that closed unprofitable car plants and created a much leaner production system. Such was his reputation that he was the subject of Japanese comic books and Fortune Magazine's Asian edition awarded him the 'Man of the Year' title.  Makoto Uchida, Nissan's new CEO and its third since September, told reporters: 'We are making progress, but sales volumes have been weak so we need to do more restructuring than initially planned,'  Uchida added that the company's financial position would continue to be tough in the next business year as it would take time to repair profitability in the United States, its No. 2 market. Nissan now expects operating income of 85billion yen ($775million) for the year to March.  The new forecast does not take the impact of the coronavirus into account though, which is expected to have a significant financial effect on Nissan. It has now temporarily shut numerous car plants in Asia due to shortages of supply parts.  The move follows other car companies such as Hyundai and Volkswagen who have suspended production on the continent due to health concerns.  Nissan will reopen the three factories on 17 February. Another two plants, one of which is based in the epicentre of the outbreak in Hubei Province, will not restart until 20 February. Three domestic factories will also be closed throughout the whole of February over parts and logistics issues. Total industry volume decreased 10.7 per cent on a full-year calendar basis, while the firm blamed an 'aged product portfolio' for its US sales slumping by 9.1 per cent to 980,000 units.   It now expects total car sales for the financial year to be 3.6 per cent down on its November forecast at 5.05 million vehicles. Nissan declared: 'Despite having made steady progress in its business transformation and profit recovery measures, due to weak performance and a slowdown in total industry volume the company has revised its full-year guidance.'  No dividend will be paid for the second half and that its annual dividend would be 10 yen per share, a steep drop from the 57 yen paid a year earlier.  Shares in Nissan slid to their lowest level in a decade today, falling by 9.6 per cent to 514p.   
