USA
{ By Connie Rusk For Mailonline   Published:  09:20, 14 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8003503/Miley-Cyrus-shows-toned-abs-backstage-shots-Marc-Jacobs-NYFW-show.html }
Miley Cyrus has shared behind-the-scenes shots from Marc Jacobs' New York Fashion Week show on Instagram on Thursday.  The singer, 27, took to the catwalk on Wednesday to showcase the designer's Autumn/ Winter 2020 collection.  Miley looked incredible in a tiny back crop top and suit trousers as Marc and the team dressed her for the runway.  The Wrecking Ball hitmaker's taut abs were on display in the bralet and black tailored trousers.  Marc added a racy element to Miley's outfit with long leather gloves, while her blonde hair was styled in a sleek straight look.  While assistants helped the singer get into her patent court shoes, the designer held up a vibrant oversized zebra print coat for Miley to slip into.  Miley was joined on the runway by some of the leading young models, including Gigi Hadid, 24, her sister Bella Hadid, 23, and Kaia Gerber, 18. After a successful stroll down the catwalk, Miley emerged in a similarly revealing outfit to her runway look. Instead of a black bra, she wore a white bra with an attached black and white striped scarf that wrapped around her neck. The Party In The USA singer stuck with a slimmer pair of black slacks this time around, and she added pointy scarlet boots for extra flair.   Her professional collaborations with Marc include a 2014 ad campaign and a charity hoodie they released together last year for Planned Parenthood. Miley's New York Fashion Week show comes after the singer risked a very awkward run-in with her ex-husband Liam Hemsworth as they attended the same WME pre-Oscar bash in Los Angeles on Friday night The singer and Hunger Games star, 30, were seen arriving and leaving the star-studded event separately.   It comes after Liam, who is now dating 21-year-old model Gabriella Brooks, and Miley has been in a relationship with Cody Simpson since October, finalised their divorce in January. The pair ended their eight month marriage on Tuesday 28 January, with a judge approving their divorce papers.  
