{ By Rachel Sharp For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:53, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8000101/School-bus-driver-drives-home-city-parks-abandons-kids-board.html }
A bus full of school kids found themselves taking a detour on their way home when the driver stopped dropping them off at their homes and instead drove to her own home in another city, parked up and abandoned them on board.  The female driver was driving with a suspended license when she took the 14 students from Avon Avenue School to the Vailsburg area of Newark, New Jersey, on February 6.    The driver, who was working for Mercy USA at the time, had begun on the normal route dropping some children off at their homes before she decided to abandon the route and head to her own home instead near Stuyvesant Avenue and Abinger Place. On arrival, she allegedly got off the bus and went into her house, telling the bus attendant, 'You gonna have to handle these kids yourself'.  One outraged mother told Eyewitness News that she was filled with panic when her daughter with special needs didn't arrive home at the usual time.   'I was cleaning up, getting my daughter's food ready for dinner and I realized it was four o'clock and she wasn't home,' Angele Easterling said.  Amber Easterling, 11, was on the bus when the driver went rogue. She said the driver 'told the bus attendant that you gonna have to handle these kids yourself'.  The experience has left Amber's mother afraid to let her take the bus to school. 'I'm still sick on the stomach because right now I'm not letting my daughter take the bus to school,' she said.  'I’m just mad about it because, you know, there are a lot of things happening out here on the street, kids getting missing.'  Newark police found the missing bus around 4:30pm near Stuyvesant Avenue and Abinger Place after they responded to reports it had missed several designated stops.  Officers confirmed that 14 children were found on board and unharmed. The children were taken to a nearby precinct for their parents to pick them up. Newark Public Schools released a statement saying it had terminated its contract with Mercy USA.   It said: 'The District has removed this vendor from transporting students to Avon Avenue School and is in the process of determining next steps regarding future services. In addition, because established guidelines were not adhered to, the District has also imposed liquated financial damages for this infraction. This continues to be an active investigation.' A meeting was held Wednesday at Avon Avenue School for concerned parents to discuss the incident with Child Protective Services.  The bus driver, who has not been named, was issued a summons for driving with a suspended license.  Police said she was reportedly unfamiliar with the route. 
