USA
{ By Brian Marks For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:53, 13 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7997937/Justin-Timberlake-bending-backwards-strengthen-marriage-Jessica-Biel.html }
He was seen getting uncomfortably close to his co-star Alisha Wainwright while filming his upcoming sports drama Palmer. Since then, Justin Timberlake has been 'bending over backwards' to repair his marriage to Jessica Biel, 37, according to Us Weekly. The 39-year-old singer and actor has reportedly been sending her multiple texts and expensive items to show he cares. 'He's bending over backwards to get Jessica to forgive him and to make sure he's there for her and Silas,' a source said, referring to their four-year-old son. Justin was photographed holding hands with Alisha in November, while apparently not wearing his wedding ring. Recently, the Wonder Wheel star has been pulling out all the stops to patch up his marriage, including treating Jessica with 'flowers, massages and weekend getaways,' according to the insider. 'He's been sending Jessica lots of sweet texts and telling her she's the hottest wife and mom in the world,' revealed a second source. Justin made a public appearance earlier this month to support his wife at the third season premiere of her USA series The Sinner, though he might have accompanied her regardless of his recent scandal. Jessica received some of the strongest reviews of her career for his starring role in the first season of the crime anthology series. She also executive produced the drama, which has starred Bill Pullman as a weary detective in each season. The rift between her and her husband began in November, when Justin was spotted getting cozy with Alisha after hours at a bar in New Orleans. The two were glimpsed sitting on the balcony of a bar together while Justin worked on a drink. 'At one stage he grabbed her hand and rested it on his knee. She then gently started stroking his leg,' a witness told The Sun at the time. 'Then he clutched her hand with both of his and was playing with her hands.' The grainy photos from that night appeared to show Justin sans his wedding ring. In December, the pop star shared a written apology to Instagram in which he said he 'displayed a strong lapse in judgement [sic],' which he attributed to alcohol, though he stressed that 'nothing happened between me and my costar.' He apologized to Jessica and Silas for 'putting them through such an embarrassing situation.' The public apology was reportedly written and posted at Jessica's request.  Though he mentioned Palmer at the end of his note, Justin never wrote Alisha's name, and so far he has opted not to apologize to the younger actress for his drunken actions and the ensuing scandal. The two have made a public show of reconciliation, with both posting sweet photos and comments about each other. However, Us Weekly reported last month that Jessica was still upset with Justin and felt he hadn't lived up to promises to be 'more involved with the family.' 'He has been making big promises and not sticking to them as much as she thinks he can and should,' a source said. 'He promised that he would be more involved with their family and she doesn't feel like he's doing that.' Another insider disputed the claim, however: 'Jessica and Justin are not in a tense place at all.'  
