USA
{ By Roxy Simons For Mailonline   Published:  16:57, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7996089/The-French-Dispatch-Tilda-Swinton-Timoth-e-Chalamet-star-Wes-Andersons-star-studded-film.html }
The first trailer for Wes Anderson's The French Dispatch was released on Wednesday. Starring a slew of A-list stars, the anthology film is the 50-year-old auteur's love letter to journalists and proves to be a delightfully quirky return to the silver screen.  Based on the writings of The New Yorker, the film features Timothée Chalamet as a rebel with a cause, as well as several Anderson mainstays including Tilda Swinton, Bill Murray, Owen Wilson, and Adrien Brody. Set in a fictional 20th-century French city and follows the development of a series of stories published in the titular magazine, and it opens with editor Arthur Howitzer Jr. (Bill Murray) on the paper's last day. A voiceover explaining the way the origins of the publication explains: 'It began as a holiday, eager to escape the bright future on the great plains Arthur Howitzer Jr. transformed the series of travelogue columns into The French Dispatch. 'A factual weekly report on the subjects of world politics, the arts high and low and world stories of human interest.  'He assembled a team of the best expatriate journalists of his time: Berensen (Swinton), Salzerac (Wilson), Krementz (Frances McDormand), Roebuck Wright (Jeffrey Wright), these were his people.' Filmed in both colour and black-and-white, the trailer features a series of montages from the articles The Concrete Masterpiece, Revisions to a Manifesto, and The Private Dining Room of the Police Commissioner. One story sees Tilda's character examine the subject of Moses Rosenthaler, an incarcerated artist who was 'the loudest voice of his rowdy generation' and became a sensation with his painting of muse, and prison guard, Simone (Léa Seydoux). Keen to purchase his latest piece 'Simone naked cell block j hobby room', Brody's art dealer Julien Cadazio approaches Rosenthaler to make the exchange, but the artist refuses to budge as he claims 'it's not for sale.' The second story, meanwhile, follows McDormand's Krementz as she write an article about Timothée's student revolutionary Zeffirelli, and his bid to overthrow an unjust government. Narrating the scenes, she said: 'The kids did this, obliterated a thousand years of republic authority in less than a fortnight. What do they want, freedom, full stop.' An amusing exchange between the journalist and rebel saw the former tear open the bath curtain on the latter, who squeals and said 'I'm naked Mrs Krementz,' to which she responded matter-of-factly 'I can see that.' The final story sees food critic Wright investigate the chef responsible for police cooking, as he gushes that 'the aromas of the kitchen cast a spell.' But things aren't set to go well for long, as the peace is 'mortally broken' when a phone call from Edward Norton's as-yet-unnamed character inform Mathieu Amalric's police officer that he has kidnapped the man's son. Saoirse Ronan also appears briefly in the trailer sporting a curly mane of golden hair, and she is seen telling a young boy to 'shut up'. The trailer closes back where it began, in the offices of The French Dispatch, as a young office worker informs Howitzer Jr. that the reporters have 'one hour to press.' Clearly agitated, the editor informs the young man that he was 'fired' for giving him the message, before adding: 'Don't cry in my office.' Featuring many of Anderson's stunning visuals and regular collaborator Robert Yeoman's signature cinematography, the film is sure to delight fans of the filmmaker.  The French Dispatch is set to be released across the USA on July 24, and will then be screened in the UK on August 28, 2020. 
