{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  13:07, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7995625/Todays-Birthday-13-2.html }
Today's Birthday, February 13: Jerry Springer, TV presenter (1944 - ) In 2019 TV show host Jerry Springer rounded out 30 years on the small screen when his confrontational talk show came to an end. But the end of The Jerry Springer Show doesn't mean the end of his TV career. The 75-year-old has just made his debut in a brand new show titled Judge Jerry. The show will see Springer sit as the judge in a small claims court adjudicating over small misdemeanour cases from around the USA. Gerald Norman Springer was born in Highgate Station on the London Underground in 1944, while Germans bombed the city in World War II. His parents moved to the United States in 1949, where he studied at Tulane University and achieved a Juris Doctorate from Northwestern University. Eventually he became a political campaign adviser to Robert F Kennedy and after the political leader's assassination in 1968, decided to have a run himself in 1970. He lost the race for a seat in congress for Ohio to an incumbent Republican, but in an upset for the seat managed to take 45 per cent of the vote in a Republican district. In 1971 he was elected to the Cincinnati council, where the trained lawyer became a popular and outspoken critic of the Vietnam war. But Springer came undone after he paid for a prostitute using a cheque and a police investigation ensued. The disgraced council member managed to turn it around to become the beloved mayor of Cincinnati. After a few years in the role and a failed run for governor, he took to TV. Within a few years he had become Cincinnati's most popular news anchor and he decided to start his own political talk show. But the ratings started to falter and the once respected lawyer, politician and journalist took a headfirst dive into the salacious world of The Jerry Springer Show. The show promoted conflict and often pit everyday people against each other, with the most common confrontation being over adulterous partners. 
