USA
{ By Geoff Earle, Deputy U.s. Political Editor For Dailymail.com   Published:  02:33, 12 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7993857/Trump-wins-New-Hampshires-Republican-primary.html }
President Donald Trump walked away with the win in Republican primary in New Hampshire Tuesday  – although opposition candidate William Weld registered a much stronger showing than he did in Iowa. Trump was leading with 86 per cent of the vote with almost a third of the vote in. Former Massachusetts Gov. William Weld, who was campaigning across the state for months, was below 10 per cent of the vote. It was the second easy victory for the president in as many weeks. In Iowa he won with 97 per cent of the vote, trouncing Weld and former GOP Rep. Joe Walsh, who ended his bid last week. Trump doesn't even have to worry about a primary in a group of states that includes South Carolina,  Nevada, Arizona, Kansas and others where party leaders eliminated the primary altogether. Trump was already in a very strong position within the party, but the nixed primaries deprive 'never Trumpers' the chance to air their case.  He came to the state for a Manchester rally that drew thousands Monday night, but that was in part designed to sow discord in Democratic ranks (he called for new registrants to back Sen. Bernie Sanders or whichever candidate was weakest), while also padding his mailing list and feeding his base of support. Trump also prevailed in New Hampshire in 2016, where he trounced a divided field on his way to the White House. But Democrat Hillary Clinton defeated him in November 2016 in a state where her husband staged his famous political comeback.  Weld has blasted Trump on the campaign trail. He wrote in the Manchester Union Leader Sunday before his defeat: 'Just as he has done throughout his business career and personal life, Donald Trump bullied his way through being only the third President in history to be impeached. He was not removed from office by the Senate — not because he was found “not guilty”, but because he threatened, stonewalled and played the process.' He predicted voters would remove Trump in November.  
