USA
{ By Stacy Liberatore For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:59, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sciencetech/article-7991927/Joe-Biden-twitter-bot-created-Daily-pokes-fun-former-VPs-bizarre-insults.html }
Former Vice President Joe Biden has come under fire this week for calling a voter a 'lying dog-face pony soldier' during a question and answer session in New Hampshire. The odd line not only insulted 21-year-old Madison Moore, who was on the recipient end of the comment, but has also inspired a new Twitter Bot online. The team at 'The Daily Show' released the tool today that is specifically designed to deliver personal insults to users who tweet at the bot. The comments, which sound like they came directly from the former vice president, range from calling users a 'rinky-dinkn' toad licker' to 'a scone-eating hippie armpit'. Scroll down for video  During an appearance Sunday in New Hampshire, Biden was asked about his poor showing earlier in the week during the Iowa caucus fiasco by Moore. He replied by asking if she had ever attended a caucus, and when she said 'yes', he responded 'No you haven't! You're a lying, dog-faced pony soldier.' Don't feel bad, we have no idea what that means either. And it may not be a surprise that 'The Daily Show' host, Trevor Noah, picked the story right up. Noah noted that although Biden said the quote came from a John Wayne movie, neither he nor his campaign has specified which film. Biden's spokespeople said the line was taken from a scene in a John Wayne movie, where a Native American chief refers to Wayne as a 'lying, dog-faced pony soldier.' Although the insult on Sunday may have caused a stir, Biden had used the same phrase and attributed it to a John Wayne movie. At a 2018 campaign event for Heidi Heitkamp, Biden said of her opponent Kevin Cramer: 'As my brother who loves to use lines from movies, from John Wayne movies, there's a line in a movie, a John Wayne movie where an Indian chief turns to John Wayne and says, 'This is a lying, dog-faced pony soldier.'' It appears Biden may have misquoted John Wayne as it seems he may have been referring to the 1952 Tyrone Power film 'Pony Soldier', which uses the phrase throughout. But to bring even more attention to this insult and other off-the-cuff commentary from the forever VP, Noah and his team have created a Joe Biden Insult Bot. 'Tweet anything at me Jack,' the caption on the Twitter page reads. 'I'll show you where to put it, ya two-timing eggman'. And the location for the bot is 'Malarkytown, USA'. So far the page has over 4,728 followers and is only following three users – 'The Daily Show', 'John Wayne Official' and 'Joe Biden' himself. Some of the bots insults are very colorful. One is at user, 'dsspivak': 'That's some real potato skin, ya potato-peelin' Muppet'. Another insult was sent to 'chaddziengel': 'Easy on the mustard, ya pickadillin' pooper scooper'. And one at 'LaDolceRica': 'Tell it to the judge, you scone-eating hippie armpit'.   
