{ By Luke Augustus for MailOnline    Published:  17:24, 11 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/olympics-2020/article-7991929/LeBron-James-unsure-play-Tokyo-2020-Olympics.html }
LeBron James may have two Olympic gold medals to his name already but the NBA superstar has cast doubt about whether or not he wishes to compete for a hat-trick of titles. James' heavily-decorated career includes two golds he won with Team USA at the 2008 and 2012 Games in Beijing and London. On Monday, the 35-year-old was named among 44 players by USA Basketball as finalists for the squad that will play in Tokyo later this year. However, James - who also won Olympic bronze in Athens 2004 - says he is unsure if he will accept a spot on the 12-man roster come June. The three-time NBA champion has played in 68 games for the USA and has said several times over the past year or so that he is thinking about another Olympics - after sitting out the 2016 Rio Games for a variety of reasons. Part of the interest in participating this summer is to have the chance to play for USA head coach Gregg Popovich of the San Antonio Spurs. 'My name is in the hat, and It's always predicated on, one, my body, how my body's feeling at the end of the season. I hope to make it a long play-off run,' he said after the Los Angeles Lakers' 125-100 win over the Phoenix Suns on Monday night. 'Then where my mind is, and then where my family's head is. So there's a lot of factors, but my name is in the hat.' The 44-man pool includes 19 players who have won a total of 31 gold medals in either Olympic or World Cup competition for the Americans - including nine players who captured the Olympic title for USA Basketball in Rio de Janeiro four years ago. 'I've always maintained that equity is important,' USA Basketball managing director Jerry Colangelo told The Associated Press. 'And you earn equity by participating. So, we think they've earned the right to be named to the overall roster for USA Basketball. It's pretty elite. It's a tremendous pot and the good news is they've all said they want to play.' There will be no try-outs. USA Basketball will pare the list down to a 12-person Olympic team by early June, those decisions to be made by a selection committee - and to be based in part on player availability and health. Training camp will start in early July, potentially as little as two weeks after the end of the NBA Finals. The Olympics start July 24.    
