{ By Ciara Farmer For Mailonline   Published:  13:30, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8042379/Holly-Willoughby-Phillip-Schofield-attempt-beat-world-record-PANCAKE-FLIPPING.html }
They are always up to fun and frolics on the show.  And Holly Willoughby and Phillip Schofield were once again getting playful on Tuesday's This Morning as they departed the ITV studios to flip pancakes.  In a bid to beat the world record for pancake flipping, the duo were tossing pancakes from a pan beside a vast measuring tape before later tucking in to the sweet treats which were whisked up by Ainsley Harriott.  Holly and Phil were working hard alongside Ainsley outside and in front of the huge measurement which was mapping out the height.  The trio were attempting to beat the world record, which is listed as: 'The highest pancake toss measured 9.47 m (31 ft 1 in) and was achieved by Dominic Cuzzacrea (USA) at Walden Galleria Mall in Cheektowaga, New York, USA, on 13 November 2010. Dominic beat his own previous record by 30 cm (11.8 in).' It was every man for himself during the competition, where pancakes were flying all through the air and nearly hitting the participants.  Holly was repeatedly grumbling about her pancakes flying backward while the boys were working hard in their gruelling attempt.    Ainsley was then treating the duo to some of his culinary delights, which seemed to thrill the duo in the chilly climes outside the studio. Elsewhere on the episode, Phillip was left in fits of laughter as Holly read the auto-cue wrong before they began their game of It's Behind You. Further laughter later ensued when Holly, later made a huge royal family blunder, with the star falling back on the sofa in shame leaving her co-star in hysterics. The hilarity began as the duo introduced the daily game It's Behind You, where viewers would describe an image behind the hosts, in which they have to guess the right answer and win a cash prize for the caller. But it appeared the excitement of the game got too much for Holly as she tripped over her words while reading her auto cue, and got the name of the game wrong. Phil of course found her error hilarious and burst into laughter. The game then began started off well as they won the first caller £300. However, things went downhill as another viewer described a picture of Prince Charles, giving the clue: 'the next in line for the throne.' As Phillip gave his answer some thought, Holly blurted out 'Prince Harry', forgetting that he'd recently stepped down from royal duties. She then guessed at Harry's older brother 'William' before being told she was incorrect once again. She then gave it another go as she shouted 'No I mean Harry, no George!' The star then dramatically fell back on the sofa amid her disaster as she finally spat out the right answer of 'Charles'. Holly's blunder clearly left Phil tickled as he then joked: 'You went through every member of the royal family before getting to Charles.'   
