{ By Alex Raskin Sports News Editor For Dailymail.com and Reuters   Published:  21:03, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7988393/Ex-Blue-Jays-pitcher-sues-Astros-2017-sign-stealing-scandal.html }
Ongoing fallout from the 2017 Astros cheating scandal continued Monday, as former Toronto Blue Jays pitcher Mike Bolsinger filed a civil lawsuit against the club for allegedly ending his Major League career with the help of an improper electronic sign-stealing scheme. Bolsinger is seeking unspecified damages, including $31 million in postseason bonuses Astros players accrued en route to a 2017 Worlds Series title.  He intends to share any settlement with Los Angeles-based children's charities, as well as a fund that would be created to help former players in need of financial assistance. The free agent reliever has bounced between the minor leagues and Japan since he was shelled by the Astros on August 4, 2017 at Houston's Minute Maid Park. 'In [a third of an inning], Plaintiff Bolsinger gave up 4 runs to the Defendant Astros and was immediately terminated and cut from the team never to return to Major League Baseball Again' read the filing obtained by the Daily Mail. In Los Angeles civil court, Bolsinger is accusing the Astros of negligence, unfair business practices, and deliberate interference with contractual and economic relations.   In January, an MLB investigation found that the Astros illegally stole signs with the use cameras and other devices in 2017, when they won the World Series, as well as the following season. General manager Jeff Luhnow and manager A.J. Hinch were each handed one-year suspensions by commissioner Rob Manfred after the probe was completed on January 13, and both men were fired by Astros owner Jim Crane later that day.  The Astros used a center-field monitor for real-time video of catchers' signs and subsequently banged a trash can in the dugout to alert their hitters of incoming pitches, former Houston pitcher Mike Fiers to The Athletic.  To Bolsinger, the main focus should be teaching young players that what Houston did was wrong. 'There's a message to be sent to youth out there. Especially athletes, more specifically baseball players,' Bolsinger told USA Today. 'It was awesome to (grow up and) watch game played the right way. We've kind of drifted from that. It's something we can really express to these kids: You don't have to cheat to get to where you want to go. 'This kind of stuff doesn't need to happen.' Bolsinger, who was 29 in August of 2017, was demoted after the game and has struggled find much interest among MLB teams, prompting him to sign with the Chiba Lotte Marines. 'I don't know if I've had a worse outing in my professional career,' Bolsinger said. 'I remember saying, 'It was like they knew what I was throwing. They're laying off pitches they weren't laying off before. It's like they knew what was coming.' That was the thought in my head. 'I felt like I didn't have a chance.' Despite a successful stint in Japan, and a 1.70 earned run average at the Triple-A level at the end of 2017, Bolsinger is still looking for a job with a Major League team. 'I was an older guy. They had younger guys to call up,' Bolsinger told USA Today. 'Let's say that (Astros game) doesn't happen … I probably don't get sent down. But at that point, they probably lost faith in me and were over it.' The Houston Astros' sign-stealing scheme was an elaborate procedure that extended to road games as well as home games, the Wall Street Journal reported Friday. In an extensive look into the scandal that cost Luhnow and Hinch their jobs, the Journal detailed the origins and execution of the plan the Astros front office reportedly referred to as 'Codebreaker.' Derek Vigoa, at the time a front office intern but now the Astros' senior manager for team operations, reportedly devised an Excel-based program for deciphering the signs of the opposing catcher. According to the Journal, Astros director of advance information Tom Koch-Weser maintained that Luhnow was in the know on the operation, and emails seen by MLB investigators were sent to Luhnow regarding 'Codebreaker.' Koch-Weser also stated that Luhnow would make comments such as, 'You guys Codebreaking?' while visiting the team clubhouse on road trips, but Luhnow denied knowing that the program was being used in-game. The former GM said that he thought the sign-stealing was only being done after games, which would be legal under baseball rules. The Journal reported that Astros pro scouting analysis manager Matt Hogan told MLB investigators that staffers wanted Luhnow to know of Codebreaker: 'It would have been something to show we were working and get validation of our work.' Per emails seen by MLB investigators, the Astros staffers involved in the scheme referred to their sign-stealing as 'dark arts.' 'I don't think the punishment has fit the crime,' Bolsinger told USA Today. 'And let's be honest, all these guys are going to get managing jobs again. … Guys like us that were cheated? I don't have a job. I'm not playing.'  
