{ By Harry Wise For This Is Money    Published:  11:47, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-7986453/Over-half-UK-workers-say-zero-influence-firm.html }
A majority of British employees say they have no influence in shaping the direction of their organisation, a new study finds. Many British workers also have little to no contact with their firm's top boss, the chief executive officer, and a majority believe that the management is poor at seeking employees' views. Software firm Unit4 made the findings in a survey of over 1,800 employees in seven countries, including the UK, USA and Norway.  The Decision-Making for the Future Business report discovered that 57 per cent of UK workers felt they have no say in the direction of their organisation and only a tenth of non-managers worldwide felt comfortable giving criticism of the direction of their institution.  UK chief executives are the most distant in terms of employee engagement, with 36 per cent of their employees stating they have never met them and one in ten saying they do not trust them. Unit4's chief Mike Ettling believes the lack of engagement between bosses and employees can have an adverse effect on an organisation's financial performance.  He writes: 'Today we really have a new board member in companies across the world - the chief elusive officer, the business leader who has not once engaged with their employees or sought to empower them to make decisions that impact the future of their organisation. This must change, and it must change fast. 'When CEOs are disconnected from their workforce, employees can be left feeling disengaged which can lead to much lower productivity at work and ultimately impact the bottom-line.  The report states that the traditional management structure of companies and organisations is outdated and calls for a more democratised and egalitarian workplace where employees can have a greater say in the running of organisations. It says: 'This all matters because in today's knowledge-based economy, it's almost impossible – and far from desirable – to monitor or micro-manage your employees' every move.  'Managers need to have trust in their autonomy, experience and initiative to work independently, to the best of their ability. And by starting from the ground up and focusing on people at work we can address the critical issue of productivity.' Technology can facilitate the desire for greater autonomy among employees. So can greater openness to new ideas and a process of immediate feedback.   Unit4's report found that Norway was the best country for engagement with employees, with only a third of people there saying they had no say in their organisation's future.  By contrast, 50 per cent of all workers worldwide said they had zero influence and ten per cent of non-managers claimed they felt comfortable giving critical views over their organisation's direction. Ettling says: 'A rigid, hierarchical business structure is simply no longer suitable for today's workforce and CEOs need to change in order to lead more effectively. 'This old-fashioned management mindset is no longer fit for today's business and must be rejected in order to encourage the best asset a company has, its people.'  
