{ By Ali Daher For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  09:51, 10 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7986187/Olivia-Newton-John-reveals-came-Australia-amid-bushfire-crisis.html }
She may live in the USA, but Olivia Newton-John still calls Australia home. In an interview with TV WEEK on Monday, the 71-year-old beloved performer said she couldn't miss the opportunity to give back to her home country amid the bushfire crisis. 'It's so important, and I feel privileged that I'm able to help in some way. Australians are tough,' she told the publication.   The Grease star is set to perform at the Fire Fight Australia concert on Sunday, and said she 'had to come back'. Olivia went on to tell the magazine she'll also use her time Down Under to cheer on daughter Chloe Lattanzi, 34, who is currently competing on Dancing With The Stars. The iconic actress admitted that while she didn't offer Chloe any 'advice', she did encourage her to be herself. Chloe turned heads during her debut on Dancing With The Stars on Sunday night with a triumphant performance.  But no one was prouder than her mother, Olivia, who was front row on the night.  After watching Chloe and her dance partner, Gustavo Viglio, the proud mum struggled not to break down.  'I am so proud, I'm so proud and my heart is beating so fast and I'm trying not to cry,'  she told host Amanda Keller.  'She did a wonderful job - just gorgeous, just gorgeous,' she added, on the verge of tears.  Seated beside her husband, John Easterling, Olivia appeared extremely emotional, and Chloe herself was struggling not to cry.  'Can I give her a hug?' she asked, before racing over and embracing her mother in a touching moment.  Describing her achievement in appearing on the show, Chloe revealed that she'd had a bad experience on a reality show in the past. 'I wanted to be voted off every week because I was so terrified,' she said of her time on MTV's Rock the Cradle, a singing competition in which she placed third in 2008.  
