USA
{ By Carly Johnson For Dailymail.com   Published:  17:24, 9 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7984207/Margot-Robbie-Laura-Dern-Ren-e-Zellweger-attend-annual-MPTF-Night-party.html }
In anticipation of Sunday's Academy Awards ceremony, the Motion Picture & Television Fund threw their annual Night Before party in West Hollywood on Saturday evening. Stars in attendance, included 2020 MPTF host committee members Margot Robbie, Laura Dern, and Renée Zellweger, as well as a slew of other major Hollywood players who aimed to raise funds for the charitable organization.      The annual fundraising gala raked in an impressive $5.4million for MPTF's 'programs and services' benefiting industry veterans, according to PR Newswire. The programs and services offered by the Motion Picture & Television Fund, include 'financial assistance, crisis counseling, and care giving support.' The donations also directly help maintain the 'legendary retirement facility' located in Woodland Hills that is called 'home' by countless television and film veterans. The MPTF was established by silent film star Charlie Chaplin and studio executive Joseph M. Schenck back in 1921 as a way to 'provide a safety net' for those involved in the notoriously volatile entertainment industry.  The organization has been holding it's annual Night Before pre-Oscar party since 2003.  Margot Robbie led stars at the evening soiree, which took place at Fox Studios, in a strapless black Chanel dress that featured a figure hugging silhouette and button-front detailing. The 29-year-old actress nagged a Best Supporting Actress nomination at this year's Oscar's ceremony for her work in the biographical drama Bombshell.  Laura Dern, who also received a Best Supporting Actress nomination for her work in Marriage Story, turned heads in a collared see-through dress with gold detailing. Judy's Renée Zellweger beamed as she posed for a friendly photo with Little Women director Greta Gerwin and Marriage Story director Noah Baumbach.  Zelleweger is nominated in the Best Actress category for her portrayal of icon Judy Garland. Robbie, Dern, and Zelleweger were part of the event's 26 person host committee lineup made up of what the organization considered Hollywood's 'most elite talent.' Other 2020 host committee members pictured in attendance were Tom Hanks and his wife Rita Wilson, legendary director Steven Spielberg, as well as actor Antonia Banderas, Frozen's Josh Gad and actress Octavia Spencer.  Some big name committee members not pictured were: Scarlett Johansson, Jennifer Lopez, Leonardo DiCaprio, Amy Adams, Jack Black, Sir Anthony Hopkins, Rami Malek, Joe Pesci, Charize Theron, Regina King, and Florence Pugh.  Aside from the hosts, hoards of famous faces graced the MPTF step-and-repeat, including director Ron Howard and his daughter Bryce Dallas, as well as Sex And the City's Kristin Davis and Modern Family's Ty Burrell.    Since it's creation in 1921, the Motion Picture & Television Fund has raised over $90million dollars at its annual pre-award ceremony galas.   This year's Night Before party was sponsored by 'Delta Air Lines, Facebook Watch, Ford Motor Company, L'Oréal USA, Target, The Hollywood Reporter, Yahoo!, and YouTube 
