{ By Glenn Garner For Dailymail.com   Published:  02:06, 8 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7980369/Shannen-Doherty-hits-State-Farm-insurance-company-allegedly-lied-smoking-habits.html }
Shannen Doherty has alleged State Farm made false claims about her smoking habits, in a battle over repairs to her house following the 2018 Woolsey fire. The 48-year-old -who recently revealed she's been diagnosed with stage four breast cancer- also alleged the insurance company invaded her privacy by including her medical records in court filings, according to TMZ.  The 90210 alum and the property and casualty insurance provider are locked in a legal battle over damage sustained to her home during the wildfires, including from smoke.  State Farm have alleged Doherty was smoking cigarettes until March 2019 say TMZ, a claim she disputes.   She argued that she gave up the habit back in 2015, after she was diagnosed with breast cancer for the first time that March. According to TMZ, State Farm responded that Doherty 'once again distorts the facts. Rather than try this smoke damage case in the media, we will do so in a court of law.' It comes after her lawyer criticized the company for referring to her recent diagnosis as a strategy to 'garner sympathy.' The 90210 star made the announcement Tuesday on Good Morning America to get ahead of legal documents that would expose it. She said: 'I'd rather people hear it from me. I don't want it to be twisted; I don't want it to be a court document.  'I want it to be real and authentic, and I want to control the narrative. I want people to know from me.' A spokesperson for State Farm told USA Today: 'We empathize with Ms. Doherty's heath issues and wish her a full recovery.  'We strongly believe we have upheld our commitment to our customer and have paid what we owe on this claim. We are prepared to defend our position in court.' Doherty announced in April of 2017 that her cancer was in remission after several aggressive treatments.  
