USA
{ By Sameer Suri For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:03, 7 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7979013/Jennifer-Lopez-announces-RITMO-remix-music-video-Black-Eyed-Peas-J-Balvin.html }
Jennifer Lopez is fresh off her electrifying halftime performance at the Super Bowl with Shakira. And now the bombshell has a new surprise ready for her audience. The 50-year-old showed off her sculpted dancer's body in a barely-there bodysuit on Instagram on Friday - in a clip from a new music video dropping that night. She is joining a new remix of the song RITMO, a 2019 single by the Black Eyed Peas and the Colombian artist J Balvin.  The original number, which was written for the new film Bad Boys For Life, features a sample of the 1990s Corona song The Rhythm Of Life. Neon triangles feature heavily in the music video for the original version, and as seen in J-Lo's Instagram post they are back for the remix. In her new Instagram clip from the remix, J-Lo belted out: 'This is the rhythm of the night,' over dance footage of her and her collaborators.  Jennifer's blue bodysuit showed off her cleavage and her famous derriere as she balanced on a pair of thigh-high stiletto boots. The Hustlers star wore her hair in a massively long high ponytail reminiscent of Ariana Grande and popped on a pair of cat-eye shades. Accentuating her screen siren features with makeup, the sizzling sensation let her metallic coat slide beguilingly off her shoulders. On Friday morning JLo texted a still from the music video to fans and hinted: 'here's a little tease for something exciting coming today'. She was posing up against a futuristic background that featured blue, hot pink and bronze lighting in triangular patterns. Jennifer pre-empted the text by tweeting on Thursday night: 'New music news!!!!! Text me: 305-690-0379'.  For her Super Bowl Sunday gig in Miami, where both she and Shakira have owned homes, Jennifer was joined onstage by her 11-year-old daughter Emme. The young girl and her twin brother Max are Jennifer's daughters by her third ex-husband Marc Anthony, with whom she has a friendly relationship.  Emme joined Jennifer for a duet of Let's Get Loud, a song the pop diva recorded for her debut album On The 6 more than two decades ago. As Emme sang the Bruce Springsteen hit Born In The USA, Jennifer unfurled her Stars And Stripes cape to reveal a Puerto Rican flag on the other side. These days Jennifer is engaged to former New York Yankee Alex Rodriguez, who also has two children from a previous marriage. 
