{ By Nicole Douglas For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  09:26, 6 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7973095/Elton-John-performs-sold-crowd-Napier-New-Zealand.html }
He was forced to cancel his performance mid-way through last Friday, following a massive storm which drenched the crowd of thousands.  But on Thursday, Elton John was back in action and better than ever as he performed as part of his Farewell Yellow Brick Road tour in Napier, New Zealand. The 72-year-old appeared in high spirits as he took to the stage at the Mission Estate Winery in Hawke's Bay, wearing his trademark sparkling glasses as he put on a show for fans. As ever, the singer looked nothing short of sensational in a bright white blazer with a black collar, embellished with gorgeous blue flowers across the torso. He teamed the look with a pair of black fitted trousers, and accessorised with dazzling diamond earrings.  The popular musician was seen pointing in the air and smiling as he belted out hits such as I'm Still Standing, Candle In The Wind and Rocket Man.  After his New Zealand tour, the singer will jet back to Australia for a string of gigs, before heading over to the USA and Canada later in the year. His Napier gig comes shortly after he was rained off the stage in Yarra Valley, Victoria, following a devastating storm. The severe weather hit while Elton was playing his 1973 hit Funeral For A Friend, 95 minutes into his concert at Rochford Wines. Hail and rain flooded the stage, causing the concert to be cancelled 15 minutes after Elton was ushered off. Promoter Michael Chugg said the rain caused a shorted circuit in a statement. 'Unfortunately due to tonight's short but heavy downpour that occurred 95 minutes into Elton John's set resulting in damage to musical instruments and monitors on stage, the show could not continue.' The storm was surprising considering the concert kicked off with scorching 40 degree heat. As reported by The Herald Sun , Elton commented on the weather, saying on stage: 'It's f**king hot. Thank you for buying a ticket to the show. We love doing it, even though it's hot.' 
