{ By Annita Katee For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:25, 5 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7970535/Liev-Schreiber-looks-downcast-hares-hug-Taylor-Neisen-following-Ray-Donovan-axe.html }
His show, Ray Donovan, got axed abruptly after seven seasons and 10 Emmy nominations, on Tuesday.  And Liev Schreiber appeared downcast when he was spotted for the first time since the announcement on Wednesday morning.  The 52-year-old was seen with his long-term girlfriend, Taylor Neisen, 27, walking their dog in New York City.  Liev opted for a striped shirt underneath multiple navy layers for extra warmth.  He completed his casual morning  look with khaki colored trousers and a pair of sneakers.  Taylor showcased her stellar athleisure style in a pair of blue animal print tights.  The 2012 Miss South Dakota USA, kept warm in a cream colored teddy-bear coat and a grey beanie.  The pair put on some rare PDA when they were seen hugging each other while on the side walk.  Liev and Taylor's appearance comes after his long-running show, Ray Donovan, got the axe on Tuesday.   'After seven incredible seasons, Ray Donovan has concluded its run on Showtime,' the channel said in a statement.  In reference to its January 21 seventh season finale, it said, 'We are proud that the series ended amid such strong viewership and on such a powerful note.'  The continued: 'Our deepest thanks go to Liev Schreiber, Jon Voight, showrunner David Hollander and the entire cast and crew, past and present, for their dedicated work.'  Liev simply took to social media to share a monochrome shot while lifting up a glass.   He captioned the post, 'Slainte.' The word translates as 'health' in Irish and Scottish Gaelic and is used as a common way to toast a drink.   Pink took to the comments to share her dismay following the news.  'This was one of my favorite shows. Thank you for seven seasons, it should’ve been twelve. Me and hubby are gutted,' she penned.   Liev was previously in a long-term relationship with British-Australian actress, Naomi Watts.  They were never confirmed to be married and announced their separation in 2016 after 11 years together.  Together they are parents to sons, Alexander 'Sasha' Pete, 12, and Samuel Kai, 11.  Liev moved on to model Taylor Neisen in 2017 and have been together ever since.   
