{ By Jemma Carr For Mailonline   Published:  10:56, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-8034571/Parents-divided-tattoo-parlour-offering-free-designs-children-using-permanent-markers.html }
A tattoo parlour that does designs for children using multi-coloured permanent markers has divided parents with some hailing it an 'awesome idea' while others claim it’s a 'gateway drug to the real thing'.  Ink and Skin Studios in Kentucky, USA, do the creative designs in exchange for a donation to charity.  They shared pictures of their designs - which include baby Yoda, Deadpool and Anna and Elsa from Frozen - to Facebook and parents swiftly flocked to the comments to share their thoughts. Some highlighted potential health risks Sharpies pose to children's skin.  Faye Leonhardt said: 'I love this, but I understand "Sharpies" are not good for skin.'  Matthew Rhoads said: 'Not opposed to this idea but I don't know how safe sharpie is on your skin.  'Obviously there’s gonna be the “we used to draw on ourselves and we’re fine” comments but you’re fine now.  'You don't know long term effects. It’s still a cool idea maybe just use something different if possible.'  Others claimed the fake tattoos would encourage children to get real ones. Brandi Tabor said: 'Nope. Consider it the gateway drug to the real thing.'  Others disagreed and said the drawings offer a way for children to experiment with 'forbidden' topics because 'the more you shelter them the more they’ll rebel'. Melaine McQuillan said the 'tattoos' are 'a brilliant idea to educate kids who think they want' one. She added: 'Give them a fake one for a couple of weeks and get them to think about whether they want that for the rest of their lives. Far better than having them sneak out and turn up at home with a real one by a backyard tattooist.  'You can't scrub a real one off.' Scott Booth said: 'Coming from a fellow tattoo artist this is a great way to let kids express themselves with the love of art and best of all it's just sharpie, it comes off after a while, but the smiles of the kids are what matters.' Jenny Rogerson said: 'I see this as a great educational tool. Teach kids about tattoos and safety with tattoos teaches them about decisions.  'I have tattoo talk with any child who asks with permission from their parent the important decision and not to take it lightly.' 
