{ By Jack Wright For Mailonline   Published:  12:36, 5 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7968931/Astonishing-moment-skydiver-WALKS-space-lap-freefalling-skies-California.html }
An indoor skydive instructor has given new meaning to the term 'falling in style' by completing the perfect 'space lap' while skydiving. Video filmed during a freestyle skydive shows Hamish Brissett, 29, executing the clever trick on a clear day over Lake Elsinore in California, US. The talented daredevil can be seen emulating a walk in space - a so-called 'space lap' - at least four times on the trot as he hurtles towards Earth at at least 120mph.  Wearing just a helmet, blue t-shirt, tight shorts, trainers, and a rucksack, Hamish was determined to capture the stunt on camera.  Jumping around 50 times a year with his wife, the pressure was on Dallas Brissett, 26, to film good-quality video while freestyling alongside Hamish. Hamish said: 'We had done it in the past, but it's hard for the video flyer to keep it in frame. I was focused, trying to make my body movements smooth and precise.' A 'space lap' is a standard move that a judge would request in a freestyle skydiving competition, and is recognized within the sporting community.   The husband and wife daredevils have also gone wingsuiting, paragliding, and ziplining in addition to their regular freestyle skydiving.  Freestyle skydiving is a competitive discipline of skydiving where one person of a two-man team performs aerobatic manoeuvres in free fall while the other films from a close distance using a mounted camera.  The first ever international skydiving competition was held in 1990, and the sport gained in international popularity after 1995, becoming an official FAI sport in 1996.  Freefall was made famous by Deanna Kent in aerial cinematographer and skydiver Norman Kent's 1989 film From Wings Came Flight. Many enthusiasts now take to indoor freestyle skydiving, usually done with music and made possible using vertical wind tunnels.  
