USA
{ By Maxine Shen For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:28, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7965347/Disney-charges-California-school-250-screening-Lion-King-fundraiser-without-license.html }
Disney's licensing agent has hit a California elementary school PTA group with a $250 bill for showing The Lion King during a school fundraiser.   Emerson Elementary in Berkeley, California, was asked to pay $250 on January 30, after failing to obtain a screening license prior to a screening of the 2019 remake of The Lion King last November.    An email was sent by an employee at Disney's licensing agent, Movie Licensing USA, a division of SWANK Motion Pictures Inc., which enforces copyrights for Disney and other movie studios.  'Anytime movies are shown without the proper license, copyright law is violated and the entity showing the movie can be fined by the studios,' noted the email, a portion of which was tweeted out by irate school parent and Berkeley City Councilmember, Lori Droste on Friday.    According to copyright law, a licensing fee must be paid any time there's a public performance - meaning outside a home - of a movie, regardless if admission was charged. Punishment for violating this copyright can include fines of up to $250,000 or as many as five years in jail.  The $250 bill that was sent to Emerson Elementary was meant to cover the one-time showing fee that the Emerson Dad's Group - which threw the November event - was supposed to have obtained in order to legally show the movie at the fundraiser.   PTA president David Rose told KPIX that one of the dads in the group had bought the movie at Walmart and 'we just basically threw it on while the kids were playing in the auditorium.' The parents' night out fundraiser had a $15 per child admission fee - although no child would be turned away if parents couldn't pay that amount. The money would benefit the PTA's programs. In exchange, children were looked after for two hours and given pizza and healthy snacks.  Rose said that 'The event made $800, so if we have to fork over a third of it to Disney, so be it. You know, lesson learned.'  Droste took to Twitter the day after the letter was sent to vent her anger over the situation.  'Who wants to hear an unbelievable story about how Disney is essentially fining Berkeley’s Emerson Elementary School PTA $250 while reaping millions of dollars through a corporate loophole that has decimated public schools across California?' she tweeted.  'As I was dropping the kids off at the school this morning the PTA was freaking out over a letter they received from Disney’s licensing demanding money. Mind you, they wanted pretty much what they had raised that evening,' she added.  Droste went on to write: 'Now I can imagine some of you may say there are legitimate concerns with copyright and PTA made a mistake. Sure, I get that but coming after an elementary school? Really?? Disney wants $250 when we are struggling to pay our teachers and spending per pupil is laughable?'  Droste told KPIX that the the fundraiser was meant to help pay for teachers and vital services at the school.  'Here you have a company that makes so much money and we have schools that are struggling so much,' she said. 'What I thought about was just the irony of paying a multi-billion dollar company essentially ask a school to pay up.' It's unclear how Movie Licensing USA discovered that the PTA group had shown The Lion King at the event, although the fundraiser was publicly listed on an event booking website. The licensing group told Berkeleyside that single-use permits cost $250, while schools can pay $536 for annual licenses.  Rose told the news station that the PTA group will pay the $250 licensing fee and aim to recoup that amount through future donations.  Reaction on social media was mixed, with a number of parents and artists pointing out that the school should have known about the licensing fee and is responsible for paying for it.  DailyMail.com has reached out to Disney for comment.  
