{ By Camilla Canocchi for Thisismoney.co.uk   Published:  12:57, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//money/markets/article-7965137/Plumbing-giant-Ferguson-considers-moving-stock-market-listing-blow-London.html }
Plumbing and building supplies merchant Ferguson was one of the biggest risers on the FTSE 100 today after it confirmed it was considering moving its stock market listing to the US and revealed plans for a share buy-back. Ferguson, which is about to spin off its UK Wolseley business following pressure from American activist investor Nelson Peltz, said the US was its 'natural' home for a listing.  The company is consulting with shareholders over two possible options: having a dual listing in London and the US, or switching its primary listing to a US stock exchange, which would mean losing its place in the FTSE 100 index.  The latter option would be a blow to London and could anger UK shareholders. In both cases, the company needs the approval of 75 per cent of shareholders.   'The Board believes that Ferguson's natural long-term listing location is the USA but it is mindful that this is a complex issue for many of our existing shareholders,' chairman Geoff Drabble said.  Meanwhile, Ferguson also announced a $500million (£386million) share buyback to allow it to meet its long-term growth prospects. The company's shares closed almost 7 per cent higher at £73.78 on Tuesday, making it one of the top gainers on the Footsie.  The announcement comes as in September last year, Ferguson announced plans to split off its UK operations following a lengthy strategic review of the group. The UK division has been suffering sliding sales amid challenging trading conditions. It also came under scrutiny from US hedge fund and activist investor Trian Partners, run by billionaire entrepreneur Nelson Peltz, which bought a 6 per cent stake last June. The group has recently seen a changeover at the top, with chief executive John Martin - at the helm since 2016 - stepping down in November and replaced by its US boss, Kevin Murphy.   
