{ By Lauren Edmonds and Valerie Edwards For Dailymail.com   Published:  07:16, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7964217/Parents-slam-J-Los-Shakiras-halftime-performances-inappropriate-kids.html }
Parents are outraged over Jennifer Lopez and Shakira's sexy Super Bowl LIV Halftime show, saying it was 'vulgar' and completely inappropriate for children.   Shakira and J-Lo performed the much-hyped half-time show at the Hard Rock Stadium in Miami, Florida, in front of a star-studded crowd that included rapper Jay-Z and his daughter Blue Ivy, Cardi B and model Emily Ratajkowski.   Much of Twitter went abuzz after the halftime show - which received more viewership than the game - but some found the belly dancing and pole-spinning too much.  'Absolutely the worst, most vulgar halftime show ever,' one Twitter user said. 'I was embarrassed for my kids and and ashamed of Fox for televising it. J LO must have had and STD the way she kept grabbing her crotch. #NFLHalfTimeshow.' Scroll down for video  One person said: 'Not appropriate for kids at a Super Bowl halftime show. Just J Lo's outfits in general.'  'It's all too much for kids. Fine for a show in Vegas, but definitely not family fare!!! Very poor taste NFL! Didn't need to be like that at all,' another said.    'It was NO example to young kids anywhere and a disgrace to have this Burlesque show come into all our living rooms! So pathetic and disgusting at the SUPERBOWL! The NFL have idiots running the Show!! Glad I'm not alone,' one enraged woman said.       'It was crass. Over-sexed. Pole dancing, really? Glad I don't have young kids anymore,' one user said, 'Jlo trying too hard as usual. Loved the Spanish. Love Shakira (minus the snake-tongue thing). Didn't love all the cracks, and ass in face thing...When did we forget that Less is More?'  One woman decided to share her opinion by posing a question.  Answer: Lewd. Crude.Disgusting. Nasty. Vulgar. Crossed the line. Glorified porn. Crass. Inappropriate. Gross. Untalented. Sickening,' she wrote.  'Question: What was the halftime show?' she added.  'That was completely an immoral, classless soft porn pole dancing performance! How dare you allow something so provocative knowing children were watching. Then having children perform around these TRAMPS.  I can’t believe that the halftime show doubled as a STRIP CLUB performance!! It’s heartbreaking that these super star women thought we wanted our children to see that classless spectacle  Lastly, a Twitter user shared a gif of Kylie Jenner mouthing the words: 'That is absolutely repulsive.'  Other users hit back at the scandalized parents, noting that the performance was not out of the ordinary for pop concerts.   'To all the people b****ing about the halftime show be sure you never take your kids to a Pop concert or to Miami. Nothing that happened at halftime was out of the ordinary for either. Learn to appreciate culture and be a better parent and not judge others,' one person wrote. Some users pointed out the hypocrisy of the parent's outrage, noting that NFL cheerleaders often wear similar outfits.  It was also pointed out that during Maroon 5's 2019 halftime performance, singer Adam Levine performed shirtless to no backlash.   'People: JLO and Shakira's halftime performance was totally inappropriate. They were naked on stage. Bumping and grinding on stage,' a woman wrote. 'Meanwhile everyday in the NFL,' she continued, adding a photo of NFL cheerleaders wearing uniforms that show midriff, legs and cleavage.  One user shared a side-by-side photo of a shirtless Adam Levine and J-Lo, comparing reactions from 2019 to 2020.  'Moms in 2019: [Heart eyes]. Moms in 2020: Really wish the halftime show was family friendly. There are kids watching!'   Meanwhile, Christian evangelist Franklin Graham slammed Pepsi's Super Bowl halftime show and the NFL for 'showing young girls that sexual exploitation of women is okay'. In a Facebook post that has more than 110,000 shares, Graham wrote that the performance by Jennifer Lopez and Shakira is evident that the 'moral decency' on television is 'disappearing before our eyes'. 'I don’t expect the world to act like the church, but our country has had a sense of moral decency on prime time television in order to protect children. We see that disappearing before our eyes,' Graham wrote. 'It was demonstrated tonight in the Pepsi Super Bowl Halftime Show—with millions of children watching,' he wrote.  'This exhibition was Pepsi showing young girls that sexual exploitation of women is okay. With the exploitation of women on the rise worldwide, instead of lowering the standard, we as a society should be raising it. I’m disappointed in Pepsi and the NFL,' Graham concluded.  During the halftime show, superstars J.Lo and Shakira gave dazzling performances alongside young children.  J-Lo showed off her dancer's body in a string of racy outfits during the performance, which saw her whirl through a pole dance. The 50-year-old was trained in pole dancing for her role as a stripper in last year's drama Hustlers, which also starred Constance Wu, Cardi B and Lili Reinhart.  J-Lo's performance even appeared to take a swipe at Donald Trump's immigration policies that featured Latino children in cages who then broke into a rendition of 'Born in the USA'.  Both women put their Latina heritage front and center of the show, with the former - who was born in Colombia - taking to the stage shouting 'hola Miami!' before bringing out rapper Bad Bunny who sung in Spanish. But it was J-Lo who made the bigger statement during her performance, when the lights rose on children, including her own 11-year-old daughter Emme.  The children were seen in cages that appeared to reference Trump's hardline immigration policy that has seen kids detained after attempting to cross the southern border illegally.  Emme began by singing part of her song Let's Get Loud before J-Lo appeared in a giant American flag coat, which had the Puerto Rican flag on the other side. 'Latinos!' she shouted as she threw the coat open before breaking into a rendition of 'Born in the USA'. While Graham may have been critical of their performance, others applauded the women for using their platform.   'Shakira and J.Lo put kids in cages, protesting the American government’s treatment of immigrants and Puerto Rico in the same 10 second clip, with all of America watching. And they both looked hot as hell while doing it. That is how you use a platform,' one Twitter user wrote.   One Twitter user wrote: 'So, in case you missed it during the #HalftimeShow, this powerful moment showed children in 'cages' as 'Born In The USA' played... the statement. the power. wow.' Another said: 'I loved the half time! It represented more than your people understood with the kids in cages, dressed in all white (immigration protest last year we all wore all white), the lights made a “fence” background, J Lo w/Puerto Rican flag singing Born in the USA.' Others noted: 'J Lo's daughter Emme sings "Let's Get Loud" surrounded by kids in glowing cages. 'Kids are still in cages at the border. ' J Lo draped in US flag revealed as a Puerto Rico Flag sings "Born in The USA" with Emme. 'Brown people have rights too.' And one viewer said: 'Some people so busy arguing about J Lo on a pole shaking her booty that they missed the message...Did you notice? Kids in cages while singing 'let's get loud' and 'born in the USA'.'  Another said they had watched the show five times, adding: 'It's exuberant. So much joy but I loved the dig at Trump with the children singing in cages including j.lo's own daughter. Amazing moment.' The Trump administration's 'zero tolerance' immigration policy at the US-Mexico border wall has led to hundreds of children being separated from their parents.  The separation policy was adopted across the entire US-Mexico border from April 2018 until it was ended in June 2018 following national and international criticism. Since June 2018, despite the official end of the separation policy, hundreds of additional children have been separated from their parents, according to official reports.  In March 2019, the government reported that since that time, 245 children had been removed from their families. The House Committee on Oversight and Reform reported in July 2019 that over 700 children have been separated from their parents since the policy's end.  
