{ By Associated Press   Published:  07:03, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-7964197/Canada-beats-US-OT-pulls-2-1-Rivalry-Series.html }
VICTORIA, British Columbia (AP) - Victoria Bach scored 3:22 into overtime to lift Canada over the United States on Monday night in the third game of the Rivalry Series. Bach's backhander off a 2-on-1 pass from Blayre Turnbull beat goalie Nicole Hensley, who faced a Canadian onslaught in the extra frame. The Canada-U.S. Rivalry Series was at full intensity. Canada's Brigette Lacquette tied it for Canada with just under seven minutes left in the third period with a wrist shot from just inside the blue line during an intense scramble for the puck. Canada had a two-player power-play advantage for more than a minute and Lacquette's goal came with the Americans down one player but facing fierce pressure from the Canadians, who held possession for much of the penalties. The teams traded goals in the second, with Brianne Jenner scoring short-handed for Canada early in the period. Jenner had a clear breakaway and scored when she bobbled the puck and it squeezed through Hensley's pads. Hilary Knight scored on the power play for the Americans with a blast from the right face-off circle the 12:01. It was her 200th career point with the U.S. team. Canada celebrates a goal to tie the game against the USA during the third period of the Rivalry Series hockey game at the Save-On-Foods Memorial Centre in Victoria, British Columbia, Monday, Feb. 3, 2020. (Chad Hipolito/The Canadian Press via AP) This was coach Troy Ryan's first game behind the bench after replacing former coach Perry Pearn last month. The Americans won the first two games last December in Hartford, Connecticut and Moncton, New Brunswick. The teams play next in Vancouver on Wednesday, and the series wraps up Saturday in Anaheim, California. Team Canada's Ann-Renee Desbiens looks for the puck as Team USA's Hilary Knight tries to score during second period action of the Rivalry Series at the Save-On-Foods Memorial Centre in Victoria, British Columbia, Monday, Feb. 3, 2020. (Chad Hipolito/The Canadian Press via AP) Team Canada's Ann-Renee Desbiens makes the save against Team USA during first period action of the Rivalry Series at the Save-On-Foods Memorial Centre in Victoria, British Columbia, on Monday, Feb. 3, 2020. (Chad Hipolito/The Canadian Press via AP) Team USA's Annie Pankowski is tripped up by Team Canada's Jocelyne Larocque as Canada's Renata Fast (14) looks on during first period action of the Rivalry Series at the Save-On-Foods Memorial Centre in Victoria, British Columbia, on Monday, Feb. 3, 2020. (Chad Hipolito/The Canadian Press via AP) Team Canada's Brianne Jenner tries to steal the puck from Team USA's Megan Keller during second period action of the Rivalry Series at the Save-On-Foods Memorial Centre in Victoria, British Columbia, Monday, Feb. 3, 2020. (Chad Hipolito/The Canadian Press via AP) Team Canada's Ann-Renee Desbiens makes the save against Team USA during first period action of the Rivalry Series at the Save-On-Foods Memorial Centre in Victoria, British Columbia, on Monday, Feb. 3, 2020. (Chad Hipolito/The Canadian Press via AP) 
