{ By Rachel Mcgrath For Dailymail.com   Published:  05:26, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7963873/Jessica-Biel-stylish-plaid-blazer-black-skirt-LA-premiere-season-3-Sinner.html }
His seven-year marriage came under scrutiny after he was photographed in a very public display of affection with his Palmer co-star Alisha Wainwright during a boozy night out in New Orleans in November. But on Monday night, Justin Timberlake made a point of supporting his wife Jessica Biel at the Los Angeles premiere for season three of USA Network's The Sinner. While he skipped the red carpet, Timberlake did pose for photos inside the event with Biel who serves as a producer on the drama series. The two, who wed in 2012 and share a four-year-old son Silas, smiled for the camera as they stood with their arms around each other. It comes just three days after Biel, 37, gushed about her hubby in an Instagram post to mark his 39th birthday. The celebrity couple seem determined to reassure the world that their relationship is stronger than ever following the former boybander's 'strong lapse in judgement'. In an apology he posted to Instagram after his drunken PDA with Wainwright, who plays his love interest in the movie Palmer, Timberlake stated that 'nothing happened' between the two of them and he regretted his behavior.  It was widely reported that the incident had put a strain on his marriage to Biel but they have worked through it.  Biel, 37, put on a stylish show as she walked the red carpet at the event dressed in a black and white plaid blazer that had a black fabric flower on one lapel. She added a white blouse with several buttons left unbuttoned which she wore tucked into a black below-the-knee skirt. Biel paired her outfit with black pumps and dangly earrings. Her hair was piled high on top of her head and she was made up with bright red lip color. Joining Biel on the red carpet were the shows' stars Bill Pullman and Matt Bomer.  The Sinner season three sees Bill Pullman return as Detective Harry Ambrose to investigate another dark mystery. The cast also includes Bomer, Chris Messina, Jessica Hecht, Parisa Fitz-Henley and Eddie Martinez. The crime drama premieres on USA Network on Thursday. Among the celebrities who turned out to support the event were actresses Kimiko Glenn and Breeda Wool, actor Garrett Clayton, who wore Timberland boots, and reality star EJ Johnson. 
