{ By Andrew Court For Dailymail.com   Published:  00:32, 4 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7963129/Moment-screaming-heckler-dragged-Donald-Trump-Jr-event-Iowa.html }
Donald Trump Jr. has clapped back at a screaming heckler during an Iowa Caucus event in West Des Moines on Monday.  The President's son was delivering a speech at a 'Keep Iowa Great' press conference when he was interrupted by the heckler, who claimed the commander-in-chief was responsible for the rise in anti-Semitism in America.  'I'm an American Jew, and ever since your father was elected President more and more Jews are being gunned down,' the man yelled, as he made his way up to the podium.  Trump Jr. was standing on the stage with his girlfriend Kimberly Guilfoyle, who quickly placed a protective arm out over her beau for fear that the heckler might get physical.  However, the President's oldest son appeared not to be rattled by the man, responding: 'I don't think anyone's done more for Israel and American Jews than my father!'   Trump Jr. then used the opportunity to plug his book, Triggered: How the Left Thrives on Hate and Wants to Silence Us.  'This is why I wrote the book Triggered, folks! Who here has read New York Times number one bestseller Triggered?' he quipped.  The heckler was forcibly removed from the premises, as the crowd started to chant 'USA! USA!' The heckler - Elon Glickman - later took to Twitter via the @IfNotNow page to share his side of the story.  'They can drag me out but I'll never stop fighting for Jewish people. @donaltrumpjr spreads antisemitic conspiracy theories that are killing American Jews. He & GOP can't hide their antisemitism behind support for Israel. Jews are rising up to fight white nationalists',' he wrote.  The footage was also shared to Twitter by NBC News, who were on hand recording the event.  Several Twitter users responded by remarking on the small crowd size, while one took issue with Trump Jr. trying to promote his book.  However, another user praised Guilfoyle for showing off her quick reflexes, stepping in to protect her man.  'WOW Kimberly stepped towards was ready to physically protect Don Jr.! She's a keeper!' they enthused.  
