{ By Kieran Lynch For Mailonline   Published:  15:23, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8034967/Cristiano-Ronaldo-Lionel-Messi-tipped-join-forces-retire-David-Beckhams-Inter-Miami.html }
The prospect of Cristiano Ronaldo playing alongside Lionel Messi might sound like a dream to many football fans, however it might be possible. That is according to MLS manager Adrian Heath, who believes that the pair could both end their careers at David Beckham's new Inter Miami team. The former Manchester United, Real Madrid and LA Galaxy midfielder has ambitious plans for his new franchise and Heath believes Beckham has the power to pair-up the long-term rivals.  Minnesota United boss Heath told the Daily Mirror: 'That would be incredible for football in the USA and if anyone has the global profile to make that dream a reality then it has to be David Beckham.  “It may not happen just yet, but I can see Ronaldo following in the footsteps of Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Wayne Rooney, Steven Gerrard and Frank Lampard playing in the MLS. “For Ronaldo and Messi, the two obvious destinations if they came to the MLS would be Los Angeles and Miami.' Beckham has a strong relationship with Ronaldo, who at the age of 35 could potentially eye a new challenge outside of Europe before he retires.  Barcelona superstar Messi has more time on his side at 32, but Heath believes both could be tempted by Beckham's new venture. The pair have dominated European football for more than a decade, breaking many records and winning many trophies along the way. They also fought for personal honours as well, with Luka Modric the only player to break the Messi and Ronaldo stranglehold on the Ballon d'OR since 2008.   For many years they were rivals on opposing sides as Real Madrid and Barcelona competed for league and European success. Should Beckham's pulling power be enough to tempt the pair to join forces in Miami, it would put MLS defences on alert and create a dream attacking duo. 
