{ By Annita Katee For Dailymail.com   Published:  19:10, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7962139/Jennifer-Lopez-puts-leggy-display-unveils-Coach-sneaker-collaboration.html }
She stole the show during her Super Bowl half-time performance with Shakira on Sunday night in Miami.  And the wins continued for Jennifer Lopez on Monday as she was seen in new images from her latest Coach collaboration.  The 50-year-old flaunted her long lean legs to showcase her new sneaker range. 'Style from the feet up. Coach girl, #SuperBowl half-time hero and all-time original #JenniferLopez debuts our new sneaker, #CoachCitySole,' the company captioned the images on social media. The Jenny From The Block singer was dressed in a red leather jacket worn open to show off her orange shirt. The mother-of-two also had on a navy blue skirt for the shoot.  The fiance of baseball vet Alex Rodriguez teamed the look with a pair of $175 animal print sneakers from the designer brand.  Her brunette tresses were styled beautifully and her makeup was kept luminous and dewy.  Another shot had the ex of Ben Affleck rock a pair of black leather trousers that were cuffed at the ankle.  She opted for the same pair of pricey sneakers.   The Amor Amor Amor singer was also seen enjoying a dance over on their Instagram Stories.  'Who's as excited as we are to see our girl #JenniferLopez perform in tonight's #SuperBowl half-time show?' they captioned on Sunday.   The beauty took to the Super Bowl stage with Shakira for a performance that blew the world away.   The pair put on an incredibly high energy performance all while bringing to light political issues such immigration.  One part of the performance saw female children, including J-Lo's 11-year-old daughter, Emme, singing a mix of Let's Get Loud and Born in the USA while in cages.  The idea was to protest against President Trump's zero-tolerance immigration policy at the US-Mexico border wall.   The cages appeared to reference Trump's hardline immigration policy that has seen children detained after attempting to cross the southern border illegally.   Following Emme's show-stopping vocals, J-Lo returned to the stage wearing a flag coat which had Puerto Rico on one side and the US on the other.   Jennifer was born in New York City to Puerto Rican parents while Shakira was born in Columbia.  
