{ By Ryan Smith for MailOnline   Published:  12:52, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7960899/Jennifer-Lopezs-Super-Bowl-halftime-featured-130-dancers-213-costumes-143-pairs-shoes.html }
She wowed audiences with a breathtaking Super Bowl halftime performance that included pole-dancing and political statements on Sunday evening. And it has now been revealed that the show as no small feat for Jennifer Lopez, 50, who hired an army of dancers – 130, to be exact – to bring her vision to life. With so many people taking to the stage for her high-octane set, racks of clothing were required for the event, held at Miami Gardens' Hard Rock Stadium, with 213 costumes being stitched together and an eye-watering 143 pairs of shoes acquired. Scroll down for video  Jennifer herself also went through three (extremely quick) costume changes, as she stepped out in one glittering racy ensemble after another. Experts also estimated that the star employed the use of no less than 27 props to pull off the perfect performance for the hundreds of millions tuned into the show.  The New York native's highly anticipated set saw her share the stage with Colomian-born singer Shakira, 43, as the pair ran through a medley of their greatest hits. For her part, Jennifer – who is engaged to former baseball player Alex Rodriguez, 44 – also displayed her athletic prowess as she pole danced onstage in the midst of pulling out an array of impressive dance steps in front of the cheering audience. Showing herself to be a true multi-faceted performer, the singer, dancer and actress took fans for a trip down memory lane as she belted out such chart-topping hits as Jenny From The Block, Love Don't Cost A Thing, and Waiting For Tonight. She also bright her 11-year-old daughter Emme, from her marriage to Marc Anthony, onto the stage to show off her own vocal abilities as she belted out Let's Get Loud. The mother-daughter collaboration, which occurred as a seemingly tireless Shakira took a break from singing to play the drums, also served as a political statement. As Jennifer continued performing Let's Get Loud, Emme switched into a rendition of the 1984 Bruce Springsteen song Born In The U.S.A. 'Latinos!' Jennifer shouted, spreading her Stars And Stripes cape to reveal that the inside was the the flag of Puerto Rico, the island of her parents' birth. The audience at the high profile annual sporting event included rap mogul Beyoncé, 38, Jay-Z, 50, Lady Gaga, 33, David Beckham, 44, and Emily Ratajkowski, 28. They later watched as the Kansas City Chiefs went on to seal a huge victory as they defeated the San Francisco 49ers. 
