{ By Sameer Suri and Megan Sheets For Dailymail.com    Published:  01:51, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7959649/Jennifer-Lopez-brings-daughter-Emme-11-onstage-sing-Lets-Loud-Super-Bowl.html }
Jennifer Lopez's 11-year-old daughter Emme Maribel Muniz stole the show as she joined her famous mom on the Super Bowl half-time stage in Miami on Sunday night.   Emme, whom J.Lo shares with her ex-husband and singer Marc Anthony, gave her famous mother a run for her money as she belted out Let's Get Loud while fellow Super Bowl LIV headliner Shakira played the drums. The budding performer was showered with praise on social media as A-listers including Kim Kardashian West, Padma Lakshmi and her dad raved that a star has been born.  Emme entered the stage alongside a choir of identically dressed children, emerging from a round cage before stepping out of the group for her big solo.    The young girl then launched into an electric rendition of Let's Get Loud from J.Lo's 1999 debut album On The 6 that also included No Me Ames, a duet with Emme's father.  As Jennifer continued performing Let's Get Loud, Emme switched into a rendition of the 1984 Bruce Springsteen hit Born In The USA. 'Latinos!' Jennifer shouted, spreading her Stars And Stripes cape to reveal that the inside was the Puerto Rican flag. Both J.Lo and Marc were born in New York City to Puerto Rican parents. The special appearance drew rave reviews, including from Kim Kardashian who tweeted: 'Can we talk about how amazing  @Jlo's daughter Emme sang and on such a huge stage like the Super Bowl'. Kim's younger sister Khloe, who has a one-year-old daughter named True, tweeted: 'How special to have this moment with your daughter? #SuperBowl'. TODAY Show host Hoda Kotb declared that Emme and J.Lo were 'slaying it' while celebrity chef Padma Laks  However the most touching tribute came from Emme's father, who wrote on Twitter: 'Emme Daddy is so proud of you. You are my [heart] and I am forever yours.'  Hours before the performance took place Page Six quoted a source who hinted that Emme 'will be performing on stage as the symbol of the American dream.' Five days before the Super Bowl Jennifer slyly previewed Emme's cameo by posting an Instagram picture of them hugging at one of her rehearsals. However she did not mention that Emme would actually be part of the performance, writing in the caption: 'I love when Lulu visits me at rehearsals....' J.Lo showed off her dancer's body in a string of racy outfits during the Super Bowl gig, which saw her top a cheer pyramid and whirl through a pole dance. The 50-year-old was trained in pole dancing for her role as a stripper in last year's drama Hustlers, which also starred Constance Wu, Cardi B and Lili Reinhart. Jennifer, who also has an 11-year-old son named Max who is Emme's twin, is now engaged to ex-MLB player Alex Rodriguez, who will become her fourth husband. This year's Super Bowl pitted the San Francisco 49ers against the victorious Kansas City Chiefs and featured a stirring performance of The Star Spangled Banner from Demi Lovato.  
