USA
{ By Adam S. Levy For Dailymail.com   Published:  00:17, 3 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7959391/Tom-Cruise-soars-new-trailer-Gun-Maverick-new-enemy-played-Miles-Teller-shown.html }
Tom Cruise dazzled in a new preview for Top Gun: Maverick, the long-awaited sequel to his 1986 action film Top Gun, released on Super Bowl Sunday. Cruise reprises his role as Maverick in the sequel, which is directed by Joseph Kosinski, as he's seen navigating through tight airspace amid a montage of voice-overs. The premise of the film sees Cruise's Maverick training Bradley 'Rooster' Bradshaw (Miles Teller), whose father was late pilot Nick 'Goose' Bradshaw, portrayed in the first movie by Anthony Edwards.  Among the voice-overs from cast members include Teller's character saying, 'My dad believed in you ... I'm not going to make the same mistake.' Other voices are heard saying, 'You know what happens if you go though with this,' while another says, 'I have everything I need to have you court martialed and dishonorably discharged.' Another voice is heard declaring, 'The end is inevitable Maverick,' and another is heard saying, 'What are you gonna do?' The cacophony of voices are underscored by the sound of deep breathing of Cruise's character while flying in the cockpit. The original featured Val Kilmer, Kelly McGillis and Anthony Edwards, with Tim Robbins and Meg Ryan in the extended cast.  Kilmer returns for the sequel to the 1980s hit, which also features an ensemble cast including Teller, Jon Hamm, Jennifer Connelly, Ed Harris, and Glen Powell.  Teller, speaking with USA Today Thursday ahead of the release of the Super Bowl trailer, called the film 'a true sequel it takes place in the present day. 'It’s where Maverick would be 30 some odd years later and he comes back as our instructor,' he said. 'He’s training us as a special detachment.'  The actor opened up about the training regimen he underwent to go toe-to-toe with Cruise in the aviation-geared movie. 'In the first one Tom was the only guy who could stand being in the jet for a little bit because of the G-force,' he said. 'None of those guys really did training for it.' Teller said pilots in the film 'were put through the ringer by Tom' in preparing for the film. 'For this, Tom came up with a very specific training schedule for us so we had three months worth of flying lessons, just so that we could be able to film in these jets, because you’re experiencing 71/2 Gs, and that’s like 1,600 lbs of pressure or something. You are whipping around in that thing.' Top Gun: Maverick is slated to arrive in theaters June 26, 2020.    
