{ By Deirdre Simonds For Dailymail.com   Published:  02:53, 23 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8033541/Jennifer-Lopez-pays-homage-twins-12th-birthday-series-throwback-pictures.html }
Jennifer Lopez paid tribute to her twins on Saturday, as they turned 12.  The Grammy winner opened her photo album to celebrate Maximilian and Emme, whom she shares with ex Marc Anthony, via Instagram.  'I know you're 12 years old today but you will always be my babies...' the proud mama captioned a photo of herself gazing down at her then-newborns in 2008.   'HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO MY BEAUTIFUL COCONUTS!!!' she wrote, using her affectionate nickname for the precious pair.  The Hustlers actress also posted a series of pictures on her Instagram Story, which included sweet throwback images of her and the twins over the years.  In one of the cutest pictures in the collage, Max can be seen wrapping his arms tightly around Emme in a sweet embrace.  Lopez can also be snuggled up between the pair in another selfie, as they all look different directions toward the camera.   Soon-to-be fourth husband Alex Rodriguez took to his personal Instagram page to wish Lopez' children   'Happy Birthday Emme & Max!!!!! I’m so proud of both of you and so lucky to be a part of your life. I love you!,' captioned the former professional baseball player. He shared a slew of snapshots of himself and Lopez making memories with the darling twins over the years.  One portrait in particular, showed the blended family posing against an enviable sunset, while enjoying a beach day. Another showed Rodriguez surrounded by the twins, as well as his two daughters Natasha, 15, and Ella, 11. The 44-year-old athlete also added some private footage of the kids from various family gathering over the years, including one very special ride atop a camel. Earlier in the day, Lopez appeared to treat her daughter to some quality girl time at the nail salon.  The singer and her little girl got matching white nails, apart from a Chanel logo on Lopez's ring finger.  'Nails to fit the bling,' celebrity manicurist Tom Bachik captioned a picture of the star's hand, which prominently featured her rock from Rodriguez.  Over the past few years, Lopez has been allowing her children to spend more time in the public eye and they've become regular fixtures on her Instagram.   Most notably, the Let's Get Loud hitmaker was joined by Emme during her show-stopping Super Bowl halftime performance earlier this month. The budding performer stole the show by belting out Let's Get Loud as fellow headliner Shakira played the drums, before transitioning into Born In The USA while J.Lo revealed a Puerto Rican flag cape behind her. The special appearance drew rave reviews, including from Kim Kardashian who tweeted: 'Can we talk about how amazing @Jlo's daughter Emme sang and on such a huge stage like the Super Bowl.' While Lopez's daughter has her heart set on singing, her twin also has a large personality.  In April, the superstar let the twins interview her in a hilarious YouTube video, where she answers anything they ask.  'How did you feel when you found out you were having twins?' Emme asked.  'Ok so this is a good story. Are you going to let me tell it?' Jennifer started. Jennifer says: 'So here's the thing when I realized I was pregnant I was in Portugal, I was doing a big show. I just went away for two days and when I sat there I was in my hair and makeup trailer and here's what I felt - in my belly I felt a flutter and it felt like a little butterfly in my stomach and I was like... immediately I knew I had life inside me. 'I knew it - like it came right in my head so we went to the doctor and we're sitting there and they are giving me an ultrasound on top of my belly - my belly was still flat.' Adding: 'The doctor says - 'you see that? that little grain of rice? That's the baby' and we were like' - Jennifer put her hand on her mouth as if surprised - 'and we were like Oh my God we are having a baby and then he says 'you see this other little grain of rice over here? That's the other baby.'' Jennifer had a shocked look on her face before her twins burst out laughing. 'And I was like WHATTTT!!! and I start laughing hysterically - I just laughed out loud. I couldn't believe it. And that's how I found out I was having twins.' Her babies have been supportive of her engagement to Rodriguez and Lopez even told Extra TV last year they would be 'thrilled' if the pair expanded their family. When asked about conceiving another child, she told People, 'I want to! I don't know that it's in God's plan, but I would like to try. I'm so open to it!' Alex also has two children - Natasha, 15, and Ella, 11 - with his ex-wife Cynthia Scurtis and they've all come together to make a perfectly 'blended' family. 
