{ By Caleb Taylor For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  01:36, 2 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7956863/Jonathan-LaPaglia-calls-Survivor-ruthless.html }
Jonathan LaPaglia has revealed exactly what fans can expect to see on this year's season of Australian Survivor: All Stars.   Speaking to TV Tonight on Sunday, the 50-year-old said this season will feature extreme levels of competition from the minute players hit the beach.  'You've got 24 returning contestants, who are all hungry for something: redemption, revenge or the ultimate prize of being crowned the sole Survivor,' he said.  The TV host explained all the contestants have played Survivor before, meaning they understand how 'cutthroat' it can be.   'They know what it's like to be out on the island. They know how cutthroat it can be and they're all super-competitive. That's a lot of testosterone.'  'So that culminates in a lot of blindsides. It's pretty ruthless.' The series was filmed between August and October.  The upcoming series will see Survivor fan favourites - and some of the show's most controversial contestants - back for an All Stars round. The big stars returning to the series will be Olympic swimming champion Shane Gould, as well as villain 'Dirty' Harry Hills, who made the final three last year.   Speaking to The Mercury on Saturday, Shane said she was ready to take out the title.    'I'm going to try and make history by equalling the record of only one survivor player worldwide to win twice,' the 63-year-old said.   'Sandra Diaz-Twine, from Survivor USA, has won it twice. No one else has in all the Survivor franchises,' she continued.  Season three winner, Shane, who was the oldest contestant to ever win the series at 63, is among the stars to join the 2020 cast.   Olympic skier Lydia Lassila, who was booted in a blindside orchestrated by Shane, was also announced as a star of the new series in a recent trailer.   Australian Survivor: All Stars will premiere Monday, February 3 on Channel 10  
