USA
{ By Amelia Wynne For Mailonline   Published:  19:44, 1 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7956095/The-Simpsons-predicted-deadly-coronavirus-outbreak-episode-27-years-ago.html }
The Simpsons predicted the outbreak of the deadly coronavirus 27 years ago, fans of the cartoon have claimed.  In an episode from 1993 a virus called Osaka Flu spreads through Springfield after residents order juicers from Japan. The claim emerged on social media after fans began posting about the similarities between the episode of the show titled 'Marge in Chains' and the current global outbreak.  Scenes show the juicers being packed into boxes as sick workers cough all over them - sending the virus to America. Fans of the show took to Twitter to discuss the similarities - despite the fact the virus on The Simpsons came from Japan while the current coronavirus outbreak originated in Wuhan in China.  Some are so convinced they even took the time to edit 'Osaka flu' to 'Coronavirus' in Kent Brockman's news report.  One person Tweeted: 'Did the simpsons really predict kobe's death and the corona virus outbreak? wtf this is crazy.' Another said: 'The Simpsons are from the future. They have predicted everything that has happened to us. Like trump becoming pres, Kobe's death and now the coronavirus. What's next?! The world ending?' Someone else said: 'The Simpsons scares me. This episode aired 27 years ago in 1993!' This is not the first time fans have become convinced the hit cartoon has predicted the future.  In 1997, The Simpsons predicted the Ebola crisis and in 2000 the show predicted that Donald Trump would become president of the USA. It comes as the number of confirmed cases in China rose to 11,791 today, surpassing the number in the 2002-03 outbreak of Sars, and the death toll rose to 259.  A total of 201 tests for coronavirus in the UK have been confirmed negative, the Department of Health said in the latest figures released this afternoon. In Wirral, Merseyside, the 83 Britons repatriated from the crisis-hit Chinese city last night are beginning their first day in quarantine - where they will be holed up in the building at the side of Arrowe Park Hospital for 14 days.  
