USA
{ By Nicole Douglas For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  07:50, 1 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7954927/Solange-Knowles-cuts-stylish-figure-Sydney-Airport-black-silky-ensemble.html }
She played her final performance at the Sydney Opera House on Thursday night. And on Saturday, Beyonce Knowles' sister Solange cut a stylish figure as she began her long trek back to the USA at Sydney Airport.  The 33-year-old singer appeared in high spirits as she sauntered through the departures lounge, sporting a comfortable shiny black ensemble for the occasion. The pyjama-like outfit fit loosely on the Don't Touch My Hair songstress' svelte frame, with the starlet teaming her look with a pair of snakeskin loafers. Solange left her natural waves to cascade down her back, and accessorised with a tiny beige handbag and a pair of oversized sunglasses. Her final performance was long-awaited for some fans, after she was forced to cancel two of her four Sydney shows two weeks ago. She was due to play her opening two shows on the 27th and 28th of January, but had to cancel after 'having sought medical advice'. The Sydney Opera House released a statement on their website, explaining that the shows on the 30th and 31st of January would still go ahead. 'Solange has made the difficult decision, for health reasons, to shorten her time in Sydney this month,' the statement read. 'Due to the physical demands of the shows and having sought medical advice, the artist has decided to reduce the number of performances at the Opera House.' It continues: 'As a result, the shows on Monday 27 and Tuesday 28 January 2020 will no longer take place, and will not be rescheduled.' In December 2017, Solange opened up about her health battles with fans, revealing that she suffers an autonomic disorder. She wrote on Instagram at the time: 'It's a complicated diagnoses (sic), and I'm still learning so much myself, but right now, my doctors are not clearing me for such an extended lengthy flight, and doing a rigorous show right after.'   
