USA
{ By Hayley Richardson For Mailonline   Published:  17:06, 31 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//femail/article-7952637/Unearthed-photos-Meghan-Markle-glam-life-return-post-Megxit.html }
Meghan Markle was certainly no stranger to the high life before she married Prince Harry. And with the Duke and Duchess of Sussex announcing earlier this month they are stepping back as senior members of the Royal Family, could Meghan be pining for her old life? Recently unearthed photographs of the former actress, 38, published by The Sun show her posing in glamorous outfits on the red carpet, dining out in style with showbiz pals and taking fun selfies with her fellow actors. The couple have recently relocated to Canada, where Meghan lived while filming the legal drama Suits, with reports suggesting they are keen to spend their summer in Los Angeles. Another source claimed Meghan has been 'actively looking' for a manager or agent for future projects; she has already signed a voiceover deal with Disney in return for a donation to an elephant charity.  Images shared on social media by her friends which tag her old Twitter account provide a window into the sort of life the duchess led before marrying into royalty. While her @MeghanMarkle page was deleted in 2018, after she and Prince Harry announced their engagement, a number of tagged photos of her remain on the platform. One shared by Canadian actress Cristine Prosperi, 26, known for portraying Imogen Moreno on soap opera series Degrassi, shows the duchess in a striking white gown with poker straight hair.   She captioned it: 'Yes I confessed my love to the beautiful @meghanmarkle aka Rachel on Suits. She's stunning isn't she?'  Another shot of her, which dates back to 2013, shows her pouting with screenwriter Tina Gordon, who worked on What Men Want. The image of the two women dining on fine cuisine and glasses of wine was shared by Scandal actress Katie Lowes, 38.   Meghan's co-star Rick Hoffman, who played Louis Litt on Suits, has shared several snaps of the duchess, including one of her in a black strapless gown posing on a grand staircase and a selfie of the two of them at dinner together in Paris in 2013.  There are numerous photos of Meghan posing with the Suits cast on Twitter, including Abigail Spencer and Sarah Rafferty.  A particularly envy-inducing shot of the duchess from 2013 shows her posing beside Canadian actress Serinda Swan, who starred in Marvel's Inhumans, beside the Manhattan Bridge in New York City at a promotional event for USA Network. Another shot shows a glowing Meghan beside American sports broadcaster Lisa Kerney, who said the duchess had 'come a long way' when she posted it ahead of her wedding. Meghan also had a few sports stars within her social circle, including Florida Gators' quarterback Jeremy Jones. He shared a shot of Meghan, dressed in skinny jeans and a blue top, posing beside a sign reading 'Rachael' - the name of her Suits alter ego, Rachel Zane, and indeed her real monicker.  There's also an image of the duchess stood wearing a white mini dress between two towering rugby union players, one of which is Irish Back Row Kevin McLaughlin.   Meghan's passion for cooking also pre-dates her work with the community affected by the Grenfell Tower fire.  One shot shows the smiling duchess posing beside Haylie Duff, sister of Lizzie McGuire star Hilary, to promote a project they worked on together for her cookbook Real Girl's Kitchen. Last week sources revealed Harry and Meghan's hopes to make a fortune with their own film and television production company after their dramatic break from the Royal Family. The couple plan to make a living by providing voiceovers and producing documentaries on 'worthy' issues such as mental health and climate change. Following Megxit, it was announced that Harry and Meghan will no longer use their HRH titles and will repay around £2.4 million of taxpayers' money spent refurbishing their Frogmore Cottage.  
