USA
{ By Milly Vincent For Mailonline   Published:  16:54, 31 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7952593/Alan-Carr-husband-Paul-Drayton-enjoy-rare-public-date-night-watch-Madonna-perform.html }
Comedian Alan Carr, 43, and his husband Paul Drayton were spotted on a rare public date night on Thursday, as they stepped out to watch Madonna perform. The happy couple beamed as they strolled through London's West End after watching the superstar's Madame X tour at the London Palladium. Alan, who is on the same diet as their best pal Adele, cut a svelte figure in a corduroy trench over a polka dot shirt and blue jeans, while Paul went for a shiny velvet blazer. Alan proved his hard work is paying dividends as he strutted through the street arm-in-arm with his beloved husband.  Paul, his partner of 12 years, wore a flare of glitz with a gold polo neck shirt and a red striped blazer, along with tartan trousers and sequined trainers. The couple wed in an idyllic ceremony in Los Angeles in front of just four guests in January 2018, before enjoying a relaxing honeymoon in Mexico - but have kept their relationship low profile.  His best pal Adele officiated the wedding ceremony, and he later revealed during an appearance on This Morning in April 2018 that she also paid for the entire wedding.  Despite never interviewing Madonna on his talk show, Alan has made his love for the singer no secret, even dressing up in drag as the star.    On Wednesday night, Madonna made headlines after revealing some raunchy secrets about her sex life while on stage at the first London date of the tour.  The 61-year-old Like A Virgin songstress boasted during the opening show that she has 'never been with a guy with a small d**k and that she's 'good on her knees'. Madonna asked the audience: 'What do you call a man with a small penis? The answer is, I wouldn't f**king know. I've never been with a guy with a small d**k. You know size matters, don't pretend that it doesn't!' Wednesday kicked off Madonna's 14-night run at the Palladium over the next three weeks, having cancelled 10 previous gig on the Madame X tour due to illness, which so far has been to Lisbon and the USA.  In regards to his slim figure, Alan announced that he is now on a 1,000 calories per day diet after seeing the results Adele's transformation.   
