{ By Rebecca Lawrence For Mailonline and Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com   Published:  08:58, 31 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7951243/LeBron-James-grabs-dinner-Lakers-teammate-Anthony-Davis-tattoo-tributes-Kobe-Bryant.html }
LeBron James and Anthony Davis were seen enjoying dinner together after getting tattoo tributes to the late Kobe Bryant.  The Los Angeles Lakers stars were at Avra Beverly Hills Estiatorio restaurant on Thursday as they grabbed a bite to eat one the eve of their return to the court.  The pair have been preparing for their Friday night game against their in-town rivals, the Los Angeles Clippers.  LeBron, 35, kept things casual on the outing in a pinstripe suit layered over a tie dye top that concealed his new inking.   The day before, the starting point guard shared a video of tattoo artist Vanessa Aurelia working on an inking on his leg.  Anthony, 26, joined him on the outing, getting a tattoo tribute of his own.   While the tattoo is still being worked on in James' boomerang video, he captioned the video with, 'It's that time again! Working with my girl @Nessaurelia!! Gang gang!' James was seen on Thursday training with the rest of the Lakers at the team's facility in El Segundo, California, where the tattoo was seen, under a clear cellophane patch. The black tattoo is difficult to decipher, but it appears to be of a black snake, with words underneath it which appear to spell either 'Mamba 4 Life' or 'Kobe 4 Life.' Davis' tattoo is more difficult to decipher, but it's clearly being done in purple ink, the primary color of the Lakers.  Bryant and his 13 year old daughter Gianna were among the nine people who died in a tragic helicopter crash near Calabasas on Sunday. The others who lost their lives were pilot Ara Zobayan, baseball coach John Altobelli, his wife, Keri, and their daughter Alyssa; mother and daughter Sarah and Payton Chester and Mamba Academy basketball coach Christina Mauser. Tickets to Friday's game are already a hot commodity, with USA Today reporting that, as of Thursday afternoon, tickets ranged from $780 and $6,534. Competing ticket outlets have the lowest prices even higher, with SeatGeek's loest price at $828 and TickPick seats starting at $895. The lowest prices for Bryant's last game at Staples Center in 2016 sold for a StubHub record of $970, though StubHub will be giving back to a worthy cause for Friday's game. StubHub announced on Wednesday that they are donating profits from Friday's game to the Kobe & Vanessa Bryant Family Foundation. 'In honor of Kobe and Gigi Bryant, all fees for the January 31st Lakers versus Portland Trailblazers game and the Lakers versus Clippers game – for whenever it is rescheduled – will be donated to the Kobe & Vanessa Bryant Family Foundation,' said Akshay Khanna, general manager of sports for StubHub. The game between the Lakers and Clippers was originally scheduled for Tuesday, but it was postponed to Friday after Bryant's untimely death.  On Thursday, the Sacramento Kings took on the Los Angeles Clippers in the first game to be held at The Staples Centre since Bryant's death.     Ahead of the game, Clippers forward Paul George narrated a two minute video tribute to Bryant, whilst the player's retired No. 8 and No. 24 Lakers jerseys were left uncovered in the upper left corner of the arena.  Following the video tribute, there was 24 seconds of silence followed by 'Kobe, Kobe' chants before the national anthem. During the game, the Kings made a franchise-record 21 3-pointers in a 124-103 victory over the Clippers.  
