{ By Brian Gallagher For Dailymail.com   Published:  04:06, 31 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7950447/LeBron-James-Anthony-Davis-reveal-new-tattoos-pay-homage-Kobe-Bryant.html }
As LeBron James and the rest of the Los Angeles Lakers prepare for their Friday night game against their in-town rivals, the Los Angeles Clippers, James showed off a new tattoo that pays homage to Kobe Bryant. James, 35, took to his Instagram story on Wednesday to share a boomerang video of tattoo artist Vanessa Aurelia working on a tattoo on his leg. The artwork was also visible on Thursday in photos of James working out with his team, while one of his teammates Anthony Davis, sharing that he's getting new ink as well from the same artist. While the tattoo is still being worked on in James' boomerang video, he captioned the video with, 'It's that time again! Working with my girl @Nessaurelia!! Gang gang!' James was seen on Thursday training with the rest of the Lakers at the team's facility in El Segundo, California, where the tattoo was seen, under a clear cellophane patch. The black tattoo is difficult to decipher, but it appears to be of a black snake, with words underneath it which could be either 'Mamba 4 Life' or 'Kobe 4 Life.' Also on Thursday, Anthony Davis took to his Instagram story to share a boomerang video of him getting a new tattoo on his leg as well, also from Aurelia. Davis' tattoo is more difficult to decipher, but it's clearly being done in purple ink, the primary color of the Lakers. The tattoo appears to have wings of some sort, but it's difficult to tell without seeing the finished product.  Bryant and his 13 year old daughter Gianna were among the nine people who died in a tragic helicopter crash near Calabasas on Sunday. The others who lost their lives were pilot Ara Zobayan, baseball coach John Altobelli, his wife, Keri, and their daughter Alyssa; mother and daughter Sarah and Payton Chester and Mamba Academy basketball coach Christina Mauser. Tickets to Friday's game are already a hot commodity, with USA Today reporting that, as of Thursday afternoon, tickets ranged from $780 and $6,534. Competing ticket outlets have the lowest prices even higher, with SeatGeek's loest price at $828 and TickPick seats starting at $895. The lowest prices for Bryant's last game at Staples Center in 2016 sold for a StubHub record of $970, though StubHub will be giving back to a worthy cause for Friday's game. StubHub announced on Wednesday that they are donating profits from Friday's game to the Kobe & Vanessa Bryant Family Foundation. 'In honor of Kobe and Gigi Bryant, all fees for the January 31st Lakers versus Portland Trailblazers game and the Lakers versus Clippers game – for whenever it is rescheduled – will be donated to the Kobe & Vanessa Bryant Family Foundation,' said Akshay Khanna, general manager of sports for StubHub. The game between the Lakers and Clippers was originally scheduled for Tuesday, but it was postponed to Friday after Bryant's untimely death.  
