USA
{ By Rory Tingle For Mailonline   Published:  10:26, 30 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7946703/KFC-restaurant-Nottingham-installs-bulletproof-glass-screen.html }
A KFC restaurant has installed security glass to protect staff from violent customers. Customers at the Alfreton Road branch on the outskirts of Nottingham have to pick up their chicken through the unsightly barrier that covers most of the serving area. Regular diners described the screen as a 'sign of the times' and said although they feel like being 'served at a bank' it doesn't put them off eating there. The fast food giant has previously done the same in crime-ravaged Detroit in the USA but it is understood to be the first time they have done so in Britain. Earlier this week a store in Birmingham was branded as 'Britain's roughest' after putting up protective security wiring to prevent workers from being attacked. But the security measures in Nottingham, previously dubbed 'Shottingham' due to the high levels of gun crime, are even more stringent. A KFC spokesman said the glass was not new but had been at the store since it was established.  Father-of-one Connor Turley, 33, a fencer, from Hyson Green, Nottingham, said: 'I use this place quite a lot and didn't realise it was unusual. 'I guess they have to think of the safety of their staff, which around this area is a good idea as it's a bit rough around the edges. It's a sign of the times we are living in unfortunately.' Student Laura Horrocks, 21, from Hockley, said: 'It doesn't put me off, but I try not to come here at night. 'Nottingham isn't as bad as it was for gun crime but it still has a pretty bad reputation.' Tim Brown, 44, an insurance worker, from Aspley, also accepted the measure could be justified. 'It must be quite unsettling to work behind... but I understand why is there,' he said. 'You can never be too careful these days but I've never seen it anywhere else. It's like ordering your food at a bank or a petrol station after hours.' One staff member at the store said: 'It's been like it for a while. There's not been any incidents since I worked here, but it's there to keep us safe.' On Monday another KFC hit the headlines after they installed a wire grille across the counter following a series of attacks. The Chelmsley Wood restaurant near Birmingham had seen staff members assaulted by intruders who jumped over the counter as well as several fights breaking out. A KFC spokesman said at the time: 'We're sorry for any issues caused by the barriers, but these have been put up for the safety of our team members.' MailOnline has asked KFC for more comment about the more recent case.  
