{ By Roxy Simons For Mailonline   Published:  12:59, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8032073/Billie-Eilish-female-artist-reach-number-one-Bond-theme-tune.html }
Billie Eilish became the first female artist to grab the No. 1 spot for a James Bond theme tune, and is only the second musician to ever achieve the feat. The singer, 18, released the theme tune to No Time To Die last week, but has already earned 90,000 chart sales and 10.6 million streams, it was confirmed by the Official Charts Company on Friday.  Sam Smith's Writing's On The Wall was the first 007 track to reach number one, after it was released in 2015, for Spectre. Adele's 2012 song Skyfall and Duran Duran's A View To A Kill, which was released in 1985, came close to topping the charts, but just missed out as they both peaked at number two. While Madonna's Die Another Day, which was the theme tune for Pierce Brosnan's final film as James Bond, reached number 3 in 2002. At the time of their release, Shirley Bassey's Goldfinger and Diamonds are Forever failed to reach the top ten, as they peaked at 21 and 38 respectively, despite being widely considered some of the best Bond theme tunes. Paul McCartney & Wings' Live and Let Die peaked at number nine, while Gladys Knight's License To Kill reached number six. Rita Coolidge's All Time High, the theme tune for Octopussy, performed the worst in the carts as it peaked at number 75 in 1983.  According to the Official Charts Company, both Bassey's Moonraker and Lulu's The Man With The Golden Gun did not appear in the charts. On Tuesday, Billie's brother Finneas O'Connell revealed that Bond star Daniel Craig is involved in every aspect of their movie franchise, including the theme song.   'He had to like it. If Daniel doesn't like it then you don't get the job,' he said while Billie added: 'He has a big say in it. We learned that from this. He's really involved. We haven't met him but he's got to like it before they move on.' The duo wrote the song for the 25th Bond movie on a tour bus in Texas over just three days, after failing to get the creative juices flowing in the studio.    'We've been wanting to make a Bond song for years. I remember at the beginning of last year we told our whole team that if any Bond things come up we want to be involved if we can possibly be,' Billie revealed of her long-held ambition. Finneas agreed, explaining: 'There are few things as desirable as doing a Bond song and we didn't take the opportunity lightly. We really just tried to work as hard as we could to prove ourselves worthy of that.' No Time To Die is set to be released on April 2 in the UK, and on April 10 in the USA.  
