{ By Carly Johnson For Dailymail.com   Published:  00:29, 30 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7945193/Savannah-Chrisleys-fiance-Nic-Kerdiles-admits-unwaivering-love-trials-tribulations.html }
Savannah Chrisley, 22, of Chrisley Knows Best fame got engaged to pro Hockey player Nic Kerdiles, 26, on Christmas Eve of 2018. And, over a year later, Kerdiles took to Instagram on Saturday to reflect on the 'trails and tribulations' him and the reality starlet have faced throughout their relationship. 'But what makes this [relationship] so special, is that our love never waivers' captioned Kerdiles.   'This one is something special... I am not sure how I got this lucky to have found my best friend so early in my life,' he continued. Along with the post's caption was a personal snapshot of Chrisley donning a red suit jacket and matching skirt as she beamed from ear-to-ear.   He acknowledged the fact that 'what [people] see on Instagram' of the couple may make it seem like their relationship has been easy.  But that the pair has undergone a plethora of issues behind the scenes that has only made their love grow stronger.  'You may annoy the s**t out of me sometimes, but you annoy the s**t out of me, while loving me unconditionally,' joked Kerdiles.     In October of 2019, Kerdiles and Chrisley revealed to E !News that they were 'taking some steps back' and, instead of rushing to the alter, were shifting focus on building a 'God-centered relationship.'  Flash forward to 2020, and the engagement is still on, but the couple are happily 'taking [their] time when it comes to the wedding.' 'And taking time to enjoy their relationship,' a rep for Chrisley Knows Best reported to People in October. Kerdiles concluded his Sunday Instagram post with:  'So thank you for that! I am so proud of the woman you’ve become and work to continue being. I love you babe!.'  Chrisley, having seen the sentimental caption, took to the comment section to leave her man a note: 'I love you kid.' The pair originally met through Instagram in 2017. Just five months after her split from her NBA player boyfriend, Luke Kennard.   In December of 2018, Kerdiles would get down on one knee and ask the reality star for her hand in marriage.  Prior to the proposal, Kerdiles was attempting to drop some major hints. 'He sent me a picture of a ring on Instagram one day and it was hideous,' revealed Chrisley exclusively to People.  'I was like no, no, and, then, I immediately sent him a picture of what I liked.' Savannah's mom, Julie Chrisley, had a hand in narrowing it down to that one special ring. 'My mom actually kind of picked out the ring, and so she went and sat down with a jeweler in Nashville and picked out the diamond and all of that. And so, it’s kind of cool to know that she picked it out,' Savannah shared. 
