USA
{ By Associated Press and Keith Griffith For Dailymail.com   Published:  16:17, 29 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7943513/FBI-raids-Los-Angeles-church-make-immigration-fraud-bust.html }
Federal agents have raided a Philippines-based church in Los Angeles and accused church leaders of a decades-long scheme to arrange sham marriages to keep followers in the U.S., where they were tricked into raising funds for leaders' lavish lifestyles.  The local leader of the Kingdom of Jesus Christ church was arrested on immigration fraud charges in the early morning bust along with a worker who confiscated passports of the victims of the scheme and another who handled finances, the U.S. attorney's office said. The FBI says some $20 million in donations that were ostensibly for needy children in the Philippines was actually used to support the luxury lifestyle of church leader Apollo Quiboloy in Davao City. Much of the funds were raised by members who worked in slave-like conditions soliciting donations full time, and the phony marriages were used to keep the most effective workers in the U.S., according to investigators.  Workers who managed to escape from the church told the FBI that they had been sent across the U.S. to work long hours soliciting donations for the church´s charity and were beaten and psychologically abused if they didn't make daily quotas, according to an affidavit filed in support of the charges.  Some described having to live in cars at truck stops. The immigrants essentially became full-time workers, sometimes referred to as 'miracle workers,' in a crusade to raise money for the nonprofit Children´s Joy Foundation USA, which was supposed to benefit poor children in their homeland.  But the complaint said most of the money raised was used to finance church operations and the lavish lifestyle of church leader Apollo Quiboloy. Between 2014 and the middle of last year, $20 million was sent back to the church in the Philippines, the FBI said. 'Most of these funds appear to derive from street-level solicitation,' according to the affidavit by FBI Special Agent Anne Wetzel. 'Little to no money solicited appears to benefit impoverished or in-need children.' Calls to the church for comment were not immediately answered. Arrested during Wednesday's raids were: Investigators documented 82 sham marriages over a 20-year period between top fundraisers and church members who were U.S. citizens. In addition to raiding the church's Van Nuys compound, agents were conducting searches at other Los Angeles-area locations and at two places in Hawaii linked to the church. Two years ago, a leader of a Hawaii branch of the church was arrested smuggling cash onto a private plane in Honolulu bound for the Philippines with Quiboloy on board, according to court records . Investigators said Felina Salinas declared she was carrying $40,000 but investigators said they discovered $335,000 and $9,000 in Australian currency stuffed in socks in her carry-on suitcase, according to documents filed in U.S. District Court in Honolulu. U.S. law requires that travelers declare currency in excess of $10,000. Prosecutors said a witness saw Salinas and Quiboloy order church members to smuggle hundreds of thousands of dollars in black socks packed in suitcases from California to the Philippines in 2013 and 2014. A defense lawyer questioned the credibility of the witness in the Hawaii case. 'I have a woman who says she saw $100,000 go from California to the Philippines, then she said it was two or three million,' attorney Michael Green said, according to Hawaii News Now. 'She says it was put in socks. They must have parishioners with size 18 feet because the socks must have been really big.' 
