USA
{ By Leah Simpson For Dailymail.com   Published:  14:14, 29 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7942811/Allen-Iversons-backpack-containing-jewelry-worth-500-000-returned-man-stole-hotel.html }
Allen Iverson's backpack containing $500,000 worth of jewelry has been returned after surveillance camera caught a man strolling into a Pennsylvania hotel lobby before he stole it. Christopher Daniel, 21, turned himself in to police in Warminster Tuesday after his image was shared with the public.  Police say he confessed to snatching the bag on Monday around 10.30am from the Sofitel Philadelphia at Rittenhouse Square and handed over the valuables.  At the time of the theft, the 76ers legend, 44, was in the hotel but wasn't in the lobby. A friend of the retired NBA star was taking care of the bag but when he left it on a chair, Daniel took the opportunity to steal it, a source told WPVI. It's unclear if Daniel was aware of what was inside the bag or whether he knew who owned it. The North Philadelphia man has a history of thefts. Daniel now faces multiple charges of theft.  'As of (Tuesday), the jewelry that was stolen from Allen Iverson has been found and the suspect has been apprehended,' Iverson's representative said.  'Allen thanks the Philadelphia Police Department along with the people of Philadelphia for their support in this matter. Thank you.'  Iverson is estimated to have made over $200million in his career – although it has been reported he blew through $155million of his fortune.  He regularly wears a custom made watch from Diamonds 360 and a diamond-encrusted crucifix necklace. He is reported to step out in $3million worth of jewelry at a time. In 2012, TMZ reported that Aydin & Company Jewelers sued him for an unpaid bill of $375,000 in 2010.   A Virginia native, Iverson left the NBA in 2013 after playing his last game for the Sixers in 2010. He spent 11 out of 14 seasons with the Sixers and was inducted in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 2016.  Iverson still attends 76ers games at the Wells Faro Center and was last seen there Saturday to watch LeBron James and the Los Angeles Lakers. The theft came at a tough time for Iverson.  On Monday, Iverson had paid tribute to his former Team USA teammate Kobe Bryant who one was of nine people to die in a private helicopter crash, alongside 13-year-old daughter Gianna, on Sunday.  'Words cannot express how I’m feeling today. The only 2 words than ring in my head- devastated and heartbroken. I cannot seem to shake this feeling no matter what I’ve tried to do since hearing this yesterday,' he said in a long statement on Facebook.  'People will always remember how we competed against each other in the league but it goes so much deeper than that for me. The story of us being drafted in arguably the deepest class of its kind ever in the history of the NBA can be debated for many years to come. However, his generosity and respect for the game is something that I witnessed first-hand every time we stepped on the dance floor to compete.  'It's one memory of him that I can't stop thinking about, It was our rookie season and my first trip to LA for a game against the Lakers. (Bryant) came to my hotel, picked me up and took me to a restaurant. When we returned (and) before he left, he asked me, "What are you going to do tonight?" 'My reply was, "I'm going to the club. What are you going to do?" He said, "I'm going to the gym." 'That's who he always was, a true student of the game of basketball and also the game of life.' He added: 'We are not okay. But we will find the strength to pull through this together because that’s what Kobe would want us to do.'  
