USA
{ By Kevin Kayhart For Dailymail.com   Published:  07:04, 29 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7941367/90-Day-Fianc-Way-stars-Ronald-Smith-Tiffany-Franco-spark-war-words-split.html }
Tiffany Franco and Ronald Smith first met while she was on vacation in South Africa. They then documented their budding relationship by appearing on the reality show, 90 Day Fiancé: The Other Way, that stopped airing in October 2019. Now some three months later and the couple have announced their split, via Instagram, which in turn has quickly morphed into a messy case of 'he said, she said' that includes claims of infidelity. Franco was the first to take to social media on Tuesday, where she explained their decision to break up and thanked fans.     'Unfortunately I have to announce that Ronald and I will be separating,' she began in her statement on her Insta-Story. 'I wanted to be the first to let you know rather than hiding it and putting on a facade for social media. Thank you guys for following our story we really love each other but some things are just irreparable. We both deserve much better than we can offer at the moment.'  She concluded the message with, 'lots of love from us.' Smith wasted little time in debunking any ideas that the message was from the two of them, all the while accusing Franco of being unfaithful. 'Sorry to inform you all that I have decided to leave Tiffany due to certain reasons,' he wrote on his Instagram Stories that has since been deleted, according to Us Weekly.  'Thank you for following our story but unfortunately it just didn't work for me. I’ll be filing for divorce in [South Africa] since she isn't even registered in USA as married. Talk about adultery.'    Not wanting to her ex to have the last word, Franco again turned to Instagram to make her case and deny the cheating allegations. 'When a toxic person can no longer manipulate you they will try to manipulate the way others see you. Truer words have never been spoken,' she wrote in her response. 'I wish nothing but good things for Ronald but I won’t waste one more second being taken for granted and being unhappy.'  Franco then denied being unfaithful to Smith, calling his post 'an attempt at trying to make me seem like the cause of the separation.' She ended by adding, 'He can continue to lash out and say all the negative things he wants about me... all I did was love him too much and try hard to make things work.'    Smith maintained he did everything he could to save the marriage. 'She wants answers, I answer, she wants reports, I report. Yet wasn’t good enough for her, she's very controlling bossy didn't really love me. I was a pet to her caged up because if I wanted to go somewhere it ended in [an] argument.' The couple had a baby girl named Carley during their time together. Franco also has a son, Daniel, from a previous relationship.    
