USA
{ By Chloe-lee Longhetti For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  22:37, 28 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7936663/5SOS-guitarist-Michael-Clifford-snaps-stunning-2-9-mansion-Los-Angeles.html }
5 Seconds of Summer guitarist Michael Clifford has reportedly snapped up a stunning $2.9million mansion in California.  According to the Los Angeles Times, the 24-year-old purchased the pad in LA's Valley Village, located in the San Fernando Valley. According to the publication, the deal for the home was completed on New Year's Eve.   The stunning property features eight bedrooms, 10 bathrooms and a luxurious pool.  There is a main house and a back guesthouse - and at least two fire pits for outdoor entertaining.  Inside the home, there is stunning decor - white tiles, white walls and high ceilings, as well as luxe white furniture.   The pad sits on less than half an acre of land, and also features manicured gardens and an indoor-outdoor screening room.  It was sold by listing agent Federico Rolon. 'I was looking for a place to throw a party,' Michael told Nova's Fitzy and Wippa pf the purchase during the G'Day USA gala over the weekend.  He also revealed to the radio hosts that he asked his 5SOS bandmates to be his groomsmen. 'This is actually the first time I've said this but I've asked all these guys to be my groomsmen,' Michael explained on the red carpet.   Lead singer Luke Hemmings added: 'The clock was running out. We were a bit worried. "When is he gonna ask us?"' Bass player Calum Hood will be Michael's best man.  'We were talking about it for a long time and the only reason I picked Calum is I've known him the longest,' Michael explained.   Michael proposed to fiancée Crystal Leigh in January 2019 after three years of dating. 5SOS was formed in western Sydney in 2011 by Michael, Luke, Calum and drummer Ashton Irwin when all four members were in school. The band is known for hits including She Looks So Perfect, Lie to Me and Want You Back.  
