{ By Kellie Chudzinski For Dailymail.com and David Lawrance For Dailymail.com   Published:  04:50, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8031379/Emmy-Rossum-continues-amazing-transformation-80s-Los-Angeles-icon-Angelyne-mini-series.html }
She is best known for playing young and free-spirited Fiona Gallagher on Shameless.  But for her latest role, Emmy Rossum has completely transformed into 80s Los Angeles based model Angelyne, for a new TV mini series Peacock. The 33-year-old actress was the spitting image of the billboard icon when she was spotted filming in Los Angeles on Friday.  Rossum looked many years older as she had aged prosthetic makeup beneath her pink eye shadow and lipstick and heavy cats eye eyeliner. She donned a pink mini-dress, with a textured design, along with a matching fluffy jacket and wedge heels.  Her signature brunette tresses were covered with a bleach blonde wig, with bangs, for the scenes on a sidewalk.  The upcoming TV series was created by Emmy's husband Sam Esmail, the man behind USA Network's Mr. Robot. Filming took place on the sidewalks and in an unknown store front.  A pink corvette, similar to the one famously owned by Angelyne was spotted in the shots.  Rossum was also spotted in a cozy outfit on set, still in her wig and makeup.  She wore a baggy blue zip-up sweatshirt, pink and black polka dot pajama pants and grey sneakers.  The Shameless actress looked busy with a coffee in her hand, and checking her cellphone.   Earlier this week, filming took place on the Sunset Strip for the series.   Angelyne, now 69, became a self-created pop culture icon in the 1980s after numerous billboards appeared around Los Angeles bearing her image and the name 'Angelyne'.  She claimed the billboards were funded by the inventor of Hugo's Amazing Tape, Hugo Maisnik. The singer and actress became known for her peroxide tresses and love of pink attire, eventually parlaying her notoriety into appearances in films like 1988's Earth Girls Are Easy and 2017's The Disaster Artist. In 2003, Angelyne (born Renee Goldberg)  ran for governor of California, finishing 28th out of 135 candidates.  Angelyne remained a mysterious figure, until her true identity was revealed in 2017. She was born in Poland in 1950, to parents who had both survived the Holocaust On Wednesday, Emmy announced that Angelyn-born Ronia (Renee) Tamar Goldberg- would be an executive producer on the series, via her Instagram account.   Emmy has proven a versatile actress over the years, after first gaining notice for her role as Katie Markum in the Clint Eastwood directed 2003 film Mystic River. She then made her name after starring as Fiona Gallagher in Shameless for nine seasons. Rossum left the hit Showtime comedy-drama series last year.  
