USA
{ By Gillian Fisher For Mailonline   Published:  00:00, 22 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8030441/James-Bond-fans-rejoice-poster-Daniel-Craigs-final-007-film-No-Time-Die-debuts-online.html }
It was confirmed as Daniel Craig's final Bond film in November 2019. And 007 fans rejoiced as the poster for new film No Time to Die debuted online on Friday. The black and white poster showed an intense looking James Bond shielded behind a bullethole-riddled windscreen, with the secret agent's sultry eyes picked out in blue. The image also featured a windswept Léa Seydoux, who reprises her role as Dr Madeline Swann, in the new film due for release on April 2.  No Time to Die is the 25th film featuring MI5 heartthrob James Bond and it is also the last time Daniel, 51, will step into the secret agent's dress shoes. The actor broke hearts in November when he told USA Today he would be hanging up his tuxedo after playing Bond for the fifth time.  Knives Out star Daniel has failed to beat the record for playing the leading role in a Bond film, as veteran actors Roger Moore and Sean Connery remain tied at seven movies.  The Layer Cake star told the publication: 'I've had a really good run, and I think doing this movie was the right thing to do,' Craig tells USA TODAY. 'It was the right thing to do one more.'  Father of two Daniel is certainly going out with a bang as the James Bond franchise is set to pull out all the stops in the momentous 25th film.     The incredible first trailer released last week was crammed with high octane car chases, explosions, gun fights and wild plane rides.  The 30 second clip included scenes with Rami Malek, Ralph Fiennes, Léa, Ana de Armas and Lashanna Lynch. The action-packed thriller is directed by Cary Joji Fukunaga, from a script he co-wrote with Neal Purvis, Robert Wade and Fleabag creator Phoebe Waller-Bridge. Bond's newest theme song has been penned by Grammy-Award winning singer/songwriter Billie Eilish, who told  BBC Breakfast that Daniel Craig had to approve her melody.  Musical judge Daniel first took on the iconic role, based upon the novels by Ian Flemming in 2006 when he portrayed Bond in Casino Royale. The blonde hunk caused quite a stir in the film, largely due to a particularly snug pair of blue swimming trunks which he wore during a beach scene.    It is unclear whether the romance between herself and James will be rekindled after their frenzied relationship in 2015's Spectre. Dr Swann may have competition, as new Bond girl Ana de Armas, 31, plays beautiful CIA agent Paloma.   
