{ By Nikki Schwab, Senior U.s. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com In Iowa City, Iowa   Published:  03:09, 28 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7935955/This-like-Alice-Wonderland-says-Biden-center-Trumps-impeachment-saga.html }
A fired up former Vice President Joe Biden likened his role in President Trump's impeachment scandal to that of 'Alice in Wonderland.'  'This is crazy, just think about it,' Biden marveled at a Monday night event at the University of Iowa, as he described Trump getting impeached 'for trying to get a foreign leader to say something against an opponent' - that opponent being him.  'This is like "Alice in Wonderland,"' Biden said.  The 2020 contender's comments came in the hours following Trump attorney Pam Bondi putting Biden and his son Hunter front-and-center in the Senate impechment trial.  Biden ignored questions from reporters about Bondi's presentation when he left an afternoon event in Marion, Iowa, but he addressed it, sort of, during the evening event.  He used a line he had deployed during the Iowa debate, held earlier this month, explaining that presidents can't maintain a beef.  'Folks, look, president's can't hold grudges. These guys are attacking me and my family,' Biden said. 'The press corps with me, they're all good people following me, they keeping asking, "oh, they brought up your son Hunter and they're doing this and that and the other thing."'  'Well, guess what, I don't hold grudges because presidents can't hold grudges,' the former vice president said, adding that president's 'have to be healers.' At Monday events, Biden savaged Trump for not being up to the job.  Biden, who served in the Senate for decades and was added to President Obama's ticket for his foreign policy prowess, pointed to the recent rocket attacks Iran launched onto U.S. bases in Iraq - retribution for Trump's decision to kill Iranian general Qassem Soleimani outside the Baghdad airport earlier this month.   The ex-veep recalled how while in Davos, Switzerland, Trump had made light of the traumatic brain injuries suffered by Americans in the attack.  'What did he say? He said, "well, they just had headaches,"' Biden said at his Iowa City event Monday. 'What in God's name is going on in this country when youre commander-in-chief says that?'  Biden also debuted new stump speech lines, that he deployed at both events.  'Do not believe we're the dark angry nation that Donald tweets about every morning,' Bidens aid. 'I do not believe we're a nation that puts kids in cages and supports it.'  He also said the U.S. wasn't a nation that 'embraces white supremacy' or dismisses the free press.  'I don't believe we're the nation that bows down to Vladimir Putin, for God's sake,' Biden said in Marion. He added a, 'I sure as hell will not!' when he delivered the line in front of the University of Iowa crowd later that night.   'Let's get the heck up and take back this country now!' he urged the crowd.  He later crashed another student event at the University of Iowa - for Dance Marathon, which raises money for cancer - and spoke to the young people about the important work they were doing.   Biden is staying in the Hawkeye State through next Monday's first-in-the-nation caucuses, traveling on a big Biden bus.  A week out, polling in Iowa has been all over the place.  An Emerson poll had Sen. Bernie Sanders out in front with 30 per cent support, followed by Biden with 21 per cent.  In a surprising third place came Sen. Amy Klobuchar, hop-scotching both Sen. Elizabeth Warren and former South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg, who usually round out the top four.  In the Emerson poll, Klobuchar had 13 per cent support, Warren had 11 and Buttigieg came in with 10 per cent.  Warren came in fourth place in both the Emerson poll and the USA Today/Suffolk poll, which also came on Monday. Otherwise the top of the field was scrambled.  The USA Today survey showed Biden in front at 25 per cent support, Sanders in second at 19 per cent and then Buttigieg in third with 18 per cent.  Warren has 13 per cent support in the USA Today poll, while Klobuchar is at 6 per cent, which is closer to what she's been polling for most of the primary so far.  Candidates must amass 15 per cent of caucus-goers from a particular site in Iowa to be viable to pick up delegates, which is how they eventually win the nomination. That could put Warren, Buttigieg and Klobuchar in a precarious position as they're hovering right around the 15 per cent mark.  Biden has felt the sting of the Iowa caucuses before.  While he finished a respectable fifth place in the Iowa caucuses in January 2008, he only garnered 1 per cent of the counted vote - because he didn't meet the threshold at most caucus sites.  Biden decided to throw in the towel instead of carrying on after his Iowa performance 12 years ago.   
