{ By Alex Raskin Sports News Editor For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:24, 27 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7935889/Social-media-accounts-NFL-teams-hacked-cyber-group-OurMine.html }
The NFL and several of its teams had their Twitter accounts hacked on Monday by a group calling itself 'OurMine.'  'Hi, we're Back (OurMine),' read several since-deleted tweets that appeared on the Buffalo Bills, Chicago Bears, Houston Texans, and Kansas City Chiefs' Twitter accounts. 'We are here to Show people that everything is hackable.' The hackers then offer to help their victims 'improve' the security of their respective Twitter accounts, according to USA Today. The Instagram page for the Minnesota Vikings was also hacked, according to multiple reports. The NFL released a statement on Tuesday.  'On Monday, the NFL Cybersecurity department became aware of a breach of a league-related social media account,' the statement began. 'Targeted breaches and additional failed attempts were discovered across the league and team accounts.  'The NFL took immediate action and directed the teams to secure their social media accounts and prevent further unauthorized access. Simultaneously, the league alerted the social media platform providers and, with their assistance, secured all league and club accounts. We continue to work diligently with the teams, which have resumed normal operations. 'The NFL and teams are cooperating with its social media platform providers and law enforcement.' According to NBC Chicago, the same group hacked the Chicago Bears' account on Sunday, announcing that the team had been sold to Saudi Arabian royal family adviser Turki Al-Sheikh. That since-deleted tweet was followed by another plug for the group. 'Just kidding,' the response from OurMine began. 'Hi we're OurMine. We are here for 2 things: 1) Announce that we are back. 2) Show people that everything is hackable. 'To improve your accounts (sic) security contact us: contact@ourmine.org. 'For security services visit: ourmine.org 'Follow @OurM1ne for news.' The @OurM1ne account has been suspended by Twitter, which released a statement on the hackings to the New York Post. 'As soon as we were made aware of the issue, we locked the compromised accounts and we are currently investigating the situation,' Jen Santamaria said.  
