USA
{ By Roxy Simons For Mailonline   Published:  11:42, 27 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7933673/Will-Ferrell-joins-chic-Downhill-star-Julia-Louis-Dreyfus-films-Sundance-premiere.html }
Some of Hollywood's most exciting hidden gems are first screened at the Sundance Film Festival. And Will Ferrell joined his Downhill co-stars Julia Louis-Dreyfus, 59, and Kristofer Hivju for the film's premiere, which took place in Park City, Utah, on Sunday. The actor, 52, kept things casual for the outing as he teamed a grey sweater with a white paisley-print shirt and smart trousers. Julia looked effortlessly chic in a black maxi-dress that she cinched at the waist with a stylish monochrome belt. Her raven tresses were styled into glamorous waves, while she wore a light palette of make-up to accentuate her pretty features.  Game Of Thrones' Kristofer put on a dapper display for the occasion as he stepped out in a brown suit and an open-collared white shirt. The actor, who was known for playing Tormund Giantsbane in the fantasy epic, was supported by his wife Gry at the premiere. The director, who has been married to Kristofer since 2015, looked sensational in a red sequinned jumpsuit which she offset with a black clutch bag. Gry's fiery-locks cascaded over her shoulders in glamorous waves, and she wore a slick of lip gloss to accentuate her plump pout. In the film Will and Julia play a couple who escapes an avalanche during a family ski vacation in the Alps before a split decision causes the couple to take a step back and figure out how they feel about one another. 'It was daunting, except to say that we never would have done it if we didn't have Ruben's blessing,' Julia said in an interview with Variety during the Sundance Film Festival. 'We've all had Force Majeure moments in our lives,' said producer Anthony Bregman about the film.  'We're all subject to doing the wrong thing at the wrong time, and that becoming larger than the thing itself. It's the very idea that something like the avalanche could be extrapolated into something much bigger.' Downhill is released in cinemas across the USA on February 14, while it'll be screened in the UK from February 28.  
