USA
{ By Annita Katee For Dailymail.com   Published:  18:46, 26 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7931747/Olivia-Newton-John-proves-theres-no-animosity-Grease-2-star-Michelle-Pfeiffer.html }
Olivia Newton-John previously stated she 'didn't think much' of Grease 2.  But the 71-year-old has now proved her thoughts had nothing against star, Michelle Pfeiffer, 61.  The duo shared a sweet photo together when they caught up at the G'Day USA Gala in Los Angeles on Saturday night.  'Look who I ran into last night - the original Pink Lady,' captioned Michelle.  Michelle stunned in a white oversized blazer for the annual gala.  Olivia also kept things classy in a patterned blouse and a pair of trousers.  While the ladies posed up a storm, they were seen with their heads nestled towards each other and holding hands tightly.  Their sweet appearance comes after Olivia was asked what she thought of Grease 2 while on Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen back in 2016.  'Not a lot,' she honestly replied.   'I kinda remember they did ask us, I think they approached John [Travolta] and I to do it and then it didn't happen and I didn't think it was going to happen.' 'And then they made it with other people. So that's my memory of it.'  And like most years, Olivia's Grease co-star, John Travolta was there to support her at the event on Saturday night.   The actor sported his bald head in a black and white suit combo.  Olivia also gave fans a health update while walking on the carpet, following her stage-four breast cancer battle.   'Life is a gift. I have an amazing life and I intend to keep going with it,' Olivia said to Daily Mail Australia.  'I want to help [other] people with [the disease]. I want to see an end to cancer in my lifetime so other people don't have to suffer.' Olivia revealed she had been diagnosed with cancer for the third time in September 2019.  'I am winning over it and living with it well,' she continued on Saturday. 'I don't think about it a lot [the diagnosis] to be honest. Denial is a wonderful thing. I am getting stronger and better all the time.'  She was joined at the event with her husband, John Easterling and niece Tottie Goldsmith.     
