USA
{ By Marta Jary For Daily Mail Australia and James Desborough for MailOnline   Published:  14:57, 26 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7931385/John-Travolta-reveals-hes-kept-friendship-Olivia-Newton-John-strong-40-years.html }
John Travolta and Olivia Newton-John became firm friends on the set of Grease in 1978 - and they've been close ever since.  On Saturday, the best mates reunited at the G'Day USA event in Beverly Hills, but the 65-year-old actor says he and the 71-year-old actress never really lost touch.  When asked how the pair maintain their '40-plus year relationship', John told Daily Mail Australia:  'We love each other and when you love people you stay in touch.'  He added that he was looking forward to catching up with the Australian actress at the event, which is proudly sponsored by Stan. 'We are going to rekindle our rapport tonight. Me as an honorary Aussie and Olivia as an actual Aussie,' he said.  In December last year, Olivia and John Travolta reunited in their iconic Grease costumes for the first time since they appeared in the 1978 musical movie. The actress took to Instagram to share a snap of the pair in their iconic looks, ahead of the Meet 'n' Grease singalong event in Florida.  The pair, who play Danny Zuko and Sandy Olsson in the iconic film, looked just like they did over 40 years ago.  John said of the singalong event was, 'a glorious experience... [it was] one of the highlights of our lives to return as Sandy and Danny.'   The actor also discussed Olivia's battle with breast cancer, telling Daily Mail Australia: 'Olivia is a survivor, she is smart and she has a lot of life in her.  'She just looks at it as, the glass is half full. That is her beautiful, natural approach to her life and I think we all need to do that'.    After meeting on the set of Grease, John and Olivia starred as lovers on the big screen a second time, in the 1983 fantasy romance, Two of a Kind.  Discussing their relationship last year, John told People Magazine: 'When you share that kind of meteoric success [such as Grease] - and nothing has been able to exceed it - you share a bond.  'I've been through her having a child, getting divorced, losing her sister. She's been through my getting married, having children.'   The Saturday Night Fever actor added: 'It's wonderful and full of shared memories'.  Streaming service Stan is a proud sponsor of G'Day USA.  
