USA
{ By Kristy Johnson and James Desborough For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  14:55, 26 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7931383/Olivia-Newton-John-breast-cancer-diagnosis-not-battle.html }
Olivia Newton-John doesn't see her third breast cancer diagnosis as a 'battle'. Speaking to Daily Mail Australia at G'Day USA in Los Angeles on Saturday, the 71-year-old said that she is 'getting stronger and better all the time'. The Australian actress revealed in September 2018 that she was battling cancer for the third time.    'Life is a gift. I have an amazing life and I intend to keep going with it,' Olivia said on the red carpet. 'I want to help [other] people with [the disease].  'I want to see an end to cancer in my lifetime so other people don't have to suffer,' she continued.  Olivia added that she doesn't see her health issues as a 'battle'. 'I am winning over it and living with it well,' she said. 'I don't think about it a lot [the diagnosis] to be honest. Denial is a wonderful thing. I am getting stronger and better all the time.' Olivia looked radiant as she walked the red carpet at G'Day USA on Saturday alongside husband John Easterling and niece Tottie Goldsmith.   The Xanadu star opted for a black and gold blouse, teamed with coordinating trousers, black boots and a tailored jacket. Her cropped blonde tresses were styled in waves, and her makeup included defined brows, kohl-lined eyes and a glossy nude lip.    Olivia revealed in September 2018 that she was battling cancer for the third time since her first diagnosis more than 25 years ago.   The four-time Grammy winner was first diagnosed with breast cancer in 1992, undergoing a partial mastectomy and reconstruction. Olivia battled cancer for a second time in 2013, but kept the illness private.  She told The Daily Telegraph on Sunday that her tumours are receding, and how using medicinal cannabis and natural remedies has improved her health.  Olivia told the publication: 'My tumours are receding or they're going away or they're staying the same, on a Stage 4 metastatic breast cancer — that's pretty amazing.'  Streaming service Stan is a proud sponsor of G'Day USA.   
