USA
{ By Associated Press   Published:  14:52, 26 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/ap/article-7931445/Taubitz-takes-World-Cup-lead-Fischnaller-continues-surge.html }
SIGULDA, Latvia (AP) - Germany큦 Julia Taubitz moved into the World Cup women큦 standings lead on Sunday, while Italy큦 Dominik Fischnaller continued his late-season surge in the race for the men큦 overall title. Taubitz won a World Cup sprint race and that finish, combined with a third-place showing from Russia큦 Tatyana Ivanova, was enough for Taubitz to take over the women큦 lead. Taubitz holds a 13-point lead over Ivanova with three races left. Russia큦 Viktoriia Demchenenko was second on Sunday and is third in the standings, though she큦 so far back of Taubitz and Ivanova that a title is extremely unlikely. She could be mathematically eliminated as early as next weekend in Oberhof, Germany. For the U.S., Emily Sweeney was 14th in the women큦 sprint. Sweeney was the only USA Luge sled to qualify for the three sprint races on Sunday. Fischnaller was second in the men큦 sprint, cutting the gap with standings leader Roman Repilov of Russia basically in half. Fischnaller was 111 points behind Repilov entering the sprint and is now within 58 points of the lead. Semen Pavlichenko of Russia won the men큦 sprint, followed by Fischnaller and Austria큦 David Gleirscher. Earlier Sunday, in the World Cup men's full-length luge race, Germany's Johannes Ludwig won, followed by Repilov and Gleirscher. Winner Johannes Ludwig, of Germany, center, second placed Roman Repilov of Russia, left, and third placed David Gleirscher of Austria celebrate on the podium after a men's race at the Luge World Cup event in in Sigulda, Latvia, Sunday, Jan. 26, 2020. (AP Photo/Roman Koksarov) In the doubles sprint, Latvia큦 Kristens Putins and Imants Marcinkevics were the surprise winners, holding off two teams - Italy큦 Emanuel Rieder and Simon Kainzwaldner and Latvia큦 Andris Sics and Juris Sics - by only seven-thousandths of a second. The Rieder-Kainzwaldner and Sics-Sics teams shared the silver. Even without medals in the doubles sprint Sunday, the German sled of Toni Eggert and Sascha Benecken remained in the World Cup points lead, 60 points ahead of fellow Germans Tobias Wendl and Tobias Arlt. Those are the only two teams left with a realistic chance of winning the season-long title. 
