USA
{ By Kylie Walters For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  12:34, 26 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7930675/The-Voice-Australias-new-host-Renee-Bargh-Delta-Goodrem-dazzle-red-carpet-GDay-USA.html }
Renee Bargh has just been announced as the new co-host of The Voice, Australia. And Delta Goodrem released her single Let It Rain earlier this month, with all proceeds going towards bushfire relief.   On Saturday, the Aussie golden girls took a night off as they dazzled on the red carpet at the G'Day USA event in Los Angeles, which is sponsored by Stan. Renee is more used to covering ritzy event arrivals and interviewing celebrities for her role at Extra TV than walking the red carpet. But the 33-year-old stole the show in a strapless, full length white gown which accentuated her trim and toned figure. The TV host wore her blonde tresses pulled into a sleek pony tail which she let fall over her shoulder.  She chose to keep her makeup light and feminine, with a pink lip and a sun-kissed glow.  Renee added a pair of powering heels in black with a pointed design, and opted for minimal accessories.  A pair of gold hoop earrings and a number of smaller earrings added some bling.  Renee was delighted to meet up with her good friend Delta Goodrem on the arrivals carpet.  The 35-year-old singer looked chic in a fitted black tuxedo which showed off her height. Underneath the loose-fitting blazer she wore a sheer button-up black blouse that showed off a glimpse of her black bra.  The Born to Try singer's shoulder length bob was worn in lose waves around her face.  Delta opted for glamorous make-up with a smoky eye, bronzed cheek and a pink lip, with a hint of highlight.  Keeping things simple, Delta skipped accessories, went without a bag and finished off the look with black and gold pumps. The former Neigbours star was happy to support this years G'Day USA event which is being used as a fundraiser to support reliefs efforts following Australia's catastrophic bushfire season.  Delta will be joining a host of artists performing at Fire Fight Australia in Sydney on February 16, which will be hosted by Celeste Barber.  It aims to raise funds for bushfire relief, with Delta set to perform Let It Rain.  
