USA
{ By Jessamy Tredinnick and Kristy Johnson For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  06:09, 26 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7929631/Naomi-Watts-cuts-stylish-figure-purple-lace-leads-star-arrivals-GDay-USA-event-LA.html }
She's the award-winning actress best known for her iconic roles in King Kong and Mulholland Drive. And on Saturday, Australian star Naomi Watts cut a stylish figure in a purple lace dress, as she led the red carpet arrivals at the G'Day USA event in Los Angeles, proudly sponsored by Australian streaming service Stan.  The 51-year-old turned heads in the intricate frock, which featured a detailed sheer paneling and long sleeves. Naomi boosted her height with black strappy heels and carried her belongings in a black box clutch.   The ageless beauty framed her face with her sleek natural blonde bob, accessorising with a gemstone necklace and a chunky crystal ring.  With such a bold ensemble, Naomi chose to keep her makeup light and feminine, with a peachy lip and matching blushed cheeks. Olivia Newton-John looked beautiful as she posed with husband John Easterling and her niece Tottie Goldsmith. The 71-year-old Grease icon opted for a black and gold blouse, teamed with coordinating trousers, black boots and a tailored jacket. Her cropped blonde tresses were styled in waves, and her makeup included defined brows, kohl-lined eyes and a glossy nude lip.   Michelle Pfeiffer looked every inch the A-list star as she walked the red carpet with her producer-husband David E. Kelley. The actress, 61, wore a chic white pantsuit with open-toe black heels, and added a black envelope clutch to the look. Her shoulder-length blonde locks fell effortlessly around an elegant makeup palette.  John Travolta made his presence felt, and looked suave in a crisp white shirt, a fitted black suit jacket and trousers. The 65-year-old Saturday Night Fever star added black dress shoes and a white pocket square.  Liev Schreiber, 52, was another well-dressed male in a grey shirt, a navy suit jacket and trousers, black dress shoes and a narrow black tie. Songstress Delta Goodrem cut a demure yet chic figure in a sheer black blouse, slim-fit trousers and a coordinating suit jacket on top. The 35-year-old boosted her height with black pointy-toe heels, and her beauty look included glossy blonde tresses, lashings of mascara and contoured cheekbones.  Delta posed on the red carpet alongside her close pal and journalist Renee Bargh. The 33-year-old highlighted her slim physique in a strapless white ensemble, and slicked her signature blonde locks into a sleek ponytail. Former Neighbours star Nicky Whelan cosied up to her new boyfriend Kyle Schmid. The 38-year-old actress wore a pale pink frock with billowing sleeves, and slicked her blonde locks into tight chignon.   Jessica Gomes looked like a boss in a tailored black suit jacket and trousers, which she teamed with a glomesh clutch and a crucifix chain necklace. The 35-year-old styled her brunette locks out, and her makeup was pared back.  Jessica McNamee, 34, opted for a monochrome ensemble, while Peta Murgatroyd, 33, wore an all-black outfit and cosied up to husband Maksim Chmerkovskiy.  Stranger Things' Dacre Montgomery, 25, cut a suave figure in a black dress shirt and white suit as he embraced his model girlfriend Liv Pollock. Rounding off the guest list was pop band 5 Seconds of Summer who beamed on the red carpet.    Streaming service Stan was a proud sponsor for the G'Day USA event.   
