{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  00:37, 26 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7930125/Shock-sevens-semi-berth-Australian-men.html }
Australia have breathed life into their men's Olympic sevens preparations with a bronze-medal performance at the world series tournament in New Zealand. A dominant 33-21 win over England in the play-off for third in Hamilton on Sunday was an appropriate finish for a side producing their best form of the season so far. As a result Australia climb from ninth to fifth equal in the overall standings heading into next week's fourth round in Sydney. Narrow losses to powerhouses Fiji and New Zealand, were offset by comprehensive wins over England, Argentina and Samoa, the latter two victories coming in pool play. Australia were unlucky not to topple the Kiwis in their semi-final, going down 17-14, freeing the tournament hosts to go on and clinch gold with a 27-5 defeat of France in the final. Up 14-5 at halftime in the trans-Tasman contest, Australia's hopes were blitzed by a yellow card shown to Maurice Longbottom for a deliberate knock-on. New Zealand capitalised with two tries in the two minutes the playmaker was in the sin bin. A desperate Australia could not add to their first-half tries to captain Nick Malouf and Henry Hutchison. They took their frustration out on England, racing to a 33-7 lead on the back of five unanswered tries, including a pair to Hutchison, before England bagged two late consolation scores. Rookie Josh Turner also scored in that match, and was the standout performer in the earlier 33-19 pool win over Samoa. "Josh had an outstanding weekend in the gold jersey, the way he continued to find space and back up for his teammates was second to none," coach Tim Walsh said. "Finishing with such a wet sail against England shows that we are building well and the way we managed to attack the game was really pleasing." The second day was spoiled by a knee injury suffered by Ben O'Donnell against Samoa. The classy back, playing his first tournament of the season since surgery, underwent scans and is likely to miss the Sydney tournament at the very least. The fickle nature of sevens was on show in Hamilton, with usual heavyweights Fiji and South Africa finding themselves playing off for ninth. France have been a revelation this season and came close to a maiden title, only falling away late in the decider as New Zealand skipper Scott Curry bagged a hat-trick to ensure their status as favourites for Sydney. France climb to second-equal in the standings alongside the Blitzboks, 15 points behind the Kiwis with seven rounds to play. STANDINGS AFTER THREE ROUNDS: New Zealand 63 points, South Africa 48, France 48, England 39, Argentina 35, Australia 35, Fiji 31, USA 30 
