USA
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  04:17, 25 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7927759/Key-matches-day-seven-Open.html }
MUST-SEE MATCHES ON DAY SEVEN OF THE AUSTRALIAN OPEN: * 1-Ashleigh Barty (AUS) v 18-Alison Riske (USA) Fresh off a dominant win over Kazakh Elena Rybakina, Barty confronts a potential speed-bump in the 18th-seeded American. Serena Williams is no longer blocking Barty's path to a drought-breaking title at Melbourne Park. But the top seed will be understandably wary of Riske after losing their only previous clash at Wimbledon last year in the wake of her French Open triumph. * 7-Petra Kvitova (CZE) v 22-Maria Sakkari (GRE) Before booking a potential quarter-final battle with Barty, last year's runner-up Kvitova will have to turn the recent tide on surprise packet. Sakkari upset the two-time Wimbledon champion twice last year and is riding a wave of history as the first Greek woman to make the fourth round of a major since Eleni Daniilidou in 2005. But the Czech has been in hot form thus far, dropping just 14 games through her opening three matches. * 32-Milos Raonic (CAN) v Marin Cilic (CRO) Fans can expect a fair bit of firepower as these former Wimbledon finalists lock horns. Cilic and Raonic have lent on their destructive serves over the first week at Melbourne Park, firing down 50 and 47 aces respectively. Fatigue could be a factor. The big-serving Croatian is coming off two gruelling five-setters, while the 32nd-seeded Canadian is still to drop a set after knocking off last year's breakout star Stefanos Tsitsipas. * 2-Novak Djokovic (SRB) v 14-Diego Schwartzman (ARG) Seven-time champion Djokovic has barely raised a sweat since dropping a set to German giant Jan-Lennard Struff in the first round. That's set to change against Schwartzman. Despite holding a 3-0 career record over the diminutive Argentine, history says Djokovic won't have it all his way as he seeks an 11th quarter-finals berth at Melbourne Park. The 14th seed pushed the world No.2 at the Rome Masters last May and fell in a tough five-set match at the French Open in 2017. * Coco Gauff (USA) v 14-Sofia Kenin (USA) Can the Coco bandwagon keep rolling at Melbourne Park? The American teen sensation will be looking to add another seed to her growing list of scalps after ending Naomi Osaka's title defence. But 14th seed Kenin is no slouch, having yet to drop a set this tournament. A maiden quarter-final berth is on the line, with neither Gauff or Kenin having reached the second week at a grand slam. 
