USA
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  23:02, 24 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7927087/Cherry-double-highlights-Aust-sevens-win.html }
Former star Emilee Cherry has exceeded all expectations in her return to the Australian women's sevens team, producing two standout showings on the first day of the World Series tournament leg in New Zealand. Cherry bagged the first two tries of a patchy 24-14 opening pool win over Brazil in Hamilton on Saturday and was at the heart of a vastly-improved 40-12 crushing of Russia. The result sets up a do-or-die final pool game against the unbeaten United States early on Sunday. Under a changed format, quarter-finals have been scrapped, meaning only the three pool winners and the best of the second-placed teams will qualify straight to semi-finals. Australia's confidence has been boosted by the return of Rio Olympic gold medallist Cherry in her first tournament for nearly two years. The former world player of the year, who gave birth to her first child seven months ago, lasted the distance impressively. She bagged a third try for the day against Russia and, even more importantly in the eyes of coach John Manenti, chased back nearly the length of the field to pull off a try-saving tackle. Manenti told AAP his only aspiration for the 27-year-old was to come through both games unscathed. "If it was good, bad or indifferent it didn't matter, I was just happy that she played footy again," he said. "But her smarts were outstanding. Her influence and calm around the group is brilliant. "Emilee knows she's not in the mint condition she'll want to be down the track but even then she's such a competitor in everything she does. It's why for a long time she was one of the top players in the world and no doubt will be again." Manenti said Australia placed too much stock on racking up a big score against lower-ranked Brazil to boost their points differential. Those mistakes dried up when they returned to the basics of ball security and defence against a decent Russian team. They scored six tries, including a first-half double to Cassandra Staples. USA, who won this year's opening tournament on home soil, were third on the overall standings through three rounds behind leaders New Zealand and Australia. Manenti's team lost to the Americans in the bronze play-off at Dubai but bounced back to beat them in pool play at the most recent tournament in Cape Town. The only other unbeaten women's teams on day one of the inaugural tournament were New Zealand, Canada and France. 
