{ By Heidi Parker For Dailymail.com   Published:  21:04, 24 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7926691/Giada-Laurentiis-seen-strolling-boyfriend-Shane-Farley.html }
Giada de Laurentiis has a new love in her life. On Friday the beautiful 49-year-old celebrity chef was seen walking with her dog along with boyfriend Shane Farley while in the Pacific Palisades neighborhood of Los Angeles. The two were side by side as they headed to the organic grocery store Erewhon Market. The brunette star wore a light blue sweater with a black coat that came above her knee and showed off her bare legs. The TV vet added Golden Goose trainers and cat-eye black tinted sunglasses with her hair back. Her beau had on a blue hoodie with rainbow striped in front, adding blue slacks and sneakers. Farley added a cap that was worn backwards.  After the shopping trip, Shane carried the groceries, which seemed to be in only one bag. They passed several cafes and bakeries which were in the downtown neighborhood of the Pacific Palisades, where Tom Hanks and Jennifer Garner also reside.  The couple 49, met in 2013 when Farley was hired to produce a talk show with De Laurentiis and Bobby Flay.  The project never made it, but a romance between the two blossomed; they have been together for almost five years now In 2018 she told People, 'I smile a lot more. After I got divorced, I spent about a year and a half alone, not dating, just figuring things out. I had been with Jade’s dad for 25 years. I didn’t know what it meant to not be married. Once I got settled, [Shane and I] reconnected and I felt like a kid again.'  Giada was born in Rome, Italy, the eldest child of actress Veronica De Laurentiis and her first husband, actor-producer Alex De Benedetti. De Benedetti was a close associate of Giada's maternal grandfather, film producer Dino De Laurentiis who worked on 1968's Barbarella.  Giada learned her cooking skills at her grandfather's restaurant, DDL Foodshow. After her parents' divorce, Giada and her siblings moved to Southern California, where she eventually attended UCLA.  De Laurentiis next studied at Le Cordon Bleu in Paris. When she came back to LA she started working at Spago which led to a show on the Food Network.   An acclaimed chef and cookbook author, Giada is best known as the host of Giada In Italy, Giada At Home, Everyday Italian, and Food Network Star. She shares daughter Jade with her ex-husband Todd Thompson, who she was married to from 2003 to 2015.   
