USA
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  03:32, 24 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-7923563/Key-matches-day-six-Open.html }
MUST-SEE MATCHES ON DAY SIX OF THE AUSTRALIAN OPEN: * 23-Nick Kyrgios (AUS) v 16-Karen Khachanov (RUS) Having overcome a third-set mini-meltdown before downing French veteran Gilles Simon, Kyrgios turns his attention to the challenge posed by Khachanov. Their only previous meeting at last year's Cincinnati Masters was a controversial one, with the Australian losing in three sets and then being fined for abusing the chair umpire. The Russian has started 2020 well, winning four of his five singles matches at the ATP Cup. * 4-Daniil Medvedev (RUS) v Alexei Popyrin (AUS) Popyrin intends to get to the net at every available opportunity, believing it's his only shot of causing an upset against Medvedev. The Russian baseliner is at his very best on hardcourts, as proved when he won 21 of 22 matches on a red-hot streak late last year including a run to the US Open final. Medvedev needed four tight sets to win his only previous match against Popyrin in 2019 at Wimbledon. * 7-Alexander Zverev (GER) b Fernando Verdasco (ESP) Could this be the year that Zverev starts making deep runs at majors on a surface other than clay? The German is certainly off to a good start, winning both of his opening matches in straight sets. Spanish veteran Verdasco is playing in his 67th successive major, with his best result a semi-final showing at Melbourne Park back in 2009. * 5-Elina Svitolina (UKR) v Garbine Muguruza (ESP) The consistent Svitolina keeps knocking on the door, having reached the quarter-finals at the past two Australian Opens and the semis at her two most recent slams. But she is yet to take the next step. Despite being unseeded, Muguruza boasts a genuine major pedigree, having lifted the trophy at the French Open in 2016 and Wimbledon the following year. The Spaniard beat Australian Ajla Tomljanovic in the second round. * 16-Elise Mertens (BEL) v CiCi Bellis (USA) Former teen prodigy Bellis is one of the feelgood stories of the Open, having recovered from four bouts of surgery, including one instance where surgeons had to break her right arm in half to save her tennis career. Now ranked 600 in the world, and playing her first major in two years, Bellis powered past 20th seed Karolina Muchova in the second round to set up the clash with No.16 Mertens. The Belgian is also yet to drop a set this year at Melbourne Park, a venue she clearly enjoys, having reached the semis here in 2018. 
