USA
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  01:45, 24 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7923189/Three-U-S-firefighters-killed-water-bomber-crash-mourned-state-memorial.html }
It was a sombre goodbye for the 32 US and Canadian firefighters who are heading home after battling blazes across NSW this summer. NSW Emergency Services Minister David Elliott and NSW Rural Fire Seervice Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons on Friday farewelled the 24 Canadian and eight US firefighters who have been helping NSW crews for the past 35 days. Their farewell was described as 'sweet sorrow' by Mr Elliott after the death of three US firefighters when their air tanker crashed while battling bushfires in southern NSW on Thursday. A minute's silence was held during the farewell breakfast on Friday. 'In my house when we farewell guests after their stay there's a black hole when they go,' Mr Elliott said at the farewell event in Sydney. 'That's what we're going to find with you guys.' Mr Elliott thanked the crews for their contribution in what will be remembered as one of the 'darkest summers' in NSW. He also promised to come to the aid of US and Canada if needed in the future. Mr Fitzsimmons said the US and Canadian fire crews made a discernible difference in the firefighting effort. 'What you have been able to provide is some reprieve, some rest for crews who have been going for weeks and months,' he said. The fire chief said the death of the three US firefighters was a 'confronting and sombre' reminder of the extent of this year's fire season. 'We will be forever indebted to the enormous contributions and ultimate sacrifice that's been paid by these extraordinary individuals,' he said. Alaska region fire management officer Chuck Russell said the extreme fire weather and behaviour in NSW was surprising for firefighters. 'The sheer scale on the fire landscape is certainly unprecedented,' he told reporters. 'It's been surprising to some by how much fire is on the ground.' He said each visiting firefighter was glad to come to Australia's aid and grateful for the opportunity to help. 'The Australians have been in it for a marathon,' he said. 'Anything we can do to relieve that burden.' The national death toll of Australia's 2019/2020 bushfire season was 33 as of Monday, February 3, with 25 confirmed deaths in New South Wales, three in South Australia and five in Victoria.  New South Wales:  Robert Lindsey, 77, and Gwen Hyde, 68, were found in their burned out Coongbar home near Casino on October 9th.  New South Wales: The body of 85-year-old George Nole was found in a burnt out car near his home in Wytaliba, near Glen Innes. Vivian Chaplain, a 69-year-old woman from Wytaliba, succumbed to her injuries in hospital after attempting in vain to save her home and animals from the blaze. The body of 63-year-old Julie Fletcher was pulled from a scorched building in Johns River, north of Taree.  Barry Parsons, 58, was found in a shed at Willawarrin, near Kempsey. Chris Savva, 64, died after his 4WD overturned near burnt-out South Arm bridge, near Nambucca Heads. A 59-year-old man was founded sheltered in a Yarrowitch water tank on November 7. He died of injuries on December 29.   Victoria:  David Moresi, 69, died after being involved in a traffic incident while working at the at the Gelantipy fire in East Gippsland on November 30.  New South Wales:    Firefighters Andrew O'Dwyer, 36, and Geoffrey Keaton, 32, died on December 19 after a tree fell on their truck while they were travelling through Buxton, south of Sydney. Samuel McPaul, 28, was battling a blaze in Jingellic, in Green Valley, about 70km east of Albury on the border of NSW and Victoria, on December 30 when a 'fire tornado' caused his 10-tonne firetruck to roll.  South Australia: The body of 69-year-old Ron Selth was found in his Charleston home, which was destroyed by the Cudlee Creek blaze on December 21.  New South Wales:  Dairy farmer Patrick Salway, 29, and his father Robert, 63, died trying to save their property in Cobargo, near Bega, on December 31.  A 70-year-old man, named by local media as Laurie Andrew, was found dead outside a home at Yatte Yattah, west of Lake Conjola. The body of a 70-year-old man was found in a burnt vehicle on a road off the Princes Highway at Yatte Yattah on the morning of New Year's Day. The body of a 62-year-old man was found in a vehicle on Wandra Road at Sussex Inlet about 11.30am on New Year's Day. A body, believed to be a 56-year-old man, found outside a home at Coolagolite, east of Cobargo on New Year's Day. An off-duty RFS firefighter, believed to be 72-year-old Colin Burns, was found near a car in Belowra after the New Year's Eve fires swept through.  Victoria:  Beloved great-grandfather Mick Roberts, 67, from Buchan, in East Gippsland, was found dead at his home on the morning of New Year's Day.  Fred Becker, 75, was the second person to die in Victoria. He suffered a heart attack while trying to defend his Maramingo Creek home. New South Wales: David Harrison, a 47-year-old man from Canberra, suffered a heart attack defending his friend's home near Batlow on Saturday, January 4.  A 71-year-old man was found on January 6. Police have been told the man was last sighted on December 31, 2019 and was moving equipment on his property in Nerrigundah. An 84-year-old man who stayed to defend his home in Cobargo, NSW, dies in hospital three weeks after fire hit. His pet dog Bella, who stayed by his side as fires raged, was also killed in the disaster. Three American firefighters are killed when Coulson Aviation C-130 Hercules water bomber Zeus crashed while fighting fires near Cooma on Thursday January 23. They have been named as Capt. Ian H. McBeth, 44, First Officer Paul Clyde Hudson and Flight Engineer Rick A. DeMorgan Jr, 43. On January 24, Michael Clark, 59, was found in a Bodalla home destroyed by bushfires near the NSW South Coast town of Moruya.  Victoria: Forest Fire Management firefighter Mat Kavanagh, 43, was killed Friday January 3 when he was involved in a two-car crash on the Goulburn Valley Highway. Bill Slade, a 60-year-old father of two from Wonthaggi was fighting fires with Parks Victoria at Omeo when he died on January 11. He has been remembered as one of the longest serving, most experienced and fittest firefighters.   South Australia:  Well-known outback pilot Dick Lang, 78, and his 43-year-old son, Adelaide surgeon Clayton Lang, died in the Kangaroo Island bushfire after their car was trapped by flames.     
