{ By Deirdre Simonds For Dailymail.com   Published:  20:34, 23 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7922331/Neil-Young-finally-American-50-years-living-CA.html }
Nothing is stopping Neil Young from voting against Donald Trump in the 2020 election. Despite delays in his citizenship application after he admitted to marijuana use, the Canadian, 74, singer waved an American flag in victory at the Convention Center in downtown L.A on Wednesday.  The songwriter gripped his citizenship paperwork as he exited the building on an escalator with his wife wearing a big grin.    After 50 years living in California and paying US taxes, it took his Malibu home burning during the Woseley fire in 2018 to urge him to finally become a dual citizen. The Hey Hey, My My singer beamed patriotically as he left the ceremony arm-in-arm with his wife, Daryl Hannah.  When they exited, his other half held his naturalization documents, which Neil proudly displayed earlier.    The couple kept it causal for the milestone moment, but his wife of one year sent a diplomatic message with her peace sign patterned scarf. Neil rocked his signature style in black jeans, matching blazer, an olive shirt and a black fedora.   'I'm happy to report I'm in!!' he wrote on his website after the ceremony, while encouraging fans to 'vote their conscience.'   With all the rights and privileges afforded to an American, Neil will be a powerful force in the voting polls, as a climate change activist and denouncer of Trump.  In 2018, the singer forbade Trump from using his hit song Rockin' in the Free World at his campaign events and is open about his disdain for the president's politics.   On his journey to becoming a citizen, Neil shared news on his website of a major snag.  'I want to be a dual citizen and vote. When I recently applied for American citizenship, I passed the test. It was a conversation where I was asked many questions. I answered them truthfully and passed,' he wrote. He went on to state: 'Recently however, I have been told that I must do another test, due to my use of marijuana and how some people who smoke it have exhibited a problem.' Fans of the singer were upset for him, as he had seemingly done everything right, including having been married to American citizens and paying US taxes. Instead of relying on his current wife's citizenship, Neil took the hard route by taking the citizenship test. Neil told the Los Angeles Times he plans to remain a Canadian citizen and the loss of his home motivated him to take action. 'I live down here; I pay taxes down here; my beautiful family is all down here — they're all Americans, so I want to register my opinion,' he told the LA Times. 'We've got a climate emergency, and governments are not acting.'   
