USA
{ By Kevin Kayhart For Dailymail.com   Published:  08:14, 23 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7919659/Ariana-Grande-bumps-boys-BTS-rehearsals-Grammy-Awards-shares-photo.html }
Ariana Grande has been hard at work rehearsing for her upcoming performance at the 2020 Grammy Awards that's set to go off this Sunday. And on Wednesday the Thank U, Next singer had a brief reprieve and got to hang out with the guys from the hugely popular South Korean boy band BTS, which was documented with a photo Twitter. 'Look who I bumped into at rehearsal,' Grande captioned a back-and-white snap that was taken as they sat on the steps of a stage-riser. In the photo, Grande is dressed in sweatpants and her trademark top-ponytail as she sat in the middle of six of the seven members.  Jungkook, V, Jimin, RM, Jin and J-Hope can all be seen snuggling up with Grande in the group shot, but SUGA, a.k.a. Min Yoon-gi, was missing. The omission had some fans and followers crying foul, but then there were others who speculated that he may be one who was relegated to snapping the photo.    Grande is among the roster of headlining names at Sunday's Grammy's that also includes Billie Eilish, Lizzo, Aerosmith, Gwen Stefani and Blake Shelton and host Alicia Keys. BTS are reportedly going to share the stage with Lil Nas X for a rendition of his massive-hit song Old Town Road.  The Sweetener star, 26, took to Instagram last Saturday to break the news of her performance. 'see you jan 26 #GRAMMYs @cbstv @recordingacademy,' she captioned a photo of herself that also read 'GRAMMY PERFORMER.'  It could turn out to a busy night for Grande considering she's been nominated in five categories that includes Album Of The Year and Best Pop Vocal Album for Thank U, Next.  Lizzo received the most nominations of any artist with eight, followed by Eilish and Lil Nas X with six each.    Aerosmith is being honored as MusiCares Person of the Year for their philanthropic efforts over the course of their legendary five-decade career. The 62nd Annual Grammy Awards will be broadcast live on CBS from the Staples Center in Los Angeles on Sunday, January 26, at 8 p.m. ET/5 p.m. PT.    
