{ By Katie Weston For Mailonline   Published:  21:00, 22 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//news/article-7917831/Breeder-gave-American-Bulldogs-painful-clipped-ears-sold-celebrities-avoids-jail.html }
A dog breeder who cropped puppies' ears with razor blades before selling them for thousands of pounds to celebrity clients has admitted to animal cruelty charges. Simon Davis, 34, subjected American Bulldogs to painful cosmetic procedures before selling them on to high-profile customers, including Little Mix star Leigh-Ann Pinnock, from his kennels called Lions Lair. Magistrates heard the RSPCA and police carried out a joint raid at his home address in Bedworth, Warwickshire, on January 30 last year.  Warning: Graphic content They found seven kennels and runs in a converted garage building in his back garden containing eight American Bulldogs in total. One dog had a litter of 11 puppies, two of which were found to have been sold for £7,000.  An 'ear cropping kit' including razor blades was also seized from his house in the raid. Seven of the puppies he had bred and sold, for between £3,000 and £7,000 a time, had cropped ears - a procedure in which part of the ear is cut off with a knife or razor blade to make the dogs look fiercer. The cruel procedure, known as docking, is illegal in the UK under the Animal Welfare Act unless it is carried out for medical reasons. When the prospective owners questioned why the dogs were cropped - which they knew was illegal in the UK - Davis told them the animals had been flown in from America and justified their huge cost by claiming he had to pay shipping costs and importation taxes.  Coventry Magistrates' Court heard how one of the puppies, called Kyro, was bought by the Little Mix singer and her footballer boyfriend Andre Gray, who plays for Watford. Geordie Shore cast member Aaron Chalmers also purchased a dog from the same litter, called Lenny, from the kennels. Shocking photos found on Davis's phone by investigators show some of the puppies he bred as they were undergoing the procedure at the premises. Davis was prosecuted over seven specimen charges - but he had been breeding and selling the dogs for three years, meaning the true number of dogs to have been cropped by him could run into the hundreds.  Davis admitted seven offences under the Animal Welfare Act when he appeared at Nuneaton Magistrates' Court on December 17. Today he avoided jail after being given an 18-week prison sentence suspended for 12 months and ordered to carry out 160 hours of unpaid work. He was also banned from keeping animals for 15 years and ordered to pay more than £10,000 in costs  to the RSPCA, along with a £115 victim surcharge. JPs heard a further nine American Bulldogs were found at Davis's mother's address nearby, including two pregnant dogs, six of these also had cropped ears. Davis had sought to buy ear clamps which are attached to the ear and used as a stencil so the desired 'uniform shape' is created during the cutting process. He also wanted to buy a table to carry out operations on and messages on his phone showed seeking the services of a 'cropper' from the USA, to carry out the process. In addition photographs showing pups before and after cropping as well as items used in surgery such as syringes, razor blades and forceps were seized from both properties. Sara Pratt, prosecuting for the RSPCA, said: 'As a result of the publicity created by both Simon Davis and the kennel, alongside the celebrity purchasers, there have been numerous images of Lions Lair puppies in the media, including in the USA. The procedure dates back thousands of years and was originally performed on working dogs to prevent risk of ear infection and other potential health risks. Historically it has also been adopted by owners who breed the animal specifically for hunting and dog-fighting.   More recently the procedure has been adopted for cosmetic purposes and in countries where it remains legal is commonly applied as a breeding standard for dog shows.  The operation is usually carried out on pups between the ages of 7 to 12 weeks.  But it can cause great pain and increased pain memory if conducted on dogs over the age of 16 weeks. It is currently banned in all countries that consent to the European Convention for the Protection of Pet Animals.  It is, however, still practiced across the United States.  'There is no way of knowing what drugs were available during and after the operations carried out at Davis' kennels, or if the dogs or puppies operated on were given appropriate pain relief during and after the operations. 'It is also impossible to say whether any of the operations carried out had complications at any stage which would have caused further suffering to the dogs or puppies such as infection etc.'  Sentencing, chairman of the bench Davinder Athwal told Davis: ‘You receive this sentence because of the unnecessary suffering to animals and financial gains you have made. ‘This was a large scale commercial operation. You were clearly aware the operation you were running was illegal and accepted the risks associated with running an illegal operation contrary to the welfare of the animals.’ RSPCA inspector Herchy Boal said: 'The RSPCA is opposed to ear cropping - a process where ears are removed or surgically altered. It is painful, wholly unnecessary and often done only for the purposes of appearance. 'Dogs should never be mutilated for cosmetic purposes and ear cropping can actually be detrimental to their health, behaviour and welfare. 'We'd urge people never to buy a dog with cropped ears and to report any concerns about ear cropping to the RSPCA.' The RSCPA has now warned people not to be tempted to buy dogs which have had their ears cropped because they see celebrities buying them. The inspector added: 'Celebrities need to understand that people like to copy what they buy - and that goes for pets as well as handbags or coats. ‘It isn’t helpful for people to be putting images of pets like this on their social media.’ 
