USA
{ By Roxy Simons For Mailonline   Published:  13:28, 22 January 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-7915889/Coda-LOOK-Katie-Holmes-plays-Sir-Patrick-Stewarts-muse-romantic-drama.html }
Katie Holmes, 41, is set to star as 79-year-old Sir Patrick Stewart's muse in romantic drama Coda, in the film's first trailer which was released on Wednesday. Taking on the role of music critic Helen Morrison, Katie's character steps in to help Sir Patrick's Henry Cole with his late onset stage fright. The quiet trailer opens with Henry stepping up to a piano, which has had 'all the adjustments' made to make sure he would be 'pleased', but despite his initial delight the second he sat down the musician froze. But Helen is on hand to help him overcome his fear, as she asks the man to 'move over a little' so that she can sit beside him and play part of the tune. Making him immediately feel at ease, Henry smiles softly as he joins her in playing the keys and giving a rousing performance.  Showing the pair enjoying some quality time together, going on walks in the park, riding bikes, and spending time chatting, it becomes evident that the pair are growing close. As their friendship appears to progress, Henry invites Helen to come to a summer lunch party with friends, where she meets Giancarlo Esposito's Paul. Clearly seeing the positive impact Helen has on Henry, he tells her: 'I can't tell you how much it means to him for you to be here. 'After his wife died he barely spoke for two years let alone give recitals, he wouldn't go near the piano.' It seems that Helen's presence has worked its magic, as Henry is seen performing in front of a captivated crowd in the next scene. And in an intimate moment between the pair, Helen gently caresses Henry's face as she tells him to perform as she'll 'be listening.' In a quiet voice, Henry responds: 'I'll be playing for you.'  Coda is the directorial debut of Claude Lalonde, who is also making his English-language debut with the film. A release date is yet to be confirmed for Coda, but it is expected to be screened in the USA later this month.  
