{ By David Lawrance For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:29, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8026609/Emmy-Rossum-dead-ringer-Angelyne-set-TV-mini-series-LA-billboard-icon.html }
She's playing 80s LA-based model and urban legend Angelyne in a new TV mini series. And Emmy Rossum was the spitting image of the billboard icon on Thursday, when the Shameless alum was spotted in full costume on the set of her forthcoming Peacock mini-series. The 33-year-old was decked out in Angelyne's trademark head-to-toe pink for her scene, filmed on Sunset Boulevard in West Hollywood.  The native New Yorker had aged prosthetic makeup beneath her pink eye shadow and lipstick and heavy cats eye eyeliner. Rossum donned a pink mini-dress, along with a matching fluffy jacket and wedge heels.  Her normally brunette tresses were covered with a peroxide blonde wig for the scene, which took place next to Angelyne's famous hot pink Corvette. The forthcoming TV series was created by Emmy's husband Sam Esmail, the man behind USA Network's Mr. Robot. Angelyne, now 69, became a self-created pop culture icon in the 1980s after numerous billboards appeared around Los Angeles bearing her image and the name 'Angelyne'.  She claimed the billboards were funded by the inventor of Hugo's Amazing Tape, Hugo Maisnik. The singer and actress became known for her peroxide tresses and love of pink attire, eventually parlaying her notoriety into appearances in films like 1988's Earth Girls Are Easy and 2017's The Disaster Artist. In 2003, Angelyne ran for governor of California, finishing 28th out of 135 candidates.  Angelyne remained a mysterious figure, until her true identity was revealed in 2017. She was born in Poland in 1950, to parents who had both survived the Holocaust On Wednesday, Emmy announced that Angelyn-born Ronia (Renee) Tamar Goldberg- would be an executive producer on the series, via her Instagram account.   Emmy has proven a versatile actress over the years, after first gaining notice for her role as Katie Markum in the Clint Eastwood directed 2003 film Mystic River. She then made her name after starring as Fiona Gallagher in Shameless for nine seasons. Rossum left the hit Showtime comedy-drama series last year.  
