{ By Carly Johnson For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:22, 25 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8039801/Nicki-Minaj-fuels-pregnancy-rumors-cryptic-video-husband-Kenneth-Petty-rubbing-belly.html }
 Nicki Minaj may be expecting a child with husband Kenneth Petty. The initial speculation stems from a video shared by the 37-year-old rapper on Sunday that showed Petty, 41, affectionately rubbing on her stomach during a flight to Trinidad.  After the video was posted to Instagram, Minaj's comment section erupted with back-and-forth between fans over the probability of a potential pregnancy. In the video, Minaj, donning a brightly patterned bodycon dress, focused the camera directly on her stomach, as the couple lounged on their lavish private jet. Though the audio is muffled, Petty can be heard reciting: '...going to Trinidad with your dad.' Petty's hand, sporting a massive diamond ring, can be seen caressing the rapper's stomach affectionately before the camera shifts to Minaj's mug.  Nicki then aimed the camera toward her husband's face, where he could be seen flashing a cheeky expression. 'SIS WHAT ARE U TRYING TO TELL US,' exclaimed one fan in the comment section. 'Girl are u pregnant or not,' asked another. But the rapper kept her mouth shut, only returning to Instagram shortly after to announce her and Petty's arrival in Trinidad.   'Hello, Trinidad! We have arrived! We are here Trinidad!,' uttered Minaj before blowing a kiss to the cam.  Nicki, who is Trinidadian, is currently visiting the country for its annual Trinidad and Tobago Carnival, which lasts from Monday to Tuesday. The couple wed in October of 2019, after just a year of dating.   In September of 2019, Minaj announced on her Instagram page that she had 'decided to retire [and] have my family.'  But since the announcement, the rapper has remained contributing to projects and releasing music of her own. Just last week, Minaj landed herself back on the Billboard Hot 100 with her latest track Yikes.  She took back her retirement all together, due to backlash from fans that she received.  When Minaj began dating Petty in 2018, internet sleuths uncovered his shocking criminal past. The 41-year-old is a 'registered Level 2 sex offender,' as listed by the New York State's Sex Offender Registry.   Petty's offense was an 'attempted first degree rape' that took place in 1994 'when both he and the victim were 16,' according to USA Today.  He ended up serving 'just under four years in prison' and was a free man by January of 1999. In 2019, Nick defended her man on Instagram, when fans flooded her feed with disapproval over her silent acceptance of Petty's crimes. Minaj had this to say about the sexual assault charge: 'He was 15, she was 16... in a relationship. But go awf Internet.' In 2006, the husband of Nick Minaj would return behind bars for 'first-degree manslaughter' and would go on to serve seven-years in prison for the charge.  
