{ By Deirdre Simonds For Dailymail.com   Published:  22:10, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8026271/Tiffani-Thiessen-daughter-beam-holding-hands-fashion-Chicago.html }
Tiffani Thiessen and mini-me daughter Harper showed off their bond while strutting down the runway at the the 11th Annual Rookie USA Fashion Show in Chicago last week. As the mother/daughter duo took the catwalk together, the pair beamed in denim looks and matching black Converses while holding hands.  The 46-year-old Saved By The Bell alum appeared happy to let her nine-year-old steal the show, who went on for a solo stroll after their joint appearance.   Harper amplified the laid-back look, opting for a head-to-purple jumpsuit with coordinating sunglasses and matching barrettes.  The actress, who also shares four-year-old Holt Fisher with husband Brady Smith, donned a light-wash jean jacket, rolled dark denim pants and a white T-shirt.  The pair flaunted their striking resemble while sporting matching smiles and their long brown tresses in loose waves.  While the little girl has yet to hit double digits, this is not her first modeling gig.  In December 2015, before her brother was even born, she posed with her famous mom for Gymboree's Olivia line, according to People.  Later in the evening as her daughter found her stride, Thiessen sat in the audience to record every moment.  The proud mother didn't even change out of her runway look, while sitting in the front row with a massive smile.  While it's been almost three decades since she rose to fame as Saved by the Bell's Kelly Kapowski, the mother-of-two radiated youth and excitement while supporting her eldest.  Her acting career launched while starring on the sitcom in the late Eighties and early Nineties. Additionally, as a teen she also worked on the massive hit show Beverly Hills, 90210.  In September, a reboot for Saved By The Bell was announced with many returning cast alums, but didn't include her.  Despite Thiessen's popularity on the show, she was surprised to hear about the spin-off and told Us Weekly she 'didn't know anything about it.' 'It seems like everyone is doing a reboot, these days. It's, like, popular, I guess,' she told the outlet, before revealing she wouldn't have been into the idea.  The You're Missing It! author added: 'I'm a girl that likes the originals. But that's me, though. I'm nostalgic that way. But I'm sure people are going to be excited about it. It seems almost popular to redo a show.'  The actress also turned down any hope for a guest appearance on the 90210 spin-off, as she reminded fans out her busy schedule that includes Netflix original series Alexa & Katie.  
