USA
{ By Nicole Douglas For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  10:44, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8024087/Delta-Goodrem-hugs-Olivia-Newton-John-sweet-photo-Fire-Fight-Australia-concert.html }
She played Olivia Newton John in the TV mini-series, Hopeless Devoted To You, in 2018. And it seems the bond between Delta Goodrem and the Grease star is as strong as ever, as the former Neighbours actress shared a sweet picture of the pair reuniting earlier this week.  Believed to have been taken at the Fire Fight Australia concert in Sydney - where they both performed - Delta, 35, was seen holding Olivia in a tight embrace as she beamed widely beside her. The 71-year-old, who is currently living with stage four cancer, signed the sweet Polaroid snap with the words: 'Love you girl. Olivia.' Fans were quick to comment on the gorgeous image, with one writing: 'Wow!!! A treasure to keep forever! 2 amazing Australian women xoxo,' while a second gushed: 'Aww this is the sweetest! What a beautiful connection you both share.' The gorgeous duo have always been told they look alike - so much so, in fact, that Delta played the musical icon in Channel Seven's Olivia Newton-John: Hopelessly Devoted to You in 2018. Delta and Olivia's connection goes deeper than looks, as both women have battled cancer in their lifetimes. Delta battled Hodgkin's lymphoma in 2003 and has supported several cancer charities since then. Meanwhile, Olivia was first diagnosed with breast cancer in 1992. In 2017, she sadly announced she was again receiving treatment, as her cancer had returned and spread to her lower back. She is currently battling stage four cancer, but remains optimistic about her diagnosis. Speaking to Daily Mail Australia at G'Day USA in Los Angeles last month, she said: 'Life is a gift. I have an amazing life and I intend to keep going with it. 'I want to help [other] people with [the disease]. I want to see an end to cancer in my lifetime so other people don't have to suffer.' 
