USA
{ By Australian Associated Press   Published:  04:54, 20 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//wires/aap/article-8023427/Austal-ship-falls-victim-Trumps-wall.html }
Shipbuilder Austal's says its Alabama shipyard boosted the company to a great half-year but executives are disappointed funding for a $393 million troop transport ship has been diverted to build Donald Trump's wall. Since 2012 Austal USA has delivered 11 Expeditionary Fast Transports to the US Navy as part of three contracts worth a total of about $A3.2 billion for 14 of the 103-metre aluminium catamarans. "We were very pleased that EPF-15, the next vessel in the series, was appropriated in the congressional budget," Austal chief executive David Singleton told analysts on a conference call on Thursday. "We were less pleased when very recently, in the last week or so, that vessel was removed from the budget and the money was transferred to the president's budget for building the wall between the United States and Mexico. "And so we don't believe that vessel will be part of the 2020 budget and we'll of course be focusing on that in the 2021 budget." A total of US$3.8 billion ($A5.7 billion) earmarked for fighter jets, combat ships and National Guard equipment was diverted to Trump's border wall, including $US261 million in funding for another Expeditionary Fast Transport ship, Politico reported last week. Austal had not counted on the EPF-15 receiving congressional funding when making its earnings forecasts for the fiscal year, Mr Singleton said. Overall, though, Mr Singleton indicated he could not be happier with the performance with Austal's USA shipyard in Mobile, Alabama, which accounted for 77 per cent of Austal's $1.04 billion in revenue for the six months to December 31, and delivered a profit margin of 8.1 per cent. "Just outstanding and solid and continuous operational performance out of the US, a great credit to the management team there," Mr Singleton said. Austal's first-half net profit rose 72 per cent to $40.8 million. The company maintained its dividend at 3.0 cents per share. Austal said it had a $4.3 billion order book providing it with work through to 2023/24, with 41 vessels under construction or scheduled across Austal's seven shipyards in the US, Australia, the Philippines, Vietnam and China. The Perth-headquartered company remains one of four bidders for the US Navy's FFG(X) future frigate program, a massive contract to build 20 guided-missile frigates for well over $1 billion apiece. Austal shares closed on Thursday up 6.1 per cent to a three-month high $4.38. 
