{ By Cassie Carpenter For Dailymail.com   Published:  01:06, 19 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8018545/Bachelor-Paradise-couple-Dean-Unglert-Caelynn-Miller-Keyes-secret-commitment-ceremony.html }
Bachelor in Paradise couple Dean Unglert and Caelynn Miller-Keyes are closer than ever after taking part in a secret 'commitment ceremony' and even their friends 'aren't even sure if they're legally married.' E! News claimed 'something special' happened between the LA-based duo after Caelynn rushed to Dean's side in Switzerland when he was hospitalized December 23-28 with a dislocated hip and broken femur from a skiing accident. 'It really brought their relationship to a new level,' a source told the site on Tuesday.   'They're very happy and very serious and enjoy the speculation from fans. They are trying to really hype it up and troll fans.' The Cali-born 28-year-old's injuries didn't stop him from exploring Yosemite National Park over Valentine's Day weekend with the Virginia-born 24-year-old and their Wags and Walks foster pup, Pappy. Miller-Keyes has said that Unglert brings out her adventurous and intellectual sides whether skydiving, motorcycle-riding, or camping out in his van.  Since last month, the Miss USA 2018 runner-up has been vlogging their 'VANventures' for the viewing pleasure of her 27K YouTube subscribers.  After quitting BIP's sixth season last summer, the former StartupTAP recruitor famously returned to the Mexican set three weeks later to make a real commitment to the former social media consultant. It was Dean's second time competing on the ABC dating competiton after stints on The Bachelorette in 2017 (eliminated in week eight) and The Bachelor Winter Games in 2018 (runner-up). Caelynn was previously eliminated on the eighth week of the 23rd season of The Bachelor where speech pathologist Cassie Randolph wound up winning the heart of retired NFL tight end Colton Underwood. On Monday, Unglert - who boasts 1.6M social media followers - Insta-storied the moment he shaved off his signature mustache just like pop star Justin Bieber did on Sunday. 
