USA
{ By Claire Bloomfield For The Daily Mail   Published:  22:31, 18 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//sport/football/article-8017597/Phil-Neville-wont-run-risk-England-squad-against-USA.html }
Phil Neville insists he will not experiment with his team during their defence of the SheBelieves Cup next month over fears of being punished by rivals USA. The England manager, who branded some of his side's last six performances as 'unacceptable', admitted they are still some way from closing the gap on the two-time world champions. But that remains his ambition. Neville said: 'If we experiment against the USA we'll get beat. Millie Bright (Chelsea), Lucy Bronze (Lyon), Rachel Daly (Houston Dash), Toni Duggan (Atletico Madrid), Beth England (Chelsea), Grace Fisk (West Ham), Alex Greenwood (Lyon), Lauren Hemp (Manchester United), Steph Houghton (Manchester City), Chloe Kelly (Everton), Sandy MacIver (Everton), Abbie McManus (Manchester United), Jordan Nobbs (Arsenal), Nikita Parris (Lyon), Ellie Roebuck (Manchester City), Jill Scott (Manchester City), Lucy Staniforth (Birmingham), Georgia Stanway (Manchester City), Carly Telford (Chelsea), Demi Stokes (Manchester City), Keira Walsh (Manchester City), Ellen White (Manchester City), Leah Williamson (Arsenal) 'You've got to use every golf club in the bag and use all the ammunition you've got to beat these teams. 'We've got to go out there and deliver in a way which we probably haven't done for the last six games. 'Sometimes we need to take a reality check and accept we are not where we want to be in every facet. 'The games we have played against the USA have been our biggest tests but we want to overtake them. That's the aim.' Having consistently promised to give young players a chance, the 23-player squad Neville named on Tuesday sees West Ham defender Grace Fisk, 22, earn her first senior call-up, and in-form Everton striker Chloe Kelly, 22, who made one senior appearance in November 2018, also make the cut. Birmingham keeper Hannah Hampton, 19, and US-based striker Alessia Russo, 21, join as training players. 'I don't look at age,' added Neville. 'Whether you're over 30 or under 20, I look at the quality and what you can bring to the team. Until you give young players an opportunity you never know if they can step up.' England open their SheBelieves Cup campaign against Vlatko Andonovski's USA side in Orlando. 
