{ By Jessamy Tredinnick For Daily Mail Australia   Published:  23:21, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8014141/Michael-Clifford-confirms-wedding-date-revealing-5SOS-groomsmen.html }
He proposed to his model girlfriend, Crystal Leigh, in January 2019. And 5 Seconds Of Summer guitarist Michael Clifford, 24, is already counting down the days until his wedding.   Speaking to Nova 96.9's Fitzy and Wippa on Tuesday, the musician revealed the lovebirds have now set a date for their special day.   Appearing alongside his best man and band mate Calum Hood, Michael revealed his wedding date was set for January 2021.  'We're gonna do it early next year. Probably January,' Michael explained.   Bassist Calum will be joined by 5SOS' drummer Ashton Irwin and lead vocalist Luke Hemmings as Michael's groomsmen on the big day. 'I've asked all these guys to be my groomsmen,' Michael revealed at the G'Day USA gala in late January.  Lead singer Luke joked: 'The clock was running out. We were a bit worried. "When is he gonna ask us?"'  Michael went on to explain why he chose Calum, over the other guys, as his best man.  'We were talking about it for a long time and the only reason I picked Calum is I've known him the longest,' Michael explained.  The group performed at the Fire Fight Australia bushfire relief concert on Sunday.  And on Monday, 5 Seconds of Summer announced they'll be returning to the stage when they bring their their No Shame 2020 tour Down Under later in the year. Sharing the exciting news on his Twitter account, guitarist Michael Clifford wrote: 'Didn't forget about you Australia,' alongside the upcoming tour dates.  5 Seconds of Summer will kick off their tour on the Gold Coast on November 27, before playing Brisbane on November 28 then taking their show to Perth on November 30. The She Looks So Perfect hit-makers will then tour Newcastle, and Melbourne before concluding their tour in Sydney on December 5, playing at the Sydney Opera House forecourt. General release tickets for all six Australian shows will go on sale at 1pm (AEDT) on Friday, February 21 via LiveNation. 
