{ By Kellie Chudzinski For Dailymail.com   Published:  15:28, 17 February 2020   https://www.dailymail.co.uk//tvshowbiz/article-8012839/Harrison-Ford-shocked-JJ-Abrams-asked-return-Star-Wars-Rise-Skywalker.html }
He first took on the character of Han Solo in the original Star Wars in 1977.  And Harrison Ford made a triumphant return as the Captain of the Millennium Falcon in JJ Abrams' Star Wars: The Force Awaken.  Due to the characters untimely death in the 2015 film, the 77-year-old actor was surprised the director wanted to bring him back for the latest adaption Star Wars: The Rise of the Skywalker.  Ford told USA Today late last week that Abrams persuaded him to return yet again for the 2019 film.   'When JJ asked me to do it, I said, "Are you kidding? I'm dead,"' Ford said, though Abrams was sure there was a way. 'He said, "Sorta dead. You can do this."' The Indiana Jones star added: 'He hadn't written anything at that time. But he said, "This is going to be great." So I said okay.' 'If JJ asked you do something,' he said. 'You'd probably do it too. He's a very persuasive guy.' Ford's return the The Force Awakens came 32 years after his last reprisal of the role in 1983's Return of the Jedi.  His return played an important role in relation to the character of Kylo Ren, played by Adam Driver.  The Hollywood star now views his part in the movie as a 'useful addition' to the plot.  Discussing the role he said: 'It was a useful addition to the story and the continuing development of Adam Driver's character. And the chance to do another scene with Adam was great.' Meanwhile, Harrison is also poised to return to another of his most famous on-screen roles, having recently been confirmed for Indiana Jones 5 to start filming this summer. The veteran actor has starred as the titular archaeologist in all four of the franchise's movies, and after he insisted that nobody will ever be able to replace his alter ego, Lucasfilm's boss Kathleen Kennedy confirmed the screen legend is very much 'involved' in the project.  Giving an update on the movie's progress, she said: 'We're working away, getting the script where we want it to be and then we'll be ready to go. Harrison Ford will be involved, yeah. It's not a reboot; it's a continuation.' The last film in the franchise was 2008's Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, which was one of the highest grossing films of the year.  
