housing
{  
    April 29 2016 11:00 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/newrossstandard/news/housing-crisis-as-4102-on-wait-list-for-home-34658511.html }
A debate on the lack of social housing in the county was adjourned at the meeting, with a full session being set aside to discuss the matter. Senior Executive Housing Officer Liz Hore said the aim of the Wexford Social Housing Strategy 2020 is to ensure access by each household in County Wexford to affordable housing or accommodation of good quality, which is culturally acceptable. Ms Hore said: 'More than bricks and mortar it is about supporting sustainable communities and providing a quality of life.' As of April 2016 there are 4,012 people on the social housing list in the county. The social housing support need per district is calculated as 1,443 houses in the Wexford district, 1,012 houses in the Gorey district and 855 and 702 houses respectively in the Enniscorthy and New Ross municipal districts. Ms Hore said the greatest need is in Wexford town. Across the county there is a demand for 1,541 one bed houses, 1,129 two beds, 1,259 three beds, 79 four bedroom houses and four five bedroom homes. There are 52,534 households in County Wexford, 73.6 per cent of which are owner occupied. 34.6 per cent have a mortgage. 14.5 per cent are private rented houses. 9 per cent (4,728) are social houses.   County Wexford has the second highest number of holiday homes nationally, (6,915), or 10 per cent of total houses, accounting for one quarter of homes in the county's coastal areas. Wexford County Council has 4,234 rent accounts for its houses and there are 757 RAS houses in the county. €25.4m has been allocated to social housing supply in the county for the period 2015 to 2017. Wexford County Council has invested €3m and the total sum earmarked for investment to date is €23m. Among the projects being worked on and completed are Shanna Court in Wexford, Gorey, Riverchapel, Killeens, Cherryorchard, Clonard, Frances Street, Wexford, Ross Road, Enniscorthy and Oylegate.  Director of Services for Housing John Carley said construction will begin shortly on the Frances Street property. Tenders for eight houses at Cherryorchard will go out in June, while Wexford County Council plans to make progress on the special needs accommodation in Oylegate later this year. The nine houses in Gorey will be progressed next month, the meeting heard, while funding has been approved for ten houses at Killeens and between 26 and 30 houses in Clonard.  Chairman Tony Dempsey said: 'There is nothing as sensitive or as difficult that we deal with as housing. We are dealing with new social situations. Demand is exceeding the supply of money.' Cllr Malcolm Byrne said many people across the county find themselves in difficult circumstances.  'This is not a strategy. This is a work programme in situations where people don't have a roof over their head. This is not evidence based. In North Wexford we have the highest level of demand. The housing stock is not well distributed when Gorey only has 13.8 per cent. I wonder has there been any discussion with the planning department about the new Gorey Town Plan. There are 300 additional housing units required,' he said, adding that the planning and the housing departments need to talk together more.  'There is absolutely no evidence of this happening at management level. The reality is that there is no availability of private sector housing in Gorey.' He called for a strategy from Wexford County Council which looks and social and private housing for the coming decade. 'I don't believe that there is any strategy in place. In my view this is the biggest challenge our county is facing.' Cllr Michael Sheehan proposed a special meeting on housing which was unanimously supported. It was agreed that councillors would discuss issues from their respective areas at their municipal district meetings and that it would be discussed at the Housing SPC and again at a meeting in June. Cllr Ger Carthy said he initially proposed having a discussion on housing, calling on the 'paymasters' and housing officials to be in attendance at the meeting. New Ross Standard 
