housing
{ JACQUELINE KAVANAGH 
    April 03 2009 03:45 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/life/home-garden/homes/the-art-of-house-viewing-26525880.html }
Visiting houses for sale has long been one of our favourite hobbies. Jacqueline Kavanagh takes in the best on show in exclusive Dalkey and meets a new breed of weekend house viewer. We've all indulged in some strange hobbies over the years -- line dancers, bog snorkellers and beer mat collectors -- but there's one hobby that proved extraordinarily popular over the last decade, although very few of us were prepared to admit to enjoying it. I'm referring to the much-practised, but little-acknowledged sport of hobby house hunting. At the height of the property boom, carloads of curious folk happily spent their Saturday afternoons nosing around showhouses and properties open to the public. Such 'tyre-kickers', as they're known in the trade, went along to viewings with no intention of buying, but justified the pastime by claiming they were 'gauging the market'. Others saw it as a way of getting interior design tips, while some simply wanted to get a peek at what the houses in that new fancy housing estate up the road looked like. But, of course, the downturn changed all that, with many losing the appetite to walk around a half-built housing estate to view a showhouse that looked like a mix between a spaceship and their late granny's house. So it's fair to say that the number of property tourists has dwindled over the last year or so. But what has emerged is a new, leaner, more focused strain of hobby house hunter -- the bargain house hunter. They're characterised as hobby house hunters who've no real intention of buying but just 'HAVE' to view a property where the asking price has dropped. Picture the type that go along to the Brown Thomas sale just 'to see' the bargains. And never before has the market been so abundant with properties for the bargain browsers to nose around. So last Saturday I undertook a little hobby house hunting myself to gauge the level of interest out there from those just browsing or window shopping and, more importantly, from those who are actually in a position to buy. My first viewing was at 11.30am at the 204sqm, three-bedroom property at 17 Knocknacree Park, Dalkey, Co Dublin. The term 'sought-after location' is over-used, but in this case, it is appropriate. Reduced from €1,575,000 to €1,495,000, this family home really is in a fantastic spot. Nestled at the end of a private cul-de-sac and sitting on 0.5 acre, its large windows not only provide the house with plenty of light but also afford fabulous views out over Dublin Bay. The conservatory sits off the open-plan dining and drawing room, which offer access to the kitchen. The house also has a study and a garage that offer lots of potential. It was here I met a couple who've been viewing properties every weekend for the last three months -- in fact, they claimed they've seen so many houses they could set up their own estate agents. They were quick to point out they were anything but hobby house hunters, though they've certainly come across some over the past 12 weeks. "There was one retired couple that might as well have brought their flasks and sandwiches with them," laughed the lady house hunter, shy about giving her name. "And there was another couple in a house in Mount Merrion who definitely gave the impression they had nothing else to do but to go down and have a look at their neighbour's house." The key to this couple's search is value for money. "It's such a huge spend, and they're all still very expensive," she explained. Next I decided to go along to 22 Somerton Avenue, Rochestown Avenue in Dun Laoghaire -- a three-bedroom terraced house, reduced from €450,000 to €385,000. In need of updating, the 109sqm property again benefits from its convenient location, within easy reach of Dalkey and Dun Laoghaire. With a little TLC, this property could make a great family home. My 1pm viewing took me to Derreen, Barnhill Road in Dalkey, where there was a noticeable buzz of activity. The four-bedroom, 118sqm property, built in the late 1930s, has the added benefit of a wonderful 120ft-long garden. It's on the market for €950,000. As well as off-street parking, the property offers a sizeable workshop and storage shed. Again, despite the need for a little updating to the decor, it was no doubt the location and size of the property that was attracting the viewers. One lady at Derreen told me that she'd been house hunting for a year and admitted that in the past she'd indulged in a little hobby house hunting herself. "I think we went out looking initially because everything was so fabulous and new," she explained. "But now you're seeing a lot of executor sales and properties that are quite run down. People are now curious about value rather than what they are actually doing with houses. I think people are also trying to get a handle on the value of their own home as you can't find out what things sell for so easily anymore." Another lady told me in no uncertain terms that she had far better things to be doing on a Saturday afternoon than hobby house hunt. Like the other viewers, she was there as an active house hunter. I moved onto my 2pm viewing at Oakwood, 7 Ashurst, Military Road, in Killiney. Again, the address, within a cul-de-sac of just nine houses, is a location to be envied. No doubt this contributes to the €1,450,000 asking price. But there's no denying the 206sqm, five-bedroom, red-brick detached house is enticing. In mint condition throughout, the property boasts sitting, family, dining and breakfast rooms, all leading seamlessly into each other. Occupying a quarter of an acre, the garden is crammed with meticulously maintained plants and shrubbery. To finish off my day as a hobby house hunter, I was treated to a private viewing of Khyber Lodge, Nerano Road in Dalkey. And if I was to indulge in a little fantasy house shopping, I'd have to admit I'd be making a bid on this four-bedroom, three-reception room villa-style residence. Built around 1811 and on the market for €3,500,000, it's a deceptive property. First impressions from the road are that you're about to view a cottage -- far from it. Once through the front door you immediately get the feeling you're stepping into something different -- a 258sqm property dripping with character and style. The wide hallway receives additional light through the fan light window with original stained glass in the front door and the featured stained glass skylight over the stairwell. This floor boasts the impressive drawing, dining and family room -- all with Merbau wooden floors. The family and drawing rooms also benefit from the sash windows and shutters. But without a doubt, the heart of this home is the kitchen. Standing at 7.72 by 6.61 metres, the bespoke John Daly-designed walnut and painted solid wood kitchen features an island unit adorned with half a ton of granite. The appliances, including De Dietrich induction hob, oven and combination oven/microwave, Neff warming drawer, Insinkerator waste disposal unit and Miele dishwasher complement the quality the area exudes. The kitchen is incredibly bright, thanks in no small part to the two large bay windows and double doors that open out to a granite stairway, which leads down to the 140 ft garden. The end of the garden boasts an attractive summerhouse. The master bedroom is accessed up a stairway from the kitchen. Double doors lead from the bedroom onto the balcony, which offers views over Dalkey Bay. As expected, the en-suite is equally impressive with walk-in Hansgrohe rainforest power shower and Villeroy & Boch wash handbasin and B&W sound system with in-built amplification. The garden level houses the three remaining bedrooms. The main bathroom features a solid marble floor and solid marble part-tiled walls. There's also an acoustically shielded media room, boiler room, utility room and a wine cellar. The house also features a solar-powered water heating system and underfloor heating as well as an extensive intruder detection system. This is a property for the serious house hunter in search of a seriously stylish property. So, after a day of hobby house hunting, I got the distinct feeling that the majority of those viewing these days are far less inclined to be hunting interior design tips or checking out the neighbour's bathroom, and a lot more concerned with looking for houses at realistic prices. 
