housing
{ James Young 
    October 13 2003 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/why-the-secondhand-house-market-is-booming-25926156.html }
ONCE again, the Department of the Environment house price statistics bulletin shows what everyone looking for a house knows already, prices are still rising fast. But the latest statistics show a worrying trend, with average house prices for Dublin second hand  houses rising by over 23pc since the same quarter last year. While new house prices rose by only 14.5pc in Dublin for the year to June, second hand house prices are taking off everywhere, with 17.9pc recorded for second hand prices nationwide. These growth rates are reminiscent of the 1999/2000 time frame, when record house price increases were recorded. Why is this the case? The Department is indicating record house completions, expecting over 60,000 home completions this year, a record. If that is the case, then supply is increasing but second hand prices keep rising at levels last experienced in 1999 and 2000. And this trend is due to the delayed effects of interventions in the market from several years ago. What policy makers and other have failed to understand is that housing markets can, and should be, more fluid. With the 20pc social housing provision now in effect for most new developments in Dublin, first time buyers are willing to pay a bit more for a second-hand house in the knowledge that they are living in established areas where they know what the neighbourhood is like. With high stamp duties if they move to another house in a few years, first time buyers are more likely to pursue this second-hand option since the house that they buy is likely to be their home for a while. This has acted to shift demand from new houses to the second hand market. And more activity in the second-hand house market comes down to financial decisions about the costs of moving and changing houses. The argument goes something like this: You decided to purchase an apartment three years ago because you could not afford the house of your dreams. You are now getting married and want to find a house more suitable for raising children, and so forth. There are few large houses coming on to the new house market at the moment, since there is a preference to give planning permission to higher density developments and the 20pc social housing requirement means that people are less inclined to take a risk on their neighbours. So you look to the second-hand house market because there are fewer alternatives. You now discover that a ?400,000 will cost ?430,000 because of the ?30,000 stamp duty. With agents fees and other costs added, would have to come up with over ?36,000 to move to a modest family home, with the government taking the bulk of that money. This leads us to the crux of the problem, it costs too much to move and change houses. With stamp duty of 7.5pc on any house over ?381,000 and 9pc stamp duty if it is above ?635,000, it is also obvious that the biggest cost in moving is stamp duty. It has now become the case that if you want a family home within a reasonable commuting distance from Dublin (about and hour and a half), you are probably looking at the second-hand market, where supply is relatively limited. Supply is limited by the costs of moving (even when trading down) and the lack of new construction on houses suitable for trading up. Supply in the second-hand market comes from people's willingness to move. If you have to pay the Government about ?30,000 or more to trade up, are you more or less likely to move? Probably less likely. Therefore there is less supply in the second hand market. Equally worrying is that the distribution of house prices is changing as well. Prices are now beginning to group up at levels just below the stamp duty limits. That means that people are selling their house and people are willing to buy as long as the price is below ?635,000 the upper limit of stamp duty. Further it also means that people are less willing to purchase a house priced above ?381,000 because the stamp duty bill rises dramatically after this figure. That means it is almost impossible to find a second hand house suitable for a married couple with children in Dublin below ?300,000. As has been the case for a few years now, Government policy has been the cause of distortions in the housing market. Skyrocketing growth in the Dublin second-hand residential market is just another symptom of the unforeseen circumstances unleashed by interventions in the marketplace. By giving preference to first time buyers in smaller units, there is a severe shortage of supply in houses suitable for families. But the Government does not care about this problem. By having a penal percentage based tax, the Government benefits most from rising second hand house prices and forcing housing demand into new construction that is not suitable. James Young is an economist specialising in the European property market. 
