housing
{  
    December 09 2003 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/pitfall-of-high-house-prices-going-national-25917808.html }
CHANGES in the budget have ensured that next year will see double digit  growth in house prices again, especially in the secondhand market. The decentralisation of jobs outside of Dublin will do little to improve supply in the capital while it will place increased demand pressure on those areas where decentralisation is taking place. For example, Wexford town has about 4,000 housing units. Placing over 400 civil servants in the town will create a demand for approximately 400 more houses or an increase of 10pc in the total housing stock for the area. So demand will increase by over 10pc above local demand, or more than local builders or planners could handle. And what kind of houses would these civil servants be looking for? Probably the types of houses that planners do not want built, like those that are bigger and have a bit more land that the houses they moved from in Dublin. And God forbid these civil servants look to build one-off houses in the countryside; the planners have placed residency restrictions on this type of development so that only residents can build the types of houses that these civil servants would want, and could afford given the price differentials for Dublin. Here is the snag. Most of the housing demand in these communities will come from a sector of the market that is woefully undersupplied and that planners do not want built. No wonder there is resistance from some sectors of the civil service to decentralisation; their counterparts in the council planning offices will make it impossible to improve their living standard as a result of the move. Some analysts would see this scenario as a type of justice being served on the very civil servants who have given us these lame brained housing policies to begin with. Outside of creating a housing demand nightmare for areas outside of Dublin, the budget also failed to address another major issue that could have helped ease secondhand house prices; reducing stamp duty. As the stamp duty regime stands now, many are better off extending their homes or adding bedrooms etc - rather than trading up. Now you may say that this reduces demand for trade up houses, but the trade off is that the market for first time buyers who do not want to deal with the 'social and affordable' housing problem are forced to look in a sector of the secondhand market where people have a positive incentive not to move because of the high transfer fee. Also, there is no new construction in the high end of the market to offset the demand for larger homes due to planning preferences and the 'social and affordable' problem. Therefore, those who wanted to trade up are forced to look at the secondhand housing market and high transfer fees (stamp duty). So people cannot trade up because there are no large new houses being built and stamp duties will take up to 9pc up front by moving (for a ?650,000 house, that is ?58,500 in stamp duty.) Those who can afford these fees to trade up also have the money to push up prices; especially given that the limited future supply, their investment is a one-way bet upward. First time buyers are forced to buy ever smaller new units or pay more for a secondhand housing unit, plus stamp duties. With no fundamental changes in the financial situation of house hunters out there in regards to the budget or changes in policies, it looks likely that 2004 will produce another double-digit year for house prices. Except this time, decentralisation promises to share the burden of house price increases with the rest of the country. The latest news from the Department of the Environment (DoE) and Permanent TSB regarding house price increases during the third quarter of 2003 makes for depressing reading for house-hunters. The DoE recorded national secondhand house price increases of over 14pc over the third quarter in 2002. Permanent TSB declared similar results, with new house price increases of over 10pc recorded. Given that interest rates are low and job losses have been minimal in the context of global recession, it should not be surprising that house prices have continued to increase. What is surprising to some is that the increase is still in double digits. But this should not come as a surprise given the Government policies that shape the housing market and the inefficiency that has followed. Planners take forever to consider planning applications. Those wishing to trade up to larger homes have no choice but to go into the secondhand housing market because developers have quit building larger homes due to the 'social and affordable' housing provisions and policies geared toward smaller housing units in high density developments. Stamp duty remains very high within the context of our European neighbours, reducing supply in the second hand housing market (where supply is naturally limited) and forcing prices higher. All of these policies create and artificial shortage of properties during a period of high demand. Therefore, double digit house price increases over 2003 should surprise no one. James Young is an economist specialising in the European property market. 
