housing
{  
    March 07 2002 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/news/more-on-local-housing-list-than-ever-before-27113942.html }
And while the housing staff are exploring every option in a bid to ease the crisis Ellen OHanlon, the housing officer, has admitted that almost as soon as people are taken off the list and allocated accommodation there are others going onto it and filling their places. Sh And while the housing staff are exploring every option in a bid to ease the crisis Ellen O’Hanlon, the housing officer, has admitted that almost as soon as people are taken off the list and allocated accommodation there are others going onto it and filling their places. She disclosed that between 650 to 700 people are waiting for a council home and she agreed that the amount of time that some people have to wait for a house can be very frustrating. But she emphasised that the council’s housing list is operated on a priority basis – not on the basis of who happens to be top of the list. ‘You could be waiting four years or six months, it depends on the circumstances,’ she said. ‘For example, if you have an applicant living in adequate accommodation and paying rent not much different to that which would be paid to the council and then another applicant living in poor accommodation where maybe the ceiling in falling in, then we would allocate to the latter because that applicant would be most in need.’ It also depends though on the size of accommodation available at the time and which applicant it would most suit. The Housing Officer pointed out that while the Borough Council has maintained a yearly building programme, the numbers on the housing list are growing because of a number of other factors including the phenomenal rise in the price of private houses in recent years and also the high cost of rental accommodation. ‘We now have people on the housing list who previously would have been able to afford to buy a private home but, because of the escalating prices over the past number of years, have literally been priced out of the market,’ she said. ‘Young people are also leaving home much earlier than they did years ago while the increasing number of relationships breaking down is resulting in more lone parents. These are all contributory factors to the high housing list,’ she said. Asylum seekers, she added, are eligible to go onto the council housing list but only when they have been given official status by the Government. She describes the Housing Assessment Needs currently being carried out by the Borough Council as one of the most important surveys in years. ‘We hope to have this assessment completed by the end of March and it will be used to ascertain how many people in Drogheda are in need of housing including how many homeless people who require accommodation and how many travellers need serviced sites,’ she explained. ‘It will also tell us what our housing building programme must be, should it be two bedroom or three bedroom homes, for example. The Department of Environment in order to allocate us money has to know what our building programme needs to be.’ In the next 12 months the Borough Council hopes to reduce the list by a minimum of 157 due to different schemes including the following;  42 homes in phase 5 of St Laurence’s Park which are due to be allocated in June.  45 houses in phase 6 of St Laurence’s Park which should be ready for next March.  50 houses from the Respond housing development at Marley’s Lane which should be available during the course of the year as work is starting this month.  Approximately 20 houses from casual vacancies. On top of this, she added, the council is also looking at the possibility of buying up private houses, a new departure which worked very well during the year with the purchase of 10 houses in Willows Close and 8 in Hawthorn Close. ‘We are still considering suitable turn key developments like Hawthorn Close. We will always have our own building programme but some private developments like that particular one was suitable for us.’ Infill housing is also being looked at by the council staff. ‘Basically that’s where we have gaps in local authority housing estates that could accommodate another house. In those situations we work in conjunction with the residents and what they want.’ ‘We have a lot of initiatives and we have a very flexible County Manager who is anxious to improve the housing list for the entire county using Government guidelines.’ She urged those applicants who may be slightly better off than the average local authority tenant to consider the shared ownership and affordable housing options. Since last October all new residential developments in Drogheda have to include 20% for affordable housing. The Affordable Housing Scheme provides for the building of new houses in areas where house prices have created an affordability gap for lower income purchasers. The shared ownership system offers home ownership in a number of steps to those who cannot afford full ownership in one step the traditional way. Initially ownership of the house is shared between the owner and the local authority. Ellen is aware of the increasing number of homeless people in the area and is hopeful that the action plan for the county will go some way towards tackling this. The Borough Council provides B&B places for those seeking emergency accommodation but that’s only a short term solution, she emphasises. ‘As part of the county development action plan for homelessness we are considering the possibility of purchasing B&B’s for women and children who have to leave their homes because of violence,’ said Ellen who praised the work already being carried out by the Drogheda Women’s Refuge and the Drogheda Homeless Aid group. 
