housing
{  
    October 19 2000 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/corkman/news/housing-crisis-still-the-main-issue-at-estimates-meeting-27064248.html }
THE provision of more staff for housing maintenance and estate managementin the Northern Division of Cork County Council was welcomed by all mem However, the continuing housing crisis was on everyone's mind and theserious need to provide housing options for the vast numbers increasinglybeing pushed out of the private housing market was again stressed. In 2001 it is estimated that the Northern Division will spend a total of£1,911,628 on housing and building. This sum is further divided under anumber of headings in the 2001 estimates. £777,508 will be spent on local authority housing; with £570,738 formaintenance, repairs and improvements, £116,770 for rent and annuitycollection, £70,000 on estate management and £20,000 on miscellaneous costs. An estimated £281,000 will be spent on assistance to persons housingthemselves, with £11,000 for loan charges on supplementary grants, £250,000on loan charges on voluntary housing and a £20,000 contribution to voluntaryhousing groups. £65,300 is the estimated sum to spend under assistance to persons improvingtheir houses; with £6,000 on loan charges on loans, £59,100 on loan charges onsupplementary grants and £200 under miscellaneous costs. And finally administration and miscellaneous accounts for an estimatedexpenditure of £787,820; with £608,110 for direct administration andoverheads, £111,810 for central management charges, £25,900 for itinerantrehabilitation and £42,000 under miscellaneous costs. Outlining the figures and programmes Assistant County Manager TheresaWhite told the meeting that additional staff will be recruited in theCharleville and Mallow area for housing maintenance. In addition, an estate management staff unit will be set up in 20001 toestablish closer contacts with the residents of estates and promotetraining, arrange for environmental improvements and encourage active tenantparticipation. Ms White confirmed that the division's housing landbank has beensubstantially increased in recent months to a total of 98 acres, withcontinuing negotiations to acquire further land for housing. A planning process for affordable housing schemes in Kanturk (22 houses),and in Mallow (26 houses), has been started. From January 1 to August 31 last35 new houses were completed, 65 are now under construction and 72 areexpected to commence before the end of the year. In the current year, 82 applications have been received for the SharedOwnership Scheme and just one application for mortgage allowance. Under theImprovement Works In-Lieu Scheme work has commenced on 18 houses, 11 havebeen completed, 21 are currently in progress and eight further applicationshave been approved. Since June 15 2000 the maximum housing loan has increased to £100,000making the scheme more widely available and 24 applications have beenreceived in the current year. Twenty-seven Serviced Sites have been developed in Fermoy and 13 inNewmarket, witheight sites to be developed shortly in Doneraile. Voluntary housing schemesin Kildorrery, Kanturk and Conna are at the planning stage; in progress inBallydesmond, Charleville, Mallow and Kilworth and completed in Dromina,Newtown and Kiskeam. Councillor Joe Sherlock welcomed the personnel in housing maintenance andall of the developments in relation to estate management, noting: ``a tenantof a local authority has more security by far than some of the people takingout very substantial loans from financial institutions.'' The current demand for housing was raised by Councillor Aileen Pyne whoreferred to a housing assessment report from a year and a half ago in whichit was determined that Fermoy needed 164 houses, Kanturk 48 and Mallow 105;with an overall gross need of 934 and net of 522 houses in the NorthernDivision. Describing the situation in Fermoy alone as `dire', Councillor Pynereferred to what she called `the new poor', single income households onjust over £25,000, which makes them ineligible for council schemes butunable to afford private housing. Councillor Frank O'Flynn welcomed the increase in the divisional landbank,and urged management to continue to acquire as much land as possible in theNorthern area, with, in particular, more private sites. Councillor Patrick Buckley referred to concern over delays in the sharedownership scheme, but pointed out that these are not necessarily the faultof the county solicitors, and private solicitors representing prospectiveparticipants in the scheme are largely to blame for the delays. Councillor Dan Joe Fitzgerald also welcomed the increase in staff inestate management and housing maintenance and noted: ``it will not workwithout the co-operation of the people themselves.'' Housing was described by Deputy Paul Bradford as ``the most importantindividual programme in the division''. But, he noted: ``for various reasonswe have our biggest housing crisis in the region and everybody must playtheir part in solving it, including the local authority.'' He urged management to continue with their efforts for the provision ofland for housing in small villages, and highlighted the apparently hugeamount of red tape associated with the Improvements In-Lieu Scheme. Ms Whiteundertook to investigate. Councillor Gerard Murphy told the meeting: ``the baseline all the time issites and the provision of sites, whether through shared ownership orhousing loans.'' He added: ``unfortunately the price of land is so outrageous that theprovision of private sites is almost impossible.'' And he suggested: ``we mustlook in the upcoming County Development Plan to looking at a new type ofzoning especially for private sites only.'' Councillor Murphy also highlighted an issue in the Tenant Purchase Scheme,where people who have had houses for 20 plus years, who are aged between 55and 60 years, cannot afford to buy their council houses because of the priceof housing at the moment. He suggested in this instance that the Department be requested to make anadjustment to allow a discount for each year that a person has been payingrent and looking after their house.  By Trish O'Dea 
