housing
{  
    March 24 2000 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/droghedaindependent/localnotes/planning-permission-decisions-in-louth-27122004.html }
Oathill Properties have been granted planning permission by Louth County Council for 12 townhouses and 48 apartments at Annagassan. Permission was refused to David King for a dwellinghouse at Summerhill, Louth, and to James King for a dwellinghouse and waste water treatment unit at School Lane, Collon. Colm Dunne was granted permission for a house at Wyanstown, Togher; Shane Skelly was granted permission for a house at Smarmore, Ardee, as was N Duff for a house and garage at Dardisrath, Termonfeckin, and Linda Darby and Tommy Grogan were granted permission for a house at Boycetown, Togher. Permission was granted to Siobhan Reilly for a house at Ganderpark, Termonfeckin; to U Byrne for a house at Martinstown Togher and to Seamus O’Reilly for alternations and extension to a house at Brownstown, Monasterboice. Sean and Lorraine Fitzpatrick were granted permission for chance of house type with a klargester biodisc system and garage at Rathgory, Dunleer, and Sean Boyle & Sons were granted permission for retention of alternations to premises and for change of use of same from office to retail. Permission was granted to Martin Bohill for a house at Carstown, Termonfeckin; to Gerry and Nora Molloy for a house at Glebe, Grangebellew; Turlough McDonald, for four light industrial units at John St., Ardee. Stephen Howell was granted permission for a house and garage at Stonehouse, Dunleer, as was Peter Sands for a house at Dromin, Dunleer, and John Macken for a house at Maiden’s Cross, Prieststown, Monasterboice. Permission was granted to Elizabeth Reilly for a house at Gudderstown, Ardee; to Stephen White for extension and alternations to a house at Seapoint, Castlebellingham; to Mr. and Mrs. Connolly for an extension and alternations to a house at Baltray; and to Anna-Marie Collier and Desmond Dyas for a house at Dales, Clogherhead. Co Louth Golf Club was granted permission for a Bord na Mona puraflo effluent treatment system and alternations and extension to existing machinery shed, together with new car parking layout at Baltray. Permission was granted to John Matthews, for a house at Commons, Ballymakenny, Drogheda; to Eamon Clerkin, for a house at Mansfieldstown; to Peter and Ann Maher for a house, puraflo treatment system/septic tank and vehicular road entrance at Hitchestown, Grangebellew; and to Terry Matthews for two houses at Stabannon. Helen McCabe was refused permission for a house at Priest’s Hill, Collon, while Ann Rath was granted permission for a dwelling house at Crooked Street, Clogherhead. Permission was granted to Tony Kane for two industrial units and associated car-parking at John St., Ardee, and Pinewood Construction Ltd was granted permission for four two storey detached dwellings at Tinure. Tony Finn and P Taaffe were granted permission for two dwelling houses with garages at Drakestown, Ardee; Michael Carraher was granted permission for a dwellinghouse at Cookstown; Tom Eustace, was granted permission for a house at Garrolagh, Clogherhead and Paul and Jacqueline Lynch were granted permission for a house and garage at Millockstown, Ardee. Permission was granted to Kieran Maher to alter front elevations, install new entrance doors and auxiliary signage to premises at corner of Ardee Rd and Main St., Dunleer and Maria O’Connor was granted permission to demolish and existing house and construct two houses at Drogheda Rd, Ardee. Thomas Clarke was refused permission for a house, septic tank and percolation area at Balgathern, Drogheda while Brian Brodigan was refused permission for a house with sewerage treatment plant at Killineer. Permission was granted to Peter Farrelly and Joan McDonnell for a house at Castlelumney, Dunleer; to Peter Duffy for a house at Arthurstown, Ardee; to Stephen and Deirdre Tuite, for a two storey extension and attic conversion with two dormer windows at Drybridge, Drogheda; and to Declan and Eleanor Brannigan for alternation and extension to existing dwellinghouse at Ballydonnell, Baltray Rd, Termonfeckin. The ESB was granted permission for alternation of the existing Drybridge-Termonfeckin Rd 38kv line at Drybridge, Drogheda, and Lakeland Dairies Co-Op Society were granted permission for an extension/enclosure of vehicle loading facilities and modification of production facilities at Station Rd, Castlebellingham. Kevin Commins was granted permission for a kitchen extension at Townparks, Ardee; Allen White was granted permission to reconstruct a dwelling, including extension and construction of entrance porch at Dunany, while Tom and Miriam Muldoon were granted permission to convert a garage to residential use and for an extension, dormer windows and carport at Currabeg, Ardee. Permission was granted to M Winters for a puraflo waste water treatment system at Laurence’s Park, The Twenties, Drogheda; to H McGrane, for a house at Baggotstown, Grangebellew; and to Pat King for a house at Whitecross, Louth. 
