housing
{  
    August 25 2001 11:11 PM
 https://www.independent.ie/opinion/analysis/negative-equity-isnt-coming-to-a-house-near-you-26250401.html }
It will take a much bigger shock to the Irish economy than  the recent job losses in the IT sector to cause a state of  negative equity in the country's housing market, says James Young. IN THE drawingrooms of Dublin's leafy suburbs, the talk of house prices has suddenly become hushed with talk of tumbling sales and 'negative equity'. After years of watching with amazement as prices went through the roof, there is now anecdotal evidence of a dramatic slow-down in the housing market. The For Sale signs are hanging around longer, the list of withdrawls has been growing, the mortgage money is tightening up and there is clearly a belief that the boom is over. Now Fiona Adkins of Hibernian Investments has issued the first analysis of the housing market which states that negative equity could become a problem within the next two to three years if information technology (IT) companies continue to close their Irish operations. She estimates that house price could fall by upwards of 10 per cent over the next two years and that this would represent a modest 'correction' in house prices considering their rapid rise in the past five years. But is she correct that negative equity could become a problem? In short, no. The first reason can be found in her analysis. Let us assume that you have just purchased a home for the first time. You borrowed 90 per cent of the value of the house last year (the last time that I can recall seeing this type of mortgage being available) and since that time the value of your house has increased by five per cent. Ms Adkins would have you believe that if the price goes down 10 per cent from present levels (which is 5 per cent higher than your purchase price), there is the possibility that you would owe more on your house than it is worth. But clearly that is not the case. If you subtract 10 per cent from the present value, the real drop for the householder in the purchase price is only 5 per cent. They are still in a positive equity position of 5 per cent. A second, and more important, reason that her analysis is far from complete is that it ignores the alternative to home ownership. That alternative is renting. At present, rents are typically 25 per cent higher than mortgage repayments on the same type of house thanks to the changes in taxation policy. Ms Adkins would have you believe that people with negative equity will sell. Given that if 90 per cent mortgages were available (most likely to first-time buyers) and that these people are suffering from negative equity and the like, are they likely to pay more per month in rent just to get out of their mortgage? No. Why should they sell in the first place? Holding on to a house that you cannot afford is still cheaper than the rental alternative. She points to present conditions of house-price declines in the upper end of the market and increased marketing times for houses. Sure, these are signs that the second-hand property market is slowing down. As for new houses, she points to the uncommon occurrence of prices being reduced for new houses in the country and even Dublin. While her reasoning on second-hand housing is relatively clear, she ignores some basic factors in the new house market that have led to slower sales the inclusion of 'social and affordable' housing in estates. Say you are about to buy a home. You reasonably ask the sales agent what is going into the large plot of land across the street from the house of your dreams. He tells you social and affordable housing is going there. You ask what type of housing it is likely to be. The agent tells you that he does not know. Are you now willing to pay the same price for that house while risking that a tower block will be placed across the street? One would hardly think so. The obvious market for these houses would then be investors. But wait a minute, residential investors have been taxed out of existence. So is the real reason that new house prices are being reduced the inclusion of 'social and affordable' housing or is it that jobs are being lost? Ms Adkins does not address this question. However, the job losses so far in Ireland have been relatively (and historically) small. If people are holding on to their homes because they cannot afford renting (the alternative), how can prices go down significantly enough to create negative equity? You need transactions to properly gauge house prices. If people are 'staying put,' the transaction levels in the second-hand market should be going down rather than going up. If there is the case that people in certain sectors of the market are over extended (leading to the increase in transactions), they will be trading down to smaller and less expensive houses, pushing prices up in the lower end of the market. Neither of these scenarios points to negative equity, they simply point to a stabilisation in certain sectors of the housing market. So is negative equity on the horizon? Clearly not. Looking at historical data on house prices where large economic shocks have hit in Ireland, such as the currency crisis in the early 1990s and the economic basket case that the country was in the 1980s, provide some answers. House prices in the past 20 years have only gone down temporarily (for less than six months) and usually remained flat, with no price growth or decline whatsoever when economic shocks hit. The predicted fall of the IT sector and the predicted demise of jobs are nowhere near the levels of previous economic crashes even in Ireland. For negative equity to rear its ugly head, things will have to be much worse than Ms Adkins would dare predict for the economy. Unlike the UK in the 1980s, there is no large oversupply of housing available in the Irish market. Unlike the UK in the 1980s and most other property market crashes in the past 20 years in other places, there are no cheaper alternatives for housing available. Negative equity on the horizon? I don't think so. * James Young is managing director of Property Research International, an independent property research firm. 
