housing
{  
    January 07 2004 12:11 AM
 https://www.independent.ie/regionals/sligochampion/news/nazareth-house-plan-whats-in-store-under-unique-partnership-deal-27532947.html }
A unique partnership agreement between the North Western Health Board and the Sisters of Nazareth in Sligo will see the provision of modern, accessible and integrated services for elderly people on the site owned by the Sisters at Church Hill in Sligo. The radical plan, which has been approved by the Health Board members, includes the construction of a social housing scheme, construction of a 50-bed residential care centre and day services centre, the use of the main Nazareth House building for local health and social services, development of leisure gardens for residents and the local community on a 5 acare field adjacent to the site, and the provision of a new residence for the Sisters of Nazareth. The services are to be delivered by a new management company, Nazareth House Management Ltd., which comprises representatives appointed by the Sisters of Nazareth and Health Board management representatives. On completion of the Development Control Plan, there will be a comprehensive schedule of modern accommodation and facilities provided for older persons on the Nazareth House site, all of which will be in line with the philosophy of the Board’s "Choice" Programme of providing services in "home from home" like accommodation. There will also be a substantially improved range and quality of services available on site and in support of home care. The Plan also provides for the vacation of the main building in due course, which will then be available to the Board for the development of primary health care, community health care, and social care for the people of the West Ward of Sligo town.  History The first five Sisters of Nazareth came to Sligo from the Order’s main house in London on the 13th June 1910, to a house called Merville. The original Merville House is the old building on the south side of the present Nazareth House and is still in use. Building of the first Nazareth House began in 1915, took place in two stages, and was completed in 1952. Child care was the principal work of the Sisters for many years and this work ceased in 1992. From the late 1950’s / early 1960’s services to older people commenced and the house is now given over entirely for this purpose. At present there are 135 older persons in residence. When Nazareth House opened there was no state aid and no assured income from any source. The people of Sligo and surrounding areas always helped and supported the Sisters in their work. Today the upkeep of the house depends on the contributions from private patients and the health board and donations from benefactors. In 1977 the first contribution was received from the North Western Health Board towards the cost of 80 residential places. This has been increased gradually each year and in recent years Nazareth House has depended on the North Western Health Board for its main income through grant assistance.  Development In a detailed report on the proposed development to a meeting of the North Western Health Board, Assistant Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Tom Kelly, explained that in discussions with the North Western Health Board during the years 2000/2001, the Sisters of Nazareth indicated that, due to increasing costs and reducing number of sisters, it was no longer possible for them to maintain existing services in Sligo. However, they also indicated that they wished to ensure the resources of Nazareth House, Sligo would continue to be used for services for older people and for the wider health and social needs of the local community. Following a series of meetings the Health Board agreed to provide a substantial increase in resources to maintain and improve existing services in Nazareth House. It was also agreed that the Sisters of Nazareth and the North Western Health Board would work together in a partnership arrangement to develop the services for older people and the wider health and social needs of the local community in Sligo. The establishment and registration of a company called Nazareth House Management Ltd. gave effect to the agreement. Four directors of the company are nominees of the Sisters of Nazareth and four directors are nominees of the management of the North Western Health Board, Mr. Kelly explained. The main objectives for which the Company was established are: (a): To manage and provide all services and facilities required for a nursing, and/or residential and convalescent home. (b): To provide caring and welfare services for older persons and persons with disabilities (c): To engage in the provision of primary care health services. The memorandum of association for the Company also provides a range of other actions that may be taken in support of the main objectives.  Control Plan Following its establishment, Nazareth House Management Ltd. carried out a comprehensive review of existing services and consulted widely to identify the wider health and social needs of the local community. Planning consultants were engaged to survey the buildings and adjoining land and to propose a Development Control Plan for the property, which would accommodate all the service needs identified. The survey and appraisal of the main house showed that its refurbishment and reconfiguration would not provide an efficient or economical solution to establishing accommodation for care of older people to modern standards. Nazareth House Management Ltd carried out a detailed analysis of the various proposals put forward by the planning consultants and decided to adopt a Development Control Plan that contained the following main proposals:  Creation of a voluntary housing body to build and generate funding for 60 – 80 assisted housing units, with supporting communal facilities, on the land east of the main building  Building of a 50-bed residential care centre and day services centre to modern standards, on the land east of the main building  The main house, when vacated, would then be available, to allow development for local health and social services such as primary care, community care, training etc.  Reconstruction and refurbishment of Merville House to provide a private residence for the Sisters of Nazareth  Development of a 5-acre field on the northern side of the main house to provide leisure gardens for the residents and the local community Nazareth Housing Association (Sligo) Ltd. has been approved and is planning to build 60-80 assisted living units  Final number of units to be agreed with the Local Housing Authority  Land to be purchased from the Sisters of Nazareth  Approval and funding for site purchase and building the accommodation will be sought from the Department of the Environment  Each resident within the assisted living units will have an individual care plan and will pay a service charge to Nazareth House Management Ltd. for the services provided. As part of the annual Service Planning process, the Board will subsidise the cost of the services for eligible residents through a formal Service Level Agreement  Nazareth House Management Ltd. will have a Home Care Team to provide the services needed by each resident and for other older people living at home in the neighbourhood who may be in need of home support. This will be similarly supported by the Board through a formal Service Level Agreement.  Centre Nazareth House Management Ltd. will build a 50-bed residential care centre and a day services centre on behalf of the Sisters of Nazareth Capital funding for the centre will be provided by the Sisters of Nazareth.  The Sisters of Nazareth will own the building and will lease it to Nazareth House Management Ltd. for the delivery of services.  Funding for the running costs of the nursing home, day care, and homecare will be provided through formal Service Level Agreement with the Board similar to the current arrangement – this multi annual agreement will be entered into initially for a period of 10 years.  The provision of a leisure garden for the residents and the local community, in the 5-acre field situated north of the main building is also proposed.  Agreement will be reached with both the Local Authority and local charitable organisations in the community sector in relation to the planning, design, development and maintenance of the gardens. The existing main building will be made available, when vacated, for adaptation and development of primary health care, community health care, and social care services for the people of Sligo  The Sisters of Nazareth will make the vacated main building available to the Board on completion of the new buildings, and the Board will be entitled to utilise the space within the building as soon as it becomes vacant during the phased implementation of the proposed developments.  The NWHB will carry out all the adaptation works that will be needed for the services that will be accommodated in the building. Reconstruction and refurbishment of Merville House as residence for Sisters is another major part of the plan. Capital funding will be provided by the Sisters of Nazareth Work will start in March/April 2004 – and is due for completion in early 2005 Mr. Kelly acknowledged the contribution of the Sisters of Nazareth in Sligo (and also in Fahan in County Donegal) to the delivery of essential public health and social care services in the north west region for almost 100 years. "It is a testimony to their dedication that the Sisters remain committed to those that they have served so well and are active participants in the innovative partnership arrangement that has developed with the Board, particularly in recent years. The Sisters and the Board wish to develop modern, high quality services on this important site in Sligo, fully integrated with services for the local community. The Development Control Plan and management arrangements as proposed in this report will enable this to happen", Mr. Kelly added. 
